Transcriber's Note:                                       |
    |                                                           |
    | Inconsistent hyphenation in the original document has     |
    | been preserved.     |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME LIFE IN GERMANY

BY MRS. ALFRED SIDGWICK

The Chautauqua Press CHAUTAUQUA, NEW YORK MCMXII

First Published May 1908 Second Edition June 1908 Third Edition 1912

CONTENTS

CHAP.                                                        PAGE

    I. INTRODUCTORY                                             1

   II. CHILDREN                                                 7

  III. SCHOOLS                                                 15

   IV. THE EDUCATION OF THE POOR                               28

    V. THE BACKFISCH                                           36

   VI. THE STUDENT                                             47

  VII. RIEHL ON WOMEN                                          59

 VIII. THE OLD AND THE NEW                                     68

   IX. GIRLHOOD                                                78

    X. MARRIAGES                                               92

   XI. THE HOUSEHOLDER                                        103

  XII. HOUSEWIVES                                             113

 XIII. HOUSEWIVES (continued)                               123

  XIV. SERVANTS                                               138

   XV. FOOD                                                   153

  XVI. SHOPS AND MARKETS                                      167

 XVII. EXPENSES OF LIFE                                       177

XVIII. HOSPITALITY                                            196

  XIX. GERMAN SUNDAYS                                         205

   XX. SPORTS AND GAMES                                       217

  XXI. INNS AND RESTAURANTS                                   225

 XXII. LIFE IN LODGINGS                                       237

XXIII. SUMMER RESORTS                                         250

 XXIV. PEASANT LIFE                                           267

  XXV. HOW THE POOR LIVE                                      286

 XXVI. BERLIN                                                 297

XXVII. ODDS AND ENDS                                          307

Translations of foreign words and phrases in this book will be found in the Appendix at the
back of the volume.

HOME LIFE IN GERMANY

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

I was once greatly impressed by a story of an officer in the German army, who told his English
hostess that he knew the position of every blacksmith's forge in Yorkshire. I wondered at the
time how many officers in the English army had learned where to find the blacksmiths' forges
in Pomerania. But those are bygone days. Most of us know more about Germany now than we do
about our own country.[1] We go over there singly and in batches, we see their admirable public
institutions, we visit their factories, we examine their Poor Laws, we walk their hospitals,
we look on at their drill and their manoeuvres, we follow each twist and turn of their politics,
we watch their birth-rate, we write reams about their navy, and we can explain to any one according
to our bias exactly what their system of Protection does for them. We are often sufficiently
ignorant to compare them with the Japanese, and about once a month we publish a weighty book
concerning various aspects of their flourishing empire.

Some of these books I have read with ardent and respectful interest; and always as I read,
my own little venture seemed to wither and vanish in the light of a profounder knowledge and
a wider judgment than I shall ever attain. For I have not visited workhouses and factories,
I know little more about German taxes than about English ones, and I have no statistics for
the instruction and entertainment of the intelligent reader. I can take him inside a German
home, but I can give him no information about German building laws. I know how German women
spend their days, but I know as little about the exact function of a Bürgermeister as about
the functions of a Mayor. In short, my knowledge of Germany, like my knowledge of England,
is based on a series of life-long, unclassified, more or less inchoate impressions, and the
only excuse I have for writing about either country I find in my own and some other people's
trivial minds.

When I read of a country unknown or only slightly known, I like to be told all the insignificant
trifles that make the common round of life. It is assuredly desirable that the great movements
should be watched and described for us; but we want pictures of the people in their homes,
pictures of them at rest and at play, as well as engaged in those public works that make their
public history. For no reason in the world I happen to be interested in China, but I am still
waiting for just the gossip I want about private life there. We have Pierre Loti's exquisite
dream pictures of his deserted palace at Pekin, and we have many useful and expert accounts
of the roads, mines, railways, factories, laws, politics, and creeds of the Celestial Empire.
But the book I ask for could not be written by anyone who was not of Chinese birth, and it
would probably be written by a woman. It might not have much literary form or value, but it
would enter into those minutiæ of life that the masculine traveller either does not see or
does not think worth notice. The author of such a small-beer chronicle must have been intimate
from childhood with the Chinese point of view, though her home and her friends were in a foreign
land. She would probably not know much about her ancestral laws and politics, but she would
have known ever since she could hear and speak just what Chinese people said to each other
when none but Chinese were by, what they ate, what they wore, how they governed their homes,
the relationship between husband and wife, parents and children, master and servant; in what
way they fought the battle of life, how they feasted and how they mourned. If circumstances
took her over and over again to different parts of China for long stretches of time, she would
add to her traditions and her early atmosphere some experience of her race on their own soil
and under their own sun. What she could tell us would be of such small importance that she
would often hesitate to set it down; and again, she would hesitate lest what she had to say
should be well known already to those amongst her readers who had sojourned in her father's
country. She would do well, I think, to make some picture for herself of the audience she could
hope to entertain, and to fix her mind on these people while she wrote her book. She would
know that in the country of her adoption there were some who never crossed their own seas,
and others who travelled here and there in the world but did not visit China or know much about
its people. She would write for the ignorant ones, and not for any others; and she would of
necessity leave aside all great issues and all vexed questions. Her picture would be chiefly,
too, a picture of the nation's women; for though they have on the whole no share in political
history, they reckon with the men in any history of domestic life and habit.

Germans often maintain that their country is more diverse than any other, and on that account
more difficult to describe: a country of many races and various rules held loosely together
by language and more tightly of late years by the bond of empire. But the truth probably is,
that in our country we see and understand varieties, while in a foreign one we chiefly perceive
what is unlike ourselves and common to the people we are observing. For from the flux and welter
of qualities that form a modern nation certain traits survive peculiar to that nation: specialities
of feature, character, and habit, some seen at first sight, others only discovered after long
and intimate acquaintance. It is undoubtedly true that no one person can be at home in every
corner of the German Empire, or of any other empire.

There are many Germanys. The one we hear most of in England nowadays is armed to the teeth,
set wholly on material advancement, in a dangerously warlike mood, hustling us without scruple
from our place in the world's markets, a model of municipal government and enterprise, a land
where vice, poverty, idleness, and dirt are all unknown. We hear so much of this praiseworthy
but most unamiable Wunderkind amongst nations, that we generally forget the Germany we know,
the Germany still there for our affection and delight, the dear country of quaint fancies,
of music and of poetry. That Germany has vanished, the wiseacres say, the dreamy unworldly
German is no more with us, it is sheer sentimental folly to believe in him and to waste your
time looking for him. But how if you know him everywhere, in the music and poetry that he could
not have given us if they had not burned within him, and in the men and women who have accompanied
you as friends throughout life,--how if you still find him whenever you go to Germany? Not,
to be sure, in the shape of the wholly unpractical fool who preceded the modern English myth;
but, for instance, in some of the mystical plays that hold his stage, in many of his toys and
pictures, and above all in the kindly, lovable, clever people it is your pleasure to meet there.
You may perhaps speak with all the more conviction of this attractive Germany if you have never
shut your eyes and ears to the Germany that does not love us, and if you have often been vexed
and offended by the Anglophobia that undoubtedly exists. This Germany makes more noise than
the friendly element, and it is called into existence by a variety of causes not all important
or political. It flourished long before the Transvaal War was seized as a convenient stick
to beat us with. In some measure the Anglicised Germans who love us too well are responsible,
for they do not always love wisely. They deny their descent and their country, and that justly
offends their compatriots. I do not believe that the Englishman breathes who would ever wish
to call himself anything but English; while it is quite rare for Germans in England, America,
or France to take any pride in their blood. The second generation constantly denies it, changes
its name, assures you it knows nothing of Germany. They have not the spirit of a Touchstone,
and in so far they do their country a wrong.

In another more material sense, too, there are many Germanys, so that when you write of one
corner you may easily write of ways and food and regulations that do not obtain in some other
corner, and it is obviously impossible to remind the reader in every case that the part is
not the whole. Wine is dear in the north, but it has sometimes been so plentiful in the south
that barrels to contain it ran short, and anyone who possessed an empty one could get the measure
of wine it would hold in exchange. Every town and district has its special ways of cooking.
There is great variety in manner of life, in entertainments, and in local law. There are Protestant
and Catholic areas, and there are areas where Protestants, Catholics, and Jews live side by
side. The peasant proprietor of Baden is on a higher level of prosperity and habit than the
peasant serf of Eastern Prussia; and the Jews on the Russian frontier, those strange Oriental
figures in a special dress and wearing earlocks and long beards, have as little in common with
the Jews of Mannheim or Frankfort as with the Jews of the London Stock Exchange. It would,
in fact, be impossible for any one person to enter into every shade and variety of German life.
You can only describe the side you know, and comment on the things you have seen. So you bring
your mite to the store of knowledge which many have increased before you, and which many will
add to again.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Throughout the book, although I am of German parentage, I have spoken of England as my
country and of the English as my country-people. I was born and bred in England, and I found
it more convenient for purposes of expression to belong to one country than to both.

CHAPTER II

CHILDREN

In Germany the storks bring the children. "I know the pond in which all the little children
lie waiting till the storks come to take them to their parents," says the mother stork in Andersen's
story. "The stork has visited the house," people say to each other when a child is born; and
if you go to a christening party you will find that the stork has come too: in sugar on a cake,
perhaps, or to be handed round in the form of ice cream. Most of the kindly intimate little
jests about babies have a stork in them, and a stranger might easily blunder by presenting
an emblem of the bird where it would not be welcome. The house on which storks build is a lucky
one, and people regret the disappearance of their nests from the large towns.

When the baby has come it is not allowed out of doors for weeks. Air and sunlight are considered
dangerous at first, and so is soap and even an immoderate use of water. For eight weeks it
lies day and night in the Steckkissen, a long bag that confines its legs and body but not its
arms. The bag is lined with wadding, and a German nurse, who was showing me one with great
pride, assured me that while a child's bones were soft it was not safe to lift it in any other
way. These bags are comparatively modern, and have succeeded the swaddling clothes still used
in some parts of Germany. They are bandages wrapping the child round like a mummy, and imprisoning
its arms as well as its legs. A German doctor told me that as these Wickelkinder had never
known freedom they did not miss it; but he seemed to approve of the modern compromise that
leaves the upper limbs some power of movement.

Well-to-do German mothers rarely nurse their children. When you ask why, you hear of nerves
and anæmia, and are told that at any rate in cities women find it impossible. I have seen it
stated in a popular book about Germany that mothers there are little more than "aunts" to their
children; and the Steckkissen and the foster-mother were about equally blamed for this unnatural
state of affairs. From our point of view there is not a word to be said in favour of the Steckkissen,
but it really is impossible to believe that a bag lined with wadding can undermine a mother's
affection for her child. Your German friends will often show you a photograph of a young mother
holding her baby in her arms, and the baby, if it is young enough, will probably be in its
bag. But unless you look closely you will take the bag for a long robe, it hangs so softly
and seems so little in the mother's way. It will be as dainty as a robe too, and when people
have the means as costly; for you can deck out your bag with ribbons and laces as easily as
your robe. The objection to foster-mothers has reality behind it, but the evils of the system
are well understood, and have been much discussed of late. Formerly every mother who could
afford it hired one for her child, and peasant women still come to town to make money in this
way. But the practice is on the wane, now that doctors order sterilised milk. The real ruler
of a German nursery is the family doctor. He keeps his eye on an inexperienced mother, calls
when he sees fit, watches the baby's weight, orders its food, and sees that its feet are kept warm.

A day nursery in the English sense of the word is hardly known in Germany. People who can afford
it give up two rooms to the small fry, but where the flat system prevails, and rents are high,
this is seldom possible. One room is usually known as the Kinderstube, and here the children
sleep and play. But it must be remembered that rooms are big, light, and high in Germany, and
that such a Kinderstube will not be like a night nursery in a small English home. Besides,
directly children can walk they are not as much shut up in the nursery as they are in England.
The rooms of a German flat communicate with each other, and this in itself makes the segregation
to which we are used difficult to carry out. During the first few days of a sojourn with German
friends, you are constantly reminded of a pantomime rally in which people run in and out of
doors on all sides of the stage; and if they have several lively children you sometimes wish
for an English room with one door only, and that door kept shut. Even when you pay a call you
generally see the children, and possibly the nurse or the Mamsell with them. But a typical
middle-class German family recognises no such foreign body as a nurse. It employs one maid
of all work, who helps the housewife wherever help is needed, whether it is in the kitchen
or the nursery. The mother spends her time with her children, playing with them when she has
leisure, cooking and ironing and saving for them, and for her husband all through her busy
day. Modern Germans like to tell you that young women no longer devote themselves to these
simple duties, but if you use your eyes you will see that most women do their work as faithfully
as ever. There is an idle, pleasure-loving, money-spending element in Germany as there is in
other countries, and it makes more noise than the steady bulk of the nation, and is an attractive
target there as here for the darts of popular preachers and playwrights. But it is no more
preponderant in Germany than in England. On the whole, the German mother leaves her children
less to servants than the English mother does, and in some way works harder for them. That
is to say, a German woman will do cooking and ironing when an Englishwoman of the same class
would delegate all such work to servants. This is partly because German servants are less efficient
and partly because fewer servants are employed.

The fashionable nurses in Germany are either English or peasant girls in costume. It is considered
smart to send out your baby with a young woman from the Spreewald if you live in Berlin, or
from one of the Black Forest valleys if you live in the duchy of Baden. In some quarters of
Berlin you see the elaborate skirts and caps of the Spreewald beside every other baby-carriage,
but it is said that these girls are chiefly employed by the rich Jews, and you certainly need
to be as rich as a Jew to pay their laundry bills. The young children of the poor are provided
for in Berlin, as they are in other cities, by crêches, where the working mother can leave
them for the day. Several of these institutions are open to the public at certain times, and
those I have seen were well kept and well arranged.

The women of Germany have not thrown away their knitting needles yet, though they no longer
take them to the concert or the play as they did in a less sophisticated age. Children still
learn to knit either at school or at home, and if their mother teaches them she probably makes
them a marvellous ball. She does this by winding the wool round little toys and small coins,
until it hides as many surprises as a Christmas stocking, and is as much out of shape; but
the child who wants the treasures in the stocking has to knit for them, and the faster she
secures them the faster she is learning her lesson. The mother, however, who troubles about
knitting is not quite abreast of her times. The truly modern woman flies at higher game; with
the solemnity and devotion of a Mrs. Cimabue Brown she cherishes in her children a love of
Art. Her watchword is Die Kunst im Leben des Kindes, or Art in the Nursery, and she is assisted
by men who are doing for German children of this generation what Walter Crane and others did
for English nurseries twenty-five years ago. You can get enchanting nursery pictures, toys,
and decorations in Germany to-day, and each big city has its own school of artists who produce
them: friezes where the birds and beasts beloved of children solemnly pursue each other; grotesque
wooden manikins painted in motley; mysterious landscapes where the fairy-tales of the world
might any day come true. Dream pictures these are of snow and moonlight, marsh and forest,
the real Germany lying everywhere outside the cities for those who have eyes to see. Even the
toy department in an ordinary shop abounds in treasures that never seem to reach England: queer
cheap toys made of wood, and not mechanical. It must be a dull child who is content with a
mechanical toy, and it is consoling to observe that most children break the mechanism as quickly
as possible and then play sensibly with the remains. Many of the toys known to generations
of children seemed to be as popular as ever, and quite unchanged. You still find the old toy
towns, for instance, with their red roofed coloured houses and green curly trees, toys that
would tell an imaginative child a story every time they were set up. It is to be hoped they
never will change, but in this sense I have no faith in Germany. The nation is so desperately
intent on improvement that some dreadful day it will improve its toys. Indeed, I have seen
a trade circular threatening some such vandalism; and in the last Noah's ark I bought Noah
and his family had changed the cut of their clothes. So the whole ark had lost some of its charm.

Everyone who is interested in children and their education, and who happens to be in Berlin,
goes to see the Pestalozzi Fröbel Haus, the great model Kindergarten where children of the
working classes are received for fees varying from sixpence to three shillings a month, according
to the means of the parents. There are large halls in which the children drill and sing, and
there are classrooms in which twelve to sixteen children are taught at a time. Every room has
some live birds or other animals and some plants that the children are trained to tend; the
walls are decorated with pictures and processions of animals, many painted and cut out by the
children themselves, and every room has an impressive little rod tied with blue ribbons. But
the little ones do not look as if they needed a rod much. They are cheerful, tidy little people,
although many of them come from poor homes. In the middle of the morning they have a slice
of rye bread, which they eat decorously at table on wooden platters. They can buy milk to drink
with the bread for 5 pf., and they dine in school for 10 pf. They play the usual Kindergarten
games in the usual systematised mechanical fashion, and they study Nature in a real back garden,
where there are real dejected-looking cocks and hens, a real cow, and a lamb. What happens
to the lamb when he becomes a sheep no one tells you. Perhaps he supplies mutton to the school
of cookery in connection with the Kindergarten. Some of the children have their own little
gardens, in which they learn to raise small salads and hardy flowers. There are carpentering
rooms for the boys, and both boys and girls are allowed in the miniature laundry, where they
learn how to wash, starch, and iron doll's clothes. You may frequently see them engaged in
this business, apparently without a teacher; but, as a matter of fact, the children are always
under a teacher's eye, even when they are only digging in a sand heap or weeding their plots
of ground. Each child has a bath at school once a week, and at first the mothers are uneasy
about this part of the programme, lest it should give their child cold. But they soon learn
to approve it, and however poor they are they do their utmost to send a child to school neatly
shod and clad.

As a rule German children of all classes are treated as children, and taught the elementary
virtue of obedience. Das Recht des Kindes is a new cry with some of the new people, but nevertheless
Germany is one of the few remaining civilised countries where the elders still have rights
and privileges. I heard of an Englishwoman the other day who said that she had never eaten
the wing of a chicken, because when she was young it was always given to the older people,
and now that she was old it was saved for the children. If she lived in Germany she would still
have a chance, provided she kept away from a small loud set, who in all matters of education
and morality would like to turn the world upside down. In most German homes the noisy, spoilt
American child would not be endured for a moment, and the little tyrant of a French family
would be taught its place, to the comfort and advantage of all concerned. I have dined with
a large family where eight young ones of various ages sat at an overflow table, and did not
disturb their elders by a sound. It was not because the elders were harsh or the young folk
repressed, but because Germany teaches its youth to behave. The little girls still drop you
a pretty old-fashioned curtsey when they greet you; just such a curtsey as Miss Austen's heroines
must have made to their friends. The little boys, if you are staying in the house with them,
come and shake hands at unexpected times,--when they arrive from school, for instance, and
before they go out for a walk. At first they take you by surprise, but you soon learn to be
ready for them. They play many of the same games as English children, and I need hardly say
that they are brought up on the same fairy stories, because many of our favourites come from
Germany. The little boys wear sensible carpenters' aprons indoors, made of leather or American
cloth; and the little girls still wear bib aprons of black alpaca. Their elders do not play
games with them as much as English people do with their children. They are expected to entertain
and employ themselves; and the immense educational value of games, the training they are in
temper, skill, and manners, is not understood or admitted in Germany as it is here. The Kindergarten
exercises are not competitive, and do not teach a child to play a losing game with effort and
good grace.

CHAPTER III

SCHOOLS

German children go to day schools. This is not to say that there are no boarding schools in
Germany; but the prevailing system throughout the empire is a system of day schools. The German
mother does not get rid of her boys and girls for months together, and look forward to the
holidays as a time of uproar and enjoyment. She does not wonder anxiously what changes she
will see in them when they come back to her. They are with her all the year round,--the boys
till they go to a university, the girls till they marry. Any day in the streets of a German
city you may see troops of children going to school, not with a maid at their heels as in Paris,
but unattended as in England. They have long tin satchels in which they carry their books and
lunch, the boys wear peaked caps, and many children of both sexes wear spectacles.

Except at the Kindergarten, boys and girls are educated separately and differently in Germany.
In some rare cases lately some few girls have been admitted to a boys' Gymnasium, but this
is experimental and at present unusual. It may be found that the presence of a small number
in a large boys' school does not work well. In addition to the elementary schools, there are
four kinds of Public Day School for boys in Germany, and they are all under State supervision.
There is the Gymnasium, the Real-Gymnasium, the Ober-Real-Schule, and the Real-Schule. Until
1870 the Gymnasiums were the only schools that could send their scholars to the universities;
a system that had serious disadvantages. It meant that in choosing a child's school, parents
had to decide whether at the end of his school life he was to have a university education.
Children with no aptitude for scholarship were sent to these schools to receive a scholar's
training; while boys who would have done well in one of the learned professions could not be
admitted to a university, except for science or modern languages, because they had not attended
a Gymnasium.

A boy who has passed through one of these higher schools has had twelve years' education. He
began Latin at the age of ten, and Greek at thirteen. He has learned some French and mathematics,
but no English unless he paid for it as an extra. His school years have been chiefly a preparation
for the university. If he never reaches the higher classes he leaves the Gymnasium with a stigma
upon him, a record of failure that will hamper him in his career. The higher official posts
and the professions will be closed to him; and he will be unfitted by his education for business.
This at least is what many thoughtful Germans say of their classical schools; and they lament
over the unsuitable boys who are sent to them because their parents want a professor or a high
official in the family. It is considered more sensible to send an average boy to a Real-Gymnasium
or to an Ober-Real Schule, because nowadays these schools prepare for the university, and any
boy with a turn for scholarship can get the training he needs. The Ober-Real Schule professedly
pays most attention to modern languages; and it is, in fact, only since 1900 that their boys
are received at a university on the classical side. They still prepare largely for technical
schools and for a commercial career.

At a Real-Schule, the fourth grade of higher school, the course only lasts six years. They
do not prepare for the Abiturienten examination, and their scholars cannot go from them to
a university. They prepare for practical life, and they admit promising boys from the elementary
schools. A boy who has been through any one of these higher schools successfully need only
serve in the army for one year; and that in itself is a great incentive to parents to send
their children. A Real-Schule in Prussia only costs a hundred marks a year, and a Gymnasium
a hundred and thirty-five marks. In some parts of Germany the fees are rather higher, in some
still lower. The headmasters of these schools are all university men, and are themselves under
State supervision. In an entertaining play called Flachsmann als Erzieher the headmaster had
not been doing his duty, and has allowed the school to get into a bad way. The subordinates
are either slack or righteously rebellious, and the children are unruly. The State official
pays a surprise visit, discovers the state of things, and reads the Riot Act all round. The
wicked headmaster is dismissed, the eager young reformer is put in his place, the slackers
are warned and given another chance.... Blessed be St. Bureaukrazius ... says the genial old
god out of a machine, when by virtue of his office he has righted every man's wrongs. The school
in the play must be an elementary one, for children and teachers are of both sexes, but a master
at a Gymnasium told me that the picture of the official visit was not exaggerated in its importance
and effect. There was considerable excitement in Germany over the picture of the evil headmaster,
his incompetent staff, and the neglected children; and I was warned before I saw the play that
I must not think such a state of affairs prevailed in German schools. The warning was quite
unnecessary. An immoral, idle, and ignorant class of men could not carry on the education of
a people as it is carried on throughout the German Empire to-day.

I have before me the Annual Report of a Gymnasium in Berlin, and it may interest English people
to see how many lessons the teachers in each subject gave every week. There were thirty teachers
in the school.

                                     LESSONS
    SUBJECT                          PER WEEK

  Religion                              31
  German                                42
  Latin                                112
  Greek                                 72
  French                                36
  History and Geography                 44
  Mathematics and Arithmetic            56
  Natural History                       10
  Physics                               20
  Hebrew                                 4
  Law                                    1
  Writing                                6
  Drawing                               18
  Singing                               12
  Gymnasium                             27
  Swimming                               8-½
  Handfertigkeit                         3
                                      ----
                                       502-½ lessons

The headmaster took Latin for seven hours every week, and Greek for three hours. A professor
who came solely for religious teaching came for ten hours every week. But most of the masters
taught from sixteen to twenty-four hours, while one who is down for reading, writing, arithmetic,
gymnastics, German, singing, and Natur could not get through all he had to do in less than
thirty hours. On looking into the hours devoted to each subject by the various classes, you
find that the lowest class had three hours religious instruction every week, and the other
classes two hours. There were 407 boys in the school described as Evangelisch, 47 Jews, and
23 Catholics; but in Germany parents can withdraw their children from religious instruction
in school, provided they satisfy the authorities that it is given elsewhere. The two highest
classes had lessons on eight chapters of St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, on the Epistle to
the Philippians, and on the confessions of St. Augustine. Some classes were instructed in the
Gospel according to St. John, and the little boys learned Bible History. So Germans are not
without orthodox theological teaching in their early years, whatever opinions they arrive at
in their adolescence.

Every boy in the school spent two or three hours each week on German composition, and, like
boys in other countries, handled themes they could assuredly not understand, probably, like
other boys, without a scruple or a hesitation.

"Why does the ghost of Banquo appear to Macbeth, and not the ghost of Duncan?"

"How are the unities of time, place, and action treated in Schiller's ballads?"

"Discuss the antitheses in Lessing's Laokoon."

"What can you say about the representation of concrete objects in Goethe's Hermann and Dorothea?"

These examples are taken at random from a list too long to quote completely; but no one need
be impressed by them. Boys perform wonderful feats of this kind in England too. However, I
once heard a German professor say that the English boy outdid the German in gesunder Menschenverstand
(sound common sense), but that the German wins in the race when it comes to the abstract knowledge
(Wissen) that he and his countryfolk prize above all the treasures of the earth. No one who
knows both countries can doubt for a single moment that the professor was right, and that he
stated the case as fairly as it can be stated. In an emergency or in trying circumstances the
English boy would be readier and more self-reliant: but when you meet him where entertainment
is wanted rather than resource, his ignorance will make you open your eyes. This, at any rate,
is the kind of story told and believed of Englishmen in Germany. A student who was working
at science in a German university had been there the whole winter, and though the city possessed
many fine theatres he had only visited a variety show. At last his friends told him that it
was his duty to go to the Schauspielhaus and see a play by Goethe or Schiller. "Goethe! Schiller!"
said my Englishman, "Was ist das?"

The education of girls in Germany is in a transition state at present. Important changes have
been made of late years, and still greater ones, so the reformers say, are pending. Formerly,
if a girl was to be educated at all she went to a Höhere Töchterschule, or to a private school
conducted on the same lines, and, like the official establishment, under State supervision.
When she had finished with school she had finished with education, and began to work at the
useful arts of life, more especially at the art of cooking. What she had learned at school
she had learned thoroughly, and it was considered in those days quite as much as was good for
her. The officials who watched and regulated the education of boys had nothing to do with girls'
schools. These were left to the staff that managed elementary schools, and kept on much the
same level. Girls learned history, geography, elementary arithmetic, two modern languages,
and a great deal of mythology. The scandalous ignorance of mythology displayed by Englishwomen
still shocks the right-minded German. If a woman asked for more than this because she was going
to earn her bread, she spent three years in reading for an examination that qualified her for
one of the lower posts in the school. The higher posts were all in the hands of men. Of late
years women have been able to prepare for a teacher's career at one of the Teachers' Seminaries,
most of which were opened in 1897.

More than forty years ago the English princess in Berlin was not satisfied with what was done
in Germany for the education of women; and one of the many monuments to her memory is the Victoria
Lyceum. This institution was founded at her suggestion by Miss Archer, an English lady who
had been teaching in Berlin for some years, and who was greatly liked and respected there.
At first it only aimed at giving some further education to girls who had left school, and it
was not easy to get men of standing to teach them. But as it was the outcome of a movement
with life in it the early difficulties were surmounted, and its scope and usefulness have grown
since its foundation thirty-eight years ago. It is not a residential college, and it has no
laboratories. During the winter it still holds courses of lectures for women who are not training
for a definite career; but under its present head, Fräulein von Cotta, the chief work of the
Victoria Lyceum has become the preparation of women for the Ober Lehrerin examination. This
is a State examination that can only be passed five years after a girl has qualified as Lehrerin,
and two of these five years must have been spent in teaching at a German school. To qualify
as Lehrerin, a girl must have spent three years at a Seminary for teachers after she leaves
school, and she usually gets through this stage of her training between the ages of fifteen
and eighteen. Therefore a woman must have three years special preparation for a subordinate
post and eight years for a higher post in a German girls' school.

The whole question of women's education is in a ferment in Germany at present, and though everyone
interested is ready to talk of it, everyone tells you that it is impossible to foresee exactly
what reforms are coming. There are to be new schools established, Lyceen and Ober-Lyceen, and
Ober-Lyceen will prepare for matriculation. When girls have matriculated from one of these
schools they will be ready for the university, and will work for the same examinations as men.
Baden was the first German State that allowed women to matriculate at its universities. It
did so in 1900, and in 1903 Bavaria followed suit. In 1905 there were eighty-five women at
the universities who had matriculated in Germany; but there are hundreds working at the universities
without matriculating first. At present the professors are free to admit women or to exclude
them from their classes; but the right of exclusion is rarely exercised. Before long it will
presumably be a thing of the past.

An Englishwoman residing at Berlin, and engaged in education, told me that in her opinion no
German woman living had done as much for her countrywomen as Helene Lange, the president of
the Allgemeine deutsche Frauenverein. Nineteen years ago she began the struggle that is by
no means over, the struggle to secure a better education for women and a greater share in its
control. In English ears her aim will sound a modest one, but English girls' schools are not
entirely in the hands of men, with men for principals and men to teach the higher classes.
She began in 1887 by publishing a pamphlet that made a great sensation, because it demanded,
what after a mighty tussle was conceded, women teachers for the higher classes in girls' schools,
and for these women an academic education. In 1890 she founded, together with Auguste Schmidt
and Marie Loeper-Housselle, the Allgemeine deutsche Lehrerinnen-Verein, which now has 80 branches
and 17,000 members. But the pluckiest thing she did was to fight Prussian officialdom and win.
In 1889 she opened Real-Kurse für Mädchen und Frauen, classes where women could work at subjects
not taught in girls' schools, Latin for instance, and advanced mathematics; for the State in
Germany has always decided how much as well as how little women may learn. It would not allow
people as ignorant as Squeers to keep a school because it offered an easy livelihood. It organised
women's education carefully and thoroughly in the admirable German way; but it laid down the
law from A to Z, which is also the German way. When, therefore, Helene Lange opened her classes
for women, the officials came to her and said that she was doing an illegal thing. She replied
that her students were not schoolgirls under the German school laws, but grown-up women free
to learn what they needed and desired. The officials said that an old law of 1837 would empower
them to close the classes by force if Helene Lange did not do so of her own accord. After some
reflection and in some anxiety she decided to go on with them. By this time public opinion
was on her side and came to her assistance; for public opinion does count in Germany even with
the officials. The classes went on, and were changed in 1893 to Gymnasialkurse. In 1896 the
first German women passed the Abiturienten examination, the difficult examination young men
of eighteen pass at the end of a nine years' course in one of the classical schools. Even to-day
you may hear German men argue that women should not be admitted to universities because they
have had no classical training. Helene Lange was the first to prove that even without early
training women can prepare themselves for an academic career. Her experiment led to the establishment
of Gymnasialkurse in many German cities; and even to the admission of girls in some few cases
to boys' Gymnasium schools.

To-day Helene Lange and her associates are contending with the schoolmasters, who desire to
keep the management of girls' schools in their own hands. She calls the Höhere Töchterschule
the failure of German school organisation, and she says that the difference of view taken by
men and women teachers as to the proper work of girls' schools makes it most difficult to come
to an understanding. Consciously or not, men form an ideal of what they want and expect of
women, and try to educate them up to it; while women think of the claims life may make on a
girl, and desire the full development of her powers. "The Higher Daughter," she says, "must
vanish, and her place must be taken by the girl who has been thoroughly prepared for life,
who can stand on her own feet if circumstances require it, or who brings with her as housewife
the foundations of further self-development, instead of the pretentiousness of the half educated."
In one of her many articles on the subject of school reform she points to three directions
where reform is needed. What she says about the teaching of history is so characteristic of
her views and of the modern movement in Germany, that I think the whole passage is worth translation:--

     "All those subjects that help to make a woman a better
     citizen must be taken more seriously," she says. "It can no
     longer be the proper aim of history teaching to foster and
     strengthen in women a sentimental attachment to her country
     and its national character: its aim must be to give her the
     insight that will enable her to understand the forces at
     work, and ultimately play an active part in them. Many
     branches of our social life await the work of women, civic
     philanthropy to begin with; and as our public life becomes
     more and more constitutional, it demands from the individual
     both a ripe insight into the good of the community and a
     living sense of duty in regard to its destiny; and, on the
     other hand, the foundations of this insight and sense of duty
     must be in our times more and more laid by the mother, since
     the father is often entirely prevented by his work from
     sharing in the education of his children. Therefore, both on
     her own account and in consideration of the task before her,
     a woman just as much as a man should understand and take a
     practical interest in public life, and it is the business of
     the school to see that she does so. Over and over again those
     who are trying to reform girls' schools insist that history
     teaching should lead the student to understand the present
     time; that it should recognise those economic conditions on
     which the history of the world, especially in our day,
     depends in so great a measure; that it should pay attention
     not only to dates and events, but also to the living process
     of civilisation, since it is only from the latter inquiry
     that we can arrive at the principles of individual effort in
     forwarding social life."

Nowadays in Germany Helene Lange is considered one of the "Moderates," but it will be seen
from the above quotation that she has travelled far from the old ideals which invested women
with many beautiful qualities, but not with the sense and knowledge required of useful public
citizens. She proceeds in the same article to say that scientific and mathematical teaching
should reach a higher standard in girls' schools; and thirdly, that certain branches of psychology,
physiology, and hygiene should receive greater attention, because a woman is a better wife
and mother when she fulfils her duties with understanding instead of by mere instinct. Nor
will education on this higher plane deprive women of any valuable feminine virtues if it is
carried out in the right way. But to this end women must direct it, and in great measure take
it into their own hands. She would not shut men out of girls' schools, but she would place
women in supreme authority there, and give them the lion's share of the work.

It seems to the English onlooker that this contest can only end in one way, and that if the
women of Germany mean to have the control of girls' schools they are bound to get it. Some
of the evils of the present system lie on the surface. "It is a fact," said a schoolmaster,
speaking lately at a conference,--"it is a fact that a more intimate, spiritual, and personal
relationship is developed between a schoolgirl and her master than between a schoolgirl and
her mistress." This remark, evidently made in good faith, was received with hilarity by a large
mixed audience of teachers; and when one reflects on the unbridled sentiment of some "higher
daughters" one sees where it must inevitably find food under the present anomalous state of
things. But the schoolmaster's argument is the argument brought forward by many men against
the reforms desired by Helene Lange and her party. They insist that girls would deteriorate
if they were withdrawn throughout their youth from masculine scholarship and masculine authority
in school. They talk of the emasculation of the staff as a future danger. They do not seem
to talk of their natural reluctance to cede important posts to women, but this must, of course,
strengthen their pugnacity and in some cases colour their views.

Meanwhile many parents prefer to send their daughters to one of the private schools that have
a woman at the head, and where most of the teaching is done by women; or to a Stift, a residential
school of the conventual type, which may be either Protestant or Catholic. A girl who had spent
some years at a well-known Protestant Stift described her school life to me as minutely as
possible, and it sounded so like the life in a good English boarding-school thirty years ago
that it is difficult to pick out points of differences. That only means, of course, that the
differences were subtle and not apparent in rules and time-tables. The girls wore a school
uniform, were well fed and taught, strictly looked after, taken out for walks and excursions,
allowed a private correspondence, shown how to mend their clothes, made to keep their rooms
tidy, encouraged in piety and decorum. In these strenuous times it sounds a little old-fashioned,
and as a matter of fact a school of this kind fits a girl for a sheltered home but not for
the open road. For everyone concerned about the education of women the interesting spectacle
in Germany to-day is the campaign being carried on by Helene Lange and her party, the support
they receive from the official as well as from the unofficial world, and the progress they
make year by year to gain their ends.

CHAPTER IV

THE EDUCATION OF THE POOR

There are no people in the world who need driving to school less than the Germans. There are
no people in the world who set so high a value on knowledge. In the old days, when they lived
with Jove in the clouds, they valued knowledge solely for its own sake, and did not trouble
much about its practical use in the world. It is absurd to say, as people often do now, that
this spirit is dead in the nation. You cannot be long in the society of Germans without recognising
that it survives wherever the stress of modern life leaves room for it. You see that when a
German makes money his sons constantly enter the learned and the artistic professions with
his full approval, though they are most unlikely to make a big income in this way. You are
told by people who work amongst the poor, that parents will make any sacrifices year after
year in order to send a boy to one of the higher schools. You know that the Scotsmen who live
on oatmeal while they acquire learning have their counterparts in the German universities,
where many a student would not dine at all if private or organised charity did not give him
a dinner so many days a week. Sometimes you have heard it said of such and such a great German,
that he was so poor when he was young that he had to accept these free dinners given in every
German university town to penniless students. The fact would be remembered, but it would never
count against a man in Germany. The dollar is not almighty there.

To say, therefore, that education is compulsory throughout the empire is not to say that it
is unpopular. A teacher in an elementary school was once telling me how particular the authorities
were that every child, even the poorest, should come to school properly clothed and shod. "For
instance," she said, "if a child comes to school in house-shoes he is sent straight home again."
"But do the parents mind that?" I asked from my English point of view, for the teacher was
speaking of people who in England would live in slums and care little whether their children
were educated or not. But in Germany even the poorest of the poor do care, and to refuse a
child admission to school is an effective punishment. At any rate, you may say this of the
majority. No doubt if school was not compulsory the dregs of the nation would slip out of the
net, especially in those parts of the empire where the prevalent character is shiftless and
easy going. "When you English think that we hold the reins too tight, it is because you do
not understand what a mixed team we have to drive," a north German said to me. "We should not
get on, we should not hold together long, if our rule was slack and our attention careless."

At the last census only one in 10,000 could not read or write, and these dunces were all Slavs.
But how even a Slav born under the eye of the Eagle can remain illiterate is a mystery. In
1905 there were 59,348 elementary schools in the empire, and their organisation is as elaborate
and well planned as the organisation of the army. In Berlin alone there are 280. All the teachers
at these schools have been trained to teach at special seminaries, and have passed State examinations
that qualify them for their work. In Germany many men and women, entitled both by class and
training to teach in the higher grade schools, have taken up work in the elementary ones from
choice. I know one lady whose certificates qualify her to teach in a Höhere Töchterschule and
who elects to teach a large class of backward children in a Volkschule. Her ambition is to
teach those children described in Germany as nicht völlig normal: children we should describe
as "wanting." She says that her backward children repay her for any extra trouble they give
by their affection and gratitude. She knows the circumstances of every child in her class,
and where there is real need she can get help from official sources or from philanthropic organisations,
because a teacher's recommendation carries great weight in Germany. This lady gets up every
day in summer at a quarter past five, in order to be in school by seven. Her school hours are
from seven to eleven in summer, and from eight till twelve in winter; but she has a great deal
of work to prepare and correct after school. Her salary is raised with every year of service,
and when she is past work she will be entitled to a State pension of thirty pounds.

Children have to attend school from the age of six and to stay till they are fourteen; and
in their school years they are not allowed to work at a trade without permission. They do not
learn foreign languages, but they are thoroughly grounded in German, and they receive religious
instruction. Of course, they learn history, geography, and arithmetic. In the new schools every
child is obliged to have a warm bath every week, but it is not part of a teacher's duties to
superintend it. Probably the women who clean the school buildings do so. In the old schools,
where there are no bathrooms, the children are given tickets for the public bathing establishments.
The State does not supply free food, but there are philanthropic societies that supply those
children who need it with a breakfast of bread and milk in winter. Everyone connected with
German schools says that no child would apply for this if his parents were not destitute, and
one teacher told me a story of the headmaster's boy being found, to his father's horror and
indignation, seated with the starving children and sharing their free lunch. He had brought
his own lunch with him, but it was his first week at school, and he thought that a dispensation
of bread and milk in the middle of the morning was part of the curriculum.

School books are supplied to children too poor to buy them, and it seems that no trouble is
given by applications for this kind of relief by people not entitled to it. Gymnastics are
compulsory for both boys and girls in the lower classes, and choral singing is taught in every
school. Teachers must all be qualified to accompany singing on the violin. Most of the elementary
schools in Prussia are free. Some few charge sixpence a month. A child can even have free teaching
in its own home if it is able to receive instruction, but not to attend school. Medical inspection
is rigorously carried out in German elementary schools. The doctor not only watches the general
health of the school, but he registers the height, weight, carriage, state of nourishment,
and vaccination marks of each child on admission; the condition of the eyes and ears and any
marked constitutional tendency he can discover. Every child is examined once a month, when
necessary once a fortnight. In this way weak or wanting children are weeded out, and removed
to other surroundings, the short-sighted and the deaf are given places in the schoolroom to
suit them. The system protects the child and helps the teacher, and has had the best results
since it was introduced into Prussia in 1888.

Attendance at continuation schools is now compulsory on boys and girls for three years after
leaving the elementary school, where they have had eight years steady education. They must
attend from four to six hours weekly; instruction is free, and is given in the evening, when
the working day is over. Certain classes of the community are free, but about 30,000 students
attend these schools in Berlin. The subjects taught are too many to enumerate. They comprise
modern languages, history, law, painting, music, mathematics, and various domestic arts, such
as ironing and cooking. More boys than girls attend these schools, as girls are more easily
exempt. It is presumably not considered so necessary for them as for their brothers to continue
their education after the age of fourteen.

One of the most interesting experiments being made in Germany at present is the "open air"
school, established for sickly children during the summer months. The first one was set up
by the city of Charlottenberg at the suggestion of their Schulrat and their school doctor,
and it is now being imitated in other parts of Germany. From Charlottenberg the electric cars
take you right into the pine forest, far beyond the last houses of the growing city. The soil
here is loose and sandy, and the air in summer so soft that it wants strength and freshness.
But as far out as this it is pure, and the medical men must deem it healing, for they have
set up three separate ventures close together amongst the pine trees. One belongs to the Society
of the Red Cross, and here sick and consumptive women come with their children for the day,
and are waited on by the Red Cross sisters. We saw some of them lying about on reclining chairs,
and some, less sickly, were playing croquet. The second establishment is for children who are
not able to do any lessons, children who have been weeded out by the school doctor because
they are backward and sickly. There are a hundred and forty children in this school, and there
is a crêche with twenty beds attached to it for babies and very young children. One airy room
with two rows of neat beds was for rickety children.

The third and largest of the settlements was the Waldschule, open every day, Sundays included,
from the end of April to the middle of October, and educating two hundred and forty delicate
children chosen from the elementary schools of Charlottenberg. We arrived there just as the
children were going to sit down to their afternoon meal of bread and milk, and each child was
fetching its own mug hanging on a numbered hook. The meals in fine weather are taken at long
tables in the open air. When it rains they are served in big shelters closed on three sides.
Dotted about the forest there were mushroom-shaped shelters with seats and tables beneath them,
sufficient cover in slight showers; and there were well lighted, well aired class-rooms, where
the children are taught for twenty-five minutes at a time.

All the buildings are on the Doecker system, and were manufactured by Messrs. Christoph & Unmark
of Niesky. This firm makes a speciality of schools and hospitals, built in what we should call
the bungalow style. Of course, this style exactly suits the needs of the school in the forest.
There is not a staircase in the place, there is no danger of fire, no want of ventilation,
and very little work for housemaids or charwomen. The school furniture is simple and carefully
planned. Some of it was designed by Richard Riemerschmid of Munich, the well-known artist.

Each child has two and a half hours' work each day; all who are strong enough do gymnastics,
and all have baths at school. Each child has its own locker and its own numbered blanket for
use out of doors on damp or chilly days. The doctor visits the school twice a week, and the
weight of each child is carefully watched. The busy sister who superintends the housekeeping
and the hygienic arrangements seemed to know how much each child had increased already; and
she told us what quantities of food were consumed every day. The kitchen and larder were as
bright and clean as such places always are in Germany. When the children arrive in the morning
at half-past seven they have a first breakfast of Griesbrei. At ten o'clock they have rolls
and butter. Their dinner consists of one solid dish. The day we were there it had been pork
and cabbage, a combination Germans give more willingly to delicate children than we should;
the next day it was to be Nudelsuppe and beef. At four o'clock they have bread and milk, and
just before they go home a supper like their early breakfast of milk-soup, and bread. 260 litres
of milk are used every day, 50 to 60 lbs. of meat, 2 cwts. potatoes, 30 big rye loaves, 280
rolls, and when spinach, for instance, is given, 80 lbs. of spinach. We asked whether the children
paid, and were told that those who could afford it paid from 25 to 45 pf. a day. The school
is kept open throughout the summer holidays, but no work is done then, and two-thirds of the
teachers are away. Although the children are at play for the greater part of the day in term
time, and all day in the holidays, the headmaster told us that they gave no trouble. There
was not a dirty or untidy child to be seen, nor one with rough manners. They are allowed to
play in the light, sandy soil of the forest, much as English children play at the seaside,
and we saw the beginning of an elaborate chain of fortresses defended by toy guns and decorated
with flowers. We heard a lesson in mental arithmetic given in one of the class-rooms, the boys
sitting on one side of the room and the girls on the other; and we found that these young sickly
children were admirably taught and well advanced for their age. To be a teacher in one of these
open-air schools is hard work, because the strain is never wholly relaxed. All day long, and
a German day is very long, the children must be watched and guarded, sheltered from changes
in the weather and prevented from over-tiring themselves. Many of them come from poor cramped
homes, and to spend the whole summer in the forest more at play than at work makes them most
happy. I met Germans who did not approve of the Waldschule who considered it a fantastic extravagant
experiment, too heavy for the rate-payers to bear. This is a side of the question that the
rate-payers must settle for themselves; but there is no doubt about the results of the venture
on the children sent to school in the forest. They get a training that must shape their whole
future, moral and physical, a training that changes so many unsound citizens into sound ones
every year for the German Empire. If the rate-payers can survive the strain it seems worth while.

CHAPTER V

THE BACKFISCH

The word is untranslatable, though my dictionary translates it. Backfisch, m. fried fish; young
girl; says the dictionary. In Germany a woman does not arrive at her own gender till she marries
and becomes somebody's Frau. Woman in general, girl, and miss are neuter; and the fried-fish
girl is masculine. But if one little versed in German wished to tell you that he liked a fried
sole, and said Ich liebe einen Backfisch, it might lead to misunderstandings. The origin of
the word in this application is dubious. Some say it means fish that are baked in the oven
because they are too small to fry in pans; but this does not seem a sensible explanation to
anyone who has seen white-bait cooked. Others say it means fish the anglers throw back into
the water because they are small. At any rate, the word used is to convey an impression of
immaturity. A Backfisch is what English and American fashion papers call a "miss." You may
see, too, in German shop windows a printed intimation that special attention is given to Backfisch
Moden. It is a girl who has left school but has not cast off her school-girl manners; and who,
according to her nation and her history, will require more or less last touches.

Miss Betham-Edwards tells us that a French girl is taught from babyhood to play her part in
society, and that the exquisite grace and taste of Frenchwomen are carefully developed in them
from the cradle. An English girl begins her social education in the nursery, and is trained
from infancy in habits of personal cleanliness and in what old-fashioned English people call
"table manners." An Englishwoman, who for many years lived happily as governess in a German
country house, told me how on the night of her arrival she tried out of politeness to eat and
drink as her hosts did; and how the mistress of the house confided to her later that she had
disappointed everyone grievously. There were daughters in the family, and they were to learn
to behave at table in the English way. That was why the father, arriving from Berlin, had on
his own initiative brought them an English governess; for the English are admitted by their
continental friends to excel in this special branch of manners, while their continental enemies
charge them with being "ostentatiously" well groomed and dainty. The truth is, that if you
have lived much with both English and Germans, and desire to be fair and friendly to both races,
you find that your generalisations will not often weigh on one side. The English child learns
to eat with a fork rather than with a spoon, and never by any chance to put a knife in its
mouth, or to touch a bone with its fingers. The German child learns that it must never wear
a soiled or an unmended garment or have untidy hair. I have known a German scandalised by the
slovenly wardrobe of her well-to-do English pupil, and I have heard English people say that
to hear Germans eat soup destroyed their appetite for dinner. English girls are not all slovens,
and nowadays decently bred Germans behave like other people at table. But untidiness is commoner
in England than in Germany, and you may still stumble across a German any day who, abiding
by old customs, puts his knife in his mouth and takes his bones in his hands. He will not only
do these things, but defend them vociferously. In that case you are strongly advised not to
eat a dish of asparagus in his company.

Your modern German Backfisch may be a person of finish and wide culture. You may find that
she insists on her cold tub every morning, and is scandalised by your offer of hot water in
it. She has seen Salome as a play and heard Salome as an opera. She has seen plays by G.B.S.
both in Berlin and London. She does not care to see Shakespeare in London, because, as she
tells you, the English know nothing about him. Besides, he could not sound as well in English
as in German. She has read Carlyle, and is now reading Ruskin. She adores Byron, but does not
know Keats, Shelley, or Rossetti. Tennyson she waves contemptuously away from her, not because
she has read him, but because she has been taught that his poetry is "bourgeois." Her favourite
novels are Dorian Gray and Misunderstood. She dresses with effect and in the height of fashion,
she speaks French and English fluently, she has travelled in Italy and Switzerland, she plays
tennis well, she can ride and swim and skate, and she would cycle if it was not out of fashion.
In fact, she can do anything, and she knows everything, and she has been everywhere. Your French
and English girls are ignorant misses in comparison with her, and you say to yourself as you
watch her and humbly listen to her opinions, delivered without hesitation and expressed without
mistakes: "Where is the German Backfisch of yesteryear?"

"Did you ever read Backfischchen's Leiden und Freuden?" you say to her; for the book is in
its 55th edition, and you have seen German girls devouring it only last week; German girls
of a different type, that is, from your present glittering companion.

"That old-fashioned inferior thing," she says contemptuously. "I believe my mother had it.
That is not literature."

You leave her to suppose you could not have made that discovery for yourself, and you spend
an amusing hour over the story again, for there are occasions when a book that is not "literature"
will serve your purpose better than a masterpiece. The little book has entertained generations
of German girls, and is presumably accepted by them, just as Little Women is accepted in America
or The Daisy Chain in England. The picture was always a little exaggerated, and some of its
touches are now out of date; yet as a picture of manners it still has a value. It narrates
the joys and sorrows of a young girl of good family who leaves her country home in order to
live with an aunt in Berlin, a facetious but highly civilised aunt who uses a large quantity
of water at her morning toilet. All the stages of this toilet are minutely described, and all
the mistakes the poor countrified Backfisch makes the first morning. She actually gets out
of bed before she puts on her clothes, and has to be driven behind the bed curtains by her
aunt's irony. This is an incident that is either out of date or due to the genius and imagination
of the author, for I have never seen bed curtains in Germany. However, Gretchen is taught to
perform the early stages of her toilet behind them, and then to wash for the first time in
her life in a basin full of water. She is sixteen. Her aunt presents her with a sponge, and
observes that the civilisation of a nation is judged by the amount of soap it uses. "In much
embarrassment I applied myself to this unaccustomed task," continues the ingenuous Backfisch,
"and I managed it so cleverly that everything around me was soon swimming. To make matters
worse, I upset the water-jug, and now the flood spread to the washstand, the floor, the bed
curtains, even to my clothes lying on the chair. If only this business of dressing was over,"
she sighs as she is about to brush her teeth, with brushes supplied by her aunt. But it is
by no means over. She is just going to slip into a dressing-gown, cover her unbrushed hair
with a cap, and so proceed to breakfast, when this exacting aunt stops her: actually desires
her to plait and comb her hair at this hour of the morning, and to put on a tidy gown. Gretchen's
gown is extremely untidy, and on that account I will not admit that the portrait is wholly
lifelike. In fact, the author has summed up the sins of all the Backfisch tribe, and made a
single Backfisch guilty of them. But caricature, if you know how to allow for it, is instructive.
Mr. Stiggins is a caricature, yet he stands for failings that exist among us, though they are
never displayed quite so crudely. "Go and brush your nails," says the aunt to the niece when
the girl attempts to kiss her hand; and the Backfisch uses a nail-brush for the first time
in her life.

Then the two ladies sit down to breakfast. Gretchen fills the cups too full, soaks her roll
in her coffee, and drinks out of her saucer. Her aunt informs her that "coffee pudding" is
not polite, and can only be allowed when they are by themselves; also that she must not drink
out of the saucer. "But we children always did it at home," says Gretchen. "I can well believe
it," says the aunt. "Everything is permitted to children." The italics are mine.

An aunt who has such ideas about the education of the young is naturally not surprised when
at dinner-time she has to admonish her niece not to wipe her mouth with her hand, not to speak
with her mouth full, to eat her soup quietly, to keep her elbows off the table, not to put
her fingers in her plate or her knife in her mouth, and not to take her chicken into her hands
on ceremonial occasions.

"My treasure," says the aunt, "as you know, we are going to dinner with the Dunkers to-morrow.
Be good enough not to take your chicken into your hands. Here at home I don't object to it,
but the really correct way is to separate the meat from the bone with the knife and fork."

The docile Backfisch says Jawohl, liebe Tante, and feels that this business of becoming civilised
is full of pitfalls and surprises. Never in her life has she eaten poultry without the assistance
of her fingers. When she gets to the dinner-party she is fortunate enough to sit next to her
bosom friend, who starts in horror and whispers "With a knife, Gretchen," when Gretchen is
just about to dip her fingers in the salt. The Backfisch is truly anxious to learn, but she
feels that the injunctions of society are hard, and says it is poor sport to eat your chicken
with a knife and fork, because the best part sticks to the bones. Then her friend stops her
from drinking fruit syrup out of her plate, and her neighbour on the other side, a stout guzzler
who has not been taught by his aunt to eat properly, encourages Gretchen to drink too much
champagne.

After these early adventures the education of the Backfisch proceeds quickly. She has to learn
at her aunt's tea-parties not to fill cups to overflowing in sheer exuberance of hospitality;
and she is also instructed not to press food on people. "In good society," says the aunt, "people
decline to eat because they have had enough, and not because they require pressing." She is
obliged also to discourage Gretchen from waiting too attentively on the young men who visit
at the house; and Gretchen, who does not care about young men, but only yearns to be serviceable,
devotes herself in future to the old ladies, their foot-stools, their knitting, and their smelling
bottles. This touch is one of many that makes the book, in spite of its obvious shortcomings,
valuable as a picture of German character and manner. It is impossible to imagine Gretchen
in a French or English story of the same class. The French girl would be more adroit and witty;
the English girl would expect young men to wait on her; and neither of them would gush as Gretchen
did about her old ladies. "My readiness to serve them knew no bounds. To arrange their seats
to their liking, to give them stools for their feet and cushions for their backs, to rush for
their shawls and cloaks, to count the rows in their knitting, to help them pick up their stitches,
to thread their needles, to wind silk or wool, to peel fruit, to run for smelling bottles and
cold water,--all these things I did with delight the instant my watchful eye discovered the
smallest wish, and I was always cordially thanked."

Tastes differ. Some old ladies would be made quite uncomfortable by such fussy attentions.
The Backfisch goes on to say that she was equally assiduous in waiting on the old gentlemen.
She picked up anything they dropped, polished their spectacles for them, and listened to their
dull stories when no one else would. I consider the portrait of Gretchen in this story a literary
triumph. I can see the girl; I can hear her voice and laugh. I know exactly how she behaved
and what the old ladies and gentlemen said to her, how she dressed and how she did her hair;
not because the author tells me just these things, but because her type is as true to life
to-day as it was thirty years ago. As a contrast to her, a fine young lady from the city presently
joins the household, and the aunt does not have to provide her with a tooth-brush. The new
arrival wears blue satin slippers, drinks her chocolate in bed, and cannot dress without the
help of a maid. In this way the author shows you that girls brought up in cities are superfine
rather than savage, and that you are not to suppose the ordinary German Backfisch is like her
little heroine from the provinces.

The truth of the matter is, that no one nowadays has such manners as the Backfisch had when
she first came from the wilds; at least, no one of her class, even if they have grown up in
Hinter-Pommern. But if you travel in Germany next week and stay in small towns and country
places, you will still meet plenty of people who take their poultry bones in their fingers
and put their knives in their mouths. If they are men you will see them use their fork as a
dagger to hold the meat while they cut it up; you will see them stick their napkins into their
shirt collars and placidly comb their hair with a pocket comb in public; if they are women
and at a restaurant, they will pocket the lumps of sugar they have not used in their coffee.
But if you are in private houses amongst people of Gretchen's type you will see none of these
things. A German host still pulls the joint close to him sometimes or stands up to carve, and
a German hostess still presses you to eat, still in the kindness of her heart piles up your
plate. But this embarrassing form of hospitality is dying out. As Gretchen's aunt said, people
in good society recognise that a guest refuses food because he does not want it. Some years
ago, when you had satisfied your hunger and declined more, your German friends used to look
offended or distressed, and say Sie geniren sich gewiss. This is a difficult phrase to translate,
because the idea is one that has never taken root in the English mind, Sich geniren, however,
is a reflective verb, a corruption of the French verb se gêner, and what they meant was that
you really wanted a third potato dumpling but did not like to say so. Whether your reluctance
was supposed to proceed from your distrust of your host's hospitality or shame at your own
appetite, is not clear; in either case it was taken, is even to-day still often taken, for
artificial. To accept a portion of an untouched dish was considered a sign that you came from
"a good house" where no one grudged or wished to save the food put on the table; and formerly
you could not refuse sugar in your tea without being commended for your economy. You are still
invited to eat tarts and puddings in Germany with what we consider the insufficient assistance
of a tea-spoon, but I have never been in a private house where salt-spoons were not provided.
You never used to find them in inns of a plain kind, and unless you were known to be English
and peculiar you were not provided with more than one knife and fork for all the courses of
a table d'hôte. You would see your German neighbours putting theirs aside as a matter of course
when their plates were removed.

On the whole, then, the celebrated picture of the Backfisch, though it is overloaded, bears
some relation to the facts of life in Germany: not only in the episodes that make the early
chapters entertaining, but all through the story in atmosphere, in the little touches that
give a story nationality. When the excellent Gretchen has been civilised she spends a great
deal of time in the kitchen, and soon knows all the duties of the complete housekeeper; while,
when the frivolous Eugenie becomes Braut she cannot cook at all. But frivolous as she is, she
recognises that marriage is unthinkable without cooking, and straightway sets to work to learn.
Then, too, the Backfisch is the ideal German maiden, cheerful, docile, and facetious; and constantly
on the jump (springen is the word she uses) to serve her elders. Middle-aged Germans used to
have a most tiresome way of expecting girls to be like lambs in spring, always in the mood
to frisk and caper: so that a quiet or a delicate girl had a bad time with some of them. Ein
junges Mädchen muss immer heiter sein, they would say reproachfully. But it does not follow
that you are always heiter just because you are not twenty yet; especially in Germany, where
girls are often anæmic and have headaches. However, perhaps the modern German maiden does not
allow her elders to be so silly.

There are some other ways, too, in which my Backfisch of thirty years ago is typical of German
womanhood both then and now. She is as good as gold, she is devoted to duty not to pleasure,
and she is as guileless as a child. You know that when she marries she will be faithful unto
death; you know that her husband and her children will call her blessed. These things come
out quite naturally, almost unconsciously, in the little story that is "not literature," and
which for all that is so truly and deeply German in its quality and tone. This Gretchen of
the schoolroom, this caricature of the country cousin, is akin in her simplicity, sweetness,
and depth of nature to that other Gretchen whose figure lives for ever in the greatest of German
poems. Just as the women of Shakespeare and the women of Miss Austen are subtly kin to each
other, inasmuch as they are English women, so Goethe's girl and the girl of the poor little
schoolroom story are German in every pulse and fibre. And this national essence, the honesty,
goodness, and sweetness of the girl, are the real things, the things to remember about her.
Those little matters of the toilet and the table will soon be out of date, are out of date
already in the greater part of Germany. As a picture of forgotten manners they will always
be amusing, just as it is amusing to read an eighteenth-century English story of school life,
in which the young ladies fought and bit and scratched each other and were whipped and sent to bed.

CHAPTER VI

THE STUDENT

When an English lad goes to the university he usually goes there from a public school, where
out of school hours he has been learning for years past to be a man. In these strenuous days
he may have learned a little in school hours too, but that is a new departure. Cricket and
character are what an English boy expects to develop at school, and if there is stuff in him
he succeeds. He does not set a high value on learning. Even if he works and brings home prizes
he will not be as proud of them as of his football cap, while a boy who is head of the school,
but a duffer at games, will live for all time in the memory of his fellows as a failure. But
the German boy goes to school to acquire knowledge, and he too gets what he wants. The habit
of work must be strong in him when at the age of eighteen he goes to one of his many universities.
But when he gets there he is free for the first time in his life, and the first use he for
the most part makes of his freedom is to be thoroughly, happily idle. This idleness, if he
has a backbone and a call to work, only lasts a term or two; and no one who knows how a German
boy is held to the grindstone for twelve years of school life can grudge him a holiday. But
the odd fact is, that the Briton who leaves school a man is more under control at Oxford or
Cambridge than the German at Heidelberg who leaves school a boy.

A German university is a teaching institution which prepares for the State examinations, and
is never residential. There are no old colleges. The professors live in flats like other people,
and the students live in lodgings or board with private families. There is one building or
block of buildings called the Universität where there are laboratories and lecture-rooms. The
State can decline a professor chosen by the university; but this power is rarely exercised.
The teachers at a German university consist of ordinary professors, extraordinary professors,
and Privatdocenten--men who are not professors yet, but hope to be some day. An Englishman
in his ignorance might think that an extraordinary professor ought to rank higher than an ordinary
one; but this is not so. The ordinary professors are those who have chairs; the extraordinary
ones have none. But all professors have a fixed salary which is paid to the day of their death,
though they may cease work when they choose. The salaries vary from £240 to £350, and are paid
by the State, but this income is increased by lecturing fees. Whether it is largely increased
depends on the popularity of the lecturer and on his subject. An astronomer cannot expect large
classes, while a celebrated professor of Law or Medicine addresses crowds. I have found it
difficult to make my English friends believe that there are professors now in Berlin earning
as much as £2500 a year. The English idea of the German professor is rudely disturbed by such
a fact, for his poverty and simplicity of life have played as large a part in our tradition
of him as his learning. The Germans seem to recognise that a scholar cannot want as much money
as a man of affairs; therefore, when one of their professors is so highly esteemed by the youth
of the nation that his fees exceed £225, half of the overflow goes to the university and not
to him at all. In this way Berlin receives a considerable sum every year, and uses it to assist
poorer professors and to attract new men. As a rule a German professor has not passed the State
examinations. These are official, not academic, and they qualify men for government posts rather
than for professorial chairs. A professor acquires the academic title of doctor by writing
an original essay that convinces the university of his learning. The title confers no privileges.
It is an academic distinction, and its value depends on the prestige of the university conferring
it.

Germans say that our English universities exist to turn out gentlemen rather than scholars,
and that the aim of their own universities is to train servants for the State and to encourage
learning. I think an Englishman would say that a gentleman is bred at home, but he would understand
how the German arrived at his point of view. When a German talks of an English university he
is thinking of Oxford and Cambridge, and he knows that, roughly speaking, it is the sons of
well-to-do men who go there. Perhaps he does not know much about the Scotch and Irish and Welsh
universities, or London, or the north of England; though it is never safe to build on what
a German does not know. I once took for granted that a man talking to me of some point in history
would no more remember all the names and dates of the Kings of Scotland than I remember them
myself. But he knew every one, and was scandalised by my ignorance. So perhaps the average
German knows better than I do what it costs a man to graduate at Edinburgh or at Dublin. Anyhow,
he knows that three or four years at Oxford or Cambridge cost a good deal; and he knows that
in Berlin, for instance, a student can live on sixty pounds a year, out of which he can afford
about five pounds a term for academic fees. If he is too poor to pay his fees the authorities
allow him to get into their debt, and pay later in life when he has a post. There are cases
where a man pays for his university training six years after he has ended it. But a German
university comes to a man's help still more effectively when there is need for it, and will
grant him partial or even entire support. Then there are various organisations for providing
hungry men with dinners so many days a week; sometimes at a public table, sometimes with families
who arrange to receive one or more guests on certain days every week. The Jewish community
in a university always looks after its poor students well, and this practice of entertaining
them in private houses is one that gives rises to many jests and stories. The students soon
find out which of their hosts are liberal and which are not, and give them a reputation accordingly.

A German comparing his universities with the English ones will always lay stress on the fact
that his are not examining bodies, and that his professors are not crammers but teachers. A
student who intends to pass the State examinations chooses his own course of reading for them,
and the lectures that he thinks will help him. He does not necessarily spend his whole time
at the same university, but may move from one to the other in pursuit of the professors he
wants for his special purpose. He is quite free to do this; and he is free to work night and
day, or to drink beer night and day. He is under no supervision either in his studies or his
way of life.

English people who have been to Germany at all have invariably been to Heidelberg, and if they
have been there in term time they have been amused by the gangs of young men who swagger about
the narrow streets, each gang wearing a different coloured cap. They will have been told that
these are the "corps" students, and the sight of them so jolly and so idle will confirm their
mental picture of the German student, the picture of a young man who does nothing but drink
beer, fight duels, sing Volkslieder and Trinklieder, and make love to pretty low-born maidens.
When you see a company of these young men clatter into the Schloss garden on a summer afternoon,
and drink vast quantities of beer, when you observe their elaborate ceremonial of bows and
greetings, when you hear their laughter and listen to the latest stories of their monkey tricks,
you understand that the student's life is a merry one, but except for the sake of tradition
you wonder why he need lead it at a seat of learning. Anything further removed from learning
than a German corps student cannot be imagined, and the noise he makes must incommode the quiet
working students who do not join a corps. Not that the quiet working students would wish to
banish the others. They are the glory of the German universities. In novels and on the stage
none others appear. The innocent foreigner thinks that the moment a young German goes to the
Alma Mater of his choice he puts on an absurd little cap, gets his face slashed, buys a boarhound,
and devotes all his energies to drinking beer and ragging officials. But though the "corps"
students are so conspicuous in the small university towns, it is only the men of means who
join them. For poorer students there is a cheaper form of union, called a Burschenschaft. When
a young German goes to the university he has probably never been from home before, and by joining
a Corps or a Burschenschaft he finds something to take the place of home, companions with whom
he has a special bond of intimacy, and a discipline that carries on his social education; for
the etiquette of these associations is most elaborate and strict. The members of a corps all
say "thou" to each other, and on the Alte Herren Abende, when members of an older generation
are entertained by the young ones of to-day, this practice still obtains, although one man
may be a great minister of State and the other a lad fresh from school. The laws of a "corps"
remind you of the laws made by English schoolboys for themselves,--they are as solemnly binding,
as educational, and as absurd. If a Vandal meets a Hessian in the street he may not recognise
him, though the Hessian be his brother; but outside the town's boundary this prohibition is
relaxed, for it is not rooted in ill feeling but in ceremony. One corps will challenge another
to meet it on the duelling ground, just as an English football team will meet another--in friendly
rivalry. All the students' associations except the theological require their members to fight
these duels, which are really exercises in fencing, and take place on regular days of the week,
just as cricket matches do in England. The men are protected by goggles and by shields and
baskets on various parts of their bodies, but their faces are exposed, and they get ugly cuts,
of which they are extremely proud. As it is quite impossible that I should have seen these
duels myself, I will quote from a description sent me by an English friend who was taken to
them in Heidelberg by a corps student. "They take place," he says, "in a large bare room with
a plain boarded floor. There were tables, each to hold ten or twelve persons, on three sides
of the room, and a refreshment counter on the fourth side, where an elderly woman and one or
two girls were serving wine. The wine was brought to the tables, and the various corps sat
at their special tables, all drinking and smoking. The dressing and undressing and the sewing
up of wounds was done in an adjoining room. When the combatants were ready they were led in
by their seconds, who held up their arms one on each side. The face and the top of the head
were exposed, but the body, arms and neck were heavily bandaged. The duellists are placed opposite
each other, and the seconds, who also have swords in their hands, stand one on each side, ready
to interfere and knock up the combatant's sword. They say 'Auf die Mensur', and then the slashing
begins. As soon as blood is drawn the seconds interfere, and the doctor examines the cut. If
it is not bad they go on fighting directly. If it needs sewing up they go into the next room,
and you wait an endless time for the next party. I got awfully tired of the long intervals,
sitting at the tables, drinking and smoking. While the fights were going on we all stood round
in a ring. There were only about three duels the whole morning. There was a good deal of blood
on the floor. The women at the refreshment counter were quite unconcerned. They didn't trouble
to look on, but talked to each other about blouses like girls in a post office. The students
drove out to the inn and back in open carriages. It is a mile from Heidelberg. The duels are
generally as impersonal as games, but sometimes they are in settlement of quarrels. I think
any student may come and fight on these occasions, but I suppose he has to be the guest of
a corps."

A German professor lecturing on university life constantly used a word I did not understand
at first. The word as he said it was Commang, with a strong accent on the second syllable.
The word as it is written is Comment, and means the etiquette set up and obeyed by the students.
The Germans have taken many French words into their language and corrupted them, much as we
have ourselves: sometimes by Germanising the pronunciation, sometimes by conjugating a French
verb in the German way as they do in raisonniren and geniren. The Commang, said the professor,
was a highly valuable factor in a young man's education, because it helped more than anything
else to turn a schoolboy into a man of the world. So when I saw a little book called Der Bier
Comment for sale I bought it instantly, for I wanted to know how beer turned a schoolboy into
a man of the world. It began with a little preface, a word of warning to anyone attempting
to write about the morals, customs, and characteristics of the German nation. No one undertaking
this was to forget that the Germans had an amazing Bierdurst, and that they liked to assuage
this thirst in company, to be cheerful and easy, and to sing while they were drinking. Then
it goes on to give the elaborate ceremonial observed at the Kneiptafel. One of my dictionaries,
although the German-English part has 2412 pages, translates Kneipe as "any instrument for pinching."
I never yet found anything I wanted in those 2412 pages. Another dictionary, one that cost
ninepence, and is supposed to give you all words in common use, does not include Kneipe at
all. As an instrument for pinching, Kneipe is certainly not common, except possibly amongst
people who use tools. As a word for a sort of beer club it is as common as beer. It is not
only students who go to the Kneipe. In some parts of Germany men spend most of the evening
drinking beer and smoking with their friends, while the womenfolk are by themselves or with
the children at home. But the beer Commang that the professor thought had such educational
value is the name for certain intricate rites practised by university students at the Kneiptafel.
Those who sit at the table are called Beer Persons, and they are of various ranks according
to the time of membership and their position in the Kneipe. Every Beer Person must drink beer
and join in the songs, unless he has special permission from the chairman. The Beer Persons
do not just sit round the table and drink as they please. If they did there would be no Comment,
and I suppose no educational value. They have to invite their fellows to drink with them, and
the quantity drunk, the persons who may have challenged, and the exact number of minutes that
may elapse before a challenge is accepted and returned, is all exactly laid down. Then there
are various festive and ingenious ways of drinking together, so as to turn the orgy into something
like a game. For instance, the glass "goes into the world," that is, it circulates, and any
Beer Person who seizes it with a different hand or different fingers from his neighbour is
fined. Or the glasses are piled one on the top of another while the Beer Persons sing, and
some one man has to drink to each glass in the pile at the word of command. Or the president
orders a "Beer Galop" with the words "Silentium für einen Biergalopp: ich bitte den nötigen
Stoff anzuschaffen." At the word of command everyone, beginning with the president, passes
his glass to his left-hand neighbour and empties the one he receives. Then the glasses are
refilled, passed to the right, and emptied again as soon as possible. The president, it seems,
has to exercise a good deal of discretion and ingenuity, for if the Kneipe seems flat it lies
with him to order the moves in the game that will make it lively and stimulate beer, song,
and conversation. There are various fines and punishments inflicted according to strict rule
on those who transgress the code of the Kneipe, but as far as I can make out they all resolve
themselves into drinking extra beer, singing extra songs, or in really serious cases ceasing
to be a Beer Person for whatever length of time meets the offence. An Englishman who was present
at some of these gatherings in Heidelberg, told me that the etiquette was most difficult for
a foreigner to understand, and always a source of anxiety to him all the evening. He was constantly
invited to drink with various members, and the German responsible for him explained that he
must not only respond to the invitation at the moment, but return it at the right time: not
too soon, because that would look like shaking off an obligation, and not too late, because
that would look like forgetting it.

A Kommers is a students' festival in which the professors and other senior members of a university
take part, and at which outsiders are allowed to look on. The presiding students appear in
vollem Wichs, as we should say in their war paint, with sashes and rapiers. Young and old together
drink beer, sing songs, make speeches, and in honour of one or the other they "rub a Salamander,"--a
word which is said to be a corruption of Sauft alle mit einander. This is a curious ceremony
and of great antiquity. When the glasses are filled, at the word of command they are rubbed
on the table; at the word of command they are raised and emptied; and again at the word of
command every man rubs his glass on the table, the second time raises it and brings it down
with a crash. Anyone who brought his glass down a moment earlier or later than the others would
spoil the Salamander and be in disgrace. In Ekkehardt Scheffel describes a similar ceremonial
in the tenth century. "The men seized their mugs," he says, "and rubbed them three times in
unison on the smooth rocks, producing a humming noise, then they lifted them towards the sun
and drank; each man set down his mug at the same moment, so that it sounded like a single stroke."

A Kommers is not always a gay festival. It may be a memorial ceremony in honour of some great
man lately dead. Then speeches are made in his praise, solemn and sacred music is sung, and
the Salamander, an impressive libation to the dead man's Manes, is drunk with mournful effect.

In small university towns--and it must be remembered that there are twenty-two universities
in Germany--the students play a great part in the social life of the place. German ladies have
often told me that the balls they looked forward to with most delight as girls were those given
by students, when one "corps" would take rooms and pay for music, wine, and lights. For supper,
tickets are issued on such occasions, which the guests pay themselves. The small German universities
seem full of the students in term time, especially in those places where people congregate
for pleasure and not for work. Even in a town as big as Leipsic they are seen a good deal,
filling the pavement, occupying the restaurants, going in gangs to the play. But in Berlin
the German student of tradition, the beer person, the duellist, the rollicking lad with his
big dog, is lost. He is there, you are told, but if you keep to the highway you never see him;
and, to tell the truth, in Germany you miss him. He stands for youth and high spirits and that
world of ancient custom most of us would be loth to lose. In Berlin, if you go to the Universität
when the working day begins, you see a crowd of serious, well-mannered young men, most of them
carrying books and papers. They are swarming like bees to the various lecture-rooms; they are
as quiet as the elderly professors who appear amongst them. They have no corps caps, no dogs,
no scars on their scholarly faces. By their figures you judge that they are not Beer Persons.
They have worked hard for twelve years in the gymnasiums of Germany, they have no idle habits,
no interests so keen as their interest in this business of preparing for the future. They are
the men of next year's Germany, and will carry on their country's reputation in the world for
efficiency and scholarship.

CHAPTER VII

RIEHL ON WOMEN

Not long ago I heard a German professor say that anyone who wanted to speak with authority
about the German family must read Die Familie by W.H. Riehl. He said that, amongst other things,
this important work explained why men went to the Kneipe, because they were fond of home life;
and also what was the sphere of women. I thought it would be useful to have both these points
settled; besides, I asked several wise Germans about the book, and they all nodded their heads
and said it was a good one. So I got it, and was surprised to find it came out in 1854. I thought
ideas about women had advanced since then, even in Germany, though a German friend had warned
me just before my last visit not to expect much in this way. She made a movement with her lips
as if she was blowing a bit of thistledown from her. "Remember," she said, "that is what you
will be directly you get there ... nothing at all." But I had been to Germany so often that
I was prepared to be "nothing at all" for a time, and not to mind it much. What I wanted to
discover was how far German women had arrived at being "something" in the eyes of their men.
In my eyes they had always been a good deal: admirable wives and mothers, for instance, patient,
capable, thrifty, and self-sacrificing. At first I thought that my friend was wrong, and that
women of late years had made great strides in Germany. I met single women who had careers and
homes of their own and were quite cheerful. When you are old enough to look back twenty or
thirty years, and remember the blight there used to be on the "old maid," and the narrow gossiping
life she was driven to lead, you must admit that these contented bachelor women have done a
good deal to emancipate themselves. In England they have been with us for a long time, but
formerly I had not come across them in Germany. On the contrary, I well remember my amazement
as a girl at hearing a sane able-bodied single woman of sixty say she had naturally not ventured
on a summer journey to Switzerland till some man who looked after her money affairs, but was
in no way related, had given her his consent. I did once hear a German boast of having struck
his wife in order to bring her to submission. He was not a navvy either, but a merchant of
good standing. He was not a common type, however. German men, on the whole, treat their womenfolk
kindly, but never as their equals. Over and over again German women have told me they envied
the wives of Englishmen, and I should say that it is impossible for an English woman to be
in Germany without feeling, if she understands what is going on around her, that she has suddenly
lost caste. She is "nothing at all" because she is a woman: to be treated with gallantry if
she is young and pretty, and as a negligible quantity if she is not. That perhaps is a bitter
description of what really takes place, but after reading Herr Riehl, and hearing that his
ideas are still widely accepted in Germany, I am not much afraid of being unjust. His own arguments
convict the men of the nation in a measure nothing I could say would. They are in extreme opposition
to the ideas fermenting amongst modern women there, and the strange fact that they are not
regarded as quite out of date makes them interesting.

Herr Riehl's theory, to put it in a nutshell, is that the family is all-important, and the
individual, if she is a woman, is of no importance at all. He does not object to her being
yoked to a plough, because then she is working for the family, but he would forbid her, if
he could, to enter any profession that would make her independent of the family. She is not
to practise any art, and if she "commences author" it is a sure sign that she is ugly, soured,
and bitter. In any country where they are allowed to rule, and even in any country where they
distinguish themselves in art and literature, civilisation as well as statecraft must be at
a standstill. Queen Elizabeth and Maria Theresa were evidently awkward people for a man laying
down this theory to encounter, so he goes out of his way to say that they were not women at
all, but men in women's clothes. Moreover, he has no doubt that the Salic law must ultimately
prevail everywhere.

A woman has no independent existence: he says she is taught from childhood to be subordinate
to others; she cannot go out by herself with propriety; she is not a complete creature till
she finds a mate. The unlucky women who never find one (more than 400,000 in Germany) are not
to make any kind of career for themselves, either humble or glorious. Each one is to search
carefully for relatives who will give her a corner in their house, and allow her to work for
them. If no one wants her she may live with other women and bring up poor children. He would
allow women some education. Far be it from him to think that women are to remain in compulsory
ignorance. But their education is to be "womanly," and carried on in the family. Women teachers
in public schools he considered a danger to the State, and he would send all girls till they
reach their twelfth or fourteenth year to the elementary schools, where they would be taught
by men and associate with bare-footed children. Woman, in short, is to learn how to be woman
at home, and how not to be superwoman in school. She may even have some instruction in art
and science, but only a limited instruction that will not encroach on her duty to the family.

The fate of lonely single women is much on Herr Riehl's mind. What are we to do with them?
he asks despairingly. "What is to become of the army of innocent creatures, without means,
without a craft, doomed to an aimless, disappointed life. Shall we shut them up in convents?
Shall we buy them into Stifts? Shall we send them to Australia? Shall we put an end to them?"
Quite in the manner of Dogberry, he answers his own questions. Let them go their ways as before,
he says. He knows there is no short cut to social regeneration, and he will not recommend one,
not even extirpation. He points out that the working women of Germany have never asked to be
on an equality with men. The lower you descend in the social scale the less sharply women are
differentiated from men, and the worse time women have in consequence. The wife of a peasant
is only his equal in one respect: she works as hard as he does. Otherwise she is his serf.
The sole public position allowed to a woman in a village is that of gooseherd; while those
original minds who in other circumstances would take to authorship or painting have to wait,
if they are peasants, till they are old, when they can take to fortune-telling and witchcraft.
Herr Riehl admits that the lot of women when they are peasants is not a happy one. He does
not make the admission because he thinks it of much consequence, but because it illustrates
his argument that the less "feminine" women are the less power they exercise. He has no great
fault to find with the peasant's household, where the wife is a beast of burden in the field
and a slave indoors, bears children in quick succession, is old before her time, and sacrifices
herself body and soul to the family. But he points out that on a higher social plane, where
women are more unlike men, more distinctively feminine, the position they take is more honourable.
Yet it is these same "superfeminine" women who are foolishly claiming equality with men.

Herr Riehl's views expressed in English seem a little behind the times, here and there more
than a little brutal. He speaks with sympathy of suttee, and he quotes the Volga-Kalmucks with
approval. This tribe, it seems, "treat their wives with the most exquisite patriarchal courtesy;
but directly the wife neglects a household duty courtesy ceases (for the genius of the house
is more important than the personal dignity of the wife), and the sinner is castigated (wird
tüchtig durchgepeitscht). The whip used, the household sword and sceptre, is handed down from
generation to generation as a sacred heirloom." I have translated this passage instead of alluding
to it, because I thought it was an occasion on which Herr Riehl should literally speak for himself.

It is, however, fair to explain that modern men as well as modern women come under his censure.
All the tendencies and all the habits of modern life afflict him, and he lashes out at them
without discrimination, and with such an entire lack of prophetic insight that I have found
him consoling. For this book was published sixteen years before the Franco-Prussian War, when
Germany, the world must admit, proved that it was not decadent. Yet every page of it is a Jeremiad,
an exhortation to his countryfolk to stop short on the road to ruin. He does not see that the
whole nation is slowly and patiently girding its loins for that mighty effort; he believes
it is blind, weak, and flighty. If he had lived in England, and a little later, he would certainly
have talked about the Smart Set, Foreign Financiers, and the Yellow Press. As he lived in Germany
fifty years ago, he scolds his countryfolk for living in flats. He wants to know why a family
cannot herd in one room instead of scattering itself in several. As for a father who cannot
endure the cry of children, that man should never have been a father, says Herr Riehl. He cannot
approve of the dinner hour being put off till two o'clock. Why not begin work at five and dine
at eleven in the good old German way? He praises the ruinous elaborate festivals that used
to celebrate family events, and considers that the police help to destroy family life by fining
people who in their opinion spend more than they can afford on a wedding or a christening.
He objects to artificial Christmas trees, and points out that other nations set a tree in the
drawing-room, but that Germans have it in the nursery, the innermost sanctum of family life.
He arrives at some curious conclusions when he discusses the German's habit of turning the
beer-house into a sort of club that he calls his Kneipe. Other races can drink, he says; aber
bloss die germanischen können kneipen--only the Germanic peoples can make themselves at home
in an inn. What does the Stammgast, the regular guest, ask but the ways of home? the same chair
every night, the same corner, the same glass, the same wine; and where there is a Stammtisch
the same companions. He sees that family life is more or less destroyed when the men of the
household spend their leisure hours, and especially their evenings, at an inn, but he says
that the homelike surroundings of the Kneipe prove the German's love of home. In fact, he suggests
that even the habitual drunkard is often a weak, amiable creature cut out for family life;
only, he has sought it at the public-house instead of on his own hearth.

Herr Riehl is, in fact, deeply concerned to see amongst his countryfolk a gradual slackening
of family ties, a widespread selfish individualism amongst women, an abdication of duty and
authority amongst men. His views about women sound outrageous to-day, chiefly because he wants
to apply them to all women without distinction; and also because they display a total want
of consideration for the welfare and the wishes of women themselves. But his position is interesting,
because with some modifications it is the position still taken by the majority of German men;
naturally, not by the most advanced and intelligent, but by the average German from the Spree
to the Danube. He thinks that woman was made for man, and that if she has board, lodging, and
raiment, according to the means of her menfolk, she has all she can possibly ask of life. When
her menfolk are peasants, she must work in the fields; when they belong to the middle or upper
classes, her place is in the kitchen and the nursery. Unless he is exceptionally intelligent
he does not understand that this simple rule is complicated by modern economic conditions,
and by the enormous number of women thrown on their own resources. He would send them as Herr
Riehl did, to the kitchens and nurseries of other people; or he would give up the problem in
despair, as Herr Riehl did, admitting with a sigh that modern humanitarianism forbids the establishment
of a lethal chamber for the superfluous members of a weaker sex.

The most modern German women are in direct opposition to Herr Riehl, and it must be said that
some of their leaders are enthusiastic rather than sensible. They are drunk with the freedom
they claim in a country where women are not even allowed to attend a political meeting except
with the express consent of the police. In their ravings against the tyranny of men they lose
all historical sense, just as an American does when he describes a mediæval crime as if it
had been committed by a European with a twentieth-century conscience. They charge men with
keeping half humanity in a degrading state of slavery, and attribute all the sins of civilisation
to the enforced ignorance and helplessness of women. Their contempt for their masters is almost
beyond the German language to express, eloquently as they use it. They demand equality of education
and opportunity, but they do not want to be men. Far be such a desire from their minds. They
mean to be something much better. To what a pass have men brought the world, they ask? How
much better would manners and morals and politics be in the hands of women! They repel with
indignation the taunt that women have no right to govern the State because their bodies are
too weak to defend it. They point out with a gleam of sense and justice that the mother of
children does serve the State in a supremely important way; and for that matter they are willing
to take many State duties on their shoulders, and to train for them as arduously and regularly
as men train for the wretched business of killing each other. They will not mate with those
poor things--modern men--under the existing marriage laws. They refuse to be household beasts
of burden a day longer. Life, life to the dregs with all its joys and all its responsibilities,
is what they want, and love if it comes their way. But not marriage. Young Siegfrieds they
ask for, young lions. Here one bewildered reader rubbed her eyes; for she had just heard Siegfried
and the Götterdämmerung again, and sometimes she reads in the Nibelungenlied; and if ever a
man won a woman with his club, by muscle seemingly, by magic really, but anyhow by sheer bodily
strength, was not that man Siegfried? and was not the woman Brünnhilde? And what does the Siegfried
of the Lied say when his wife has failed to keep a guard on her tongue--

    "Man soll so Frauen ziehen," sprach Siegfried, "der Degen,
    Das sie üppig Reden lassen unterwegen.
    Verbiet es deinem Weibe; der meinen thu' ich's auch.
    Ich schäme mich, wahrlich um solchen übermüthigen Brauch."

And then, just as if he was one of those Volga-Kalmucks admired by Herr Riehl, he beats poor
Kriemhilde black and blue.

    "Das hat mich bald gereuet," so sprach das edle Weib;
    "Auch hat er so zerblaüet deswegen meinen Leib!
    Dass ich es je geredet, beschwerte ihm den Muth:
    Das hat gar wohl gerochen der Degen tapfer und gut."

Yet here is the last development in women, the woman who refuses as an outrage both the theory
of masculine superiority and the fact so evident in Germany of masculine domination, here is
the self-constituted superwoman calling as if she was Eve to the primæval male. It may be perverse
of me, but my imagination refuses to behold them mated.

CHAPTER VIII

THE OLD AND THE NEW

Germany stands midway between France and England in its care for its womenfolk. French parents
consider marriage the proper career for a woman, and with logical good sense set themselves
from the day of a girl's birth to provide a dowry for her. When she is of a marriageable age
they provide the husband. They will make great sacrifices to establish a daughter in prosperity,
and they leave nothing to chance. We leave everything to chance, and the idea of marriage made
by bargain and without love offends us. Such marriages are often enough made in England, but
they are never admitted. Some gloss of sentiment or of personal respect is considered decent.
But on the whole in this country a girl shifts for herself. If she marries, well and good;
if she remains single, well and good too, provided she can earn her living or has means. When
she has neither means nor craft and fails to marry, she is one of the most tragic figures in
our confused social hierarchy, difficult to help, superfluous. She sets her hand to this and
that, but she has no grip on life. To think of her is to invoke the very image of failure and
incompetence. She flocks into every opening, blocking and depressing it; as a "help" she becomes
a byword, for she has grown up without learning to help herself or anybody else. If she is
a Protestant she has no haven. Only people who have set themselves to help poor ladies know
the difficulties of the undertaking, and the miseries their protégées endure.

Even in the Middle Ages the conscientious German was doing more for this helpless element of
his population than England and America are doing to-day. He saw that some of his daughters
would remain unmarried, and that if they were gently bred he must provide for their future,
and he did this by founding Stifte. The old Stift was established by the gentlemen of some
one district, who built a house and contributed land and money for its maintenance, so that
when they died their unmarried daughters should still have a suitable home. Some of these old
Stifte are very wealthy now, and have buildings of great dignity and beauty; they still admit
none but the descendants of the men who founded them, and when they have more money than they
need to support the Stift itself, they use it to pension the widows and endow the brides belonging
to their group or families. In Hesse-Cassel, for instance, there is an ancient Stift formed
by the Ritterschaft of the Duchy and it is so well off that it can afford to pension every
widow and fatherless child, and buy an outfit for every bride whose name either by marriage
or descent entitles her to its protection. The example set by the noble families of the Middle
Ages was followed in time by other classes, and Stifte were established all over Germany for
the daughters of the bourgeoisie. They grew in number and variety; some had a school attached
to their endowment and some an orphanage. In some the rule was elastic, in others binding.
There are Stifte from which a woman may absent herself for the greater part of the year, and
yet draw an income from its funds and have a room or rooms appointed to her use; there are
others where residence is compulsory. Some are only open to descendants of the founders; some
sell vacancies. A woman may have to wait year after year for a chance of getting in; or she
may belong to one that will admit her at a certain age. In many there is a presiding lady,
the Domina or Abbess; and when the present Emperor visited a well-known Stift lately he gave
the Abbess a shepherd's crook with which to rule her flock. Some are just sets of rooms with
certain privileges of light and firing attached. Their constitution varies greatly, according
to the class provided for and the means available. But you cannot be much amongst Germans without
meeting women who have been educated, endowed, helped in sickness, or supported in old age
by one of these organisations. You come across girls of gentle birth but with no means who
have been brought up in a Stift, or you hear of well-to-do girls whose parents have paid high
for their schooling in one. You know the elderly unmarried daughter of an official living on
his pension, and you find that though she has never been taught to earn her bread she looks
forward to old age with serenity, because when she was a child her relations bought her into
a Stift that will give her at the age of fifty free quarters, fire, light, and an income on
which, with her habits of thrift, she can live comfortably. Another woman engaged in private
teaching and a good deal battered by the struggle for life, comes to you some day more radiant
than you have ever seen her, and you find that influential friends have put her case before
a Stift, and that it has granted her two charming rooms with free fire and light. I heard of
a cook the other day who, after many years of faithful service, left her employers to spend
her old age in a Stift. No social stigma attaches to the women living in one, and they are
as free, in some cases as well placed and well born, as the English women living at Hampton
Court. Some friction and some gossip is presumably inevitable wherever women herd together
in an unnatural segregation from men and children. But at any rate the German Stift saves many
a woman from the tragic struggle with old age and poverty to which the penniless incapable
spinster is condemned in our country. It may not be a paradise, but it is a haven. As I said
at the beginning, the Frenchman dowers and marries his girl, the German buys her a refuge,
the Englishman leaves her to fate.

On the whole, the German believes that the woman's province is within the limits of the household.
He wants her to be a home-maker, and in Germany what "he" wants her to be still fixes the standard.
But as the census reveals the existence of large numbers of single women, and as "he" often
has a thoughtful and benevolent mind, more and more is done there every year to prepare those
women who must earn their living to earn it capably. It has been understood for some time past
that Herr Riehl's plan of finding a family roof for every woman without one presents difficulties
where there are 400,000-odd women to provide for in this way. One of the people who first saw
this clearly, and supported every sensible undertaking that came to the assistance of women,
was the Empress Frederick; and one of the institutions that she encouraged and esteemed from
the beginning was the Lette-Verein in Berlin.

The Lette-Verein, named after its originator, Dr. A. Lette, was founded, says its prospectus,
to further the education of women and to increase the efficiency of women dependent on themselves
for support. What it actually does is to train for housekeeping and office work, and for some
trades. Its interest lies in the ordered and thoughtful provision it makes both for the woman
who means to devote herself body and soul to the family; and for the woman who prefers, or
who is driven, to stand in the market-place and compete with men. The Lette-Verein does not
train servants or admit servants to its classes. It occupies a large block of buildings in
the west of Berlin, for its various schools and hostels require a great deal of room. Students
who live in the city can attend daily classes; but those who come from a distance can have
board and residence for £1 a week or less. Once a week strangers are allowed to see the Lette-Haus
at work, and when I went there we were taken first to the kitchens, where the future housewives
of Germany were learning to cook. The stoves were the sensible low closed-in ones used on the
continent, and the vessels were either earthenware or metal, kept brightly polished both inside
and out. The students were preparing and cooking various dishes, but the one that interested
me was the Leipziger Allerlei, because I compared it with the "herbage" an English plain cook
throws into water and sends up half drained, half cold, and often enough half clean. I could
not stop to count the vegetables required for Leipziger Allerlei, but there seemed to be at
least six varieties, all cooked separately, and afterwards combined with a properly made sauce.
The Englishman may say that he prefers his half-cooked cabbage, and the English woman, if she
is a plain cook, will certainly say that the cabbage gives her as much trouble as she means
to take; but the German woman knows that when she marries her husband will want Leipziger Allerlei,
so she goes to the Lette-Haus and learns how to make it. Even the young doctors of Berlin learn
cooking at the Lette-Haus. Special classes for invalid cookery are held on their behalf, and
are said to be popular and extremely useful. Certainly doctors whose work is amongst the poor
or in country places must often wish they understood something about the preparation of food.
The girls who go to the Lette-Haus are taught the whole art of housekeeping, from the proper
way to scour a pan or scrub a floor to fine laundry work and darning, and even how to set and
serve a table. An intelligent girl who had been right through the courses at the Lette-Haus
could train an inexperienced servant, because she would understand exactly how things ought
to be done, how much time they should take, and what amount of fatigue they involve. If her
servants failed her she would be independent of them. Some students at the Lette-Haus do, as
a matter of fact, form a household that is carried on without a single servant, and is on this
account the most interesting branch of the organisation. The girls are from fourteen to sixteen
years of age, and they pay £25 a year for instruction, board, and lodging. Some of them are
the daughters of landed proprietors, and some will eventually earn a living as "supports of
the housewife," an honourable career shortly referred to by Germans as eine Stütze. They were
a happy, healthy looking lot of girls. They wear neat serviceable gowns while they are at work,
aprons, linen sleeves to protect their stuff ones, and pretty blue handkerchiefs tied like
turbans over their hair. Some of them were busy at the wash-tub, and this seemed heavy work
for girls of that age. The various kinds of work are done in turn, and the student when her
washing week comes round is employed in this way three hours every morning. On alternate days
she mangles clothes, and in the afternoons she sews. Our guide would not admit that three hours
at the wash-tub could be too great a strain on a half-developed girl, and it is a question
for medical wisdom to decide. The cooking and ironing looked hot work, but these young German
girls were cheerfully and thoroughly learning how to do them, and whether they marry or stay
single their knowledge of these arts will be of inestimable use in later years. I heard of
an able-bodied Englishwoman the other day who took to her bed in tears because her maids left
her suddenly. She could not have roasted a leg of mutton or made the plainest pudding. This
is the school of the future, said our enthusiastic guide when we went to see the "children"
at work at the Lette-Haus; and I, remembering my helpless Englishwoman, agreed with her. The
children's afternoons are mostly given to needlework, and they are instructed in the prospectus
not to bring new clothes with them, because it is desired that they should learn how to mend
old ones neatly and correctly. They are taught to darn and patch so finely that the repair
cannot easily be discovered; they make sets of body linen for themselves, three finely sewn
men's linen shirts, a gown for work-days, and some elaborate blouses. In another part of the
Lette-Haus, where students were being trained as expert embroiderers and dressmakers, we were
shown pieces of flowered brocade into which patches had been so skilfully inserted that you
could only find them by holding them up to the light. In the bookbinding department there were
amateur and professional students. The professionals apprentice themselves for three years,
and from the first receive a small weekly wage. The length of their apprenticeship is determined
by the length of time prescribed for men, and not by what is necessary for their training.
I asked if they easily found regular work later, and was told that at present the demand for
expert women bookbinders exceeded the supply. The Lette-Haus trains women to be photographers,
printers, and clerks. In fact, with German thoroughness and foresight it does all one big institution
can to save the women of the nation from the curse of incompetence. It turns them out efficient
housewives or efficient craftswomen, according to their needs.

The German woman of to-day has travelled far from the ideal set up by Herr Riehl, and still
upheld by his disciples. Women have found that the realities of life clash with that particular
ideal, and rudely upset it. Just like any man, a woman wants bread when she is hungry, and
when there is no man to give it to her she must raven for it herself. She has been driven from
a family hearth that has no fire on it, and from a family roof that cannot afford her shelter.
On the whole, if I may judge from personal observation, it has done her good. The traditional
old maid is dying out in Germany as assuredly as she is dying out in England, and who shall
regret her? Her outlook was narrow, her temper often soured. She had neither self-reliance
nor charm. She was that sad, silly spectacle, a clinging plant without support. Now that she
is learning to grow on her own account, she finds that there is a good deal in life a sensible
plant can enjoy without clinging. The German "old maid" of the twentieth century has, like
her English sister, transformed herself into a "bachelor," a person who for this reason or
that has not married, and who nevertheless has a cheerful time. She has her own work, she often
has her own flat, and if she lives in one of the big cities she has her own club.

There are at present three Ladies' Clubs in Berlin all flourishing. The subscription to the
Berliner Frauenklub is only six marks a year, yet it provides the members with comfortably
furnished rooms and well cooked meals at low prices. A member of this club can dine for ninepence,
and have a hot dish from fourpence to sevenpence. She has access to a library of 1300 volumes,
to the leading papers and reviews, and to magazines in four languages. She can entertain women
at the club, but not men; though she can meet men there at certain hours of the day. Social
gatherings of various kinds are arranged to meet the various needs and ages of the members;
and one night a week four or five card-tables are set out, so that the older members can have
a quiet game of skat or whist. We wonder what Herr Riehl would say if he could see them.

Another German Ladies' Club in Berlin is the Deutscher Frauenklub, and it is nicknamed the
Millionaire's Club because the subscription is twenty-five shillings. It is a rather smarter
club than the other, and has a charming set of rooms. There are about 450 members. The Third
Club is a branch of the London Lyceum, and it has aroused great interest and attention in Berlin,
not only because it is on a more magnificent scale than the other clubs, but because of the
brave effort it makes to unite the women of all nations and help them. Most of the women distinguished
in art and literature have joined it.

I began this chapter by saying something of the Stift, the refuge for unmarried women that
Germany established in the Middle Ages and still preserves. I end it with the Lyceum Club,
that latest manifestation of a modern woman's desire to help her own sex. The character of
these institutions and their history are both significant. In other days men helped women;
in these days women try to help themselves. The Stift gives a woman bread and shelter in idleness;
the aim of the Lyceum Club is not to give, but to bring women together and to encourage good
work. The Stifte are still crowded and the Lyceum flourishes, for in our time the old woman
jostles the new. But the new woman has arrived, and is making herself felt; with amazing force
and swiftness, you must admit when you reflect on the position of women in Germany thirty or
forty years ago.

CHAPTER IX

GIRLHOOD

In the Memoiren einer Idealistin, those genuine and interesting Memoirs that have been so widely
read in Germany of late, Malvida von Meysenbug, the daughter of a highly placed official at
a small German Court, describes her confirmation day and the long period of preparation and
the spiritual struggle that preceded it.

"During a whole year my sister and I went twice a week to the pastor's house to be instructed
in the dogma of the Protestant Church," she says.... "The ceremony was to be on Sunday. The
Friday before we had our last lesson. Our teacher was deeply moved; with tears in his eyes
he spoke to us of the holiness and importance of the act we were about to perform.... According
to the German custom amongst girls of the better classes, we put on black silk dresses for
the first time for our confirmation, and this ceremonial attire calmed me and did me good.
Our maid took special pains with our toilet, as if we were going to a worldly entertainment,
and chattered more than usual. It jarred on me, but it helped to distract my thoughts. When
it was time to start I said Good-bye to my mother with deep emotion, and asked her to forgive
me my faults. My sister and I were to go to the pastor's house on our way to church. There
we found everything strewn with flowers. Our teacher received us in his priestly robes, and
spoke to all of us so lovingly and earnestly that the most indifferent were moved. When the
church bells began to peal our procession set out, the pastor at its head, and we following
two by two. The way from the rectory to the church was strewn with flowers, and the church
was decked with them. The Choral Society of the town, to which some of our best friends belonged,
received us with a beautiful hymn. I felt on wings, I prayed to God that this hour might be
blessed to me throughout my life. The sermon preached by the voice that had so often affected
me made me calm. When the preacher required us to make our confession of faith, I uttered my
'Yes' with firm assurance. Then I knelt before him with the rest to receive his blessing. He
put his hands on our heads, accepted us as members of the Protestant Church, and blessed each
one separately, and with a special verse from the Bible. To me he said, 'Be thou faithful unto
death, and I will give thee a crown of life.' My heart echoed the solemn vow: Faithful unto
death. The choir greeted the young Christians with a song of victory. We did not return to
the seats reserved for candidates, but sat with our parents and relatives waiting with them
until everyone had left the church, except those who wished to partake of the Holy Communion."

Malvida von Meysenbug is too much absorbed in her intense spiritual experiences to describe
the lighter side of confirmation in Germany, which celebrates it with presents and a gathering
of friends. A girl gets her first black silk gown for the occasion, and both boys and girls
get as many presents as they do at Christmas or on a birthday. These are all set out for the
inspection of the friends who assemble at the house after the religious ceremony, to congratulate
the parents and the youngest member of their church. There is an entertainment of coffee, chocolate,
and cakes; and a few days later both boys and girls return these visits of congratulation in
the company of their parents. Some years ago, when a girl had been confirmed, she was considered
officially grown up and marriageable, and entered straight away into the gaieties that are
supposed to lead to marriage. But the modern tendency in Germany is to prolong girlhood, and
the wife of sixteen is as rare there amongst the educated classes as it is here.

Amongst the Jews in Germany marriages are still arranged for the young people by their elders;
often, as in France, through the intervention of friends, but also by the business-like office
of the marriage broker. It need hardly be said, perhaps, that the refined and enlightened Jews
refuse to marry in this way. They insist on choosing their own mate, and even on overlooking
some disparity of fortune. Unorthodox Jews marry Christian women, and the Jewish heiress constantly
allies herself and her money with a title or a uniform. In the latter case, however, the nuptials
are just as business-like as if the Schadchan had arranged them and received his commission.
The Graf or the Major gets the gold he lacks, and the rich Jewess gets social prestige or the
nearest approach to it possible in a Jew-baiting land. An ardent anti-Semite told me that these
mixed marriages were not fertile, and that if only everyone of Jewish blood would marry a Christian,
the country would in course of time be cleared of a race that, she solemnly assured me, is
as great a curse to it, and as inferior as the negro in America. But as she was an anti-Semite
with a sense of humour she admitted that the remedy was a slow one and difficult to enforce.
As a matter of fact, the Jews marry mostly amongst themselves in Germany, and men are still
living in Frankfurt and other large cities who have made comfortable fortunes by the brokerage
they charged on their matchmaking. Formerly a prosperous unmarried Jew used to be besieged
by offers from these agents; and so were men who could give their daughters a good dowry. The
better-class Jews do not employ them nowadays, but their marriages are suggested and arranged
much as marriages are in France. A young merchant of Berlin thinks it is time to settle down,
or perhaps wants a little capital to enlarge his business. He consults an uncle in Frankfurt.
The uncle tells his old friend, the father of several daughters, that the most handsome, industrious,
and accomplished man the world has ever seen, his own nephew, in fact, thinks of marriage,
and that his conditions are this and that; he tells his nephew that the most beautiful and
amiable creature in Germany, a brilliant musician, a fluent linguist, a devoted daughter, and
a person of simple housewifely tastes, lives next door to him, the uncle. Except for the housewifely
tastes, it sounds, and in fact is, rather like a courtship in the Arabian Nights so far. The
prince hears of the princess, and without having seen her sets out to seek her hand. The young
merchant pays a flying visit to Frankfurt, is presented to the most beautiful creature in Germany,
finds her passable, has a talk to her father as business-like as a talk between two solicitors,
proposes, is accepted, and at once becomes the most ardent lover the world has ever seen.

Amongst Christians marriages are certainly not arranged for girls in this matter-of-course
way, and so "old maids" abound. Girls without money have far less chance of marriage in Germany
than in England, where young people mate as they please and where a man expects to support
his wife entirely; while the spectacle, quite common here, of girls with a good deal of money
remaining single from various reasons, sometimes actually from want of opportunity to marry,
this every-day occurrence amongst the English better classes is unknown on the continent. In
her powerful novel Aus guter Familie, Gabrielle Reuter describes the life of a German girl
whose parents cannot give her a dowry, and who is doomed in consequence to old maidhood and
to all the disappointments, restrictions, and humiliations of unsought women. While women look
to marriage and nothing else for happiness, there must be such lives in every monogamous country,
where they outnumber the men; but in England a woman's marriage is much more a matter of chance
and charm than of money. If she is poor and misses her chance she is worse off than the German,
for she has no Stift provided for her; but if she is attractive she is just as likely to marry
without a fortune as with one. Those German women who consider their ideas "progressive" have
taken up a new cry of late, a cry about every woman's "right" to motherhood; but they do not
seem to have found a satisfactory way of securing this right to the 400,000 women who outnumber
the men. One learned professor wrote a pamphlet advocating polygamy, but his proposal did not
have the success he no doubt felt it deserved. The women who discuss these questions, in magazines
they edit and mostly write themselves, said that his arguments were all conducted from the
man's point of view, and were most reprehensible. Their own chief aim at present is to protect
the mothers of illegitimate children, and this seems a natural and proper thing for the women
of any community to do. Otherwise they are not a united body. There are moderates and immoderates
amongst them, and as I am a moderate myself in such matters, I think those who go all lengths
are lunatics. It makes one open one's eyes to go to Germany to-day with one's old-fashioned
ideas of the German Frau, and hear what she is doing in her desire to reform society and inaugurate
a new code of morals. She does not even wait till she is married to speak with authority. On
the contrary, she says that marriage is degrading, and that temporary unions are more to the
honour and profit of women. "Dear Aunt S.," I heard of one girl writing to a venerable relative,
"I want you to congratulate me on my happiness. I am about to be united with the man I love,
and we shall live together (in freier Ehe) till one of us is tired of it." A German lady of
wide views and worldly knowledge told me a girl had lately sent her a little volume of original
poems that she could only describe as unfit for publication; yet she knew the girl and thought
her a harmless creature. She was presumably a goose who wanted to cackle in chorus. This same
lady met another girl in the gallery of an artist who belonged to what Mr. Gilbert calls the
"fleshly school." "Ah!" said the girl to my friend, "this is where I feel at home." One of
these immoderates, on the authority of Plato, recommended at a public meeting that girls should
do gymnastics unclothed. Some of them are men-haters, some in the interests of their sex are
all for free love. None of them accept the domination of men in theory, so I think that the
facts of life in their own country must often be unpleasantly forced on them. I discussed the
movement, which is a marked one in Germany at present, with two women whose experience and
good sense made their opinion valuable. But they did not agree. One said that the excesses
of these people were the outcome of long repression, and would wear out in time. The other
thought the movement would go on and grow; which was as much as to say that she thought the
old morals were dead. Undoubtedly they are dead in some sets in Germany to-day. You hear of
girls of good family who have asserted their "right to motherhood" without marriage; and you
hear of other girls who refuse to marry because they will not make vows or accept conditions
they consider humiliating. These views do not attract large numbers; probably never will. But
they are sufficiently widespread to express themselves in many modern essays, novels, and pamphlets,
and even to support several magazines. The women holding them are of various types and quality,
and are by no manner of means agreed with each other; while those women who are working steadily
and discreetly for the progress of their sex condemn the extreme party, and consider them a
check on all real advancement.

The German girl, then, is not always the simple creature tradition paints her. At any rate
she reads novels and sees plays that would have been forbidden to her mother. Nevertheless
she is as a rule just as happy as a girl should be when the man of her dreams asks her to marry
him. In other days a proposal of marriage was a ceremonial in Germany. A man had to put on
evening dress for the occasion, and carry a bouquet with him. "Oh yes," said a German friend
of mine, "this is still done sometimes. A little while ago a cousin of mine in Mainz was seen
coming home in evening dress by broad daylight carrying his bouquet. The poor fellow had been
refused." But in these laxer times a man is spared such an ordeal. It is more usual in Germany
than in England to speak to a girl's father before proposing to her, but even this is not invariable
nowadays. Young people make their own opportunities. "Last year my brother proposed to his
present wife in the woods near Baden while they gathered Waldmeister," said a young German
to a girl he ardently admired. "It will be in flower next week, and your parents have just
arranged that I may meet them at the Alte Schloss in time for dinner. After dinner we will
walk in the woods--nicht wahr?" But the girl, as it happened, did not wish to receive a proposal
of marriage from this young man, so she took care not to walk in the woods and gather Waldmeister
with him. It is often said that the sexes herd separately in Germany, and do not meet each
other much. But this always seems to me one of the things said by people who have looked at
Germans and not lived amongst them. A nation that has such an intimate home life, and is on
the whole poor, receives its friends in an intimate informal way. Young men have different
occupations and interests from girls, but when they are admitted to a family they are often
admitted on terms of easy friendship. In London you may ask a young man with others to dinner
at intervals, and never get to know him; in Berlin you ask him without others to supper, and
soon get to know him very well. Besides, a German cannot endure life long without an Ausflug
or a Landpartie, and when the family plans one it includes one or two of its friends.

When two Germans do get engaged they let their world know of it. A betrothal there is not the
informal flimsy contract it often is with us. They begin by publishing the event in their newspapers,
and sending round printed forms announcing it to their friends. In the newspaper the announcement
is rather bare compared with the advertisement of other family events. "Engaged. Frl. Martha
Raekelwitz mit Hrn. Ingenieur Julius Prinz Dresden-Hamburg" is considered sufficient. But the
printed intimations sent round on gilt-edged paper or cardboard to the friends of the contracting
parties are more communicative. On one side the parents have the honour to announce the engagement
of their daughter Anna to Mr. So-and-So, and on the other side Mr. So-and-So announces his
engagement to Miss Anna. Here is a reproduction of such a form, with nothing altered except
the actual names and addresses. On the left-hand side of the double sheet of cartridge paper
the parents of the Braut have their say--

     "Die Verlobung ihrer Tochter Pauline mit Herrn Referendar Dr.
     jur. Heinrich Schmidt in Berlin beehren sich ergebenst
     anzuzeigen.

                          Geh. Regierungsrat Dr. EUGEN BRAND
                              Königl. Gymnasialdirektor und
                              FRAU HELENE, geb. ENGEL

STUTTGART, im Juni 1906
    Tiergarten 7"

Then on the opposite page the future bridegroom speaks for himself--

     "Meine Verlobung mit Fräulein Pauline Brand, Tochter des
     Königl. Gymnasialdirektors Herrn Geh. Regierungsrat Dr. Eugen
     Brand und seiner Frau Gemahlin Helene, geb. Engel, in
     Stuttgart, beehre ich mich ergebenst anzuzeigen.

                                   Dr. jur. HEINRICH SCHMIDT
                                           Referendar

BERLIN, im Juni 1906
    Kurfürstendamm 2000"

Directly these forms have been circulated, all the friends who have received one and live near
enough pay a visit of congratulation to the bride's parents, and soon after the betrothed couple
return these visits with some ceremony. It is quite impossible, by the way, to talk of Germans
who are officially engaged without calling them the bride and bridegroom. They plight their
troth with the plain gold rings that will be their wedding rings, and this stage of their union
is celebrated with as much ceremony and merrymaking as the actual wedding. The Germans are
giving up so many of their quaint poetical customs that the girl of to-day probably wears a
fine diamond engagement ring instead of the old-fashioned gold one. But the ring with which
her mother and grandmother plighted their troth was the ring with which they were wedded, and
when Chamisso wrote Du Ring an meinem Finger he was not writing of diamonds. All the tenderness
and poetry of Germany go out to lovers, and the thought of a German bride and bridegroom flashes
through the mind with thoughts of flowers and moonlight and nightingales. At least, it does
if you can associate them with the poems of Heine and Chamisso, with the songs of Schumann,
and with the caressing intimate talk of the German tongue unloosed by love. But your experience
is just as likely to play you the unkindest trick, and remind you of German lovers whose uncouth
public endearments made everyone not to the manner born uncomfortable.

When the bride and bridegroom live in the same town, and know a large number of people, they
are overdone with festivities from the moment of betrothal to the day of marriage. The round
of entertainments begins with a gala dinner given by the bride's father, and this is followed
by invitations from all the relatives and friends on either side. When you receive a German
Brautpaar they should be the guests of honour, and if you can hang garlands near them so much
the better. You must certainly present the Braut with a bouquet at some stage of the proceedings,
and you will give pleasure if you can manufacture one or two mottoes in green stuff and put
them in conspicuous places. For instance, I knew of a girl who got engaged away from home.
Do you suppose that she was allowed to return to a bare and speechless front door as her English
cousin would? Nothing of the kind. The whole family had set to work to twine laurel wreaths
and garlands in her honour, and she was received with Wilkommen du glückseliges Kind done in
ivy leaves by her grandmother. It was considered very rührend and innig. At some time during
the engagement the betrothed couple are sure to get photographed together, and anyone who possesses
a German family album will bear me out that the lady is nearly always standing, while her bearded
lover is sitting down. When they are both standing they are arm in arm or hand in hand. I remember
a collection possessing two photographs of a married daughter with her husband. One had been
taken just before the wedding in the orthodox pose; he in an easy chair and she standing meekly
by his side: the other represented them a year after marriage, when Heaven had sent them twins.
They were both standing then, and they each had a baby in a Steckkissen in their arms.

If the bridegroom is not living in the same town with his bride her life is supposed to run
rather quietly in his absence. She is not expected to dance with other men, for instance; but
rather to spend her time in embroidering his monogram on every conceivable object he might
use: on tobacco pouches, or slippers, on letter cases, on braces, on photograph frames, on
luggage straps, on fine pocket handkerchiefs. If she is expert and possesses the true sentiment
she will embroider things for him with her hair. In these degenerate days she does not make
her own outfit. Formerly, when a German girl left school she began to make stores of body and
house linen for future years. But in modern cities the Braut gets everything at one of the
big "white" shops, from her own laces and muslins to the saucepan holders for the kitchen,
and the bread bags her cook will hang outside the flat for the baker's boy. In Germany it is
the bride, or rather her parents, who furnish the house and provide the household linen; and
the linen is all embroidered with her initials. This custom extends to all classes, so that
you constantly hear of a servant who is saving up for her Aussteuer, that is, the furniture
and linen of a house as well as her own clothes. If you ask whether she is engaged you are
told that the outfit is the thing. When the money for that is there it is easy to provide the
bridegroom. In higher spheres much more is spent on a bride's trousseau than in England, taking
class for class. Some years ago I had occasion to help in the choice of a trousseau bought
in Hamburg, and to be often in and out of a great "white ware" business there. I cannot remember
how many outfits were on view during those weeks, but they were all much alike. What some people
call "undies" had been ordered in immense quantities, sometimes heavily trimmed with Madeira
work, sometimes with a plain scollop of double linen warranted to wash and wear for ever. The
material was also invariably of a kind to wear, a fine linen or a closely woven English longcloth.
How any one woman could want some six dozen "nighties" (the silly slang sounds especially silly
when I think of those solid highly respectable German garments) was a question no one seemed
to ask. The bride's father could afford six dozen; it was the custom to have six dozen if you
could pay for them, and there they were. The thin cambric garments French women were beginning
to wear then were shown to you and tossed contemptuously aside as only fit for actresses. But
this has all been changed. If you ask for "undies" in Berlin to-day, a supercilious shoplady
brings you the last folly in gossamer, decolletée, and with elbow sleeves; and you wonder as
you stare at it what a sane portly German housewife makes of such a garment. In this, as in
other things, instead of abiding by his own sensible fashions, the German is imitating the
French and the Americans; for it is the French and the Americans who have taught the women
of other nations to buy clothes so fragile and so costly that they are only fit for the purse
of a Chicago packer.

When the outfit is ready and the wedding day near, the bride returns all the entertainments
given in her honour by inviting her girl friends to a Bride-chocolate or a Bean-coffee. This
festivity is like a Kaffee-Klatsch, or what we should call an afternoon tea. In Germany, until
quite lately, chocolate and coffee were preferred to tea, and the guests sat round a dining-table
well spread with cakes. At a Bean-coffee the cake of honour had a bean in it, and the girl
who got the bean in her slice would be Braut before the year was out. Another entertainment
that takes place immediately before the marriage is given by the bride's best friend, who invites
several other girls to help her weave the bridal wreath of myrtle. The bride does not help
with it. She appears with the bridegroom later in the afternoon when the wreath is ready.

    Lavendel, Myrt' und Thymian
    Das wächst in meinen Garten;
    Wie lang bleibt doch der Freiersmann?
    Ich kann es kaum erwarten.

    Sie hat gesponnen sieben Jahr
    Den goldnen Flachs am Rocken;
    Die Schleier sind wie Spinnweb klar,
    Und grün der Kranz der Locken.

    Und als der schmucke Freier kam,
    War'n sieben Jahr verronnen:
    Und weil sie der Herzliebste nahm
    Hat sie den Kranz gewonnen."

The bridegroom receives a buttonhole, but no one sings him a song. In the opera he is not on
the stage during the bridesmaids' chorus. I have not been able to find out whether the quaint
pretty verses are by Friedrich Kind, who founded the libretto of the opera on a story by August
Apel, or whether he borrowed them from an older source. German brides wore myrtle and their
friends wove a wedding wreath for them long before 1820, when Der Freischütz appeared.

CHAPTER X

MARRIAGES

"He was a pompous, stiff-jointed man," said my friends, "an official in a small town, who would
go to the stake rather than break the letter of the law. But when he came to Berlin to attend
a niece's marriage he thought he would have some fun. He arrived late on Polterabend, and he
brought with him an enormous earthenware crock. Instead of ringing he hurled the crock against
the outside door of the flat, so that it smashed to atoms with a noise like thunder. The inhabitants
of that flat came forth like a swarm of bees, but they were not laughing at the fun, because
it was not their Polterabend." He had broken crockery on the wrong floor.

In cities this ancient German custom of breaking crockery at the bride's door on Polterabend
(the night before the wedding) has died out, but it has not long been dead. I have talked with
people who remembered it in full force when they were young. I believe that the idea was to
appease the Poltergeist, who would otherwise vex and disturb the young couple. My dictionary,
the one that has 2412 pages, says that a Poltergeist is a "racketing spectre," probably what
we who are not dictionary makers would call a hobgoblin. In Brands' Antiquities I find reference
to this old custom at the marriage of a Duke of York in Germany, when great quantities of glass
and china were smashed at the palace doors the night before the wedding.

Polterabend is still celebrated by Germans, although they no longer consider it polite to smash
crockery. There is always a large entertainment, sometimes at the bride's house, sometimes
at the house of a near relative; there are theatricals with personal allusions, or recitations
of home-made topical poetry, some good music, and the inevitable evergreens woven into sentiments
of encouragement and congratulation. The bride's presents are set out much as they are in England,
and perhaps class for class more valuable presents are given in Germany than in England. Electro-plate,
for instance, was considered impossible a few years ago. A wedding present, if it was silver
at all, must be real silver. But it is not so much the custom as with us to give presents of money.

The civil marriage takes place either the day before or early on the same day as the religious
ceremony. The bride used to wear black silk, and still wears a dark plain costume for this
official function. Her parents go with her and the necessary witnesses. The religious ceremony
often used to take place in the house, but that is no longer customary. The anonymous author
of German Home Life, a book published and a good deal read in 1879, says that marriage is a
troublesome and expensive ceremony in Germany, and that this accounts for the large number
of illegitimate children. Mr. O. Eltzbacher, the author of Modern Germany published in 1905,
confirms what was said in 1877 as to the number of illegitimate children born in Germany and
Austria, for he says that in Germany itself they are 9 per cent., while in those districts
of Austria where the Germans form about nine-tenths of the population, from 20 per cent, to
40 per cent, of the children are born out of wedlock. In France statistics give 9 per cent.,
in Scotland 7.4 per cent., and in England and Wales 4.2 per cent. Nevertheless in modern Germany
children are not illegitimate because their parents are too poor to pay their marriage fees.
The civil marriage is obligatory everywhere, and costs nothing. The religious ceremony need
cost nothing at all. In the porch of every church in Prussia there is a notice stating on which
days Freie Trauungen are conducted. Several couples are married at the same time, but they
have the full liturgy and the marriage sermon. A small charge is made for the organist and
for the decoration of the church. A friend whose husband has a large poor parish in Berlin
tells me that the Social Democrats object to the religious ceremony, and will stand guard outside
the house on the day of the civil marriage, to make sure that the newly made husband and wife
do not leave together to go to church. Sometimes an artisan will wait a fortnight after the
civil ceremony before he ventures to have the religious one. Every artisan in Berlin has to
belong to the Sozialdemokratischer Verband, because if he did not his fellow-workmen would
destroy his tools and ruin his chances of work. Apparently they interfere with his private
affairs as well.

The marriage service is not to be found in the prayer-book Germans take to church, but I have
both read it and listened to it. The vows made are much the same as here; but in Germany great
importance is attached to the homily or marriage sermon. This is often long and heavy. I have
heard the pastor preach to the young couple for nearly half an hour about their duties, and
especially about the wife's duty of submission and obedience. His victims were kept standing
before him the whole time, and the poor little bride was shaking from head to foot with nervousness
and excitement. In some cities the carriage used by a well-to-do bride and bridegroom is as
big as a royal coach, and upholstered with white satin, and on the wedding day decorated inside
and out with garlands of flowers. The bridegroom fetches his bride in this coach, and enters
the church with her. When a pretty popular girl gets married all her admirers send flowers
to the church to decorate it. The bride and bridegroom exchange rings, for in Germany men as
well as women wear a plain gold wedding ring, and it is always worn on the right hand. The
bridegroom and all the male guests wear evening dress and silk hats. The women wear evening
clothes too, and no hats. The bride wears the conventional white silk or satin and a white
veil, but her wreath must be partly of myrtle, for in Germany myrtle is the bride's emblem.

After the wedding dinner the bride slips away unnoticed and changes her gown, and is presently
joined by the bridegroom, but not by any of the guests. No rice and no old slippers are thrown
in Germany, and no crowd of friends assembles to see the young pair start. The bride bids her
parents farewell, and slips away with her husband unseen and unattended. After the wedding
dinner there is often dancing and music.

A hundred years ago wedding festivities lasted for many days after the wedding, and the bride
and bridegroom did not go till they were over. When the celebrated and much married Caroline
Schlegel married her first husband, George Böhmer, in 1784, the ceremony took place at her
own home in Göttingen, where her father was a well-known professor. "It would be unnatural
if a young wife did not begin with an account of her wedding day," she says in one of her letters.
"Mine was delightful enough. Böhmer breakfasted with me, and the morning hours passed gaily,
and yet with quietness. There was no trepidation--only an intercourse of souls. My brother
came. We were together till four, and when he left us he gave us his blessing with tears....
Lotte and Friederike wove the bridal wreath.... Then I had a talk with my father and dressed
myself.... Meanwhile those dear Meiners sent me a note, with which were some garters they had
embroidered themselves. Several of my friends wrote to me, and last of all I got a silhouette,
painted on glass, of Lotte and Friederike weaving my bridal wreath. When I was dressed I was
a pretty bride. The room was charmingly decorated by my mother. Soon after four o'clock Böhmer
arrived, and the guests, thirty-eight in number. Thank Heaven, there were no old uncles and
aunts, so the company was of a more bearable type than is usual on such occasions. I stood
there surrounded by my girl friends, and my most vivid thought was of what my condition would
be if I did not love the man before me. My father, who was still far from well, led me to the
clergyman, and I saw myself for life at Böhmer's side and yet did not tremble. During the ceremony
I did not cry. But after it was over and Böhmer took me in his arms with every expression of
the deepest love, while parents, brothers, sisters, and friends greeted me with kind wishes
as never a bride was greeted before, my brother being quite overwhelmed--then my heart melted
and overflowed out of sheer happiness."

A week later Caroline and her husband are still at Göttingen, and still celebrating their marriage.
At one house, under pretence of the heat, the bride was led into the garden, and beheld there
an illuminated motto: "Happy the man who has a virtuous wife: his life will be doubly long."
Another friend arrayed her son as Hymen, and taught him to strew flowers in Caroline's path,
leading her thus to an arbour where there was a throne of moss and flowers, with high steps
ascending to it, a canopy and a triumphal arch. Concealed behind a bush were musicians, who
sang an appropriate song, while the bride and bridegroom mounted the throne and sank in each
other's arms before a crowd of sympathising and tearful spectators.

This took place more than a hundred and twenty years ago, but I have in my possession what
I can only describe as the "literature" of a marriage celebrated three years ago between a
North and a South German, both belonging to commercial families of old standing; and it supplies
me, if I needed it, with documentary evidence that Germans enjoy now what they enjoyed then.
The marriage took place in winter and from a flat, so that the bride's friends could not build
grottoes or hide musicians behind a bush; but for weeks before both sides of the family must
have been busy composing the poems sung at the wedding feast, the music that accompanied them,
and the elaborate humorous verses containing allusions to the past history of the bride and
bridegroom. To begin with, there is a dainty book of picture postcards, the first one giving
portraits of a very handsome and dignified bridegroom with his dainty bride. Then there is
a view of Dresden where the bridegroom was born, another of the Rhenish town in which he found
his bride, and one of Berlin where she used to stay with a married sister and deal "baskets"
right and left to would-be admirers. In Germany, when a girl refuses a man she is said to give
him a "basket," and a favourite old figure in the cotillon used to put one in a girl's hands
and then present two men to her. She danced with the one she liked best, and the rejected man
had to dance round after them with the basket.

Besides the book of postcards, each guest at this wedding was presented with printed copies
of the Tafel-Lieder composed by members of the family. One of these has eight verses and each
verse has eight lines. It relates little events in the life of the bridegroom from babyhood
onwards. You learn that he was a clever child, that he lived at home with his mother instead
of going abroad to learn his work, that when he was young he ardently desired to go on the
stage, that he is a fine gymnast and musician, but that he needs a wife because he is a dreamy
person capable of putting on odd boots. Another Tafel-Lied describes the courtship step by
step, and even the assistance given by the poet's wife to bring the romance to its present
happy conclusion.

    "At last Frau Sophie stirred in the affair,
    Her eyes had pierced to his heart's desire,
    With fine diplomacy she coaxed Miss Clare
    To own her maiden heart was set on fire.
    On all the words and sighs there follow deeds:
    He comes, he woos her, and at last succeeds."

The songs are not all sentiment. They are jocular, and contain puns and play upon names. Three
out of the five end with an invitation to everyone to raise their glasses with a Hoch to the
married pair. This is done over and over again at German weddings, and as all the guests want
to clink glasses with the bride and bridegroom, there is a good deal of movement as well as
noise. Besides the Tafel-Lieder, each of which made a separate booklet with its own dedication
and illustration, every guest received an elaborate book of samples: samples of the various
straws used that summer for ladies' hats. The bridegroom's family had manufactured hats for
many generations; they were wealthy, highly considered people, and extremely proud of their
position in their own industry. I am sure that when an Englishman in the same trade and of
the same standing gets married, the last thing that would be mentioned at his wedding would
be hats. It would be considered in the highest degree indecorous. But the German is still guileless
enough to be satisfied with his station in life when it is sufficiently honourable and prosperous,
and for this wedding two little nieces had prepared this card of samples and composed a rhyme
for each different colour--

    "Wie ist doch der Onkel hoch beglückt
    Das Tantchen heute der 'Brautkranz' schmückt"

went with "myrtle green."

    "Liebe Gäste, mit Genuss,
    Wollet alle Euch erheben--
    Hoch das Brautpaar--
        Es soll leben!"

went with the "champagne" straw at the end; and one accompanying the "silver" straw contained
an allusion to the "silver" wedding twenty-five years hence, when the bride's golden hair would
be silver-grey.

Here is the menu, mostly in French, to which all the Tafel-Lieder were sung, and all the toasts
drunk and congratulatory speeches made. You will observe that it is none of your light cup,
cake, and ice entertainments that you have substituted for the solid old wedding breakfast
in this country.

HOCHZEITS-TAFEL.

Caviar-Schnitten Potage Douglas Saumon-S^{ce} Bernaise Pommes Naturelles Selle de Chevreuil
à la Chipolata Ris de Veau en demi Deuil Poularde Salade & Compote Asperges en Branches S^{ce}
Mousseline Glace Napolitaine Patisserie Fruits & Dessert Fromage

Scharzberger Mousseux 1900er Caseler 1896er St. Emilion

1890er Schloss Johannisberg

Moet et Chandon
  White Star

And that no guest should depart hungry--

Kaltes Abendbrot Bier

Germans celebrate both silver and golden weddings with as much ceremony and rejoicing as the
first wedding. The husband and wife receive presents from all their friends, and entertain
them according to the best of their circumstances. Children will travel across the world and
bring grandchildren with them to one of these anniversaries, and they are of course a great
occasion for the topical poetry, theatricals, and tableaux that Germans enjoy. If the grandmother
by good luck has saved a gown she wore as a girl, and the grandchild can put it on and act
some little episode from the old lady's youth, everyone will applaud and enjoy and be stirred
to smiles and tears. There is as much feasting as at a youthful wedding, and perhaps more elaborate
performances. Silver-grey is considered the proper thing for the silver bride to wear.

It seems like a want of sentiment to speak of divorce in the same breath with weddings; but
as a matter of fact, divorce is commoner in Germany than in England, and more easily obtained.
Imprisonment for felony is sufficient reason, and unfaithfulness without cruelty, insanity
that has lasted three years, desertion, ill treatment or any attempt on the other's life. You
hear divorce spoken of lightly by people whose counterparts in England would be shocked by
it; people, I mean, of blameless sequestered lives and rigid moral views. Some saintly ladies,
who I am sure have never harboured a light thought or spent a frivolous hour, told me of a
cousin who played whist every evening with her present husband and his predecessor. My friends
seemed to think the situation amusing, but not in any way to be condemned. At the same time,
I have heard Germans quote the saying--"Geschiedene Leute scheiden fort und fort," and object
strongly to associate with anyone, however innocent, who had been connected with a matrimonial
scandal.

A woman remains in possession of her own money after marriage even without marriage settlements;
but the husband has certain rights of use and investment. Her clothes, jewels, and tools are
her own, and the wages she earns by her own work. A man's creditors cannot seize either these
or her fortune to pay his debts. Both in Germany and England the wife must live in the house
and place chosen by the husband, but in Germany she need not follow him to unwirtlichen countries
against her will. He can insist on her doing the housework and helping him in his business
when he has no means to pay substitutes; but she can insist on being maintained in a style
proper to their station in life. He is responsible for her business debts if he has consented
to her undertakings; but he can forbid her to carry on a business if he prefers that she should
be supported by him and give her time and strength to the administration of their home. When
they are legally separated he must make her an allowance, but it need only be enough for the
bare necessaries of life if the separation is due to her misconduct. The father and mother
have joint control of the children, but during the father's lifetime his rule is paramount.
When he is dead or incapacitated parental authority remains in the mother's hands. It is her
right and duty to care for the child's person, to decide where it shall live, and to superintend
its education. She can claim it legally from people who desire to keep it from her. A child
born in wedlock is legitimate unless the husband can prove otherwise, and he must establish
proof within a year of the birth coming to his knowledge. But a woman is not allowed to prove
that a child born in wedlock is illegitimate.

If a man dies intestate and leaves children or grandchildren, his widow inherits a fourth of
his property; if he only has more distant relatives, half; if he has none, the whole. A man
cannot cut his wife off with a shilling. He must leave her at least half of what would come
to her if he died intestate. All the laws relating to husband and wife are to be found in the
Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, which can be bought for a mark. As far as the non-legal intelligence
can grasp them, they seem according to our times to be just to women, except when they give
the use of her income to the husband. This is a big exception, however. I remember hearing
a German say that his sister's quarterly allowance, which happened to be a large one, was always
sent to her husband, as it was right and proper that important sums of money should be in the
man's hands and under his control. This undoubtedly is the general German view. After the moonshine,
the nightingales, the feasting, the toasts, and the family poetry come the realities of life:
and the realities in German make the man the predominant partner.

CHAPTER XI

THE HOUSEHOLDER

Rents are high in Germany. At least, the Germans say so, and so do the people whose books about
Germany are crammed with soul-satisfying statistics and elaborate calculations. Over-crowding,
too, is said to be worse in Germany than in English cities. But I have always seen the rent
and the crowding judged by the number of rooms and not by their size. This is really misleading,
because you could put the whole of a small London flat into many a German middle-class dining-room
or Wohnzimmer. You could bring up a family in a single room I once had for a whole summer in
Thüringen for 5s. a week. It was as big as a church, and most light and airy. One camped in
bits of it. I think rent for rent rooms in Germany are quite twice as large as in London. In
Berlin, where rent is considered wickedly high, you can get a flat in a good quarter for £80,
and for that sum you will have four large rooms, three smaller ones, a good kitchen, an attic
that serves as a lumber-room, and a share in a laundry at the top of the house. There will
even be a bathroom with a trickle of cold water, but it is only in the very newest and most
expensive German flats that you find hot and cold water laid on. Your drawing and dining-rooms
will be spacious, and one of them is almost sure to have a balcony looking on the street and
the pleasant avenue of trees with which it is planted. For this rent you must either make yourself
happy on the third or fourth floor in a house without a lift, or you must find one of the delightful
"garden" dwellings behind the Hof; but you will have a better home for your money than you
could get in a decent part of London. In fact, it comes to this, in spite of all the statistics
in favour of London. If you can only spend £80 on your rent you can live in a good quarter
of Berlin, near enough to the Tiergarten, close to the Zoological Gardens, and within a tram-ride
of the delightful woods at Halensee. In London you can get a small house for £80, but it will
either be in an unattractive quarter or in a suburb. A flat, wherever it is, must always seem
a dwelling place rather than a home, but the Germans have elected to live in flats and accept
their disadvantages. In and around all the great cities there are villas, but their number
hardly counts in comparison with the masses of tall white houses, six storeys high for the
most part, and holding within their walls all degrees of wealth and poverty. The German villa
is florid, and likes blue glass balls and artificial fountains in its garden. It is often a
villa in appearance and several flats in reality. Its most pleasant feature is the garden-room
or big verandah, where in summer all meals are served. Outside Hamburg, on the banks of the
Elbe, the merchant princes of the city have built themselves palaces surrounded by splendid
park-like gardens. But Hamburg, though it does not love the English, is always accused by the
rest of Germany of being English. It certainly has beautiful gardens. So have other German
cities in some instances, but well kept gardens are not the matter of course in Germany that
they are here. You see more bare and artificial ones and more neglected overgrown ones in an
afternoon's walk than you do all the year round in England. But I wish we could follow the
German fashion of planting all our streets with double avenues of healthy trees. Berlin in
spring seems to be set in a wood; it is so fresh and green. The flowering shrubs, on the other
hand, are not to be compared with ours. Everyone rushes to see a few lilac bushes, and Gueldres
roses trimmed to a stiff snowball of flowers, and everyone says Wie Herrlich! but you miss
the profusion of lilac, hawthorn, and laburnum that runs riot all about London in every residential
road and every garden. Above all, you miss the English lawns. In Berlin wherever grass is grown
it looks either thin or coarse. The majority of Germans do not dream of wanting a garden. They
are content with a few palms in their sitting-room or window boxes on their balcony. They are
proud of their window-gardening in Berlin, but I think London windows in June are gayer and
more flowery. The palms kept in German rooms attain to a great size and number, and a palm
is a favourite present. Nursery gardeners undertake the troublesome business of repotting them
every spring, so the owners have nothing to do but water them and keep them from draughts.
There are usually so many windows in a German sitting-room that those near the plants need
never be opened in winter; and even when the temperature sinks several degrees below zero outside,
the air of the flat is kept artificially warm, so warm that English folk gasp and flag in it.
At the first sign of winter the outside windows, removed for the summer, are brought back again.
Our windows are unknown on the continent, and disliked by continentals who see them here. They
call them guillotine windows, and consider them dangerous. Theirs all open like doors, so that
you have four doors to each window, and until you get used to them you find they make a pretty
clatter whenever you set them wide. But in winter they are only opened for a few minutes every
morning when the room is "aired." It is considered extravagant to open them at other times,
because the heat would escape and more fuel would be required. I suppose everyone in England
understands that our open fireplaces are almost unknown in Germany. They have enclosed stoves
of iron or porcelain that make little work or dirt and give no pleasure. There is no gathering
round the hearth. You sit about the room as you would in summer, for it is evenly heated. All
the beauty and poetry of fire are wanting; you have nothing but an atmosphere that will be
comfortable or asphyxiating, according to the taste of your hosts. Years ago in South Germany
you burnt nothing but logs of wood in the old-fashioned iron stoves, and there was some faint
pleasure in listening to their crackle. You could just see the flames too, if you stooped low
enough and opened the little stove door. But the wood burnt so quickly that it was most difficult
to keep a big room warm. Nowadays you always find the porcelain stove that Mark Twain says
looks like the family monument. In some of these coal is burnt, or a mixture of coal and peat.
Some burn anthracite, and are considered economical. A Füllofen of this kind is kept burning
night and day during the worst of the winter. It requires attention two or three times in twenty-four
hours; it is easily regulated, and if the communicating doors are left open it warms two or
three rooms. A friend who has a large flat in Berlin told me that there was one of these stoves
in her husband's study, and that her drawing-room which opens out of it, and which they constantly
use, had only had a fire in it five times last winter. I find on looking at this friend's budget
that she spends £16 a year on turf and other fuel, and this seems high for a flat where so
few fires were lighted. But fuel is dear in German towns. Briquettes are largely used in cities,
small slabs of condensed coal that cost one pfennig each. It takes about twenty-four slabs
to keep a stove in during the day. The great advantage of the Füllofen over the ordinary stove
is that it keeps in all night. There are dangerous variations of temperature in a German flat
that is kept as hot as an oven all day, and allowed to sink below zero during the night. But
you hear complaints on all sides in Germany, both of inconsiderate English people who waste
fuel by opening windows in cold weather; and of the sufferings endured by Germans who have
been in England in winter. They do not like our open fireplaces at all, because they say they
wish to be warm all over and not in bits. "In England," they tell you solemnly, "you can be
warm either in front or at the back; but you cannot be warm on both sides as we are here. Besides,
your fireplaces make dirt and work and are extravagant. They would not suit us." In fact, they
imply that for the French and the English they are well enough, but not for the salt of the
earth. The German kitchen stoves are certainly more practical and economical than ours, and
I never can understand why we do not fetch a few over and try them. They are entirely enclosed,
and much lower than ours. The Berlin kitchener has one fire that is lighted for a short time
to roast a joint, and another using less fuel that heats water and does light cooking. The
sweep, who is bound by the etiquette of his trade to wear a tall hat in Germany, does not come
into your flat at all. You hear him shout through the courtyard that he will visit the house
next day, and he works from the garrets and cellars. The police regulate his visits as they
regulate everything else in Germany. Chimneys must be swept every six weeks in summer, and
every four weeks in winter in Berlin. Dustbins are emptied every day, and in some towns the
police make most troublesome regulations with regard to them. The householder has to set his
outside to be emptied, and the police insist on this being done at a certain hour, neither
earlier nor later, so that if your servant happens to be careless or unpunctual you will be
repeatedly fined.

Staircases vary greatly according to the date and rent of the house. The most modern houses
in Berlin have broad front staircases with thick carpets, and in some cases seats of "Nouveau
Art" design on the landings. In such houses you are always met on the threshold by printed
requests to wipe your feet and shut the door gently. They don't tell you to do as you're bid.
That is taken for granted, or the police will know the reason why. There is always an uncarpeted
back staircase for servants and tradespeople, and for the tenants who inhabit the poorer parts
of the building. In houses where all the tenants belong to the poorer classes, you find notices
that forbid children to play in the Hof, and command people not to loiter or to make any noise
on the stairs. Carpet-beating and shaking, which is constantly and vigorously carried on, is
only allowed on certain days of the week and at certain hours. When there is a house porter
he is not as important and conspicuous as the French concierge. In my experience he has usually
gone out and thoughtfully left the front door ajar. He is not a universal institution even
in Berlin.

Taxes vary in different parts of Germany. In Saxony a man spending £500 a year pays altogether
£60 for Income tax, Municipal rates, Water, School, and Church rates. In Berlin the Income
tax is not an Imperial (Reichs) tax, but a Landes tax, and amounts to £15 on an income of £500.
Smaller incomes pay less and larger ones more, in proportion varying from about 2 to 4 per
cent. Besides this Staats tax there is a municipal tax of exactly the same amount in Berlin
and Charlottenberg. But there are towns in Prussia where it is less; others, mostly in the
Western Provinces, where it is more, considerably more in some cases. The water rate is paid
by the house owners, and the tenant pays it in his rent. There are no school taxes. The church
tax is compulsory on members of the Landeskirche. When a man has no capital his income tax
is levied on his yearly expenses; but the man whose income is derived from capital pays a higher
tax than the man who has none. The German, too, pays a great deal to the State indirectly;
for nearly everything he requires is taxed. But the three things he loves best, tobacco, beer,
and music, he gets cheap--cheaper than he can in a Free Trade country; so he pays for everything
else as best he can, and tries to look pleasant. "But the burden is almost more than we can
bear," said one thoughtful German to me when I told him how greatly English people admired
their municipal enterprise, and the admirable provision made in Berlin for the very poor.

Last time I went to Germany I actually made the acquaintance of one German who did not smoke,
and on various occasions I was in the society of others who did not smoke for some hours. In
the Berlin tramcars smoking is strictly forbidden, but I did not observe that this rule was
strictly enforced. In fact, my attention was drawn to it one day by finding my neighbour's
cigar unpleasantly strong. One cigar in a tramcar, however, is nothing at all, and should not
be mentioned. It is when a railway carriage beautifully upholstered with crimson velvet holds
you, six Germans, and one Englishman, for eight hours on a blazing summer day, that you begin
to wonder whether, after all, you do mind smoke. To be sure, you might have travelled in a
Nichtraucher or a Damen-Coupé, but changes are a nuisance on a journey. Besides, you know that
a Damen-Coupé is always crowded, and that the moment you open a window someone will hold a
handkerchief tearfully to her neck and say, "Aber ich bitte meine Dame: es zieht!" and all
the other women in the carriage will say in chorus, "Ja! ja! es zieht!" and if you don't shut
the window instantly the conductor will be summoned, and he will give the case against you.
So you travel all day long with seven cigars, most of them cheap strong ones, that their owners
smoke very slowly and replace directly they are finished. And after a time the conversation
turns on smoking, and your neighbour admits that he always lights his first cigar when he gets
up in the morning and smokes it while he is dressing. His wife dresses in the same room and
does not like it, but.... It is unnecessary to say more. Five cigars out of six are in sympathy
with him, while you amuse yourself by wondering what revenge a wife could take in such circumstances.
A bottle of the most offensive scent in the market suggests itself, but you look at your neighbour's
profile, and see that he is the kind of man to pitch scent he did not like out of the window.
You have heard of one German husband who did this when his wife brought home perfumes that
did not please him. And then your memory travels back and back along the years, arriving at
last at the picture of an English nursery, in the household where a German guest had arrived
the night before. The nurses and the children are sitting peacefully at breakfast, when there
enters to them a housemaid, scornful, scandalised, out of breath with her hurry to impart what
she had seen.

"He's a-smoking in bed," she says, "that there Mr. Hoggenheimer! He's a-smoking in bed!"

"Some of them do," says nurse, who is a travelled person, and refuses to be taken by surprise.

"Well, of all the nasty...."

"Sh!" says nurse, pointing to the children, all eyes and ears.

So that is all you can remember about the housemaid and Mr. Hoggenheimer. But you remember
him--a little dark man who sent you books you could not read at Christmas, and brought you
enchanting gingerbreads covered with hundreds and thousands. You thought him rather funny,
but you liked him, and if he wanted to smoke in bed why not? You liked toys in bed yourself,
and you would have taken the dog there if only it had been allowed. Then you come back again
to the present hour, nearly all the years of your life later, and you are in a railway carriage
with six German householders who, like Mr. Hoggenheimer, want cigars in and out of season.

"To-morrow," you say to your Englishman; "to-morrow I shall travel in a Nichtraucher."

"But then I can't smoke," he says quite truly.

"We shall not travel together."

"But that is so unsociable."

"I would rather be unsociable than suffocated," you explain. "I have suffered tortures to-day."

"Have you? But you always say you don't mind smoke."

"In reason. Seven cigars and one woman are not reasonable. Never again will I travel with seven
cigars."

"I thought we had a pleasant journey," says the Englishman regretfully. "That little man next
to you----"

"Mr. Hoggenheimer----?"

"Was that his name?--I couldn't understand all he said, but he had an amusing face."

"A face can be misleading," you say; "that man bullies his wife."

"How do you know?"

"He told us so. He smokes before breakfast ... while he is dressing, ... and he has no dressing
room...."

The Englishman looks calm.

"They do take one into their confidence," he remarks. "My neighbour told me that he never could
eat mayonnaise of salmon directly after roast pork, because it gave him peculiar pains. I was
afraid you'd hear him describe his symptoms; but I believe you were asleep."

"No, I wasn't," you confess; "I heard it all, and I shut my eyes, because I knew if I opened
them he'd address himself to me. I shut them when he began talking to you about your Magen
and what you ought to do to give it tone. You seemed interested."

"It's quite an interesting subject," says the Englishman, who makes friends with every German
he meets. "He is not in the least like an Englishman," they say to you cordially,--"he is so
friendly and amiable."

CHAPTER XII

HOUSEWIVES

"Frenchwomen are the best housewives in Europe," said a German lady who knew most European
countries well; "the next best are the English; Germans come third." The lady speaking was
one whose opinions were always uttered with much charm, but ex-cathedra; so that you found
it impossible to disagree with her ... until you got home. But to hear the supreme excellence
of the Hausfrau contested takes the breath away; to see her deposed from the first place by
one of her own countrywomen dazzles the eyes. It was a new idea to me that any women in the
world except the Germans kept house at all. If you live amongst Germans when you are young
you adopt this view quite insensibly and without argument.

"My son is in England," you hear a German mother say. "I am uneasy about him. I fear he may
marry an Englishwoman."

"They sometimes do," says her gossip, shaking her head.

"It would break my heart. The women of that nation know nothing of housekeeping. They sit in
their drawing-rooms all day, while their husband's hard-earned money is wasted in the kitchen.
Besides ... mein armer Karl--he loves Nudelsuppe and Küken mit Spargel. What does an Englishwoman
know of such things? She would give him cold mutton to eat, and he would die of an indigestion.
I was once in England in my youth, and when I got back we had a Frikassee von Hähnchen mit
Krebsen for dinner, and I wept with pleasure."

"Perhaps," says the gossip consolingly, "your Karl will remember these things and fetch himself
a German wife."

"Poor girl!" says Karl's not-to-be-consoled mother, "she would have to live in England and
keep house there. It happened to my niece Greta Löhring. She had a new cook every fortnight,
and each one was worse than the one before. In England when a cook spoils a pudding she puts
it in the fire and makes another. Imagine the eggs that are used under such circumstances."

I remember this little dialogue, because I was young and ignorant enough at the time to ask
what a German did when she spoilt a pudding, and was promptly informed that in Germany such
things could not happen. A cook was not allowed to make puddings unless her mistress stood
by and saw that she made them properly; "unless she is a perfekte Köchin," added Karl's mother,
"and then she does not spoil things."

A German friend, not the travelled one, but a real home-baked domestic German, took me one
hot afternoon this summer to pay a call, and at once fell to talking to the mistress of the
house about the washing of lace curtains. There were eight windows in front of the flat, and
each window had a pair of stiff spotless lace curtains, and each curtain had been washed by
the lady's own hands. My friend had just washed hers, and they both approached the subject
as keenly as two gardeners will approach a question of bulbs or Alpines. There are different
ways of washing a white curtain, you know, and different methods of rinsing and drying it,
and various soaps. Starch is used too at some stage of the process; at least, I think so. But
the afternoon was hot and the argument involved. The starch I will not swear to, but I will
swear to ten waters--ten successive cleansings in fresh water before the soul of the housewife
was at rest.

"And how do you wash yours?" said one of them, turning to me.

"Oh--I!" I stammered, taken aback, for I had been nearly asleep; "I send a post-card to Whiteley's,
and they fetch them one week and bring them back the next. They cost 1s. a pair."

The two German ladies looked at each other and smiled. Then they politely changed the subject.

This trivial story is not told for its intrinsic merits, but because it illustrates the difference
of method between English and German women. The German with much wear and tear of body and
spirit washes her own lace curtains. She saves a little money, and spends a great deal of time
over them. The Englishwoman, when she possibly can, likes to spend her time in a different
way. In both countries there are admirable housekeepers, and middling housekeepers, and extremely
bad ones. The German who goes the wrong way about it sends her husband to the Kneipe by her
eternal fussing and fidgeting. She is not his companion mentally, but the cook's, for her mind
has sunk to the cook's level, while her temper through constant fault-finding is on a lower
one. The Englishwoman sends her husband to the club or the public house, according to his social
station, because she is incapable of giving him eatable food. But the English belief that German
housewives are invariably dull and stodgy is not a whit more ignorant and untrue than the German
belief that all Englishwomen are neglectful, extravagant housekeepers. The Englishwoman keeps
house in her own way, and it is different from the German way, but it is often admirable. The
comfort, the organisation, and the unbroken peace of a well-managed English household are not
surpassed, in some details not equalled, anywhere in the world.

The German ideal (for women) is one of service and self-sacrifice. Let her learn betimes to
serve, says Goethe, for by service only shall she attain to command and to the authority in
the house that is her due.

    "Dienen lerne bei Zeiten das Weib nach ihrer Bestimmung,
    Denn durch Dienen allein gelangt sie endlich zum Herrschen
    Zu der verdienten Gewalt, die doch ihr im Hause gehöret,
    Dienet die Schwester dem Bruder doch früh, sie dienet den Eltern;
    Und ihr Leben ist immer ein ewiges Gehen und Kommen,
    Oder ein Heben und Tragen, Bereiten und Schaffen für Andre;
    Wohl ihr, wenn sie daran sich gewöhnt, dass kein Weg ihr zu sauer
    Wird, und die Stunden der Nacht ihr sind wie die Stunden des Tages:
    Dass ihr niemals die Arbeit zu klein und die Nadel zu fein dünkt,
    Dass sie sich ganz vergisst, und leben mag nur in Andern!"

She is to serve her brothers and parents. Her whole life is to be a going and coming, a lifting
and carrying, a preparing and acting for others. Well for her if she treads her way unweariedly,
if night is as day to her, if no task seems too small and no needle too fine. She is to forget
herself altogether and live in others.

It is a beautiful passage, and an unabashed magnificent masculine egotism speaks in every line
of it. Whenever I read it I think of the little girl in Punch whose little brother called to
her, "Come here, Effie. I wants you." And Effie answered, "Thank you, Archie, but I wants myself!"
Herr Riehl quotes the passage at the end of his own exhortations to his countrywomen, which
are all in the same spirit, and were not needed by them. German women have always been devoted
to their homes and their families, and they are as subservient to their menfolk as the Japanese.
They do not actually fall on their knees before their lords, but the tone of voice in which
a woman of the old school speaks of die Herren is enough to make a French, American, or Englishwoman
think there is something to be said for the modern revolt against men. For any woman with a
spice of feminine perversity in her nature will be driven to the other camp when she meets
extremes; so that in Germany she feels ready to rise against overbearing males; whilst in America
she misses some of the regard for masculine judgment and authority that German women show in
excess. At least, it seems an excess of duty to us when we hear of a German bride who will
not go down to dinner with the man appointed by her hostess till she has asked her husband's
permission; and when we hear of another writing from Germany that, although in England she
had ardently believed in total abstention, she had now changed her opinion because her husband
drank beer and desired her to approve of it. But it was an Englishwoman who, when asked about
some question of politics, said quite simply and honestly, "I think what Jack thinks."

The truth is, that the women of the two great Germanic races are kin. There are differences,
chiefly those of history, manners, and environment. The likeness is profound.

"Par une rencontre singulière," says M. Taine, "les femmes sont plus femmes et les hommes plus
hommes ici qu'ailleurs. Les deux natures vont chacune à son extrême; chez les uns vers l'audace,
l'esprit d'entreprise et de resistance, le caractère guerrier, impérieux et rude; chez les
autres vers la douceur, l'abnégation, la patience, l'affection inépuisable; chose inconnue
dans les pays lointains, surtout en France, la femme ici se donne sans se reprendre et met
sa gloire et son devoir à obeir, à pardonner, à adorer, sans souhaiter ni pretendre autre chose
que se fondre et s'absorber chaque jour davantage en celui qu'elle a volontairement et pour
toujours choisi. C'est cet instinct, un antique instinct Germanique, que ces grands peintres
de l'instinct mettent tous ici en lumière!... L'âme dans cette race, est à la fois primitive
et serieuse. La candeur chez les femmes y subsiste plus longtemps qu'ailleurs. Elles perdent
moins vite le respect, elles pèsent moins vite les valeurs et les caractères: elles sont moins
promptes à deviner le mal et à mesurer leurs maris.... Elles n'ont pas la netteté, la hardiesse
d'idées, l'assurance de conduite, la précocité qui chez nous en six mois font d'une jeune fille
une femme d'intrigue et une reine de salon. La vie enfermée et l'obéissance leur sont plus
faciles. Plus pliantes et plus sédentaires elles sont en même temps plus concentrées, plus
intérieures, plus disposées à suivre des yeux le noble rêve qu'on nomme le devoir...."

I cannot imagine what M. Taine means by saying that Englishwomen lead a more sedentary and
sequestered life than Frenchwomen, but the rest of his description presents a well-known type
in England and Germany. "Voir la peinture de ce caractère dans toute la littérature anglaise
et allemande," he says in a footnote. "Le plus grand des observateurs, Stendhal tout imprégné
des moeurs et des idées Italiennes et françaises, est stupéfait à cette vue. Il ne comprend
rien à cette espèce de dévouement, 'à cette servitude, que les maris Anglais, sous le nom de
devoir, out eu l'esprit d'imposer à leurs femmes.' Ce sont 'des moeurs de sérail.'"

Here the "greatest of all observers" seems to talk nonsense, for marriage in the seraglio does
not hinge on the submission of one wife to one husband, but on a plurality of wives that English
and German women have only endured in certain historic cases. In both western countries marriage
has its roots in the fidelity of one man and one woman to each other. A well-known English
novelist once said quite truly that an Englishman very rarely distrusts his wife, and never
by any chance distrusts the girl who is to become his wife; and just the same may be said of
the German of the better classes. In both countries you will find sections of society above
and below where morals are lax and manners corrupt. German professors write sketches of London
in which our busy grimy city is held up to a virtuous Germania as the modern Sodom and Gomorrah;
and the Continental Anglophobe likes nothing better than to entertain you with pictures of
our decadent society, pictures that really do credit to the vividness and detail of his imagination.
Meanwhile our press assures the respectable Briton that Berlin is the most profligate city
in Europe, and that scurrilous German novels about the German army will show him what the rotten
state of things really is in that much over-rated organisation. But these national amenities
are misleading. The bulk of the nation in both countries is sound, and family life still flourishes
both here and there. The men of the race, in spite of Herr Riehl's prognostications, still
have the whip hand, as much as is good for them in England, a little more than is good for
them in Germany. If you go to Germany you must not expect a man to open a door for you, or
to wait on you at afternoon tea, or to carry a parcel for you in the street. He will kiss your
hand when he greets you, he will address you as gracious lady or gracious miss, he will put
his heels together and make you beautiful bows, he will pay you compliments that are manifestly,
almost admittedly, artificial. That at least is one type of man. He may leave out the kisses
and the bows and the compliments and be quite undisguisedly bearish; or he may be something
betwixt and between, kindly, concerned for your pleasure and welfare. But whatever he is he
will never forget for a moment that you are "only a woman." If you marry him he will expect
to rule everywhere except in the kitchen, and as you value a quiet life you had better take
care that the kitchen produces what pleases him. On occasion he will assert his authority with
some violence and naïveté. No one can be long amongst Germans, or even read many German novels,
without coming across instances of what I mean. For example, there was once a quarrel between
lovers that all turned upon a second glass of champagne. The girl did not want it, and the
man insisted that she should drink it whether she wanted it or not. What happened in the end
is forgotten and does not matter. It is the comment of the historian that remains in the memory.

"Her family had spoilt her," said he. "When they are married and my friend gets her to himself
she will not behave so."

"But why should she drink a second glass of champagne if she did not want it?" I asked.

"Because he commanded her to," said this Petruchio, beginning to bristle at once; and he straightway
told me another story about a man who threw his lady-love's dog into a pond, not because the
dog needed a bath, but in assertion of his authority. The lady had wished to keep her dog out
of the water.

"Did she ever forgive the man?" said I.

"Forgive!--What was there to forgive? The man wished to put the dog in the pond. A man must
know how to enforce his will ... or he is no man."

I nearly said "Lor!" like Mr. Tweddle in The Tinted Venus, but in Germany it's a serious matter,
a sort of lèse majesté, to laugh at the rightful rule of man. You must expect to see them waited
on hand and foot, and to take this service as a matter of course. I have known Englishmen embarrassed
by this state of affairs.

"They will get me chairs," complained one, "and at table the daughters jump up and wait on
me. It's horrid."

"Not at all," said I. "It's your due. You must behave as if you were used to it."

"I can't. The other day I got the daughters of the house to sit still while I handed about
cups of tea, and if some of the old boys didn't jump down their throats and tell them they'd
no business to let me forget my dignity. Bless my dignity ... if it's such a tender plant as
that...."

"Sh!" I said. "They must have been old-fashioned people. In some houses young men hand cups."

"They look jolly self-conscious while they're doing it, ... as if they didn't half like it.
You bet, they take it out of their womenfolk when they get home. Look at that chap Müller!"

"Where is he?"

"In Dresden, where I lived last winter. He stormed the house down because his wife took up
his glass of beer and drank before he did. Nearly had a fit. Said his dignity as a husband
was damaged. Then he turned to me and asked whether even in England a wife would be so bold
and bad?"

"What did you say?"

"I didn't say anything. I looked sick."

"That's no use. You should say a great deal, and wave your arms about and hammer on the table.
You don't know how to show emotion."

"I should hope not," says the Englishman. "But German women are always telling me they envy
the women in our country."

"That's their politeness," I assure him. "They don't mean it. They're as happy as the day is
long. Besides, Germans don't get drunk and beat their wives with pokers. You know perfectly
well that most Englishmen----"

But, of course, whatever you say about German women of the present day can be contradicted
by anybody who chooses to describe one at either end of the scale, for the contrasts there
are violent. You will find in the same street a woman who exercises a profession, lives more
or less at her club, and is as independent as her brother; and women who are household drudges,
with neither leisure nor spirit for any occupation that would enrich their minds.

CHAPTER XIII

HOUSEWIVES (Continued)

In Germany the home is furnished by the bride's parents, and the household linen forms part
of her trousseau and is marked by her monogram. In describing the furniture of a German flat,
you must first decide whether you are going to choose one furnished to-day by a fashionable
young woman in Berlin or Hamburg; or one furnished by her parents twenty to twenty-five years
ago. Modern German furniture is quite easily suggested to the English imagination, because
some of it looks as if the artist had visited our Arts and Crafts Exhibitions and then made
his own designs in a nightmare; while some has accepted English inspiration and adapted itself
wisely and cleverly to German needs. To-day a German bride will have in her bedroom a wardrobe
with a big mirror, a toilet table or chest, a marble-topped washstand and two narrow bedsteads,
all of fumed wood. If she has money and understanding the things have probably come from England,
not from an emporium, but from one of our artists in furniture whom the Germans know better
and value more highly than we do ourselves. But if she has money only she can buy florid pretentious
stuff that outdoes in ugliness the worst productions of our "suite" sellers. Her mother, however,
probably did without any kind of toilet table or glass in her wardrobe. Twenty years ago you
occasionally saw such things in the houses of rich people, but they were quite unusual. A small
hanging glass behind the washstand was considered enough for any ordentliche Frau. Nowadays
in rare cases the ordentliche Frau actually has silver brushes and powder pots and trinket
boxes. But as a rule she still does without such things; she brushes her beautiful hair with
an ivory or a wooden brush, and leaves paint and powder to ladies who are presumably not ordentlich.
At one time narrow brass or iron bedsteads were introduced from England, and were used a great
deal in Germany. I remember seeing one all forlorn in a vast magnificent palace bedroom where
a fourposter hung with brocade or tapestry would have looked more at home. But the real old-fashioned
bedstead, still much liked and formerly seen everywhere was always of wood, single and with
deep sides to hold the heavy box mattress. In Mariana Starcke's Travels in Europe, published
in 1833, she says of an inn in Villach, "tall people cannot sleep comfortably here or in any
part of Germany; the beds, which are very narrow, being placed in wooden frames or boxes, so
short that any person who happened to be above five feet high must absolutely sit up all night
supported by pillows; and this, in fact, is the way in which the Germans sleep."

I think this is a statement that will be as surprising to any German who reads it as the statements
made by Germans about England have often been to me. It is true, however, that tall people
do find the old-fashioned German bedsteads short; and it is true that the big square downy
pillows are supported by a wedge-shaped bolster called a Keilkissen. But the Plumeau is what
the German loves, and the Briton hates above all things: the mountain of down or feathers that
tumbles off on cold nights and stays on on hot ones. You hate it all the year round, because
in winter it is too short and in summer it is an oppression. Sometimes the sheet is buttoned
to it, and then though you are a traveller you are less than ever content. At the best you
never succumb to its attractions. Every spring the good German housewife takes her maid and
her Plumeaux to a cleaner and sits there while the feathers are purified by machinery and returned
to their bags. In this way she makes sure of getting back her own feathers both in quality
and quantity. Except for the Plumeaux and the want of a dressing-table and proper mirror, an
ordinary German bedroom is very comfortable and always very clean. However plain it is you
can use it partly as a sitting-room, because a sofa and a good sized table in front of it are
considered an indispensable part of its furniture. When Germans come to England and have to
live in lodgings or poorly furnished inns, the bedrooms seem to them most comfortless and ill
provided. The poor Idealist who lived as an exile in London in the early Victorian age describes
her forlorn room with nothing in it but a "colossal" bed, a washstand, and a chest of drawers,
and though she does not describe them, you who know London from that side can see the half-dirty
honey-combed counterpane, the untempting cotton sheets, the worn uncleanly carpet, the grained
or painted furniture with doors and drawers that will not shut; and if you know Germany too
you must in honesty compare with it the pleasant rooms you have inhabited there for less rent
than she paid her Mrs. Quickly,--rooms with cool clean painted floors, solid old dark elm cupboards,
and bedsteads that when you had pitched the Plumeau on the floor or the sofa were inviting
because they were made with spotless home-spun linen.

What we call the drawing-room used to be extremely chill and formal in Germany, but it has
never been as hideously overloaded as English drawing-rooms belonging to people who do not
know better. The "suite" of furniture covered with rep or brocade was everywhere, and the rep
was frequently grass-green or magenta. There was invariably a sofa and a table in front of
the sofa, and a rug or a small carpet under the table. Even in these days this arrangement
prevails and must continue to do so while the sofa is considered the place of honour to which
the hostess invites her leading guest. If you go to Germany in ignorance of the social importance
attached to the sofa, you may blunder quite absurdly and sit down uninvited or when your age
or your sex does not entitle you to a seat there. I was once present when an English girl innocently
chose a corner of the sofa instead of a chair, though there were older women in the room. The
hostess promptly and audibly told her to get up, for she knew it was not an affair to pass
off as a joke. In England the question of precedence comes up chiefly at the dinner-table.
The host and hostess must send the right people together and place them correctly too. In Germany
you have to know as hostess who is to sit on the sofa; and your decision may be complicated
by the absurd titles of your guests. For instance, one Frau Direktor may be the wife of a post
office official who had a university education, and in Germany a university education counts;
while another Frau Direktor, though she can afford better clothes, is merely the wife of the
man who manages the factory in the next village. I have heard a story of a Frau Kreisrichter
and a Frau Actuar that ended in a life-long feud, and it all turned on a Kaffee Klatsch and
the wrong woman on the sofa. It is not easy to know what to do about these ridiculous titles
in Germany, because some people insist on them and some laugh at them as much as we do. I once
asked a lady who had the best right to know, about using military titles instead of names:
Herr Lieutenant, Herr Major, and so on. She was quite explicit. "Mir ist es ein Greuel," she
said, and went on to tell me that it was only done as one might expect by people who did not
know better, and of course by servants. All the same, it is well to be careful and study the
individual case. I know of an American who addressed his professor as Professor Lachs.

"Where are your manners, mein Herr?" said the professor in a fury, "I am Herr Professor Dr.
Lachs to every student in this laboratory."

But when it comes to Mrs. Tax-Collector and Mrs. Organist and Mrs. Head Master, and it does
come to this quite seriously, it is difficult for the foreigner to appraise values. The length
of the titles, too, is a stumbling-block. You may marry a harmless Herr Braun, and in course
of time become Frau Wirklichergeheimerober regierungsrath. In this case I don't think your
friends would use the whole of your title every time they addressed you; but you would undoubtedly
have a seat on the sofa before all the small fry.

On the table in front of the sofa there used always to be a heavy coloured cloth, and then
put diamond-wise a light embroidered or lace one. A vase of artificial or real flowers, according
to taste, stood exactly in the middle, and a few books in ornamental bindings on either side.
There would be very few ornaments, but these few would be good of their kind, though probably
hideous. Luckily the family did not assemble here on State occasions. For every-day use there
was a Wohnzimmer soberly furnished with solid well made chairs and cupboards. Here the mistress
of the house kept her palms, her work-table, and her pet birds. Here her husband smoked his
after-dinner cigar and drank his coffee before going to his work again. Here the elder children
did their lessons for next day's school, and here at night the family sat round one lamp,--the
father smoking, the mother probably mending, the children playing games. For German fathers
do not live at the Kneipe. They are occasionally to be found with their families. When the
flat was not large enough to furnish a third sitting-room, the dining-room was used in this
way. A modern German family still lives in any room rather than the drawing-room, but it has
learned how to make a drawing-room attractive. The odious "suite" has been abolished or dispersed,
and a lighter, less formal scheme of decoration is making its way. You see charming rooms in
Germany nowadays, but they are never quite like English ones, even when your friends point
to a wicker chair or an Eastern carpet and tell you that they love everything English and have
furnished in the English fashion. In the first place, you do not see piles of magazines and
papers or of library books in a German drawing-room. They would be considered scandalously
untidy, and put away in a cupboard at once. If there are cut flowers they are not arranged
as they are here. On ceremonial occasions and anniversaries great quantities of flowers are
presented, but they are mostly wired and probably arranged in a fanciful shape. The favourite
shape changes with the season and the fashion of the moment. One year those who wish to honour
you and have plenty of money, will send you lyres and harps made of violets, pansies, pinks,
cornflowers, any flower that will lend itself meekly to popular design. The favourite design
in Berlin one spring was a large flat sofa cushion of Guelder roses with tall sprays of roses
or carnations dancing from it. On ordinary occasions market bunches are put into water as an
English cottager puts in his flowers, level and tightly packed. But on a festive occasion in
a rich man's house you hear of a long dinner table strewn with branches of pink hawthorn and
peonies. In fact, a riot of flowers is now considered correct by wealthy people, but you do
not find them here and there and everywhere, whether people are wealthy or not, as you do in
England. That is partly because there are so few private gardens.

The extreme tidiness of German rooms is a constant source of surprise. They are as guiltless
of "litter" as the showrooms of a furniture emporium. You would think that the people who live
in them were never employed if you did not know that Germans were never idle. Every bit of
embroidery has its use and its own corner. The article now being embroidered is neatly folded
inside the work-basket or work-table when it is not in the lady's hands. The one book she is
reading will be near. Any other books she possesses will be on shelves, and probably behind
glass doors. Each chair has its place, each cushion, each ornament. Even where there are children
German rooms never look disarranged. I can truly say I have only once seen a German room untidy
and dusty, and that was in a house with no one but a "Mamsell" in charge; and she apologised
and explained that it was to be spring cleaned next day. There is, by the way, a curious litter
of things kept on a German sideboard in many houses,--coffee machines, silver, useful and ornamental
glass, great blue beer jugs, and suchlike; but they are kept there with intention and not by
neglectful accident. Then the narrow corridor of a German flat is often uncomfortably choked
with articles of household use: lamps, for instance, and a refrigerator, and the safe in which
the mistress locks her food; spare cupboards too, and neat piles of papers and magazines. It
will be inelegant, but it will be orderly and clean.

It is the way in this country to laugh at the German Hausfrau, and pity her for a drudge; and
it is the way with many Germans to talk as if all Englishwomen were pleasure loving and incompetent.
The less people know of a foreign nation the greater nonsense they talk in general, and the
more cocksure they are about their own opinions. A year ago, when I was in Germany, I asked
a friend I could trust if there really was much Anglophobia abroad except in the newspapers.
She reflected a little before she answered, for she was honest and intelligent.

"There is none amongst people like ourselves," she said,--"people who know the world a little.
But you come across it?" She turned to her husband.

"There are others like G.," she said. "He turns green if anyone speaks of England, and he says
Shakespeare is dumm. You see, he has never been out of Germany, and has never met any English
people."

So I told her about my English cook, who snorted with scorn when I assured her Germans considered
rabbits vermin and would not eat them.

"H ... ph!" she said, "I shouldn't have thought foreigners were so particular."

The average German housewife has to keep the house going on exceedingly small means and with
inefficient help. It is her pride and pleasure to make a little go a long way, and she can
only achieve this by working with her hands. Probably her servant cannot cook, but she can,
and it would never occur to her to let her husband and children eat ill-prepared food because
servants do not like ladies in the kitchen. A German lady, like a princess of ancient Greece,
considers that it becomes her to do anything she chooses in her own house, and that the most
convenient household workshop is the kitchen. The Idealist from whom I have quoted before was
the daughter of a well-known German diplomatist, and she had been used since childhood to the
atmosphere of Courts. She was an accomplished well-born woman of the world, but she had not
been a week in her sordid London lodgings with the woman she calls Mrs. Quickly, before she
blundered in her innocent German way--into the lodging-house kitchen. Figure to yourself the
stupefaction and the indignation of Mrs. Quickly, probably engaged, though the Idealist does
not say so, in dining off the foreign woman's beef. "I went down to the kitchen," says Fräulein
von Meysenbug, "with a muslin gown on my arm to ask for an iron so that I could iron my gown
there. The kitchen was Mrs. Quickly's true kingdom; here she alone reigned at the hearth, for
the servant was not allowed to approach the saucepans. Mrs. Quickly looked at me with unconcealed
astonishment as I came in, but when I proffered my request her astonishment turned to wrath.
'What!' she shrieked, 'a lady ironing in the kitchen? That is impossible.' And with the mien
of offended majesty she snatched the gown from me, and ordered the little maid servant to put
an iron in the fire and to iron the gown; then she turned to me and said with tragic emphasis,
'You are a foreigner. You don't understand our English ways: we consider it extremely unladylike
for a lady to enter the kitchen, and worse still if she wants to iron her own gown. No, ma'am,
please to ring the bell when you require anything; otherwise you will ruin my servants.' Much
ashamed of my ignorance on this higher plane of English custom," continues the Idealist, "I
crept back to my parlour and laughed heartily as I looked round the dirty, wretchedly furnished
room, and reflected on the abyss set by prejudice between the ground-floor and the basement."

"How do you like your new German governess?" I once asked an English friend who lived in the
country and had just engaged a German lady for her only daughter.

"Oh! I like her," said my friend without enthusiasm. "She is a brilliant musician and a fine
linguist and all that. But she has such odd ideas about what a girl ought to know. The other
day I actually caught her teaching Patricia to dust."

"If you don't watch her," I said, "she'll probably teach Patricia to cook."

My friend looked anxious first, and then relieved.

"I don't see how she could do that," she said. "The cook would never have them in the kitchen
for five minutes. But now you mention it, I believe she can cook. When things go wrong she
seems to know what has been done or not done."

"That might be useful," I suggested.

"I don't see it. I expect my cook to know her work, and to do it and not to rely on me. I've
other fish to fry."

But the German housewife expects to have her fingers literally in every pie even when by rights
they should be employed elsewhere. You hear, for instance, of a great Court functionary whose
wife is so devoted to cooking that though she has a large staff of servants she cannot be persuaded
to spend the day anywhere but in her kitchen. Mistresses of this kind breed incapable servants,
and you find, in fact, that German maids cannot compare with our English ones in qualities
of self-reliance, method, and initiative. They mostly expect to be told from hour to hour what
to do, and very often to lend a hand to the ladies of the household rather than to do the thing
themselves. Indeed, though the servants are on duty from morning till night more than English
servants are, in some ways they have an easier time of it than ours, because they are used
so much to run errands and go to market. Everyone who has been in German towns can remember
the hordes of servants with baskets and big umbrellas strolling in twos and threes along the
streets in the early morning. They are never in any hurry to get home to work again, and a
good many doubtless know that what they leave undone will be done by their mistress. The German
kitchen with its beautiful cleanliness and brightly polished copper pans I have described,
but I have not said anything yet about the fidgety housewife who carries her Tüchtigkeit to
such a pitch that she ties every wooden spoon and twirler with a coloured ribbon to hang by
against the wall. In England you hear of ladies who tie every bottle of scent on the toilet
table with a different ribbon, and that really has more sense in it, because it must be trying
to a cook's nerves to use spoons tied with delicate ribbons that must not be spoiled. Every
housewife has dainty little holders for the handles of saucepans when they are hot. You see
them, all different shapes and sizes, on view with the piles of kitchen cloths and the various
aprons that form part of every lady's trousseau, and if you have German friends they probably
present you with a few from time to time. I have never noticed any pictures in a German kitchen,
but there are nearly always Sprüche both in the kitchen, and the dining-room and sometimes
in the hall: rhyming maxims that are done in poker work or painted on wood and hung in conspicuous
positions--

    "Wie die Küche so das Haus,
    Reinlich drinnen, reinlich draus"

is a nice one; and so is

    "Trautes Heim
    Glück allein."

There was one in the Lette-Haus or some other big institution about an hour in the morning
being worth several hours later in the day, which would prick our English consciences more
sharply than it can most German ones, for they are a nation of early risers. Schools and offices
all open so early that a household must of necessity be up betimes to feed its menfolk and
children with bread and coffee before their day's work. In most German towns the tradespeople
do not call for orders, but they do in Hamburg; and a friend born there told me in a whisper,
so that her husband should not hear the awful confession, that she would never be a good "provider"
in consequence. She went to market regularly, for many housewives will not delegate this most
important business to a cook, but she had not the same eye for a tough goose or a poor fish,
perhaps not the same backbone for a bargain, as a housewife used from childhood to these sorties.
In some towns the butcher calls over night for orders. The baker's boy brings rolls before
anyone is up, and hangs them outside the flat in one of two bags every household possesses.
After the early breakfast either the mistress or the cook fetches what is required for the day.

When the good German housewife is not in her kitchen, English tradition believes her to be
at her linen cupboard.

"I am going to write a humble little gossiping book about German Home Life," I said to a learned
but kindly professor last spring.

"German Home Life," he said, rather aghast at my daring, for we had only just made each other's
acquaintance, and I believe he thought that this was my first visit to Germany and that I had
been there a week. "It is a wide field," he went on. "However ... if you want to understand
our Home Life ... just look at that...."

We were having tea together in the dining-room in his wife's absence, and he suddenly got up
from table and threw back both doors of an immense cupboard occupying the longest wall in the
room. I gazed at the sight before me, and my thoughts were too deep for words. It was a small
household, I knew. It comprised, in fact, the professor, his beautiful young wife, and one
small maid-servant; and for their happiness they possessed all this linen: shelf upon shelf,
pile upon pile of linen, exactly ordered, tied with lemon coloured ribbons, embroidered beyond
doubt with the initials of the lady who brought it here as a bride. The lady, it may as well
be said, is a celebrated musician who passes a great part of each winter fulfilling engagements
away from home. "But what happens to the linen cupboard when you are away?" I asked her, later,
for it was grievous to think of any servant, even a "pearl," making hay of those ordered shelves.
"I come home for a few days in between and set things to rights again," she explained; and
then, seeing that I was interested, she admitted that she had put up and made every blind and
curtain, and had even carpentered and upholstered an empire sofa in her drawing-room. She showed
me each cupboard and corner of the flat, and I saw everywhere the exquisite order and spotlessness
the notable German housewife knows how to maintain. We even peeped into the professor's dressing-room.

"He must be a very tidy man," I said, sighing and reflecting that he could not be as other
men are. "Do you never have to set things to rights here?"

"Every half hour," she said.

These enormous quantities of linen that are still the housewife's pride used to be necessary
when house and table linen were only washed twice a year. A German friend who entertained a
large party of children and grandchildren every week, pointed out to me that she used eighteen
or twenty dinner napkins each time they came, and that when washing day arrived at the end
of six months even her supply was nearly exhausted. The soiled linen was stored meanwhile in
an attic at the top of the house. The wash itself and the drying and ironing all took place
up there with the help of a hired laundress. In most German cities this custom of washing at
home still prevails, but in these days it is usually done once a month. The large attics that
serve as laundries are engaged for certain days by the families living in the house, and one
servant assisted for one day by a laundry woman washes and irons all the house and body linen
used by her employers and herself in four weeks. It sounds impossible, but in Germany nothing
involving hard work is impossible. All the differences of life between England and Germany,
in as far as expenses are concerned, seem to come to this in the end: that over there both
men and women will work harder for less money. On the monthly washing day the ladies of the
household do the cooking and housework, and on the following day they help to fold the clothes
and iron them.

"I am very tired," confessed a little maid-servant who had been sent out at night to show me
where to find a tram. "We got up at four o'clock this morning, and have been ironing all day.
My mistress gets up as early, and works as hard as I do. She is very tüchtig, and where there
are four children and only one servant there is a good deal to do."

Yet her mistress had asked me to supper, I reflected, and everything had been to time and well
cooked and served. The rooms had looked as neat and orderly as usual. The Hausfrau had entertained
me as pleasantly as if she had no reason to feel tired. We had talked of English novels, and
of the invasion of England by Germany; for her husband was a soldier, and another guest present
was a soldier too. The men had talked seriously, for they were as angry with certain English
newspapers as we are over here with certain German ones. But the Hausfrau and I had laughed.

"When they come, I'm coming with them," she said.

"We will receive you with open arms," said I.

CHAPTER XIV

SERVANTS

The first thing that English people notice about German servants is, that they are allowed
to dress anyhow, and that the results are most unpleasing. In Hamburg, the city that gives
you ox-tail soup for dinner and has sirloins of beef much like English sirloins, the maids
used to wear clean crackling, light print gowns with elbow sleeves. This was their full dress
in which they waited at table, and fresh looking country girls from Holstein and thereabouts
looked very well in it. This costume is being superseded in Hamburg to-day by the English livery
of a black frock with a white cap and apron. But in other German cities, in the ordinary middle-class
household, the servants wear what they choose on all occasions. In most places they are as
fond of plaids as their betters, and in a house where everything else is methodical and well
arranged, you will find the dishes plumped on the table by a young woman wearing a tartan blouse
decidedly decolletée, and ornamented with a large cheap lace collar. I have dined with people
whose silver, glass, and food were all luxurious; while the girl who waited on us wore a red
and white checked blouse, a plaid neck-tie with floating ends, and an enormous brooch of sham
diamonds. In South Germany the servants wear a great deal of indigo blue: stuff skirts of plain
blue woollen, with blouses and aprons of blue cotton that has a small white pattern on it.
Some ladies keep smart white aprons to lend their servants on state occasions, but the laciest
apron will not do much for a girl in a sloppy coloured blouse with a plaid neck-tie. But these
same girls who look such slovens usually have stores of tidy well-made body linen and knitted
stockings. In England a servant of the better class will not be seen out of doors in her working-dress.
"In London," says the Idealist in her Memoirs, "no woman of the people, no servant-girl will
stir a step from the house without a hat on her head, and this is one of the ugliest of English
prejudices. While the clean white cap worn by a French maid looks pretty and suitable, the
Englishwoman's hat which makes her "respectable" is odious, for it is usually dirty, out of
shape, and trimmed with faded flowers and ribbons." It gives me pleasure to quote this criticism
made by an observant German on our English servants, partly because it is true, and it is good
for us to hear it, and partly because it encourages me to continue my criticism of German as
compared with English servants. For it ought to be possible to criticise without giving offence.
The Idealist has a very poor opinion of English lodging-house bedrooms and lodging-house keepers,
and she states her opinion quite plainly, but I cannot imagine that anyone in this country
would be hurt by what she says. On the contrary, it is amusing to find the ills from which
most of us have suffered at times recognised by the stranger within our gates. None of us admire
the battered tawdry finery we see in our streets every day, and I cannot believe that German
ladies admire the shocking garments in which their servants will come to the door and wait
at table. But though these clothes are sloppy looking and unsuitable, they are never ragged;
and the girl who puts on an impossible tie and blouse will also wear an impeccable long white
apron with an embroidered monogram you can see across the room. In most towns servants go shopping
or to market with a large basket and an umbrella. They do not consider a hat or a stuff gown
necessary, for they are not in the least ashamed of being servants. Some years ago they made
no attempt to dress like ladies when they went out for themselves, and even now what they do
in this way is a trifle compared to the extravagant get-up of an English cook or parlour-maid
on a Sunday afternoon. A German girl in service is always saving with might and main to buy
her Aussteuer, and as she gets very low wages it takes her a long time. She needs about £30,
so husbands are not expensive in Germany in that class. German servants get less wages than
ours, and work longer hours. Speaking out of my own experience, I should say that they were
indefatigable, amiable, and inefficient. They will do anything in the world for you, but they
will not do their own work in a methodical way. A lady whose uncle at one time occupied an
important diplomatic post in London, told me that her aunt was immensely surprised to find
that every one of her English servants knew his or her work and did it without supervision,
but that none of them would do anything else. The German lady, not knowing English ways, used
to make the mistake at first of asking a servant to do what she wanted done instead of what
the servant had engaged to do; but she soon found that the first housemaid would rather leave
than fill a matchbox it was the second housemaid's "place" to fill; and what surprised her
most was to find that her English friends sympathised with the housemaids and not with her.
"We believe in everyone minding his own business," they said.

"We believe that it is the servant's business to do what his employer wants," says the German.

"You must tell him what you want when you engage him," you say. "Then he can take your place
or leave it."

"But that is impossible ... Unsinn ... Quatsch...." says the German indignantly. "How can I
tell what I shall want my servant to do three months hence on a Monday morning. Das hat keinen
Zweck."

"I know exactly what each one of my servants will do three months hence on a Monday morning,"
you say. "It is quite easy. You plan it all out...."

But you will never agree. The German has his or rather her own methods, and you will always
think her unmethodical but thrifty and knowledgeable, and she will always think you extravagant
and ignorant, but "chic," and on these terms you may be quite good friends. In most German
households there is no such thing as the strict division of labour insisted on here. Your cook
will be delighted to make a blouse for you, and your nurse will turn out the dining-room, and
your chambermaid will take the child for an airing. They are more human in their relation to
their employers. The English servant fixes a gulf between herself and the most democratic mistress.
The German servant brings her intimate joys and sorrows to a good Herrschaft, and expects their
sympathy. When a girl has bad luck and engages with a bad Herrschaft she is worse off than
in England, partly because when German housekeeping is mean it sounds depths of meanness not
unknown, but extremely rare here; and also because a German servant is more in the power of
her employers and of the police than an English one. Anyone who has read Klara Viebig's remarkable
novel, Das Tägliche Brot (a story of servant life in Berlin) will remember the mistress who
kept every bit of dainty food under lock and key, and fed the kitchen on soup-meat all the
year round. The chambermaid gives way in a moment of hunger and temptation, manages to get
the key, and is discovered by the worthless son of the house stealing cakes. He threatens her
with exposure if she will not listen to his love-making. Even if there was no son and no love-making,
a girl who once steals cakes in Germany may go from place to place branded as a thief. Because
every servant has to have a Dienstbuch, which is under the control of the police, and has to
be shown to them whenever she leaves her situation. There is no give and take of personal character
in Germany. Ladies do not see the last lady with whom a girl has lived. They advertise or they
go to a registry office where servants are waiting to be engaged. In Berlin every third house
seems to be a registry office, and you hear as many complaints of the people who keep them
as you hear here. So the government has set up a large Public Registry in Charlottenberg, where
both sides can get what they want without paying fees. But servants are not as scarce in Germany
yet as they are here and in America. German ladies tell you they are scarce, but it is only
true in comparison with a former state of things. In comparison with London, servants are still
plentiful in Germany. When a lady finds a likely looking girl at an office, she either engages
her at once on the strength of the good character in her Dienstbuch, or, if she is very particular,
she takes her home and discusses things with her there. The engagement is not completed until
the lady has filled in several forms for police inspection; while the servant has to take her
Dienstbuch to the police station both when she leaves and when she enters a situation. It is
hardly necessary to say that when a girl does anything seriously bad, and her employers record
it in the book, the book gets "lost." Then the police interfere and make things extremely disagreeable
for the girl. A friend told me that in the confusion of a removal her own highly valued servant
lost her Dienstbuch, or rather my friend lost it, for employers usually keep it while a girl
is in their service; and though she took the blame on herself, and explained that the book
was lost, the police were most offensive about it. In the end the book was found, so I am not
in a position to say what penalties my friend and her maid would have incurred if they had
never been able to produce it. But Germans have often told me that servants as a class have
real good reason to complain of police insolence and brutality. Here is an entry from a German
servant's Dienstbuch, with nothing altered but the names. On the first page you found the following
particulars:--

GESINDE-DIENSTBUCH

Für                  Anna Schmidt. Aus                  Rheinbeck. Alt                  Geb.
20 Juni 1885. Statur               Schlank. Augen                Grau. Nase }             
Gewöhnlich. Mund } Haare                Dunkelblond. Besondere Merkmale

Official stamp.     (Official signature of
                            Amtsvorsteher.)

Then came the record of her previous situations:--

Key: A: NR. B: NAME, STAND, UND WOHNUNG DER DIENERSCHAFT C: INHABER IST ANGENOMMEN ALS D: TAG
DES DIENSTANTRITTS E: TAG DES DIENSTAUSTRITTS F: GRUND DES DIENSTAUSTRITTS UND DIENSTABSCHIEDS--ZEUGNISS
G: BEGLAUBIGUNG UND BEMERKUNG DER POLIZEI-BEHÖRDE

+--+------------+-------------+---------+--------+--------------+-----------
 A |    B       |       C     |    D    |      E |      F       |    G
+--+------------+-------------+---------+--------+--------------+-----------
 1 |Wittwe      |Dienstmagd   |Den 20ten|Den 2ten|Veränderung   |Gesehen
   |Auguste     |             | Oktober | Januar | halber.      |
   |Knoblauch   |             | 1901    | 1902   | Betragen     |(Place and
   |            |             |         |        | gut          |date, with
   |            |             |         |        |              |official
   |            |             |         |        |              |stamp and
   |            |             |         |        |              |signature)
   |            |             |         |        |              |
 2 |Boretzky,   |Dienstmädchen|Den 2ten |Den 2ten|Wird entlassen|Gesehen
   |Restaurant  |             | Februar | Oktober| weil ihr     |
   |zur Post,   |             | 1902    | 1904   | Benehmen mir |(Place and
   |Bärenstrasse|             |         |        | nicht mehr   |date, with
   |2           |             |         |        | passt. Sonst |official
   |            |             |         |        | fleissig und |stamp and
   |            |             |         |        | ehrlich      |signature)
+--+------------+-------------+---------+--------+--------------+-----------

It will be seen that the characters given tell nothing about a servant's qualities and knowledge;
while the vague complaint that Anna Schmidt's behaviour no longer suited her mistress might
mean anything or nothing. In this case it meant that a son of the house had annoyed the girl
with his attentions, and she had in consequence treated him with some brusquerie. But ten minutes'
talk with a lady who knows the best and the worst of a servant is worth any Dienstbuch in Germany.
And when English servants write to the Times and ask to have the same system here, I always
wonder how they would like their failings sent with them from place to place in black and white;
every fresh start made difficult, and every bad trait recorded against them as long as they
earn their daily bread.

