"Of course they could; the only trouble would be that unless some one called them at the proper
hours they'd forget to eat--and some day they'd be found dead locked in their last embrace."

"How jolly!"

"Oh, very jolly for very young lovers; they are usually such fools!"

"And yet, I believe I'd like to be a fool for love's sake, Miss. Juno."

"Oh, Paul, you are one for your own,--at least I'll think so, if you work yourself into this
silly vein!"

Paul was silent and thoughtful. After a pause she continued.

"The trouble with you is, you fancy yourself in love with every new girl you meet--at least
with the latest one, if she is at all out of the ordinary line."

"The trouble with me is that I don't keep on loving the same girl long enough to come to the
happy climax--if the climax is to be a happy one; of course it doesn't follow that it is to
be anything of the sort. I've been brought up in the bosom of too many families to believe
in the lasting quality of love. Yet they are happy, you say, those two gentle people perpetuating
spring on canvas and cambric. See, there is a small cloud of butterflies hovering about them--one
of them is panting in fairy-like ecstasy on the poppy that decorates your Mama's hat!"

Paul rolled a cigarette and offered it to Miss. Juno, in a mild spirit of bravado. To his delight
she accepted it, as if it were the most natural thing in the world for a girl to do. He rolled
another and they sat down together in the arbor full of contentment.

"Have you never been in love?" asked Paul suddenly.

"Yes, I suppose so. I was engaged once; you know girls instinctively engage themselves to some
one whom they fancy; they imagine themselves in love, and it is a pleasant fallacy. My engagement
might have gone on forever, if he had contented himself with a mere engagement. He was a young
army officer stationed miles and miles away. We wrote volumes of letters to each other--and
they were clever letters; it was rather like a seaside novelette, our love affair. He was lonely,
or restless, or something, and pressed his case. Then Mama and Gene--those ideal lovers--put
their feet down and would none of it."

"And you?"

"Of course I felt perfectly wretched for a whole week, and imagined myself cruelly abused.
You see he was a foreigner, without money; he was heir to a title, but that would have brought
him no advantages in the household."

"You recovered. What became of him?"

"I never learned. He seemed to fade away into thin air. I fear I was not very much in love."

"I wonder if all girls are like you--if they forget so easily?"

"You have yourself declared that the majority have neither form nor feature; perhaps they have
no feeling. How do men feel about a broken engagement?"

"I can only speak for myself. There was a time when I felt that marriage was the inevitable
fate of all respectable people. Some one wanted me to marry a certain some one else. I didn't
seem to care much about it; but my friend was one of those natural-born match-makers; she talked
the young lady up to me in such a shape that I almost fancied myself in love and actually began
to feel that I'd be doing her an injustice if I permitted her to go on loving and longing for
the rest of her days. So one day I wrote her a proposal; it was the kind of proposal one might
decline without injuring a fellow's feelings in the least--and she did it!" After a thoughtful
pause he continued:

"By Jove! But wasn't I immensely relieved when her letter came; such a nice, dear, good letter
it was, too, in which she assured me there had evidently been a mistake somewhere, and nothing
had been further from her thoughts than the hope of marrying me. So she let me down most beautifully----"

"And offered to be a sister to you?"

"Perhaps; I don't remember now; I always felt embarrassed after that when her name was mentioned.
I couldn't help thinking what an infernal ass I'd made of myself."

"It was all the fault of your friend."

"Of course it was; I'd never have dreamed of proposing to her if I hadn't been put up to it
by the match-maker. Oh, what a lot of miserable marriages are brought on in just this way!
You see when I like a girl ever so much, I seem to like her too well to marry her. I think
it would be mean of me to marry her."

"Why?"

"Because--because I'd get tired after a while; everybody does, sooner or later,--everybody
save your Mama and Eugene,--and then I'd say something or do something I ought not to say or
do, and I'd hate myself for it; or she'd say something or do something that would make me hate
her. We might, of course, get over it and be very nice to one another; but we could never be
quite the same again. Wounds leave scars, and you can't forget a scar--can you?"

"You may scar too easily!"

"I suppose I do, and that is the very best reason why I should avoid the occasion of one."

"So you have resolved never to marry?"

"Oh, I've resolved it a thousand times, and yet, somehow, I'm forever meeting some one a little
out of the common; some one who takes me by storm, as it were; some one who seems to me a kind
of revelation, and then I feel as if I must marry her whether or no; sometimes I fear I shall
wake up and find myself married in spite of myself--wouldn't that be frightful?"

"Frightful indeed--and then you'd have to get used to it, just as most married people get used
to it in the course of time. You know it's a very matter-of-fact world we live in, and it takes
very matter-of-fact people to keep it in good running order."

"Yes. But for these drudges, these hewers of wood and drawers of water, that ideal pair yonder
could not go on painting and embroidering things of beauty with nothing but the butterflies
to bother them."

"Butterflies don't bother; they open new vistas of beauty, and they set examples that it would
do the world good to follow; the butterfly says, 'my mission is to be brilliant and jolly and
to take no thought of the morrow.'"

"It's the thought of the morrow, Miss. Juno, that spoils today for me,--that morrow--who is
going to pay the rent of it? Who is going to keep it in food and clothes?"

"Paul, you have already lived and loved, where there is no rent to pay and where the clothing
worn is not worth mentioning; as for the food and the drink in that delectable land, nature
provides them both. I don't see why you need to take thought of the morrow; all you have to
do is to take passage for some South Sea Island, and let the world go by."

"But the price of the ticket, my friend; where is that to come from? To be sure I'm only a
bachelor, and have none but myself to consider. What would I do if I had a wife and family
to provide for?"

"You'd do as most other fellows in the same predicament do; you'd provide for them as well
as you could; and if that wasn't sufficient, you'd desert them, or blow your brains out and
leave them to provide for themselves."

"An old bachelor is a rather comfortable old party. I'm satisfied with my manifest destiny;
but I'm rather sorry for old maids--aren't you?"

"That depends; of course everything in life depends; some of the most beautiful, the most blessed,
the most bountifully happy women I have ever known were old maids; I propose to be one myself--if
I live long enough!"

After an interlude, during which the bees boomed among the honey-blossoms, the birds caroled
on the boughs, and the two artists laughed softly as they chatted at their delightful work,
Paul resumed:

"Do you know, Miss. Juno, this anti-climax strikes me as being exceedingly funny? When I met
you the other day, I felt as if I'd met my fate. I know well enough that I'd felt that way
often before, and promptly recovered from the attack. I certainly never felt it in the same
degree until I came face to face with you. I was never quite so fairly and squarely face to
face with any one before. I came here because I could not help myself. I simply had to come,
and to come at once. I was resolved to propose to you and to marry you without a cent, if you'd
let me. I didn't expect that you'd let me, but I felt it my duty to find out. I'm dead sure
that I was very much in love with you--and I am now; but somehow it isn't that spoony sort
of love that makes a man unwholesome and sometimes drives him to drink or to suicide. I suppose
I love you too well to want to marry you; but God knows how glad I am that we have met, and
I hope that we shall never really part again."

"Paul!"--Miss. Juno's rather too pallid cheeks were slightly tinged with rose; she seemed more
than ever to belong to that fair garden, to have become a part of it, in fact;--"Paul," said
she, earnestly enough, "you're an awfully good fellow, and I like you so much; I shall always
like you; but if you had been fool enough to propose to me I should have despised you. Shake!"
And she extended a most shapely hand that clasped his warmly and firmly. While he still held
it without restraint, he added:

"Why I like you so much is because you are unlike other girls; that is to say, you're perfectly
natural."

"Most people who think me unlike other girls, think me unnatural for that reason. It is hard
to be natural, isn't it?"

"Why, no, I think it is the easiest thing in the world to be natural. I'm as natural as I can
be, or as anybody can be."

"And yet I've heard you pronounced a bundle of affectations."

"I know that--it's been said in my hearing, but I don't care in the least; it is natural for
the perfectly natural person not to care in the least."

"I think, perhaps, it is easier for boys to be natural, than for girls," said Miss. Juno.

"Yes, boys are naturally more natural," replied Paul with much confidence.

Miss. Juno smiled an amused smile.

Paul resumed--"I hardly ever knew a girl who didn't wish herself a boy. Did you ever see a
boy who wanted to be a girl?"

"I've seen some who ought to have been girls--and who would have made very droll girls. I know
an old gentleman who used to bewail the degeneracy of the age and exclaim in despair, 'Boys
will be girls!'" laughed Miss. Juno.

"Horrible thought! But why is it that girlish boys are so unpleasant while tom-boys are delightful?"

"I don't know," replied she, "unless the girlish boy has lost the charm of his sex, that is
manliness; and the tom-boy has lost the defect of hers--a kind of selfish dependence."

"I'm sure the girls like you, don't they?'' he added.

"Not always; and there are lots of girls I can't endure!"

"I've noticed that women who are most admired by women are seldom popular with men; and that
the women the men go wild over are little appreciated by their own sex," said Paul.

"Yes, I've noticed that; as for myself my best friends are masculine; but when I was away at
boarding-school my chum, who was immensely popular, used to call me Jack!"

"How awfully jolly; may I call you 'Jack' and will you be my chum?"

"Of course I will; but what idiots the world would think us."

"Who cares?" cried he defiantly. "There are millions of fellows this very moment who would
give their all for such a pal as you are--Jack!"

There was a fluttering among the butterflies; the artists had risen and were standing waist-deep
in the garden of gracious things; they were coming to Paul and Miss. Juno, and in amusing pantomime
announcing that pangs of hunger were compelling their return to the cottage; the truth is,
it was long past the lunch hour--and a large music-box which had been set in motion when the
light repast was laid had failed to catch the ear with its tinkling aria.

All four of the occupants of the garden turned leisurely toward the cottage. Miss. Juno had
rested her hand on Paul's shoulder and said in a delightfully confidential way: "Let it be
a secret that we are chums, dear boy--the world is such an idiot."

"All right, Jack," whispered Paul, trying to hug himself in delight, 'Little secrets are cozy.'"

And in the scent of the roses it was duly embalmed.

III

Happy is the man who is without encumbrances--that that is if he knows how to be happy. Whenever
Paul Clitheroe found the burden of the day becoming oppressive he cast it off, and sought solace
in a change of scene. He could always, or almost always, do this at a moment's notice. It chanced,
upon a certain occasion, when a little community of artists were celebrating the sale of a
great picture--the masterpiece of one of their number--that word was sent to Paul to join their
feast. He found the large studio where several of them worked intermittently, highly decorated;
a table was spread in a manner to have awakened an appetite even upon the palate of the surfeited;
there were music and dancing, and bacchanalian revels that went on and on from night to day
and on to night again. It was a veritable feast of lanterns, and not until the last one had
burned to the socket and the wine-vats were empty and the studio strewn with unrecognizable
debris and permeated with odors stale, flat and unprofitable, did the revels cease. Paul came
to dine; he remained three days; he had not yet worn out his welcome, but he had resolved,
as was his wont at intervals, to withdraw from the world, and so he returned to the Eyrie,--which
was ever his initial step toward the accomplishment of the longed-for end.

Not very many days later Paul received the breeziest of letters; it was one of a series of
racy rhapsodies that came to him bearing the Santa Rosa postmark. They were such letters as
a fellow might write to a college chum, but with no line that could have brought a blush to
the cheek of modesty--not that the college chum is necessarily given to the inditing of such
epistles. These letters were signed "Jack."

"Jack" wrote to say how the world was all in bloom and the rose-garden one bewildering maze
of blossoms; how Mama was still embroidering from nature in the midst thereof, crowned with
a wreath of butterflies and with one uncommonly large one perched upon her Psyche shoulder
and fanning her cheek with its brilliantly dyed wing; how Eugene was reveling in his art, painting
lovely pictures of the old Spanish Missions with shadowy outlines of the ghostly fathers, long
since departed, haunting the dismantled cloisters; how the air was like the breath of heaven,
and the twilight unspeakably pathetic, and they were all three constantly reminded of Italy
and forever talking of Rome and the Campagna, and Venice, and imagining themselves at home
again and Paul with them, for they had resolved that he was quite out of his element in California;
they had sworn he must be rescued; he must return with them to Italy and that right early.
He must wind up his affairs and set his house in order at once and forever; he should never
go back to it again, but live a new life and a gentler life in that oldest and most gentle
of lands; they simply must take him with them and seat him by the shore of the Venetian Sea,
where he could enjoy his melancholy, if he must be melancholy, and find himself for the first
time provided with a suitable background. This letter came to him inlaid with rose petals;
they showered upon him in all their fragrance as he read the inspiring pages and, since "Jack"
with quite a martial air had issued a mandate which ran as follows, "Order No. 19--Paul Clitheroe
will, upon receipt of this, report immediately at headquarters at Santa Rosa," he placed the
key of his outer door in his pocket and straightway departed without more ado.

       *       *       *       *       *

They swung in individual hammocks, Paul and "Jack," within the rose-screened veranda. The conjugal
affinities, Violet and Eugene, were lost to the world in the depths of the rose-garden beyond
sight and hearing.

Said Jack, resuming a rambling conversation which had been interrupted by the noisy passage
of a bee, "That particular bee reminds me of some people who fret over their work, and who
make others who are seeking rest, extremely uncomfortable."

Paul was thoughtful for a few moments and then remarked: "And yet it is a pleasant work he
is engaged in, and his days are passed in the fairest fields; he evidently enjoys his trade
even if he does seem to bustle about it. I can excuse the buzz and the hum in him, when I can't
always in the human tribes."

"If you knew what he was saying just now, perhaps you'd find him as disagreeable as the man
who is condemned to earn his bread in the sweat of his brow, and makes more or less of a row
about it."

"Very likely, Jack, but these bees are born with business instincts, and they can't enjoy loafing;
they don't know how to be idle. Being as busy as a busy bee must be being very busy!"

"There is the hum of the hive in that phrase, old boy! I'm sure you've been working up to it
all along. Come now, confess, you've had that in hand for some little time."

"Well, what if I have? That is what writers do, and they have to do it. How else can they make
their dialogue in the least attractive? Did you ever write a story, Jack?"

"No, of course not; how perfectly absurd!"

"Not in the least absurd. You've been reading novels ever since you were born. You've the knack
of the thing, the telling of a story, the developing of a plot, the final wind-up of the whole
concern, right at your tongue's end."

"Paul, you're an idiot."

"Idiot, Jack? I'm nothing of the sort and I can prove what I've just been saying to you about
yourself. Now, listen and don't interrupt me until I've said my say."

Paul caught hold of a branch of vine close at hand and set his hammock swinging slowly. Miss.
Juno settled herself more comfortably in hers, and seemed much interested and amused.

"Now," said Paul, with a comical air of importance--"now, any one who has anything at his tongue's
end, has it, or can, just as well as not, have it at his finger's end. If you can tell a story
well, and you can, Jack, you know you can, you can write it just as well. You have only to
tell it with your pen instead of with your lips; and if you will only write it exactly as you
speak it, so long as your verbal version is a good one, your pen version is bound to be equally
as good; moreover, it seems to me that in this way one is likely to adopt the most natural
style, which is, of course, the best of all styles. Now what do you say to that?"

"Oh, nothing," after a little pause--"however I doubt that any one, male or female, can take
up pen for the first time and tell a tale like a practised writer."

"Of course not. The practised writer has a style of his own, a conventional narrative style
which may be very far from nature. People in books very seldom talk as they do in real life.
When people in books begin to talk like human beings the reader thinks the dialogue either
commonplace or mildly realistic, and votes it a bore."

"Then why try to write as one talks? Why not cultivate the conventional style of the practised
writer?"

"Why talk commonplaces?" cried Paul a little tartly. "Of course most people must do so if they
talk at all, and they are usually the people who talk all the time. But I have known people
whose ordinary conversation was extraordinary, and worth putting down in a book--every word of it."

"In my experience," said Miss. Juno, "people who talk like books are a burden."

"They needn't talk like the conventional book, I tell you. Let them have something to say and
say it cleverly--that is the kind of conversation to make books of."

"What if all that we've been saying here, under the rose, as it were, were printed just as
we've said it?"

"What if it were? It would at least be natural, and we've been saying something of interest
to each other; why should it not interest a third party?"

Miss. Juno smiled and rejoined, "I am not a confirmed eavesdropper, but I often find myself
so situated that I cannot avoid overhearing what other people are saying to one another; it
is seldom that, under such circumstances, I hear anything that interests me."

"Yes, but if you knew the true story of those very people, all that they may be saying in your
hearing would no doubt possess an interest, inasmuch as it would serve to develop their history."

"Our conversation is growing a little thin, Paul, don't you think so? We couldn't put all this
into a book."

"If it helped to give a clue to our character and our motives, we could. The thing is to be
interesting: if we are interesting, in ourselves, by reason of our original charm or our unconventionality,
almost anything we might say or do ought to interest others. Conventional people are never
interesting."

"Yet the majority of mankind is conventional to a degree; the conventionals help to fill up;
their habitual love of conventionality, or their fear of the unconventional, is what keeps
them in their place. This is very fortunate. On the other hand, a world full of people too
clever to be kept in their proper spheres, would be simply intolerable. But there is no danger
of this!"

"Yes, you are right," said Paul after a moment's pause;--"you are interesting, and that is
why I like you so well."

"You mean that I am unconventional?"

"Exactly. And, as I said before, that is why I'm so awfully fond of you. By Jove, I'm so glad
I'm not in love with you, Jack."

"So am I, old boy; I couldn't put up with that at all; you'd have to go by the next train,
you know; you would, really. And yet, if we are to write a novel apiece we shall be obliged
to put love into it; love with a very large L."

"No we wouldn't; I'm sure we wouldn't."

Miss. Juno shook her golden locks in doubt--Paul went on persistently:--"I'm dead sure we wouldn't;
and to prove it, some day I'll write a story without its pair of lovers; everybody shall be
more or less spoony--but nobody shall be really in love."

"It wouldn't be a story, Paul."

"It would be a history, or a fragment of a history, a glimpse of a life at any rate, and that
is as much as we ever get of the lives of those around us. Why can't I tell you the story of
one fellow--of myself for example; how one day I met this person, and the next day I met that
person, and next week some one else comes on to the stage, and struts his little hour and departs.
I'm not trying to give my audience, my readers, any knowledge of that other fellow. My reader
must see for himself how each of those fellows in his own way has influenced me. The story
is my story, a study of myself, nothing more or less. If the reader don't like me he may lay
me down in my cloth or paper cover, and have nothing more to do with me. If I'm not a hero,
perhaps it's not so much my fault as my misfortune. That people are interested in me, and show
it in a thousand different ways, assures me that my story, not the story of those with whom
I'm thrown in contact, is what interests them. It's a narrow-gauge, single-track story, but
it runs through a delightful bit of country, and if my reader wants to look out of my windows
and see things as I see them and find out how they influence me he is welcome; if he doesn't,
he may get off at the very next station and change cars for Elsewhere."

"I shall have love in my story," said Miss. Juno, with an amusing touch of sentiment that on
her lips sounded like polite comedy.

"You may have all the love you like, and appeal to the same old novel-reader who has been reading
the same sort of love story for the last hundred years, and when you've finished your work
and your reader has stood by you to the sweet or bitter end, no one will be any the wiser or
better. You've taught nothing, you've untaught nothing----and there you are!"

"Oh! A young man with a mission! Do you propose to revolutionize?"

"No; revolutions only roil the water. You might as well try to make water flow up-hill as to
really revolutionize anything. I'd beautify the banks of the stream, and round the sharp turns
in it, and weed it out, and sow water-lilies, and set the white swan with her snow-flecked
breast afloat. That's what I'd do!"

"That's the art of the landscape gardener; I don't clearly see how it is of benefit to the
novelist, Paul! Now, honestly, is it?"

"You don't catch my meaning, Jack; girls are deuced dull, you know,--I mean obtuse." Miss.
Juno flushed. "I wasn't referring to the novel; I was saying that instead of writing my all
in a vain effort to revolutionize anything in particular, I'd try to get all the good I could
out of the existing evil, and make the best of it. But let's not talk in this vein any longer;
I hate argument. Argument is nothing but a logical or illogical set-to; begin it as politely
as you please, it is not long before both parties throw aside their gloves and go in with naked
and bloody fists; one of the two gets knocked out, but he hasn't been convinced of anything
in particular; he was not in condition, that is all; better luck next time."

"Have you the tobacco, Paul?" asked Miss Juno, extending her hand. The tobacco was silently
passed from one hammock to the other; each rolled a cigarette, and lit it. Paul blew a great
smoke ring into the air; his companion blew a lesser one that shot rapidly after the larger
halo, and the two were speedily blended in a pretty vapor wraith.

"That's the ghost of an argument, Jack," said Paul, glancing above. He resumed: "What I was
about to say when I was interrupted"--this was his pet joke; he knew well enough that he had
been monopolizing the conversation of the morning--"what I was about to say was this: my novel
shall be full of love, but you won't know that it is love--I mean the every-day love of the
every-day people. In my book everybody is going to love everybody else--or almost everybody
else; if there is any sort of a misunderstanding it sha'n't matter much. I hate rows; I believe
in the truest and the fondest fellowship. What is true love? It is bosom friendship; that is
the purest passion of love. It is the only love that lasts."

There was a silence for the space of some minutes; Paul and Miss. Juno were quietly, dreamily
smoking. Without, among the roses, there was the boom of bees; the carol of birds, the flutter
of balancing butterflies. Nature was very soothing, she was in one of her sweetest moods. The
two friends were growing drowsy. Miss. Juno, if she at times betrayed a feminine fondness for
argument, was certainly in no haste to provoke Paul to a further discussion of the quality
of love or friendship; presently she began rather languidly:

"You were saying I ought to write, and that you believe I can, if I will only try. I'm going
to try; I've been thinking of something that happened within my knowledge; perhaps I can make
a magazine sketch of it."

"Oh, please write it, Jack! Write it, and send the manuscript to me, that I may place it for
you; will you? Promise me you will!" The boy was quite enthusiastic, and his undisguised pleasure
in the prospect of seeing something from the pen of his pal--as he loved to call Miss. Juno--seemed
to awaken a responsive echo in her heart.

"I will, Paul; I promise you!"--and the two struck hands on it.

IV

When Paul returned to the Eyrie, it had been decided that Miss. Juno was to at once begin her
first contribution to periodic literature. She had found her plot; she had only to tell her
story in her own way, just as if she were recounting it to Paul. Indeed, at his suggestion,
she had promised to sit with pen in hand and address him as if he were actually present. In
this way he hoped she would drop into the narrative style natural to her, and so attractive
to her listeners.

As for Paul Clitheroe, he was to make inquiry among his editorial friends in the Misty City,
and see if he might not effect some satisfactory arrangement with one or another of them, whereby
he would be placed in a position enabling him to go abroad in the course of a few weeks, and
remain abroad indefinitely. He would make Venice his headquarters; he would have the constant
society of his friends; the fellowship of Jack; together, after the joint literary labors of
the day, they would stem the sluggish tide of the darksome canals and exchange sentiment and
cigarette smoke in mutual delight. Paul was to write a weekly or a semi-monthly letter to the
journal employing him as a special correspondent. At intervals, in the company of his friends,
or alone, he would set forth upon one of those charming excursions so fruitful of picturesque
experience, and return to his lodgings on the Schiavoni, to work them up into magazine articles;
these would later, of course, get into book form; from the book would come increased reputation,
a larger source of revenue, and the contentment of success which he so longed for, so often
thought he had found, and so seldom enjoyed for any length of time.

All this was to be arranged,--or rather the means to which all this was the delightful end--was
to be settled as soon as possible. Miss. Juno, having finished her story, was to send word
to Paul and he was to hie him to the Rose Garden; thereafter at an ideal dinner, elaborated
in honor of the occasion, Eugene was to read the maiden effort, while the author, sustained
by the sympathetic presence of her admiring Mama and her devoted Paul, awaited the verdict.

This was to be the test--a trying one for Miss Juno. As for Paul, he felt quite patriarchal,
and yet, so genuine and so deep was his interest in the future of his protégée, that he was
already showing symptoms of anxiety.

The article having been sent to the editor of the first magazine in the land, the family would
be ready to fold its æsthetic tent and depart; Paul, of course, accompanying them.

It was a happy thought; visions of Venice; the moonlit lagoon; the reflected lamps plunging
their tongues of flame into the sea; the humid air, the almost breathless silence, broken at
intervals by the baying of deep-mouthed bells; the splash of oars; the soft tripping measure
of human voices and the refrain of the gondoliers; Jack by his side--Jack now in her element,
with the maroon fez of the distinguished howadji tilted upon the back of her handsome head,
her shapely finger-nails stained with henna, her wrists weighed down with their scores of tinkling
bangles! Could anything be jollier?

Paul gave himself up to the full enjoyment of this dream. Already he seemed to have overcome
every obstacle, and to be reveling in the subdued but sensuous joys of the Adriatic queen.
Sometimes he had fled in spirit to the sweet seclusion of the cloistral life at San Lazaro.
Byron did it before him;--the plump, the soft-voiced, mild-visaged little Arminians will tell
you all about that, and take immense pleasure in the telling of it. Paul had also known a fellow-writer
who had emulated Byron, and had even distanced the Byron record in one respect at least--he
had outstayed his lordship at San Lazaro!

Sometimes Paul turned hermit, in imagination and dwelt alone upon the long sands of the melancholy
Lido; not seeing Jack, or anybody, save the waiter at the neighboring restaurant, for days
and days together. It was immensely diverting, this dream-life that Paul led in far distant
Venice. It was just the life he loved, the ideal life, and it wasn't costing him a cent--no,
not a soldo, to speak more in the Venetian manner.

While he was looking forward to the life to come, he had hardly time to perfect his arrangements
for a realization of it. He was to pack everything and store it in a bonded warehouse, where
it should remain until he had taken root abroad. Then he would send for it and settle in the
spot he loved best of all, and there write and dream and drink the wine of the country, while
the Angelus bells ringing thrice a day awoke him to a realizing sense of the fairy-like flight
of time just as they have been doing for ages past, and, let us hope, as they will continue
to do forever and forever.

One day he stopped dreaming of Italy, and resolved to secure his engagement as a correspondent.
Miss. Juno had written him that her sketch was nearly finished; that he must hold himself in
readiness to answer her summons at a moment's notice. The season was advancing; no time was
to be lost, etc. Paul started at once for the office of his favorite journal; his interview
was not entirely satisfactory. Editors, one and all, as he called upon them in succession,
didn't seem especially anxious to send the young man abroad for an indefinite period; the salary
requested seemed exorbitant. They each made a proposition; all said: "This is the best I can
do at present; go to the other offices, and if you receive a better offer we advise you to
take it." This seemed reasonable enough, but as their best rate was fifteen dollars for one
letter a week he feared that even the highly respectable second-class accommodations of all
sorts to which he must confine himself would be beyond his means.

Was he losing interest in the scheme which had afforded him so many hours of sweet, if not
solid, satisfaction? No, not exactly. Poverty was more picturesque abroad than in his prosaic
native land. His song was not quite so joyous, that was all; he would go to Italy; he would
take a smaller room; he would eat at the Trattoria of the people; he would make studies of
the peasant, the contadini. Jack had written, "There is pie in Venice when we are there; Mama
knows how to make pie; pie cannot be purchased elsewhere. Love is the price thereof!" And pie
is very filling. Yes, he would go to Europe on fifteen dollars per week and find paradise in
the bright particular Venetian Pie!

V

After many days a great change came to pass. Everybody knew that Paul Clitheroe had disappeared
without so much as a "good-by" to his most intimate friends. Curiosity was excited for a little
while, but for a little while only. Soon he was forgotten, or remembered by no one save those
who had known and loved him and who at intervals regretted him.

And Miss. Juno? Ah, Miss. Juno, the joy of Paul's young dreams! Having been launched successfully
at his hands, and hoping in her brave, off-hand way to be of service to him, she continued
to write as much for his sake as for her own; she knew it would please him beyond compare were
she to achieve a pronounced literary success. He had urged her to write a novel. She had lightly
laughed him to scorn--and had kept turning in her mind the possible plot for a tale. One day
it suddenly took shape; the whole thing seemed to her perfectly plain sailing; if Clitheroe
had launched her upon that venturesome sea, she had suddenly found herself equipped and able
to sail without the aid of any one.

She had written to Paul of her joy in this new discovery. Before her loomed the misty outlines
of fair far islands; she was about to set forth to people these. Oh, the joy of that! The unspeakable
joy of it! She spread all sail on this voyage of discovery--she asked for nothing more save
the prayers of her old comrade. She longed to have him near her so that together they might
discuss the situations in her story, one after another. If he were only in Venice they would
meet daily over their dinner, and after dinner she would read to him what she had written since
they last met; then they would go in a gondola for a moonlight cruise; of course it was always
moonlight in Venice! Would this not be delightful and just as an all-wise Providence meant
it should be? Paul had read something like this in the letters which she used to write him
when he was divided against himself; when he began to feel himself sinking, without a hand
to help him. Venice was out of the question then; it were vain for him to even dream of it.

So time went on; Miss. Juno became a slave of the lamp; her work grew marvelously under her
pen. Her little people led her a merry chase; they whispered in her ears night and day; she
got no rest of them--but rose again and again to put down the clever things they said, and
so, almost before she knew it, her novel had grown into three fine English volumes with inch-broad
margins, half-inch spacings, large type and heavy paper. She was amazed to find how important
her work had become.

Fortune favored her. She found a publisher who was ready to bring out her book at once; two
sets of proofs were forwarded to her; these she corrected with deep delight, returning one
to her London publisher and sending one to America, where another publisher was ready to issue
the work simultaneously with the English print.

It made its appearance under a pen-name in England--anonymously in America. What curiosity
it awakened may be judged by the instantaneous success of the work in both countries: Tauchnitz
at once added it to his fascinating list; the French and German translators negotiated for
the right to run it as a serial in Paris and Berlin journals. Considerable curiosity was awakened
concerning the identity of the authorship, and the personal paragraphers made a thousand conjectures,
all of which helped the sale of the novel immensely and amused Miss. Juno and her confidants
beyond expression.

All this was known to Clitheroe before he had reached the climax that forced him to the wall.
He had written to Miss. Juno; and he had called her "Jack" as of old, but he felt and she realized
that he felt that the conditions were changed. The atmosphere of the rose-garden was gone forever;
the hopes and aspirations that were so easy and so airy then, had folded their wings like bruised
butterflies or faded like the flowers. She resolved to wait until he had recovered his senses
and then perhaps he would come to Venice and to them--which in her estimation amounted to one
and the same thing.

She wrote to him no more; he had not written her for weeks, save only the few lines of congratulation
on the success of her novel, and to thank her for the author's copy she had sent him: the three-volume
London edition with a fond inscription on the flyleaf--a line in each volume. This was the
end of all that.

Once more she wrote, but not to Clitheroe; she wrote to a friend she had known when she was
in the far West, one who knew Paul well and was always eager for news of him.

The letter, or a part of it, ran as follows:

"Of course such weather as this is not to be shut out-of-doors; we feed on it; we drink it
in; we bathe in it, body and soul. Ah, my friend, know a June in Venice before you die! Don't
dare to die until you have become saturated with the aerial-aquatic beauty of this Divine Sea-City!

"Oh, I was about to tell you something when the charms of this Syren made me half-delirious
and of course I forgot all else in life--I always do so. Well, as we leave in a few days for
the delectable Dolonites, we are making our rounds of P. P. C.'s,--that we are revisiting every
nook and corner in the lagoon so dear to us. We invariably do this; it is the most delicious
leave-taking imaginable. If I were only Niobe I'd water these shores with tears--I'm sure I
would; but you know I never weep; I never did; I don't know how; there is not a drop of brine
in my whole composition.

"Dear me! how I do rattle on--but you know my moods and will make due allowance for what might
strike the cold, unfeeling world as being garrulity.

"We had resolved to visit that most enchanting of all Italian shrines, San Francisco del Deserto.
We had not been there for an age; you know it is rather a long pull over, and one waits for
the most perfect hour when one ventures upon the outskirts of the lagoon.

"Oh, the unspeakable loveliness of that perfect day! The mellowing haze that veiled the water;
the heavenly blue of the sea, a mirror of the sky, and floating in between the two, so that
one could not be quite sure whether it slumbered in the lap of the sea or hung upon the bosom
of the sky, that ideal summer island--San Francisco del Deserto.

"You know it is only a few acres in extent--not more than six, I fancy, and four-fifths of
it are walled about with walls that stand knee-deep in sea-grasses. Along, and above it, are
thrust the tapering tops of those highly decorative cypresses without which Italy would not
be herself at all. There is such a monastery there--an ideal one, with cloister, and sundial,
and marble-curbed well, and all that; at least so I am told; we poor feminine creatures are
not permitted to cross the thresholds of these Holy Houses. This reminds me of a remark I heard
made by a very clever woman who wished to have a glimpse of the interior of that impossible
Monte Casino on the mountain top between Rome and Naples. Of course she was refused admission;
she turned upon the poor Benedictine, who was only obeying orders--it is a rule of the house,
you know--and said, 'Why do you refuse me admission to this shrine? Is it because I am of the
same sex as the mother of your God?' But she didn't get in for all that. Neither have I crossed
the threshold of San Francisco del Deserto, but I have wandered upon the green in front of
the little chapel; and sat under the trees in contemplation of the sea and wished--yes, really
and truly wished--that I were a barefooted Franciscan friar with nothing to do but look picturesque
in such a terrestrial paradise.

"What do you think happened when we were there the other day? Now at last I am coming to it.
We were all upon the Campo in front of the chapel--Violet, Eugene and I; the Angelus had just
rung; it was the hour of all hours in one's lifetime; the deepening twilight--we had the moon
to light us on our homeward way--the inexpressible loveliness of the atmosphere, the unutterable
peace, the unspeakable serenity--the repose in nature--I cannot begin to express myself!

"Out of the chapel came the Father Superior. He knows us very well, for we have often visited
the island; he always offers us some refreshment, a cup of mass wine, or a dish of fruit, and
so he did on this occasion. We were in no hurry to leave the shore and so accepted his invitation
to be seated under the trees while he ordered the repast.

"Presently he returned and was shortly followed by a young friar whom we had never seen before;
there are not many of them there--a dozen perhaps--and their faces are more or less familiar
to us, for even we poor women may kneel without the gratings in their little chapel, and so
we have learned to know the faces we have seen there in the choir. But this one was quite new
to us and so striking; his eyes were ever raised; he offered us a dish of bread and olives,
while the abbot poured our wine, and the very moment we had served ourselves he quietly withdrew.

"I could think of but one thing--indeed we all thought of it at the same moment--'tis Browning's--

    "'What's become of Waring
    Since he gave us all the slip?'"

"You know the lines well enough. Why did we think of it?--because we were all startled, so
startled that the abbot who usually sees us to our gondola, made his abrupt adieus, on some
slight pretext, and the door of the monastery was bolted fast.

"Oh, me! How long it takes to tell a little tale--to be sure! We knew that face, the face of
the young friar; we knew the hand--it was unmistakable; we have all agreed upon it and are
ready to swear to it on our oaths! That novice was none other than Paul Clitheroe!"

A LITTLE SAVAGE GENTLEMAN

BY

ISOBEL STRONG

Reprinted from Scribner's Magazine by permission

"IF YOU want a child as badly as all that," my brother said, "why not adopt a chief's son,
some one who is handsome and well-born, and will be a credit to you, instead of crying your
eyes out over a little common brat who is an ungrateful cub, and ugly into the bargain?"

I wasn't particularly fond of the "common brat," but I had grown used to tending him, bandaging
his miserable little foot and trying to make his lot easier to bear; and he had been spirited
away. One may live long in Samoa without understanding the whys and wherefores. His mother
may have been jealous of my care of the child and carried him away in the night; or the clan
to which he belonged may have sent for him, though his reputed father was our assistant cook.
At any rate, he had gone--departed as completely and entirely as though he had vanished into
thin air, and I, sitting on the steps of the veranda, gave way to tears.

Two days later, as I hastened across the courtyard, I turned the corner suddenly, nearly falling
over a small Samoan boy, who stood erect in a gallant pose before the house, leaning upon a
long stick of sugar-cane, as though it were a spear.

"Who are you?" I asked, in the native language.

"I am your son," was the surprising reply.

"And what is your name?"

"Pola," he said. "Pola, of Tanugamanono, and my mother is the white chief lady, Teuila of Vailima."

He was a beautiful creature, of an even tint of light bronze-brown; his slender body reflected
the polish of scented cocoanut oil, the tiny garment he called his lava-lava fastened at the
waist was coquettishly kilted above one knee. He wore a necklace of scarlet berries across
his shoulders, and a bright red hibiscus flower stuck behind his ear. On his round, smooth
cheek a single rose-leaf hid the dimple. His large black eyes looked up at me with an expression
of terror, overcome by pure physical courage. From the top of his curly head to the soles of
his high-arched slender foot he looked tama'alii--high-bred. To all my inquiries he answered
in purest high-chief Samoan that he was my son.

My brother came to the rescue with explanations. Taking pity on me, he had gone to our village
(as we called Tanugamanono) and adopted the chief's second son in my name, and here he was
come to present himself in person.

I shook hands with him, a ceremony he performed very gracefully with great dignity. Then he
offered me the six feet of sugar-cane, with the remark that it was a small, trifling gift,
unworthy of my high-chief notice. I accepted it with a show of great joy and appreciation,
though by a turn of the head one could see acres of sugar-cane growing on the other side of
the river.

There was an element of embarrassment in the possession of this charming creature. I could
not speak the Samoan language very well at that time, and saw, by his vague but polite smile,
that much of my conversation was incomprehensible to him. His language to me was so extremely
"high-chief" that I couldn't understand more than three words in a sentence. What made the
situation still more poignant was that look of repressed fear glinting in the depths of his
black velvety eyes.

I took him by the hand (that trembled slightly in mine, though he walked boldly along with
me) and led him about the house, thinking the sight of all the wonders of Vailima might divert
his mind. When I threw open the door of the hall, with its pictures and statues, waxed floor
and glitter of silver on the sideboard, Pola made the regulation quotation from Scripture,
"And behold the half has not been told me."

He went quite close to the tiger-skin, with the glass eyes and big teeth. "It is not living?"
he asked, and when I assured him it was dead he remarked that it was a large pussy, and then
added, gravely, that he supposed the forests of London were filled with these animals.

He held my hand quite tightly going up the stairs, and I realized then that he could never
have mounted a staircase before. Indeed, everything in the house, even chairs and tables, books
and pictures, were new and strange to this little savage gentleman.

I took him to my room, where I had a number of letters to write. He sat on the floor at my
feet very obediently while I went on with my work. Looking down a few minutes later I saw that
he had fallen asleep, lying on a while rug in a childish, graceful attitude, and I realized
again his wild beauty and charm.

Late in the day, as it began to grow dark, I asked Pola if he did not want to go home.

"No, Teuila," he answered, bravely.

"But you will be my boy just the same," I explained. "Only you see Tumau (his real mother)
will be lonely at first. So you can sleep at the village and come and see me during the day."

His eyes lit up with that and the first smile of the day overspread his face, showing the whitest
teeth imaginable.

It was not long before he was perfectly at home in Vailima. He would arrive in the morning
early, attended by a serving-man of his family, who walked meekly in the young chief's footsteps,
carrying the usual gift for me. Sometimes it was sugar-cane, or a wreath woven by the village
girls, or a single fish wrapped in a piece of banana-leaf, or a few fresh water prawns, or
even a bunch of wayside flowers; my little son seldom came empty-handed.

It was Pola who really taught me the Samoan language. Ordinarily the natives cannot simplify
their remarks for foreigners, but Pola invented a sort of Samoan baby-talk for me; sometimes,
if I could not understand, he would shake me with his fierce little brown hands, crying, "Stupid,
stupid!" But generally he was extremely patient with me, trying a sentence in half a dozen
different ways, with his bright eyes fixed eagerly on my face, and when the sense of what he
said dawned upon me and I repeated it to prove that I understood, his own countenance would
light up with an expression of absolute pride and triumph. "Good!" he would say, approvingly.
"Great is your high-chief wisdom!"

Once we spent a happy afternoon together in the forest picking up queer land-shells, bright
berries and curious flowers, while Pola dug up a number of plants by the roots. I asked him
the next day what he had done with the beautiful red flowers. His reply was beyond me, so I
shook my head. He looked at me anxiously for a moment with that worried expression that so
often crossed his face in conversation with me, and, patting the floor, scraped up an imaginary
hole, "They sit down in the dusty," he said in baby Samoan. "Where?" I asked. "In front of
Tumau." And then I understood that he had planted them in the ground before his mother's house.

Another time he came up all laughter and excitement to tell of an adventure.

"Your brother," he said, "the high-chief Loia, he of the four eyes (eye-glasses), came riding
by the village as I was walking up to Vailima. He offered me a ride on his chief-horse and
gave me his chief-hand. I put my foot on the stirrup, and just as I jumped the horse shied,
and, as I had hold of the high-chief Loia, we both fell off into the road palasi."

"Yes," I said, "you both fell off. That was very funny."

"Palasi!" he reiterated.

But here I looked doubtful. Pola repeated his word several times as though the very sound ought
to convey some idea to my bemuddled brain, and then a bright idea struck him. I heard his bare
feet pattering swiftly down the stairs. He came flying back, still laughing, and laid a heavy
dictionary in my lap. I hastily turned the leaves, Pola questing in each one like an excited
little dog, till I found the definition of his word, "to fall squash like a ripe fruit on the
ground."

"Palasi!" he cried, triumphantly, when he saw I understood, making a gesture downward with
both hands, the while laughing heartily. "We both fell off palasi!"

It was through Pola that I learned all the news of Tanugamanono. He would curl up on the floor
at my feet as I sat in my room sewing, and pour forth an endless stream of village gossip.
How Mata, the native parson, had whipped his daughter for going to a picnic on Sunday and drinking
a glass of beer.

"Her father went whack! whack!" Pola illustrated the scene with gusto, "and Maua cried, ah!
ah! But the village says Mata is right, for we must not let the white man's evil come near us."

"Evil?" I said; "what evil?"

"Drink," said Pola, solemnly.

Then he told how "the ladies of Tanugamanono" bought a pig of Mr. B., a trader, each contributing
a dollar until forty dollars were collected. There was to be a grand feast among the ladies
on account of the choosing of a maid or taupo, the young girl who represents the village on
all state occasions. When the pig came it turned out to be an old boar, so tough and rank it
could not be eaten. The ladies were much ashamed before their guests, and asked the white man
for another pig, but he only laughed at them. He had their money, so he did not care, "That
was very, very bad of him," I exclaimed, indignantly.

"It is the way of white people," said Pola, philosophically.

It was through my little chief that we learned of a bit of fine hospitality. It seems that
pigs were scarce in the village, so each house-chief pledged himself to refrain from killing
one of them for six months. Any one breaking this rule agreed to give over his house to be
looted by the village.

Pola came up rather late one morning, and told me, hilariously, of the fun they had had looting
Tupuola's house.

"But Tupuola is a friend of ours," I said. "I don't like to hear of all his belongings being
scattered."

"It is all right," Pola explained. "Tupuola said to the village, 'Come and loot. I have broken
the law and I will pay the forfeit.'"

"How did he break the law?" I asked.

"When the high-chief Loia, your brother of the four eyes, stopped the night at Tanugamanono,
on his way to the shark fishing, he stayed with Tupuola, so of course it was chiefly to kill
a pig in his honor."

"But it was against the law. My brother would not have liked it, and Tupuola must have felt
badly to know his house was to be looted."

"He would have felt worse," said Pola, "to have acted unchiefly to a friend."

We never would have known of the famine in Tanugamanono if it had not been for Pola. The hurricane
had blown off all the young nuts from the cocoanut palms and the fruit from the breadfruit
trees, while the taro was not yet ripe. We passed the village daily. The chief was my brother's
dear friend; the girls often came up to decorate the place for a dinner party, but we had no
hint of any distress in the village.

One morning I gave Pola two large ship's biscuits from the pantry.

"Be not angry," said Pola, "but I prefer to carry these home."

"Eat them," I said, "and I will give you more."

Before leaving that night he came to remind me of this. I was swinging in a hammock reading
a novel when Pola came to kiss my hand and bid me good night.

"Love," I said, "Talofa."

"Soifua," Pola replied, "may you sleep;" and then he added, "Be not angry, but the biscuits----"

"Are you hungry?" I asked. "Didn't you have your dinner?"

"Oh, yes, plenty of pea-soupo" (a general name for anything in tins); "but you said, in your
high-chief kindness, that if I ate the two biscuits you would give me more to take home."

"And you ate them?"

He hesitated a perceptible moment, and then said:

"Yes, I ate them."

He looked so glowing and sweet, leaning forward to beg a favor, that I suddenly pulled him
to me by his bare, brown shoulders for a kiss. He fell against the hammock and two large round
ship's biscuits slipped from under his lava-lava.

"Oh, Pola!" I cried, reproachfully. It cut me to the heart that he should lie to me.

He picked them up in silence, repressing the tears that stood in his big black eyes, and turned
to go. I felt there was something strange in this, one of those mysterious Samoan affairs that
had so often baffled me.

"I will give you two more biscuits," I said, quietly, "if you will explain why you told a wicked
lie and pained the heart that loved you."

"Teuila," he cried, anxiously, "I love you. I would not pain your heart for all the world.
But they are starving in the village. My father, the chief, divides the food, so that each
child and old person and all shall share alike, and today there was only green baked bananas,
two for each, and tonight when I return there will be again a division of one for each member
of the village. It seems hard that I should come here and eat and eat, and my brother and my
two little sisters, and the good Tumau also, should have only one banana. So I thought I would
say to you, 'Behold, I have eaten the two biscuits,' and then you would give me two more and
that would be enough for one each to my two sisters and Tumau and my brother, who is older than I."

That night my brother went down to the village and interviewed the chief. It was all true,
as Pola had said, only they had been too proud to mention it. Mr. Stevenson sent bags of rice
and kegs of beef to the village, and gave them permission to dig for edible roots in our forest,
so they were able to tide over until the taro and yams were ripe.

Pola always spoke of Vailima as "our place," and Mr. Stevenson as "my chief." I had given him
a little brown pony that exactly matched his own skin. A missionary, meeting him in the forest
road as he was galloping along like a young centaur, asked, "Who are you?"

"I," answered Pola, reining in his pony with a gallant air, "am one of the Vailima men!"

He proved, however, that he considered himself a true Samoan by a conversation we had together
once when we were walking down to Apia. We passed a new house where a number of half-caste
carpenters were briskly at work.

"See how clever these men are, Pola," I said, "building the white man's house. When you get
older perhaps I will have you taught carpentering, that you may build houses and make money."

"Me?" asked Pola, surprised.

"Yes," I replied. "Don't you think that would be a good idea?"

"I am the son of a chief," said Pola.

"I know," I said, "that your highness is a very great personage, but all the same it is good
to know how to make money. Wouldn't you like to be a carpenter?"

"No," said Pola, scornfully, adding, with a wave of his arm that took in acres of breadfruit
trees, banana groves, and taro patches, "Why should I work? All this land belongs to me."

Once, when Pola had been particularly adorable, I told him, in a burst of affection, that he
could have anything in the world he wanted, only begging him to name it.

He smiled, looked thoughtful for an instant, and then answered, that of all things in the world,
he would like ear-rings, like those the sailors wear.

I bought him a pair the next time I went to town. Then, armed with a cork and a needleful of
white silk, I called Pola, and asked if he wanted the ear-rings badly enough to endure the
necessary operation.

He smiled and walked up to me.

"Now, this is going to hurt, Pola," I said.

He stood perfectly straight when I pushed the needle through his ear and cut off a little piece
of silk. I looked anxiously in his face as he turned his head for me to pierce the other one.
I was so nervous that my hands trembled.

"Are you sure it does not hurt, Pola, my pigeon?" I asked, and I have never forgotten his answer.

"My father is a soldier," he said.

Pola's dress was a simple garment, a square of white muslin hemmed by his adopted mother. Like
all Samoans, he was naturally very clean, going with the rest of the "Vailima men" to swim
in the waterfall twice a day. He would wash his hair in the juice of wild oranges, clean his
teeth with the inside husk of the cocoanut, and, putting on a fresh lava-lava, would wash out
the discarded one in the river, laying it out in the sunshine to dry. He was always decorated
with flowers in some way--a necklace of jessamine buds, pointed red peppers, or the scarlet
fruit of the pandanas. Little white boys looked naked without their clothes, but Pola in a
strip of muslin, with his wreath of flowers, or sea-shells, some ferns twisted about one ankle,
perhaps, or a boar's tusk fastened to his left arm with strands of horse-hair, looked completely,
even handsomely, dressed.

He was not too proud to lend a helping hand at any work going--setting the table, polishing
the floor of the hall or the brass handles of the old cabinet, leading the horses to water,
carrying pails for the milkmen, helping the cook in the kitchen, the butler in the pantry,
or the cowboy in the fields; holding skeins of wool for Mr. Stevenson's mother, or trotting
beside the lady of the house, "Tamaitai," as they all called her, carrying seeds or plants
for her garden. When my brother went out with a number of natives laden with surveying implements,
Pola only stopped long enough to beg for a cane-knife before he was leading the party. If Mr.
Stevenson called for his horse and started to town it was always Pola who flew to open the
gate for him, waving a "Talofa!" and "Good luck to the traveling!"

The Samoans are not reserved, like the Indians, or haughty, like the Arabs. They are a cheerful,
lively people, who keenly enjoy a joke, laughing at the slightest provocation. Pola bubbled
over with fun, and his voice could be heard chattering and singing gaily at any hour of the
day. He made up little verses about me, which he sang to the graceful gestures of the Siva
or native dance, showing unaffected delight when commended. He cried out with joy and admiration
when he first heard a hand-organ, and was excitedly happy when allowed to turn the handle.
I gave him a box of tin soldiers, which he played with for hours in my room. He would arrange
them on the floor, talking earnestly to himself in Samoan.

"These are brave brown men," he would mutter. "They are fighting for Mata'afa. Boom! Boom!
These are white men. They are fighting the Samoans. Pouf!" And with a wave of his arm he knocked
down a whole battalion, with the scornful remark, "All white men are cowards."

After Mr. Stevenson's death so many of his Samoan friends begged for his photograph that we
sent to Sydney for a supply, which was soon exhausted. One afternoon Pola came in and remarked,
in a very hurt and aggrieved manner, that he had been neglected in the way of photographs.

"But your father, the chief, has a large fine one."

"True," said Pola. "But that is not mine. I have the box presented to me by your high-chief
goodness. It has a little cover, and there I wish to put the sun-shadow of Tusitala, the beloved
chief whom we all revere, but I more than the others because he was the head of my clan."

"To be sure," I said, and looked about for a photograph. I found a picture cut from a weekly
paper, one I remember that Mr. Stevenson himself had particularly disliked. He would have been
pleased had he seen the scornful way Pola threw the picture on the floor.

"I will not have that!" he cried. "It is pig-faced. It is not the shadow of our chief." He
leaned against the door and wept.

"I have nothing else, Pola," I protested. "Truly, if I had another picture of Tusitala I would
give it to you."

He brightened up at once. "There is the one in the smoking-room," he said, "where he walks
back and forth. That pleases me, for it looks like him." He referred to an oil painting of
Mr. Stevenson by Sargent. I explained that I could not give him that. "Then I will take the
round one," he said, "of tin." This last was the bronze bas-relief by St. Gaudens. I must have
laughed involuntarily, for he went out deeply hurt. Hearing a strange noise in the hall an
hour or so later, I opened the door, and discovered Pola lying on his face, weeping bitterly.

"What are you crying about?" I asked.

"The shadow, the shadow," he sobbed. "I want the sun-shadow of Tusitala."

I knocked at my mother's door across the hall, and at the sight of that tear-stained face her
heart melted, and he was given the last photograph we had, which he wrapped in a banana-leaf,
tying it carefully with a ribbon of grass.

We left Samoa after Mr. Stevenson's death, staying away for more than a year. Pola wrote me
letters by every mail in a large round hand, but they were too conventional to bear any impress
of his mind. He referred to our regretted separation, exhorting me to stand fast in the high-chief
will of the Lord, and, with his love to each member of the family, mentioned by name and title,
he prayed that I might live long, sleep well, and not forget Pola, my unworthy servant.

When we returned to Samoa we were up at dawn, on shipboard, watching the horizon for the first
faint cloud that floats above the island of Upulu. Already the familiar perfume came floating
over the waters--that sweet blending of many odors, of cocoanut-oil and baking breadfruit,
of jessamine and gardenia. It smelt of home to us, leaning over the rail and watching. First
a cloud, then a shadow growing more and more distinct until we saw the outline of the island.
Then, as we drew nearer, the deep purple of the distant hills, the green of the rich forests,
and the silvery ribbons where the waterfalls reflect the sunshine.

Among the fleet of boats skimming out to meet us was one far ahead of the others, a lone canoe
propelled by a woman, with a single figure standing in the prow. As the steamer drew near I
made out the figure of Pola, dressed in wreaths and flowers in honor of my return. As the anchor
went down in the bay of Apia and the custom-house officer started to board, I called out, begging
him to let the child come on first. He drew aside. The canoe shot up to the gangway, and Pola,
all in his finery of fresh flowers, ran up the gangway and stepped forth on the deck. The passengers
drew back before the strange little figure, but he was too intent upon finding me to notice them.

"Teuila!" he cried, joyfully, with the tears rolling down his cheeks. I went forward to meet
him, and, kneeling on the deck, caught him in my arms.

LOVE AND ADVERTISING

BY

RICHARD WALTON TULLY

Reprinted from The Cosmopolitan Magazine of April, 1906 by permission

I DO NOT demand," said Mr. Pepper, "I simply suggest a change. If you wish me to resign"--his
self-deprecatory manner bespoke an impossible supposition--"very well. But, if you see fit
to find me a new assistant----" He paused, with an interrogatory cough.

It was the senior partner who answered, "We shall consider the matter."

The advertising manager's lean face took on an expression of satisfaction. He bowed and disappeared
through the door.

Young Kaufmann, the junior partner, smiled covertly. But the elder man's face bespoke keen
disappointment. For it must be explained that Mr. Pepper's simple announcement bore vitally
upon the only dissension that had ever visited the firm of Kaufmann & Houghton during the thirty
years of its existence.

In 1875, when John Houghton, fresh from college, had come to New York to find his fortune,
the elder Kaufmann had been a candy manufacturer with a modest trade on the East Side. Young
Houghton had taken the agency of a glucose firm. The disposal of this product had brought the
two together, with the result that a partnership had been formed to carry on a wholesale confectionery
business. Success in this venture had led to new and more profitable fields--the chewing-gum trade.

The rise to wealth of these two was the result of the careful plodding of the German workman,
who kept the "K. & H." products up to an unvarying standard, joined with the other's energy
and acumen in marketing the output. And this mutual relation had been disturbed by but one
difference. When Houghton was disposed to consider a college man for a vacancy, Kaufmann had
always been ready with his "practical man dot has vorked hiss vay." And each time, in respect
to his wishes, Houghton had given in, reflecting that perhaps (as Kaufmann said) it had been
that he, himself, was a good business man in spite of his college training, not because of
it; and, after all, college ideals had sunk since his time. And the college applicant had been
sent away.

Young Johann Kaufmann graduated from grammar school. Houghton suggested high school and college.

"Vat? Nein!" said the elder Kaufmann. "I show him how better the gum to make."

And he did. He put on an apron as of yore and started his son under his personal supervision
in the washing-room. He took off his apron when Johann knew all about handling chicle products,
from importing-bag to tin-foil wrapper. Then he died.

And this year troublesome conditions had come on. The Consolidated Pepsin people were cutting
in severely. Orders for the great specialty of K. & H.--"Old Tulu"--had fallen. Something had
to be done.

Houghton, now senior partner, had proposed, and young Kaufmann agreed, that an advertising
expert be secured. But the agreement ended there. For the first words of the junior partner
showed Houghton that the spirit of the father was still sitting at that desk opposite, and
smiling the same fat, phlegmatic smile at his supposed weakness for "dose college bitzness."

They had compromised upon Mr. Pepper, secured from Simpkins' Practical Advertising School.
But at the end of six months, Pepper's so-called "follow-up campaign" had failed to meet materially
the steady inroads of the western men. He had explained that it was the result of his need
of an assistant. It was determined to give him one.

Then, one night as he sat in his library, John Houghton had looked into a pair of blue eyes
and promised to "give Tom Brainard the chance." In consequence he had had his hair tousled,
been given a resounding kiss and a crushing hug from the young lady on his knees. For Dorothy
Houghton, despite her nineteen years, still claimed that privilege from her father.

In that way, for the first time, a college man had come into the employ of K. & H., and been
made the assistant of Mr. Pepper at the salary he demanded--"any old thing to start the ball
rolling."

And now had come the information that the senior partner's long-desired experiment had ended
in failure.

Young Kaufmann turned to his work with the air of one who has given a child its own way and
seen it come to grief.

"I--I suppose," Houghton said slowly, "we'll have to let Brainard go."

And then a peculiar thing happened. Through the open window, floating in the summer air, he
seemed to see a familiar figure. It was dressed in fluffy white, and carried a parasol over
its shoulders. It fluttered calmly in, seated itself on the sill, and gazed at him with blue
eyes that were serious, reproachful.

"Daddy!" it said, and it brushed away a wisp of hair by its ear--just as another one, long
ago, had used to. "Daddy!" it faltered. "Why did I ask you to give him the place, if it wasn't
because--because----"

The spell was broken by Kaufmann's voice. "Whatefer you do, I am sooted," he was saying. It
might have been his father. "But if w'at Pepper says about Brainard----"

The senior partner straightened up and pushed a button. "Yes. But We haven't heard what Brainard
says about Pepper."

Several moments later Tom Brainard entered. Medium-sized and muscular, he was dressed in a
loose-fitting suit that by its very cut told his training. He stood between them as Mr. Pepper
had done, but there was nothing of the other's ingratiating deference in his level look.

"Sit down, Brainard," said Houghton. The newcomer did so, and the senior partner marked an
attitude of laziness and indifference.

Houghton became stern. "Brainard," he began, "I gave you a chance with us because----" He paused.

The other colored. "I had hoped to make good without that."

"But this morning Mr. Pepper----"

"Said we couldn't get along together. That's true."

"Ah! You admit!" It was Kaufmann.

"Yes."

There was a pause. Then Houghton spoke. "I can't tell you how much this disappoints me, Brainard.
The fact is, for years I have tried to shut my eyes to the development of college training.
In my time there was not the call for practicality that there is today. Yet it seems to me
that the training in our colleges has grown less and less practical. Why do the colleges turn
out men who spend their time in personal gossip over sport or trivialities?"

"You remember that the King of Spain--or was it Cambodia--puzzled his wise men for a year as
to why a fish, when dropped into a full pail of water, didn't make it overflow."

"What's that got to do with it?"

"Because I must answer as the king did: It's not so--the pail does overflow. They hadn't thought
to try it."

"You mean that I am wrong."

"Yes. Are you sure your gossips were 'college men'?"

"Ah!" Houghton made a gesture to his partner, who was about to speak. "Then let us commence
at the root of the matter. Mr. Kaufmann and I have often discussed the subject. In this case
you are the one who has 'tried it.' Suppose you explain our mistake."

"I'd be glad to do that," said Brainard, "because I've heard a lot of that talk."

"Well?"

"Well--of course when I say 'college man' I mean college graduate."

"Why?"

"If a kitten crawls into an oven, is it a biscuit?"

There was an earnestness that robbed the question of any flippancy.

Houghton laughed. "No!"

"If a dub goes into college and gets flunked out in a month, is he a college man?"

"Hardly."

"Oh, but he calls himself one. He goes to Podunk all decorated up in geraniums and the rest
of his life is a 'college man.' I'm not talking about him or the man who comes to college to
learn to mix cocktails--inside. He may last to the junior year. I'm talking about the graduate--they're
only about a tenth of the college. But they're the finished product. Mr. Kaufmann, you wouldn't
try to sell gum that had only gone as far as the rolling-room, would you?"

"W'at--me?"

"Would you?"

"No." The junior partner was puzzled.

"That's because you want it to go through all the processes. Well, let's talk only about the
boy who has gone all the way through the man factory."

Houghton nodded. "That's fair."

"The trouble is, people don't do that. They persist in butting into the college world, jerking
out some sophomore celebration, and saying, 'What use is this silly thing in the real world?'"

"Well, aren't they right?"

"No. That's just the point. The college world is a mimic world--and your lifetime is just four
years. The sophomore celebration is a practical thing there; perhaps it's teaching loyalty--that
generally comes first. That's your college rolling-room. But the graduate--he's learned to
do something well. I never knew a college man who wasn't at least responsible."

"But----"

"But here's the trouble: after selecting say two hundred fellows out of an entering bunch of
six hundred, and developing the thing each is best fitted for, father steps in and the boy
who would have made a first-class professor is put into business and blamed for being impractical.
The fellow who has been handling thousands of dollars in college management and running twenty
assistants--the man who could have taken the place--has no father to give him the boost necessary,
and the other man's failure has queered his chances. He has to go to work as a mere clerk under
a man--excuse me, I don't want to do any knocking."

"You think the whole trouble is caused by misdirected nepotism."

"Yes."

"Ah----" It was young Kaufmann again. "But you said that you were trained in advertising on
your college paper."

"Yes--and I was going to tell you today, if Mr. Pepper hadn't, that the money you're paying
for me is utterly wasted."

"Ah!"

"Yes. I can't look in the face of a hungry designer and beat him down to within a dollar of
the cost of materials. And--and--my suggestions upon broader lines don't seem to cause much
hooray."

"Well--" the junior partner sat up--"since you admit----" He paused for his partner to speak
the words of discharge.

But Houghton was looking quizzically at the college man. "What was your idea as to broader lines?"

Brainard hesitated. "Well, it seemed to me that Pepper is trying to do two things that are
antagonistic: be 'élite' and sell chewing-gum. The fact is that élite people don't chew gum.
I'd like to know how the statement, 'Old Tulu--Best by Test,' will make a kid on the corner
with a cent in his fist have an attack of mouth-watering."

Kaufmann roused himself. "It is true. Our gum is the best."

"I'm not disputing that, but still it's gum. If you're trying to increase the vulgar habit
of gum-chewing--well--you can't do it by advertising the firm's financial standing, its age,
or the purity of its output. That would do for an insurance company or a bank--but gum! Who
cares for purity! All they want to know is if it schmeckt gut." This last with a humorous glance
at Kaufmann.

The latter was scowling. Brainard was touching a tender spot.

"Well, what would you do?"

Brainard flushed. He felt the tone of sarcasm in the elder man's voice. He tightened his lips.
"At least, I'd change the name of the gum!"

"Change the name!" Kaufmann was horrified.

"Well, nobody wants 'Old Tulu.' They want 'New Tulu' or 'Fresh Tasty Tulu.' At least, something
to appeal to the imagination of Sadie-at-the-ribbon-counter."

"Oh!" observed Houghton. "And the name you suggest?"

"Well,--say something like 'Lulu Tulu.'"

"Gott!" Kaufmann struck the desk a blow with his fist. It was an insult to his father's memory.

Brainard rose. "I'm sorry," he said, "if I have offended. To save you any further bother, I'll
just cut it out after Saturday. I--thank you for the chance"--he smiled a little ruefully--"the
chance you have given me. Good day, gentlemen."

He turned on his heel and left the office.

       *       *       *       *       *

As John Houghton was driven home that night, he became suddenly conscious that he would soon
meet the apparition of the afternoon in the flesh. And though, of course, there was no need,
he found himself rehearsing the justification of his position. "Lulu Tulu" indeed! Imagine
the smile that would have illumined the faces at the club on such an announcement. The impudence
of the boy to have suggested it to him--him who had so often held forth upon the value of conservatism
in business! And he remembered with pride the speaker who had once said, "It is such solid
vertebrae as Mr. Houghton that form the backbone of our business world." That speaker had been
Bender, of the New York Dynamo Company. Poor Bender! The Western Electric Construction had
got him after all.

This line of thought caused Houghton to reach in his pocket and produce a letter. He went over
the significant part again.

"Our Mr. Byrnes reports the clinching of the subway vending-machine contract," it read, "and
this, together with our other business, will give us over half of the New York trade. With
this statement before us, we feel that we can make a winning fight if you still refuse to consider
our terms. In view of recent developments, we cannot repeat our former offer but if you will
consider sixty-seven as a figure----"

Sixty-seven! And a year before he would not have taken one hundred and ten! In the bitterness
of the moment, he wondered if he, too, would finally go the way that Bender had.

And then, as the butler swung the door back, he was recalled to the matter of Tom Brainard
by the sight of a familiar figure that floated toward him as airily as had its astral self
that afternoon.

He kissed her and went to his study. Just before dinner was not a time to discuss such things.
But later, as he looked across the candelabra at his daughter, all smiles and happiness in
that seat that had been her mother's, he regretted that he had not, for----

"Daddy," Dorothy was saying, "I got such a funny note from Tom this afternoon. He says there
has been a change at the office and that you will explain."

"Yes."

"Well----?" She paused eagerly. "It's something awfully good--I know."

Her father frowned and caught her eye. "Later," he said significantly.

The girl read the tone, and the gaiety of the moment before was gone. After that they ate in
silence.

One cigar--two cigars had been smoked when she stole into the library. Since coffee (whether
from design or chance he never knew), she had rearranged her hair. Now it was low on her neck
in a fashion of long ago, with a single curl that strayed over a white shoulder to her bosom.
She knelt at his side without a word.

He looked down at her. Somehow he had never seen her like this before--that curious womanly
expression.

"Tell me," was all she said.

And, as he told Tom Brainard's failure to fit in, he watched her closely. "I'm sorry," he concluded.

"So am I, daddy," she returned steadily; "because I am going to marry him."

"What?"

"Oh, you knew--you must have," she said, "when I asked you to give him the chance."

The father was silent. In fancy he again heard Dolly Warner promising, against her parents'
advice, to wait for her John to "get on in the world."

"Well?" he asked.

"Do you think you've given him a fair chance?"

He was restored to his usual poise. "I suppose he complained that I didn't."

Dorothy's eyes went wide. "No, he said that after I had heard the news from you, he would leave
everything to me."

"Oh!"

"But, father, I don't think you have been fair. Tom is right. I don't chew gum, do I?"

"Well----" He was indignant. Then he stopped thoughtfully. "No."

"But Mary downstairs does. She wouldn't be offended at 'Lulu Tulu.' I dare say she'd think
it 'just grand.'"

He returned no answer.

"Come, daddy," she went on. "New York has grown lots--even since I was little. And--and some
people get behind the times. They think they're being dignified when it's only that they're
antiquated."

He looked shrewdly at her. "I never heard you talk like that before. Where did you----"

"Tom said that a week ago," she admitted. "And he said, too, that he could double the results
if he only had full swing. Instead, you admit he's a mere clerk for that horrid Pepper. Oh,
daddy, daddy," she pleaded. "Give him a chance." Then her voice went low again. "I'm going
to marry him anyway," she said, "and you don't want this between. If he fails, I'll stand the
loss from what mother left me. Give him full swing--a real chance, daddy! He's going to be--your
son."

John Houghton looked into the earnest girlish face. He wound the curl about his finger. "Kaufmann
has always wanted to visit the Fatherland," he said irrelevantly.

She gave a quick, eager look. "And that Pepper could go on a vacation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Days drag very slowly at a summer resort, especially when one has promised not to write to
him. But Dorothy's father had kept his word, so she could but do the same. Behind, in the sweltering
city, in full charge for six weeks was Tom Brainard. His authority included permission to invent
and use any new labels or trade-marks he saw fit.

The girl at the seashore, however, was also busy--amusing her father that he might not give
too much time to thinking. And then, when three of the six weeks had passed, came the accident
to the motor car.

She was told that with rest and no worries, her father would recover in a week or two. She
cheerfully fitted into the rôle of assistant to the nurse in charge, and, as soon as the doctor
allowed, prepared to read his mail to him as he lay, eyes and head bandaged. But as she opened
and glanced over the accumulated letters, she suddenly went pale. She read one in particular
from end to end, and then, with a scared, furtive look at the bandaged figure, slipped it into
a pocket.

Later, when her father had finished dictating to her, she answered the concealed letter herself.

Again the days drifted. The bandages were removed; but still the girl continued to scan the
mail. Her vigilance was rewarded. She flushed over a second letter which, with one in a worn
envelope, she took to her father.

He saw the careworn expression. "My little girl has been overworking," he said.

She held out the worn letter. "I've had this for some time--but--but I waited for something
more, and here it is." She showed the other.

He took the first, and when he had finished, his hand was trembling.

"I regret to report that things are in a chaos," it ran. "All of the regular advertising has
been withdrawn. The usual entertainment money for salesmen classed under this head has been
stopped. In consequence, our city trade has tumbled fearfully--and you know how bad it was
before. The worst news I have to offer is in regard to Mr. Brainard personally. Our detective
reports that his time outside is spent in most questionable company. He has been seen drinking
at roof-gardens with a certain dissipated pugilist named Little Sullivan, and was traced with
this man to the apartment of a song-and-dance woman named Violette. He seems to be spending
money extravagantly and visits certain bohemian quarters in the vicinity of Jones Street, where
he puts in his time with disreputable-looking men. I beg leave to advise immediate action.--Mowbray."

"My God!" groaned Houghton. This explained that derisive offer of fifty-one from Consolidated
Pepsin.

"And you kept this from me?"

"They said not to worry you," she said. "I--I've had enough for two. Besides, I answered it."

"You did! What----?"

"I told them to wait a little longer."

The father groaned again.

"I just had to, daddy; and then today this letter came."

He seized it eagerly. It read: "You were right about waiting. Suspend all action."

"What does it mean?" she asked.

"We'll find out tomorrow," he answered grimly.

The 4:30 train gave John Houghton just time to reach the office before it closed. Dorothy went
home. Her father, roused by the evil news of the day before, had impressed her with all that
it might mean in a material way. As though that mattered!--as though anything could hurt her
more! She would have been willing to go with Tom Brainard in rags before--but now!

She sat by the telephone with clenched fists, her traveling veil still pushed up on her hat,
the lines that had come into her face during the past week deepening with the dusk. At last--a
long, sharp ring! "Yes--father--not dine at home--meet you at the Yolland--a guest. Yes--but
about Tom--what?--7:30--But about Tom, daddy? Good-by?!! But, daddy!!!"

It was no use. He had hung up. She called feverishly for the office, but the reply was, "They
do not answer." Mechanically she went up to her room. "The blue mousseline, Susan," she said.

As the maid laid it out, she walked the floor. Through the window the park lay green and inviting.
She longed to fly to the cool grass and run--and run----

From below came the loud, rasping notes of a street-piano that, in some incomprehensible fashion,
had wandered to the deserted row of houses. The noise, for all that there was a pleasing swing
to the air, irritated her. She threw the man a quarter. "Go away," she waved.

At last the maid said her mistress was ready, and Dorothy, without questioning the decision,
allowed herself to be put into the brougham.

The drive seemed hours long, and then--her father's face told her nothing. Without a word,
he led her to a reception-room. As they entered, a figure sprang to meet them.

For a moment she hesitated. Then, "Tom!" she cried, and caught his hand.

He saw the whiteness of her face, and all the yearnings of their separation matched it upon his.

"Dorothy!" he faltered.

Her father interrupted. "Tom is to explain how he has quadrupled our business in the last week."

A sudden weakness seized her. She followed them unsteadily. Seated at a table, however, she
was able to smile again. At that moment, the orchestra, striking up, suddenly caught her attention.
"Tum--tum-tum--tum-tum--tum"--that haunting, swinging melody of the street-piano.

"What tune is that?" she asked.

Brainard smiled. "That is a tune that has suddenly become popular. Any night you may see hundreds
of East Side children dancing on the asphalt and singing it."

"Yes," she said. "I heard it on a street-piano."

"It's called," he went on, '"My Lulu Tulu Girl.' All the grinders have it. Billy Tompkins,
Noughty-three, who lives in the Jones Street social settlement, worked that for me. Those dagoes
worship him--saved a kid's life or something."

A light came into John Houghton's eyes.

"That's part of the scheme. Aspwell wrote the song. I found him down in bohemia working on
an opera. But, for the sake of old days in the senior extravaganza, he turned off 'My Lulu
Tulu Girl.' You know those orders on your desk are for our new brand, 'Lulu Tulu.' The song
was introduced two weeks ago at the Metropolitan Roof by Violette, a young lady who married
our old football trainer, Little Sullivan. We'll hear her later--I have tickets. Then we'll
go to Leith's; there's a turn there by 'Jim Bailey and his Six Lulu Tulu Girls'--rather vulgar
(while they dance they chew the gum and perform calisthenics with it) but it seems to go. Then----"

"Tom!"

"After we've dined, I'll show you our regular magazine and newspaper advertising in the reading-room--double
space. You see, I couldn't ask you to increase, so I stopped it for a time and saved up. But
I hope you'll stand for it regularly. It's mainly pictures of Miss. Lulu Tulu in a large Florodora
hat, with verses below apostrophizing the poetry of motion of her jaws. Then there's a line
of limericks about the adventures of the 'Lulu Tulu Gummies'--small gum-headed tykes--always
in trouble until they find Lulu. I got Phillips to do that as a personal favor."

"Also Noughty-something, I suppose," remarked Houghton.

"Yes. But he graduated before my time. I knew his work in the college annual. He's in the magazines
now. Then I got Professor Wheaton--'Jimmy the Grind' we used to call him--his folks wanted
him to be a poet--imagine Jimmy a poet!--I got Professor Wheaton to give us some readers on
'Tulu as a Salivary Stimulant,' 'The Healthful Effect of Pure Saliva on Food Products' and
'The Degenerative Effect of Artificially Relieving an Organ of its Proper Functions.' That
hits the Pepsin people, you see----"

And so it ran--until he had covered his plan fully, and Dorothy's face with happy smiles.

"Tom," said the father, "if I had opened that letter instead of Dolly!"

Dorothy suddenly became demure under their gaze and sought to change the subject. "Then you
admit, daddy, that a college man is of some use?"

"I'll admit that Tom got the business. But that was because he is naturally clever and business-like,
not because----"

"Just a moment," said Brainard. "I think I can show that you're mistaken. I found out that
Pepper was doing the wrong thing--by the first rule of criticism (freshman English): 'What
is the author trying to do? Does he do it? Is it worth doing?' Substitute 'advertising man'
for 'author' and you have a business that is worth doing (since you continue it)--and by the
other two questions I saw his incongruity of subject-matter and expression.' My economics taught
me the 'law of supply and demand.' 'Analytical research of original authorities' taught me
where the demand was. There was only the problem of a cause to stimulate it. Through deductive
logic' and 'psychology' I got the cause that would appeal, and the effect worked out in an
increased demand which we were ready to supply--just like a problem in math."

The elder man smiled. "I don't understand a word you say, but it seems to have worked well.
In the future, bring in as many of your Noughty friends as we need. I'll answer for Kaufmann."

The other shook his head. "I'm not sure they would be any too anxious."

Houghton gasped in surprise. "What's that--they wouldn't be anxious to go into business! Why not?"

"Why not?" There was equal amazement in the younger man's tone. "Would you be anxious to leave
a place where you're surrounded by friends you've tried--friends that won't stab you in the
back the next minute and call it a 'business deal'--where you're respected and in control of
things, and plunge out to become a freshman in the world-life, to do the sorting and trying
all over again?"

"I remember--I remember----"

"And besides, what right has any one to assume that business is above art, charity or even
mere learning? Billy Tompkins, in the slums helping dagoes, is a failure to his father--so
is Aspwell with his opera--so is Williams with his spectacles in his lab. But--who knows--when
the Great Business is finally balanced----" He stopped, conscious that he was growing too rhetorical.

"If you loved college ideals so much more than business," observed Houghton, "then why did
you come to us?"

A different light stole into the younger man's eyes. "Because"--he answered, "because I loved
something else better than either." And he reached his hand under the cloth to one who understood.

That is all--except that the next offer of Consolidated Pepsin was, "Will you please name your
own terms?"

THE TEWANA

BY

HERMAN WHITAKER

Reprinted from The Blue Mule A Western Magazine of Stories, of February, 1906 by permission

SHE WAS a Tewana of the Tehuantepec Isthmus, a primal woman, round-armed, deep-breasted, shapely
as the dream on which Canova modeled Venus. Her skin was of the rich gold hue that marks the
blood unmuddied by Spanish strain; to see her, poised on a rich hip by the river's brink, wringing
her tresses after the morning bath, it were justifiable to mistake her for some beautiful bronze.
Moreover, it were easy to see her, for, in Tehuantepec, innocence is thoughtless as in old
Eden. When Paul Steiner passed her one morning, she gave him the curious open-eyed stare of
a deer, bade him a pleasant "Buenos días, Señor!" and would have proceeded, undisturbed, with
her toilet, but that he spoke. In this he was greatly mistaken. Gringos there are--praise the
saints!--who can judge Tehuantepec by the insight of kindred purity, but Paul had to learn
by the more uncomfortable method of a stone in the face.

He ought not, however, to be too severely handled for his dulness. Though a mining engineer,
nature had endowed him with little beyond the algebraic qualities necessary to the profession;
a German-American, a dull birth and heredity had predestined him for that class which clothes
its morality in fusty black and finds safety in following its neighbor in the cut of its clothes
and conduct. As then, he was not planned for original thinking, it is not at all surprising
that he should--when pitchforked by Opportunity into the depths of tropical jungles--lose his
moral bearings, fail to recognize a virtue that went in her own golden skin, and so go down
before a temptation that, of old, populated the sexless desert.

That his error continued in the face of Andrea's stone is certainly more remarkable, though
this also should be charged rather against her mismarksmanship than to the wearing quality
of his electro-plate morality. It is doubtful if even the ancient Jews had found "stoning"
as efficacious a "cure for souls" had they thrown wide as she. Anyway, Paul stood "unconvicted,"
as the revivalists have it, and being moved to chagrin instead of shame, he carried the story
of Andrea's surprising modesty to Bachelder.

Here was a man of other parts. An artist, he had traced the spinning meridians over desert
and sea, following the fluttering wing of the muse till she rewarded his deathless hope by
pausing for him in this small Indian town. Expecting to stay a week, he had remained fifteen
years, failing to exhaust in that long time a tithe of its form and color. Screened by tropical
jungle, a mask of dark palms laced with twining bejucas, it sat like a wonderfully blazoned
cup in a wide green saucer that was edged with the purple of low environing hills--a brimming
cup of inspiration. Save where some oaken grill supplied an ashen note, its adobe streets burned
in smoldering rose, purple and gold--the latter always predominant. It glowed in the molten
sunlight, shone in the soft satin of a woman's skin; the very dust rose in auriferous clouds
from the wooden-wheeled ox-carts. But for its magenta tiling, the pillared market stood, a
huge monochrome, its deep yellows splashed here and there with the crimson of the female hucksters'
dresses. This was their every-day wear--a sleeveless bodice, cut low over the matchless amplitudes
and so short that the smooth waist showed at each uplift of the round, bronze arms; a skirt
that was little more than a cloth wound about the limbs; a shawl, all of deep blood color.
Small wonder that he had stayed on, and on, and on, while the weeks merged into months, and
months into years.

He lived in the town's great house, an old feudal hacienda with walls two yards thick, recessed
windows oaken grilled, and a pleasant patio where the hidalgo could take his ease under cocoanut
palms and lemon trees while governments went to smash without. Here Bachelder was always to
be found in the heat of the day, and here he listened with huge disgust to Paul's story. Because
of their faith, strength and purity--according to their standards--he had always sworn by the
Tewana women, setting them above all others, and though a frank sinner against accepted moral
codes, he would never have confused nudity with vice.

"Man!" he exclaimed--so loudly that Rosa, his housekeeper, imagined that something was going
wrong again with the painting--"Man! all the dollars you will ever earn would buy nothing more
than her stone! If you want her, you will have to marry her."

"Oh, don't look so chopfallen!" he went on, scornfully, when Paul blinked. "I mean marriage
as she counts it. You will have to court her for a couple of months--flowers, little gifts,
small courtesies, that sort of thing; then, if she likes you, she will come and keep your house.
When, later, you feel like settling down in the bosom of respectability, there won't be a shred
of law to hold you."

Now if Paul lacked wit to analyze and apply to his own government a moral law that has evolved
from the painful travail of the generations, it does not follow that he was too stupid to feel
irony. Reddening, he put forth the usual declaimer of honorable intention with the glib tongue
of passion. He meant well by the girl! Would give her a good home, find her better than she
had ever been found in her life! As for marrying? He was not of the marrying kind! Never would!
and so on, finishing with a vital question--did Bachelder know where she lived?

His color deepened under the artist's sarcastic glance. "So that's what you're after? I wondered
why you picked me for a father confessor. Well, I don't, but you won't have any trouble in
finding her. All the women sell something; she's sure to be on the market in the morning. You
will get her quite easily. The girls seem to take pride in keeping a Gringo's house--I don't
know why, unless it be that they are so dazzled by the things we have that they cannot see
us for what we are."

       *       *       *       *       *

A thousand crimson figures were weaving in and out the market's chrome pillars when Paul entered
next morning, but though it was hard to single one person from the red confusion, luck led
him almost immediately to where Andrea stood, a basket of tortillas at her feet. Lacking customers,
just then, she leaned against a pillar, her scarlet flaming against its chrome, thoughtful,
pensive, as Bachelder painted her for "The Enganchada," the girl sold for debt. Her shawl lay
beside her basket, so her hair, that had flown loose since the morning bath, fell in a cataract
over the polished amplitudes of bosom and shoulders. Save when feeling shot them with tawny
flashes--as waving branches filter mottled sunlight on brown waters--her eyes were dark as
the pools of Lethe, wherein men plunge and forget the past. They brought forgetfulness to Paul
of his moral tradition, racial pride, the carefully conned apology which he did not remember
until, an hour later, he fed her entire stock in trade to his dog. It was better so. Black,
brown or white women are alike sensitive to the language of flowers, and the lilies he left
in her basket served him more sweetly than could his stammering tongue. Next morning, curiosity
replaced hostility in her glance, and when he left the market, her brown gaze followed him
beyond the portals. Needs not, however, to linger over the courtship. Sufficient that color
of skin does not affect the feminine trait that forgiveness comes easier when the offense was
provoked by one's own beauty; the story goes on from the time that Andrea moved into his house
with a stock of household gear that extorted musical exclamations from all her girl friends.

To their housekeeping Andrea contributed only her handsome body with a contained cargo of unsuspected
qualities and virtues that simply dazzled Paul as they cropped out upon the surface. In public
a Tewana bears herself staidly, carrying a certain dignity of expression that of itself reveals
how, of old, her forbears came to place limits to the ambition of the conquering Aztec and
made even Spanish dominion little more than an uncomfortable name. Though, through courtship,
Andrea's stern composure had shown no trace of a thaw, it yet melted like snow under a south
wind when she was once ensconced in their little home. Moreover, she unmasked undreamed of
batteries, bewildering Paul with infinite variety of feminine complexities. She would be arch,
gay, saucy, and in the next breath fall into one of love's warm silences, watching him with
eyes of molten bronze. She taught him the love of the tropics without transcending modesty.
Also she astonished him, negatively, by the absence of those wide differences of nature and
feeling between her and the cultured women of his own land that reading in the primal school
of fiction had led him to expect. He learned from her that woman is always woman under any
clime or epoch. The greater strength of her physique lessened, perhaps, the vine-like tendency,
yet she clung sufficiently to satisfy the needs of his masculinity; and she displayed the feminine
unreason, at once so charming and irritating, with sufficient coquetry to freshen her love.
Her greatest charm, however, lay in the dominant quality of brooding motherhood, the birthright
of primal women and the very essence of femininity. After one of those sweet silences, she
would steal on him from behind, and pull his head to her bosom with such a squeeze as a loving
mother gives her son.

Yet, under even this mood, her laughter lay close to the surface, and nothing tapped its merry
flow quicker than Paul's Spanish. Picking up the language haphazard, he had somehow learned
to apply the verb tumblar to describe the pouring out of coffee, and he clung to it after correction
with a persistence that surely inhered in his dogged German blood. "Tumbarlo el café!" he would
say, and she would repeat it, faithfully mimicking his accent.

"Tumble out the coffee!" following it with peals of laughter. Or, turning up a saucy face,
she would ask, "Shall I tumble out more coffee?" and again the laughter which came as readily
at her own misfit attempts at English.

These, few and simple, were learned of Bachelder's woman, and sprung on Paul as surprises on
his return from visiting the mining properties, which required his frequent presence. For instance,
slipping to his knee on one such occasion, with the great heart of her pulsing against him,
she sighed: "I love thee, lovest thou me?"

A lesson from Bachelder pleased him less. Knowing Paul's pride in his German ancestry, and
having been present when, in seasons of swollen pride, he had reflected invidiously in Andrea's
presence on Mexico and all things Mexican, the artist, in a wicked moment, taught her to lisp
"Hoch der Kaiser!" lèse-majesté that almost caused Paul a fainting-fit.

"You shouldn't have taught her that," he said to Bachelder. But the mischief was done. Whenever,
thereafter, through torment of insect or obsession of national pride, he animadverted on her
country, she silenced him with the treasonable expression.

She learned other than English from Bachelder's woman, sweating out the dog days in Rosa's
kitchen, experimenting with the barbaric dishes Gringos love. She slaved for his comfort, keeping
his linen, her house and self so spotlessly clean that as Paul's passion waned, affection grew
up in its place--the respectful affection that, at home, would have afforded a permanent basis
for a happy marriage. When, a year later, their baby came, no northern benedict could have
been more proudly happy.

Watching him playing with the child, Bachelder would wonder if his union also would terminate
like all the others of his long experience. In her, for it was a girl baby, Paul's fairness
worked out, as she grew, in marvelous delicacies of cream and rose, weaving, moreover, a golden
woof through the brown of her hair. From her mother she took a lithe perfection of form. At
two she was well started for a raving beauty, and as much through his love for her as for Andrea,
Paul had come, like Bachelder, to swear by the Tewana women.

He might have been swearing by them yet, but his company's business suddenly called him north,
and no man could have bidden a white wife more affectionate farewell or have been more sure
of his own return. "It is a comfort to know that your woman won't go gadding while you are
away, and that is more than a fellow can make sure of at home." These were his last words to
Bachelder.

He was to be absent two months, but after he had reported adversely on a mine in Sonora, he
was ordered to expert a group in far Guerrera, where the mountains turn on edge and earth tosses
in horrible tumult. Then came a third order to report in New York for personal conference.
Thus the months did sums in simple addition while Andrea waited, serenely confident of his
return. Not that she lacked experience of deserted wives, or based hope on her own attractions.
Her furious mother love simply could not form, much less harbor, the possibility of Paul's
deserting their pretty Lola.

And, barring her loneliness, the year was kind to her, feeding her mother love with small social
triumphs. For one, Lola was chosen to sit with three other tots, the most beautiful of Tewana's
children, at the feet of the Virgin in the Theophany of the "Black Christ" at the eastern fiesta.
From morning to mirk midnight, it was a hard vigil. By day the vaulted church reeked incense;
by night a thousand candles guttered under the dark arches, sorely afflicting small, weary
eyelids; yet Lola sat it out like a small thoroughbred, earning thereby the priest's kindly
pat and her mother's devoted worship.

Then, on her third saint day, the small girl donned her first fiesta costume, a miniature of
the heirlooms which descend from mother to daughter, each generation striving to increase the
magnificence of the costume just as it strove to add to the gold pieces in the chain which
did triple duty as hoard, dowry and necklace. Andrea subtracted several English sovereigns
from her own to start Lola's, and, with the American gold eagle, the gift of Bachelder, her
padrino, godfather, they made an affluent beginning for so small a girl. As for the costume?
Its silk, plush, velours, were worked by Andrea's clever fingers curiously and wondrously,
even when judged by difficult Tewana standards. Bachelder painted the small thing, kneeling
by her mother's side before the great gold altar. Her starched skirt, with its band of red
velours, stands of itself leveling her head, so that she looks for all the world like a serious
cherub peering out from a wonderfully embroidered bath-cabinet. But ah! the serious devotion
of the faces! The muse Bachelder had followed so faithfully was hovering closely when his soul
flamed out upon that canvas. It ranks with his "Enganchada." Either would bring him fame, yet
they rest, face to face, in a dusty locker, awaiting the day when time or death shall cure
the ache that a glimpse of either brings him.

Two months after that canvas was put away, eighteen counting from the day of his departure,
Bachelder walked, one day, down to the primitive post-office to see if the mail that was due
from the little fishing port of Salina Cruz contained aught for him. Waded would better describe
his progress, for it was the middle of the rains; water filled the air, dropping in sheets
from a livid sky; the streets were rivers running full over the cobble curbs. Such white planters
as came in occasionally from the jungle country had been housefast upon their plantations for
this month, and, having the town pretty much to himself, the artist's thought turned naturally
to Paul, who used to bring doubtful mitigation to his isolation.

He had written the artist twice, but now six months had elapsed since the last letter. "He'll
never come back," the artist muttered. "Poor Andrea! But it is better--now."

Warm with the pity the thought inspired, he turned the corner into the street that led to the
post-office, and was almost run down by the first mule of a train that came driving through
the rain.

"Bachelder!" the rider cried.

It was surely Paul. Pulling up his beast, he thrust a wet hand from under his rain poncha,
then, turning in his saddle, he spoke to the woman who rode behind him, "Ethel, this is Mr.
Bachelder."

The alternative had happened! As a small hand thrust back the hood of mackintosh, Bachelder
found himself staring at a sweet face, while an equally sweet greeting was drowned by echoing
questions in his mind. "Good God!" he first thought. "Why did he bring her here?" And upon
that immediately followed, "How ever did he get her?"

An evening spent with the pair at the small Mexican hotel increased his wonder. Pleasant, pretty,
of a fine sensibility and intellectual without loss of femininity, the girl would have been
fitly mated with a man of the finest clay. How could she have married Paul? Bachelder thought,
and correctly, that he discerned the reason in a certain warmth of romantic feeling that tinged
her speech and manner. Daughter of an Episcopal clergyman in Paul's native town, she had sighed
for something different from the humdrum of small teas, dinners, parochial calls, and when
Paul came to her with the glamour of tropical travel upon him, she married, mistaking the glamour
for him.

"She loved me for the dangers I had passed!" the artist mused, quoting Shakespeare, on his
way home. "What a tragedy when she discovers him for a spurious Othello!"

Dropping into the studio next morning, Paul answered the other question. "Why not?" he asked,
with a touch of ancestral stolidity. "My work is here. Andrea?" His next words plainly revealed
that while his moral plating had cracked and peeled under tropical heat, the iron convention
beneath had held without fracture. He began: "It was a beastliness that we committed----"

"That you committed," Bachelder sharply corrected. "And what of the child?"

Blinking in the old fashion, Paul went on, "I was coming to that. She cannot be allowed to
grow up a little Mexican. I shall adopt her and have her properly educated." Here he looked
at Bachelder as though expecting commendation for his honorable intention, and, receiving none,
went on, dilating on his plans for the child as if resolved to earn it. Yet, setting aside
this patent motive, it was easy to see as he warmed to his subject that Andrea had not erred
in counting on Lola to bring him back. With her beauty she would do any man proud! The whole
United States would not be able to produce her rival! She should have the best that money could
give her!

Wondering at the curious mixture of class egotism, paternal tenderness and twisted morality,
Bachelder listened to the end, then said, "Of course, Mrs. Steiner approves of a ready-made
family?"

Paul's proud feathers draggled a little, and he reddened. "Well--you see--she thinks Lola is
the daughter of a dead mining friend. Some day, of course, I'll tell her. In fact, the knowledge
will grow on her. But not now. It wouldn't do. She couldn't understand."

"No?" But the quiet sarcasm was wasted on Paul, and the artist continued, "Aren't you leaving
Andrea out of your calculations?"

Paul ruffled like an angry gobbler. His eyes took on an ugly gleam, his jaw stuck out, his
expression incarnated Teutonic obstinacy. "Oh, she'll have to be fixed. Luckily it doesn't
take much to buy these savage women; their feelings are all on the surface. I'll give her the
house, furniture, and a hundred dollars cash. That should make up for the loss of----"

"----a husband?" Bachelder's face darkened. Throughout the conversation he had worn an air
of suppression, as though holding, by an effort, something back. Now he straightened with a
movement that was analogous to the flexure of a coiled spring. His lips opened, closed again,
and he went on with his quiet questioning. "For a husband, yes. They are easy stock to come
by. But not for the child of her labor. Supposing she refuses?"

Paul's eyes glinted under his frown. "Then the Jefe-Politico earns the hundred dollars and
the law gives her to me."

The spring uncoiled. "Never! She died a month ago of yellow fever."

Under Teuton phlegm lies an hysteria that rivals that of the Latin races. Paul's flame died
to ashes and he burst out sobbing, throwing his hands up and out with ungainly gestures. Looking
down upon his awkward grief, Bachelder half regretted the just anger that caused him to slip
the news like a lightning bolt; he would have felt sorrier but that he perceived Paul's sorrow
rooted in the same colossal egotism that would have sacrificed the mother on the altars of
its vast conceit. He knew that Paul was grieving for himself, for lost sensations of pride,
love and pleasure that he could never experience again. When the ludicrous travesty had partly
spent itself, he stemmed the tide with a question.

"If you don't care to see Andrea, I can make the settlements you hinted at."

Paul glanced up, stupidly resentful, through his tears. "The child is dead. That is all off."

"You will do nothing for her?" As much to prop an opinion of human nature that was already
too low for comfort as in Andrea's interest, Bachelder asked the question.

"She has the house furnishings," Paul sullenly answered. "That leaves her a sight better off
than she was before she knew me."

Rising, the artist walked over to the window. "The river is rising," he said, when he could
trust himself to speak. "Another foot, and away goes the bridge. When do you go to the mine?"

"Tomorrow."

"Mrs. Steiner goes with you?"

"No, too wet."

Bachelder hesitated. "I'd offer you my quarters, but--you see I am neither married nor unmarried."

"No!" Paul agreed with ponderous respectability. "It would never do. Besides, I've hired a
house of the Jefe-Politico; the one that crowns the Promontory. When the rain slacks we'll
move out to the mine."

"There is one thing I should like," he added as he rose to go. "If you would have a stone put
over the child's grave--something nice--you're a better judge than me,--I'll----"

"Too late," the artist interrupted. "Andrea broke up her necklace; put savings of eighteen
generations into the finest tomb in the cemetery." He looked curiously at Paul, but his was
that small order of mind which persistently fixes responsibility for the most inevitable calamity
upon some person. To the day of his death he would go on taxing the child's death against Andrea;
he did not even comment on this last proof of her devoted love.

After he was gone, Bachelder returned to his window, just in time to see the bridge go. A thin
stream in summer, meandering aimlessly between wide banks, the river now ran a full half-mile
wide, splitting the town with its yeasty race. An annual occurrence, this was a matter of small
moment to the severed halves. Each would pursue the even tenor of its way till the slack of
the rains permitted communication by canoe and the rebuilding of the bridge. But it had special
significance now in that Andrea lived on the other bank.

He wondered if the news of Paul's return had crossed, muttering: "Poor girl, poor girl!" Adding,
a moment later: "But happier than the other. Poor little Desdemona!"

       *       *       *       *       *

How melancholy is the voice of a flood! Its resurgent dirge will move a new-born babe to frightened
wailing, and stirs in strong men a vague uneasiness that roots in the vast and calamitous experience
of the race. Call of hungry waters, patter of driving rain, sough of the weird wind, it requires
good company and a red-coal fire to offset their moanings of eternity. Yet though the fireless
tropics could not supply one, and she lacked the other, the storm voices were hardly responsible
for Ethel Steiner's sadness the third morning after her arrival.

Neither was it due to the fact that Paul had failed to come in the preceding night from the
mine. Seeming relieved rather than distressed, she had gone quietly to bed. No, it was neither
the storm, his absence, nor any of the small miseries that afflict young wives. Poor Desdemona!
The curtain was rising early on the tragedy which Bachelder foresaw. Already the glamour was
falling from Paul to the tropics, where it rightfully belonged; this morning she was living
her bitter hour, fighting down the premonition of a fatal mistake.

What with her thoughtful pauses, she made but a slow toilet, and when the last rebellious curl
had been coaxed to its place behind her small ear, she turned, sighing, to the window. One
glance, and she started back, pale, clutching her hands. A rocky snout, thrusting far out into
the belly of the river's great bow, the Promontory stood high above the ordinary flood level.
Once, in far-away Aztec times, a Tewana tradition had it that a cloudburst in the rains had
swept it clear of houses, and now Time's slow cycle had brought the same deadly coincidence.
Where, last night, a hundred lights had flickered below her windows, a boil of yellow waters
spread, cutting off her house, the last and highest, from the mainland. Black storm had drowned
the cries of fleeing householders. The flood's mighty voice, bellowing angrily for more victims
as it swallowed house after house, had projected but a faint echo into her dreams. Now, however,
she remembered that Carmencita, her new maid, had failed to bring in the morning coffee.

Wringing her hands and loudly lamenting the deadly fear that made her forget her mistress,
Carmencita, poor girl, was in the crowd that was helping Paul and Bachelder to launch a freight
canoe. When Paul--who had ridden in early from the little village, where he had been storm-stayed--had
tried to impress a crew, the peon boatman had sworn volubly that no pole would touch bottom
and that one might as well try to paddle the town as a heavy canoe against such a flood. But
when Bachelder stepped in and manned the big sweep, a half-dozen followed. Notwithstanding,
their river wisdom proved. Paddling desperately, they gained no nearer than fifty yards to
the pale face at the window.

"Don't be afraid!" Bachelder shouted, as they swept by. "We'll get you next time!"

If the walls did not melt? Already the flood was licking with hungry tongues the adobe bricks
where the plaster had bulged and fallen, and an hour would fly while they made a landing and
dragged the canoe back for another cast. The boatmen knew! Their faces expressed, anticipated
that which happened as they made the landing half a mile below. Paul saw it first. Through
the swift passage he sat, facing astern, helplessly clutching the gunwale, and his cry, raucous
as that of a maimed animal, signaled the fall of the house. Sobbing, he collapsed on the bank.

Bachelder looked down upon him. Momentarily stunned, his thought returned along with a feeling
of relief that would have framed itself thus in words: "Poor Desdemona! Now she will never know!"

"Señor! Señor! Mira!" A boatman touched his shoulder.

Two heads were swirling down the flood, a light and a dark. Bachelder instantly knew Ethel,
but, as yet, he could not make out the strong swimmer who was at such infinite pains to hold
the fair head above water. Though, time and again, the dark head went under for smotheringly
long intervals, Ethel's never once dipped, and, up or down, the swimmer battled fiercely, angling
across the flood. She--for long hair stamped her a woman--gained seventy yards shoreward while
floating down two hundred. Three hundred gave her another fifty. So, rising and sinking, she
drifted with her burden down upon Paul and Bachelder. At fifty yards the artist caught a glimpse
of her face, but not till she was almost under their hands did Paul recognize the swimmer.

"Andrea!" he shouted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reassured by Bachelder's cheery shout, Ethel had busied herself collecting her watch and other
trinkets from the bureau till a smacking of wet feet caused her to turn, startled. A woman
stood in the door, a woman of matchless amplitudes, such as of old tempted the gods from heaven.
Stark naked, save for the black cloud that dripped below her waist, her bronze beauty was framed
by the ponderous arch.

"I don't know who you are," Ethel said, recovering, "but you are very beautiful, and, under
the circumstances, welcome. Under ordinary conditions, your advent would have been a trifle
embarrassing. I must find you a shawl before the canoes come. Here, take this blanket."

She little imagined how embarrassing the visitation might have proved under very ordinary conditions.
Though the news of Paul's return did cross before the bridge was carried away, Andrea did not
hear it till that morning, and she would never have had it from a Tewana neighbor. They pitied
the bereavement to which widowhood in the most cruel of forms was now added. But among them
she unfortunately counted a peon woman of the upper Mexican plateau, one of the class which
took from the Conquest only Spanish viciousness to add to Aztec cruelty. Jealous of Andrea's
luck--as they had deemed it--in marriage, Pancha had thirsted for the opportunity which came
as they drew water together that morning from the brink of the flood.

"'Tis the luck of us all!" she exclaimed, malevolently ornamenting her evil tidings. "They
take their pleasure of us, these Gringos, then when the hide wrinkles, ho for a prettier! They
say Tewana hath not such another as his new flame, and thy house is a hovel to that he fits
up for her on the Promontory."

Here the hag paused, for two good reasons. That the barbed shaft might sink deep and rankle
from Andrea's belief that her supplanter was a girl of her tribe, but principally because,
just then, she went down under the ruins of her own olla. A fighter, after her kind, with many
a cutting to her credit, she cowered like a snarling she-wolf among the sharp potsherds cowed
by the enormous anger she had provoked; lay and watched while the tall beauty ripped shawl,
slip and skirt from her magnificent limbs, then turned and plunged into the flood. Pancha rose
and shook her black fist, hurling curses after.

"May the alligators caress thy limbs, the fishes pluck thine eyes, the wolves crack thy bleached
bones on the strand."

That was the lightest of them, but, unheeding Andrea swam on. As her own house stood in the
extreme skirt of the town, the Promontory lay more than a mile below, but she could see neither
it nor the night's devastation because of the river's bend. Because of the same bend, she had
the aid of the current, which set strongly over to the other shore, but apart from this the
river was one great danger. Floating logs, huge trees, acres of tangled greenery, the sweepings
of a hundred miles of jungle, covered its surface with other and ghastlier trove. Here the
saurians of Pancha's curse worried a drowned pig, there they fought over a cow's swollen carcass;
yet because of carrion taste or food plethora, they let her by. There an enormous saber, long
and thick as a church, turned and tumbled, threshing air and water with enormous spreading
branches, creating dangerous swirls and eddies. These she avoided, and, having swum the river
at ebb and flood every day of her life from a child, she now easily clove its roar and tumble;
swam on, her heat unabated by the water's chill, till, sweeping around the bend, she sighted
the lone house on the Promontory.

That gave her pause. Had death, then, robbed her anger? The thought broke the spring of her
magnificent energy. Feeling at last the touch of fatigue, she steered straight for the building
and climbed in, to rest, at a lower window, without a thought of its being occupied till Ethel
moved above.

Who shall divine her thoughts as, standing there in the door, she gazed upon her rival? Did
she not recognize her as such, or was she moved by the touch of sorrow, aftermath of the morning's
bitterness, that still lingered on the young wife's face? Events seemed to predicate the former,
but, be that as it may, the eyes which grief and despair had heated till they flamed like small
crucibles of molten gold, now cooled to their usual soft brown; smiling, she refused the proffered
blanket.

"Ven tu! Ven tu!" she exclaimed, beckoning. Her urgent accent and gesture carried her meaning,
and without question Ethel followed down to a lower window.

"But the canoe?" she objected, when Andrea motioned for her to disrobe. "It will soon be here!"

"Canoa?" From the one word Andrea caught her meaning. "No hay tiempo. Mira!"

Leaning out, Ethel looked and shrank back, her inexperience convinced by a single glance at
the wall. She assisted the strong hands to rip away her encumbering skirts. It took only a
short half-minute, and with that afforded time for a small femininity to come into play. Placing
her own shapely arm against Ethel's, Andrea murmured soft admiration at the other's marvelous
whiteness. But it was done in a breath. Slipping an arm about Ethel's waist, Andrea jumped
with her from the window, one minute before the soaked walls collapsed.

If Ethel's head had remained above, she might have retained her presence of mind, and so have
made things easier for her saviour, but, not supposing that the whole world contained a mature
woman who could not swim, Andrea loosed her as they took the water. A quick dive partially
amended the error, retrieving Ethel, but not her composure. Coming up, half-choked, she grappled
Andrea, and the two went down together. The Tewana could easily have broken the white girl's
grip and--have lost her. Instead, she held her breath and presently brought her senseless burden
to the surface.

Of itself, the struggle was but a small thing to her strength, but coming on top of the long
swim under the shock and play of emotion, it left her well nigh spent. Yet she struggled shoreward,
battling, waging the war of the primal creature that yields not till Death himself reenforces
bitter odds.

To this exhaustion, the tales that float in Tehuantepec lay her end, and Bachelder has never
taken time to contradict them. But as she floated almost within reach of his hand, she steadied
at Paul's shout as under an accession of sudden strength, and looked at her erstwhile husband.
Then, if never before, she knew--him, as well as his works! From him her glance flashed to
the fair face at her shoulder. What power of divination possessed her? Or was it Bachelder's
fancy? He swears to the chosen few, the few who understand, that her face lit with the same
glory of tender pity that she held over her sick child. Then, before they could reach her,
she shot suddenly up till her bust gleamed wet to the waist, turned, and dived, carrying down
the senseless bride.

Shouting, Bachelder also dived--in vain. In vain, the dives of his men. Death, that mighty
potentate, loves sweetness full well as a shining mark. Swiftly, silently, a deep current bore
them far out on the flooded lands and there scoured a sepulcher safe from saurian teeth, beyond
the scope Pancha's curse. Later, the jungle flowed in after the receding waters and wreathed
over the twin grave morning-glories pure as the white wife, glorious orchids rich as Andrea's
bronze.

HERE ENDS THE SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION BEING SHORT STORIES BY CALIFORNIA WRITERS COMPILED
BY THE BOOK COMMITTEE OF THE SPINNERS' CLUB FOR THE SPINNERS' BENEFIT FUND INA D. COOLBRITH
FIRST BENEFICIARY ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS WESTERN ARTISTS THE DECORATIONS BY SPENCER WRIGHT
THE TYPOGRAPHY DESIGNED BY J. H. NASH PUBLISHED BY PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY AND PRINTED FOR THEM
AT THE TOMOYE PRESS NEW YORK NINETEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN