  Next collect a band of brothers, all inspired by one desire.
    To subserve the public interest, single-hearted men and true;
  Stuff with shares, and thus permit them in your kindness to acquire,
    At a price, the vendor's property,--the vendor being you.

  Then, since you must make a profit, call the public to your aid;
    Let them give you all their money, which they think they only lend:
  And of course you mustn't tell them, till the fools have safely paid,
    Mines were made for sinking money, not for raising dividend.

  And the clergy bring their savings, the widows bring their store,
    And they push to reach your presence, and they jostle and they fall,
  And at last they pile their money in a heap before your door;
    And, just to make them happy, you accept and keep it all.

  So you make your mine by begging--(modern miners never dig),--
    And you float a gorgeous Company. The shares go spinning up;
  But you never "rig the market." (What an awkward word is "rig"!)
    And you drain success in bumpers from an overflowing cup.

  Then one day the thing gets shaky, and it goes from bad to worse,
    And the public grasps a shadow where it tried to hold a share;
  And in vain the country clergy most unclerically curse,
    You have "realised your property," and end a millionnaire.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMING SEA-SCRAPES AT CHELSEA.

(DRAWN BY AN INSIDER.)

MR. PUNCH, SIR,

That the sister Service should also have its turn at Chelsea I reckon I can understand, and
the Show ought to be popular; but if the Admiralty want to make a further "exhibition" of themselves,
they won't have to go very far a-field for material. Here are one or two exhibits that come
to hand at once. First, there's those big guns which it ain't safe to fire nohow, and which,
if you do load with half a charge, crack, bend, and get sent back to be "ringed" up, whatever
that means, and are not safe, even for a salute, ever afterwards. Then, in another case, they
might show a foot or two of that blessed boiler-piping which is always leaking, or splitting,
or bursting, just when it shouldn't. In a third they might display a chop that had been cooked
from lying exposed in one of those famous stokeholes where the poor beggars of sailors are
expected to pass their time without getting roasted too. Then there might be, as a sort of
prize puzzle, a plan of these here recent manoeuvres, with the Umpire's opinion of the whole
blessed jumble tacked on to it. Then, to enliven the proceedings. Lord GEORGE might take his
turn with the rest of the Admiralty Board, and give us, every half hour or so, a figure or
two of the Hornpipe, just to let the public see that they have got some sort of nautical "go"
about them to warrant them in drawing their big screw. Bless you, Mr. Punch, there's lots to
make an Exhibition of at Chelsea next year if you come to calculate. Leastways that's the opinion
of your humble servant and admirer,

A TAX-PAYING LANDLUBBER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON GUARDS!

THE BAD FORM OF THE PAST.

There he stood in his evening dress, with a half-smoked cigarette between his lips. He had
been knocking about Piccadilly all day, had dined at the Junior, looked in at the Opera, and
finished at the Steak. He seemed a civilian of civilians. The most casual observer would have
declared that he could never have seen the inside of a barrack-yard. So no surprise was expressed
when the question was asked him.

"What am I?" he repeated, languidly, and then he replied, with a yawn, "Can't you see, old
Chappie? Why, an Officer in the Guards!"

THE GOOD FORM OF THE FUTURE.

There he stood in his neat, serviceable undress uniform, with a cigar between his lips. He
had abandoned the swagger frogged coat and silk sash for the unpretending patrol jacket of
his brethren in the Line. He had been hard at work all day in barracks, inspecting meals, visiting
the hospital, attending parades. He had paid his company personally, had seen every man, and
found that there were no complaints. He had attended a mess meeting, and had dined at mess,
playing a rubber afterwards (sixpenny points) in the ante-room. He knew as much about the internal
economy of the Battalion as the Colonel, the Adjutant, or the Sergeant-Major. He seemed a soldier
of soldiers. The most casual observer would have declared that he was acquainted with every
inch of the barrack-yard. So general surprise was expressed when the question was asked him.

"What am I?" he repeated, briskly; and then he replied, with a smile, "Can't you see, stupid?
Why, an Officer in the Guards!"

       *       *       *       *       *

VOCES POPULI.

AT A GARDEN-PARTY.

    SCENE--A London Lawn. A Band in a costume half-way between
    the uniforms of a stage hussar and a circus groom, is
    performing under a tree. Guests discovered slowly pacing the
    turf, or standing and sitting about in groups.

Mrs. Maynard Gery (to her Brother-in-law--who is thoroughly aware of her little weaknesses).
Oh, PHIL,--you know everybody--do tell me! Who is that common-looking, little man with the
scrubby beard, and the very yellow gloves--how does he come to be here?

Phil. Where? Oh, I see him. Well--have you read Sabrina's Uncle's Other Niece?

Mrs. M.G. No--ought I to have? I never even heard of it!

Phil. Really? I wonder at that--tremendous hit--you must order it--though I doubt if you'll
be able to get it.

Mrs. M.G. Oh, I shall insist on having it. And he wrote it? Really, PHIL, now I come to look
at him, there's something rather striking about his face. Did you say Sabrina's Niece's Other
Aunt--or what?

Phil. Sabrina's Uncle's Other Niece was what I said--not that it signifies.

Mrs. M.G. Oh, but I always attach the greatest importance to names, myself. And do you know him?

Phil. What, TABLETT? Oh, yes--decent little chap; not much to say for himself, you know.

Mrs. M.G. I don't mind that when a man is clever--do you think you could bring him up and introduce
him?

Phil. Oh, I could--but I won't answer for your not being disappointed in him.

Mrs. M.G. I have never been disappointed in any genius yet--perhaps, because I don't expect
too much--so go, dear boy; he may be surrounded unless you get hold of him soon. [PHIL obeys.

Phil (accosting the Scrubby Man). Well, TABLETT, old fellow, how are things going with you?
Sabrina flourishing?

Mr. Tablett (enthusiastically). It's a tremendous hit, my boy; orders coming in so fast they
don't know how to execute 'em--there's a fortune in it, as I always told you!

Phil. Capital!--but you've such luck. By the way, my sister-in-law is most anxious to know you.

Mr. T. (flattered). Very kind of her. I shall be delighted. I was just thinking I felt quite
a stranger here.

Phil. Come along then, and I'll introduce you. If she asks you to her parties by any chance,
mind you go--sure to meet a lot of interesting people.

Mr. T. (pulling up his collar). Just what I enjoy--meeting interesting people--the only society
worth cultivating, to my mind, Sir. Give me intellect--it's of more value than wealth!

    [They go in search of Mrs. M.G.

First Lady on Chair. Look at the dear Vicar, getting that poor Lady PAWPERSE an ice. What a
very spiritual expression he has, to be sure--really quite apostolic!

Second Lady. We are not in his parish, but I have always heard him spoken of as a most excellent
man.

First Lady. Excellent! My dear, that man is a perfect Saint! I don't believe he knows what
it is to have a single worldly thought! And such trials as he has to bear, too! With that dreadful
wife of his!

Second Lady. That's the wife, isn't it?--the dowdy little woman, all alone, over there? Dear
me, what could he have married her for?

First Lady. Oh, for her money, of course, my dear!

Mrs. Pattallons (to Mrs. ST. MARTIN SOMERVILLE). Why, it really is you! I absolutely didn't
know you at first. I was just thinking, "Now who is that young and lovely person coming along
the path?" You see--I came out without my glasses to-day, which accounts for it!

Mr. Chuck (meeting a youthful Matron and Child). Ah, Mrs. SHARPE, how de do! I'm all right.
Hullo, TOTO, how are you, eh, young lady?

Toto (primly). I'm very well indeed, thank you. (With sudden interest). How's the idiot? Have
you seen him lately?

Mr. C. (mystified). The idiot, eh? Why, fact is, I don't know any idiot!--give you my word!

Toto (impatiently). Yes, you do--you know. The one Mummy says you're next door to--you must
see him sometimes! You did say Mr. CHUCK was next door to an idiot, didn't you, Mummy?

    [Tableau.

Mrs. Prattleton. Let me see--did we have a fine Summer in '87? Yes, of course--I always remember
the weather by the clothes we wore, and that June and July we wore scarcely anything--some
filmy stuff that belonged to one's ancestress, don't you know. Such fun! By the way, what has
become of Lucy?

Mrs. St. Patticker. Oh, I've quite lost sight of her lately--you see she's so perfectly happy
now, that she's ceased to be in the least interesting!

Mrs. Hussiffe (to Mr. DE MURE). Perhaps you can tell me of a good coal merchant? The people
who supply me now are perfect fiends, and I really must go somewhere else.

Mr. De Mure. Then I'm afraid you must be rather difficult to please.

    Mr. TABLETT has been introduced to Mrs. MAYNARD GERY--with
    the following result.

Mrs. M.G. (enthusiastically). I'm so delighted to make your acquaintance. When my brother-in-law
told me who you were, I positively very nearly shrieked. I am such an admirer of your--(thinks
she won't commit herself to the whole title--and so compounds)--your delightful Sabrina!

Mr. T. Most gratified to hear it, I'm sure, I'm told there's a growing demand for it.

Mrs. M.G. Such a hopeful sign--when one was beginning quite to despair of the public taste!

Mr. T. Well, I've always said--So long as you give the Public a really first-rate article,
and are prepared to spend any amount of money on pushing it, you know, you're sure to see a
handsome return for your outlay--in the long run. And you see, I've had this carefully analysed,
by competent judges--

Mrs. M.G. Ah, but you can feel independent of criticism, can't you?

Mr. T. Oh, I defy anyone to find anything unwholesome in it--it's as suitable for the most
delicate child as it is for adults--nothing to irritate the most sensitive--

Mrs. M.G. Ah, you mean certain critics are so thin-skinned--they are indeed!

Mr. T. (warming to his subject). But the beauty of this particular composition is that it causes
absolutely no unpleasantness or inconvenience afterwards. In some cases, indeed, it acts like
a charm. I've known of two cases of long-standing erysipelas it has completely cured.

Mrs. M.G. (rather at sea). How gratifying that must be. But that is the magic of all truly
great work, it is such an anodyne--it takes people so completely out of themselves--doesn't it?

Mr. T. It takes anything of that sort out of them, Ma'am. It's the finest discovery of the
age, no household will be without it in a few months--though perhaps I say it who shouldn't.

Mrs. M.G. (still more astonished). Oh, but I like to hear you. I'm so tired of hearing people
pretending to disparage what they have done, it's such a pose, and I hate posing. Real genius
is never modest. (If he had been more retiring, she would have, of course, reversed this axiom.)
I wish you would come and see me on one of my Tuesdays, Mr. TABLETT, I should feel so honoured,
and I think you would meet some congenial spirits--do look in some evening--I will send you
a card if I may--let me see--could you come and lunch next Sunday? I've got a little man coming
who was very nearly eaten up by cannibals. I think he would interest you.

Mr. T. I shall be proud to meet him. Er--did they eat much of him?

Mrs. M.G. (who privately thinks this rather vulgar). How witty you are! That's quite worthy
of a--Sabrina, really! Then you will come? So glad. And now I mustn't keep you from your other
admirers any longer. [She dismisses him.

LATER.

Mrs. M.G. (to her Brother-in-law). How could you say that dear Mr. TABLETT was dull, PHIL?
I found him perfectly charming--so original and unconventional! He's promised to come to me.
By the way, what did you say the name of his book was?

Phil. I never said he had written a book.

Mrs. M.G. PHIL--you did!--Sabrina's Other--Something. Why, I've been praising it to him, entirely
on your recommendation.

Phil. No, no--your mistake. I only asked you if you'd read Sabrina's Uncle's Other Niece, and,
as I made up the title on the spur of the moment, I should have been rather surprised if you
had. He never wrote a line in his life.

Mrs. M.G. How abominable of you! But surely he's famous for something? He talks like it. [With
reviving hope.

Phil. Oh, yes, he's the inventor and patentee of the new "Sabrina" Soap--he says he'll make
a fortune over it.

Mrs. M.G. But he hasn't even done that yet! PHIL, I'll never forgive you for letting me make
such an idiot of myself. What am I to do now? I can't have him coming to me--he's really too
impossible!

Phil. Do? Oh, order some of the soap, and wash your hands of him, I suppose--not that he isn't
a good deal more presentable than some of your lions, after all's said and done!

    [Mrs. M.G., before she takes her leave, contrives to inform
    Mr. TABLETT, with her prettiest penitence, that she has only
    just recollected that her luncheon party is put off, and that
    her Tuesdays are over for the Season. Directly she returns to
    Town, she promises to let him hear from her; in the meantime,
    he is not to think of troubling himself to call. So there is
    no harm done, after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OPERA-GOER'S DIARY.

(LAST WEEK OF OPERA.)

Monday.--Hamlet. Music by AMBROISE THOMAS, and libretto by Messieurs CARRÉ and BARBIER, who
seem to have read Hamlet once through, after which they wrote down as a libretto what they
remembered, of the story. It would be difficult to mention any Opera less dramatic than this.
The question arises at once, adapting the immortal phrase of JAMES LE SIFFLEUR, "Why lug in
Hamlet?" Why not have called it Ophelia? Whatever interest there may be in the Opera--and there
is very little--is centred entirely in Ophelia. The Ghost is utterly purposeless, but of distinguished
appearance as a robust spectre, marching in at one gate, and out at another, or hiding behind
a sofa, and popping up suddenly, in order to frighten an equally purposeless Hamlet. Like father,
like son. M. LASSALLE is a fine, substantial, baritonial Hamlet, who is always posturing, weeping,
calling out ma mère, and blubbering on the ample matronly bosom of his mother, Madame RICHARD
("O RICHARD! O ma Reine!") like a big, blubbering, overgrown schoolboy. Were I inclined to
disquisitionise, I should say that Messieurs CARRÉ and BARBIER have actually realised SHAKSPEARE's
own description of his jelly-fleshed hero, whose mind is as shaky as his well-covered body.
Hamlet was--as SHAKSPEARE took care to emphasise--"fat, and scant of breath"--which was the
physical description of the actor who first impersonated the leading rôle of this play; and
the French author's idea of Hamlet was, accordingly, a fat youth, very much out of condition,
home from Wittenberg College, in consequence of his father's recent decease.

