Animals possess the power of feeling, and of effecting certain movements, by the exercise of
a muscular apparatus with which their bodies are furnished. They are distinguished from the
organisations of the vegetable kingdom by the presence of these attributes. Every one is aware,
that when the child sees some strange and unknown object he is observing start suddenly into
motion, he will exclaim: 'It is alive!' By this exclamation, he means to express his conviction
that the object is endowed with animal life. Power of voluntary and independent motion and
animal organisation are associated together, as inseparable and essentially connected ideas,
by even the earliest experience in the economy and ways of nature.

The animal faculty of voluntary motion, in almost every case, confers upon the creature the
ability to transfer its body from place to place. In some animals, the weight of the body is
sustained by immersion in a fluid as dense as itself. It is then carried about with very little
expenditure of effort, either by the waving action of vibratile cilia scattered over its external
surface, or by the oar-like movement of certain portions of its frame especially adapted to
the purpose. In other animals, the weight of the body rests directly upon the ground, and has,
therefore, to be lifted from place to place by more powerful mechanical contrivances.

In the lowest forms of air-living animals, the body rests upon the ground by numerous points
of support; and when it moves, is wriggled along piecemeal, one portion being pushed forward
while the rest remains stationary. The mode of progression which the little earthworm adopts,
is a familiar illustration of this style of proceeding. In the higher forms of air-living animals,
a freer and more commodious kind of movement is provided for. The body itself is raised up
from the ground upon pointed columns, which are made to act as levers as well as props. Observe,
for instance, the tiger-beetle, as it runs swiftly over the uneven surface of the path in search
of its dinner, with its eager antennæ thrust out in advance. Those six long and slender legs
that bear up the body of the insect, and still keep advancing in regular alternate order, are
steadied and worked by cords laid along on the hollows and grooves of their own substance.
While some of them uphold the weight of the superincumbent body, the rest are thrown forwards,
as fresh and more advanced points of support on to which it may be pulled. The running of the
insect is a very ingenious and beautiful adaptation of the principles of mechanism to the purposes
of life.

But in the insect organisation, a still more surprising display of mechanical skill is made.
A comparatively heavy body is not only carried rapidly and conveniently along the surface of
the ground, it is also raised entirely up from it at pleasure, and transported through lengthened
distances, while resting upon nothing but the thin transparent air. From the top of the central
piece--technically termed thoracic--of the insect's body, from which the legs descend, two
or more membraneous sails arise, which are able to beat the air by repeated strokes, and to
make it, consequently, uphold their own weight, as well as that of the burden connected with
them. These lifting and sustaining sails are the insect's wings.

The wings of the insect are, however, of a nature altogether different from the apparently
analogous organs which the bird uses in flight. The wings of the bird are merely altered fore-legs.
Lift up the front extremities of a quadruped, keep them asunder at their origins by bony props,
fit them with freer motions and stronger muscles, and cover them with feathers, and they become
wings in every essential particular. In the insect, however, the case is altogether different.
The wings are not altered legs; they are superadded to the legs. The insect has its fore-legs
as well as its wings. The legs all descend from the under surface of the thoracic piece, while
the wings arise from its upper surface. As the wings are flapping above during flight, the
unchanged legs are dangling below, in full complement. The wings are, therefore, independent
and additional organs. They have no relation whatever to limbs, properly so called. But there
are some other portions of the animal economy with which they do connect themselves, both by
structure and function. The reader will hardly guess what those wing-allied organs are.

There is a little fly, called the May-fly, which usually makes its appearance in the month
of August, and which visits the districts watered by the Seine and the Marne in such abundance,
that the fishermen of these rivers believe it is showered down from heaven, and accordingly
call its living clouds, manna. Reaumur once saw the May-flies descend in this region like thick
snow-flakes, and so fast, that the step on which he stood by the river's bank was covered by
a layer four inches thick in a few minutes. The insect itself is very beautiful: it has four
delicate, yellowish, lace-like wings, freckled with brown spots, and three singular hair-like
projections hanging out beyond its tail. It never touches food during its mature life, but
leads a short and joyous existence. It dances over the surface of the water for three or four
hours, dropping its eggs as it flits, and then disappears for ever. Myriads come forth about
the hour of eight in the evening; but by ten or eleven o'clock not a single straggler can be
found alive.

From the egg which the parent May-fly drops into the water, a six-legged grub is very soon
hatched. This grub proceeds forthwith to excavate for himself a home in the soft bank of the
river, below the surface of the water, and there remains for two long years, feeding upon the
decaying matters of the mould. During this aquatic residence, the little creature finds it
necessary to breathe; and that he may do so comfortably, notwithstanding his habits of seclusion,
and his constant immersion in fluid, he pushes out from his shoulders and back a series of
delicate little leaf-like plates. A branch of one of the air-tubes of his body enters into
each of these plates, and spreads out into its substance. The plates are, in fact, gills--that
is, respiratory organs, fitted for breathing beneath the water. The little fellow may be seen
to wave them backwards and forwards with incessant motion, as he churns up the fluid, to get
out of it the vital air which it contains.

When the grub of the May-fly has completed his two years of probation, he comes out from his
subterranean and subaqueous den, and rises to the surface of the stream. By means of his flapping
and then somewhat enlarged gills, he half leaps and half flies to the nearest rush or sedge
he can perceive, and clings fast to it by means of his legs. He then, by a clever twist of
his little body, splits open his old fishy skin, and slowly draws himself out, head, and body,
and legs; and, last of all, from some of those leafy gills he pulls a delicate crumpled-up
membrane, which soon dries and expands, and becomes lace-netted and brown-fretted. The membrane
which was shut up in the gills of the aquatic creature, was really the rudiment of its now
perfected wings.

The wings of the insect are then a sort of external lungs, articulated with the body by means
of a movable joint, and made to subserve the purposes of flight. Each wing is formed of a flattened
bladder, extended from the general skin of the body. The sides of this bladder are pressed
closely together, and would be in absolute contact but for a series of branching rigid tubes
that are spread out in the intervening cavity. These tubes are air-vessels; their interiors
are lined with elastic, spirally-rolled threads, that serve to keep the channels constantly
open; and through these open channels the vital atmosphere rushes with every movement of the
membraneous organ. The wing of the May-fly flapping in the air is a respiratory organ, of as
much importance to the wellbeing of the creature in its way, as the gill-plate of its grub
prototype is when vibrating under the water. But the wing of the insect is not the only respiratory
organ: its entire body is one vast respiratory system, of which the wings are offsets. The
spirally-lined air-vessels run everywhere, and branch out everywhere. The insect, in fact,
circulates air instead of blood. As the prick of the finest needle draws blood from the flesh
of the backboned creature, it draws air from the flesh of the insect. Who will longer wonder,
then, that the insect is so light? It is aerial in its inner nature. Its arterial system is
filled with the ethereal atmosphere, as the more stolid creature's is with heavy blood.

If the reader has ever closely watched a large fly or bee, he will have noticed that it has
none of the respiratory movements that are so familiar to him in the bodies of quadrupeds and
birds. There is none of that heaving of the chest, and out-and-in movement of the sides, which
constitute the visible phenomena of breathing. In the insect's economy, no air enters by the
usual inlet of the mouth. It all goes in by means of small air-mouths placed along the sides
of the body, and exclusively appropriated to its reception. Squeezing the throat will not choke
an insect. In order to do this effectually, the sides of the body, where the air-mouths are,
must be smeared with oil.

In the vertebrated animals, the blood is driven through branching tubes to receptacles of air
placed within the chest; the air-channels terminate in blood extremities, and the blood-vessels
cover these as a net-work. The mechanical act of respiration merely serves to change the air
contained within the air-receptacles. In the insects, this entire process is reversed; the
air is carried by branching tubes to receptacles of blood scattered throughout the body; the
blood-channels terminate in blood-extremities, and a capillary net-work of air-vessels is spread
over these. Now, in the vertebrated creature, the chest is merely the grand air-receptacle
into which the blood is sent to be aërated; while in the insect, the chest contains but its
own proportional share of the great air-system. In the latter case, therefore, there is a great
deal of available space, which would have been, under other circumstances, filled with the
respiratory apparatus, but is now left free to be otherwise employed. The thoracic cavity of
the insect serves as a stowage for the bulky and powerful muscles that are required to give
energy to the legs and wings. The portion of the body that is almost exclusively respiratory
in other animals, becomes almost as exclusively motor in insects. It holds in its interior
the chief portions of the cords by which the moving levers and membranes are worked, and its
outer surface is adorned by those levers and membranes themselves. Both the legs and wings
of the insect are attached to the thoracic segment of its body.

