Will's Coffee-house was at No. 1, on the west side, the corner of Russell Street. The principal
room was on the first floor. Dryden made the house the chief place of resort for the poets
and wits of the time. After his death Addison took the company across the street to Button's.
Ned Ward's notes on Will's are not respectful.

"From thence we adjourned to the Wits' Coffee-house.... Accordingly, upstairs we went, and
found much company, but little talk.... We shuffled through this moving crowd of philosophical
mutes to the other end of the room, where three or four wits of the upper class were rendezvous'd
at a table, and were disturbing the ashes of the old poets by perverting their sense.... At
another table were seated a parcel of young, raw, second-rate beaus and wits, who were conceited
if they had but the honour to dip a finger and thumb into Mr. Dryden's snuff-box" (Cunningham,
p. 555.).

Defoe, on the other hand, is more complimentary:--

    "Now view the beaus at Will's, the men of wit,
    By nature nice, and for discerning fit,
    The finished fops, the men of wig and muff.
    Knights of the famous oyster-barrel snuff."

At Button's there was a carved lion's head, of which the mouth was a letter-box for contributions
to the Guardian and Tatler. This was set up by Addison in 1713, and attracted much attention.
It was removed in 1731 to the Shakespeare Tavern, and later came into the possession of the
Duke of Bedford. Tom's was the last of the three famous houses. It was started by a waiter
from Will's, and managed to hold its own. It was on the north side of the street, nearly opposite
Button's.

The literary associations of the street are innumerable. Wycherley lodged here, and after an
illness was visited by Charles II., who gave him £500 for a trip to France. The well-known
Cock Tavern was just opposite his rooms, and when Wycherley had married the Countess of Drogheda
he used to sit in the tavern with the windows open so that his jealous wife could see there
were no women in his company. This tavern was the resort of the rakes and mohocks that for
a while made the neighbourhood a terror to decent people. Henry Fielding wrote "Tom Jones"
while living in this street. Grinling Gibbons died here. Edmund Waller, the poet, lived here
during the Commonwealth, and Robert Harley, Earl of Oxford, was born here in 1661. Radcliffe,
the Court physician, was a resident in the beginning of the eighteenth century.

The streets opening out of the square can boast many interesting associations.

Henrietta Street was named after Charles I.'s Queen. Samuel Cooper, miniature-painter, lived
here. The Castle Tavern, where Sheridan fought with Mathews on account of Miss Linley, was
in this street.

Maiden Lane can claim several illustrious names. It was the birthplace of Turner; Andrew Marvell
and Voltaire both lodged here.

Long Acre was originally an open field called the Elms, and later known as Seven Acres, from
a grant of land made to the Duke of Bedford. A curious house-to-house survey of 1650 is preserved
in the Augmentation Office. From this it would appear that the street at that date was full
of small shops, grocers, chandlers, etc., with here and there a big house occupied by some
titled person. Ever since the first introduction of coaches Long Acre has been particularly
favoured by coachbuilders, and at the present time it is lined by carriage-works. Long Acre
was the scene of many convivial gatherings in the Hanoverian times. It can claim the first
"mug-house," an institution which speedily became popular. Oliver Cromwell lived on the south
side of Long Acre, and Dryden and Butler in Rose Street, a dirty little alley half destroyed
by the building of Garrick Street. Here Dryden was set upon by three hired bullies at the command
of Lord Rochester, who was insulted by some satirical lines which he attributed to the poet.

Garrick Street was built about 1864, and the club of the same name was founded for the patronage
of dramatic art.

St. Martin's Lane is one of the oldest thoroughfares in the parish. It was built about 1613,
and was then known as West Church Lane. It ran right through to the front of Northumberland
House, and prints are still extant showing the church peeping over the line of houses on the
western side.

St. Martin's Lane claims many celebrated names, and was a favourite resort for artists. The
house in which Inigo Jones lived is still pointed out--No. 31 on the east side. Almost exactly
opposite this is the Public Library, built at the same time as the Municipal Buildings; it
contains a fine reference collection (see also p. 21.) The lane abounds with memories of the
past. In St. Peter's Court Roubiliac established a studio, afterwards a drawing academy, which
numbered Hayman, Cipriani, Ramsay, Cosway, Nollekens, Reynolds and Hogarth among its members;
this was the predecessor of the Royal Academy. This court was two or three doors above the
Free Library, and was eventually closed up at the west end by the Garrick Theatre. No. 114
is traditionally on the site of the mansion of the Earls of Salisbury, in which, also traditionally,
the Seven Bishops were confined before being committed to the Tower. The names of Chippendale,
Nathaniel Hone and Fuseli are associated with the lane, also Sir Joshua Reynolds and Sir James
Thornhill.

Old Slaughter's Coffee-house alone is enough to redeem any street from oblivion. This was established
in 1692, and stood on the spot where Cranbourne Street now crosses the end of St. Martin's
Lane. It was a favourite resort of all the painters and sculptors of the time, not to mention
the wits and beaux. Hogarth was a constant visitor, his house in Leicester Square being conveniently
near. Roubiliac, Gainsborough, and also Wilkie, came to enjoy society at Old Slaughter's, and
Pope and Dryden are known to have visited it. The first chess club in London was established
here in 1747.

And now we have strolled around the chosen area, making Trafalgar Square the centre, and returning
to and fro in two great loops eastward and westward, resembling a true lovers' knot. We have
been in the company of King and courtier, rebel and wit. We have consorted with the gay fops
of the eighteenth century in their club and coffee house life, and we have seen the haunts
of men whose names are household words wherever the English tongue is spoken.

It has been chiefly seventeenth and eighteenth century life that has enchained us as we read
the pages of the past, and in its richness and variety at least the eighteenth century would
be difficult to rival. Prosaic London, with her borough councils, her Strand improvements,
and her immense utilitarian flats, still retains the glamour of her bygone days, and if her
present buildings are without much attraction, they are glorified by the halo of their association
with their fascinating predecessors. DEMY 4to., CLOTH, GILT TOP, PRICE 30s. net.

EXCERPT FROM PREFACE.

It was my husband's ambition to be the historian of London in the Nineteenth Century, just
as Stow had been in the Sixteenth Century, and he projected "The Survey of London," which was
to be a record of the greatest, busiest, most wealthy, most populous city in the whole world,
as it was from century to century and as it is at present.

From this history as a whole the portion relating to the Eighteenth Century has been chosen
for present publication, not only on account of its intrinsic interest, but because of the
fascination that the period had for the author. It will, I think, be pleasing to most readers
to find that so much space has been devoted to the social life of the period--in fact, the
book may be regarded as a Social picture of London in the Eighteenth Century, rather than as
a consecutive history.

PUBLISHED BY A. AND C. BLACK. SOHO SQUARE. LONDON. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

"If you want to know anything about anybody, get a copy of 'Who's Who'."--"Truth."

WHO'S WHO

1903.

Price 5/-net.

THIS YEAR'S ISSUE CONTAINS OVER 15,000 BIOGRAPHIES.

AN ANTHOLOGY

OF

Press Opinions of the 1902 Edition.

"The handiest, cheapest, and most useful book of the kind published."--"The best compendium
of autobiographies of the world's leading men."--"Open it anywhere and your eyes will ever
be opened."--"Invaluable! Indispensable!"--"The most compendious book of reference issued."--"When
there is a conflict of authority it may generally be assumed that 'Who's Who' is right."--"'Who's
Who' may be regarded as a sine quâ non to a business man."--"As indispensable as a local directory
in a business office. This excellent work is the nearest approach to an English Vapereau we
possess."--"Almost as necessary as daily bread."--"A biographical dictionary which it would
be difficult to do without: 1,500 pages chock-full of information. One of those books without
which no reference library is complete."

PUBLISHED BY A. & C. BLACK, SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.