Prior to 1785 there was no statute in Massachusetts which defined the causes for which divorces
should be granted, or which prescribed the forms, the rules, or the principles which the court
of divorce should follow, or which specified whether the divorces granted should be from bed
and board only, or from the bond of matrimony; though, as a fact, most, if not all, of the
divorces granted under the first charter were from the bond of matrimony. They have been reaffirmed
again and again. Thus in 1692-3, after the abrogation of the colonial charter, and the establishment
of a provincial government, under the second charter, it was enacted "that all controversies
concerning marriage and divorce should be heard and determined by the governor and council,"
which had taken the place of the Court of Assistants. Again, in 1784-5, when the province had
become a commonwealth, when the divorce jurisdiction was transferred to the Supreme Judicial
Court, when the causes were defined for which that court might grant divorces from bed and
board, and divorces from the bond of matrimony, respectively, it was enacted that the court
should hear and determine all causes of divorce and alimony, "according to the course of proceeding
in Ecclesiastical Courts and in Courts of Equity;" and this provision has been reënacted at
every revision of our statutes, in 1836, 1860, and 1882. By force of this statute the general
principles which governed the Ecclesiastical Courts are a part of the law of Massachusetts
to-day. One short chapter of the Public Statutes contains all her statutory law touching not
only divorce but several other incidental subjects. It is a chapter of fragments. Connivance,
collusion, condonation, recrimination, and other defences are not even mentioned therein.

In the case of Commonwealth v. Munson, 127 Mass., 459, Chief-Justice Gray, referring to the
requisites of a valid marriage ceremony, said "the Canon Law was never adopted" in Massachusetts;
and this is true in respect to the particular subject which that learned judge had under consideration.
He never meant it as an unqualified statement, for as such it would not be true. In 1691 the
marriage between Hannah Owen and Josiah Owen was declared null and void by the Court of Assistants,
because Hannah was the widow of Josiah's brother, and because by "the Canon Law, as allowed
and adopted in England," ever since Archbishop Cranmer annulled the marriage between Henry
VIII. and Catherine of Aragon, no man could lawfully marry his brother's widow. We do not stop
to consider whether the Canon Law in this respect was right or wrong; we merely cite this case
to show that, as to some things, the Canon Law was adopted here. In one marked instance the
people of Massachusetts deviated from "the Canon Law as allowed and adopted in England," to
follow the Canon Law as allowed and adopted by the Popes of Rome; they enacted that, upon the
marriage of the parents of any illegitimate child, such child should thereby become legitimate.

The colonists of Massachusetts had no such blind prejudice against the Canon Law, or the Church
of England, or the Church of Rome, as prevented them from adopting whatever they found therein
which their consciences and their reason approved. So far from cherishing an unreasoning prejudice
against the Ecclesiastical Courts, the people of Massachusetts have preserved, in their Probate
Courts, substantially the same system of law and substantially the same method of procedure
which were followed in the Consistory Court of London, and in the Consistory Court of Rome;
notwithstanding that system came to them associated with the name of one of the most unpopular
and yet one of the ablest of their governors--Sir Edmund Andros.

There were, indeed, two complaints which the Puritans of Old England and of New England often
made against the English Ecclesiastical Courts: first, that they punished with merciless severity
violations of certain ecclesiastical regulations which involved no moral turpitude; second,
that they were too lax in the punishment of social sins, Sabbath desecrations, etc., etc. But
nowhere among the literary remains of the Puritans do we find any suggestion that the system
of morals which was recognized by the Canon Law and administered by the Ecclesiastical Courts
was "not suited to their opinions or condition." We shall not be understood as saying that
the Canon Law in its entirety was ever adopted in New England, or even in Old England; it was
not. When Henry VIII. assumed the prerogatives of supreme head of the Church of England, so
much of the Canon Law as relates to the jurisdiction of the Pope was abrogated in that kingdom.
So when the colonists of Massachusetts established "a Church without a bishop and a State without
a king," so much of the Canon Law as relates to diocesan episcopacy also fell into what President
Cleveland would call "innocuous desuetude." But they adopted the decalogue of Moses with as
much reverence as did their fathers before them. They knew as well as the poet Lowell that
"The Ten Commandments will not budge," but that, vitalized by the life of Christ, those commandments
stand "the same yesterday, to-day, and forever."

DORRIS'S HERO.

A ROMANCE OF THE OLDEN TIME.

BY MARJORIE DAW.

"Spin, spin, Clotho, spin," hummed a gay, masculine voice. "Methinks, fair Mistress Dorris,
even the Fates themselves could not be more devoted to their task than are you to that busy
little wheel."

Pretty Dorris Gordon glanced up from her seat by the long window opening into the cool, grassy
orchard, where the sun played hide-and-seek with the shadows and then came back to rest caressingly
on her bent head crowned with its own sunshine of chestnut hair, but she stayed neither busy
hand nor foot as she answered,--

"Since your mighty mind is bent on mythological comparisons, Capt. L'Estrange, 'tis but a poor
compliment to a fair lady when a gallant officer compares her to three old Fates,--unless he
qualifies the remark somewhat. Could you not add something about my fairy fingers weaving the
destiny of man? I fear your quick French wits have been dulled by that cold British bullet
in your arm."

"Nay, 'tis not the British bullet, but yourself, ma belle cousine, that bewilders my French
wits and inspires me instead with American patriotism," is the quick retort.

"Far better than your last speech," laughs Dorris, taking from her belt a deep-red rose fastened
by a true-love knot of blue ribbon to a snowy white bud. "So much better that I will bestow
on you my colors. See! the red, white, and blue! Wilt wear them like a brave and gallant knight?"

"They shall be like Henri of Navarre's plume: ever foremost in the struggle for right," the
young officer answered, bending to kiss the little hand which held the proffered treasure.
"I well know no empty compliment will please you as that promise, and indeed its sincerity
will soon be tested, for my arm is so much better that I am ready for action, and next week
I am off."

"So soon?" cried Dorris. "Oh, that I were a man, to fight for the stars and stripes!"

"I am always sure to find the words here set to the tune of Yankee Doodle," breaks in a new
voice with a light laugh. "Still, you deserve a laurel wreath for that enthusiastic wish. Will
a humble offering of roses be unworthy of notice, fair Goddess of Liberty?" and a shower of
sweet-scented blossoms fell over Dorris' head and shoulders.

"O Mr. Endicott! goddesses are not crowned so unceremoniously. Imagine Paris pelting Venus
with that apple that made so much trouble," says Dorris, glancing up half angrily, half mirthfully,
at the tall intruder leaning so easily against the window. "I am almost minded to make you
hold this skein of yarn, as a penance, while I wind it."

"Alas! she descends from a goddess to the most prosaic of mortals," sighs Endicott; then springing
through the low window, "I am ready to obey; but that skein is imposing. What is its destiny?"

"And why, oh, why this inseparable devotion to that unfeeling wheel?" adds L'Estrange. "I came
for a stroll, and, voilà! she cannot leave her spinning. Is it a trousseau, that must be ready
when some lover comes home from the war?"

Dorris's bright face saddens suddenly, the perfect mouth loses its arch curves, and a shadow
creeps into the brown eyes as the long lashes droop over them.

"The skein is to be knit into socks for the soldiers," she says simply; "and as for my wheel,
I love it because it is connected with one who has been more to me than any lover. 'Tis but
a homely story, but I will tell it to such old friends as you. I need not tell you that I have
a brother in the army, but you do not--you cannot--know how dear he is to me, how he has taken
the place of both father and mother. It seems as if brother and sister had never been bound
by ties so close, and when this war came upon us I watched him day by day, knowing well the
thought in his heart, and trembling for what I knew must come; and yet when Rex came to me
and said, 'Little sister, my country needs me: can you be brave, and bear it, if I go?' oh,
then it seemed to me that I could not bear it! But I thought of the brave Lafayette leaving
his home and loved ones to fight for us, a foreign nation, and my heart smote me that I could
not be willing to offer my mite for my own dear country, and I bade my brother, 'Go, and God-speed.'
It was only a few weeks before that he had given me this wheel, and almost his last words were,
as he stood smiling in the door-way, 'Remember, Dorris, I shall expect to find on my return
one dozen handkerchiefs spun and woven by yourself and that wonderful wheel.' I have remembered
that careless injunction, and have obeyed it. There lies awaiting his return the pile of snowy
linen, but we have not heard from him for long, long weeks, and sometimes my heart seems breaking,
with the constant dread that haunts it. Do you wonder now that I love my dear little wheel?"

Impulsive, warm-hearted, patriotic Dorris ends with a little sob in her voice, and L'Estrange
welcomes the entrance of the host and hostess of the old-time mansion, as it covers the awkward
emotion of the moment. As he advances to pay his devoirs to them Keith Endicott seizes his
opportunity to say softly, as he bends over the head buried in the now idle hands:--

"Sweet friend, you said you wished you were a man, to fight for the flag; remember, even though
'tis hard, 'They also serve who only stand and wait.'"

Then, while Dorris tries to change the sob into words, he follows the others into the wide,
long hall, where the breezes, sweeping in through the open doors at either end, fill the summer
air with delicious coolness, and the scent of roses mingles with that of newly-mown clover.
The breezes, too, bring to Dorris bits of conversation from the hall; but they fall on unheeding
ears until an abrupt speech from her uncle claims her attention.

"Endicott," says his voice, "why don't you join the army? Such men are being called for,--young,
strong, and able. Why don't you go?"

Dorris almost holds her breath as she awaits the answer. She scarcely knows how many times
she has asked herself that very question. The answer comes quietly, almost indolently, though
she knows that Endicott's reticent nature must be annoyed beyond measure.

"Why don't I? Really, I do not know, sir. Young, strong, and able, an idle fellow enough. I
think it must be because it hurts, and I'm a dreadfully selfish fellow."

What reply could be made to his careless, easy tones? And the talk drifted smoothly on--the
more smoothly, perhaps, since no one believed a word that he said, for Keith Endicott ere this
had earned the name of the soul of bravery and honor; but Dorris dropped to the ground the
roses that had lain all this time in her lap, as if an unseen thorn had wounded her, and, rising,
went away to her own cosey room, where she flung herself into an arm-chair and fell into a
deep study, looking from her window through the trees to where the blue waters of the Charles
gleamed and rippled in the sunlight. It was a lovely spot, this home of her aunt in the suburbs
of Boston,--a home which Dorris had called her own since her parents' death, years before,
when she and her brother had been confided to her aunt's tender care. And Dorris loved every
spot of this rambling, old, colonial mansion, from its spacious ballroom, and its wide porches,
to her own room, with its faded tapestry hangings, its great fireplace and bright brass andirons,
its hanging book-shelves with their store of well-chosen volumes, the English titles varied
here and there by a Latin or French classic (for Dorris had studied with her brother, and was
quite proficient in both languages; indeed, L'Estrange delighted in calling her a bas-bleu
in a vain attempt to tease her), its tall, brass-handled secretary with its secret drawer,
which Dorris called so tantalizing, because she had no secret to hide in its depths, and the
eight-day clock ticking away in the corner, which now struck the hour, waking Dorris from her
revery into words:--

"I wonder why he does not go: he is no coward; it is not that. I verily believe it is as he
said: he is selfish, and does not want the trouble. How he laughs, and disbelieves in everybody,
even himself! and what a narrow life he must lead! And yet, sometimes I think better, as I
needs must, of my old playmate. Just now he spoke to me with real feeling, and truly, it was
a sweet and comforting thought he offered me. And yet the other day, after church, when Gen.
Brewster spoke so cordially to Henri L'Estrange and Lieut. Allen, and then bestowed rather
a contemptuous glance on Keith,--I mean Mr. Endicott,--I caught him quoting, under his breath,
'The world is a farce, and its favors are follies; but farces and follies are very dear to
human hearts.' I could not help saying, 'When its favors are well-earned I think they cease
to be follies.' It was, at the best, bad taste to cavil in that way at Henri, who is so brave
and enthusiastic, and has come all the way from his own and his father's native France because
his mother's land needed brave, true men. And he is going away next week; if he could only
send us news of Roy!"

"Dorris!" called her aunt's voice. "It is quite time you were ready for dinner, dear. And do
you not think you were failing in courtesy to your guests to leave them so abruptly?"

"Cousin Henri has had enough of my society, to-day, Aunt Dorothy, and I've no patience with
Keith Endicott; you heard how he answered uncle. But I'll come in a moment, auntie," answers
Dorris; and the arm-chair loses its fair occupant.

Quaint, dainty little Dorris! What would not I--I, your great-granddaughter, in this degenerate
year of 1885--give to see you just as you looked then, thinking over this and that in a manner
not so very unlike the maidens of this generation! Ah, well! I must perforce content myself
with that miniature of you as "Madam," in your lavender brocade, with the feathers in your
powdered hair, and the row on row of pearls about your throat. Very stately and dignified you
look there; and yet, Great-grandmother Dorris, I can see the spice of "innate depravity," as
I doubt not your grave pastor would have called it, and catch a glimpse of the quick temper
and warm heart in those bright eyes and that saucy little nose.

