THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

No. 379.] SATURDAY, JULY 4, 1829. [PRICE  2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILAN CATHEDRAL

"Show the motley-minded gentleman in;"--the old friend with a new face, or, in plain words,
THE MIRROR in a new type. Tasteful reader, examine the symmetry, the sharp cut and finish of
this our new fount of type, and tell us whether it accords not with the beauty, pungency, and
polish of the notings and selections of this our first sheet. For some days this type has been
glittering in the printing-office boxes, like nestling fire-flies, and these pages at first
resembled so many pools or tanks of molten metal, or the windows of a fine old mansion--Hatfield
House for instance,--lit up by the refulgent rays of a rising sun. The sight "inspires us,
and fires us;" and we count upon new letter bringing us new friends, and thus commence our
Fourteenth Volume with new hopes and invigorating prospects. But what subject can be more appropriate
for such a commencement, than so splendid a triumph of art as

MILAN CATHEDRAL;

situate almost in the centre, and occupying part of the great square of the city. It is of
Gothic architecture, and its materials are white marble. In magnitude this edifice yields to
few in the universe. Inferior only to the Vatican, it equals in length, and in breadth surpasses,
the cathedral of Florence and St. Paul's; in the interior elevation it yields to both; in exterior
it exceeds both; in fretwork, carving, and statues, it goes beyond all churches in the world,
St. Peter's itself not excepted. Its double aisles, its clustered pillars, its lofty arches;
the lustre of its walls; its numberless niches all filled with marble figures, give it an appearance
novel even in Italy, and singularly majestic. The admirer of English Gothic will observe one
peculiarity, which is, that in the cathedral of Milan there is no screen, and that the chancel
is entirely open, and separated from the nave only by its elevation.

The pillars of the cathedral of Milan are more than ninety feet in height, and about eight
in diameter. The dimensions of the church at large are as follow:--In length four hundred and
ninety feet, in breadth two hundred and ninety-eight, in interior elevation under the dome
two hundred and fifty-eight, and four hundred in exterior, that is to the summit of the tower.
The pavement is formed of marble of different colours, disposed in various patterns and figures.
The number of niches is great, and every niche has its statue, which, with those placed on
the ballustrade of the roof, are reported to amount to more than four thousand. Many among
them are said to be of great merit. Over the dome rises a tower or spire, or rather obelisk,
for its singular shape renders it difficult to ascertain its appellation, which, whatever may
be its intrinsic merit, adds little either to the beauty or to the magnificence of the structure
which it surmounts. This obelisk was erected about the middle of the last century, contrary
to the opinion of the best architects. Though misplaced, its form is not in itself inelegant,
while its architecture and mechanism are extremely ingenious, and deserve minute examination.
In ascending the traveller will observe, that the roof of the church is covered with blocks
of marble, connected together by a cement, that has not only its hardness and durability, but
its colour, so that the eye scarcely perceives the juncture, and the whole roof appears one
immense piece of white shining marble. The view from the summit is extensive and even novel,
as it includes not only the city and the rich plain of Milan, intersected with rivers and canals,
covered with gardens, orchards, vineyards, and groves, and thickly studded with villages and
towns; but it extends to the grand frame of this picture, and takes in the neighbouring Alps,
forming a magnificent semicircle and uniting their bleak ridges with the milder and more distant
Apennines.

The traveller, says Eustace, will regret as he descends, that instead of heaping this useless
and cumbersome quarry upon the dome, the trustees of the edifice did not employ the money expended
upon it in erecting a front, (for that essential part is still wanting,) corresponding with
the style and stateliness of this superb temple. A front has indeed been begun, but in a taste
so dissimilar to that of the main building, and made up of such a medley of Roman orders and
Gothic decorations, that the total suspension of such a work might be considered as an advantage,
if a more appropriate portal were to be erected in its place. But unfortunately the funds destined
for the completion and repair of this cathedral are now swallowed up in the general confiscation.
Had it been finished, and the western front built in a style corresponding with the other parts,
the admirers of the Gothic style would have possessed one specimen perfect in its kind, and
accompanied with all the advantages of the best materials, set off by a fine climate.

In materials, the cathedral of Milan surpasses all the churches of the universe, the noblest
of which are only lined and coated with marble, while this is entirely built, paved, vaulted,
and roofed with the same substance, and that of the whitest and most resplendent kind. The
most remarkable object in the interior of this church is the subterranean chapel, in which
the body of St. Charles Borromeo reposes. It is immediately under the dome, in form octangular,
and lined with silver, divided into panels representing the different actions of the life of
the saint. The body is in a shrine of rock crystal, on, or rather behind the altar; it is stretched
at full length, drest in pontifical robes, with the crosier and mitre. The face is exposed,
very improperly, because much disfigured by decay, a deformity increased and rendered more
hideous by its contrast with the splendour of the vestments which cover the body, and by the
pale ghastly light that gleams from the aperture above. The inscription over this chapel or
mausoleum, was dictated by St. Charles himself, and breathes that modesty and piety which so
peculiarly marked his character. It is as follows:

  CAROLUS CARDINALIS
  TITULI S. PRAXEDIS
  ARCHIEP. MEDIOLAN.
  FREQUENTIORIBUS
  CLERI POPULIQ. AC
  DEVOTI FAEMINEI SEXUS
  PRECIBUS SE COMMENDATUM
  CUPIENS HOC LOCO SIBI
  MONUMENTUM VIVENS ELEGIT.

Of the statues crowded in and around this edifice many are esteemed, and some admired. Of the
latter, that of St. Bartholomew is the first; it stands in the church, and represents the apostle
as holding his own skin, which had been drawn off like drapery over his shoulders. The play
of the muscles is represented with an accuracy, that rather disgusts and terrifies than pleases
the spectator.[1] The exterior of the chancel is lined with marble divided into panels, each
of which has its basso relievo; the interior is wainscoted, and carved in a very masterly style.
The whole of the chancel was erected by St. Charles Borromeo.

    [1] The following lines are inscribed on its pedestal, in Latin,
        and in English:--

          Lest at the sculptor doubtfully you guess,
          'Tis Marc Agrati, not Praxiteles.

        This statue is reckoned worth its weight in gold.

In describing this magnificent cathedral, we have availed ourselves of abridging the description
in Eustace's "Classical Tour," a work of high authority and sterling value on all subjects
connected with the Fine Arts.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUSTIC AMUSEMENTS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Three years ago you gave a pleasing illustration of "the Amusements of May," and at the same
time lamented the decrease of village festivity and rural merriment, which in days langsyne
cheered the honest hearts and lightened the daily toil of our rustic ancestors. From the sentiments
you express on that occasion, I am led to fancy that it will afford you pleasure to hear that
the song, the dance, and innocent revelry are not quite forgotten in some part of our land,
and that the sweet and smiling spring is not suffered to make his lovely appearance without
one welcome shout from the sons and daughters of our happy island; and, therefore, I will recount
to you (and by your permission to the readers of the MIRROR) a village fête which I lately
witnessed and enjoyed. On the 9th inst. (Whit-Tuesday), after a few miles' walk, I arrived
in the village of Shillingston (Dorsetshire), whose inhabitants annually dedicate this day
to those pastimes which (as one of your correspondents has observed) seem a sort of first offering
to gentle skies, and are consecrated by the smiles of the tender year. Attracted by musical
sounds, and following my ears instead of my nose, I soon found my way to the vicarage-house,
where the company were just arriving in procession, preceded by a pink and white silken banner,
while a pipe and tabor regulated their march. Next after the music were four men each bearing
a large garland of flowers, and after them followed the merry lads and smiling lasses in good
order and arrayed in their holiday kirtles. The vicar's house stands on a fine lawn commanding
a most enchanting view. On this verdant carpet, after a promenade and general salute to their
worthy pastor and his numerous guests, dancing took place; for the time all distinctions were
laid aside, and the greatest gentry in the neighbourhood, taking the hand of their more humble
neighbours, led them through the mazy dance with a feeling of kindness, friendship, and good
humour such as I have seldom witnessed. Two or three hours of as beautiful an evening as ever
zephyr kissed were thus spent, after which, drawing up before the house "the King" was given,
with three times three; next came "God save the King," and then "Hurrah for the Bonnets o'
Blue" led the party off in the order they came to witness the ceremony of "dressing" the May-Pole.
About five hundred yards brought us to the elevated object on which was placed, with all due
solemnity, the before-mentioned garlands, and the pole being considered fully dressed, we all
adjourned to a large barn, where dancing was kept up with great spirit, until night drew her
sable curtain over the scene, and the company retired with light hearts and weary feet to their
peaceful homes.

Such, sir, is the Dorsetshire way of hailing the return of gentle skies and genial seasons;
a custom of the olden time, which is productive of good feeling among all classes, and is at
present conducted with good order and respectability.

Sturminster.

RURIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Poets.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUPID'S ARROWS.

  At Venus' entreaty for Cupid, her son,
  These arrows by Vulcan were cunningly done:
  The first is Love, as here you may behold
  His feathers, head, and body, are of gold.
  The second shaft is Hate, a foe to Love,
  And bitter are his torments for to prove.
  The third is Hope, from whence our comfort springs,
  His feathers are pull'd from Fortune's wings.
  Fourth, Jealousy in basest minds doth dwell,
  This metal Vulcan's Cyclops sent from Hell.

G. PEELE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIND.

  It is the mind that maketh good or ill,
  That makes a wretch, or happy, rich or poor,
  For some that have abundance at their will,
  Have not enough but want in greatest store,
  Another that hath little asks no more,
  But, in that little is both rich and wise.

SPENSER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORLD.

  The first and riper world of men and skill,
  Yields to our later time for three inventions,
  Miraculously we write, we sail, we kill,
  As neither ancient scroll nor story mentions.
  Print. The first hath opened learning, old concealed
  And obscure arts restored to the light.
  Loadstone. The second hidden countries hath revealed,
  And sends Christ's Gospel to each living wight.
  These we commend, but oh! what needeth more.
  Guns. To teach Death more skill than he had before.

J. BASTARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

KINGS.

  Kings are the Gods' vicegerents on the earth
  The Gods have power, Kings from that power have might,
  Kings should excell in virtue and in birth;
  Gods punish wrongs, and Kings should maintain right,
  They be the suns from which we borrow light.
  And they as Kings, should still in justice strive
  With Gods, from whom their beings they derive.

DRAYTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPANY.

  Remain upright yet some will quarrel pike,
  And common bruit will deem them all alike.
  For look, how your companions you elect
  For good or ill, so shall you be suspect.

T. HUDSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

POESIE.

  All art is learned by art, this art alone
  It is a heavenly gift, no flesh nor bone
  Can praise the honey we from Pind distil,
  Except with holy fire his breast we fill.
  From that spring flows, that men of special chose
  Consum'd in learning and perfect in prose;
  For to make verse in vain does travel take,
  When as a prentice fairer words will make.

KING OF SCOTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWELVE FOUL FAULTS.

  A wise man living like a drone, an old man not devout,
  Youth disobedient, rich men that are charity without,
  A shameless woman, vicious lords, a poor man proudly stout,
  Contentious Christians, pastors that their functions do neglect,
  A wicked king, no discipline, no laws men to direct,
  Are twelve the foulest faults that most commonwealths infect.

W. WARNER.

       *       *       *       *       *

RIVERS.

  Fair Danubie is praised for being wide.
    Nilus commended for the seven-fold head;
  Euphrates for the swiftness of the tide,
    And for the garden whence his course is led,
    And banks of Rhine with vines o'erspread.
  Take Loire and Po, yet all may not compare
  With English Thames for buildings rare.

STORER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Naturalist.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUADRUPEDS AND BIRDS FEEDING ON SHELL-FISH.

It is nothing surprising that the different species of walrus, inhabitants of the ocean, should
feed partly on shell-fish, but perhaps you would not expect to find among their enemies animals
strictly terrestrial. Yet the oran otang and the preacher monkey often descend to the sea to
devour what shell-fish they may find strewed upon the shores. The former, according to Carreri
Gemelli, feed in particular upon a large species of oyster, and fearful of inserting their
paws between the open valves, lest the oyster should close and crush them, they first place
a tolerably large stone within the shell, and then drag out their victim with safety. The latter
are no less ingenious. Dampier saw several of them take up oysters from the beach, lay them
on a stone, and beat them with another till they demolished the shells. Wafer observed the
monkeys in the island of Gorgonia to proceed in a similar manner; and those of the Cape of
Good Hope, if we are to credit La Loubere, perpetually amuse themselves by transporting shells
from the shore to the tops of mountains, with the intention undoubtedly of devouring them at
leisure. Even the fox, when pressed by hunger, will deign to eat muscles and other bivalves;
and the racoon, whose fur is esteemed by hatters next in value to that of the beaver, when
near the shore lives much on them, more particularly on oysters. We are told that it will watch
the opening of the shells, dexterously put in its paw, and tear out the contents. Not, however,
without danger, for sometimes, we are assured, by a sudden closure, the oyster will catch the
thief, and detain him until he is drowned by the return of the tide. The story, I regret to
say, appears somewhat apocryphal.

These are amusing facts; the following, to the epicure at least, may be equally interesting.
In some parts of England it is a prevalent and probably a correct opinion, that the shelled-snails
contribute much to the fattening of their sheep. On the hill above Whitsand Bay in Cornwall,
and in the south of Devonshire, the Bùlimus acùtus and the Hèlix virgàta, which are found there
in vast profusion, are considered to have this good effect; and it is indeed impossible that
the sheep can browse on the short grass of the places just mentioned, without devouring a prodigious
quantity of them, especially in the night, or after rain, when the Bùlimi and Hèlices ascend
the stunted blades. "The sweetest mutton," says Borlase, "is reckoned to be that of the smallest
sheep, which feed on the commons where the sands are scarce covered with the green sod, and
the grass exceedingly short; such are the towens or sand hillocks in Piran Sand, Gwythien,
Philac, and Senangreen, near the Land's End, and elsewhere in like situations. From these sands
come forth snails of the turbinated kind, but of different species, and all sizes from the
adult to the smallest just from the egg; these spread themselves over the plains early in the
morning, and, whilst they are in quest of their own food among the dews, yield a most fattening
nourishment to the sheep." (Hist. of Cornwall.)

Among birds the shell-fish have many enemies. Several of the duck and gull tribes, as you might
anticipate, derive at least a portion of their subsistence from them. The pied oyster-catcher
receives its name from the circumstance of feeding on oysters and limpets, and its bill is
so well adapted to the purpose of forcing asunder the valves of the one, and of raising the
other from the rock, that "the Author of Nature," as Derham says, "seems to have framed it
purely for that use." Several kinds of crows likewise prey upon shell-fish, and the manner
in which they force the strong hold of their victims is very remarkable. Many authorities might
be adduced in corroboration of this statement. In Southern Africa so many of the Testàcea are
consumed by these and other birds, as to have given rise to an opinion that the marine shells
found buried in the distant plains, or in the sides of the mountains, have been carried there
by their agency, and not, as generally supposed, by eruptions of the sea. Mr. Barrow, who is
of this opinion, tells us, in confirmation of it, that "there is scarcely a sheltered cavern
in the sides of the mountains that arise immediately from the sea, where living shell-fish
may not be found any day of the year. Crows even, and vultures, as well as aquatic birds, detach
the shell-fish from the rocks, and mount with them into the air: shells thus carried are said
to be frequently found on the very summit even of the Table Mountain. In one cavern at the
point of Mussel Bay," he adds, "I disturbed some thousands of birds, and found as many thousands
of living shell-fish scattered on the surface of a heap of shells, that for aught I know, would
have filled as many thousand wagons." The story, therefore, of the ancient philosopher whose
bald pate one of these unlucky birds mistook for a stone, and dropped a shell upon it, thereby
killing at once both, is not so tramontane as to stumble all belief.

Land shells furnish a few birds with part of their sustenance, and the principal of these are
two well known songsters, the blackbird and the thrush. They,

                     ----"whose notes
  Nice finger'd Art must emulate in vain."

depend in great measure, when winter has destroyed their summer food, on the more common species
of Hèlices (snails.) These they break very dexterously by reiterated strokes against some stone;
and it is not uncommon to find a great quantity of fragments of shells together, as if brought
to one particulur stone for this very purpose.--Loudon's Magazine.

Notes of a Reader

       *       *       *       *       *

SUSSEX COTTAGES.

We have been delighted with the following admirable sketch of English comfort from the pen
of Mr. Cobbett:

"I never had, that I recollect, a more pleasant journey or ride, than this into Sussex. The
weather was pleasant, the elder-trees in full bloom, and they make a fine show; the woods just
in their greatest beauty; the grass-fields generally uncut; and the little gardens of the labourers
full of flowers; the roses and honeysuckles perfuming the air at every cottage-door. Throughout
all England these cottages and gardens are the most interesting objects that the country presents,
and they are particularly so in Kent and Sussex. This part of these counties have the great
blessing of numerous woods: these furnish fuel, nice sweet fuel, for the heating of ovens and
for all other purposes: they afford materials for the making of pretty pigsties, hurdles, and
dead fences of various sorts; they afford materials for making little cow-sheds; for the sticking
of peas and beans in the gardens; and for giving to every thing a neat and substantial appearance.
These gardens, and the look of the cottages, the little flower-gardens, which you every where
see, and the beautiful hedges of thorn and of privet; these are the objects to delight the
eyes, to gladden the heart, and to fill it with gratitude to God, and with love for the people;
and, as far as my observation has gone, they are objects to be seen in no other country in
the world. The cattle in Sussex are of a pale red colour, and very fine. I used to think that
the Devonshire were the handsomest cows and oxen, but I have changed my mind; those of Sussex,
of which I never took so much notice before, are handsomer as well as larger; and the oxen
are almost universally used as working cattle.

"Throughout this county I did not observe, in my late ride, one single instance of want of
neatness about a poor man's house. It is the same with regard to the middle ranks: all is neat
and beautiful, and particularly the hedges, of which I saw the handsomest white thorn hedge
at Seddlescomb, that ever I saw in my life. It formed the inclosure of a garden in front of
a pretty good house. It was about five feet high, about fifteen inches through; it came close
to the ground, and it was sloped a little towards the top on each side, leaving a flat about
four inches wide on the top of all. It had just been clipped; and it was as perpendicular and
as smooth as a wall: I put my eye and looked along the sides of the several lines near the
top, and if it had been built of stone, it could not have been truer. I lament that I did not
ask the name of the owner, for it does him infinite credit. Those who see nothing but the nasty
slovenly places in which labourers live, round London, know nothing of England. The fruit-trees
are all kept in the nicest order; every bit of paling or wall is made use of, for the training
of some sort or other. At Lamberhurst, which is one of the most beautiful villages that man
ever sat his eyes on, I saw what I never saw before; namely, a gooseberry tree trained against
a house. The house was one of those ancient buildings, consisting of a frame of oak wood, the
internal filled up with brick, plastered over. The tree had been planted at the foot of one
of the perpendicular pieces of wood; from the stem which, mounted up this piece of wood, were
taken side limbs to run along the horizontal pieces. There were two windows, round the frame
of each of which the limbs had been trained. The height of the highest shoot was about ten
feet from the ground, and the horizontal shoots on each side were from eight to ten feet in
length. The tree had been judiciously pruned, and all the limbs were full of very large gooseberries,
considering the age of the fruit. This is only one instance out of thousands that I saw of
extraordinary pains taken with the gardens."

       *       *       *       *       *

A WINTER'S NIGHT.

P.B. SHELLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

HACKNEY COACHES.

Nothing in nature or art can be so abominable as those vehicles at this hour. We are quite
satisfied that, except an Englishman, who will endure any thing, no native of any climate under
the sky would endure a London hackney coach; that an Ashantee gentleman would scoff at it;
and that an aboriginal of New South Wales would refuse to be inhumed within its shattered and
infinite squalidness. It is true, that the vehicle has its merits, if variety of uses can establish
them. The hackney coach conveys alike the living and the dead. It carries the dying man to
the hospital, and when doctors and tax-gatherers can tantalize no more, it carries him to Surgeons'
Hall, and qualifies him to assist the "march of mind" by the section of body. If the midnight
thief find his plunder too ponderous for his hands, the hackney coach offers its services,
and is one of the most expert conveyances. Its other employments are many, and equally meritorious,
and doubtless society would find a vacuum in its loss. Yet we cordially wish that the Maberley
brain were set at work upon this subject, and some substitute contrived. The French have led
the way, and that too by the most obvious and simple arrangement possible. The "Omnibus,"--for
they still have Latin enough in France for the name of this travelling collection of all sorts
of human beings--the Omnibus is a long coach, carrying fifteen or eighteen people, all inside.
For two-pence halfpenny it carries the individual the length of the Boulevard, or the whole
diameter of Paris. Of those carriages there were about half-a-dozen some months ago, and they
have been augmented since; their profits were said to have repaid the outlay within the first
year: the proprietors, among whom is Lafitte, the banker, are making a large revenue out of
Parisian sous, and speculation is still alive.--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANKLIN'S GRAVE.

Captain Basil Hall, in his Travels in North America, just published, says, "On the 12th of
December, we made a pilgrimage to the tomb of Franklin--dear old Franklin! It consists of a
large marble slab, laid flat on the ground, with nothing carved upon it but these words:--

  BENJAMIN AND DEBORAH
  FRANKLIN.
  1790.

Franklin, it will be recollected, wrote a humorous epitaph for himself; but his good taste
and good sense showed him how unsuitable to his living character it would have been to jest
in such a place. After all, his literary works, scientific fame, and his undoubted patriotism,
form his best epitaph. Still, it may be thought, he might have been distinguished in his own
land by a more honourable resting-place than the obscure corner of an obscure burying-ground,
where his bones lie indiscriminately along with those of ordinary mortals; and his tomb, already
wellnigh hid in the rubbish, may soon be altogether lost. One little circumstance, however,
about this spot is very striking. No regular path has been made to the grave, which lies considerably
out of the road; but the frequent tread of visiters having pressed down the rank grass which
grows in such places, the way to the tombstone is readily found without any guide."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN INDIAN SULTANA IN PARIS.

It is known to very few even in France that an Indian Sultana, a descendant of Tamerlane, named
Aline of Eldir, has been living in Paris, poor and forgotten, for above forty years. This heiress
to a great kingdom was stolen almost out of her cradle, and deserted by the robbers on the
coast of France. She was presented to the princesses of the old court, and conceived a particular
attachment for the Princess de Lamballe; but when, at the age of only nine or ten years, her
beauty had attracted too much notice, and nothing but a lettre de cachet could secure her from
the persecutions of an exalted personage, she exchanged a convent for a prison. The revolution
set Aline at liberty. At the time of the Egyptian campaign, the man who was destined to rule
France, and almost all Europe, and who had probably thus early turned his attention to India,
is said to have thought of the heiress of Tamerlane, and to have formed the plan of restoring
the illustrious stranger to her native land. Josephine interested herself on this occasion
for the Sultana; but this had no influence upon her condition. Unhappy, surrounded only by
a few pious nuns, and urged by her confessor, she renounced the religion of Mahomet, and became
a Christian. At length, in December, 1818, an Indian Sheik, named Goolam, arrived in Paris,
with instructions to claim the Princess Aline from the Court of France. The Envoy sought out
the Sultana: he informed her, that her relations were desirous of her return; that she should
be reinstated in the rank which was her right, and again behold the bright sun and the beautiful
face of her own Asia, upon the sole condition that she would forsake Christ for Mahomet. No
persuasions, however, could prevail upon the convert to comply with this requisition; Goolam
went back to India without accomplishing the object of his mission, which produced no improvement
in her straitened circumstances. Two years afterwards, she learned that an Indian Prince had
landed in England with a splendid retinue, including three females, but that he had been obliged
by the English government to embark again immediately for India. Aline had no doubt that this
event had some connexion with her history, but she heard no more of the matter.

These particulars are chiefly extracted from the preface to the books of the Princess, written
by the Marquess de Fortia. This nobleman generously took upon himself the charge of supporting
Aline, who has now attained the age of sixty years in a foreign land.--Court Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAKING PUNCH.

(From the Noctes--Blackwood.)

Shepherd.--I hae mony a time thocht it took as muckle natural genius to mak a jug of punch
as an epic poem, sic as Paradise Lost, or even Queen Hynde hersell.

Odoherty.--More, my friend, more. I think an ingenious comparison between these works of intellect
could be easily made by a man of a metaphysical turn of mind.

North.--A more interesting consideration would be, the effect produced upon the national character,
by the mere circumstance of the modes of preparing the different beverages of different countries.
Much of the acknowledged inferiority of the inhabitants of wine countries, arises from the
circumstance of having their liquor prepared to their hand. There is no stretch of imagination
in pouring wine ready made from carafe, or barochio, or flask, into a glass--the operation
is merely mechanical; whereas, among us punch drinkers, the necessity of a nightly manufacture
of a most intricate kind, calls forth habits of industry and forethought--induces a taste for
chemical experiment--improves us in hygrometry, and many other sciences--to say nothing of
the geographical reflections drawn forth by the pressure of the lemon, or the colonial questions,
which press upon every meditative mind on the appearance of white sugar.

LION-EATING AND HANGING.

North.--When I was at Timbuctoo--

Shepherd (aside.)--A lang yarn is beginning the noo--

Moses Edrehi.--Sind sie geweson, sare, dans I'Afrique?

North.--Many years--I was Sultan of Bello for a long period, until dethroned by an act of the
grossest injustice; but I intend to expose the traitorous conspirators to the indignation of
an outraged world.

Tickler (aside to Shepherd.)--He's raving.

Shepherd (to Tickler.)--Dementit.

Odoherty (to both.)--Mad as a hatter. Hand me a segar.

Moses Edrehi.--Yo suis of Madoc.

North (aside.)--Zounds! (to Edrehi) I never chanced to pass that way--the emperor and I were
not on good terms.

Moses Edrehi.--Then, sare, you was good luck to no pass, for the emperor was a man ver disagreeáble
ven no gut humours. Gott keep ush! He hat lions in cage--and him gab peoples zu de lions--dey
roarsh--oh, mucho, mucho!--and eats de poor peoples--Gott keep ush! a ver disagreeáble man
dat emperor.

Shepherd.--Nae doot--it canna be a pleasant thing to be gobbled by a lion. Oh, sirs, imagine
yoursell daundering out to Canaan, to take your kail wi' our frien' James, and as ye're passing
the Links, out jumps a lion, and at you!

Odoherty.--The Links--oh! James, you are no Polyglott.

Tickler.--I don't wish to insinuate that I should like to be eaten, either by lion or shepherd,
but I confess that I consider that the new drop would be a worse fate than either.

North.--Quite mistaken--the drop's a trifle.

Moses Edrehi.--Ja whöl, Milord.

Shepherd.--As to being hangit, why, that's a matter that happens to mony a deacent man, and
it's but a spurl or tway, and a gaspin gurble, an' ae stour heave, and a's ower; ye're dead
ere a body's weel certified that the board's awa' from behind you--and the night-cap's a great
blessing, baith to you and the company. The gilliteen again, I'm tauld its just perfectly ridiculous
how soon that does it's turn. Up ye come, and tway chiels ram your head into a shottle in a
door like, and your hands are clasped ahint ye, and swee gangs the door, and you upset headforemost,
and in below the axe, and hangie just taps you on the neck to see that it's in the richt nick,
and whirr, whirr, whirr, touch the spring, and down comes the thundering edge, loaded with
at least a hunder weight o' lead--your head's aff like a sybo--Tuts, that's naething--onybody
might mak up their mind to be justified on the gilliteen.

Odoherty.--The old Dutch way--the broadsword--is, after all, the best; by much the easiest
and the genteelest. You are seated in a most comfortable arm-chair with a silk handkerchief
over your eyes--they read a prayer if you are so inclined--you call for a glass of wine, or
a cup of coffee--an iced cream--a dram--any thing you please, in fact, and your desires are
instantly complied with--you put the cup to the lip, and just at that moment swap comes the
whistling sabre.

Shepherd.--Preserve us! keep your hand to yoursell, Captain.

Odoherty.--Sweep he comes--the basket is ready, they put a clean towel over it--pack off the
cold meat to the hospital--scrub the scaffold--take it to pieces--all within five minutes.

Shepherd.--That's capital. In fact a' these are civilized exits--but oh! man, man, to think
of a lion on the Burntsfield Links--what would your gowfers say to that, Mr. Tickler?

Tickler.--A rum customer certainly.

