Take Violets, and Hollyhokes, and Mercury, the leaves of these Hearbs, or the seeds of them,
also the rinde of the Elderne tree, and Leydwort, of each of these a handfull, and beat them
small, and seeth them in water, till halfe be consumed, and put thereto a little oyle Olive,
and make thereof a plaister, and lay it to the soare and reines; also in the summer thou must
make him a drink on this manner, take Saxifrage, and the leaves of Elderne, five leav'd grasse,
and seath them in a pottell of staile Ale, till the halfe be wasted, then straine it, and keep
it clean, and let the sick drink thereof first and last, and if you lack these hearbs because
of winter, then take the roots of five-leav'd grasse, and dry them, and make thereof a powder,
then take Oyster-shells, and burne them, and make powder also of them, and mingling them together,
let the sick use thereof in his pottage, and drink, and it will help him.

A Medicine for sore blood-shotten and Rhuematick eyes.

Take ground Ivy, Daises, and Celedony, of each a like quantity, stamp and straine out the juice
out of them, and put to it a little brown Sugar Candy dissolved in white Rose-water, and drop
two or three drops of this liquor at one time into the grieved eye, with a feather, lying upon
the back when you doe it an hour after, this is a most approved Medicine to take away all Inflamations,
Spots, Webbs, Itches, Smartings, or any griefe whatsoever in the eyes.

A Glister to open and loosen the Body being bound, which may safely be administred to any man
or woman.

Take Mellowes and Mercury unwashed, of each two handfulls, halfe a handfull of Barley clean
rubbed and washed, boyle them in a pottell of running water to a quart, then strayne out the
water, and put it in a Skillet, and put to it three spoonfulls of Sallet Oyle, and two spoonfulls
of Honey, and a little salt; then make it luke warm, and so minister it.

To cleanse the head, and take the Ache away.

Chew the root of Pellitory of Spaine, often in the mouth.

A Medicine that hath healed old Sores upon the leggs, that have run so long that the bones
have been seen.

Take a quantity of good sweet Cream, and as much Brimstone beaten in fine powder, as will make
it thick like Paste, then take so much Butter as will make it into the form of Oyntmemt, and
herewith annoynt the place grieved, twice a day.

An Oyntment for a Rupture.

Take of Sanicle two handfulls, of Adders tongue, Doves foot, and Shephards purse, of each as
much, of Limaria one handfull, chop them somewhat small, and boyle them in Deers seuet, untill
the Hearbs doe crumble, and wax dry.

A Barley Water to purge the Lungs and lights of all Diseases.

Take halfe a pound of faire Barley, a gallon of running water, Licorice halfe an ounce, Fennell
seed, Violet leaves, Parsley seed, of each one quarter of an ounce, red Roses as much, Hysop
and Sage dryed, a good quantity of either, Harts tongue twelve leaves, a quarter of a pound
of Figges, and as many Raisons, still the Figges and Raisons, put them all into a new earthen
pot, with the water cold, let them seeth well, and then strain the clearest from it, drink
of this a good quantity, morning and afternoone, observing good diet upon it, it taketh away
all Agues that come of heat, and all ill heat; it purgeth the Lights, Spleene, Kidneyes, and
Bladder.

To Cure the Diseases of the Mother.

Take six or seaven drops of the Spirit of Castoreum in the beginning of the fit, in two or
three spoonfulls of posset Ale, applying a Plaister of Gavanum to the Navill.

To kill Warts: an approved Medicine.

Take a Radish root, scrape off the out side of it, and rub it all over with salt, then set
it thus dressed upright in a saucer, or some other small dish, that you may save the liquor
that runneth from it, and therewith annoynt your Warts three or four times in a day, the oftner
the better, and in five or six dayes they will consume away, Sepe probatum.

For the Piles.

Set a Chafin-dish of coales under a close stoole chaire, or in a close stoole case, and strew
Amber beaten in fine powder, upon the coales, and sit downe over it, that the smoak may ascend
up into the place grieved.

A Medicine for the Piles.

Take a little Orpine, Hackdagger, and Elecampane, stamp them all together with Boares grease,
into the form of an Oyntment, and lay them to the place grieved.

A Diet for the Patient that hath Ulcers or Wounds that will hardly be Cured with Oyntments,
Salves, or Plaisters.

Take one pound of Guaicum, boyle it in three pottels of Ale, with a soft fire, to the consuming
of two parts, but if it be where you may have wild Whay, or cheese Whay, they are better. Let
the Patient drink of this morning and evening, halfe a pint at a time, and let him sweat after
it two hours. His drink at his Meals must be thus used, put into the same vessel where the
former was made, to the Guaicum that is left, three pottels of Ale, and not Whey, let it boyle
to the one halfe, let him drink thereof at all times, and at his meale, which must be but one
in a day, and that so little, that he may rise hungry. Thus he must doe for five dayes together,
but he must first be purged.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Cowslips.

Oyle of Cowslips.

Oyle of Cowslips, if the Nape of the Neck be annointed with it, is good for the Palsie, it
comforteth the sinews, the heart and the head.

The use of the Oyle of Wormwood, and Oyle of Mint.

Oyle of Wormwood is good for straines and bruises, and to comfort the stomach; it is made of
the green Hearb, as are the Oyle of Cammomile, Rue, and Mint, are made.

Oyle of Mint comforteth the stomack, overlayed or weakned with Casting, it doth drive back,
or dry up Weomend breasts, and doth keep them from being soare, being therewith annointed.

Syrupe of Cowslips.

Instead of running water you must take distilled water of Cowslips, put thereto your Cowslip
flowers clean picked, and the green knobs in the bottome cut off, and therewith boyle up a
Syrupe, as in the Syrupe of Roses is shewed; it is good against the Frensie, comforting and
staying the head in all hot Agues, &c. It is good against the Palsie, and procures a sick Patient
to sleep; it must be taken in Almond-milk, or some other warm thing.

To keep Cowslips for Salates.

Take a quart of White wine Vineger, and halfe a quarter of a pound of fine beaten Sugar, and
mix them together, then take your Cowslips, pull them out of the podds, and cut off the green
knobs at the lower end, put them into the pot or glasse wherein you mind to keep them, and
well shaking the Vineger and Sugar together in the glasse wherein they were before, powre it
upon the Cowslips, and so stirring them morning and evening to make them settle for three weeks,
keep them for your use.

To Conserve Cowslips.

Gather your Flowers in the midst of the day when all the dew is off, then cut off all the white
leaving none but the yellow blossome so picked and cut, before they wither, weigh out ten ounces,
taking to every ten ounces of them, or greater proportion, if you please, eight ounces of the
best refined Sugar, in fine powder, put the Sugar into a pan, and candy it, with as little
water as you can, then taking it off the fire, put in your Flowers by little and little, never
ceasing to stir them till they be dry, and enough; then put them into glasses, or gally pots,
and keep them dry for your use. These are rather Candied then Conserved Cowslips.

To Preserve all kinde of Flowers in the Spanish Candy in Wedges.

Take Violets, Cowslips, or any other kinde of Flowers, pick them, and temper them with the
pap of two roasted Apples, and a drop or two of Verjuice, and a graine of Muske, then take
halfe a pound of fine hard Sugar, boyle it to the height of Manus Christi, then mix them together,
and pour it on a wet Pye plate, then cut it it in Wedges before it be through cold, gild it,
and so you may box it, and keep it all the year. It is a fine sort of Banquetting stuffe, and
newly used, your Manus Christi must boyle a good while and be kept with good stirring.

A Medicine to break and heale sore breasts of Women, used by Mid-wives, and other skillfull
Women in London.

Boyle Oatmeale,, of the smallest you can get, and red Sage together, in running or Conduict
water, till it be thick enough to make a Plaister and then put into it a fit proportion of
Honey, and let it boyle a little together, take it off the fire, and while it is yet boyling
hot, put thereto so much of the best Venice Terpentine as will make it thick enough to spread,
then spreading it on some soft leather, or a good thick linnen cloath, apply it to the brest,
and it will first break the soare; and after that being continued, will also heale it up.

A Medicine that hath recovered some from the Dropsie whome the Physitian hath given over.

Take green Broome and burne it in some clean place, that you may save the ashes of it, take
some ten or twelve spoonfulls of the same Ashes, and boyle them in a pint of White wine till
the vertue of it be in the wine, then coole it, and drayne the wine from the dreggs, and make
three draughts of the Wine, and drink one fasting in the morning, another at three in the afternoone,
another late at night neer going to bed. Continue this, and by Gods grace it will cure you.

An especiall Medicine for all manner of Poyson.

Take Hemp seed, dry it very well, and get off the husks, and beat the Hemp seed into fine powder,
take Mintes also, dry them, and make them into powder, boyle a spoonfull of either of these
in halfe a pint of Goats milk, a pretty while, then put the milk into a cup to coole, and put
into it a spoonfull of Treacle, and stir them together till it be coole enough, then drink
it in the morning fasting, and eat nothing till noon, or at least two hours; doe the like at
night, and use it so three dayes, and it will kill and overcome any poyson.

Doctor Lewin's Unguentum Rosatum, good for the heat in the Back.

Take a certain quantity of Barrowes grease; Oyle of sweet Almonds, and Rose-water, either red
or damask, of each a like quantity, but of neither so much as of the Hoggs grease, beat them
together to an Oyntment, put it in some gally pot, and when you would use it, heat it, and
therewith annoynt the Back and Reins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Beanes.

To defend Humours.

Take Beanes, the rinde or the upper skin being pul'd off, bruise them, and mingle them with
the white of an Egg, and make it stick to the temples, it keepeth back humours flowing to the Eyes.

To dissolve the Stone; which is one of the Physitians greatest secrets.

Take a peck of green Beane cods, well cleaved, and without dew or rain, and two good handfulls
of Saxifrage, lay the same into a Still, one row of Bean cods, another of Saxifrage, and so
Distill another quart of water after this manner, and then Distill another proportion of Bean
codds alone, and use to drink oft these two Waters; if the Patient be most troubled with heat
of the Reins, then it is good to use the Bean codd water stilled alone more often, and the
other upon comming downe of the sharp gravell or stone.

Unguentum Sanativum.

