PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 146.

JANUARY 7, 1914.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMENDE DÉSHONORABLE.

    Heavily dragged the night; the Year
      Was passing, and the clock's slow tick
    Boomed its sad message to my ear
      And made me pretty sick.
   "You have been slack," I told myself, "and weak;
      You have done foolishly, from wilful choice;
      Sloth and procrastination--" Here my voice
        Broke in a squeak.

    And deep repentance welled in me
      As I mused darkly on my sin;
    Yea, Conscience stung me, like a bee
      That gets her barb well in.
   "Next year," I swore, in this compunctious mood,
     "I will be energetic, virtuous, kind;
      Unflinching I will face the awful grind
        Of being good."

    I paused, half troubled by a thought--
      Were my proposals too sublime?
    Vowed I more deeply than I ought?
      I glanced to see the time.
    It was 12.10 A.M. At once a thrill,
      A wave of manful resolution, sped
      Through all my being. "Yes," I bravely said;
        "Next year I will!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLAY OF FEATURES.

    [Being Sir GEORGE ALEXANDER'S production of The Attack at
    the St. James's.]

SCENE--Alexandre Mérital's house.

ACT I.

Daniel Mérital. My father is a wonderful man. Leader of the Social Party in the Chamber of
Deputies, noted among his colleagues for his absolute integrity, supported by the millionaire
newspaper proprietor, Frépeau, whose motives, between ourselves, are not altogether above--
Oh, are you there, Father? I didn't see you. I'm just off to play tennis.                 
[Exit.

Enter Renée de Rould.

Renée. Mr. Mérital, may I speak to you a moment?

Georges Alexandre Mérital (with, characteristic suavity). Certainly.

Renée, I love you. Will you marry me?

Mérital (surprised). Well, really--this is--I--you--we--er, he, she, they--Frankly, you embarrass
me. (Apologetically) This is my embarrassed face.

Renée. But I thought you loved me. Don't you?

Mérital. No. That is to say, yes. Or rather--

Renée (tearfully). I w-wish you could make it plainer whether you d-do love me and are pretending
you don't, or you d-don't love me and are pretending you do. It's v-very unsettling for a young
girl not to know.

Sir GEORGES ALEXANDRE (surprised and a little hurt). Can't you tell from my face?

Miss MARTHA HEDMAN. This is my first appearance in England, Sir GEORGES.

Sir GEORGES. True. I was forgetting. Well, when you have been with us a little longer, you
will know that this is my face when I adore anyone very much, but, owing to an unfortunate
episode in my past life, am forced to hide my love.

Renée (alarmed). Your past wife isn't alive somewhere?

Mérital. Oh no, not that sort of thing at all. (Embracing her
carefully.) I will marry you, Renée, but run along now because my
friend Frépeau is coming, and he probably wants to talk business.
                                                   [Exit Renée.

Enter Frépeau.

Frépeau (excitedly). Mérital, you are in danger. A scandalous libel is being circulated about you.

Mérital (calmly). Pooh! Faugh!

Frépeau. It is said that thirty years ago (Alexandre's nose twitches), when you were in a solicitor's
office (Alexandre's jaw drops), you stole ninepence from the stamp drawer (Alexandre's eyeballs
roll). Of course it is a lie?

Mérital (with a great effort obtaining command of his features again). Of course.

CURTAIN.

ACT II.

Daniel Mérital. Father's face has been very odd these last few weeks. Sometimes I wonder whether
he didn't steal the money after all. But we shall know after the libel action this afternoon.
It starts at two. Oh, are you there, Father? I'm just going to see a man about something. 
[Exit.

Enter Frépeau.

Mérital. Ah, Frépeau, the man I wanted to see. (Plaintively) Frépeau, when you called on me
in the First Act, don't you think you might have given some indication by the play of your
features that it was you who originated this libel against me, and that you are my deadly enemy?
The merest twitch of the ears would have been enough.

HOLMAN CLARK. I wanted it to be a surprise for the audience.

Sir GEORGES. Yes, but is that art?

HOLMAN CLARK. Besides, in real life--

Sir GEORGES (amazed). Real life? Good Heavens, HOLMAN, is this your first appearance in England
too?

HOLMAN CLARK (annoyed). Let's get on with the play.

Sir GEORGES. Certainly. Wait a moment till I've got my "strong-man-with-his-back-to-the-wall"
expression. (Arranging his face.) How's that?

HOLMAN CLARK. Begin again.... That's better.

Mérital (sternly). Now then, Frépeau! I must ask you to give instructions that the libel is
withdrawn in court this afternoon. If not--

Frépeau. Well?

Mérital (softly). I know somebody else who stole something from the stamp drawer thirty years
ago. (Frépeau's whiskers tremble.) Aha, I thought I'd move you this time.

Frépeau. It's a lie! How did you find out?

Mérital (blandly). I said to myself, "I am the hero of this play and I've got to get out of
this mess somehow. If I could only find some papers incriminating the villain--that's you all
would be well." So I--er--found them.... It's no good, Frépeau. Unless you let me off, you're done.

Frépeau (getting up). Well, I suppose I must. But personally I'd be ashamed to escape through
such a rotten coincidence as that. (Making for the door.) I'll just go and arrange it. Er,
I suppose this is the end?

Sir GEORGES. The end? Good Heavens, man, I've got my big scene to come. I have to explain why
Mérital stole the money thirty years ago!

HOLMAN CLARK (eagerly). Let me guess. His wife was starv--

SIR GEORGES. No, no, don't spoil it. (Sternly) It's a very serious thing, HOLMAN, to spoil
an actor-manager's big scene.

CURTAIN.

ACT III.

Daniel Mérital. Father has won his case. I am glad. Oh, are you
there, Father? I'm just going downstairs to count the telegrams.
                                                            [Exit.

Enter Renée.

Renée. You have won the case? I knew it. I knew you were innocent.

Mérital (nobly). Renee, I am not innocent. I did steal that ninepence. I would have confessed
it before, but I had to think of my family. (Cheers from the gallery.) Of course it would also
have been unpleasant for me if it had been known, but that did not influence me. (More cheers.)
I thought only of my children. Let me tell you now why I stole it.

Renée (eagerly). Let me guess. Your wife was starving--

Mérital (astounded). Wonderful! How ever did you know?

Renée. --and you meant to repay the money.

Mérital. More and more marvellous. Yes, Renée, that was how it was. But it hardly does justice
to the affair. It is too short. I want to tell you the story of my whole life and then you
will understand. Watch my face carefully and observe how it works; notice the constant movement
of my hands; listen to the inflections of my voice. This is going to be the longest speech
ever made by an actor-manager, and you mustn't miss a moment of it. H'r'm! Now then. (Nobly)
I was born fifty-three years ago. My father....

Renée (half-an-hour later). I still love you.

Mérital (with some truth). What a love yours is!

Enter Daniel, Julien and Georgette Mérital.

Daniel. Father, we have a confession to make. For some time we doubted your innocence. Your
face--well, you'd have doubted it yourself if you'd seen it.

Mérital (taking his hand affectionately). Ah! Daniel, I see I must tell you the story of my
life. (Excitement among the audience.) And you too, Julien. (Panic.) Yes, and--little Georgette!

SAFETY CURTAIN.

A. A. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROMANCE OF A BATTLESHIP.

(From the Navy League Annual of 1916.)

I have just returned (writes a Naval correspondent) from an interesting visit to the condemned
battleship, H.M.S. Indefensible, which is now anchored off Brightlingsea, in the charge of
retired petty-officer Herbert Tompkins and his wife.

The history of H.M.S. Indefensible, as gathered from the lips of her present curator, is so
romantic as to be worthy of permanent record. In reply to my first question, "Whom did she
belong to first of all?" Mr. Tompkins said, "Well, she was ordered first of all by the Argentine
Republic, but, owing to a change of Government, they sold her to the Italians. I remember the
launch at Barrow quite well," he said. "It was a mighty fine show, with the Italian Ambassador
and his wife--the Magnifico Pomposo, they called her, I think it was--and there was speechifying
and hurraying and enough champagne drunk to float her. That was just three years ago: a super-Dreadnought,
they called her."

"Then how did the British Government get her?"

"Lor bless you, Sir, that didn't come for a long time yet. Ye see, Italy shortly afterwards
made an alliance with Denmark, and, wishing to do the Danes a good turn, she arranged to sell
them the Magnifico Pomposo at cost price--about three millions I think it was. But immediately
afterwards the Russo-Chinese war broke out, and the Chinese offered the Danes four millions
for the Dannebrog, as they had called her, so by the time the engines were put into her she
had been rechristened the Hoang-Ho. But the war never came off: you remember that Mr. ROOSEVELT
settled it by fighting a single combat with the Russian champion after he had been appointed
President of China; so the Chinese leased the Hoang-Ho to the King of SIAM for four years at
a million a year."

"Did she get out to Siam, then?"

"Oh no, Sir, no fear. The crew ran her on the Goodwin Sands on her trial trip, and there she
stuck for a year. Before they got her off the Siamese had been released from their bargain
by the Hague Tribunal, Mr. ROOSEVELT had resigned the Presidency of China for that of Mexico,
and the new President sold the Chulalongkorn back to Great Britain. Of course by that time
she was quite obsolete, so they called her the Indefensible, and put a nucleus crew on board
for a few months. Then when Mr. LLOYD GEORGE became Prime Minister, they offered her to Canada
as a gift; but the Canadians didn't like her name. And when Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL came back
last month he decided that she was to be made a target; but last week I heard she was to be
sold for scrap-iron."

"Then whom does she belong to now?"

"Well, Sir, some says she belongs to Canada, and others say she's British, and others say she
belongs to Mr. CHURCHILL, but in a manner of speaking I think she rightly belongs to Mrs. Tompkins
and me."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "On making enquiries at the Hospital this afternoon, we learn
    that the deceased is as well as can be expected."--Jersey
    Evening Post.

It would, of course, be foolish to expect much.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW BOOK OF BEAUTY. Their favours are not to be bought. Always something utilitarian or scientific.
But why should we not say that it was the introduction of Pekingese into England from China?
According to an historical sketch at the beginning of this book, the first Pekingese were brought
over in 1860, after the occupation of Pekin by the Allies. The first black ones came here in
1896, and now in 1914 there are thousands of these wholly alluring and adorable and masterful
little big-hearted creatures in England, turning staid men and women into ecstatic worshippers
and making children lyrical with cries of appreciation. The book before me is the finest monument
yet raised to this conquering breed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MISUNDERSTOOD.

(A Story of the Stone Age.)

Of all the young bachelors in his tribe not one was more highly esteemed than Ug, the son of
Zug. He was one of the nicest young prehistoric men that ever sprang seven feet into the air
to avoid the impulsive bite of a sabre-tooth tiger, or cheered the hearts of grave elders searching
for inter-tribal talent by his lightning sprints in front of excitable mammoths. Everybody
liked Ug, and it was a matter of surprise to his friends that he had never married.

One bright day, however, they were interested to observe that he had begun to exhibit all the
symptoms. He brooded apart. Twice in succession he refused a second help of pterodactyl at
the tribal luncheon table. And there were those who claimed to have come upon him laboriously
writing poetry on the walls of distant caves.

It should be understood that in those days only the most powerful motive, such as a whole-hearted
love, could drive a man to writing poetry; for it was not the ridiculously simple task which
it is to-day. The alphabet had not yet been invented, and the only method by which a young
man could express himself was by carving or writing on stone a series of pictures, each of
which conveyed the sense of some word or phrase. Thus, where the modern bard takes but a few
seconds to write, "You made me love you. I didn't want to do it, I didn't want to do it," Ug,
the son of Zug, had to sit up night after night till he had carved three trees, a plesiosaurus,
four kinds of fish, a star-shaped rock, eleven different varieties of flowering shrub, and
a more or less lifelike representation of a mammoth surprised while bathing. It is little wonder
that the youth of the period, ever impetuous, looked askance at this method of revealing their
passion, and preferred to give proof of their sincerity and fervour by waiting for the lady
of their affections behind a rock and stunning her with a club.

But the refined and sensitive nature of Ug, the son of Zug, shrank from this brusque form of
wooing. He was shy with women. To him there was something a little coarse, almost ungentlemanly,
in the orthodox form of proposal; and he had made up his mind that, if ever he should happen
to fall in love, he would propose by ideograph.

It was shortly after he had come to this decision that, at a boy-and-girl dance given by a
popular local hostess, he met the divinest creature he had ever seen. Her name was Wug, the
daughter of Glug; and from the moment of their introduction he realised that she was the one
girl in the world for him. It only remained to compose the ideograph.

Having steadied himself as far as possible by carving a few poems, as described above, he addressed
himself to the really important task of the proposal.

It was extraordinarily difficult, for Ug had not had a very good education. All he knew he
had picked up in the give and take of tribal life. For this reason he felt it would be better
to keep the thing short. But it was hard to condense all he felt into a brief note. For a long
time he thought in vain, then one night, as he tossed sleeplessly on his bed of rocks, he came
to a decision. He would just ideograph, "Dear Wug, I love you. Yours faithfully, Ug. P.S. R.S.V.P.,"
and leave it at that. So in the morning he got to work, and by the end of the week the ideograph
was completed. It consisted of a rising sun, two cave-bears, a walrus, seventeen shin-bones
of the lesser rib-nosed baboon, a brontosaurus, three sand-eels, and a pterodactyl devouring
a mangold-wurzel. It was an uncommonly neat piece of work, he considered, for one who had never
attended an art-school. He was pleased with it. It would, he flattered himself, be a queer
sort of girl who could stand out against that. For the first time for weeks he slept soundly
and peacefully.

Next day his valet brought him with his morning beverage a piece of flat rock. On it was carved
a simple human thigh-bone. He uttered a loud cry. She had rejected him. The parcel-post, an
hour later, brought him his own ideograph, returned without a word.

Ug's greatest friend in the tribe was Jug, son of Mug, a youth of extraordinary tact and intelligence.
To him Ug took his trouble.

Jug heard his story, and asked to see exactly what he had ideographed.

"You must have expressed yourself badly," he said.

"On the contrary," replied Ug, with some pique, "my proposal was brief, but it was a model
of what that sort of proposal should be. Here it is. Read it for yourself."

Jug read it. Then he looked at his friend, concerned.

"But, my dear old man, what on earth did you mean by saying she has red hair and that you hate
the sight of her?"

"What do you mean?"

"Why, this ichthyosaurus."

"That's not an ichthyosaurus. It's a brontosaurus."

"It's not a bit like a brontosaurns. And it is rather like an ichthyosaurus. Where you went
wrong was in not taking a few simple lessons in this sort of thing first."

"If you ask me," said Ug disgustedly, "this picture-writing is silly
rot. To-morrow I start an Alphabet."
       *       *       *       *       *
But on the morrow he was otherwise employed. He was standing,
concealed behind a rock, at the mouth of the cave of Wug, daughter
of Glug. There was a dreamy look in his eyes, and his fingers
were clasped like steel bands round the handle of one of the most
business-like clubs the Stone Age had ever seen. Orthodoxy had found
another disciple.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARIVARIA.

Sir ERNEST SHACKLETON is to undertake a new expedition to the South Pole, and across the whole
South Polar Continent. It is said that an offer from Dr. COOK, who happens to be over here,
to show Sir ERNEST how he might save himself much wearisome travelling in achieving his object,
has been rejected.

       ***

Judge PARRY declares, in the current number of The Cornhill, that lost golf balls belong to
the KING; and the ballroom at Buckingham Palace is, we understand, to be enlarged at once.

       ***

Mr. BERNARD SHAW is the latest addition to Madame TUSSAUD'S gallery of wax-works. But Mr. CHESTERTON
must not be jealous. He too, we understand, will be placed there if room can be found for him.

       ***

From some correspondence in The Express we learn that members of more than one savage tribe
have a habit of standing on one leg. We see no objection to this at all, but we were bound
to protest the other day, in a crowded train, when we came across a stout gentleman standing
on one foot. The foot, we should mention, was ours.

       ***

Of the late Mr. JOHN WILLIAM WHITE, who was only twenty-one inches in height, we are told that
he was an ardent politician. Could he have been a Little Englander?

       ***

Straws show which way the wind blows, and the fact that the first prize in the Christmas Lottery
at Madrid has been won in Madrid, and the second in London, is held by wiseacres to prove that
there is a secret understanding between our country and Spain.

       ***

The fact that France's Colonial Empire, which is already extensive, has been increased by the
birth, during a volcanic eruption, of a new island in the New Hebrides, has caused some little
irritation in Germany.

       ***

The Lost Property department of Scotland Yard will, it is said, this year easily beat all previous
records in the number of articles lost. But we English have always had the reputation of being
good losers.

       ***

It is announced that Miss PHYLLIS DESMOND, of the Gaiety Theatre, and Mr. C.R. FINCH NOYES,
of the Royal Naval Flying Corps, were married secretly last June. As proving how difficult
it is to keep a secret we believe that the fact has been known for some time past both to Miss
DESMOND and Mr. NOYES.

       ***

Special cinema productions depicting scenes of a sacred nature were provided by enterprising
managers for the clergy during the holiday season. When one remembers that there is also Who's
the Lady? running under distinguished episcopal patronage, the modern curate cannot complain
that he is not well catered for.

       ***

We congratulate The Daily Mail on finding a peculiarly appropriate topic for discussion at
Christmas time. It was "Too Much Cramming."

       ***

Thieves broke into the vestry during the service and stole the gold watch and chain which the
minister preaching the Christmas sermon at Marylebone Presbyterian church had left there. The
minister must be sorry now that he did not trust his congregation.

       ***

Mr. GEORGE BAKER, of Brentwood, received a presentation the other day on completing his fiftieth
year as a carol singer. He mentioned that once, at the beginning of his career, his carol party
was broken up by an angry London householder, who fired a pistol-shot from his bedroom window.
The modern Londoner, we fear, is decadent, and lacks the necessary spirit.

       ***

Dr. MARY WILLIAMS, medical inspector of schools under the Worcestershire County Council, has
discovered, as a result of investigations, that there is a higher proportion of nervous, excitable
children among the red-haired ones than among the others. We have ourselves known more than
one such lad lose all self-control merely upon being addressed as "Carrots."

       ***

Is a motor-car, it is being asked, feminine--like a ship? A correspondent in The Times refers
to her as a lady. Presumably because she wears a bonnet.

       ***

A correspondent writes to The Pall Mall Gazette asking whether there is anything in the idea
that a large number of used penny postage stamps will enable a person to be received into a
charitable institution. We have always understood that the collector of one million of these
stamps is admitted into a lunatic asylum without having to pass the entrance examination.

       ***

A lion from the bush, attracted by the roaring of its caged relatives in a circus at Wankies,
South Africa, suddenly made its way into the menagerie. The beast was ultimately driven away
by attendants armed with red-hot pokers, but five persons were seriously injured in the panic.
The ticket-collector who let the animal in without payment has been reprimanded.

       ***

Speaking of MEDWIN'S Revised Life of Shelley a critic says, in a contemporary: "He puts the
well-known boats of Archimedes into blank verse." These boats were, we presume, fitted with
ARCHIMEDES' famous screw?

       ***

The Hindujah barrage on the Euphrates has now been completed by an English firm, and will provide
water for the Garden of Eden. The structure, we presume, is a blend of the ADAM style with
NOAH'S architecture.

       ***

"TRAINING SHIP OFF THE EMBANKMENT" is a heading which attracts our attention. This seems a
much better idea than having the vessel on the Embankment, where it would be in everyone's way.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST STRAW.

    ["The way in which individual taste is allowed to assert
    itself lends a curious charm to the present modes."--Fashion
    Note.]

  This is the finish, Josephine.
    Through every swift sartorial change
  Constant and true my love has been,
    Nor showed the least desire to range.
  The hobble only brought to me
    These thoughts with consolation laden:--
  "Lo, this is Fashion's fell decree;
  One must not blame the maiden.

  "It is not hers this hideous choice;
    She blindly follows Fashion's lead,
  And deference to a ruling voice
    Proclaims her just the wife I need.
  Nought questioning, she answers to
    That voice, as soldiers to a trumpet;"
  And thus I choked the thought that you
    Were barmy on the crumpet.

  But now unhappy doubts intrude
    To bid my satisfaction shrink;
  For Fashion in a gracious mood
    Allows her devotees to think.
  Since for your present garb, it seems,
    The mode is not to blame in toto,
  This is the end of love's young dreams
    (Dear, you may keep my photo).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Of course, there is a dress parade, with some wonderful
    dresses, but if it had been only a parade it would not have
    been less interesting."--Daily News.

It would have been more interesting--but we hardly expected The Daily News to say so.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUBSCRIPTION.

Charles, when our protest was lodged, merely replied that our favour of the 10th inst. was
to hand, and that he really could not see his way to moving further in the matter. Let me explain
the present extent of Charles's movement.

Miss Donelan, who ought to have known better, had allowed herself to be saddled with a thing
called a Branch subscription list on behalf of the St. Nicholas New Year Offering.

Having exploited the probables and possibles she finally handed the document on to me with
instructions to tout it round among my friends. (This is the sort of thing you get nowadays
for placing your life at a young woman's disposal.)

Unfortunately I have no friends just now, except what I want to keep. While I was thus at a
loss, Charles came to stay for a few days three doors off. He lives a long way away and would
have time to forget before I saw him again. So on the day before his departure I bearded him
like a man.

"Charles," I began, "you are fabulously rich. Your income comes in at such a pace that you
hardly ever know within five shillings how much you have at the bank."

Charles blinked through the smoke of a violet-tipped cigarette.

"What about it?" he asked.

"This," I said; "I am, very reluctantly, offering you the chance of doing good. All you have
to do is to sign your name here for anything up to a hundred pounds, and the good does itself.
It is the Saint Nicholas New Year Offering."

"What does it do?" asked Charles uncomfortably.

"Do?" I answered. "Why, I don't think it does exactly do. You see it's a New Year Offering."

"I see," said Charles. "It doesn't do; it offers. Just like a Member of Parliament."

"I wish," I said, "instead of being funny at other people's expense you would be serious at
your own, and tell me exactly how much I can put you down for?"

"There you go again," said Charles. "You want me to think of some definite amount on the spot.
You know I hate thinking, and I hate definite amounts. And I loathe doing anything on the spot."

I looked at the subscription list. The last entry was:--

    Major-General R. Hewland, £5 5s. 0d.

"You needn't do any thinking," I explained patiently. "You need only stick down exactly the
same as the last man. And if you'll promise to do it I'll leave the list with you, and you
can fill it in when you feel sufficiently off the spot."

"Exactly the same?" asked Charles.

"Exactly," I said, with rising hopes.

"All right," said Charles. "I'll let you have it some time."

Four days later, at Miss Donelan's urgent request, I wrote to Charles for it. It came in less
than forty-eight hours.

Extract from conclusion of subscription list returned by Charles:--

Major-General R. Hewland, £5 5s. 0d.

  "      "    "     "     "  "   "

       *       *       *       *       *

    DINNER-TABLE TOPICS.

    "MR. LLOYD GEORGE
    GOING TO A WARMER CLIMATE."

    Midland Evening News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    ANOTHER ACCIDENT TO AN INFINITIVE.

    "It is good news to at last hear that progress is being made
    again towards healing the 'split.'"--Nottingham Football
    Post.

So far not much progress is visible.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lord and Lady Arthur Hill arrived at Maples yesterday from
    London."--Observer.

And Mrs. and Miss Tomkins (in pursuit of bargains) continue to arrive daily at Peter Snelbody's
from Cricklewood.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SPELL

    whereby the Good People may be brought back to a house which
    they have deserted.

  Fairies!--whatsoever sprite
    Near about us dwells--
  You who roam the hills at night,
    You who haunt the dells--
    Where you harbour, hear us!
  By the Lady Hecate's might,
    Hearken and come near us!

  Though we greatly fear, alack!
    Cloddish unbelief
  Angered you and made you pack
    To our present grief,
    Hearts you shall not harden:
  Bathe your hurts and come you back
    Here to house and garden!

  By the oak and ash and thorn,
    By the rowan tree,
  This was done ere we were born:
    Kith nor kin are we
    Of the folk whose blindness
  Shut you out with scathe and scorn,
    Banished with unkindness.

  See, we call you, hands entwined,
    Standing at our door,
  With the glowing hearth behind
    And the wood before.
    Thence, where you are lurking,
  Back we bring you, bring and bind
    With our magic's working.

  Lo, our best we give for cess,
    Having naught above
  Handsel of our happiness,
    Seizin of our love.
    Take it then, O fairies!
  Homely gods that guard and bless,
    Little kindly Lares.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT OUR READERS THINK OF US.

The Daily Express having invited its readers to intimate their opinion of that journal, Mr.
Punch decided also to give the grumblers a chance of saying what they think of his production,
and he now publishes a typical selection of the letters which have reached him:--

    Sir,--I gave up your journal many years ago on account of its
    partisanship, and never read it now. Only last week I came
    across a paragraph in my copy which made me throw the paper
    into the waste-paper basket.

    Yours faithfully,

    VERITAS.

    Sir,--Why is it you always favour the Tories?

    Yours faithfully,

    WELSH MEMBER.

    Sir,--If you continue to publish cartoons with a pronounced
    Radical bias I am afraid you will lose at least one.

    OLD SUBSCRIBER.

    Sir,--I object to the advertisements. I think it would be a
    good move if you were to drop these, increase the number of
    pages, and reduce the price to a halfpenny. In taking this
    course you would have the support of several influential
    members of my parish, in addition to myself.

    Yours faithfully,

    A COUNTRY PARSON.

    Sir,--What your paper needs is light relief. Could you not
    give us a little humour now and then?

    Yours faithfully,

    A POPULAR WRITER.

    P.S.--The last MS. you returned to me was very much crumpled.
    Please be more careful in the future.

    Sir,--I think it a pity you publish jokes. In this age, when
    all things--even our dear Bishops--are considered fit subjects
    for jest, we could do with one serious-minded paper. Trusting
    you will think this over,

    Yours faithfully,

    HITCHY KIKUYU.

    Sir,---You should see our American comic papers.

    Yours faithfully,

    WASHINGTON G. BUSTER.

    Sir,--I find the blank pages at the back of the cartoons very
    useful for making notes on. Could you not extend this feature?

    Yours faithfully,

    PROFESSOR.

    Sir,--I think you would do well to cater more for women--who,
    after all, are a rising sex. A page each week devoted to
    modern fashions would not be at all out of place in your
    paper.

