PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 153.

OCTOBER 17, 1917.

CHARIVARIA.

The mutiny of the German sailors at Kiel is now explained. They preferred death to another
speech from the KAISER.

       ***

A Constantinople poet has translated the plays of SHAKSPEARE into Turkish. The rendering is
said to be faithful to the text, and it is assumed that a keen appreciation of Turkey's military
necessities alone accounts for his reference to the "Swan of Avon" as the "Bulbul of Potsdam."

       ***

The use of flour as an ingredient of sausages is now forbidden. Young sausages which have hitherto
been fed on bread and milk must either be broken to bones or killed for the table.

       ***

An optimist writes to express the hope that by this elimination of flour the dreadful secret
of the sausage may be at last revealed.

       ***

The German Government has created a Pulp Commission. We have always said they would be reduced
to it in time.

       ***

The King of SIAM'S royal yacht has been turned into a cargo boat. Reports that the Sacred White
Elephant has been commandeered for use as a floating dock are still unconfirmed.

       ***

For giving corn to pheasants a fine of ten pounds has been inflicted on a merchant of New York
(Lincs.) The removal en bloc of this village from the mouth of the Hudson river to its present
site should finally convince the sceptics of the magnitude of America's war effort.

       ***

The Vacant Land Cultivation Society offers a prize of ten shillings for the heaviest potato.
Some of our most notorious potato-tellers are expected to compete.

       ***

The provision of steel helmets for the Metropolitan Police is all right so far as it goes,
but the Force is still asking why it cannot be furnished with some protection for its other
extremities.

       ***

From China it is reported that an aboriginal priest now claiming the Throne has been accustomed
to eat the flesh of tigers, wolves, leopards, &c., also the human heart. It is, however, only
fair to our own restaurateurs to state that, though China is alleged to be on the eve of war,
there is as yet no food-control in that country.

       ***

An unusual scarcity of wasps is reported from various parts of the country. Nothing is being
done about it.

       ***

A calf has been sold for two thousand seven hundred guineas in Aberdeenshire. The plucky purchaser
is understood to have had for some time past a craving for a veal cutlet.

       ***

A new form of frightfulness is evidently being practised upon their guards by our interned
Huns. "Some of them," says a contemporary, "purchase a hundred cigars with a portion of the
one pound a day which is the miserable maximum they may spend on luxuries."

       ***

"People who speak of suicide seldom do anything desperate," says a well-known mental expert.
So that the KAISER'S threat to fight England to the death may be taken for what it is worth.

       ***

An extraordinary meeting of German Reichstag Members has arrived at the decision that the Germans
cannot hope for victory in the field. We see nothing extraordinary in this.

       ***

Professor BERGEN was once described as "the well-known inventor and philanthropist." He still
invents (his latest is a gas-thrower, reported by the Berliner Tageblatt to be "a veritable
monster of destruction"), but has dropped the other job.

       ***

A swallow-tail butterfly which escaped from the Zoo has been re-captured at Eastbourne. When
caught it gave the policeman to understand that it would go quietly.

       ***

Two men, we read, took twenty-two hours to chisel a hole through the three-foot flint concrete
roof of the London Opera House. The report that they did this to avoid the Entertainment Tax
has now been contradicted.

       ***

"The American Winston Churchill," says The Daily Express, "has to plod through life without
a middle name." We all have our little cross to bear. Even the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS has to
plod through life with the knowledge that there is another Winston Churchill loose about the world.

       ***

It is proposed that Parliament shall sit from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., instead of from 3 to 11 P.M.
We do not care for this crude attempt to mix business with politics.

       ***

The Boundary Commission Report advocates the creation of thirty-one new M.P.'s. It will be
a bitter disappointment for those who were sanguine enough to hope that Redistribution would
spell Reform.

       ***

The Government has commandeered all stocks of rum. The rigours of war, it seems, must be suffered
even by our little tots.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The bridegroom, 6 ft. 35 ins. in height, was wearing the
    full-dress uniform of a captain in the Army."--Great
    Yarmouth Independent.

He would need it all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Headline to a description of a recent push:--

    "VONDERFUL RESULTS."--Evening Paper.

The "Hidden Hand" in the composing-room?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INNOCENTS ABROAD.

  A Wolf there was, quite sweet and good,
  Till in his path Red Riding-Hood
  Went camouflaging through the wood--
    A brazen little terror;
  Large teeth she had and bulgy eyes
  And told the most amazing lies,
  And taught him, in a flowery guise,
    The downward route to error.

  Of Fritz's nature, fresh as morn,
  Pure as a babe that's just been born,
  Clean as a poodle lately-shorn,
    These are symbolic samples;
  The Wolf unversed in specious vice,
  The Serpent with a taste as nice
  As anything in Paradise--
    Debauched by bad examples.

  England seduced us. 'Neath her spell,
  Mistress of lies, we fell and fell
  Into the poisoned sink, or well,
    Of faked and fabulous rumour;
  And there, as we were bound to do,
  We failed, because we loved the True,
  And loathed the False as alien to
    Our artless German humour.

  I speak as one who ought to know;
  Myself I tried a trick or so
  In U.S.A. and had to go,
    Looking absurdly silly;
  And now against us, big with fate,
  That Hemisphere has thrown its weight,
  Both North and South (though up to date
    We haven't heard from Chili).

  Laughter we've earned--a noble shame!
  Built to achieve a higher aim,
  We honest Huns can't play the game
    Of shifty propaganders;
  Henceforth we'd better all get back
  On to the straight and righteous track
  And help our HINDENBURG to hack
    (If not too late) through Flanders.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Red heels were much in evidence, both Lady D---- and Lady C----
    affected them, and they were to be seen in other unexpected
    places."--Observer.

Certainly their use as ornaments in the small of the back surprised us a good deal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CARP AT MIRAMEL.

    [In the following article all actual names, personal, geographical
    and regimental, have been duly camouflaged.]

The carp that live in the moat of the Château de Miramel (in the zone of the armies in France)
are of an age and ugliness incredible and of a superlative cynicism. One of them--local tradition
pointed to a one-eyed old reprobate with a yellow face--is the richer these hundred years past
by an English peeress's diamond ring.

From the bottom of the moat one world-war is like another, and none of them very different
from peace. It is but a row of grinning red healthy faces over the coping and a shower of bread
and biscuit.

When the nightmare of BONAPARTE was ended in the Autumn of 1815, the 22nd K.R. Lancers, commanded
by an English peer, billeted themselves in and around the Château de Miramel. The English peer,
finding time hang heavy on his hands, or my lady's letters proving insistent, sent for her
to come out to him at Miramel. You could do that sort of homely thing in 1815.

So my lady comes to Miramel, and the very first day, as she leans out of window in the round
tower, mishandles her diamond ring (gift of my lord) and drops it into the moat. Her host,
the good Comte de Miramel, dredged and drained, but no trace of the diamond ring was ever found.
But old Cyclops, the carp, grinned horribly.

In due course my lord and lady went home to the Isle of Fogs, and thence they sent their portraits
to their host as a souvenir of their stay. Here indeed the portraits still hang, very graceful
in the style of the period. And to the appreciative visitor Madame de Miramel (of to-day) shows
a missive of thanks, written in indifferent bad French, in which my lady refers sorrowfully
to "ma bague diamantée."

       *       *       *       *       *

Once again the 22nd K.R. Lancers are billeted in Miramel. The other day I noticed on a worn
stone pillar at the great door the following half-obliterated words:--

    "ED. WYNN, pikeman of the dashing 22nd King's Ryol ridgemet of
    lanciers. Sept. 1815";

and freshly scratched above the inscription:--

  "Better at piking than at speling.
      22nd K.R. Lancers. JAS. BARNET. Sept. 1917."

The old carp seems to be right, and one war is very like another. There is no radical change
in the orthography of the 22nd King's Royal Lancers, and some-one else's wall is still the
medium for self-expression.

Old Cyclops must be throwing his mind back a hundred years or so. There is a rain of bread
and biscuits into the moat and a ring of red grinning faces above the coping. Yesterday I threw
a disused safety-razor blade over the old scoundrel's nose. And "Bless my soul!" he said, as
he lazily bolted it, "there hasn't been such a year for minnows since 1815."

But Armageddon 1917 holds surprises even for those who live at the bottom of a moat. For very
early this morning a bauble fell into the moat that Cyclops himself couldn't digest. The old
cynic was found floating, scarred belly upwards, on the surface of the water.

The mess-waiter took charge of the post-mortem. Like the Duke of Plaza Toro, he "likes an interment"
and rarely misses a last rite. A keen fisherman, he had little difficulty in extracting an
exhibit for the Court's inspection, which he unhesitatingly pronounced to be a diamond ring
in an advanced state of decomposition.

The mess-cook, on the other hand, identified the relic as the stopping, recently mislaid, from
one of his back teeth.

In any case there seems little room for doubt that a Hun airman has avenged the long-dead lady.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

All the world has marvelled at "the irrepressible good humour" of old Atkins. Every distinguished
tripper who comes Cook's-touring to the Front for a couple of days devotes at least a chapter
of his resultant book to it. "How in thunder does Thomas do it?" they ask. "What the mischief
does he find to laugh at?" Listen.

Years ago, when the well-known War was young, a great man sat in his sanctum exercising his
grey matter. Ho said to himself, "There is a War on. Men, amounting to several, will be prised
loose from comfortable surroundings and condemned to get on with it for the term of their unnatural
lives. They will be shelled, gassed, mined and bombed, smothered in mud, worked to the bone,
bored stiff and scared silly. Fatigues will be unending, rations short, rum diluted, reliefs
late and leave nil. Their girls will forsake them for diamond-studded munitioneers. Their wives
will write saying, 'Little Jimmie has the mumps; and what about the rent? You aren't spending
all of five bob a week on yourself, are you?' This is but a tithe (or else a tittle) of the
things that will occur to them, and their sunny natures will sour and sicken if something isn't
done about it."

The great man sat up all night chewing penholders and pondering on the problem. The BIG IDEA
came with the end of the eighth penholder.

He sprang to his feet, fires of inspiration flashing from his eyes, and boomed, "Let there
be Funny Cuts!"--then went to bed. Next morning he created "I." (which stands for Intelligence),
carefully selected his Staff, arrayed them in tabs of appropriate hue, and told them to go
the limit. And they have been going it faithfully ever since. What the Marines are to the Senior
Service, "I." is to us. Should a Subaltern come in with the yarn that the spook of HINDENBURG
accosted him at Bloody Corner and offered him a cigar, or a balloon cherub buttonhole you with
the story of a Bosch tank fitted with rubber tyres, C-springs and hot and cold water, that
he has seen climbing trees behind St. Quentin, we retort, "Oh, go and tell it to 'I.'" and
then sit back and see what the inspired official organ of the green tabs will make of it. A
hint is as good as a wink to them, a nudge ample. Under the genius of these imaginative artists
the most trivial incident burgeons forth into a LE QUEUX spell-binder, and the whole British
Army, mustering about its Sergeant-Majors, gets selected cameos read to it every morning at
roll-call, laughs brokenly into the jaws of dawn and continues chuckling to itself all day.
Now you know.

Our Adjutant had a telephone call not long ago. "Army speaking," said a voice. "Will you send
somebody over to Rataplan and see if there is a Town Major there?"

The Adjutant said he would, and a N.C.O. was despatched forthwith. He returned later, reporting
no symptoms of one, so the Adjutant rang up Exchange and asked to be hooked on to Army Headquarters.
"Which branch?" Exchange inquired. "Why, really I don't know--forgot to ask," the Adjutant
confessed. "I'll have a try at 'A.'"

"Hello," said "A." "There is no Town Major at Rataplan," said the Adjutant. "You astound me,
Fair Unknown," said "A."; "but what about it, anyway?" The Adjutant apologised and asked Exchange
for "Q." department. "Hello," said "Q." "There is no Town Major at Rataplan," said the Adjutant.
"Sorry, old thing, whoever you are," said "Q.," "but we don't stock 'em. Rations, iron; perspirators,
box; oil, whale, delivered with promptitude and civility, but NOT Town Majors--sorry." The
Adjutant sighed and consulted with Exchange as to who possibly could have rung him up.

Exchange couldn't guess unless it was "I."--no harm in trying, anyhow.

"Hello!" said "I." "There is no Town Major at Rataplan," the Adjutant, droned somewhat wearily.
"Wha-t!" "I." exclaimed, suddenly interested. "Say it again, clearer." "RAT-A-PLAN--NO--TOWN--MA-JOR,"
the Adjutant repeated. There was a pause; then he heard the somebody give off an awed "Good
Lord!" and drop the receiver. Next morning in Funny Cuts (the organ of Intelligence) we learned
that "Corps Headquarters was heavily shelled last night. The Town Major is missing. This is
evidence that the enemy has brought long-range guns into the opposite sector." Followed masses
of information as to the probable make of the guns, the size of shell they preferred, the life-story
of the Battery Commander, his favourite flower and author.

The Bosch, always on the alert to snaffle the paying devices of an opposition firm, now has
his "I." staff and Funny Cuts as well. From time to time we capture a copy and read this sort
of thing:--

"From agonised screeches heard by one of our intrepid airmen while patrolling over the enemy's
lines yesterday, it is evident that the brutal and relentless British are bayonetting their
prisoners."

