Of her mother she had but few and faint recollections. Memory pictured her pale and drooping,
nay gradually sinking under the cureless malady which brought her to her grave at last. She
remembered, however, the soft and beautiful smiles which had beamed over that haggard countenance,
when it was turned upon her only child--smiles which she delighted to recognise in the lovely
portrait, from which her idea of her mother was chiefly formed. This portrait adorned her own
favourite apartment. It had been painted when the original was as young and happy as herself;
and her filial love and fond imagination believed no grace had been wanting to make all as
beautiful and glorious within.

As the Lady Anne grew up to womanhood, the sweetness of her disposition and manners began to
be acknowledged by those, who had seen without astonishment her extraordinary beauty; and many
persons of distinction, who would hold no kind of fellowship with the Lord Somerset, sought
the acquaintance of his innocent daughter for her own sake.

The most beloved friend of the Lady Anne was the Lady Ellinor G----, the eldest daughter of
the Earl of G----: and with her, Lady Anne often passed several months in the year. A large
party of young ladies were assembled at G---- Castle; and it happened that a continual rain
had confined the fair companions within doors the whole summer afternoon. They sat together
over their embroidery and various kinds of needlework, telling old tales of fearful interest--the
strange mishaps of benighted travellers--stories of witchcraft, and of mysterious murder.

The conversation turned at last to the legends belonging to a certain family; and one circumstance
was mentioned so nearly resembling, in many particulars, the murder of Sir Thomas Overbury,
that the Lady Ellinor, scarcely doubting that some slight suspicion of her parents' crimes
had reached the ears of the Lady Anne, determined to change the subject at once. She proposed
to her fair friends that they should ramble together through the apartments of the castle;
and she called for the old housekeeper, who had lived in the family from her childhood, to
go along with them, and asked her to describe to them the person and manners of Queen Elizabeth,
when she had visited at the castle, and slept in the state apartment; always since called,
The Queen's Bedchamber.

Led by their talkative guide, the careless, laughing party wandered from one chamber to another,
listening to her anecdotes, and the descriptions she gave of persons and things in former days.
She had known many of the originals of the stately portraits in the picture gallery; and she
could tell the names, and the exploits of those warriors in the family, whose coats of mail
and glittering weapons adorned the armoury. "And now," said the Lady Ellinor, "what else is
there to be seen? Not that I mean to trouble you any longer with our questions, good Margaret,
but give me this key, this key so seldom used," pointing to a large, strangely shaped key,
that hung among a bunch at the old housekeeper's side. "There!" she added, disengaging it herself
from the ring, "I have taken it, and will return it very safely. I assure you. This key," she
said, turning to her young companions, "unlocks a gallery at the end of the eastern wing, which
is always locked up, because the room is full of curious and rare treasures, that were brought
by my father's brother from many foreign lands."

They enter.--"This may be a charming place," said one of the youngest and liveliest of the
party, "but see, the rain has passed away, and the sun has at last burst out from the clouds.
How brightly he shines, even through these dull and dusty windows!" She gave but a passing
glance to the treasures around her, and hastened to a half open door at the end of the gallery.
Some of her companions followed her to a broad landing place, at the top of a flight of marble
stairs. They were absent but a few minutes, and they returned with smiles of delight, and glad,
eager voices, declaring that they had unbolted a door at the bottom of the staircase, and found
themselves in the most beautiful part of the gardens. "Come!" said the young and sprightly
girl, "do not loiter here; leave these rare and beautiful things until it rains again, and
come forth at once with me into the sweet, fresh air."

The Lady Ellinor and her friend the Lady Anne were sitting side by side, at the same table,
and looking over the same volume--a folio of Norman chronicles, embellished with many quaint
and coloured pictures. They both lifted up their faces from the book, as their merry companions
again addressed them. "Nay, do not look up, but rise up!" said the laughing maiden, and drawing
away the volume from before them, she shut it up instantly, and laid it on another table; throwing
down a branch of jessamine in its place.

"Yes, yes, you are right, my merry Barbara," replied the Lady Ellinor, and she rose up as she
spoke, "we have been prisoners all the day against our will, why should we now be confined
when the smile of Nature bids us forth to share her joy. Come, come! my sweet Anne, you are
not wont to be the last," turning to her friend, who lingered behind. "Oh!" cried Lady Anne,
"I am coming, I will soon be the first amongst you, I only wait a moment to bind up my troublesome
hair." As she spoke, her eyes rested upon a little volume, which lay upon the broad sill of
the casement. The wind fluttered in the pages, and blew them over and over; and half curiously,
half carelessly, she looked again, and yet again. The word murder caught her eye; her feelings
were still in a state of excitement from the tales and legends to which she had just been listening.
Resting her head upon her hand, she leaned over the volume; and stood motionless, absorbed
by the interest of the tale which she read, forgetful of her young companions--of all but the
appalling story then before her.

But these feelings were soon lost in astonishment, and horror so confounding, that for awhile
she lost all power of moving, or even of thinking. Still her eyes were fixed upon the words
which had pierced her heart:--she could not force them away. Again and again, struck with shame
and horror, she shrunk away;--again and again, she found herself forced by doubt, by positive
disbelief, to search the terrible pages. At last she had read enough--quite, quite enough to
be assured, not that her father--her mother, had been suspected, but that by the law of the
land they had been convicted, and condemned to death as foul, adulterous murderers;--the murderers
of Sir Thomas Overbury!

The Lady Ellinor returned alone into the gallery, "You little truant!" she cried, "why so long?
you said you would soon be with the foremost. I thought you must have escaped me, and have
sought you through half the garden, and you are here all the while!"

No voice replied: not a sound was heard; and the Lady Ellinor had already returned to the door
of the gallery to seek her friend elsewhere, when something fell heavily to the ground.

She flew back; and in one of the receding windows, she found the Lady Anne lying senseless
in a deep swoon. Throwing herself on the ground beside her, she raised her tenderly in her
arms, and not without some difficulty, restored her to herself. Then laying her head upon her
bosom, she whispered kind words. "You are ill, I fear, my own Anne, who has been here? What
have you seen? How so changed in this short time? I left you well and smiling, and now--nay,
my dear, dear friend, do not turn from me, and look so utterly wretched. Do not you see me!
What can be the matter!" The Lady Anne looked up in her friend's face with so piteous and desolate
a look, that she began to fear her reason was affected.

"Have I lost your confidence? Am I no longer loved?" said the Lady Ellinor. "Can you sit heart-broken
there, and will not allow me to comfort you? Still no answer! Shall I go? Shall I leave you,
my love? Do you wish me absent?" continued she in a trembling voice, the tears flowing over
her face, as she rose up. Her motion to depart aroused the Lady Anne. "Ellinor! my Ellinor!"
she cried, and throwing herself forward, she stretched forth her arms. In another moment she
was weeping on the bosom of her friend. She wept for a long time without restraint, for the
Lady Ellinor said nothing, but drew her nearer and nearer to her bosom, and tenderly pressed
the hand that was clasped in hers.

"I ought not to be weeping here," at length she said, "I ought to let you leave me, but I have
not the courage, I cannot bear to lose your friendship,--your affection, my Ellinor! Can you
love me? Have you loved me, knowing all the while, as every one must? To-day--this very hour,
since you left me, I learned:--no I cannot tell you! Look on that page, Ellinor, you will see
why you find me thus. I am the most wretched, wretched creature!"--here again she burst into
an agony of uncontrollable grief.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who can describe the feelings of the Lady Anne--alone, in her chamber, looking up at the portrait
of her mother, upon which she had so often gazed with delight and reverence! "Is it possible?"
said she to herself, "can this be she, of whom I have read such dreadful things? Have all my
young and happy days been but a dream, from which I wake at last? Is not this dreadful certainty
still as a hideous dream to me?"

She had another cause of bitter grief. She loved the young and noble-minded Lord Russell, the
Earl of Bedford's eldest son; and she had heard him vow affection and faithfulness to her.
She now perceived at once the reasons why the Earl of Bedford had objected to their marriage:
she almost wondered within herself that the Lord Russel should have chosen her; and though
she loved him more for avowing his attachment, though her heart pleaded warmly for him, she
determined to renounce his plighted love. "It must be done," she said, "and better now;--delay
will but bring weakness. Now I can write--I feel that I have strength." And the Lady Anne wrote,
and folded with a trembling hand the letter which should give up her life's happiness; and
fearing her resolution might not hold, she despatched it by a messenger, as the Lord Russel
was then in the neighbourhood; and returned mournfully to her own chamber. She opened an old
volume which lay upon her toilette--a volume to which she turned in time of trouble, to seek
that peace which the world cannot give.

Lady Ellinor soon aroused her by the tidings that a messenger had arrived with a letter from
her father, and she descended in search of him.

"Oh, why is this? why am I here?" exclaimed the Lady Anne, as trembling and almost sinking
to the ground--her face alternately pale and covered with crimson blushes, she found herself
alone with the Lord Russell. "You have received my letter, might not this trial have been spared?
my cup was already sufficiently bitter--but I had drunk it. No!" she continued gently withdrawing
her hand which he had taken, "Do not make me despise myself--the voice of duty separates us.
Farewell! I seek a messenger from my father." "I am the messenger you seek," replied he, "I
have seen the Lord Somerset, and bring this letter to his daughter."

The letter from the Earl of Somerset informed his daughter that he had seen the Earl of Bedford,
and had obviated all obstacle to her union with the Lord Russell; that he was going himself
to travel in foreign parts; and that he wished her to be married during a visit to the Earl
and Countess of Bedford, whose invitation he had accepted for her.

"Does not your father say, that in this marriage his happiness is at stake?" said the Lord
Russell, gently pressing her hand. The Lady Anne hung down her head, and wept in silence. "Are
you still silent, my dearest?" continued he, "then will I summon another advocate to plead for me."

He quitted the apartment for a moment, but soon returned with the Countess of Bedford, who
had accompanied him to claim her future daughter-in-law. The Lady Anne had made many resolutions,
but they yielded before the sweet and eloquent entreaties that urged her to do what, in fact,
she was all too willing to consent to.

They were married, the Lord Russell and the Lady Anne Carr; and they lived long and happily
together. It was always thought that the Lord Russell had loved not only well, but wisely;
for the Lady Anne was ever a faithful wife, and a loving, tender mother. It was not until some
years after her marriage, that the Lady Russell discovered how the consent of the earl of Bedford
had been obtained. Till then, she knew not that this consent had been withheld, until the Earl
of Somerset should give his daughter a large sum as her marriage portion:--the Earl of Bedford
calculating upon the difficulty, nay almost impossibility, of his ever raising this sum.

But he had not calculated upon the devotion of the wretched father's love to his fair and innocent
child: and he was astounded when his terms were complied with, and the money paid at once into
his hands. He could no longer withhold his consent; nor could he refuse some admiration of
this proof of a father's love for his child. The Lord Somerset had, in fact, sold his whole
possessions, and reduced himself to an estate not far removed from beggary, to give his daughter
the husband of her choice.

It was the Lady Anne Carr, of whom Vandyke painted an exquisite and well-known portrait, when
Countess of Bedford. She was the mother of William Lord Russell; and died heart-broken in her
old age, when she heard of the execution of her noble and first-born son.

This is, perhaps, one of Mr. Tayler's most successful pieces; it has more breadth (if we may
use such a term) than he is wont to employ, the absence of which from his writing, we have
more than once had occasion to regret.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIME'S TELESCOPE.

Our old friend Time has this year illustrated his march, or object-glass, with a host of images
or spectra--that is, woodcuts of head and tail pieces--to suit all tastes--from the mouldering
cloister of other days to the last balloon ascent. The Notices of Saints' Days and Holidays,
Chronology and Biography, Astronomical and Naturalist's Notices, are edited with more than
usual industry; and the poetry, original and selected, is for the most part very pleasing.

As we have a running account with Time's Telescope, (who has not?) and occasionally illustrate
our pages with extracts during the year, we content ourselves for the present with a quotation
from an original article, by "a correspondent from Alveston," possessing much good feeling
and a tone of reflection, to us very pleasing:--

THE INFLUENCE OF A FLOWER.

Towards the close of a most lovely spring day--and such a lovely one, to my fancy, has never
beamed from the heavens since--I carelessly plucked a cowslip from a copse side, and gave it
to Constance. 'Twas on that beautiful evening when she told me all her heart! as, seated on
a mossy bank, she dissected, with downcast eyes, every part of the flower; chives, pointal,
and petal, all were displayed; though I am sure she never even thought of the class. My destiny
through life I considered as fixed from that hour.--Shortly afterwards I was called, by the
death of a relative, to a distant part of England; upon my return, Constance was no more. The
army was not my original destination; but my mind began to be enfeebled by hourly musing upon
one subject alone, without cessation or available termination; yet reason enough remained to
convince me, that, without change and excitement, it would degenerate into fatuity.

The preparation and voyage to India, new companions, and ever-changing scenes, hushed my feelings,
and produced a calm that might be called a state of blessedness--a condition in which the ignoble
and inferior ingredients of our nature were subdued by the divinity of mind. Years rolled on
in almost constant service; nor do I remember many of the events of that time, even with interest
or regret. In one advance of the army to which I was attached, we had some skirmishing with
the irregulars of our foe; the pursuit was rapid, and I fell behind my detachment, wounded
and weary, in ascending a ghaut, resting in the jungle, with languid eyes fixed on the ground,
without any particular feeling but that of fatigue, and the smarting of my shoulder. A cowslip
caught my sight! my blood rushed to my heart--and, shuddering, I started on my feet, felt no
fatigue, knew of no wound, and joined my party. I had not seen this flower for ten years! but
it probably saved my life--an European officer, wounded and alone, might have tempted the avarice
of some of the numerous and savage followers of an Indian army. In the cooler and calmer hours
of reflection since, I have often thought that this appearance was a mere phantom, an illusion--the
offspring of weakness: I saw it but for a moment, and too imperfectly to be assured of reality;
and whatever I believed at the time seems now to have been a painting on the mind rather than
an object of vision; but how that image started up. I conjecture not--the effect was immediate
and preservative. This flower was again seen in Spain: I had the command of an advance party,
and in one of the recesses of the Pyrenees, of the romantic, beautiful Pyrenees, upon a secluded
bank, surrounded by a shrubbery so lovely as to be noticed by many--was a cowslip. It was now
nearly twenty years since I had seen it in Mysore: I did not start; but a cold and melancholy
chill came over me; yet I might possibly have gazed long on this humble little flower, and
recalled many dormant thoughts, had not a sense of duty (for we momentarily expected an attack)
summoned my attentions to the realities of life: so, drawing the back of my hand across my
eyes, I cheered my party with, "Forward, lads," and pursued my route, and saw it no more, until
England and all her flowery meadows met my view; but many days and service had wasted life,
and worn the fine edge of sensibility away; they were now before me in endless profusion, almost
unheeded, and without excitement; I viewed not the cowslip, when fifty, as I had done with
the eyes of nineteen.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHRISTMAS BOX.

This is the happiest title in the whole list of annuals. There is nothing sentimental or lachrymose
in it; but it is warm and seasonable, and done up in a holly-green binding, it is all over
old Christmas.

The first story in the volume is Old Christmas; one of the gems or sweets is Garry Owen, or
the Snow-Woman, by Miss Edgeworth, for it abounds with good sentiment, just such as we should
wish in the hearts and mouths of our own children, as a spice for their prattle.

We pass over L'Egotiste Corrigée, par Madame de Labourt--pretty enough--and the Ambitious Primrose,
by Miss Dagley. Then a Song, by Miss Mitford; and a Story of Old Times, by Mrs. Hofland; and
the Tragical History of Major Brown, a capital piece of fun; and Pretty Bobby, one of Miss
Mitford's delightful sketches. The Visit to the Zoological Gardens is not just what we expected;
still it is attractive. Major Beamish has accommodated military tactics to the nursery in a
pleasant little sketch; and the proverb of Much Coin Much Care, by Mrs. R.S. Jameson is a little
farce for the same stage.

But the Cuts--the pictures--of which it would have been more juvenile to have spoken first.
These are from the pencil of our "right trustye" friend and excellent artist, Mr. W.H. Brooke,
whose horses, coaches, and dogs excite so much mirth among the young friends of the MIRROR--for,
in truth, Mr. Brooke is an A.M.--an associate of the MIRROR, and enables us to jump from Whitehall
to Constantine's Arch at Rome, shake hands with the Bears of the Zoological Society, and Peg
in the Ring at Abury.

The Christmas Box cuts are all fun and frolic--the tail-piece of the preface, a bricklayer
on a ladder, "spilling" a hod of bricks--the Lord of Misrule, with his polichinel army--the
Boar's Head--a little squat Cook and a steaming Plum-Pudding--the Bee and Honeysuckle--Major
Brown with a Munchausen face--the Bear Pit, Monkeys' Houses, and Horned Owl, in the Zoological
Gardens--and the Parliament of Animals, with the Elephant as Chancellor, the Tortoise for "the
table," and Monkeys for Counsel--the groups of Toy Soldiers--and the head pieces of the Cobbler
and his Wife--all excellent. Then the Cricket and Friar, and a pair of Dancing Crickets--worth
all the fairy figures of the Smirkes, and a hundred others into the bargain. These are the
little quips of the pencil that curl up our eye-lashes and dimple our faces more than all the
Vatican gallery. They are trifles--aye, "trifles light as air"--but their influence convinces
us that trifling is part of the great business of life.

Now we are trifling our readers' time; so to recommend the Christmas Box for 1829, as one of
the prettiest presents, and as much better suited to children than was its predecessor--and--pass
we off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here our motley-minded sheet finishes, and we leave our readers in possession of its sweet
fancies. Its little compartments of poetry and prose remind us of mosaic work, and its sentimentalities
have all the varieties of the kaleidoscope. To gladden the eye, study the taste, and improve
the heart, of each reader has been our aim--feelings which we hope pervade this and every other
Number of the MIRROR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Number 340 of the MIRROR contains the Notices of the Literary Souvenir, Forget-Me-Not, Gem,
and Amulet, and with the present Number forms the Spirit of the Annuals for 1829.