Becket (Vol. ii., pp. 106. 270. 364.).--It so happens that, before seeing, MR. VENABLES' communication,
with his quotations from the Monasticon (Vol. ii., p. 364), I had taken an opportunity of looking
into a friend's copy of that work, and had there found what seems to be a key to the origin
of the designation "St. Thomas of Acon or Acres." It is stated, in a quotation from Bp. Tanner,
that

    "The hospital [in Cheapside] consisted of a master and several
    brethren, professing the rule of St. Austin, but were of a particular
    order, which was about this time instituted in the Holy Land, viz.
    Militiæ Hospitales S. Thomæ Martyris Cantuariensis de Acon, being a
    branch of the Templars."--Monast. vi. 646.

and the same title occurs in the charter of Edward III. (ibid.) Now it appears to me that the
words de Acon here relate, not to the saint, but to the order which took its name from him;
and this view is confirmed by the passage which Mr. VENABLES quotes from Matthew of Westminster,
as to the foundation of a chapel in honour of St. Thomas, at Acre, in Syria, A. D. 1190. It
is easy to suppose that in course of time, especially when the origin of the designation had
been cast into the shade by the cessation of the Crusades, and the ruin of the great order
to which the brethren of St. Thomas were at first attached, the patron himself may have come
to be styled de Acon or of Acres: and this seems to be the case in the Act of 23 Hen. VI. (Monast.
vi. 247.)

Allow me to ask a question as to another point in the history of Becket. Among his preferments
is said to have been the parish of "St. Mary Littory or ad Litters," which is commonly supposed
to mean St. Mary-le-Strand.[3] My friend Mr. Foss, in his elaborate work on The Judges of England,
contradicts this, on the ground that there was then no parish of that name; and he supposes
St. Mary-at-Hill to be intended. Now the words ad Litters would be alike applicable as a description
in either case but it appears to me that, if the city church were meant, it would be styled,
as it usually is, ad Montem, and that ad Litters is Latin for le Strand. Was there not then
an ancient church so called, until the demolitions of Protector Somerset in that quarter? And
is not the common belief as to Becket's parish correct? I ask in great ignorance, but not without
having vainly searched some books from which information might have been expected.

J. C. R.

[Footnote 3: We have in the name of this church an answer to A. E. B.'s Query, Vol. ii., p.
396., as to whether the Strand was ever known as Le Strand,--the Church of St. Mary-le-Strand.--ED.]

Aërostation (Vol. ii., pp. 199. 317. 380.).--I happen to remember a few old verses of a squib
on Lunardi, which may be enough seasoned with the dust of oblivion to interest some of your
readers.

 "Good folks, can you believe your eyes?
    Vincenzo di Lunardi
  Has made a voyage to the skies,
    That foreigner foolhardy!

 "He went up in a round baloon
    (For moon is luna, Latin),
  To pay a visit to the moon;
    A basket-boat he sat in.

 "And side by side the moon, he cried
   'How do, fair cousin moon? eh!'
  Through telescopes they were espied,
    Baloon--Lunardi--Luna.

      *    *    *    *    *

 "When weary on the wing, to perch
    Once more, and air abandon,
  Quite apropos he swooped in search
    Of solid earth to 'Stand-on.'[4]

      *    *    *    *    *

 "Now after all remains to tell
    How learned Mr. Baker,
  Set up a moonstone where he fell,
    And called the field 'wise-acre.'

Perhaps some of your correspondents could supply the remaining stanzas. I fancy there were
several more. As far as I can remember, they chiefly related to M. Lunardi's conversation with
the moon, which, involving some political allusions, did not so much hit my youthful imagination
at the time. When a boy, I have frequently heard my father repeat the lines.

C. J. F.

[Footnote 4: Standon, Herts, where he alighted.]

Aërostation, Works on (Vol. ii., pp. 317. 380.).--If your correspondent who inquires respecting
works on aërostation will look into the Revue des Deux Mondes for October 15, he will find
an article on that subject, detailing the various attempts made from the time of Montgolfier
down to a very recent period.

A still later communication has been made to the world in the French newspaper, La Presse,
of yesterday's date (Nov. 7th), relating, in terms of exultation, a successful experiment made
in Paris by Messrs. Julien and Arnault to steer a machine against the wind, in which hitherto
impracticable attempt they are said to have completely succeeded at repeated times, and the
mechanical {470} means by which they attained their object are detailed.

J.M.

Oxford, Nov. 8.

Kilt (Vol. ii., p. 62.).--Your correspondent [Sigma]. will find some information regarding
the introduction of the kilt into Scotland in a volume entitled Notes to assist the Memory
in various Sciences, 2d edition, London, Murray, 1827. I quote the passage, p. 297.:

    "The Pheliebeg. Thomas Rawlinson, an iron-smelter and an Englishman,
    was the person who, about or prior to A. D. 1728, introduced the
    pheliebeg, or short kilt, worn in the Highlands. This fact, very little
    known, is established in a letter from Ewan Baillie, of Oberiachan,
    inserted in the Edinburgh Magazine for 1785, and also by the Culloden
    Papers."

The writer of that work, and of that daring statement, was, I have been informed, a Scottish
military gentleman of the name of Hamilton. This origin of the kilt is also mentioned by Mr.
Robert Chambers in his Life of Duncan Forbes, of Culloden. See his Biographical Dictionary
of Eminent Scotsmen.

SCOTUS SECUNDUS.

Edinburgh, Nov. 22.

Bacon Family (Vol. ii., p. 247.).--The origin, of this surname is to be found, I conceive,
in the word Beacon. The man who had the care of the Beacon would be called John or Roger of
the Beacon. Beacon Hill, near Newark, is pronounced in that locality as if spelt Bacon Hill.

W. G. S.

Mariner's Compass (Vol. ii., p. 56.).--The "fleur de lis" was made the ornament of the northern
radius of the mariner's compass in compliment to Charles of Anjou (whose device it was), the
reigning king of Sicily, at the time when Flavio Gioja, the Neapolitan, first employed that
instrument in navigation.

O. P. Q.

Arabic Numerals, Brugsch (Vol. ii., pp. 294. 424.).--Brugsch, Numerorum apud Veteres Ægyptos
demoticorum Doctrina. Ex Papyris et Inscriptionibus nunc primum illustrata. 4to., with five
plates of facsimiles, &c., is published in this country by Williams and Norgate, Henrietta
Street, Covent Garden, where J. W. H. may see it, or whence he may get any information he may
require respecting it.

W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Mr. Bohn has just issued a new volume of his Antiquarian Library; and we shall be greatly surprised
if it does not prove one of the most popular of the whole series. It is a new and greatly enlarged
edition of Mr. Keightley's Fairy Mythology illustrative of the Romance and Superstition of
various Countries, a work characterised alike by a quick perception of the beauty of the popular
myths recorded in its pages, the good taste manifested in their selection, and the learning
and scholarship with which Mr. Keightley has illustrated them. The lovers of folk-lore will
be delighted with this new edition of a book, which such men as Goethe, Grimm, Von Hammer,
Douce, and Southey have agreed in commending; and of which the appearance is particularly well
timed, for a fitter book for fire-side reading, or a Christmas present, we know not than this
edition of Keightley's Fairy Mythology, with its inimitable frontispiece by George Cruikshank,
which alone is worth the price of the volume.

Whitaker's Clergyman's Diary and Ecclesiastical Calendar is intended to supply a want which
is acknowledged to have been long felt by the clergy, though the lawyer and man of business
have been for many years well supplied with works of a similar character. A glance at the Table
of Contents shows how much valuable matter, of especial interest to our clerical friends, has
here been collected from various sources for their information; and to prove the value of a
work destined, we have no doubt, to find for many years an extensive and well-deserved patronage.

Few of our readers but have tested and found the value of Mrs. Cowden Clarke's Concordance
to Shakspeare; and few are the nurseries into which some of her clever and kindly books for
children have not found their way; so that albeit her projected series of tales, The Girlhood
of Shakspeare's Heroines, scarcely belongs to the class of works usually noticed in our columns,
we gladly find in Mrs. Clarke's love of children and reverence for Shakspeare, an excuse for
saying a few words in favour of her good work of tracing the probable antecedents in the history
of some of Shakspeare's heroines.

We have received the following Catalogues:--Edward Stibbs' (331. Strand) Catalogue, Part I,
of a Valuable Collection of Books; W. S. Lincoln's (Cheltenham House, Westminster Road) Catalogue
No. 63. of English and Foreign Second-hand Books.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

DUCANGE'S GLOSSARY, (Didot's edition).

Odd Volumes.

CHALMER'S BRITISH POETS, Vols.

NORVICENSIS is informed that upon reference to Stewart's (11. King William Street) Catalogue,
we find No. 1304. Dodd's Commentary, 3 vols. folio, 1770, marked at 2l. 16s. The work is esteemed
for the notes of Locke, Waterland, and Clarendon, which it contains.

We have again to request the indulgence of many of our correspondents for the postponement
of their communications. {471}

We have to thank several correspondents for correcting an oversight in Dr. Bell's article on
Julin. The line

 "Story, Lord bless you, I have none to tell, Sir,"

is from Canning's Knife Grinder, and not from the Ancient Mariner.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON LIBRARY, 12. ST. JAMES'S SQUARE. PATRON--His Royal Highness PRINCE ALBERT.

This institution now offers to its Members a collection of 60,000 Volumes, to which additions
are constantly making, both in English and Foreign Literature. Price of the large Catalogue
already published, 5s. A second volume is now in preparation.

A Reading Room is also open for the use of the Members, supplied with the best English and
Foreign Periodicals.

Terms of Admission:--Entrance Fee, 6l.; Annual Subscription, 2l.; or Entrance Fee and Life
Subscription, 26l.

      By order of the Committee,
          J. G. COCHRANE, Secretary and Librarian.
  November, 1850. Coke, an extraordinary Collection of Seals, &c. Catalogues will
be sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CONTROVERSY.--At the present crisis, when the extraordinary aggression of
Pope Pius IX. on the rights of the Church and Sovereign of England renders a thorough acquaintance
with the Roman Catholic Controversy most essential, the Council of the PARKER SOCIETY are desirous
of calling public attention to the WORKS of the REFORMERS which they have issued.

These are the writings of Archbishop Cranmer, two vols.; Bishop Ridley, Latimer, two vols.;
Coverdale, two vols.; Jewel, three vols. completed, the fourth nearly ready; also those of
Tyndale, three vols.; Becon, three vols., &c.

The annual subscription to the Society is 1l., to be paid in advance, for which each member
receives four volumes. In the concluding volume of Bishop Jewel's works will appear, among
other treatises, his "View of a Seditious Bull," being that issued by Pius V. against Queen
Elizabeth. The republication of this will be felt to be most seasonable at the present time,
and the complete answers furnished by the Romanisers to all the Romish doctrines and assumptions
will be found of the greatest interest and use.

The Council are anxious to facilitate as far as possible the desire of the Clergy and others
to possess these important works; and as they have on hand copies of some of the authors named,
they are prepared to dispose of these on reasonable terms. Application may be made to W. Thomas,
Esq., 33. Southampton Street, Strand.

It is particularly requested that the members will pay their subscriptions for 1851 as early
as possible. As the series of publications is is now drawing to a close, this announcement
is important, and the Council will feel greatly obliged by attention to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOW READY, Cloth, One Shilling, THE GREEK CHURCH, a Sketch, by the Author of "Proposals for
Christian Union."--CONTENTS: 1. Patriarchate of Constantinople; 2. Alienation of Eastern and
Western Churches; 3. Athanasius and Arius; 4. Council of Florence; 5. Cyril Lucar.

    "This work is not so much a history of the Greek Church generally, as
    of that one most important feature in her career, the long protracted
    struggle with the Western Church, which terminated in their unhappy
    separation. The Author's investigation into the conflicting causes
    which led to this result is ably carried out, with considerable
    research, and great lucidity of style."--Ecclesiastic.

This Essay concludes the series. The four preceding Numbers on Sale, Second Edition, One Shilling
each.

JAMES DARLING--London: Great Cullen Street; Edinburgh: 12. South St.
Andrew's Street.
              Shakespeare.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROTESTANT & CHURCH OF ENGLAND THEOLOGY. {472}

       *       *       *       *       *

BERNARD QUARITCH,

SECOND-HAND FOREIGN, AND ANTIQUARIAN BOOKSELLER,

16. CASTLE STREET, LEICESTER SQUARE, LONDON,

Begs to inform the Readers of "Notes and Queries," that he has just published a new Catalogue of

ANTIQUARIAN AND HERALDIC WORKS,

Comprising valuable Chronicles, Armorials, Provincial and Family Histories.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW PURCHASES NOT INSERTED IN THIS CATALOGUE.

MERIANI THEATRUM EUROPEUM, oder wahrhaftige Beschreibung aller denkwürd. Geschichten, so sich
hin und wieder in der Welt, fürnehmlich in Europa, &c., von 1617-1718 ereignet, 21 thick vols.
in 22, folio, with several thousand Portraits, Plans of Cities, Representations of Battles,
Events, Monuments, Buildings, &c., engraved by Matt. Merlan, Hollar, &c., vell., 5l. 5s. Frankfurt,
1643-1732.

*** This voluminous history of Europe (each vol. containing upwards of 1000 pages) was compiled
from substantial information received at the time, and, as such, is worthy of the historian's
reference; some of the curious portraits and historical prints fall into the English series.

    Complete sets like the above are very seldom met.

PETITOT, Mémoires sur l'Histoire de France, depuis le règne de Phillippe Auguste jusqu'au commencement
de XVII^e Siècle. Avec des notices sur chaque auteur, et des observations sur chaque ouvrage,
52 vols. 8vo., hf. bd. calf, very neat, 10l. 10s. Paris, 1819-26.

HONNORAT, Dictionnaire Provençal-Français, ou Dictionnaire de la langue d'Oc Ancienne et Moderne,
suivi d'un Vocabulaire Français-Provençal, &c., 4 vols. 4to., sd., 2l. 10s. Paris, 1847-49.

LEGONIDEC, Dictionnaire Breton-Français et Français-Breton, précédé de la Grammaire, nouvelle
édition, augmentée des mots Gallois et Gaëls correspondant au Breton, 2 vols. 4to., sd., uncut,
36s. St. Breas, 1847-50.

