"Whittier is less known than several other Western bards to the English reader, and we think
him entitled to stand higher on the American Parnassus than most of his countrymen would place
him. His faults--harshness and want of polish--are evident; but there is more life, and spirit,
and soul in his verses, than in those of eight-ninths of Mr. Griswold's immortal ninety.

"From political verse (for the anti-slavery agitation must be considered quite as much a political
as a moral warfare) the transition is natural to satire and humorous poetry. Here we find no
lack of matter, but a grievous short-coming in quality. The Americans are no contemptible humorists
in prose, but their fun cannot be set to verse. They are very fond of writing parodies, yet
we have scarcely ever seen a good parody of American origin. And their satire is generally
more distinguished for personality and buffoonery than wit. Halleck's Fanny looks as if it
might be good, did we only know something of the people satirized in it. The reputed comic
poet of the country at present is OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, a physician. Whether it was owing
to the disappointment caused by hearing too much in his praise beforehand we will not pretend
to say, but it certainly did seem to us that Dr. Holmes' efforts in this line must originally
have been intended to act upon his patients emetically. After a conscientious perusal of the
doctor, the most readable, and about the only presentable thing we can find in him, is the
bit of seriocomic entitled The Last Leaf.

"But within the last three years there has arisen in the United States a satirist of genuine
excellence, who, however, besides being but moderately appreciated by his countrymen, seems
himself in a great measure to have mistaken his real forte. JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL, one of the
Boston coterie, has for some time been publishing verses, which are by the coterie duly glorified,
but which are in no respect distinguishable from the ordinary level of American poetry, except
that they combine an extraordinary pretension to originality, with a more than usually palpable
imitation of English models. Indeed, the failure was so manifest, that the American literati
seem, in this one case, to have rebelled against Boston dictation, and there is sufficient
internal evidence that such of them as do duty for critics handled Mr. Lowell pretty severely.
Violently piqued at this, and simultaneously conceiving a disgust for the Mexican war, he was
impelled by both feelings to take the field as a satirist: to the former we owe the Fable for
Critics; to the latter, the Biglow Papers. It was a happy move, for he has the rare faculty
of writing clever doggerel. Take out the best of Ingoldsby, Campbell's rare piece of fun The
Friars of Dijon, and perhaps a little of Walsh's Aristophanes, and there is no contemporary
verse of the class with which Lowell's may not fearlessly stand a comparison; for, observe,
we are not speaking of mock heroics like Bon Gaultier's, which are only a species of parody,
but of real doggerel, the Rabelaisque of poetry. The Fable is somewhat on the Ingoldsby model,--that
is to say, a good part of its fun consists in queer rhymes, double, treble, or poly-syllabic;
and it has even Barham's fault--an occasional over-consciousness of effort, and calling on
the reader to admire, as if the tour de force could not speak for itself. But Ingoldsby's rhymes
will not give us a just idea of the Fable until we superadd Hook's puns; for the fabulist has
a pleasant knack of making puns--outrageous and unhesitating ones--exactly of the kind to set
off the general style of his verse. The sternest critic could hardly help relaxing over such
a bundle of them as are contained in Apollo's lament over the 'treeification' of his Daphne....
The Fable is a sort of review in verse of American poets. Much of the Boston leaven runs through
it; the wise men of the East are all glorified intensely, while Bryant and Halleck are studiously
depreciated. But though thus freely exercising his own critical powers in verse, the author
is most bitter against all critics in prose, and gives us a ludicrous picture of one--

  A terrible fellow to meet in society,
  Not the toast that he buttered was ever so dry at tea.

And this gentleman is finely shown up for his condemnatory predilections and inability to discern
or appreciate beauties. The cream of the joke against him is, that being sent by Apollo to
choose a lily in a flower-garden, he brings back a thistle as all he could find. The picture
is a humorous one, but we are at a loss to conjecture who can have sat for it in America, where
the tendency is all the other way, reviewers being apt to apply the butter of adulation with
the knife of profusion to every man, woman, or child who rushes into print. Some of his complaints,
too, against the critic sound very odd; as, for instance, that

  His lore was engraft, something foreign that grew in him.

Surely the very meaning of learning is that it is something which a man learns--acquires from
other sources--does not originate in himself. But it is a favorite practice with Mr. Lowell's
set to rail against dry learning and pedants, while at the same time there are no men more
fond of showing off cheap learning than themselves: Lowell himself never loses an opportunity
of bringing in a bit of Greek or Latin. Our readers must have known such persons--for, unfortunately,
the United States has no monopoly of them--men who delight in quoting Latin before ladies,
talking Penny-Magazine science in the hearing of clodhoppers, and preaching of high art to
youths who have never had the chance of seeing any art at all. Then you will hear them say
nothing about pedantry. But let a man be present who knows more Greek than they do, or who
has a higher standard of poetry or painting or music, and wo be to him! Him they will persecute
to the uttermost. What is to be done with such men but to treat them à la Shandon, 'Give them
Burton's Anatomy, and leave them to their own abominable devices?'

"The Biglow Papers are imaginary epistles from a New England farmer, and contain some of the
best specimens extant of the 'Yankee,' or New England dialect,--better than Haliburton's, for
Sam Slick sometimes mixes Southern, Western, and even English vulgarities with his Yankee.
Mr. Biglow's remarks treat chiefly of the Mexican war, and subjects immediately connected with
it, such as slavery, truckling of Northerners to the south, &c. The theme is treated in various
ways with uniform bitterness. Now he sketches a 'Pious Editors Creed,' almost too daring in
its Scriptural allusions, but terribly severe upon the venal fraternity. At another time he
sets one of Calhoun's pro-slavery speeches to music. The remarks of the great Nullifier form
the air of the song, and the incidental remarks of honorable senators on the same side make
up a rich chorus, their names supplying happy tags to the rhymes. But best of all are the letters
of his friend the returned volunteer, Mr. Birdofredom Sawin, who draws a sad picture of the
private soldier's life in Mexico. He had gone out with hopes of making his fortune. But he
was sadly disappointed and equally so in his expectations of glory, which 'never got so low
down as the privates.'

"But it is time to bring this notice to a close not, however, that we have by any means exhausted
the subject. For have we not already stated that there are, at the lowest calculation, ninety
American poets, spreading all over the alphabet, from Allston, who is unfortunately dead, to
Willis, who is fortunately living, and writing Court Journals for the 'Upper Ten Thousand,'
as he has named the quasi-aristocracy of New York? And the lady-poets--the poetesses, what
shall we say of them? Truly it would be ungallant to say anything ill of them, and invidious
to single out a few among so many; therefore, it will be best for us to say--nothing at all
about any of them."

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL POETRY.

A RETROSPECT.

BY HERMANN.

  On this rustic footbridge sitting,
    I have passed delightful eyes,
  Moonbeams round about me flitting
    Through the overhanging leaves.

  With me often came another,
    When the west wore hues of gold,
  And 'twas neither sister--brother--
    One the heart may dearer hold.

  She was fair and lightly moulded,
    Azure eyed and full of grace;
  Gentler form was never folded
    In a lover's warm embrace.

  Oh those hours of sacred converse,
    Their communion now is o'er
  And our straying feet shall traverse
    Those remembered paths no more.

  Hours they were of love and gladness,
    Fraught with holy vows of truth:
  Not a single thought of sadness
    Shadowing o'er the hopes of youth.

  I am sitting sad and lonely
    Where she often sat with me,
  And the voice I hear is only
    Of the silvery streamlet's glee.

  Where is she, whose gentle fingers,
    Oft were wreathed amidst my hair?
  Still methinks their pressure lingers,
    But, ah no! they are not there.

  They are whiter now than ever,
    In a light I know not of,
  Sweeping o'er the chords of silver
    To a song of joy and love.

  Though so lonely I am sitting,
    This sweet thought of joy may bring,
  That she still is round me flitting,
    On an angel's tireless wing.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTHOR OF "ION."

"Mr. Talfourd is now a Justice, and we find in the London journals an account of a visit to
his residence by a deputation from his native town, to present to him a silver candelabrum,
subscribed for by a large number of the inhabitants of the borough, of all parties. The base
of the candelabrum is a tripod, on which stands a group of three female figures; representing
Law, Justice, and Poetry, the two former modeled from Flaxman's sculpture on Lord Mansfield's
monument in Westminster Abbey, the latter from a drawing of the Greek Antique, bearing a scroll
inscribed with the word "Ion" in Greek characters. The arms of Mr. Talfourd and of the borough
of Reading are engraved on the base. The testimonial was presented to the Justice in the presence
of his family, including the venerable Mrs. Talfourd, his mother, and a large circle of private
friends. In answer to the gentleman who presented the testimonial, Mr. Talfourd replied:

"If I felt that the circumstances of this hour, and the eloquent kindness which has enriched
it, appealed for a response only to personal qualities, I should be too conscious of the poverty
of such materials for an answer to attempt one; but the associations they suggest expand into
wider circles than self impels, and while they teach me that this occasion is not for the indulgence
of vanity, but for the cultivation of humble thankfulness, they impart a nobler significance
to your splendid gift and to your delightful praise. They remind me that my intellectual being
has, from its first development, been nurtured by the partiality of those whom, living and
dead, you virtually represent to-day; they concentrate the wide-spread instances of that peculiar
felicity in my lot whereby I have been privileged to find aid, comfort, inspiration, and allowance
in that local community amidst which my life began; and they invite me, from that position
which once bounded my furthest horizon of personal hope, to live along the line of past existence;
to recognize the same influence everywhere pervading it: and to perceive how its struggles
have been assisted; its errors softened down or vailed, and its successes enhanced, by the
constant presence of home-born regards. Embracing in a rapid glance the events of many years,
I call to mind how at an early age--earlier than is generally safe or happy for youths--the
incidents of life, supplying an unusual stimulus to ordinary powers, gave vividness to those
dreams of human excellence and progress which, at some time, visit all; how by the weakness
which precluded them from assuming those independent shapes which require the plastic force
of higher powers, they became associated with the scenes among which they were cherished, and
clove to them with earnest grasp; and how the fervid expressions which that combination prompted,
were accepted by generous friends as indicating faculties 'beyond the reaches of my soul,'
and induced them to encourage me by genial prophecies which, with unwearied purpose, they endeavored
to fulfill. I renew that golden season when such vague aspirations were at once cherished and
directed by the Christian wisdom of the venerated master of Reading School--who, during his
fifty years of authority, made the name of our town a household word to successive generations
of scholars, who honored him in all parts of the world, and all departments of society--whose
long life was one embodied charity--and who gave steadiness and object to those impulses in
me which else might have ended, as they began, in dreams. I remember, when pausing on the slippery
threshold of active life, and looking abroad on the desolate future, how the earnestness of
my friends gave me courage, and emboldened me, with no patrons but themselves, to enter the
profession of my choice by its most dim and laborious avenue, and to brace myself for four
years of arduous pupilage; how they crowded with pleasures the intervals of holiday I annually
enjoyed among them during that period, and another of equal length passed in a special pleader's
anxieties and toils; how they greeted with praise, sweeter than the applause of multitudes
to him who wins it, the slender literary effusions by which I supplied the deficiency of professional
income; and how, when I dared the hazard of the bar, they provided for me opportunities such
as riper scholars and other advocates wait long for, by confiding important matters to my untried
hands; how they encircled my first tremulous efforts by an atmosphere of affectionate interest,
roused my faint heart to exertion, absorbed the fever that hung upon its beatings, and strengthened
my first perceptions of capacity to make my thoughts and impressions intelligible, on the instant,
to the minds of courts and juries. The impulse thus given to my professional success at Reading,
and in the sessions of Berkshire during twelve years, gradually extended its influence through
my circuit, until it raised me to a position among its members beyond my deserts and equal
to my wishes. Another opening of fortune soon dawned on me; in the maturity of life I aspired
to a seat in parliament--rather let me say, to that seat which only I coveted--and then, almost
without solicitation, from many surviving patrons of my childhood, and from the sons of others
who inherited the kindness of their fathers, I received an honor more precious to me as the
token of concentrated regards than as the means of advancement; yet greatly heightened in practical
importance by the testimony it implied from the best of all witnesses. That honor, three times
renewed, was attended by passages of excitement which look dizzy even in the distance--with
much on my part requiring allowance, and much allowance rendered by those to whom my utmost
services were due; with the painful consciousness of wide difference of opinion between some
of my oldest friends and myself, and with painful contests which those differences rendered
inevitable, yet cheered by attachments which the vivid lights struck out in the conflict of
contending passions exhibited in scatheless strength, until I received that appointment which
dissolved the parliamentary connection, and with it annihilated all the opposition of feeling
which had sometimes saddened it, and invested the close of my life with the old regard, as
unclouded by controversy as when it illumined its opening. And now the expressions of your
sympathy await me, when, by the gracious providence of God, I have been permitted to enter
on a course of less fervid action, of serener thought, of plainer duty. For me political animosities
are forever hushed and absorbed in one desire, which I share with you all, for the happiness
and honor of our country, and the peaceful advancement of our species; and all the feverish
excitements and perils of advocacy, its ardent partisanship with various interests, anxieties,
and passions, are displaced by the office of seeking to discover truth and to maintain justice.
I am no longer incited to aspire to public favor, even under your auspices: my course is marked
right onward--to be steadily trodden, whether its duties may accord with the prevalent feeling
of the hour, or may oppose the temporary injustice of its generous errors: but it is not forbidden
me to prize the esteem of those who have known me longest and best, and to indulge the hope
that I may retain it to the last. To encourage me in the aim still to deserve that esteem,
I shall look on this gift of those numbers of my townsmen whose regards have just found such
cordial expression. I shall cherish it as a memorial of earliest hopes that gleam out from
the depth of years; as a memorial of a thousand incentives to virtuous endeavor, of sacred
trusts, of delighted solaces; as a memorial of affections which have invested a being, frail,
sensitive, and weak, with strength not its own, and under God, have insured for it an honorable
destiny; as a memorial of this hour, when, in the presence of those who are nearest and dearest
to me on earth, my course has been pictured in the light of those friendships which have gladdened
it--an hour of which the memory and the influence will not pass away, but, I fondly trust,
will incite those who will bear my name after me, and to whose charge this gift will be confided
when I shall cease to behold it, better to deserve, though they cannot more dearly appreciate,
such a succession of kindnesses as that to which the crowning grace is now added, and for which,
with my whole heart, I thank you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cultivate and exercise a serene faith, and you shall acquire wonderful power and insight; its
results are sure and illimitable, moulding and moving to its purposes equally spirit, mind,
and matter. It is the power-endowing essential of all action.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT DEATHS.

Under this head we have rarely to present so many articles as are demanded by the foreign journals
received during the week, and by the melancholy disaster which caused the death of the MARCHESA
D'OSSOLI, with her husband, and Mr. SUMNER. Of MARGARET FULLER D'OSSOLI a sketch is given in
the preceding pages, and we reserve for our next number an article upon the history of Sir
ROBERT PEEL. The death of this illustrious person has caused a profound sensation not only
in Great Britain, but throughout Europe. In the House of Lords, most eloquent and impressive
speeches upon the exalted character of the deceased, and the irreparable loss of the country,
were delivered by the Marquis of Lansdowne, Lord Stanley, Lord Brougham, the Duke of Wellington,
and the Duke of Cleveland, and in the House of Commons, by Lord John Russell, and Messrs. Hume,
Gladstone, Goulburn, Herries, Napier, Inglis and Somervile. The House, in testimony of its
grief, adjourned without business, an act without precedent, except in case of death in the
royal family. A noble tribute of respect was also paid by the French Assembly to the memory
of Sir Robert Peel. The President, M. Dupin, pronounced an affecting eulogy upon the deceased,
which was received with the liveliest sympathy by the Chamber, and was ordered to be recorded
in its journal. A compliment like this is totally unprecedented in France, and the death of
no other foreigner in the world could have elicited it.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOYER, EX-PRESIDENT OF HAYTI.

Jean Pierre Boyer, a mulatto, distinguished in affairs, and for his abilities and justice,
was born at Port-au-Prince, on the 6th of February, 1776. His father, by some said to have
been of mixed blood, was a tailor and shopkeeper, of fair reputation and some property, and
his mother a negress from Congo in Africa, who had been a slave in the neighborhood. He joined
the French Commissioners, Santhonax and Polverel, in whose company, after the arrival of the
English, he withdrew to Jacqemel. Here he attached himself to Rigaud, set out with him to France,
and was captured on his passage by the Americans, during the war between France and the United
States. Being released at the end of the war, he proceeded to Paris, where he remained until
the organization of Le Clerc's expedition against St. Domingo. This expedition he with many
other persons of color joined; but on the death of Le Clerc he attached himself to the party
of Petion, with whom he acted during the remainder of that chieftain's life, which terminated
on the 29th of March, 1818. Under Petion he rose from the post of aid-de-camp and private secretary
to be general of the arrondissement of Port-au-Prince; and Petion named him for the succession
in the Presidency, to which he was inducted without opposition. When the revolution broke out
in the northern part of the island, in 1820, Boyer was invited by the insurgents to place himself
at their head; and on the death of Christophe, the northern and southern parts of the island
were united under his administration into one government, under the style of the Republic of
Hayti. In the following year the Spanish inhabitants of the eastern part of the island voluntarily
placed themselves under the government of Boyer, who thus became, chiefly by the force of character,
without much positive effort, the undisputed master of all St. Domingo.

It is not questionable that the productions and general prosperity of the island decreased
under Boyer's administration. The blacks needed the stringent policy of some such tyrant as
Christophe. And the popularity of Boyer was greatly lessened by his approval or direct negotiation
of a treaty with France, by which he agreed to pay to that country an indemnity of 150,000,000
of francs, in five annual instalments. The French Government recognized the independence of
Hayti, but it was impossible for Boyer to meet his engagements. He however conducted the administration
with industry, discretion, and repose, for fifteen years, when a long-slumbering opposition,
for his presumed preference of the mulatto to the black population in the dispensations of
government favor, began to exhibit itself openly. When this feeling was manifested in the second
chamber of the Legislature, in 1843, the promptness and decision with which he attempted to
suppress it, induced an insurrection among the troops, and he was compelled to fly, with about
thirty followers, to Jamaica. He afterward proceeded to London, and finally to Paris, where
he lived quietly in the Rue de Madeline, enjoying the respect of many eminent men, and surrounded
by attached followers who shared his exile, until the 10th of July. On the 12th he was buried
with appropriate funeral honors.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE.

