There were sheep in and about the Black Hills of Dakota as late as 1890, for Mr. W.S. Phillips
has kindly informed me that about June of that year he saw three sheep on Mt. Inyan Kara. These
were the only ones actually seen during the summer, but they were frequently heard of from
cattle-men, and Mr. Phillips considers it beyond dispute that at that time they ranged from
Sundance, Inyan Kara and Bear Lodge Mountains--all on the western and southwestern slope of
the Black Hills, on and near the Wyoming-Dakota line--on the east, westerly at least to Pumpkin
Buttes and Big Powder River, and in the edge of the bad lands of Wyoming as far north as the
Little Missouri Buttes, and south to the south fork of the Cheyenne River, and the big bend
of the north fork of the Platte, and the head of Green River. This range is based on reports
of reliable range riders, who saw them in passing through the country. It is an ideal sheep
country--rough, varying from sage brush desert, out of which rises an occasional pine ridge
butte, to bad lands, and the mountains of the Black Hills. There are patches of grassy, fairly
good pasture land. The country is well watered, and there are many springs hidden under the
hills which run but a short distance after they come out of the ground and then sink. Timber
occurs in patches and more or less open groves on the pine ridges that run sometimes for several
miles in a continuous hill, at a height of from one to three or four hundred feet above the
plain. The region is a cattle country.

In 1893 and '97 fresh heads and hides were seen at Pocotello, Idaho, and at one or two other
points west of there in the lava country along Snake River and the Oregon short line. The sheep
were probably killed in the spurs and broken ranges that run out on the west flank of the main
chain of the Rockies toward the Blue Mountains of Oregon.

Mr. William Wells, of Wells, Wyo., has very kindly given me the following notes as to Colorado,
where he formerly resided. He says: "During 1890, '91, '92, there were a good many mountain
sheep on the headwaters of Roan Creek, a tributary of Grand River, in Colorado. Roan Creek
heads on the south side of the Roan or Book Plateau, and flows south into Grand River. The
elevation of Grand River at this point is about 5,000 feet, and the elevation of the Book Plateau
is about 8,500 feet. The side of the plateau toward Grand River consists of cliffs from 2,000
to 3,000 feet high, and as the branches of Roan Creek head on top of the plateau they form
very deep box canyons as they cut their way to the river. It is on these cliffs and in these
canyons that the sheep were found. I understand that there are some there yet, but I have not
been in that section since 1892. On all the cliffs are benches or terraces--a cliff of 300
to 1,000 feet at the top, then a bench, then another cliff, and so on to the bottom. The benches
are well grassed, and there is more or less timber, quaking asp, spruce and juniper in the
side canyons. There are plenty of springs along the cliffs, and as they face the south, the
winter range is good. The top of the plateau is an open park country, and at that time was,
and is yet, for that matter, full of deer and bear, but I never saw any sheep on top, though
they sometimes come out on the upper edge of the cliffs.

"There were, and I suppose are still, small bands of sheep on Dome and Shingle Peaks, on the
headwaters of White River, in northwestern Colorado.

"There was also a band of sheep on the Williams River Mountains which lie between Bear River
and the Williams Fork of Bear River, in northwestern Colorado, but these sheep were killed
off about 1894 or '95. The Williams River Mountains are a low range of grass-covered hills,
well watered, with broken country and cliffs on the south side, toward the Williams Fork.

"It is also reported that there is a band of sheep in Grand River Canyon, just above Glenwood
Springs, Colo., and sheep are reported to be on the increase in the Gunnison country, and other
parts of southwestern Colorado, as that State protects sheep."

Mr. W.J. Dixon, of Cimarron, Kan., wrote me in May, 1898, as follows: "In 1874 or '75 I killed
sheep at the head of the north fork of the Purgatoire, or Rio de las Animas, on the divide
between the Spanish Peaks and main range of the Rocky Mountains, southwest by west from the
South Peak. I was there also in November, 1892, and saw three or four head at a distance, but
did not go after them. They must be on the increase there."

In 1899 there was a bunch of sheep in east central Utah, about thirty miles north of the station
of Green River, on the Rio Grande Western Railroad, and on the west side of the Green River.
These were on the ranch of ex-member of Congress, Hon. Clarence E. Allen, and were carefully
protected by the owners of the property. The ranch hands are instructed not to kill or molest
them in any manner, and to do nothing that will alarm them. They come down occasionally to
the lower ground, attracted by the lucerne, as are also the deer, which sometimes prove quite
a nuisance by getting into the growing crops. The sheep spend most of their time in the cliffs
not far away. When first seen, about 1894, there were but five sheep in the bunch, while in
1899 twenty were counted. This information was very kindly sent to me by Mr. C.H. Blanchard,
at one time of Silver City, but more recently of Salt Lake City, in Utah.

Mr. W.H. Holabird, formerly of Eddy, New Mexico, but more recently of Los Angeles, Cal., tells
me that during the fall of 1896 a number of splendid heads were brought into Eddy, N.M. He
is told that mountain sheep are quite numerous in the rugged ridge of the Guadeloupe Mountains,
bands of from five to twelve being frequently seen. As to California, he reports: "We have
a good many mountain sheep on the isolated mountain spurs putting out from the main ranges
into the desert. I frequently hear of bands of two to ten, but our laws protect them at all
seasons."

My friend, Mr. Herbert Brown, of Yuma, Ariz., so well known as an enthusiastic and painstaking
observer of natural history matters, has kindly written me something as to the mountain sheep
in that Territory. He says: "Under the game law of Arizona the killing of mountain sheep is
absolutely prohibited, but that does not prevent their being killed. It does, however, prevent
their being killed for the market, and it was killing for the market that threatened their
extermination. So far as I have ever been able to learn, these sheep range, or did range, on
all the mountains to the north, west, and south of Tucson, within a hundred miles or so. I
know of them in the Superstition Mountains, about a hundred miles to the north; in the Quijotoas
Mountains, a like distance to the southwest, and in the mountains intermediate; I have no positive
proof of their existence in the Santa Ritas, but about twenty-three years ago I saw a pair
of old and weather-beaten horns that had been picked up in that range near Agua Caliente, that
is about ten or twelve miles southwest of Mt. Wrightson. I never saw any sheep in the range,
nor do I know of any one more fortunate than myself in that respect. In days gone by the Santa
Catalinas, the Rincon, and the Tucson Mountains were the most prolific hunting grounds for
the market men. So far as I can remember, the first brought to the market here were subsequent
to the coming of the railroad in 1880. They were killed in the Tucson Mountains by the 'Logan
boys,' well known hunters at that time. Later the Logans made a strike in the mines and disappeared.
For several years no sheep were seen, but finally Mexicans began killing them in the Santa
Catalinas, and occasionally six or eight would be hung up in the market at the same time. Later
the Papago Indians in the southwest began killing them for the market. These people, as did
also the Mexicans, killed big and little, and the animals, never abundant, were threatened
with extermination. Those killed by the Logans came from the Tucson Mountains; those killed
by the Mexicans from the Santa Catalinas, and those killed by the Indians probably from the
Baboquivari or Comobabi ranges. I questioned the hunters repeatedly, but they never gave me
a satisfactory answer.

"Although I never saw the sheep, I have repeatedly seen evidence of them in both the ranges
named. Inasmuch as I have not seen one in several years past, I feel very confident that there
are not many to see. Last year I learned of a large ram being killed in the Superstition Mountains
which was alone when killed. About three years ago the head of a big ram was brought to this
city. It is said to have weighed seventy pounds. I did not see it, nor did I learn where it
came from.

"The Superstition and the Santa Catalinas are the very essence of ruggedness, but notwithstanding
this I am constrained to believe that the days of big game are nearly numbered in Arizona.
The reasons for this are readily apparent. The mountain ranges are more or less mineralized.
To this there is hardly an exception. There is no place so wild and forbidding that the prospector
will not enter it. If 'pay rock' or 'pay dirt' is struck, then good-by solitude and big game.
A second cause is to be found in the cattle industry, which, as a rule, is very profitable.
One of the most successful cattle growers in the country once told me that cattle in Arizona
would breed up to 95 per cent. These breeders during the dry season leave the mesas and climb
to the top of the very highest mountains, and, of course, the more cattle the less game. A
year ago I was in the Harshaw Mountains, and was told by a young man named Sorrell that a bunch
of wild cattle occupied a certain peak, and that on a certain occasion he had seen a big mountain
sheep with the cattle.

"So far as I know, I never saw or heard of a case of scab among wild sheep."

Later, but still in 1898, Mr. Brown wrote me that, according to Mr. J. D. Thompson, mountain
sheep are common in all the mountains bordering the Gulf Coast in Sonora, and also in Lower
California. Mr. Thompson is operating mines in the Sierra Pinto, Sonora, 180 miles southeast
of Yuma. This range is about six miles long and 800 feet high. The mule deer and sheep are
killed according to necessity. Indians do the killing. A mule deer is worth two dollars, Mexican
money, and a sheep but little more, although the former are much more abundant than the latter.
The last sheep taken to camp was traded off for a pair of overalls.

"It is reasonably certain that with sheep in southern Arizona and southern Sonora, every mountain
range between the two must be tenanted by this species.

"During the August feast days the Papago Indians living about Quitovac generally have a Montezuma
celebration, in which live deer are employed. For this purpose several are caught. Subsequently
they are killed and eaten. They are taken by relays of men or horses, sometimes both."

In northern Arizona sheep are still common. Dr. C. Hart Merriam in his report on the San Francisco
Mountain--"North American Fauna" III.--recorded the San Francisco herd, of which he saw eight
or nine together. He also recorded their presence at the Grand Canyon, where they are still
fairly common, though very wary.

Mr. A.W. Anthony, of California, wrote me in 1898 concerning sheep in southern California,
and I am glad to quote his letter almost in full. He says: "In San Diego county, Cal., there
are a few sheep along the western edge of the Colorado Desert. So far as I know, these are
all in the first ranges above the desert, and do not extend above the piñon belt. These barren
hills are dry, broken and steep, with very little water, and except for the stock men, who
have herds grazing on the western edge of the desert, they are very seldom disturbed. Along
the line of the old Carriso Creek stage road from Yuma to Los Angeles, between Warner Pass
and the mouth of Carriso Creek--where it reaches the desert--are several water holes where
sheep have, up to 1897, at least, regularly watered during the dry season.

"I have known of several being killed by stock men there during the past few years, by watching
for them about the water. As a rule, the country is too dry, open and rough to make still-hunting
successful. At the same time I think they would have been killed off long since except for
reinforcements received from across the line in Lower California.

"Up to 1894 a few sheep were found as far up the range as Mt. Baldy, Los Angeles county, and
they may still occur there, but I cannot be sure. One or two of the larger ranges west of the
Colorado River, in the desert, were, two years ago, and probably are still, blessed with a
few sheep. I have known of two or three parties that went after them, but they would not tell
where they went; not far north of the Southern Pacific Railroad, I think.

"In Lower California sheep are still common in many places, but are largely confined to the
east side of the peninsula, mostly being found in the low hills between the gulf and the main
divide. A few reach the top of San Pedro Martir--12,000 feet--but I learn from the Indians
they never were common in the higher ranges. The piñon belt and below seem to be their habitat,
and in very dry, barren ranges. I have known a few to reach the Pacific, between 28 deg. n.
lat. and 30 deg. n. lat.; but they never seem at home on the western side of the peninsula.

"Owing to their habitat, few whites care to bother them--it costs too much in cash, and more
in bodily discomfort; but the natives kill them at all seasons; not enough, however, to threaten
extermination unless they receive help from the north.

"I have no knowledge of any scab, or other disease, affecting the sheep, either in southern
or Lower California."

For northern California, records of sheep are few. Dr. Merriam, Chief of the Biological Survey,
tells me that sheep formerly occurred on the Siskiyou range, on the boundary between California
and Oregon, and that some years ago he saw an old ram that had been killed on these mountains.
On Mt. Shasta they were very common until recently. In the High Sierra, south of the latitude
of Mono Lake, a few still occur, but there are extremely rare.

In Oregon records are few. Dr. Merriam informs me that he has seen them on Steen Mountain,
in the southeastern part of the State, where they were common a few years ago. Mr. Vernon Bailey,
of the Biological Survey, has seen them also in the Wallowa Mountains. The Biological Survey
also has records of their occurrence in the Blue Mountains, where they used to be found both
on Strawberry Butte and on what are called the Greenhorn Mountains. The last positive record
from that region is in 1895. In 1897 Mr. Vernon Bailey reported sheep from Silver and Abert
Lakes in the desert region east of the Cascade. They were formerly numerous in the rocky regions
about Silver Lake, and a few still inhabited the ridges northeast of Abert Lake.

In Nevada Mr. Bailey found sheep in the Toyabe range.

Mr. Bailey found sheep in the Seven Devils Mountains, and he and Dr. Merriam found them in
the Salmon River, Pahsimeroi and Sawtooth Mountains, all in Idaho. Mr. Bailey also found them
in Texas in the Guadaloupe Mountains and in most of the ranges thence south to the boundary
line in western Texas.

       *       *       *       *       *

From what has already been said it will be seen that in inaccessible places all over the western
country, from the Arctic Ocean south to Mexico, and at one or two points in the great plains,
there still remain stocks of mountain sheep. Once the most unsuspicious and gentle of all our
large game animals, they have become very shy, wary, and well able to take care of themselves.
In the Yellowstone Park, on the other hand, they have reverted to their old time tameness,
and no longer regard man with fear. There, as is told on other pages of this volume, they are
more tame than the equally protected antelope, mule deer or elk.

Should the Grand Canyon of the Colorado be set aside as a national park, as it may be hoped
it will be, the sheep found there will no doubt increase, and become, as they now are in the
Yellowstone Park, a most interesting natural feature of the landscape. And in like manner,
when game refuges shall be established in the various forest reservations all over the western
country, this superb species will increase and do well. Alert, quick-witted, strong, fleet
and active, it is one of the most beautiful and most imposing of North American animals. Equally
at home on the frozen snowbanks of the mountain top, or in the parched deserts of the south,
dwelling alike among the rocks, in the timber, or on the prairie, the mountain sheep shows
himself adaptable to all conditions, and should surely have the best protection that we can
give him.

I shall never forget a scene witnessed many years ago, long before railroads penetrated the
Northwest. I was floating down the Missouri River in a mackinaw boat, the sun just topping
the high bad land bluffs to the east, when a splendid ram stepped out, upon a point far above
the water, and stood there outlined against the sky. Motionless, with head thrown back, and
in an attitude of attention, he calmly inspected the vessel floating along below him; so beautiful
an object amid his wild surroundings, and with his background of brilliant sky, that no hand
was stretched out for the rifle, but the boat floated quietly on past him, and out of sight.
It is the same kind of sentiment which must he aroused, and aroused in time, to bring about
Government legislation if we are to preserve our native animals. That which principally appeals
to us in the Sequoia is its antiquity as a race, and the fact that California is its last refuge.

As a special and perhaps somewhat novel argument for preservation, I wish to remind you of
the great antiquity of our game animals, and the enormous period of time which it has taken
nature to produce them. We must have legislation, and we must have it in time. I recall the
story of the judge and jury who arrived in town and inquired about the security of the prisoner,
who was known to be a desperate character; they were assured by the crowd that the prisoner
was perfectly secure because he was safely hanging to a neighboring tree. If our preservative
measures are not prompt, there will be no animals to legislate for.

SENTIMENT AND SCIENCE.

The sentiment which promises to save the Sequoia is due to the spread of knowledge regarding
this wonderful tree, largely through the efforts of the Division of Forestry. In the official
chronology of the United States Geological Survey--which is no more nor less reliable than
that of other geological surveys, because all are alike mere approximations to the truth--the
Sequoia was a well developed race 10,000,000 of years ago. It became one of a large family,
including fourteen genera. The master genus--the Sequoia--alone includes thirty extinct species.
It was distributed in past times through Canada, Alaska, Greenland, British Columbia, across
Siberia, and down into southern Europe. The Ice Age, and perhaps competition with other trees
more successful in seeding down, are responsible for the fact that there are now only two living
species--the "red wood," or Sequoia sempervirens, and the giant, or Sequoia gigantea. The last
refuge of the gigantea is in ten isolated groves, in some of which the tree is reproducing
itself, while in others it has ceased to reproduce.

In the year 1900 forty mills and logging companies were engaged in destroying these trees.

All of us regard the destruction of the Parthenon by the Turks as a great calamity; yet it
would be possible, thanks to the laborious studies which have chiefly emanated from Germany,
for modern architects to completely restore the Parthenon in its former grandeur; but it is
far beyond the power of all the naturalists of the world to restore one of these Sequoias,
which were large trees, over 100 feet in height, spreading their leaves to the sun, before
the Parthenon was even conceived by the architects and sculptors of Greece.

LIFE OF THE SEQUOIA AND HISTORY OF THOUGHT.

In 1900 five hundred of the very large trees still remained, the highest reaching from 320
to 325 feet. Their height, however, appeals to us less than their extraordinary age, estimated
by Hutchins at 3,600, or by John Muir, who probably loves them more than any man living, at
from 4,000 to 5,000 years.

These trees are the noblest living things upon earth. I can imagine that the American people
are approaching a stage of general intelligence and enlightened love of nature in which they
will look back upon the destruction of the Sequoia as a blot on the national escutcheon.

VENERATION OF AGE.

The veneration of age sentiment which should, and I believe actually does, appeal to the American
people when clearly presented to them even more strongly than the commercial sentiment, is
roused in equal strength by an intelligent appreciation of the race longevity of the larger
animals which our ancestors found here in profusion, and of which but a comparatively small
number still survive. To the unthinking man a bison, a wapiti, a deer, a pronghorn antelope,
is a matter of hide and meat; to the real nature lover, the true sportsman, the scientific
student, each of these types is a subject of intense admiration. From the mechanical standpoint
they represent an architecture more elaborate than that of Westminster Abbey, and a history
beside which human history is as of yesterday.

SLOW EVOLUTION OF MODERN MAMMALS.

These animals were not made in a day, nor in a thousand years, nor in a million years. As said
the first Greek philosopher, Empedocles, who 560 B.C. adumbrated the "survival of the fittest"
theory of Darwin, they are the result of ceaseless trials of nature. While the Sequoia was
first emerging from the Carboniferous, or Coal Period, the reptile-like ancestors of these
mammals, covered with scales and of egg-laying habits, were crawling about and giving not the
most remote prophecy of their potential transformation through 10,000,000 of years into the
superb fauna of the northern hemisphere.

The descendants of these reptiles were transformed into mammals. If we had had the opportunity
of studying the early mammals of the Rocky Mountain region with a full appreciation of the
possibilities of evolution, we should have perceived that they were essentially of the same
stock and ancestral to our modern types. There were little camels scarcely more than twelve
inches high, little taller than cotton-tail rabbits and smaller than the jackass rabbits; horses
15 inches high, scarcely larger than, and very similar in build to, the little English coursing
hound known as the whippet; it is not improbable that we shall find the miniature deer; there
certainly existed ancestral wolves and foxes of similarly small proportions. You have all read
your Darwin carefully enough to know that neither camels, horses, nor deer would have evolved
as they did except for the stimulus given to their limb and speed development by the contemporaneous
evolution of their enemies in the dog family.

THE MIDDLE STAGE OF EVOLUTION.

A million and a half years later these same animals had attained a very considerable size;
the western country had become transformed by the elevation of the plateaux into dry, grass-bearing
uplands, where both horses and deer of peculiarly American types were grazing. We have recently
secured some fresh light on the evolution of the American deer. Besides the Palaeryx, which
may be related to the true American deer Odocoileus, we have found the complete skeleton of
a small animal named Merycodus, nineteen inches high, possessed of a complete set of delicate
antlers with the characteristic burr at the base indicating the annual shedding of the horn,
and a general structure of skeleton which suggests our so-called pronghorn antelope, Antilocapra,
rather than our true American deer, Odocoileus. This was in all probability a distinctively
American type. Its remains have been found in eastern Colorado in the geological age known
as Middle Miocene, which is estimated (sub rosa, like all our other geological estimates),
at about a million and a half years of age. Our first thought as we study this small, strikingly
graceful animal, is wonder that such a high degree of specialization and perfection was reached
at so early a period; our second thought is the reverence for age sentiment.

THE AFRICAN PERIOD IN AMERICA.

The conditions of environment were different from what they were before or what they are now.
These animals flourished during the period in which western America must have closely resembled
the eastern and central portions of Africa at the present time.

This inference is drawn from the fact that the predominant fauna of America in the Middle and
Upper Miocene Age and in the Pliocene was closely analogous to the still extant fauna of Africa.
It is true we had no real antelopes in this country, in fact none of the bovines, and no giraffes;
but there was a camel which my colleague Matthew has surnamed the "giraffe camel," extraordinarily
similar to the giraffe. There were no hippopotami, no hyraces. All these peculiarly African
animals, of African origin, I believe, found their way into Europe at least as far as the Sivalik
Hills of India, but never across the Bering Sea Isthmus. The only truly African animal which
reached America, and which flourished here in an extraordinary manner, was the elephant, or
rather the mastodon, if we speak of the elephant in its Miocene stage of evolution. However,
the resemblance between America and Africa is abundantly demonstrated by the presence of great
herds of horses, of rhinoceroses, both long and short limbed, of camels in great variety, including
the giraffe-like type which was capable of browsing on the higher branches of trees, of small
elephants, and of deer, which in adaptation to somewhat arid conditions imitated the antelopes
in general structure.

ELIMINATION BY THE GLACIAL PERIOD.

The Glacial Period eliminated half of this fauna, whereas the equatorial latitude of the fauna
in Africa saved that fauna from the attack of the Glacial Period, which was so fatally destructive
to the animals in the more northerly latitudes of America. The glaciers or at least the very
low temperature of the period eliminated especially all the African aspects of our fauna. This
destructive agency was almost as baneful and effective as the mythical Noah's flood. When it
passed off, there survived comparatively few indigenous North American animals, but the country
was repopulated from the entire northern hemisphere, so that the magnificent wild animals which
our ancestors found here were partly North American and partly Eurasiatic in origin.

ELIMINATION BY MAN.

Our animal fortune seemed to us so enormous that it never could be spent. Like a young rake
coming into a very large inheritance, we attacked this noble fauna with characteristic American
improvidence, and with a rapidity compared with which the Glacial advance was eternally slow;
the East went first, and in fifty years we have brought about an elimination in the West which
promises to be even more radical than that effected by the ice. We are now beginning to see
the end of the North American fauna; and if we do not move promptly, it will become a matter
of history and of museums. The bison is on the danger line; if it survives the fatal effects
of its natural sluggishness when abundantly fed, it still runs the more insidious but equally
great danger of inbreeding, like the wild ox of Europe. The chances for the wapiti and elk
and the western mule and black-tail deer are brighter, provided that we move promptly for their
protection. The pronghorn is a wonderfully clever and adaptive animal, crawling under barb-wire
fences, and thus avoiding one of the greatest enemies of Western life. Last summer I was surprised
beyond measure to see the large herds of twenty to forty pronghorn antelopes still surviving
on the Laramie plains, fenced in on all sides by the wires of the great Four-Bar Ranch, part
of which I believe are stretched illegally.

RECENT DISAPPEARANCE.

I need not dwell on the astonishingly rapid diminution of our larger animals in the last few
years; it would be like "carrying coals to Newcastle" to detail personal observations before
this Club, which is full of men of far greater experience and knowledge than myself. On the
White River Plateau Forest Reserve, which is destined to be the Adirondacks of Colorado, with
which many of you are familiar, the deer disappeared in a period of four years. Comparatively
few are left.

The most thoroughly devastated country I know of is the Uintah Mountain Forest Reserve, which
borders between southwestern Wyoming and northern Utah. I first went through this country in
1877. It was then a wild natural region; even a comparatively few years ago it was bright with
game, and a perfect flower garden. It has felt the full force of the sheep curse. I think any
one of you who may visit this country now will agree that this is not too strong a term, and
I want to speak of the sheep question from three standpoints: First, as of a great and legitimate
industry in itself; second, from the economic standpoint; third, from the standpoint of wild
animals.

GENERAL RESULTS OF GRAZING.

The formerly beautiful Uintah Mountain range presents a terrible example of the effects of
prolonged sheep herding. The under foliage is entirely gone. The sheep annually eat off the
grass tops and prevent seeding down; they trample out of life what they do not eat; along the
principal valley routes even the sage brush is destroyed. Reforesting by the upgrowth of young
trees is still going on to a limited extent, but is in danger. The water supply of the entire
Bridger farming country, which is dependent upon the Uintah Mountains as a natural reservoir,
is rapidly diminishing; the water comes in tremendous floods in the spring, and begins to run
short in the summer, when it is most needed. The consequent effects upon both fish and wild
animals are well known to you. No other animal will feed after the sheep. It is no exaggeration
to say, therefore, that the sheep in this region are the enemies of every living thing.

BALANCE OF NATURE.

Even the owner cannot much longer enjoy his range, because he is operating against the balance
of nature. The last stage of destruction which these innocent animals bring about has not yet
been reached, but it is approaching; it is the stage in which there is no food left for the
sheep themselves. I do not know how many pounds of food a sheep consumes in course of a year--it
cannot be much less than a ton--but say it is only half a ton, how many acres of dry western
mountain land are capable of producing half a ton a year when not seeding down? As long as
the consumption exceeds the production of the soil, it is only a question of time when even
the sheep will no longer find subsistence.

THE LAST STAGE TO BE SEEN IN THE ORIENT.

While going through these mountains last summer and reflecting upon the prodigious changes
which the sheep have brought about in a few years, it occurred to me that we must look to Oriental
countries in order to see the final results of sheep and goat grazing in semi-arid climates.
I have proposed as an historical thesis a subject which at first appears somewhat humorous,
namely, "The Influence of Sheep and Goats in History." I am convinced that the country lying
between Arabia and Mesopotamia, which was formerly densely populated, full of beautiful cities,
and heavily wooded, has been transformed less by the action of political causes than by the
unrestricted browsing of sheep and goats. This browsing destroyed first the undergrowth, then
the forests, the natural reservoirs of the country, then the grasses which held together the
soil, and finally resulted in the removal of the soil itself. The country is now denuded of
soil, the rocks are practically bare; it supports only a few lions, hyaes, gazelles, and Bedouins.
Even if the trade routes and mines, on which Brooks Adams in his "New Empire" dwells so strongly
as factors of all civilization, were completely restored, the population could not be restored
nor the civilization, because there is nothing in this country for people to live upon. The
same is true of North Africa, which, according to Gibbon, was once the granary of the Roman
Empire. In Greece to-day the goats are now destroying the last vestiges of the forests.

I venture the prediction that the sheep industry on naturally semi-arid lands is doomed; that
the future feeding of both sheep and cattle will be on irrigated lands, and that the forests
will be carefully guarded by State and Nature as natural reservoirs.

COMMERCIALISM AND IDEALISM.

By contrast to the sheep question, which is a purely economic or utilitarian one, and will
settle itself, if we do not settle it by legislation based on scientific observation, the preservation
of the Sequoia and of our large wild animals is one of pure sentiment, of appreciation of the
ideal side of life; we can live and make money without either. We cannot even use the argument
which has been so forcibly used in the case of the birds, that the cutting down of these trees
or killing of these animals will upset the balance of nature.

I believe in every part of the country--East, West, North, and South--we Americans have reached
a stage of civilization where if the matter were at issue the majority vote would unquestionably
be, let us preserve our wild animals.

We are generally considered a commercial people, and so we are; but we are more than this,
we are a people of ideas, and we value them. As stated in the preamble of the Sequoia bill
introduced on Dec. 8, 1903, we must legislate for the benefit and enjoyment of the people,
and I may add for the greatest happiness of the largest number, not only of the present but
of future generations.

So far as my observation goes, preservation can only be absolutely insured by national legislation.

GOVERNMENT LEGISLATION BY ENGLAND, BELGIUM, GERMANY.

The English, a naturally law-abiding people, seem to have a special faculty for enforcing laws.
By co-operation with the Belgian Government they have taken effective and remarkably successful
measures for the protection of African game. As for Germany, in 1896 Mr. Gosselin, of the British
Embassy in Berlin, reported as follows for German East Africa:

That the question of preserving big game in German East Africa has been under the consideration
of the local authorities for some time past, and a regulation has been notified at Dar-es-Salaam
which it is hoped will do something toward checking the wanton destruction of elephants and
other indigenous animals. Under this regulation every hunter must take out an animal license,
for which the fee varies from 5 to 500 rupees, the former being the ordinary fee for natives,
the latter for elephant and rhinoceros hunting, and for the members of sporting expeditions
into the interior. Licenses are not needed for the purpose of obtaining food, nor for shooting
game damaging cultivated land, nor for shooting apes, beasts of prey, wild boars, reptiles,
and all birds except ostriches and cranes. Whatever the circumstances, the shooting is prohibited
of all young game--calves, foals, young elephants, either tuskless or having tusks under three
kilos, all female game if recognizable--except, of course, those in the above category of unprotected
animals. Further, in the Moschi district of Kilima-Njaro, no one, whether possessing a license
or not, is allowed without the special permission of the Governor to shoot antelopes, giraffes,
buffaloes, ostriches, and cranes. Further, special permission must be obtained to hunt these
with nets, by kindling fires, or by big drives. Those who are not natives have also to pay
l00 rupees for the first elephant killed, and 250 for each additional one, and 50 rupees for
the first rhinoceros and 150 for each succeeding one. Special game preserves are also to be
established, and Major von Wissmann, in a circular to the local officers, explains that no
shooting whatever will be allowed in these without special permission from the Government.
The reserves will be of interest to science as a means of preserving from extirpation the rarer
species, and the Governor calls for suggestions as to the best places for them. They are to
extend in each direction at least ten hours' journey on foot. He further asks for suggestions
as to hippopotamus reserves, where injury would not be done to plantations. Two districts are
already notified as game sanctuaries. Major von Wissmann further suggests that the station
authorities should endeavor to domesticate zebras (especially when crossed with muscat and
other asses and horses), ostriches, and hyaena dogs crossed with European breeds. Mr. Gosselin
remarks that the best means of preventing the extermination of elephants would be to fix by
international agreement among all the Powers on the East African coast a close time for elephants,
and to render illegal the exportation or sale of tusks under a certain age.

In December, 1900, Viscount Cranborne in the House of Commons reported as follows:

*  *  *  That regulations for the preservation of wild animals have been in force for some
time in the several African Protectorates administered by the Foreign Office as well as in
the Sudan. The obligations imposed by the recent London Convention upon the signatory Powers
will not become operative until after the exchange of ratifications, which has not yet taken
place. In anticipation, however, steps have been taken to revise the existing regulations in
the British Protectorates so as to bring them into strict harmony with the terms of the convention.
The game reserves now existing in the several Protectorates are: In (a) British Central Africa,
the elephant marsh reserve and the Shirwa reserve; in (b) the East Africa Protectorate, the
Kenia District; in (c) Uganda, the Sugota game reserve in the northeast of the Protectorate;
in (d) Somaliland, a large district defined by an elaborate boundary line described in the
regulations. The regulations have the force of law in the Protectorates, and offenders are
dealt with in the Protectorate Courts. It is in contemplation to charge special officers of
the Administrations with the duty of watching over the proper observance of the regulations.
Under the East African game regulations only the officers permanently stationed at or near
the Kenia reserve may be specially authorized to kill game in the reserve.

Other effective measures have been taken in the Soudan district. Capt. Stanley Flower, Director
of the Gizeh Zoological Gardens, made a very full report, which is quoted in Nature for July
25, 1901, p. 318.

STATE LAWS.

The preservation of even a few of our wild animals is a very large proposition; it is an undertaking
the difficulty of which grows in magnitude as one comes to study it in detail and gets on the
ground. The rapidly increasing legislation in the Western States is an indication of rapidly
growing sentiment. A still more encouraging sign is the strong sympathy with the enforcement
of the laws which we find around the National Park in Wyoming and Montana especially. State
laws should be encouraged, but I am convinced that while effective in the East, they will not
be effective in the West in time, because of the scattered population, the greater areas of
country involved, the greater difficulty of watching and controlling the killing, and the actual
need of game for food by settlers.

When we study the operation of our State laws on the ground we find that for various reasons
they are not fully effective. A steady and in some cases rapid diminution of animals is going
on so far as I have observed in Colorado and Wyoming; either the wardens strictly enforce the
laws with strangers and wink at the breaking of them by residents, or they draw their salaries
and do not enforce the laws at all.[9]

[Footnote 9: Addendum.--There is no question as to the good intention of State legislation.
The chief difficulty in the enforcement of the law is that officers appointed locally, and
partly from political reasons, shrink from applying the penalties of the law to their own friends
and neighbors, especially where the animals are apparently abundant and are sought for food.
The honest enforcement of the law renders the officer unpopular, even if it does not expose
him to personal danger. He is regarded as interfering with long established rights and customs.
The above applies to conscientious officers. Many local game wardens, as in the Colorado White
River Plateau, for example, give absolutely no attention to their duties, and are not even
on the ground at the opening of the season. In the Plateau in August, 1901, the laws were being
openly and flagrantly violated, not only by visitors, but by residents. At the same time the
National forest laws were being most strictly and intelligently enforced. There is no question
whatever that the people of various States can be brought to understand that National aid or
co-operation in the protection of certain wild areas is as advantageous to a locality as National
irrigation and National forest protection. It is to be sought as a boon and not as an infringement.]

THE VARIOUS CAUSES OF ELIMINATION.

The enemies of our wild animals are numerous and constantly increasing. (1) There is first
the general advance of what we call civilization, the fencing up of country which principally
cuts off the winter feeding grounds. This was especially seen in the country south of the National
Park last winter. (2) The destruction of natural browsing areas by cattle and sheep, and by
fire. (3) The destruction of game by sportsmen plays a comparatively small part in the total
process of elimination, yet in some cases it is very reckless, and especially bad in its example.
When I first rode into the best shooting country of Colorado in 1901, there was a veritable
cannonading going on, which reminded me of the accounts of the battle of El Caney. The destruction
effected by one party in three days was tremendous. In riding over the ground--for I was not
myself shooting--I was constantly coming across the carcasses of deer. (4) The summer and winter
killing for food; this is the principal and in a sense the most natural and legitimate cause,
although it is largely illegal. In this same area, which was more or less characteristic and
typical of the other areas, even of the conditions surrounding the national reserve in the
Big Horn region, the destruction was, and is, going on principally during the winter when the
deer are seeking the winter ranges and when they are actually shot and carted away in large
numbers for food both for the ranchmen and for neighboring towns. Making all allowances for
exaggeration, I believe it to be absolutely true that these deer were being killed by the wagonload!
The same is true of the pronghorn antelope in the Laramie Plains district. The most forceful
argument against this form of destruction is that it is extremely short-lived and benefits
comparatively few people. This argument is now enforced by law and by public sentiment in Maine
and New York, where the wild animals, both deer and moose, are actually increasing in number.

Granted, therefore, that we have both National and State sentiment, and that National legislation
by co-operation with the States, if properly understood, would receive popular support, the
carrying out of this legislation and making it fully effective will be a difficult matter.

It can be done, and, in my judgment, by two measures. The first is entirely familiar to you:
certain or all of the forest reserves must be made animal preserves; the forest rangers must
be made game wardens, or special wardens must be appointed. This is not so difficult, because
the necessary machinery is already at hand, and only requires adaptation to this new purpose.
It can probably be carried through by patience and good judgment. Second, the matter of the
preservation of the winter supply of food and protection of animals while enjoying this supply
is the most difficult part of the whole problem, because it involves the acquisition of land
which has already been taken up by settlers and which is not covered by the present forest
reserve machinery, and which I fear in many instances will require new legislation.

Animals can change their habits during the summer, and have already done so; the wapiti, buffalo,
and even the pronghorn have totally changed their normal ranges to avoid their new enemy; but
in winter they are forced by the heavy snows and by hunger right down into the enemy's country.

Thus we not only have the problem of making game preserves out of our forest reserves, but
we have the additional problem of enlarging the area of forest reserves so as to provide for
winter feeding. If this is not done all the protection which is afforded during the summer
will be wholly futile. This condition does not prevail in the East, in Maine and in the Adirondacks,
where the winter and summer ranges are practically similar. It is, therefore a new condition
and a new problem.

Greater difficulties have been overcome, however, and I have no doubt that the members of this
Club will be among the leaders in the movement. The whole country now applauds the development
and preservation of the Yellowstone Park, which we owe largely to the initiative of Phillips,
Grinnell, and Rogers. Grant and La Farge were pioneers in the New York Zoological Park movement.
We know the work of Merriam and Wadsworth, and we always know the sympathies of our honored
founder, member, and guest of this evening, Theodore Roosevelt.

What the Club can do is to spread information and thoroughly enlighten the people, who always
act rightly when they understand.

It must not be put on the minutes of the history of America, a country which boasts of its
popular education, that the Sequoia, a race 10,000,000 years old, sought its last refuge in
the United States, with individual trees older than the entire history and civilization of
Greece, that an appeal to the American people was unavailing, that the finest grove was cut
up for lumber, fencing, shingles, and boxes! It must not be recorded that races of animals
representing stocks 3,000,000 years of age, mostly developed on the American continent, were
eliminated in the course of fifty years for hides and for food in a country abounding in sheep
and cattle.

The total national investment in animal preservation will be less than the cost of a single
battleship. The end result will be that a hundred years hence our descendants will be enjoying
and blessing us for the trees and animals, while, in the other case, there will be no vestige
of the battleship, because it will be entirely out of date in the warfare of the future.

Henry Fairfield Osborn.

Distribution of the Moose

Republished by permission from the Seventh Annual Report of the Forest, Fish and Game Commission
of the State of New York.

The Scandinavian elk, which is closely related to the American moose, was known to classical
antiquity as a strange and ungainly beast of the far north; especially as an inhabitant of
the great Teutoborgian Forest, which spread across Germany from the Rhine to the Danube. The
half mythical character which has always clung to this animal is well illustrated in the following
quotation from Pliny's Natural History, Book 8, chapter 16:

"There is also the achlis, which is produced in the island of Scandinavia. It has never been
seen in this city, although we have had descriptions of it from many persons; it is not unlike
the elk, but has no joints in the hind leg. Hence it never lies down, but reclines against
a tree while it sleeps; it can only be taken by previously cutting into the tree, and thus
laying a trap for it, as, otherwise, it would escape through its swiftness. Its upper lip is
so extremely large, for which reason it is obliged to go backwards when grazing; otherwise
by moving onwards, the lip would get doubled up."  Pliny's achlis and elk were the same animal.

The strange stiffness of joint and general ungainliness of the elk, however, were matters of
such general observation as to apparently have become embodied in the German name eland, sufferer.
Curiously enough this name eland was taken by the Dutch to South Africa, and there applied
to the largest and handsomest of the bovine antelopes, Oreas canna.

In mediaeval times there are many references in hunting tales to the elk, notably in the passage
in the Nibelungen Lied describing Siegfried's great hunt on the upper Rhine, in which he killed
an elk. Among the animals slain by the hero is the "schelk," described as a powerful and dangerous
beast. This name has been a stumbling block to scholars for years, and opinions vary as to
whether it was a wild stallion--at all times a savage animal--or a lone survivor of the Megaceros,
or Irish elk. In this connection it may be well to remark that the Irish elk and the true elk
were not closely related beyond the fact that both were members of the deer family. The Irish
elk, which was common in Europe throughout the glacial and post-glacial periods, living down
nearly or quite to the historic period, was nothing more than a gigantic fallow deer.

The old world elk is still found in some of the large game preserves of eastern Germany, where
the Emperor, with his somewhat remarkable ideas of sportsmanship, annually adds several to
his list of slaughtered game. They are comparatively abundant in Scandinavia, especially in
Norway, where they are preserved with great care. They still survive in considerable numbers
in Russia and Siberia as far east as Amurland.

Without going into a detailed description of the anatomical differences between the European
elk and the American moose, it may be said that the old world animal is much smaller in size
and lighter in color. The antlers are less elaborate and smaller in the European animal, and
correspond to the stage of development reached by the average three-year-old bull of eastern
Canada. There is a marked separation of the main antler and the brow antlers. That this deterioration
of both body and antlers is due partly to long continued elimination of the best bulls, and
partly to inbreeding, is probable. We know that the decline of the European red deer is due
to these causes, and that a similar process of deterioration is showing among the moose in
certain outlying districts in eastern North America.

The type species of this group, known as Alces machlis, was long considered by European naturalists
uniform throughout its circumpolar distribution, in the north of both hemispheres. The American
view that practically all animals in this country represent species distinct from their European
congeners is now generally accepted, and the name Alces americanus has been given to the American
form. It would appear, however, that the generic name Alces must soon be replaced by the earlier
form Paralces.

The comparatively slight divergence of the two types at the extreme east and west limits of
their range, namely, Norway and eastern Canada, would indicate that the period of separation
of the various members of the genus is not, geologically speaking, of great antiquity.

The name moose is an Algonquin word, meaning a wood eater or browser, and is most appropriate,
since the animal is pre-eminently a creature of the thick woods. The old world term elk was
applied by the English settlers, probably in Virginia, to the wapiti deer, an animal very closely
related to the red deer of Europe. In Canada the moose is sometimes spoken of as the elk, and
even in the Rocky Mountain region one hears occasionally of the "flat-horned elk." We are fortunate
in possessing a native name for this animal, and to call it other than moose can only create
confusion.

The range of the moose in North America extends from Nova Scotia in the extreme east, throughout
Canada and certain of the Northern United States, to the limits of tree growth in the west
and north of Alaska. Throughout this vast extent of territory but two species are recognized,
the common moose, Alces americanus, and the Alaska moose, Alces gigas, of the Kenai Peninsula.
What the limits of the range of the Alaska moose are, may not be known for some years. Specimens
obtained in the autumn of 1902 from the headwaters of the Stikine River in British Columbia,
appear to resemble closely, in their large size and dark coloration, the moose of the Kenai
Peninsula. The antlers, however, are much smaller. These specimens also differ from the eastern
moose in the same manner as does the Kenai Peninsula animal, except in the antlers, which approximate
to those of the type species.

I have no doubt that the moose on the mainland along Cook Inlet will prove to be identical
with those of the Kenai Peninsula itself, but how far their range extends we have at present
no means of knowing. It is even possible that further exploration will bring to light other
species in the Northwestern Provinces and in Alaska.

Taking up this range in detail, the Nova Scotia moose are to-day distinctly smaller than their
kin in Ontario, but are very numerous when the settled character of the country is taken into
consideration. I have seen very few good antlers come from this district, and in my opinion
the race there is showing decided signs of deterioration.

These remarks apply, but with less force, to New Brunswick and to Maine, where the moose, though
larger than the Nova Scotia animal, are distinctly inferior to those of the region north of
the Great Lakes. This is probably due to killing off the big bulls, thus leaving the breeding
to be done by the smaller and weaker bulls; and, also, to inbreeding.

In Maine the moose originally abounded, but by the middle of the last century they were so
reduced in numbers as to be almost rare. Thanks to very efficient game laws, backed by an intelligent
public opinion, moose have greatly increased during the last few days in Maine and also in
New Brunswick. Their habits have been modified, but as far as the number of moose and deer
are concerned, the protection of game in Maine has been a brilliant example to the rest of
the country. During the same period, however, caribou have almost entirely disappeared.

Moose were found by the first settlers in New Hampshire and Vermont, appearing occasionally,
as migrants only, in the Berkshire hills of Massachusetts. In the State of New York the Catskills
appear to have been their extreme southern limit in the east; but they disappeared from this
district more than a century ago. In the Adirondacks, or the North Woods, as they were formerly
called, moose abounded among the hard wood ridges and lakes. This was the great hunting country
of the Six Nations. Here, too, many of the Canadian Indians came for their winter supply of
moose meat and hides. The rival tribes fought over these hunting grounds much in the same manner
as the northern and southern Indians warred for the control of Kentucky.

Going westward in the United States we find no moose until we reach the northern peninsula
of Michigan and northern Wisconsin, where moose were once numerous. They are still abundant
in northern Minnesota, where the country is extremely well suited to their habits. Then there
is a break, caused by the great plains, until we reach the Rocky Mountains. They are found
along the mountains of western Montana and Idaho as far south as the northwest corner of Wyoming
in the neighborhood of the Yellowstone Park, the Tetons and the Wind River Mountains being
their southern limit in this section.[10] The moose of the west are relatively small animals
with simple antlers, and have adapted themselves to mountain living in striking contrast to
their kin in the east.

[Footnote 10: William Roland, an old-time mountaineer, states that he once killed a moose about
ten miles north of old Ft. Tetterman, in what is now Wyoming.--EDITOR.]

North of the Canadian boundary we may start with the curious fact that the great peninsula
of Labrador, which seems in every way a suitable locality for moose, has always been devoid
of them. There is no record of their ever appearing east of the Saguenay River, and this fact
accounts for their absence from Newfoundland, which received its fauna from the north by way
of Labrador, and not from the west by way of Cape Breton. Newfoundland is well suited to the
moose, and a number of individuals have been turned loose there, without, as yet, any apparent
results. Systematic and persistent effort, however, in this direction should be successful.

South of the St. Lawrence River, the peninsula of Gaspé was once a favorite range, but the
moose were nearly killed off in the early '60's by hide-hunters. Further west they are found
in small numbers on both banks of the St. Lawrence well back from the settlements, until on
the north shore we reach Trois Rivières, west of which they become more numerous.

The region of the upper Ottawa and Lake Kippewa has been in recent years the best moose country
in the east. The moose from this district average much heavier and handsomer antlers than those
of Maine and the Maritime Provinces. However, the moose are now rapidly leaving this country
and pushing further north. Twenty-five years ago they first appeared, coming from the south,
probably from the Muskoka Lake country, into which they may have migrated in turn from the
Adirondacks. This northern movement has been going on steadily within the personal knowledge
of the writer. Ten years ago the moose were practically all south and east of Lake Kippewa,
now they are nearly all north of that lake, and extend nearly, if not quite, to the shores
of James Bay. How far to the west of that they have spread we do not know; but it is probable
that they are reoccupying the range lying between the shores of Lake Superior and James Bay,
which was long abandoned. Northwest of Lake Superior, throughout Manitoba and far to the north,
is a region heavily wooded and studded with lakes, constituting a practically untouched moose
country.

No moose, of course, are found in the plains country of Assiniboia, Saskatchewan, and Alberta;
but east in Keewatin, and to the north in Athabaska, northern British Columbia, and northwest
into Alaska we have an unbroken range, in which moose are scattered everywhere. They are increasing
wherever their ancient foe, the Indian, is dying off, and where white hunters do not pursue
too persistently. In this entire region, from the Ottawa in the east to the Kenai Peninsula
in the far west, moose are retiring toward the north before the advance of civilization, and
are everywhere occupying new country.

Wary and keen, and with great muscular strength and hardihood, the moose is pitting his acute
senses against the encroaching rifleman in the struggle for survival, and it is fair to believe
that this superb member of the deer family will continue to be an inhabitant of the forest
long after most other members of the group have disappeared.

The moose of Maine and the Maritime Provinces occupy a relatively small area, surrounded on
all sides by settlements, which prevent the animals from leaving the country when civilization
encroaches. In this district their habits have been greatly modified. They do not show the
same fear of the sound of rifle, of the smell of fire, or even of the scent of human footsteps,
as in the wilder portions of the country. In consequence of this change of habit, it is difficult
for a hunter, whose experience is limited to Maine or the Maritime Provinces, to appreciate
how very shy and wary a moose can be.

In the upper Ottawa country, when they first began to be hunted by sportsmen, the writer remembers
landing from his canoe on the bank of a small stream, and walking around a marsh a few acres
in extent to look at the moose tracks. Fresh signs, made that morning, were everywhere in evidence,
and it had apparently been a favorite resort all summer. Snow fell that night and remained
continuously on the ground for two weeks, when the writer again passed by this swamp and found
that during the interval it had not been visited by a single moose. The moccasin tracks had
been scented, and the moose had left the neighborhood. A moose with a nose as sensitive as
this would find existence unendurable in New Brunswick or Maine.

I have already referred to the relative size of the antlers of the moose from different localities,
and called attention to the inferiority of the heads from the extreme east. Large heads have,
however, come from this section, and even now one hears of several heads being taken annually
in New Brunswick running to five feet and a little over in spread. The test of the value of
a moose head is the width of its antlers between the extreme points. The antlers of a young
individual show but few points, but these are long and the webbing on the main blade is narrow.
The brow antlers usually show two points. As the moose grows larger the palmation becomes wider,
and the points more numerous but shorter, until in a very old specimen the upper part of the
antler is merely scalloped along the edge, and the web is of great breadth. In the older and
finer specimens the brow antlers are more complex, and show three points instead of two.

A similar change takes place in the bell. This pendulous gland is long and narrow in the young
hull, but as he ages it shortens and widens, becoming eventually a sort of dewlap under the throat.

One of the best heads from Maine that I can recall, was in the possession of the late Albert
Bierstadt, a member of the Boone and Crockett Club. The extreme spread of these antlers was
64-1/4 inches. This bull was killed in New Brunswick, near the Maine line, some twenty years
ago; another famous Maine head was presented to President Cleveland during his first term.
Photographs of both of these heads appear herewith. Many very handsome heads have been taken
in the Ottawa district, sometimes running well over five feet. It is safe to assume that a
little short of six feet is the extreme width of an eastern head.

The moose of the Rocky Mountains are relatively smaller than the eastern moose, and their antlers
are seldom of imposing proportions.

As we go north into British Columbia, through the headwaters of the Peace and Liard rivers,
the animal becomes very large in size, perhaps larger than anywhere else in the world as far
as his body is concerned, and it is highly probable that somewhere in this neighborhood the
range of the giant Alaska moose begins. The species, however, does not show great antler development
in this locality, but for some reason the antlers achieve their maximum development in the
Kenai Peninsula.

In the Kenai Peninsula and the country around Cook Inlet, Alaska, with an unknown distribution
to south and east, we find the distinct species recently described as Alces gigas. The animal
itself has great bulk, but perhaps not more so than the animals of the Cassiar Mountains, to
which it is closely related. The antlers of these Alaska moose are simply huge, running, on
the average, very much larger and more complex than even picked heads from the east. These
antlers, in addition to their size, have a certain peculiarity in the position of the brow
antlers, the plane of which is more often turned nearly at right angles to the plane of the
palmation of the main beam than in the eastern moose. In a high percentage of the larger heads
there is on one or both antlers an additional and secondary palmation. In the arrangement and
development of the brow antlers, and in the complexity produced by this doubling of the beam,
a startling resemblance is shown to the extinct Cervalces, a moose-like deer of the American
Pleistocene, possibly ancestral to the genus Alces. If this resemblance indicates any close
relationship, we have in the Alaska moose a survivor of the archaic type from which the true
moose and Scandinavian elk have somewhat degenerated. The photographs of the Alaska moose shown
herewith have this double palmation.

Several heads from the Kenai Peninsula ranging over six feet are authentic; a photograph of
the largest moose head in the world is published herewith. This head is in the possession of
the Field Columbian Museum at Chicago, and measures 78-1/2 inches spread. The animal that bore
it stood about seven feet at shoulders, but this height is not infrequently equaled by eastern
moose. The weight of the dried skull and antlers was ninety-three pounds, the palmation being
in places 2-1/8 inches thick.

There are several large heads in the possession of American taxidermists, which, if properly
authenticated, would prove of interest. No head, however, is of much value as a record unless
its history is well known, and unless it has been in the hands of responsible persons. The
measurements of antler spread can be considered authentic only when the skull is intact. If
the skull is split an almost imperceptible paring of the skull bones at the joint would suffice
to drop the antlers either laterally out of their proper plane, or else pitch the main beam
backward. By either of these devices a couple of inches can be gained on each side, making
a difference of several inches in the aggregate. But the possession of an unbroken skull is
by no means a guarantee of the exact size of the head when killed.

Since large antlers, and especially so-called "record heads," of any species of deer command
a price among those who desire to pose as sportsmen, and have not the strength or skill to
hunt themselves, it has become a regular business for dealers to buy up unusual heads. The
temptation to tamper with such a head and increase its size is very great, and heads passing
through the hands of such dealers must be discarded as of little scientific value. A favorite
device is to take a green head, force the antlers apart with a board and a wedge every few
days during the winter. By spring the skull and antlers are dry and the plank can be removed.
The spread of antlers has meantime gained several inches since the death of the animal that
bore them. Such a device is almost beyond detection.

It is an exceedingly difficult matter to formulate a code of hunting ethics, still harder to
give them legal force; but public opinion should condemn the kind of sportsmanship which puts
a price on antlers. As trophies of the chase, hard won through the endurance and skill of the
hunter, they are legitimate records of achievement. The higher the trophy ranks in size and
symmetry, the greater should be its value as an evidence of patient and persistent chase. To
slay a full grown bull moose or wapiti in fair hunt is in these days an achievement, for there
is no royal road to success with the rifle, nor do the Happy Hunting Grounds longer exist on
this continent; but to kill them by proxy, or buy the mounted heads for decorative purposes
in a dining room, in feeble imitation of the trophies of the baronial banquet hall, is not
only vulgar taste, but is helping along the extermination of these ancient types. An animal
like the moose or the wapiti represents a line of unbroken descent of vast antiquity, and the
destruction of the finest members of the race to decorate a hallway cannot be too strongly
condemned.

The writer desires to express his thanks for photographs and information used in this article
to Dr. J.A. Allen, of the American Museum of Natural History, New York City; Dr. Daniel Giraud
Elliot, of the Field Columbian Museum, Chicago; and to Mr. Andrew J. Stone, the explorer.

Madison Grant.

The Creating of Game Refuges

It was my pleasant task, during the past summer, to visit a portion of the Forest Reserves
of the United States for the purpose of studying tracts which might be set aside as Game Refuges.
To this end I was commissioned by the Division of Biological Survey of the United States Department
of Agriculture as "Game Preserve Expert," a new title and a new function.

The general idea of the proposed plan for the creation of Game Refuges is that the President
shall be empowered to designate certain tracts, wherein there may be no hunting at all, to
be set aside as refuges and breeding grounds, and the Biological Survey is accumulating information
to be of service in selecting such areas, when the time for creating them shall arrive. The
Forest Reserves of the United States are under the care of the Department of the Interior,
and not under the Agricultural Department, where one would naturally expect them to be. Their
transfer to the Department of Agriculture has been agitated more than once, and is still a
result much to be desired. Although acting in this mission as a representative of the Biological
Survey under the latter Department, I bore a circular letter from the Secretary of the Interior,
requesting the aid of the superintendents and supervisors of the Forest Reserves. Through them
I could always rely upon the services of a competent ranger, who acted as guide.

Arriving in California in March, I was somewhat more than six months engaged in the work; in
that time visiting seven reserves in California and one in the State of Washington, involving
a cruise of 1,220 miles in the saddle and on foot, within the boundaries of the forest, besides
500 miles by wagon and stage. Since the addition of an extra member to the party is ever an
added risk of impaired harmony, and since the practice of any art involving skill is always
a pleasure, I employed no packer during the entire time of my absence, but did this work myself,
assisted on the off-side by Mr. Thurston, who accompanied me, and who helped in every way within
his power. May I take this opportunity to thank him for aid of many sorts, and on all occasions,
and for unflagging interest in the problem which we had before us. California has long since
ceased to be a country where the use of the pack train is a customary means of travel. It is
now an old and long settled region where the frontier lies neither to the east nor to the west,
but has escaped to the vicinity of timber line, nearly two miles straight up in the air. Comparatively
few people outside of the Sierra Club, that admirable open-air organization of "the Coast,"
have occasion to visit it, and such trips as they make are of brief duration.

Since it is not desirable to visit the high Sierras before the first of July, three full months
were at my disposal for the study of the reserves of southern California, a section of great
interest, and of the utmost importance to the State. In southern California one hears frequent
mention of the Pass of Tehachapi; it is the line of demarcation between the great valley of
central California, drained by the San Joaquin River on the north, and of southern California
proper, which lies to the south. These two regions are of very different nature. In the San
Joaquin Valley lie the great wheat fields of California. South of the Pass of Tehachapi, people
are dependent upon irrigation. Here, too, lie wheat fields and also rich vineyards, and the
precious orchards of oranges and lemons; further south the equally valuable walnut and almond
groves.

The seven Forest Reserves of southern California may be regarded as one almost continuous tract
embracing about 4,000,000 acres, lying on either side of the crest of the Coast Range; they
are economically of enormous importance to California, but not on account of their timber.
In many cases they are forest reserves without trees; for example, the little Trabuco Canyon
Reserve, which has but a handful of Coulter pines, and on the northern slope a few scattered
spruce. The western slope of the foothills of the San Jacinto, San Bernardino, San Gabriel,
Zaca Lake and Pine Mountain, and Santa Ynez reserves, are clad only in chaparral, yet the preservation
of these hillsides from fire is of vital importance to the people, since the mantle of vegetation
protects, to a certain degree, the sources of the streams from which the supply of water is
derived. In this country they believe that water is life; thus harking back to the teaching
of the Father of Philosophy, to Thales of Miletus, who lived six hundred years before Christ:
"The principle of all things is water, all comes from water, and to water all returns." Such
trees as there are here possess unusual interest; approaching the crest of the mountains one
finds a scattered growth of pines--the Coulter, ponderosa, Jeffrey's, the glorious sugar pine,
the Pinus contorta, and Pinus flexilis, the single leaf or nut pine, and, in scattered tracts,
the queer little knob-cone pine. Red and white firs are found, the incense cedar, the Douglas
spruce, the big cone spruce, and a number of deciduous trees, mainly oaks of several varieties,
with sycamore along the lower creeks, and the alder tree, strikingly like the alder bush of
our eastern streams and pastures, but of Gargantuan proportions, grown out of all recognition.
Scattered representatives of other species are found--the maple, cherry, dogwood, two varieties
of sumac, the yerba del pasmo (or bastard cedar), madroños, walnut, mesquite, mountain mahogany,
cottonwood, willow, ash, many varieties of bushes, also the yucca, mescal, cactus, etc. I have
given but a bald enumeration of these; the forming of an acquaintance with so many new trees,
shrubs, and flowering herbs is of great interest, and increasingly so from day to day, as one
comes to live with them in the different reserves. The pleasure to be derived is cumulative--each
acquisition of knowledge adding to the satisfaction of that which comes after--it is of a sort,
however, to be experienced in the presence of the thing itself; any description at a distance
must necessarily be shadowy and unreal, only the dry bones of something which one sees there,
a thing of beauty and instinct with life.

The characteristic feature of these southern forests is their open nature; so far as the roughness
of the mountains will permit, one may go anywhere in the saddle without being hindered by underbrush.
Outside of their limits, however, and on many hillsides within the reserves, the chaparral
offers an impenetrable barrier; in some of them this growth has captured the greater portion
of their surface. The forests themselves are often very beautiful; growing, as they do, openly,
there is constant sunlight during many months of the year, so that all the ground is warm and
vibrant with energy. As a natural consequence, great individuality is shown in the tree forms,
as different as possible from the gloom and severe uniformity of the Oregon and Washington
forests. The former are dry, light, and cheerful; the latter, moist, dark, silent, and somewhat
forbidding. The northern forests of the Coast have their attractive features, to be sure; they
are fecund, solemn, and majestic, but the prevailing note is not cheerfulness, as here in the
south.

In a paper of the present proportions it is impossible to give, except in outline, a report
of the summer's work. I began at San Juan Capistrano, one of the old mission towns with a beautiful
ruin, lying near the sea on the west of the Trabuco Canyon Reserve. My first cruise was through
a chaparral country on the slope overlooking the Pacific. I learned here of few deer and of
relentless warfare against such as remain. After that, from Elsinore, strange echo of that
sea-girt castle in Shakespeare's Denmark, I cruised so as to have as well an understanding
of the eastern slope of this, the smallest of the Coast reserves. From Trabuco Peak we could
study the physical geography of the northern half of its area. I saw here what I did not again
come across in California--a small flock of the band-tailed pigeon, a bird as large as the
mountain quail, very handsome, indeed, and one that now should be protected by law. These,
as well as the mountain quail, swallow whole the acorns, which this season lay beneath the
live oak trees in lavish abundance; long thin acorns, quite different from ours. In the San
Jacinto Reserve I made a cruise through the southern half; much of this section is clothed
in scrub oak, with scattered deer throughout. In the northern and more mountainous portions,
on the contrary, one finds himself in the open forest, the summer range of the deer. At the
time of our visit these were at a lower altitude, in the chaparral and among the scrub oaks
of the foothills.

Going thence by rail north to Santa Barbara, I inspected the narrow strip of the Santa Ynez
Reserve, and the eastern and western sections of the Zaca Lake and Pine Mountain Reserve. These
are under the control of different forest supervisors; they are both largely composed of chaparral
country, with scattered "pineries" on the mountains. The hunting here is regulated, to a certain
degree, by the problem of feed and water for the stock used by the hunters in gaining access
to the ground. Many enter these tracts from the south, as well as from the region adjacent
to Santa Barbara, and the deer have a somewhat harassed and chivied existence, although, owing
to the impenetrable nature of the chaparral outside of the pineries, there is a natural limit
to the power of the sportsman to accomplish their entire extermination. The present control
of hunters by the forest rangers is only tentative; naturally we hope to have in an ever-increasing
degree more scientific management both of the deer and of those who illegally kill them. The
sentiment of the community is enlightened, and would strengthen the hands of the Government
in enforcing the law. At present a ranger can do little more than maintain, so far as he can,
his authority by threats--threats which he has not the power to enforce.

In the San Gabriel and San Bernardino Reserves one finds himself at last in a forest country,
with mountains which command respect, a section full of superb feed for the deer, feed of many
sorts, for the deer have an attractive and varied bill of fare. Whole hillsides are found of
scrub oak, their chief stand-by, and of wild lilac or "deer brush," the latter familiar to
all readers of Muir as the Cleanothus, in those long periods of Miltonic sweep and dignity
in which he summons the clans of the California herbs and shrubs; an enumeration as stately
as the Homeric catalogue of the ships, and, to such as lack technical knowledge of botany,
imposing respect rather by sonorous appeal to the ear than by visual suggestion to the memory.
That herbs should be marshalled in so impressive an array fills one with admiration and with
somewhat of awe for these representatives of the vegetable kingdom. As Muir pronounces their
full-sounding titles, one feels that each is a noble in this distinguished company. No one
unprotected by a botany should have the temerity to enter, amid these lists, alone.

We visited this country in the season of flowers. Whole hillsides of chámisal ("chamìz" or
greasewood) bore their delicate, spirea-like, cream-colored blossoms--when seen at a distance,
like a hovering breath, as unsubstantial as dew, or as the well-named bloom on a plum or black
Hamburg grape. The superb yucca flaunted its glorious white standards, borne proudly aloft
like those of the Roman legions, each twelve or fifteen feet in height, supporting myriads
of white bells. The Mexicans call this the "Quixote"--a noble and fitting tribute to the knight
of La Mancha. The tender center of the plant, loved as food equally by man and beast, is protected
by many bristling bayonets, an ever-vigilant guard. At an altitude of seven thousand or eight
thousand feet, one passed through acres of buckthorn, honey-fragrant, this also a favorite
of the deer, now visited by every bee and butterfly of the mountain side. It is to be noted
that as one ascends the mountains the butterflies increase in numbers as well as the flowers
which they so closely resemble, save only the latter's stationary estate.

One sees in its perfection of color the "Indian paint brush," with its red of purest dye, and
adjoining it solid fields of blue lupine--the colors of Harvard and Yale, side by side, challenging
birds and all creatures of the air to a decision as to which of them bears itself the more
bravely. Here is a chestnut tree; but look not overhead for its sheltering branches. This is
a country of surprises, and if the alder tree towers on high, the dwarf chestnut or chinkapin
here delegates to the mountains the pains of struggling toward the heavens, and, contented
with its lowly estate, freely offers to the various "small deer" of the forest its horde of
sweet, three-cornered nuts.

Under the pines one catches a distant gleam of the snow plant, an exquisite sharp note of color,
of true Roman shade, such as Rossetti loved to introduce into his pictures, shrill like the
vibrant wood of the flute. When a ray of the sun happens to strike this it gleams like a flaming
fiery sword, symbol of that which marked the entrance to Paradise. One can circumvent this
guard here, and when he is in these hills he is not far removed from a country well worth protecting
by all possible ingenuity, a paradise open to all such as love pure air and wholesome strong
exercise.

Much of the San Gabriel Reserve is rugged and well protected by nature to be the home of the
deer. San Bernardino, on the contrary, is the most accessible of the southern reserves, with
abundant feed for the horses of those who visit it, well watered, and full of noble trees.
So open is the forest that in the hunting season much of it must be abandoned by the deer,
who are perfectly cognizant of their danger, and, with somewhat of aid from man, are quite
capable of taking care of themselves.

After visiting these southern reserves, I outfitted at Redstone Park, above Visalia, in the
San Joaquin Valley, and cruised through the Sequoia National Park, among the big trees, at
that time patrolled by colored soldiers under the able command of Captain Young, an officer
who possesses the distinction of being the only negro graduate of West Point, I believe, now
holding a commission in the United States Army. The impression produced by the giant Sequoias
is one of increasing effect as the time among them is extended. In their province the world
has nothing to offer more majestic and more satisfying than these trees; one must live among
them to come fully beneath their charm.

Since the National Parks and military reservations are already game refuges, it was of importance
that I should see the Mt. Whitney Military Reservation, and for this purpose I crossed the
Sierra Reserve, through broad tracts suitable for Game Refuges, thus acquiring familiarity
with a large and most interesting section of forest country. From the top of Mt. Whitney, the
highest bit of land in the United States, exclusive of Alaska, one looks down two miles in
altitude to Owen's Lake almost directly beneath. I picked up, on the plateau of the summit,
a bit of obsidian Indian chipping, refutation in itself of the frequently repeated statement
that Indians do not climb high peaks. A month was spent with great profit in and about the
Sierra Reserve, and one might go there many summers, ever learning something new.

Having seen these southern reserves, and desiring to bring home with me an impression of the
northern woods, sharpened by immediate contrast, I next visited that one which is the most
to the northwest of them all, the Olympic Reserve in Washington. Here, at the head of the Elwha
Valley, near Mt. Olympus, we lived among the glaciers. The forest between the headwaters and
the sea affords a superb contrast to California; here are found fog and moisture, and super-abounding
heavy vegetation. In the thick shade grow giant ferns of tropic luxuriance. The rhododendron
thrives, its black glossy leaves a symbol of richly nourished power. The devil's club flaunts
aloft its bright berries, and poisonously wounds whomsoever has the misfortune even to touch
its great prickly leaves, nearly as big as an elephant's ear; if there be a malignant old rogue
of the vegetable kingdom, this is he, sharing with the wait-a-bit thorn of Africa an evil eminence.
Many new plants meet the eye, a wealth of berries--the Oregon grape, the salmon berry, red
or yellow, as big as the yolk of an egg, the salal berry, any quantity of blueberries, huckleberries,
both red and blue, sarvis berries, bear berries, mountain ash berries (also loved of bears),
thimble berries, high bush cranberries, gooseberries--large and insipid--currants, wild cherries,
choke cherries; many of these friends of old, others seen here for the first time, dainty picking
in the autumn for deer, bears, foxes, squirrels and many birds. What particularly appealed
to me was a wild apple, no larger than the eye of a hawk, but quite able to survive in a fierce
contest for life, and with a pleasant, clean, sharp taste, very tonic to the palate, and with
diminutive rosy cheeks as tempting as a stout Baldwin--a fine, courageous little product of
the wild life, symbol of the energetic quality of the Olympic air. I, for one, am a firm believer
in the axiom that a climate which will give the right "tang" to an apple will also produce
determined and energetic men; this whole region, spite of its fogs, has a glorious future before
it. Superb firs towered hundreds of feet above our heads, and archaic-looking cedars, a thousand
years old, thrust their sturdy shoulders firmly against the storms and the winds. But the valleys,
the trees and the glaciers, were only the mise-en-scène of that which constituted primarily
the reason of my visiting this peninsula. Here is the only wild herd of elk of any considerable
size outside of the Yellowstone National Park, a most beautiful elk now separated from the
Rocky Mountain species. Besides this herd there are only a few survivors of the once innumerable
herds of the Pacific Coast, one little bunch in California, and a few scattered individuals
in the mountains of Oregon and Washington. It is excessively hard to form any correct estimate
of how many remain; probably there are at least a thousand, possibly several times that number.
At all events, there is a scattered herd large enough to insure the existence of the species
if they might now be protected. Unfortunately the sentiment of the community in the vicinity
of the Olympics is just about what it was in Colorado in the seventies and in the early eighties--almost
complete apathy, so far as taking effective precaution is concerned, to prevent the killing
of these animals in violation of the law. I saw one superb herd south of the headwaters of
the Elwha, and was informed that in the winter a large number come lower down into the valley
of that river; here and elsewhere the finest specimens are slaughtered by head-hunters for
the market, and by anyone, in fact, who may covet their hides or meat or their "tusks," now
unfortunately very valuable.

Presumably, in so killing them, picked specimens are selected. Of course the finest bulls may
not thus be systematically eliminated without causing the general deterioration of the herd.
Nature's method of progress is by the survival of the fittest. Man reverses this so soon as
cupidity makes him the foe of wild animals. The country here is an excessively hard one to
get about in with stock, owing to its very rugged nature and to the scarcity of feed, so that
there is slight danger of the extermination of these elk by sportsmen during the open season.
In the winter, however, the hunters have them at their mercy. I was assured by one very level-headed
man that, in the winter of 1902-3, two men killed seventeen elk from the Elwha herd. Since
the individuals who killed the elk are well known and are practically unmolested, the immunity
which they enjoy tempts others to similar violation of the law. More recently still, during
this last winter, the game warden of Washington reports the finding of the carcasses of nineteen
elk, killed for their tusks.

This country, with its splendid glaciers and mountains covered with snow, presents quite the
most beautiful scenery to be found within the limits of the United States, exclusive of Alaska,
and, before many years, is destined to become a place of general resort for travelers. For
this to be accomplished, all that is needed is greater facility of travel. It would be a thousand
pities if we should tolerate the extermination of the elk, which would afford delight to every
one who visited the Olympics, if only the herd might be preserved. One can hardly blame the
hunters for taking advantage of the laxity of public sentiment. The State has it within its
power easily to protect these animals by the employment of two or three game detectives of
the right sort--keen, energetic men. These would soon break up the illicit traffic and bring
the offenders to justice. The people of the whole Pacific seaboard, who are justly proud of
their region, and of every trait peculiarly its own, would bitterly lament the final disappearance
of elk from this whole countryside, yet the fact remains that hardly a voice there, outside
of the organization of the "Elks," is raised to protest against these flagrant acts of vandalism
which are taking place beneath their very eyes.

This visit to the northern forest was full of varied and commanding interest, but the chief
occupation of my summer, when all is said, was with California.

Deer are practically the only game to be considered in these southern California reserves.
There are mountain sheep to the east, in the mountains of the Mojave and Colorado deserts,
but they are almost unmolested by the hunters of the seaboard country, and, except in rare
instances, are no longer found in the reserves. Occasionally odd ones are seen, venturesome,
determined individuals, on their travels, in the energy of youthful maturity, tempted by curiosity,
but these soon realize that they are not secure where so many humans abound, and scurry back
to their desert fastnesses. As refuges are created and breeding grounds established, sheep
will return, and, it is hoped, make their permanent home in the reserves. There are still enough
of them in scattered places for this purpose. I was told of one method of hunting in the desert
hills, sometimes resorted to by Indians and white men of the baser sort, that seems hateful
and unsportsmanlike. The springs at which they drink are long distances apart. In some instances
the alleged sportsmen camp by these and watch them without intermission for three days and
nights, at the end of which period, when the sheep are exhausted by thirst, the hunter has
them at his mercy. This has nearly as much to commend it to the self-respecting sportsman as
the practice of imitating the cry of the female moose to lure the bull to mad recklessness
and his undoing, a challenge hard for a courageous animal to resist, a treacherous snare set
before his feet. It would seem as if a right-minded man would hesitate to take so base an advantage
as by either of these two methods of hunting.

Antelope are nearly exterminated in southern California, and there is but a single little bunch
of elk--those in the San Joaquin Valley, sole survivors of the vast herds which ranged throughout
those lowlands when Fremont came to the country in 1845. These elk are smaller than those of
the mountains, and bear a striking resemblance to the Scotch red deer, so familiar to us in
Landseer's pictures. For years they have been protected by the generosity and wisdom of one
man, now no longer young, an altogether public-spirited and generous act. I was taken by the
manager of this ranch to see these elk as they came at night to feed in the alfalfa fields,
and again in the morning we followed their trail into the foothills and had a capital view
of seven superb bulls in their wild estate, as pretty a sight as one might see in California.
Who can feel ought save commiseration for a man who, standing on London bridge, could say,
"Earth has not anything to show more fair"?

Twice during the summer was I told of the presence in the mountains, by men who thought they
had seen them, of the mythical ibex. My informant, in each instance a ranger, assured me that
he had had a good look at the animal, and was sure that it was not a mountain ram. The back-curving
horns he said were "as long as his forearm," one added instance of the fact that a fish in
the brook is worth two on the string--if a good story be at stake! What my informant had seen,
of course, was a ewe, or young mountain ram before he had arrived at the age when the horns
begin to form their characteristic spiral. As for the great size of the horns, the animal was
running away, and every hunter is aware of the enormous proportions which the antlers attain
of an escaping elk or deer. How they suddenly shrink when the beast is shot is another story.

Incidentally, the refuges of southern California will include the breeding places of the trout
in the upper reaches of the streams, and will afford protection to grouse, quail, and other
birds, but primarily their purpose is to prevent the extermination of big game. In California
this has gone as far as it is safe to go if we are to save the remnant. Even the California
grizzly has been killed off so relentlessly that it was a question, when I was there, whether
a single pair survived which might possibly in that State preserve the species. The ranger
who knew the most about this was of the opinion that two or three were still left alive. He
had seen their tracks within a year.[11] There are, I have been assured, others in Oregon.

[Footnote 11: I have been informed since the above was written that he saw the tracks of a
single grizzly after I was there, toward the end of July.]

If I had my way, the first act in creating a game refuge should be to insure the survival of
the few that remain. These bears are pitifully wary as compared with their former bold and
domineering attitude; they would gladly keep out of harm's way if only they might be allowed
to do so. It is time, it seems to me, to call a truce to man's hostility to them, once a foe
not to be despised. Now they are so completely conquered that man owes it to himself not too
relentlessly to pursue a vanquished enemy. When we think of the enormous period of time, involving
millions of years, required to develop a creature of such gigantic strength as the California
grizzly, so splendidly equipped to win his living and to maintain his unquestioned supremacy--the
Sequoia of the animal kingdom of America--and when we contemplate this creature as the very
embodiment of vitality in the wild life, we shall not wantonly permit him to be exterminated,
and thus deprive those who are to come after us of seeing him alive, and of seeing him where
his presence adds a fine note of distinction to the landscape, a fitting adjunct to the glacier-formed
ravines of the Sierras.

The domestic sheep, which were once the prey of the bears, no longer range in these forests,
and so far as the depredation of bears among cattle is concerned, it is of so trifling a nature
as practically not to exist. It would seem that a nation of so vast wealth as ours could afford
to indulge in an occasional extravagance, such as keeping alive these few remaining bears;
of maintaining them at the public expense simply for the gratification of curiosity, of a quite
legitimate curiosity on the part of those who love the wild life, and every last vanishing
trait that remains of its old, keen energy. So far as danger to man is involved by their presence,
the experience in the Yellowstone National Park is that there is no such danger; when allowed
to do so, they draw their rations as meekly as a converted Apache; if they err at all, it is
on the side of exaggerated and rather pitiful humility.

It is mainly with the deer, however, that we are concerned. It is out of the question for any
thinking man who takes the slightest interest in these creatures to stand passively by and
permit them to be exterminated. To prevent such a catastrophe proper measures must be taken.
The hunting community increases with as great rapidity as that with which game decreases. Where
one man hunted twenty-five years ago, a score hunt for big game to-day. Unfortunately it has
become the fashion. It is a diversion involving no danger and, for those that understand it,
but slight hardship. If people are to continue to have this source of amusement, some well
matured and concerted plan must be devised to insure the continuance of game. Never in the
past history of the world has man held at his command the same potential control of wild beasts
as now, the same power to concentrate against them the forces of science. Man's supremacy has
advanced by leaps and bounds, while the animal's power to escape remains unchanged; all the
conditions for their survival constantly become more difficult. Man has, in its perfection,
the rapid-firing rifle, which, with the use of smokeless powder, gives him an enormous increase
of effectiveness in its flat trajectory. This is quite as great an element of its destructiveness
as its more deadly power and capacity for quick shooting, since it eliminates the necessity
for accurately gauging distance, one of the hardest things for the amateur hunter to learn.
If man so desires, he can command the aid of dogs. By their power of scent he has wild animals
at his mercy, and unless he deliberately regulates the slaughter which he will permit, their
entire extermination would be a matter of only a few years. Only at the end of the last year
we were told of the celebration in the Tyrol of the killing, by the Emperor of Austria, of
his two thousandth chamois. Eight years ago this same record was achieved by another Austrian,
a Grand Duke. This was in both instances, as I understand, by the means of fair and square
stalking, quite different from the methods of the more degenerate battue. At a single shooting
exhibition of this latter sort by the Crown Prince of Germany at his estate in Schleswig, on
one day in December last, were killed two hundred and ten fallow deer, three hundred and forty-one
red deer, and on the day following, eighty-seven large wild boar, one hundred and twenty-six
small ones, eighty-six fallow deer, and two hundred and one red deer. Any man, private citizen
as well as emperor or prince, has it within his power, if he be possessed of the blood craze,
to kill scores and hundreds of every kind of game. By the facilities of rapid travel the hunter,
with the least possible sacrifice of time, is transported with whatever of luxury a Pullman
car can confer (luxury to him who likes it) to the haunts and almost within the very sanctuaries
of game. Where formerly an expedition of months was required, now in a few days' time he is
carried to the most out-of-the-way places, to the barrens, the forests, the peaks, the mountain
glades--almost to the muskeg and the tundra.

How far the rage for hunting has captured the community in this country of the western seaboard
it is surprising to learn. In the year 1902 there were issued for the seven forest reserves
south of the Pass of Tehachapi, a tract three-quarters the size of Massachusetts, four thousand
permits to hunt. Inasmuch as one permit may admit more than a single person to the privileges
of hunting, it was estimated that at least five thousand people bearing rifles entered the
reserves. This besides the enormous horde of the peaceably disposed who also seek diversion
here, and who naturally disturb the deer to a certain extent. The supervisor of two reserves--the
San Gabriel and San Bernardino--embracing a tract less than half the size of Connecticut, assured
me that in 1902 sixty thousand persons entered within their borders; in the summer of 1903
this number was estimated at no less than ten thousand in excess of the previous year. In these
two reserves the number of permits for rifles and revolvers issued between June 1 and December
31, increased from 1,900 in the year 1902, to 3,483 in 1903, and as, in some cases, these were
issued for two or more persons, the supervisor estimates that at least 4,500 rifles were carried
last summer into these two reserves. He was of the opinion that two-thirds of these were borne
by hunters, the remainder as protection against bears and other ferocious wild beasts, which
exist only in imagination.[12]

[Footnote 12: "Relative to the figures for game permits, and the reason for the larger number
issued for 1903 over 1902, I cannot myself altogether explain the large increase. One reason,
however, was that our rainfall for the winter of 1902-3 was very large compared with that of
the five previous winters. As a result grass and feed were plentiful, and attracted many more
travelers and hunters, who figured that game would be much more plentiful owing to the abundance
of feed. I believe that this was the principal reason why so many obtained permits. The abundant
rain made camping more pleasant, as it started up springs which had been dry for several years.
I believe that this very thing, however, also tended to protect the game as it permitted them
to scatter more than for several years before, as water was more abundant. With all the increase
in guns and hunters I do not think that any more deer were killed than during the summer of
1902." (Letter from Forest Supervisor, Mr. Everett B. Thomas, Los Angeles, Feb. 13, 1904.)
It is to be noted that in the southern California reserves, on the ground of precaution against
forest fires, no shotguns may be carried into the reserves. As a result quail have greatly
increased in numbers.]

It is to be borne in mind that all through this California country there exists a race of hunters--active,
determined men, who passionately love this diversion. The people there have not been so long
graduated as we of the Atlantic Coast from the conditions of the frontier. The ozone of a new
country stirs more quickly the predatory instinct, never quite dead in any virile race. The
rifle slips easily from its scabbard, and there in plain sight before them are the forest-clad
mountains, a mile above their heads, in the cool and vital air, ever beckoning the hunter to
be up and away. These people feel in their blood the call of the wild. With a very considerable
proportion of the people upon farms, and still more in villages and small towns, the Fall hunt
is the commanding interest of the year. This is the one athletic contest into which they enter
heart and soul; it is foot-ball and yachting and polo and horse racing combined. For a young
man to go into the forest after deer and to come back empty-handed, is to lose prestige to
a certain extent among his fellows. Oftentimes, when a beginner returns in this way unsuccessful,
he is so unmercifully chaffed by his companions that he mentally records a vow not to be beaten
a second time, and, when he finds himself again in the forest for his annual hunt, with the
enthusiasm of youth, he would almost rather die than be defeated.

How hard the conditions are for the hunter no one would believe who has not himself seen the
country. In many places the hills are covered with an almost impenetrable chaparral of scrub
oak, buckthorn, greasewood, manzanita, and deer-brush, in which the wary deer have taken refuge.
In and through these, guided sometimes by the tracks of the deer, or encouraged by the presence
of such tracks even if he cannot follow them, up steep mountains, exposed to the heat of the
sun, in dust, over rocks, and without water, toils the hunter, who accounts himself lucky if,
by tramping scores of miles through this sort of impediment, he succeeds, after days of toil,
in killing his deer. Perhaps he has been without fresh meat for a week or a fortnight, and
often on short commons; is it to be wondered at that when a shot offers he avails himself of
the opportunity even if it be a doe that he fires at? How can the deer withstand such concentration
of fury?

Dr. Bartlett, Forest Supervisor of the Trabuco and San Jacinto Reserves, assured me that the
number of licenses to hunt in those two reserves issued annually exceeded, in his opinion,
the entire number of deer within their boundaries.

Everyone now is ready to admit that the extermination of the herd of buffalo in the seventies
was permitted by a crude, short-sighted policy on our part as a nation, and should we of the
early twentieth century allow the remaining deer, elk, mountain sheep, and antelope, the last
of the great bears, and the innumerable small creatures of the wild, to be crowded off the
face of the earth, we should be depriving our children and our children's children of a satisfaction
and of a source of interest which they would keenly regret. It would be well if we bore in
mind that we stand in a sort of fiduciary relation to the people who are to come after us,
so far as the wild portion of our land is concerned, those few remote tracts still untarnished
by man's craze to convert everything in the world, or beneath the surface of the earth, into
dollars for his own immediate profit. He has the same short-sighted policy in his hunting.
He is content to gratify the impulse of the hour without thought of those who are to spend
their lives here when we have led our brief careers and have gone to a well merited oblivion,
to reap our reward--

Heads without names, no more remembered.

Let us look this matter squarely in the face. We are the inheritors of these domains. It is
one of the most precious assets of posterity. Here, year by year, in steadily increasing proportion,
as wisdom more prevails, will men take comfort; and as the comprehension of nature's charms
penetrates their minds will they find content. One chief satisfaction that every American feels
from the mere fact of his nationality is the full assurance in his heart that any measure founded
on sound reason and prompted by generous impulse will receive, if not immediate acceptance,
at all events eventual recognition. In the end justice will prevail. Thus, in this matter before
us, it will naturally take a few years for Congress to realize that a genuine demand exists
for the creation of these refuges in every State, East as well as West, but the interest in
wild creatures, and the desire for their protection, if not a clamorous demand, is one almost
universally felt. All men, except a meager few of the dwarfed and strictly city-bred, partake
of this, and it is so much a sign of the times that no Sunday edition is complete without its
column devoted to wild creatures, their traits, their habits, or their eccentricities. One
could hardly name, outside of money-making and politics, an interest which all men more generally
share.

Every lad is a born naturalist, and the true wisdom, as all sensible people know, is to carry
unfatigued through life the boy's power of enjoyment, his freshness of perception, his alertness
and zest. Where the child's capacity for close observation survives into manhood, supplemented
by man's power of sustained attention, we have the typical temperament of the lover of the
woods, the mountains, and the wild--of the naturalist in the sense that Thoreau was a naturalist,
and many another whose memory is cherished.

It is not impossible for a man to be deeply learned and still to lack the power of awakening
enthusiasm in others; as a matter of fact, to be so heavily freighted with information that
he forgets to nourish his own finer faculties, his intuition, his sympathy, and his insight.
One must have lived for a time in the California mountains to realize how great is the service
to the men of his own and to succeeding generations of him who more than any one else has illuminated
the study of the Sierras and of all our forest-clad mountains, our glacier-formed hills, valleys
and glades. Not by any means do all lovers of nature, however faithful their purpose, come
to its study with the endowment of John Muir. In him we see the trained faculties of the close
and accurate observer, joined to the temperament of the poet--the capacity to think, to see
and to feel--and by the power of sustained and strong emotion to make us the sharers of his
joy. The beauty and the majesty of the forest to him confer the same exaltation of mind, the
same intellectual transport, which the trained musician feels when listening to the celestial
harmonies of a great orchestra. In proportion as one conceives, or can imagine, the fineness
of the musical endowment of a Bach or Beethoven, and in proportion as he can realize in his
own mind the infinity of training and preparation which has contributed to the development
of such a master musician--in such proportion may he comprehend and appreciate the unusual
qualities and achievements of a man like Muir. He will realize to some degree--indistinctly
to be sure, "seeing men as trees walking"--the infinity of nice and accurate observation, the
discriminating choice of illustration, the infallible tact and unvarying sureness with which
he holds our interest, and the dominant poetic insight into the nature of things, which are
spread before the reader in lavish abundance, in Muir's two books, "The Mountains of California"
and "Our National Parks."  No other books, in this province, by living author offer to the
reader so rich a feast. Recognizing the fine endowments of Thoreau, and how greatly all are
his debtors, still we of this generation are lucky in having one greater than he among us,
if wisdom of life and joyousness be the criterion of a sound and of a sane philosophy. The
time will come when this will be generally recognized. The verdict of posterity is the right
one, and the love of mankind is given throughout the centuries to the men of insight, who possess
the rare mental endowment of sustained pleasure. Call it perpetual youth, or joyousness, or
what you like, the fact remains that the power of sustained enthusiasm, lightness of heart
and gaiety, with the faculty of communicating to others that state of mind, is not one of the
commonest endowments of the human brain. It is one that confers great happiness to others,
and one to whose possessor we are under great obligation. Compare the career of Thoreau, lonely,
sad, and wedded to death--on the one hand, with that of Muir, on the other--a lover of his
kind, healthful, inspiring to gaiety, superabounding in vitality. Naturalists of this type
of mind, and so faithful in perfecting the talents entrusted to them, do not often appear in
any age.

In the designations of refuges for deer, various questions are to be considered, such as abundance
of food, proximity to water, suitable shelter, an exposure to their liking, for they may be
permitted to have whims in a matter of this sort, just as fully as Indians or the residents
of the city, when they deign to honor the country by their presence. The deer feel that they
are entitled to a certain remote absence from molestation; moderate hunting will not entirely
discourage them--a dash of excitement might prove rather entertaining to a young buck with
a little recklessness in his temperament--but unless a deer be clad in bullet-proof boiler
iron, there are ranges in the reserves of southern California where he would never dare to
show his face during the open season--regular rifle ranges. Where very severely hunted, like
the road agent, they "take to the brush," that is, hide in the chaparral. This is almost impenetrable.
It is very largely composed of scrub oak, buckthorn, chámisal or greasewood, with a scattered
growth of wild lilac, wild cherry, etc. So far as the deer make this their permanent home,
there is no fear of their extermination. They may be hunted effectively only with the most
extreme caution. Not one person in a thousand ever attains to the level of a still-hunter whose
accomplishment guarantees him success under such conditions. There are men of this sort, but
these are artists in their pursuit, whose attainments, like those of the professional generally,
are beyond comparison with those of the ordinary amateur. To hunt successfully in the chaparral,
requires a special genius. One must have exhaustless patience, tact trained by a lifetime of
this sort of work, perseverance incapable of discouragement, the silence of an Indian, and
in this phrase--when we are dealing with the skill of one who can make progress without sound
through the tangles of the dry and stiff California chaparral--is involved an exercise of skill
comparable only to the fineness of touch of a Joachim or a St. Gaudens. This sort of hunter
marks one end of the scale of perfection; near the other and more familiar extreme is found
the individual of whom this story is told. He was an Englishman and had just returned from
a trip into the jungle of India after big game, where he was accompanied by a guide, most expert
in his profession. One of the sportsman's friends asked this man how his employer shot while
on the trip. His reply was a model of tact and concise statement: "He shot divinely, but God
was very merciful to the animals."

He who reads this brief account may naturally ask: What were the practical results of your
Western trip? Have you any ideas which may be of value in the solution of this problem of Game
Refuges? My primary conception of the duties of a Game Expert, sent out by a Bureau of a United
States Department, was to approach this entire subject without preconceived theories, with
an open and unbiased mind; to see as many of the various reserves as possible, under the guidance
of the best men to be had, and, increasing in this manner my knowledge by every available means,
to reserve the period of general consideration and of specific recommendation until the whole
preliminary reconnoissance should be accomplished. The thing of prime importance is that the
game expert should see the reserves, and see them thoroughly. In a measure of such scope what
we desire is a well thought-out plan, based on knowledge of the actual conditions, knowledge
acquired in the field for the future use of him who has acquired it. No report can transfer
to the mind of another an impression thus derived.

I had been but a short time engaged in this campaign of education before it seemed wise to
abandon the limitations imposed by traveling in wagons; these held one to the valleys and to
the dusty ways of men. After that emancipation I lived in the haunts of the deer, traveling
with a pack train, and cruising in about the same altitude affected by that most thoroughbred
of all the conifers, the sugar pine. Trust the genius of that tree, the pine, of all those
that grow on any of the mountains of North America, of finest power, beauty, individuality,
and distinction, to select the most attractive altitude for its home, the daintiest air, the
air fullest of strong vitality and determination, whether man or deer is to participate in
the virtues of the favored zone. Many a time I went far beyond the region of the sugar pine,
and not infrequently cruised beneath its lower limits.

What that tree loves is a zone of about four thousand feet in width extending from three to
seven thousand feet above the level of the sea. The upper reaches of this belt are where the
deer range during the open season of the summer when they must be afforded protection. These
were traversed with care, and seen with as much thoroughness as possible. More of the reserves
might easily have been visited in other States, had I been content to do this in a sketchy
and cursory manner, but my idea was to derive the greatest possible amount of instruction for
a definite specific purpose, and it seemed to me for the accomplishment of this end to be essential
that one should spend a sufficiently long time in each forest to receive a strong impression
of its own peculiar and distinctive nature, to get an idea into one's head, which would stick,
of its individuality, and, if I may say so, of its personal features and idiosyncrasies. Not
until more than three months had been spent in the faithful execution of this plan was the
problem studied from any other view than that refuges were to be created of considerable size,
and that their lines of demarcation would naturally be formed by something easily grasped by
the eye, either rivers or the crests of mountain ranges.

After the lapse of that time, looking at this from every point of view, it became my opinion
that the ideal solution was the creation of many small refuges rather than the establishment
of a few large ones. To be effective, the size of these ranges should not be less than ten
miles square; if slightly larger, so much the better. Should, therefore, these be of about
four townships each, the best results would be obtained. The bill for the creation of Game
Refuges after it had passed the Senate, and as amended by the Committee on Public Lands of
the House of Representatives, in the spring of 1903, read:

"The President of the United States is hereby authorized to designate such areas in the public
Forest Reserves, not exceeding one in each State or Territory, as should, in his opinion, be
set aside for the protection of game animals, birds, and fish, and be recognized as a breeding
place therefor."

If this bill were to become law in its present form, the object for which it was created would
be largely defeated. One may easily overlook the fact that an area corresponding to that of
California would, on the Atlantic Coast, extend from Newport, R. I., to Charleston, S. C. It
embraces communities and interests in many respects as widely separated as those of New England
and the Atlantic Southern States. Were one Game Refuge only to be created in the State of California,
unless it included practically the whole of the reserves south of Tehachapi, protection would
not be afforded to the different species of large a constantly increasing population, and an
ever-increasing interest in big-game hunting. The designation of one Game Refuge in the Sierra
Reserve would practically not reduce the slaughter of deer in this whole vast region of southern
California. Were the single Game Refuge, which might under the law be designated, to be placed
in southern California, even although it embraced the entire area of the seven southern reserves,
it would not aid to any great extent in preventing the extinction of game in the region of
the Sierra Reserve, of the Stanislaus Reserve, or of the great reserves which are doubtless
soon to be created in the northern half of the State. A bill so conceived would not fulfill
the purpose of its creation.

There are just as cogent reasons of a positive nature why many small refuges are preferable
to a few large ones. It is said that in the vicinity of George Vanderbilt's game preserves
at Biltmore, North Carolina, deer, when started by dogs even fifteen or twenty miles away,
will seek shelter within the limits of that protected forest, knowing perfectly well that once
within its bounds they will not be disturbed. The same may be observed in the vicinity of the
Yellowstone National Park; the bears, for instance, a canny folk, and shrewd to read the signs
of the times, seem to be well aware that they are not to be disturbed near the hotels, and
they show themselves at such places without fear; at the same time that outside the Park (and
when the early snow is on the ground their tracks are often observed going both out and in)
these same beasts are very shy indeed. The hunter soon discovers that it is with the greatest
difficulty that one ever sees them at all outside of the bounds of the Park. Bears, as well
as deer, adapt themselves to the exigencies of the situation; the grizzly, since the white
man stole from him and the Indian the whole face of the earth, has become a night-ranging instead
of a diurnal creature. The deer, we may safely rest assured, makes quite as close a study of
humans as man does of the deer. It is a question of life and death with them that they should
understand him and his methods. Both the deer and the hunters would profit by the widest possible
distribution of these protected areas. Each section of the State is entitled to the benefit
to be derived from their presence in its vicinity. Moreover, and I believe that this is a consideration
of no slight moment, the creation of many small refuges, not too close together, would obviate
one great difficulty which threatens to wreck the entire scheme. There have appeared signs
of opposition in certain quarters to the creation in the various reserves of game refuges by
Federal power on the ground that this would be to surrender to the Government at Washington
authority which should be solely exercised by the State. In a certain sense it is the old issue
of State rights. Where this feeling exists it is adhered to with extraordinary tenacity, and
it is as catching as the measles; just so soon as one State takes this stand, another is liable
to raise the same issue. They are jealous of any power except their own which would close from
hunting to their citizens considerable portions of the forest reserves within the confines
of the State. Their claim is that by an abuse of such delegated power, a President of the United
States might, if so inclined, shut out the citizens from hunting at all in the forest reserves
of their own State. This argument is not an easy one to wave aside. Should, however, the size
of the individual refuges be limited to four townships each, and the minimum distance between
such refuges be defined, one grave objection to these refuges would be overcome, and the citizens
of the various States would cooperate with Federal authority to accomplish that which the sentiment
at home in many instances is not at present sufficiently enlightened to demand, and which by
reason of party differences the State legislatures are powerless to effect.

Having elaborated in one's mind the idea that a Game Refuge, in order to be a success, should
be about ten or twelve miles square, the question arises, how near are these to be placed to
one another? If they are established at the beginning, not less than twenty or twenty-five
miles from each other, it seems to me that the exigencies of the situation would be met. It
is not our purpose, in creating them, seriously to interfere with the privileges of hunters
adjoining the forests where they are established. On the contrary, all that is wished is to
preserve the present number of the deer, or to allow them slightly to increase. The system
of game refuges of the size indicated, would, I believe, accomplish this end. In all probability,
at the beginning of the open season, the deer would be distributed with a considerable degree
of uniformity throughout the reserve, outside of the game refuges as well as within. They would
go, of course, where the food and conditions suited them. As the hunting season opened, and
the game, in a double sense, become more lively, the deer would naturally seek shelter where
they could find it. Since this, with them, would be a question literally of vital interest,
their education would progress rapidly, particularly that of the wary old bucks, experienced
in danger which they had survived in the past simply because their bump of caution was well
developed, these would soon realize that they were safe within the bounds of a certain tract--that
there the sound of the rifle was never heard, that there far less frequently they ran across
the hateful scent of their enemies, and for some mysterious reason were left to their own devices.
When once this idea has found firm lodgment in the head of an astute deer, the very first thing
that he will do will be to get into an asylum of this sort, and to stay there; if he has any
business to transact beyond its boundaries, exactly as an Indian would do in similar circumstances,
he will delegate the same to a young buck who is on his promotion, and has his reputation to
make, and who possesses the untarnished courage of ignorance and youth. It seems to me that
this system of small refuges would have the merit of fairness both to the hunters and to the
deer, and it is respectfully submitted to the legislators of the United States. This may seem
one of the simplest of solutions, and hardly worth a summer's cruise to discover. It may prove
that this is not the first occasion when the simplest solution is the best. Because a thing
is simple it is not always the case, however, that it finds the most ready acceptance. If,
in my humble capacity of public service, I am the indirect means of this being accomplished,
I shall feel that my summer's work was not altogether in vain.

Alden Sampson.

Temiskaming Moose

The accompanying photographs of moose were taken about the middle of July, 1902, on the Montreal
river, which flows from the Ontario side into Lake Temiskaming.

A number of snap shots were obtained during the three days' stay in this vicinity, but the
others were at longer range and the animals appear very small in the negative.

As is well known, during the hot summer months the moose are often to be found feeding on the
lily pads or cooling themselves in the water, being driven from the bush where there are heat,
mosquitoes and flies.

Not having been shot at nor hunted, all the moose at this time seemed rather easy to approach.
Two of these pictures are of one bull, and the other two of one cow, the two animals taken
on different occasions. I got three snaps of each before they were too far away. When first
sighted, each was standing nibbling at the lily pads, and the final spurt in the canoe was
made in each case while the animal stood with head clear under the water, feeding at the bottom.
The distance of each of the first photographs taken was from 45 to 55 feet.

Paul J. Dashiell.

Two Trophies from India

In the early part of March, 1898, my friend, Mr. E. Townsend Irvin, and I arrived at the bungalow
of Mr. Younghusband, who was Commissioner of the Province of Raipur, in Central India. Mr.
Younghusband very kindly gave us a letter to his neighbor, the Rajah of Kahrigur, who furnished
us with shikaris, beaters, bullock carts, two ponies and an elephant. We had varied success
the first three weeks, killing a bear, several nilghai, wild boar and deer.

One afternoon our beaters stationed themselves on three sides of a rocky hill and my friend
and I were placed at the open end some two hundred yards apart. The beaters had hardly begun
to beat their tom toms and yell, when a roar came from the brow of the hill, and presently
a large tiger came out from some bushes at the foot. He came cantering along in a clumsy fashion
over an open space, affording us an excellent shot, and when he was broadside on we both fired,
breaking his back. He could not move his hind legs, but stood up on his front paws. Approaching
closer, we shot him in a vital spot.

The natives consider the death of a tiger cause for general rejoicing, and forming a triumphal
procession amid a turmoil such as only Indian beaters can make, they carried the dead tiger
to camp.

One morning word was brought to our camp, at a place called Bernara, that a tiger had killed
a buffalo, some seven miles away. The natives had built a bamboo platform, called machan, in
a tree by the kill, and we stationed ourselves on this in the late afternoon. Contrary to custom,
the tiger did not come back to his kill until after the sun had set. The night was cloudy and
very dark, and although several times we distinctly heard the tiger eating the buffalo, we
could not see it. At about midnight we were extremely stiff, and not hearing any sound, we
returned to our temporary camp; but on the advice of an old shikari I returned with him to
the machan to wait until daylight. Being tired, I fell asleep, but an hour before dawn the
Hindu woke me, as the clouds had cleared away and the moon was shining brightly. I heard a
munching sound, and could dimly discern a yellow form by the buffalo, and taking a long aim
I fired both barrels of my rifle. I heard nothing except the scuttling off of the hyenas and
jackals that had been attracted by the dead buffalo, so I slept again until daylight, when,
to my surprise, I saw a dead leopard by the buffalo. He had come to the kill after the tiger
had finished his meal.

John H. Prentice.

Big-Game Refuges

Since the inception of the Boone and Crockett Club its plans and purposes have changed not
a little. Originally organized for social purposes, for the encouragement of big-game hunting,
and the procuring of the most effective weapons with which to secure the game, it has, little
by little, come to be devoted to the broader object of benefiting this and succeeding generations
by preserving a stock of large game. It is still made up of enthusiastic riflemen, and their
love of the chase has not abated. But, since the Club's formation, an astonishing change has
come over natural conditions in the United States--a change which, fifteen or twenty years
ago, could not have been foreseen. The extraordinary development of the whole Western country,
with the inevitable contraction of the range of all big game, and the absolute reduction in
the numbers of the game consequent on its destruction by skin hunters, head hunters and tooth
hunters, has obliged the Boone and Crockett Club, in absolute self-defense, and in the hope
that its efforts may save some of the species threatened with extinction, to turn its attention
more and more to game protection.

The Club was established in 1888. The buffalo had already been swept away. Since that date
two species of elk have practically disappeared from the land, one being still represented
by a few individuals which for some years have been preserved from destruction by a California
cattle company; the other, found only in the Southwest, in territory now included within the
Black Mesa forest reservation, may be, perhaps, without a single living representative. Over
a vast extent of the territory which the antelope once inhabited, it has ceased to exist; and
so speedy and so wholesale has been its disappearance that most of the Western States, slow
as they always are to interfere with the privileges of their citizens to kill and destroy at
will, have passed laws either wholly protecting it or, at least, limiting the number to be
killed in a season to one, two or three. In 1888 no one could have conceived that the diminution
of the native large game of America would be what it has proved to be within the past fifteen
years.

That the game stock may re-establish itself in certain localities, the Club has advocated the
establishment in the various forest reserves of game refuges, where absolutely no hunting shall
be permitted.

Through the influence of William Hallett Phillips, a deceased member of the Club, a few lines
inserted in an act passed by Congress March 3, 1891, permitted the establishment of forest
reserves, and Hon. John W. Noble, then Secretary of the Interior, at once recommended the application
of the law to a number of forest tracts, which were forthwith set aside by Presidential proclamation.
Since then, more and more forest reserves have been created, and, thanks to the wisdom and
courage of the Chief Magistrates of the Nation within the past twelve years, we now have more
than sixty millions of acres of such reservations. These consist largely of rough, timbered
mountain lands, unfit for cultivation or settlement. They are of enormous value to the arid
West, as affording an unfailing water supply to much of that region, and in a less degree they
are valuable as timber reserves, from which hereafter may be harvested crops which will greatly
benefit the country adjacent to them.

In the first volume of the Boone and Crockett Club Books, it was said: "In these reservations
is to be found to-day every species of large game known to the United States, and the proper
protection of the reservations means the perpetuating in full supply of all these indigenous
mammals. If this care is provided, no species of American large game need ever become absolutely
extinct; and intelligent effort for game protection may well be directed toward securing, through
national legislation, the policing of forest preserves by timber and game wardens."--American
Big Game Hunting, p. 330.

When these lines were written, Congressional action in this direction was hoped for at an early
day; but, except in the case of the Yellowstone National Park, such action has not been taken.
Meantime, hunting in these forest reserves has gone on. In some of them game has been almost
exterminated. Two little bunches of buffalo which then had their range within the reserves
have been swept out of existence.

It is obvious that effectively to protect the big game at large there must be localities where
hunting shall be absolutely forbidden. That any species of big game will rapidly increase if
absolutely protected is perfectly well known; and in the Yellowstone Park we have ever before
us an object lesson, which shows precisely what effective protection of game can do.

It is little more than twenty years since the first efforts were made to prevent the killing
of game within that National Reservation, and only about ten years since Congress provided
an effective method for preventing such killing. He must be dull indeed who does not realize
what that game refuge has done for a great territory, and of how much actual money value its
protection has been to the adjoining States of Montana and Idaho, and especially of Wyoming.
The visit of President Roosevelt to the National Park last spring made these conditions plain
to the whole nation. At that time every newspaper in the land gave long accounts of what the
President saw and did there, and told of the hordes of game that he viewed and counted. He
saw nothing that he had not before known of, nothing that was not well known to all the members
of the Boone and Crockett Club; but it was largely through the President's visit, and the accounts
of what he saw in the Yellowstone Park, that the public has come to know what rigid protection
can do and has done for our great game.

Since such a refuge can bring about such results, it is high time that we had more of these
refuges, in order that like results may follow in different sections of the West, and for different
species of wild game; as well for the benefit of other localities and their residents, as for
that wider public which will hereafter visit them in ever increasing numbers.

A bill introduced at the last session of Congress authorized the President, when in his judgment
it should seem desirable, to set aside portions of forest reserves as game refuges, where no
hunting should be allowed. The bill passed the Senate, but failed in the House, largely through
lack of time, yet some opposition was manifested to it by members of Congress from the States
in which the forest reserves are located, who seemed to feel that such a law would in some
way abridge the rights and privileges of their constituents. This is a narrow view, and one
not justified by the experience of persons dwelling in the vicinity of the Yellowstone National
Park.

If such members of Congress will consider, for example, the effect on the State of Wyoming,
of the protection of the Yellowstone Park, it seems impossible to believe that they will oppose
the measure. Each non-resident sportsman going into Wyoming to hunt the game--much of which
spends the summer in the Yellowstone Park, and each autumn overflows into the adjacent territory--pays
to the State the sum of forty dollars, and is obliged by law to hire a guide, for whose license
he must pay ten dollars additional; besides that, he hires guides, saddle and pack animals,
pays railroad and stage fare, and purchases provisions to last him for his hunt. In other words,
at a modest calculation, each man who spends from two weeks to a month hunting in Wyoming pays
to the State and its citizens not less than one hundred and fifty dollars. Statistics as to
the number of hunters who visit Wyoming are not accessible; but if we assume that they are
only two hundred in number, this means an actual contribution to the State of thirty thousand
dollars in cash. Besides this, the protection of the game in such a refuge insures a never-failing
supply of meat to the settlers living in the adjacent country, and offers them work for themselves
and their horses at a time when, ranch work for the season being over, they have no paying
occupation.

The value of a few skins taken by local hunters is very inconsiderable when compared with such
a substantial inflow of actual cash to the State and the residents of the territory neighboring
to such a refuge. Moreover, it must be remembered that, failing to put in operation some plan
of this kind, which shall absolutely protect the game and enable it to re-establish itself,
the supply of meat and skins, now naturally enough regarded as their own peculiar possession
by the settlers living where such a refuge might be established, will inevitably grow less
and less as time goes on; and, as it grows less, the contributions to State and local resources
from the non-resident tax will also grow less. Thirty years ago the buffalo skinner declared
that the millions of buffalo could never be exterminated; yet the buffalo disappeared, and
after them one species of big game after another vanished over much of the country. The future
can be judged only by the past. Thirty years ago there were elk all over the plains, from the
Missouri River westward to the Rocky Mountains; now there are no elk on the plains, and, except
in winter, when driven down from their summer range by the snows, they are found only in the
timbered mountains. What has been so thoroughly accomplished will be sure to continue; and,
unless the suggested refuges shall be established, there will soon be no game to protect--a
real loss to the country.

It has long been customary for Western men of a certain type to say that Eastern sportsmen
are trying to protect the game in order that they themselves may kill it, the implication being
that they wish to take it away from those living near it, and who presumably have the greatest
right to it. Talk of this kind has no foundation in fact, as is shown by the laws passed by
the Western States, which often demand heavy license fees from non-residents, and hedge about
their hunting with other restrictions. Many Eastern sportsmen desire to preserve the game,
not especially that they themselves may kill it, but that it shall be preserved; if they desire
to kill this game they must and do comply with the laws established by the different States,
and pay the license fees.

A fundamental reason for the protection of game, and so for the establishment of such game
refuges, was given by President Roosevelt in a speech made to the Club in the winter of 1903,
when he expressed the opinion that it was the duty of the Government to establish these refuges
and preserves for the benefit of the poor man, the man in moderate circumstances. The very
rich, who are able to buy land, may establish and care for preserves of their own, but this
is beyond the means of the man of moderate means; and, unless the State and Federal Governments
establish such reservations, a time is at hand when the poor man will have no place to go where
he can find game to hunt. The establishment of such refuges is for the benefit of the whole
public--not for any class--and is therefore a thoroughly democratic proposition.

There is no question as to the right of Congress to enact laws governing the killing of game
on the public domain, or within a forest reserve where this domain lies within the boundaries
of a Territory. Moreover, it has been determined by the courts and otherwise that within a
State the Federal Government has, on a forest reserve, all the rights of an individual proprietor,
"supplemented with the power to make and enforce its own laws for the assertion of those rights,
and for the disposal and full and complete management, control and protection of its lands."

In January, 1902, the Hon. John F. Lacey, of Iowa, a member of this Club, whose efforts in
behalf of game protection are generally recognized, and whose name is attached to the well-known
Lacey Law, received from Attorney-General Knox an opinion indicating that there is reasonable
ground for the view that the Government may legislate for the protection of game on the forest
reserves, whether these forest reserves lie within the Territories or within the States. From
this opinion the following paragraphs are taken:

"While Congress certainly may by law prohibit and punish the entry upon or use of any part
of those forest reserves for the purpose of the killing, capture or pursuit of game, this would
not be sufficient. There are many persons now on those reserves by authority of law, and people
are expressly authorized to go there, and it would be necessary to go further and to prohibit
the killing, capture or pursuit of game, even though the entry upon the reserve is not for
that purpose. But, the right to forbid intrusion for the purpose of killing, per se, and without
reference to any trespass on the property, is another. The first may be forbidden as a trespass
and for the protection of the property; but when a person is lawfully there and not a trespasser
or intruder, the question is different.

"But I am decidedly of opinion that Congress may forbid and punish the killing of game on these
reserves, no matter that the slayer is lawfully there and is not a trespasser. If Congress
may prohibit the use of these reserves for any purpose, it may for another; and while Congress
permits persons to be there upon and use them for various purposes, it may fix limits to such
use and occupation, and prescribe the purpose and objects for which they shall not be used,
as for the killing, capture or pursuit of specified kinds of game. Generally, any private owner
may forbid, upon his own land, any act that he chooses, although the act may be lawful in itself;
and certainly Congress, invested also with legislative power, may do the same thing, just as
it may prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors, though such sale is otherwise lawful.

"After considerable attention to the whole subject, I have no hesitation in expressing my opinion
that Congress has ample power to forbid and punish any and all kinds of trespass, upon or injury
to, the forest reserves, including the trespass of entering upon or using them for the killing,
capture or pursuit of game.

"The exercise of these powers would not conflict with any State authority. Most of the States
have laws forbidding the killing, capture or pursuit of different kinds of game during specified
portions of the year. This makes such killing, etc., lawful at other times, but only lawful
because not made unlawful. And it is lawful only when the State has power to make it lawful,
by either implication or direct enactment. But, except in those cases already referred to,
such as eminent domain, service of process, etc., no State has power to authorize or make lawful
a trespass upon private property. So that, though Congress should prohibit such killing, etc.,
upon its own lands, at all seasons of the year, this would not conflict with any State authority
or control. That the preservation of game is part of the public policy of those States, and
for the benefit of their own people, is shown by their own legislation, and they cannot complain
if Congress upon its own lands goes even further in that direction than the State, so long
as the open season of the State law is not interfered with in any place where such law is paramount.

"It has always been the policy of the Government to invite and induce the purchase and settlement
of its public lands; and as the existence of game thereon and in their localities adds to the
desirability of the lands, and is a well-known inducement to their purchase, it may well be
considered whether, for this purpose alone, and without reference to the protection of the
lands from trespass, Congress may not, on its own lands, prohibit the killing of such game."

In this opinion the Attorney-General further calls attention to the difficulties of enforcing
the State law, and suggests that it might be well to give marshals and their deputies, and
the superintendents, supervisors, rangers, and other persons charged with the protection of
these forest reserves, power on the public lands, in certain cases approaching "hot pursuit,"
to arrest without warrant. All who are familiar with the conditions in the more sparsely settled
States will recognize the importance of some such provision. A matter of equal importance,
though as yet not generally recognized, is that of providing funds for the expenses of forest
officers making arrests. It is often the fact that no justice of the peace resides within fifty
or a hundred miles of the place where the violation of the law occurs. The ranger making the
arrest is obliged to transport his prisoner for this distance, and to provide him with transportation,
food and lodging during the journey and during the time that he may be obliged to wait before
bringing the prisoner arrested before a proper court. This may often amount to more than the
penalty, even if the officer making the arrest secures a conviction; but, on the other hand,
the individual arrested may not be able to pay his fine, and may have to go to jail. In this
case the officer making the arrest is out of pocket just so much. Under such circumstances,
it is evident that few officers can afford to take the risk of losing this time and money.

In most States of the Union there exist considerable tracts of land, mountainous, or at least
barren and unfit for cultivation. Legislation should be had in each State establishing public
parks which might well enough be stocked with game, which should there be absolutely protected.
Some efforts in this direction have been made, notably Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania
and Minnesota. In many of the New England States there are tracts absolutely barren, unoccupied
and often bordered by abandoned farms, which could be purchased by the State for a very modest
compensation; and it is well worth the while of the Boone and Crockett Club to endeavor by
all means in its power to secure the establishment in the various States of parks which might
be breeding centers for game, great and small, on the same plan as the proposed refuges hoped
for within the forest reservations. Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and practically all the
States to the west of these, possess such areas of unoccupied land, which might wisely be acquired
by the State and devoted to such excellent purposes. In Montana there is a long stretch of
the Missouri River, with a narrow, shifting bottom, bordered on either side by miles of bad-lands,
which would serve as such a State park. Settlers on this stretch of river are few in number,
for the bottoms are not wide enough to harbor many homes, and, being constantly cut out by
the changes of the river's course, are so unstable as to be of little value as farming lands.
On the other hand, the new bottoms constantly formed are soon thickly covered by willow brush,
while the extensive bad-lands on either side the stream furnish an admirable refuge for deer,
antelope, mountain sheep and bear, with which the country is already stocked, and were in old
times a great haunt for elk, which might easily be reintroduced there.

There is a tendency in this country to avoid trouble, and to do those things which can be done
most easily. From this it results that efforts are constantly being made to introduce into
regions from which game has been exterminated various species of foreign game, which can be
had, more or less domesticated, from the preserves of Europe. Thus red deer have been introduced
in the Adirondack region, and it has been suggested that chamois might be brought from Europe
and turned loose in certain localities in the United States, and there increase and furnish
shooting. To many men it seems less trouble to contribute money for such a purpose as this
than to buckle down and manufacture public sentiment in behalf of the protection of native
game. This is a great mistake. From observations made in certain familiar localities, we know
definitely that, provided there is a breeding stock, our native game, with absolute protection,
will re-establish itself in an astonishingly short period of time. It would be far better for
us to concentrate our efforts to renew the supply of our native game rather than to collect
subscriptions to bring to America foreign game, which may or may not do well here, and may
or may not furnish sport if it shall do well.

Forest Reserves of North America

In the United States something over 100,000 square miles of the public domain has been set
aside and reserved from settlement for economic purposes. This vast area includes reservations
of four different kinds: First, National Forest Reserves, aggregating some 63,000,000 acres,
for the conservation of the water supply of the arid and semi-arid West; second, National Parks,
of which there are seventeen, for the purpose of preserving untouched places of natural grandeur
and interest; third, State Parks, for places of recreation and for conserving the water supply;
and fourth, military wood and timber reservations, to provide Government fuel or other timber.
Most military wood reserves were originally established in connection with old forts.

The forest reservations, as they are by far the largest, are also much the most important of
these reserved areas.

Perhaps three-quarters of the population of the United States do not know that over nearly
one-half of the national territory within the United States the rainfall is so slight or so
unevenly distributed that agriculture cannot be carried on except by means of irrigation. This
irrigation consists of taking water out of the streams and conducting it by means of ditches
which have a very gentle slope over the land which it is proposed to irrigate. From the original
ditch, smaller ditches are taken out, running nearly parallel with each other, and from these
laterals other ditches, still smaller, and the seepage from all these moistens a considerable
area on which crops may be grown. This, very roughly, is irrigation, a subject of incalculable
interest to the dwellers in the dry West.

