*Special Care after Certain Diseases.*—Certain diseases, as measles, diphtheria, scarlet fever,
and typhoid fever, sometimes have the effect of weakening the kidneys (and other vital organs)
and of starting disease in them. When this occurs it is usually the result of exposure or of
over-exertion while the body is in a weakened condition. Severe chilling at such a time, by
driving blood from the surface to the parts within, often causes inflammation of the kidneys.
On recovering from any wasting disease one should exercise great caution both in resuming his
regular work and in exposing his body to wet or cold.

*Misunderstood Symptoms.*—Pains in the small of the back, an increase in the secretions of
the kidneys, and a sediment in the urine very naturally suggest some disorder of the kidneys.
It is a fact, however, that these symptoms have little or no relation to the state of the kidneys
and may occur when the kidneys are in a perfectly healthy condition. The kidneys are not located
in the small of the back, but above this place, so that pains in this region are evidently
not from the kidneys, while the increase in the flow of the urine may arise from a number of
causes, one of which is an increase of certain waste products passed into the blood. The symptoms
referred to are frequently the results of nervous exhaustion, resulting from overstudy, worry,
eye strain, or some other condition that overtaxes the nervous system. When this is the case,
relief is obtained through resting the nerves. Actual disease of the kidneys can only be determined
through a chemical and microscopic examination of the urine. To resort to some patent medicine
for kidney trouble without knowing that such trouble exists, as is sometimes done, is both
foolish and unhygienic.

*Alcoholic Beverages and the Elimination of Waste.*—Causing as it does such serious diseases
as cirrhosis of the liver and Bright’s disease of the kidneys (footnote, page 210), alcohol
will greatly interfere in this way with the elimination of waste. There is also evidence to
the effect that it interferes with waste elimination before the stage is reached of causing
disease of these organs. Researches have shown that alcohol increases the amount of uric acid
in the body and decreases the amount of urea found in the urine. The conclusion to be drawn
is that alcohol interferes in some way with the change of the harmful uric acid into the comparatively
harmless urea—an interference which in some instances results in great harm. It has also been
shown that malted liquors, such as beer and ale, contain substances which, like the caffein
of tea and coffee (page 167), are readily converted into uric acid.(76) Wines contain acids
which may also act injuriously. The harm which such substances do is, of course, additional
to that caused by the alcohol.

*Summary.*—As a result of the oxidations and other changes at the cells, substances are produced
that can no longer serve a purpose in the body. They are of the nature of waste, and their
continuous removal from the body is as necessary to the maintenance of life as the introduction
of food and oxygen. The organs whose work it is to remove the waste, excepting the lungs, are
glands; and the material which they remove are of the nature of secretions. From the cells,
the waste passes through the lymph in the blood. From the blood it is separated by the excretory
organs and passed to the exterior of the body.

*Exercises.*—1. What general purposes are served by the glands in the body?

2. What are the parts common to all glands? What purpose is served by each of these parts?

3. How do tubular glands differ in structure from saccular glands? What is a racemose gland?
Why so called?

4. Describe the nature of the secretory process.

