He was good about one thing, though: he just about took the night trick off my hands, so that
I begun catchin' up with my sleep again. He used to load himself down with firearms an' he
and Fido would hunt Chinamen two or three hours every night, but he never had no luck. Several
times the neighbors rode by an' they told us that the' was a gang breakin' into houses an'
stealin', but they couldn't seem to get any track of 'em.

One mornin' I was tryin' to find out what made the sewin' machine drop stitches, when he came
runnin' in with his eyes stickin' out like a toad's.

"He's been sleepin' in the barn," sez he.

"Who--the horse?" sez I, thinkin' it was one of his jokes.

"No," sez he, "the Chinaman."

Well, I looked at him, an' he explained how his suspicions had been aroused, an' that he had
made a practice of stirrin' up the straw each evenin', an' then each mornin' would find the
print of a man's body but that he had put tar on the ladder without gettin' any evidence.

I pricked up my ears at this, an' turned the machine out on pasture for a while. We went to
the barn, an' there, sure enough, was the print of a man's body. Then we adjourned to the shade
to hatch up a sub-tile plot. We smoked an' hatched until it was time for me to go in an' help
with dinner. We was both thinkin' hard, an' finally I sez, "Now, Ches, the craftiest thing
for us to do, is for me to cover up in the straw, an' when he lays down, explode my gun against
his ribs." He had pestered me a mighty sight, an' I never was partial to 'em nohow. Ches never
made any reply; he was what you call engrossed. All of a sudden he leaps to his feet an' slaps
me on the shoulder.

"Happy," sez he, "are ya game?"

I looked at him a while, an' then I sez gently, "Now look here, Mister, I ain't no hero, an'
if you happen to have any more college festivities to introduce, why I'll own up to a yellow
streak a foot wide; but I don't recollect just what day it was that any livin' man accused
me of bein' down-right pale-blooded. If you got any hair-raisin' projec' in your head, don't
bother to break it gentle. Just tell it right out, an' I'll lean up against this tree, so as
not to hurt myself should I faint."

"Well," sez he, chucklin' like a prairie-dog. "I propose we paint up the goat with phosphorus,
put him in the barn, an' me an' you get up in the trees to watch."

"What's the goat done?" sez I.

"The goat ain't done nothin'," sez he, "but he'll scare the Chink to death, an' when he comes
out we can shoot him in the leg or something."

"No," sez I, "it won't work. The Chink knows the goat better'n we do; an' it'll be the goat
that'll come out an' get shot in the leg, while the Chink'll get away."

"Oh, rats!" sez Ches. "He won't even know it's a goat. Can't you see that?"

"Why won't he know it's a goat?" I sez, gettin' impatient. "A Chinaman's got just as much sense
as a human being, an' you'll find it out sometime too."

"Yes, but didn't I tell you I was goin' to paint him with phosphorus?" sez Ches, all het up.

"I don't know what phosphorus is," sez I, "but you'll have to do a master job of painting to
make that William goat look like a pinchin'-bug. Still, this is your projec' an' if you want
to play the wheel one whirl, why I'll help stick up the stake."

I was busy about the house all afternoon, an' Ches kept himself penned up in his labatory.
He had brought out a lot of stuff in cans an' bottles, had turned the woodshed into what he
called a labatory, an' spent a good part of his time there, mixin' up peculiar stenches. They
used to smell something frightful; but they only exploded about half the time. No matter what
they did do, he always claimed that it was just exactly what he intended; but his hands was
colored up constant like a fried egg, an' I never took much joy in loafin' about the woodshed.

That night as soon as I had my dishes washed an' the kitchen red up, we caught the goat an'
took him to the barn. He was considerable of a goat, this one was, with horns on him a foot
long an' a fright of a temper. He was one o' these fellers what is always out o' humor, only
sometimes farther out than common. Still, me with my rope, an' Ches with his football habits,
was one too many for Mr. Goat; an' we soon had him up in the haymow. Then I passed up the can
o' paint, an' took a stroll around to see that no one had been givin' us the look-over.

The can o' paint did have a pretty fierce smell, but I didn't put much faith in it. I'd been
in opium joints, an' I knew that a Chinaman would FATTEN on a smell 'at would suffocate a goat;
an' when it comes to vigorous an' able-bodied odors, a billy-goat ain't no tenderfoot himself.

After a time Ches came down with a heavenly smile on his face, so I knew the goat hadn't smothered
yet; an' then we went into the house an' handled the lights in just the regular way; but when
the time came, instead of goin' to bed, we went out an' cooned up a big tree, about on a level
with the mow-window. Ches had nailed up a kind of platform, which was rickety enough to keep
a sensible man on the watch; but first I knew he was wakin' me up. He had his hand over my
mouth, an' whispered, "He's in the yard now."

I ain't one o' them what yawns an' grunts an' stretches; I wake up like an antelope--all in
a bunch.

The' was a little rustlin' back in some bushes over by the fence. Then, after a pause, we heard
a queer scratchin' noise. He was climbin' up a tree at the back o' the barn so as to get in
through a scuttle in the roof. 'T was gettin' interestin', an' I got out my guns an' held 'em
ready. Ches had a whole arsenal spread out around him, an' I could easy see a week's work ahead
of me, a-policin' up the premises.

The sky was just literally soggy with stars, an' you could see the outline of things purty
plain. It was one o' those nights when everything is so still that you hear with the inside
of your head, an' any little real noise fair puts a crimp in ya.

We was leanin' on the rail of Ches's platform, when all of a sudden we hear the greatest jabberin'
ever a human man heard. A goat an' a Chinaman speaks the same langwidge, an' goodness only
knows what Billy Buck was a-tellin' him but the tone was insistent an' the effect was most
exhilaratin'. I had my ears stretched out to catch every sound--an' sounds wasn't nowise scarce
just then. Squeals an' groans, an' wrastlin' an' blows, kept a feller all keyed up, an' we
was bitin' our lips to keep from laughin'--an' then it happened!

The door o' that mow flew open as though it was struck by eleven engines, a dark form shot
out, followed by two more--an' then the devil, himself, poked his head out through that haymow
window. Talk about faces--Lord! I attended a ghost dance over in the Sioux country oncet; but
it was a Sunday-school picnic alongside the face that poked its way out of that door.

The' was rings of fire around the eyes, nose, an' mouth, the whiskers was one long waverin',
ghastly flame, an' the horns was two others. The' was a blue gritchety sort o' smoke curlin'
up around the face, an' my heart laid right down in its tracks an' rolled over on its back.
I only saw that face a second, but I can shut my eyes an' see it right now. Gosh!

I ain't much superstiticus, 'cept when I'm gamblin', but of course I know the' 's such things
as ghosts an' devils an' sich, an' I don't take no liberties with 'em. I screeched out, a "Great
Scott! what's that?" My hands shut up voluntary, both my guns went off in the air, the rail
broke, an' me an' Ches sort o' chuck-lucked to the ground. We didn't miss any limbs on the
way down, nor the guns didn't neither. Every time they bumped a limb, they went off, an' it
sounded like Custer's last stand.

We weren't hurt none, an' scrambled to our feet in a second. The' was an awful squawkin' goin'
on under the haymow window, an' that horrible, fire-faced devil seemed to be eatin' the heads
off the Chinamen. I got a better view of it this time, an' I see it was one o' the dragons
they worship. It made me feel a little better, 'cause I didn't see why he'd have any grudge
against a Christian. Still, I wasn't takin' no chances, so I grabbed Ches by the arm an' headed
for the kitchen--him stickin' his heels in the ground an' callin' me coward. I thought he had
lost his mind, so I didn't pay any heed to him.

We threw ourselves against the kitchen door, an' I hammered on it with my knuckles, while Ches
kicked me on the shins an' tried to get away. Finally Mrs. Cameron raised an upstairs window
an' began shootin' with her bean-blower. I've no idy what she was shootin' at; but she hit
me twice in the boot-leg, an' blame if it didn't sting like a whip.

Ches jerked loose while I was rubbin' the sore spot, an' as I glanced up I saw the three dark
forms comin' after us followed closer by the devil-dragon, his face fairly drippin' with liquid
fire. The whole bunch of 'em looked outrageous big, an' I felt about as massive an' forceful
as an angle-worm; but at that, I managed to open the celler door, an' tried to get Ches to
come in too. "Ches," I whispered, for I hadn't strength enough to yell, "Ches, come on in an'
save yourself;" but he never gave no heed. He just stood crouching over in the shadow while
they headed for him, devil-dragon an' all.

I wanted to crawl into the cellar alone, but I lacked just one grain of havin' moral courage
enough, so I stood still with my knees beatin' together, watchin' 'em come. My heart ached
to think that he was out of his head an' fairly throwin' himself away, an' then all of a sudden,
it flashed upon me that the blame fool was playin' football. On they charged like a stampeded
herd, a-screechin' like a run-away freight wagon with dry axles, while that pink-checked tenderfoot
stood in his tracks, as calm an' cool as the North Star, until they arrived at the proper distance,
an' then he sorted out the big one in the center an' dove for his legs.

They went up in the air, like a long-horn foolin' with the leg-throw for the first time, the
other two bumped into them, the fire-faced devil-dragon slipped through, caught me full in
the pantry, an' we all avalanched into the celler in one mixed up tangle. I can't describe
it to you. I saw a photograph oncet of the bottomless pit at a revival meeting, and this lay-out
was a card out of the same deck. I ain't stuck-up nor exclusive; but hang me if I ever want
to get into such a mixed crowd again. We bit an' kicked an' hammered each other till I felt
like quartz at a stamp-mill. The only light we had, came from the Chinese devil'-an' I 'd a
heap sooner had none.

Finally I got hold of two cues, an' it give me a logical purpose. I simply took a short hold
on those cues an' bumped the heads they belonged to, together, until that dragon caught sight
of me an' hit me a thump in the back that loosened all my teeth. Something began to make an
awful bawling sound, an' it scared the life out of me until I see the Chinese devil go up the
stairs leaving a trail of flame behind him; an' then I knew that one of our own Medicines had
arrived.

This was some the worst roar I ever heard. It would start in with a lot of foreign words an'
end up with Rah! Rah Rah! The voice sounded something like Chess; but when I called him he
didn't answer, an' I feared it was his spirit.

The' didn't seem to be any use in bumpin' my two heads together any more, so purty soon I dropped
'em, an' straightened up. The' wasn't a sound, an' it was enough sight scarier than the noise
had been. I looked around in the dark, an' the' was ghastly waverin' flames all over an' I
could see hideous faces grinnin' at me.

I scuttled out o' that cellar like a homin' rabbit, an' ran around to the side door. Mrs. Cameron
put her head out after a bit, an' when she found out who I was, she let her lantern down to
me on a string, an' I screwed up my courage an' went back to the cellar. I listened a moment,
an' it was quiet as a grave--it was too much like a grave to suit me. I needed the touch of
an old friend, so I went back an' hunted up one of my guns, loaded it, an' went down into that
cellar--an' I never want my nerves stretched no tighter than the' were right at that minute.
I see three Chinamen an' Ches stretched out in a heap, Ches still huggin' the big one he had
picked out first.

I carried the two of 'em upstairs still locked together, an' laid 'em on the porch. As I did
so, Ches opened his eyes an' smiled weakly, ail sez to me most beseechful, "Gi' me the ball,
gi' me the ball, an' let Hodge an' Roger throw me over the line. It's no use tryin' to buck
through." The doggone loon still thought the was playin' football, I don't reckon a railroad
wreck would give one o' them football players a single new sensation.

He jumps up after a minute, shakes himself, an' seems as good as new. I was for lettin' the
Chinks go, an' gettin' indoors; but not for him, so we ties 'em; but I ain't a mite easy in
my mind. I was still lookin' for old Mister Devil-Dragon to come chargin' back with his Fourth
o' July face, an' put an' everlastin' crimp in us. His man had a cut in the back of the head,
while my two was merely softened up a little; an' as soon as we got 'em in the kitchen an'
threw some water in their faces, they revived out of it an' began to jabber enough to give
a steam whistle the headache.

"I'd better go an' let my cousin know we're all right," sez Ches.

"Yes, we'll both go," sez I, quickly.

"You'd better stay an' keep guard," sez Ches.

"The door's locked an' they're tied," sez I.

We went together, an' Mrs. Cameron laughed an' wept an' made a great fuss. When we came back,
the Chinks were gone.

"I told you to stay on guard," yells Ches.

"Well, I'm mighty glad I didn't," sez I.

"What do you mean?" sez he.

"Can't you see what happened?" sez I. "Their blamed fire-faced dragon came back an' took 'em
off, an' if I'd been here, like as not, he'd have taken me too. He'd 'a' taken 'em down cellar;
but your Good Medicine came an' gave a shriek an' scared him away."

Ches stood an' looked at me. "If you are really crazy, I don't mind your talkin' this way;"
he sez finally, "but if you have a grain of sense left, tell me what you mean."

"Do you mean to tell me that you didn't see him?" I sez. "He had horns an' a long beard, an'
was about six feet high an' spouted fire, an'--"

"Do you mean the goat?" he snaps in.

"Goat!" I sez, gettin' mad. "Now don't get gay. The goat has tried to butt me fifty times since
I been here, an' I guess I know him by sight; but this thing--"

He see I was in earnest, took a match, wet it, an' held it in a dark corner. "The goat was
painted with that," sez he, an' I saw it all, an' I--well, I just natchly shriveled. I thought
it all over. "Well, then," sez I, "what was the thing that gave the spirit call in the cellar?"

"That was my college yell," sez Ches, an' he gave it again, an' gee, but it would 'a' made
an Injun's mouth water.

I was beginnin' to see that the' was a heap more in a college edication than I'd ever supposed.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE DIAMOND DOT AGAIN

Next day we searched the barn an' found her just soggy with stolen stuff. We started out the
news an' most of it was claimed up by the neighbors for a hundred miles around. They heroed
me an' Ches right consid'able; but we didn't tell 'em about the goat. It might put the Chinamen
wise, you see. They took up a purse of eighteen hundred dollars for us which had been offered
in rewards one place an' another, an' we felt purty tol'able contented.

But I was beginnin' to get lonesome, the same as I allus do when I've been in one o' these
quiet, stagnant places for a spell. I was fond o' Mrs. Cameron an' the baby an' the place an'
the cookin', an' I thought the world o' Ches; but the' was a constant tuggin' at my heart to
get back to the Diamond Dot, back to the big, free sweep o' plains, back to little Barbie.

I'd been soakin' away all Ches's stories an' ways, an' I knew she 'd be full as interested
in 'em as I was. I had had enough o' business too. I could easy see 'at I wasn't cut out for
a business man, but I generally managed to round up a little wealth one way or another. I knew
all along that I didn't really have a taste for business; it was just that fool talk o' Bill
Andrews that made me want to cut loose from the Diamond Dot. I'd made up my mind now on that
question, an' it was surprisin' how simple the answer was after I'd finally worked it out.
The answer was this: I had as good a right anywhere on earth as any one else did. I was some
company for Barbie at the Diamond Dot, an' it suited us both first rate. If it got on Bill
Andrews' nerves till he couldn't keep it under his breath, why I'd have to furnish him with
an excuse for movin'; but as for myself, I'd just stick around until things began to creak
a little.

When Mr. Cameron came back, he made a big fuss over me an' Ches--he was an' A1 sort of a man,
Cameron was--an' he wanted me to stay right along offerin' me big wages, which was a thing
that Mrs. Cameron had forgot all about, an' me too; but I didn't feel like stayin'; so I set
a date an' then it was settled. Besides, Ches would be goin' back to college again soon.

Cameron was a real estate broker in the East, but was beginnin' to study up on minin' propositions.
He knew all about Slocum's Luck, that is, he knew the' was such a mine, an' that they was still
lawin' over it; but when I asked him about ever havin' heard of a mine called the Creole Belle,
he shook his head an' said he never had. He hadn't heard of Jack Whitman, nor George Jordan,
nor even Sandy Fergoson; so I see the' wasn't any use in stayin' around there, an' while I
hated to part with 'em, I was glad when the time came for me to say good-bye.

They wanted to give some kind of a present when I left; but the only thing I'd accept of, was
a pair of chickens. I had got used to eatin' eggs whilst I was there, an' I knew 'at Barbie
would like 'em; so they put me up a rooster an' a hen in a basket, an' I rolled up my roll,
an' drove off to the depot with Ches. He was mighty sober when we got out of sight of the house,
an' after he did get to talkin' it was mostly of all the good times we had had, an' how he
wished I was goin' back with him, or else he was goin' on with me. I told him all about the
Diamond Dot, an' how to get to it, an' invited him out for a visit any time he could get away.
I didn't tell him much about Barbie; but I made him promise that if ever his Cousin found out
the facts about the Creole Belle mine, he'd let me know at once. I couldn't bring myself to
believe that Sandy Fergoson had been crazy, an' I was beginnin' to come to the conclusion that
the' must have been both a woman an' a mine mixed up--an' that's a combination to bowl over
the best of us.

Ches said he was so stuck on the West that he half believed he'd learn to be a minin' engineer
an' come out here an' live. He tried to get me to promise to come an' visit him, but I told
him that I ranged over the same territory mostly, an' wouldn't know how to act in the East;
but that if I ever did head in that direction, I'd sure look him 'up. He bought my ticket while
I was gettin' my roll out of the wagon, an' I couldn't make him take the money for it.

