"'Line up, Trombone!' shouted the keeper--I heard his stentorian roar above the din--'Come,
hurry along with the Bombardon; Ophicleide, you're too far in front. Keep it going, Clarinets.
Now then, all together! What are you up to, Cymbals? Let 'em have it!' And thus they came banging
and booming and blowing through the covert. The bassoon tripped into a thorn-bush, the big-drum
rolled over the trunk of a tree and smashed his instrument, the hautboy threw his at an escaping
rabbit, while the flute-man walked straight into a pool of water, and had to be pulled out
by the triangle. But the rest of them got through somehow with that infernal idiot of a conducting
keeper, still backing and twisting and waving like mad in the front. That was WHICHELLO'S idea
of beating his coverts. 'Combining æsthetic pleasure with sporting pursuits,' he called it.
Somehow we had managed to bring down a brace of pheasants, which, with three rabbits, made
up our total, out of a covert which ought to have yielded ten times as many.

"I daresay you won't believe this story, but it's true all the same. If you don't believe it,
write to WHICHELLO himself. I never saw anyone half so pleased as that fool was. He had given
up all his time to teaching his rustics music, with a view to this performance, and had shoved
in, as one of his keepers, a sporting third violin from the Drury Lane orchestra. They said
it was glorious, and congratulated one another all round, with as much enthusiasm as if they'd
repelled a foreign invasion. On the next beat they played the March in Scipio, and after that
came a Pot-Pourri of Popular Melodies, arranged by the keeper. They played a selection from
The Pirates of Penzance while we lunched, and took the big wood to the tunes of 'Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay'
and 'Up-rouse ye then, my merry, merry Men!' 'Rule Britannia' and 'Home, Sweet Home,' played
us back to the house. I never heard such a confounded Babel of brass and wood in all my life.
A German band in a country town couldn't come near it. Curiously enough, we most of us got
urgent letters by next morning's post, summoning us home at once to attend to business, or
to be present at the death-beds of relatives. I thought you'd like to hear this story, old
cock. If you like, you're very welcome to shove it in your shooting series. I've seen a lot
of rum goes in my life, but this was the rummest of the lot. And don't forget to let me have
a word or two about talking to one's host. I know what I thought of that maniac WHICHELLO,
but I shouldn't have liked to say that to him.

"Yours to a turn, A SPORTSMAN."

For the present I must leave this striking letter to the judgment of my readers. Space fails
me to deal with it adequately. On another occasion I may be able to set down some ideas on
the difficult subject suggested by my polite Correspondent.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE APPRECIATION OF GOLD.--"Why all this fuss?" writes a Correspondent. "Is there a difficulty
in finding persons who properly appreciate gold? If so, I, Sir, am not of that number. I will
be happy to receive from the Bank any quantity of sovereigns; and, further, I will undertake
to show and honestly express my appreciation of this generosity on the part of the Bank. Ah!
I should like to possess any number of those 'promises of May.'

"Yours, A MUNNIE GRUBBER."

'Twas the voice of the SPEAKER; one could hear him declaim just as Big Ben tolled four o'clock
this afternoon. House crowded in every part, throbbing with excitement; crowds everywhere.
In Centre Hall some vainly hoping for impossible places; others content to see the men go by
whose names they read in the papers. Outside Palace Yard multitude standing patiently for hours,
happy if only they saw the tip of Mr. G.'s hat as he drove in at the gate, or imagined the
buttons on the Squire of MALWOOD'S gaiters. Never, in recent times, such a rush on opening days.

And Colonel SAUNDERSON, comfortably seated on Front Bench below Gangway, in choice companionship
with Dr. TANNER, actually yawning!

"All very well for you, TOBY, dear boy," he said, responsive to my polite stare. "You come
down here leisurely in afternoon, and take your seat. I've been on war-path since before daybreak.
Knew the wild Irishmen meant to open proceedings of Session by appropriating our seats. Have
not served in Royal Irish Fusiliers for nothing. Session opened by Royal Commission at two
o'clock this afternoon. Thought if I arrived on spot at seven in morning would be in moderately
good time. Here before seven: place in utter darkness; found friendly policeman with bull's-eye
light; tightened my belt; cocked my pistol; requisitioned Bobby and his lantern. You should
have seen us groping our way into House; Bobby first, with bull's-eye lantern professionally
flashing to right and left, under seats, into dark corners. Made straight for my old corner-seat
below Gangway; something white gleaming on front bench; with supple turn of wrist Bobby brought
flambeau to bear upon it; found it was TANNER--TANNER, hatless, coatless, without even a waistcoat
on! You might have knocked me down with much less than bayonet-prod. 'Morning, Colonel,' says
he. 'Been here all night?' I gasped. 'Oh, no,' says he; 'had cup of coffee at stall by Westminster
Bridge, bought a few hats in the New Cut, and, you see, I've planted them out.' So he had,
by Gad! Every corner-seat taken, and he prone in JEMMY LOWTHER'S. 'Weren't enough o' them,'
TANNER said, with his sixpenny snigger; 'couldn't leave put our revered leaders, TIM HEALY
and O'BRIEN, you know. So just took off my coat, flopped it down for TIM, hung the waist-coast
on a knob, and there's WILLIAM O'BRIEN'S place secured for the night. Now, if you'd like a
seat, you'll find one above the Gangway; or if you want to come and sit by me, here you are.
I've got a necktie, a collar, and a pair of braces to spare; if you've any particular friends
in your mind, why, we'll get seats for them.' No knowing what a fellow like TANNER would do
in these circumstances. Even his trowsers not sacred. So made best of bad job, and here I am.
At least, better off than JEMMY LOWTHER, evicted without compensation for disturbance."

Conversation interrupted by loud cheer. Mr. G. marching with head erect, and swinging stride,
to take the Oath and his seat. Necessary by Standing Orders that two Members shall accompany
new Member on these occasions to certify identity and prevent guilty impersonation. It's a
wise child that knows his own father, but HERBERT, walking on one side of Premier, with MARJORIBANKS
on other, ready to testify. Clerk at table, thus assured all was right, administered Oath and
then conducted Premier up to SPEAKER, presenting the new Member.

"Mr. GLADSTONE, I presume," said SPEAKER, making a motion towards extending his hand.

"Yes, Sir," said the new Member, nervously.

"Dear me!" said the SPEAKER, now shaking hands. "I've often heard of you. I daresay you'll
soon get accustomed to the place, and will, I hope, be comfortable." Mr. G. bowed, and retired
to his seat. SPEAKER suffered succession of shocks as in same way were brought up and introduced
to him, SQUIRE OF MALWOOD, JOHN MORLEY, CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, the Count MUNDELLANI, GEORGE TREVELYAN,
The Boy ASQUITH, and quite a host of new acquaintances.

Business done.--New Members took their seats. Address moved.

Thursday Night.--Something like flash of old times to-night. Of course, it came from Irish
quarter, and it was SAUNDERSON who kindled the torch. Colonel presented himself early in sitting
on corner bench below Gangway. This apparently reverted to possession of JEMMY LOWTHER. He
lent it to Colonel for an hour, sitting on other side of him. How they secured the place is
a mystery, darkened by temporary disappearance of TANNER. "Where is TANNER?" Members ask, looking,
not without suspicion, on placid face and generally respectable appearance of JEMMY LOWTHER.
Last seen, not exactly in company of JEMMY and the Colonel, rather in conflict for the corner-seat.
LOWTHER has the seat; lends it to SAUNDERSON. But where is TANNER?

"Oh, he's all right," said LOWTHER, with forced smile, when JUSTIN MCCARTHY, with ill-feigned
indifference, inquired after the lamb missing from his fold. "Bad sixpence, you know; always
turns up," JEMMY added. But his merriment forced, and SAUNDERSON abruptly changed subject.

Evidently a case for SHERLOCK HOLMES; must place it in his hands.

Doubtless it was with object of diverting attention from a ghastly subject that SAUNDERSON
led up to row alluded to. In course of remarks on release of Gweedore prisoners, he alluded
to Father MCFADDEN as "a ruffian." Irish Members not used to language of that kind. Howled
in pained indignation; the Colonel, astonished at his own moderation, varied the phrase by
calling the respected P.P. "a murderous ruffian." Shouts of horror from compatriots closely
massed behind. TIM HEALY, in particular, boiling with indignation at use of language of this
character addressed to gentlemen from whom one had difference of opinion on public matters.
Nothing would content them short of absolute and immediate withdrawal. Colonel declined to
withdraw. Uproar rose in ungovernable fury. Every time Colonel opened his mouth to continue
his remarks, an Irish Member (so to speak) jumped down his throat.

Considerable proportion of Ministerial majority had disappeared in this fashion, when happy
thought occurred to JOHN DILLON. Hotly moved that SAUNDERSON "be no longer heard." Considering
he had not been heard for fully five minutes, this joke excellent. SPEAKER, however, wouldn't
see it. COLONEL trumped the card by moving Adjournment of Debate. Mr. G. interposed, adjured
SAUNDERSON to put end to scene by withdrawing expression objected to.

Colonel, hitherto obdurate, found irresistible the stately appeal from Premier. "Certainly,"
said he, ever ready to oblige; "I will withdraw the words 'murderous ruffian,' and substitute
the expression, excited politician." This accepted as perfectly satisfactory. Terms apparently
synonymous; but the latter, on the whole, less irritating to susceptible nerves. Irish members
round about fell on Colonel's neck; embraced him with tears; gently disengaging himself, he
proceeded uninterrupted to the end of his address.

"Capital title that," said GEORGE NEWNES, who always has eye to business. "Shall start a new
Weekly; lead off with serial Novel by Colonel SAUNDERSON, entitled The Murderous Ruffian; or,
the Excited Politician. Sure to take."

All very well, this cleverly conceived diversion. But where is Dr. TANNER? Business done.--Debate
on Address.

Friday Night.--Still harping on Ireland. Began with row round issue of Writ for South Meath.
ESMONDE, one of innumerable Whips present House possesses, says the business was his. "Then
why didn't you do it?" asked NOLAN. "As you didn't seem disposed to move, I do." Nationalists
want to get North Meath Election finished first; Parnellites don't. So ESMONDE is in no hurry
to move Writ, and Colonel NOLAN is. Pretty, in these circumstances to hear NOLAN with his indignant
inquiry, "Is the moving of Writs to be taken as an Election dodge?"

After Ireland, Uganda. SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE talked for hour and half. Later, rose to blandly
explain that this was only half his speech; rest will be delivered when he brings question
up again on Supplementary Vote. As Mr. G. says, this is fair notice, and every Member may determine
for himself whether he will forego a portion of the promised treat. Business done.--Talking.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Everyone knows Mr. AUSTIN DOBSON'S dainty verse. In Eighteenth Century Vignettes (CHATTO AND
WINDUS) everyone has an opportunity, which he will do well to seize, to enjoy his equally charming
prose. Mr. DOBSON is one of those enviable men who have time to read. He spends an appreciable
portion of his days and nights not only with ADDISON, but with STEELE, PRIOR, JOHNSON, GOLDSMITH,
and others, whom a generation that read newspapers and subscribe to MUDIE'S, know only by name.
Mr. DOBSON is so omnivorous, that he has read right through JONAS HANWAY'S Journal of Eight
Days' Journey from Portsmouth to Kingston-upon-Thames, the book which drew from JOHNSON the
genial remark that HANWAY "had acquired some reputation by travelling abroad, but lost it all
by travelling at home." A man that would read that, would read anything. Mr. DOBSON, happily,
survived it, living to write a paper in which, within the limit of a few pages, we become thoroughly
acquainted with JONAS, his travels in Persia, his discreet flirtations, his umbrella (the first
under which man ever walked in the streets of London), his suit of rich dark brown, lined with
ermine, his chapeau bras with gold button, his gold-hilted sword, and his three pairs of stockings.
JONAS always thought there was safety in numbers, whether odd or even. When he travelled, his
"Partie" consisted of Mrs. D. and Mrs. O. When he dedicated a book (which Mr. DOBSON found,
more than a hundred years later, in a second-hand book-shop in Holborn), he inscribed it to
the "Twin Sisters, Miss ELIZABETH & Miss CAROLINE GRIGG." When he took his walks abroad, he
wore three pairs of stockings. JONAS HANWAY, under Mr. DOBSON'S care, is unexpectedly delightful.
With the same magic touch he brings upon the stage STEELE, FIELDING, GOLDSMITH, GRAY, HOGARTH'S
SIGISMUNDA, and Dr. JOHNSON, who lives for us again in his garret in Gough Square. These Vignettes
should be framed in the private room of every man and woman who loves books.

(Signed), "Non obstat," BARON DE B.-W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Discovered in Drury Lane

     Near the new Baker Street Lodging House established by the County
     Council.

  I 'old it true wote'er befall;
    I feel it when things go most cross;
    Better to do a fi'penny doss,
  Than never do a doss at all!

       *       *       *       *       *

"WAITE FOR THE END."--On Friday last, at another Unemployed Meeting, a certain person, whose
name is never mentioned in ears polite, "found mischief still," as wrote the immortal Dr. WATTS,
"for idle hands to do," and set one WAITE, whether a light or heavy weight is not stated, and
one SULLIVAN, by the ears. It was a hand-to-hand fight, and WAITE was subsequently captured
and brought before the Magistrate. Mem. for WAITE, in the words of a recently popular song,
"Never hit a Man of the name of Sullivan."

       *       *       *       *       *

FALLEN FORTUNES.--Quoth The Observer of a certain celebrity, "The family to which he belongs
can trace an uninterrupted descent for a period of six centuries." What an awful "come-down"!
Quelle dégringolade!

       *       *       *       *       *

BETWEEN TWO GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.--"What do you think of CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN'S choice of an
assistant private secretary? Odd? eh?" "Not odd! Strange."

       *       *       *       *       *

PROVERB FOR MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT WHO WISH TO SECURE SEATS.--"Two Hats are better than one."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INFANT'S GUIDE TO KNOWLEDGE.

CONCERNING CASH.

Question. What is cash?

Answer. Cash may be described as comfort in the concrete.

Q. Is it not sometimes called "the root of all evil"?

A. Yes, by those who do not possess it.

Q. Is it possible to live without cash?

