Literature is not the author's profession. Having been led, by special circumstances only,
to commence writing this work, he found it impossible to go on, without sacrificing to it a
large portion of the time usually allotted to repose, at some little cost both of health and
spirits. This was, however, indispensable, in order to prevent its interference with his professional
avocations. It has been written, also, under certain other considerable disadvantages--which
may account for several imperfections in it during its original appearance. The periodical
interval of leisure which his profession allows him, has enabled the author, however, to give
that revision to the whole, which may render it worthier of the public favor. He is greatly
gratified by the reception which it has already met with, both at home and abroad; and in taking
a final and a reluctant leave of the public, ventures to express a hope, that this work may
prove to be an addition, however small and humble, to the stock of healthy English literature.

LONDON, October 1841.

     For the beautiful verses entitled "PEACE," (at page 266, Vol. I.)
     the author is indebted to a friend--(W. S.)

CONTENTS TO VOL. I.

 CHAP.                                                               PAGE

    I.  While Mr. Tittlebat Titmouse adorns his outer man, the
        reader gets a glimpse of his inner man, such as it is.--A
        sincere friend; a wonderful advertisement; an important
        epistle.--A snake approaches an ape; which signifies Mr.
        Gammon's introduction to Titmouse                               1

   II.  Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, and Mr. Titmouse; who astonishes
        them with a taste of his quality.--Huckaback chooses to call
        upon Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, to stir them up; and what it
        led to                                                         47

  III.  Great lawyers come on the scene; a glimpse of daylight; a
        very moving letter.--Titmouse and Huckaback think it right
        to go to church; and the former receives a lesson on
        landlord-and-tenant law, from Mrs. Squallop                    94

   IV.  A vision of beauty unseen by Mr. Titmouse; who is in the
        midnight of despair and writes a letter which startles Mr.
        Quirk.--How Gammon used to wind round Quirk; and the subtle
        means he took to find out what Titmouse was about             137

    V.  Gammon tackling Tag-rag.--Satin Lodge, and its refined
        inmates, who all pay their duty to Titmouse; and he very
        nearly falls in love with Miss Tag-rag.
        Cyanochaitanthropopoion                                       181

   VI.  Damascus Cream; Tetaragmenon Abracadabra; Titmouse's levee
        at Closet Court; Mr. Tag-rag's entertainment to him at Satin
        Lodge; and its disgusting issue                               222

  VII.  The reader is now introduced to quite a different set of
        people, in Grosvenor Street, and falls in love with Kate
        Aubrey.--Christmas in the country; Yatton; Madam Aubrey; the
        Reverend Dr. Tatham; and old Blind Bess                       252

 VIII.  Two strange creatures are seen at Yatton by Mr. Aubrey and
        his sister; and a hand-grenade is thrown, unseen, at the
        feet of the latter.--Country life; Yatton; Fotheringham; the
        two beauties; and an angel beset by an imp                    297

   IX.  The explosion of the hand-grenade; shattered hopes and
        happiness.--A winter evening's gossip at the Aubrey Arms,
        among Yatton villagers, and its grievous interruption         332

    X.  Gammon versus Tag-rag; and Snap cum Titmouse,
        introducing him to life in London--of one sort.--The feast
        of reason and the flow of soul at Alibi House; Mr. Quirk's
        banquet to Titmouse, who is overcome by it.--Titmouse seems
        to hesitate between Miss Quirk and Kate Aubrey                372

   XI.  Suffering; dignity; tenderness; resignation                   415

  XII.  How the great flaw was discovered in Mr. Aubrey's title; but
        a terrible hitch occurs in the proceedings of his opponents   431

 XIII.  Madam Aubrey's death and burial; Gammon smitten with the
        sight of Kate Aubrey's beauty; and a great battle takes
        place at the York assizes for Yatton                          454

        Notes                                                         507

CHAPTER I.

About ten o'clock one Sunday morning, in the month of July 18--, the dazzling sunbeams, which
had for several hours irradiated a little dismal back attic in one of the closest courts adjoining
Oxford Street, in London, and stimulated with their intensity the closed eyelids of a young
man--one TITTLEBAT TITMOUSE--lying in bed, at length awoke him. He rubbed his eyes for some
time, to relieve himself from the irritation occasioned by the sudden glare they encountered;
and yawned and stretched his limbs with a heavy sense of weariness, as though his sleep had
not refreshed him. He presently cast his eyes towards the heap of clothes lying huddled together
on the backless chair by the bedside, where he had hastily flung them about an hour after midnight;
at which time he had returned from a great draper's shop in Oxford Street, where he served
as a shopman, and where he had nearly dropped asleep, after a long day's work, in the act of
putting up the shutters. He could hardly keep his eyes open while he undressed, short as was
the time required to do so; and on dropping exhausted into bed, there he had continued, in
deep unbroken slumber, till the moment of his being presented to the reader.--He lay for several
minutes, stretching, yawning, and sighing, occasionally casting an irresolute glance towards
the tiny fireplace, where lay a modicum of wood and coal, with a tinder-box and a match or
two placed upon the hob, so that he could easily light his fire for the purposes of shaving,
and breakfasting. He stepped at length lazily out of bed, and when he felt his feet, again
yawned and stretched himself. Then he lit his fire, placed his bit of a kettle on the top of
it, and returned to bed, where he lay with his eye fixed on the fire, watching the crackling
blaze insinuate itself through the wood and coal. Once, however, it began to fail, so he had
to get up and assist it, by blowing, and bits of paper; and it seemed in so precarious a state
that he determined not again to lie down, but sit on the bedside: as he did, with his arms
folded, ready to resume operations if necessary. In this posture he remained for some time,
watching his little fire, and listlessly listening to the discordant jangling of innumerable
church-bells, clamorously calling the citizens to their devotions. The current of thoughts
passing through his mind, was something like the following:--

