Do you suppose I put faith in Michel, when, on my second Alpine excursion, this companion of
the previous day's peril placed himself in close proximity to my mule, took the bridle with
an air of satisfaction, and whispered with an insinuating smile, "I go with you to-day; see,
there is another guide for Mademoiselle"? He was mistaken. It was my young friend whom he was,
on this occasion, destined to escort over the mountain. He was as devoted to her as if she
had been the apple of his eye. Whether I followed next in the file, brought up the rear, or
was dashed over the precipice, I doubt if he looked behind him to discover. Was I fool enough,
then, to trust his professions? I acknowledge the weakness. I was but a novice, he a practised
courtier in the guise of a mountaineer. To make a clean breast of it, I even suspect that his
self-gratulatory whisper is still ringing in my ear, for I find that Mademoiselle and I are
rivals in our devotion to Michel.

And Ann Harris, of Honeybourne, widow, portress of the ancient village-church, surrounded by
villagers' graves, approached by four foot-paths over four stiles, perfect model of all the
churches in all the novels of English literature,--was it partiality for me, ancient matron,
or an eye to a silver sixpence, which made you, and makes you still, the heroine of my day
of romance? At any rate, I shall never cease to invoke a blessing on that immaculate railway-company
which decoyed me from London into the heart of England, and, with a coolness unexampled in
the new districts of Iowa, dropped me at the sweetest nook under the sun, there to wait three
hours for the train which should have taken me at once to Stratford,--three golden hours, in
which I might bask like a bee in a Honeybourne beyond my hopes.

Not that my Honeybourne was precisely the spot where the railway-train left me standing deserted
and alone,--alone save for a Stratford furniture-dealer, who, unceremoniously set down in the
midst of his new stock of tables and chairs, and with nothing else in sight but a platform,
a shed, and me, looked at the last-mentioned object for sympathy, while he cursed the departing
train and swore the usual oath of vengeance, namely, that he would never travel that road again.

He got red with passion and cursed the road; I stared round me and kept cool. Was I more philosophical
than he? No, but there was this difference: he was bent on business, I on pleasure; he was
in a hurry, I could afford to wait.

Three hours,--and only a platform, a shed, and an infuriated furniture-dealer to keep me company!
This was the Honeybourne station, but not Honeybourne. I found a railway-official hard by,
had my baggage stowed in the shed, crossed the platform, looked at my watch to make sure of
the time, then struck out into the open country. Through shady lanes, over stiles, across the
fields, on I went, in the direction pointed out to me by two laborers whom I met at starting.
The sweet white may smiled at me from the hedges; the great sober eyes of the cattle at pasture
reflected my sense of contentment; the nonchalant English sheep showed no signs of disturbance
at my approach (unlike the American species, which invariably take to their heels); the children
set to watch them lifted their heads from the long grass and looked lazily after me, never
doubting my right to tread the well-worn foot-path with which every green field beguiled me
on. I came out in the vegetable-garden of a rustic cottage, one of some dozen thatched-roofed
dwellings, which, with the church and simple parsonage, constituted sweet Honeybourne. "Oh
that it were the bourne from which no traveller returns!" was the thought of my heart, as,
with a dreamy sense of longings fulfilled, I wandered through the miniature village, across
it, around it, beyond it, and back to it again, as a bee saturated with sweets floats round
the hive.

And now to my queen-bee, Ann Harris, aforesaid!

"All the way from Lunnon! Alone, and such a distance! Bless my heart!" cried the primitive
Ann, with hands and eyes uplifted. "Come in and rest you, and have something to eat! I have
bread and butter, sweet and good, and will boil the kettle and make you a cup of tea, if you
say so."

I had already made the circuit of the church, strolled among the ancient gravestones, crossed
the moss-covered bridge, threaded the paths beneath the hawthorn, had a vision of boundless
beauty, drunk in the silence, and dreamed out my dream of solitude, independence, and the joy
of being no one but myself knew where. Could I do better than accept this invitation to enter
the humble cottage, with the prospect of an admittance also to an old woman's heart? Did I
win the latter? or did I only fancy it? Did the motherly creature believe me lost? or was her
astonishment only feigned? Was she really, despite her poverty, ready to share her last crust
with a stranger? or was the benignant glance which gave me in my loneliness the sense of adoption
merely an eye to self-interest?

Dear old soul! One of us, at least, was simple-hearted and true,--either she in her innocent
professions, or I in my silly credulity. I have faith that it was she. At all events, I do
so cherish the memory of her kindness, that, so far from treasuring the notion of the silver
sixpence, I hereby pledge myself, that, if ever the reminiscence I am penning should be worth
half as much to me in gold as it is in memory, I will send Ann Harris at least one shining
guinea, as a token how willingly I would go shares with her in something.

And the guinea would not come amiss, for Ann was poor; her clay-floored cottage boasted only
its exquisite neatness, her furniture was of the humblest, her dress the cheapest. She was
too old for hard work; her duties at the little church were light,--the profits, I fear, were
lighter; for that visitors to the remote sanctuary were rare her reception of me was sufficient
proof. As she guided me through the church, I asked her if it was well attended. She shook
her head sadly, and, pointing in the direction of a neighboring village, answered,--

"Most of 'em go to chapel, yonder,--the more's the pity."

She told me that she had no provision for the coming winter, and feared she must go to the
Union. (It was not our own, then prosperous and unbroken, Union, to which she dreaded emigrating.)
She merely meant the work-house; and as she spoke, her face wore a shadow that still clouds
my recollections of Honeybourne. I do not know if her fears were realized,--if her cottage
is forsaken,--if she dwells among paupers, or sleeps in the village church-yard; but I cannot
think of her as lonely or poor or dead. Her saintly face told of blessed communion; I know
that she was rich in faith and hope; and were I assured that her spirit had left the flesh,
I should only picture her to myself standing erect at heaven's doorway, welcoming strangers
with the same serenity with which she said to me at parting,--"I shall meet you there."

She offered me a farewell gift of flowers from her garden. It was a beautiful cottage-garden,
and many of the flowers were brilliant and even rare, giving proof of careful, if not scientific
culture. Still I hesitated. My hands were full of sweet may, red campion, and other native
field-blossoms, which had introduced themselves to me anonymously. They were the children of
the green sod which I had been treading so lightly on my way to the village; and, in the quiet
of my ramble, they had seemed to me like whispers from Him who made them, and with whom I had
never felt so utterly alone. I could not bear to see them displaced by Ann's garden-belles,
tempting as the latter would have been at any other moment. She saw my indifference to her
offer. I knew she saw it working in my face. I attempted to apologize for my preference, but
she did not understand me; so I blurted out my thought, awkwardly enough, saying,--

"Yours are beautiful; but God made these, you know,--and--and--I like them best."

She looked down upon me gravely, pityingly, smiling, too, with a tenderness which was neither
grave nor pitying. I have seen long-visioned people look with just that expression at the eyes
of the short-sighted, on the latter's confessing their inability to detect an object at no
great distance.

"He made them all," she said; and her words were an ascription of praise.

They come to me often now. They bid me look farther and see more. They tell me how mine and
thine have no place in this world of His. False distinctions shrink away from the light of
the old woman's clearer faith; I see how the ablest workers are but instruments in higher hands,--how
science, culture, inspiration itself, are but gifts to be laid on His altar.

I need scarcely say that I at once found room for Ann's flowers in my hand, as for her lesson
in my heart. Some of the former are pressed and laid away as a sacred memento, and something
of the latter is treasured up among good seed sown by the way-side.

I would gladly have lingered longer in this little nook, into which I seemed to have been drifted
by chance; but my time was up,--I had a mile or two to walk over the fields in the direction
of the railway,--my friends were to meet me at Stratford. Should I miss the train this time,
my philosophy might fail me as signally as that of the above-mentioned furniture-dealer failed him.

A few hours after I bade my old friend farewell, I was at my destination. Millions have shared
my experiences at the tomb of the great poet. Everybody is familiar with William Shakspeare
and Stratford-on-Avon, but I hug the thought that nobody but I knows anything about Ann Harris
and Honeybourne.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have dwelt upon an occasion in which the humble office of a guide resulted in companionship,
friendship, instruction. A brief sojourn in Alpine regions has furnished me with a similar
reminiscence.

We were setting forth for a day's ride across the Tête-Noire. Our party consisted of five,
and we had two guides. Our baggage, which was for the most part light, was strapped on the
backs of the mules behind the riders. One article, however, a square box of considerable proportions,
proved refractory, and, veering from side to side, refused to maintain the even balance which,
owing to the rough nature of the bridle-path, was essential to the safety of both mule and
rider. We were obliged to halt again and again, that the box might be restrapped, always with
doubtful success. Each time that we drew up in line for this purpose we were overtaken by a
Swiss youth, who had perceived our dilemma, and who hoped, by following us up closely, to make
a job out of it. There was but a limited knowledge of French among us, (the language in which
the youth spoke,) still, by aid of his vehement gestures, he made us understand that he was
ready, for a consideration, to accompany us on our toilsome journey, and carry the box on his back.

"Eight francs, Monsieur,--I will do it for eight francs!" But the box was righted, his services
seemed superfluous, and we moved on, regardless of his beseeching looks.

A fresh delay soon ensued, the boy came panting up, and this time it was "Seven francs,"--nay,
as we rode away from him, he frantically shouted, "Six!" His prospects seemed hopeless, but
destiny and perseverance were on his side,--the box gave another alarming lurch,--the heated
and almost discouraged youth made one last appeal,--

"Four francs, Monsieur! I will do it for four francs!" and the day was his.

He was not a regular guide, appointed by Government and furnished with a certificate, as is
the law of the Alpine district for all who serve in this responsible capacity. We had engaged
him simply as a porter. Still, the docile youth had no sooner strapped the box on his back
than, seeing that I was the only lady unprovided with an attendant, he drew my mule's bridle
through his arm, and quietly took me in charge.

No matter how charming a travelling-party you belong to, the moment they are all mounted and
climbing a mountain, single file, you feel yourself a unit in creation. Everybody has turned
his back upon you, and you have turned your back upon everybody. You are a solitary traveller.
Are you aghast at your own situation on the steep slope of a mule's back, with a precipice
above your head and your feet dangling over a gulf below? There is no help for it. Imagine
yourself a sack of meal, if you can, and expect as little sympathy as would be accorded to
that article. Are you moved to a keen sense of the ridiculous, as a curve in the road discloses
the figures of your elongated party, unused to riding, and rendered the more grotesque by their
mountain-equipment? A laugh unshared is no laugh at all, so you may as well smother it at once.
Does the scenery through which you are passing awaken emotions of sublimity? It would be sacrilege
to shout out your sentiments to the occupant of the next mule in such tones as a watchman would
employ to cry, "Fire!" No,--if you are essentially a social creature, there is nothing for
it but to bottle up your sensibilities and await the opportunity for an explosion when you
reach your inn.

Something like this result occurred, I remember, on the evening of that very day, when Mademoiselle,
who, under the charge of Michel, led the van, met me at the hotel at Martigny, at which place
she had of course arrived a little in advance. We were not usually more demonstrative in our
manners than is customary among New-England women, but the moment I could alight we rushed
into each other's embrace, regardless of a crowd of astonished porters and guides, mutually
insisting, by way of apology, that it seemed as if we had not met for a year.

Having dwelt upon this peculiar isolation experienced by the Alpine traveller, it may be conjectured,
that, when the boy, Auguste, drew my bridle through his arm, I felt very much as Robinson Crusoe
did when he was joined by his man Friday. Auguste and I soon became friends. He was a large,
round-faced, mild-eyed youth, who, the instant the excitement of securing his employment was
past, subsided into a soft, even pace like that of a dog. Now and then, too, he looked up at
the mule and me, precisely as a dog, accompanying his master, looks up to see if all is right.

I did not talk to him at first. His mere presence was satisfaction enough. After a while we
grew more sociable. He spoke a French patois. So did I. His was peculiar to the province,--mine
wholly original,--but both answered the purpose of communication, and so were satisfactory.
He had the essential characteristic of his profession,--he was one of the oily-tongued tribe,
simple as he seemed, and I the willing victim; for I am confident that I straightened in my
saddle, and talked more glibly than ever in the language peculiar to myself, on the strength
of his naïve surprise at learning the place of my nativity, and his polite exclamation, "De
l'Amèrique! O! j'avais cru que vous étiez de Paris!"

The conversation you hold with your guide has this advantage,--you can suspend it at will.
There are miles of travel, in crossing the Tête-Noire, when, if your most sympathizing friend
walked beside you, the thought of both hearts would be, "Let all the earth keep silence!" and
in the absence of such unspoken sympathy, the next best thing is the innocent gravity of an
attendant hired for so many francs a day, and not presuming to speak unless spoken to.

But when these sublimer passages are passed, when the path skirts the edge of the valley, when
the giant mountains have retired a little and you slacken the tense cord of emotion which for
a while has held you spell-bound, it is a relief to loosen the tongue also, and reassure yourself
with the sound of the human voice. Thus Auguste and I had frequent dialogues. He told me something
of his past life, which I do not remember very well. I think its chief incident was his having
been drafted for the army, and having served his term. Of his future, however, he spoke with
an earnestness which has left its impression on my mind. He said that the next winter he meant
to go to Paris and seek a service; and his perseverance in wringing employment out of us inclines
me to think that he fulfilled his intention. Savoy, to which province he belonged, had just
been annexed to France. A party of guides from Chamouni had the day before succeeded, with
difficulty, in planting the imperial flag on the summit of Mont Blanc. Was it this which had
awakened the ambition of the young Savoyard to share the spoils of the empire of which he had
so suddenly become a member? Perhaps (I never thought of it before, but perhaps) he was already
seeking means for his journey to the capital. Perhaps the price of his hard-won service was
to be the nucleus of his savings. Have I, then, aided your purpose, Auguste? helped to transform
you from a simple mountain-lad to a mere link in a chain of street-sweepers, an artful official
of a third-rate billiard-saloon, or a roystering cab-driver with his perpetual entreaty for
an extra fee in the form of "Quelque chose à boire"? My mind shrinks from the possibility,
for I cannot bear to think of him as other than he then seemed,--a child of Nature and of the
truth.

In the course of our day's journey we drew near a little village. I had been chatting with
Auguste and felt in a loquacious mood, but paused as I found myself passing through the village,--in
other words, sneaking round the corner of one shabby hut, and straight through the farm-yard
of the next, and close by the windows of a third,--the three, and a few other stray buildings,
constituting the hamlet. As it seemed an impertinence to follow such an intrusive, inquisitive
little road at all, we could, of course, do no less than maintain a dumb propriety in the presence
of the children and kitchen-utensils, but, as we left them behind and struck across an open
field, my eye fell on one of those way-side shrines common in all Roman-Catholic districts.
It was a miniature arch of plastered or whitewashed stone, and contained, as nearly as I could
judge from the glimpse I had in passing, two coarse dolls, intended to represent the Virgin
and Child.

"What is that, Auguste?" I asked, with feigned ignorance.

"A place of worship," he answered; "the people come there to pray."

"But what do they come there for?" I continued.

"God is there," he answered, with emphasis, pointing at the same time to the gayly dressed puppets.

"No, He is not," I replied.

He turned round and looked at me defiantly. His mild face became that of a fanatic, and I actually
quailed beneath his angry eye, as he retorted,--

"He is there."

My mistake flashed upon me, too, at the instant, and I hastened to explain myself in the simplest
manner my poor French would allow, saying,--

"Oui, Auguste, Il est là, c'est vrai; mais Il est là aussi!"--and I pointed to the snow-capped
mountains on my right,--"et là!"--and I waved my hand towards the deeply shadowed heights on
the opposite side of the valley.

He caught my meaning as by an inspiration. His fierce frown melted instantly into an intelligent
smile.

"Il est partout!" exclaimed the youth, with enthusiasm, his childlike, eager eyes seeking a
response in mine.

I nodded in affirmation of the truth. It was enough. Catholic and Protestant had met on common
ground,--we understood each other,--we were reconciled.

Has he carried his large faith with him into the great metropolis? and have I kept mine unshaken
in spite of the storm that is raging in my native land? Armed in his simplicity only, he has
gone to meet the gusts of temptation; and I have lived to see the Republic, which I believed
inviolable as Mother Earth herself, tremble and totter, as one after another of her rotten
pillars has fallen away. God grant that we may both, in this day of our peril, be able, as
then, to realize that "Il est partout"!

During my short Alpine journey I held the office of paymaster for our party, my election being
due not so much to proficiency in the queer dialect above alluded to as to courage in the use
of it. It is always a pleasant office to disburse the funds, but was never more so than when,
late at night, Michel and Auguste came to the hotel at Martigny to receive the reward of their
day's toil. Michel had his full dues in money, and plenty of praise to boot; Auguste, evidently
much to his surprise, a trifle more than his minimum price. Each of them then grasped my hand
in his horny palm,--an unexpected salutation, but not a harsh one, for each hand had a heart
in it, or I believed it had, which was all the same to me. They made the customary promise
not to forget me, but credulity must stop somewhere, and at this point I must confess my easy
faith gave out, and left me skeptical.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have given the preference in order of narrative, as well as in memory, to guides who proved
competent, willing, and true, who, if they seasoned the intercourse between us with a little
encouragement to my self-esteem, had nothing in them obsequious or timeserving, and who set
me a wholesome example of clear convictions and firmness in the maintenance of right. But not
only are the virtues of the race whom I have chosen for a theme subjects of congratulation;
even the uncertainties and misfits of these frequently rusty keys to the past excite a mirth
that lightens the toil with which one rummages through the corridors of time. It would be treason
to tell the name of that antique university-chapel where a certain wooden-headed verger was
betrayed into the absurdest error; it would be personal to give the name of the waggish friend
who made him his innocent butt; but the facts and the joke claim no disguise.

The solemn British beadle had been rehearsing the history of numerous sarcophagi and monuments,
dwelling with mingled pathos and indignation upon the injuries which the chapel, its railings,
and its statues had sustained at the hands of that arch-destroyer and his soldiery who, in
their zeal for the new Commonwealth, trampled brutally upon the records of past grandeur and
royalty.

"He stabled his 'osses 'ere! yes, 'ere,--in this wery chapel! ugh!" was the wrathful exclamation
of our guide; and as he pointed towards the tablets without corners and the effigies lacking
noses or feet, there was a low muttering in his throat and a look at us intended to excite
sympathetic ire on our part.

One only of our party responded to the look.

"Let me see,--Cromwell was a terrible Catholic, wasn't he?" gravely inquired our fellow-traveller,
as if in this way, and this way only, could the sacrilege be accounted for,--one blue eye,
as he spoke, full of sage earnestness, the other twinkling with fun.

The stolid face of our guide now became a study. He had no instructions for such an emergency
as this. The question had made war with his poor wits. For a moment they staggered, felt themselves
defeated, and were about to surrender. But, resolute Briton that he was, the old man soon rallied
his forces. True servant both of Church and State, he saw that there was no consistent course
for him but to consign the enemy of royalty and the contemner of sacred monuments to the abominable
Scarlet Lady. He gave one appealing look at his interrogator, but the side of the face turned
towards him was immovable. It gave no positive discouragement to an affirmative reply; it even
feigned ignorance. Seeking enlightenment, and taking heart of faith, the verger assented in
the words, "Y-e-e-e-s,--I be-e-e-lieve so!" Then, his courage rising as he felt himself committed
to the fact, he continued, with emphasis and a dictatorial nodding of the head, "Yes,--yes,
he was."

Many and laughable are the instances of such perplexity and mistake among the aged pieces of
mechanism who have for years been sounding the same tune to generations of unquestioning ears,
and who, not having an extra note in their gamut, can by no means bear to be played upon by
strange hands. Age has its exemptions and immunities, however; might makes right, and one who
has long been a dictator comes to be deemed an infallible authority. So they whine on, and
are oftener believed than otherwise. As they constitute a class, and those whom I have to do
with are chiefly the exceptions, I will forbear to dwell on stereotyped specimens, and turn
to one so unlike the generality of her tribe, so utterly lawless, so completely at variance
with all her surroundings, that I must beg leave to introduce her precisely as she introduced
herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is an old place in England (there may be many such, but I know there is one) which is
consecrated to imagination, romance, and memory. Abandoned by its owners as a residence, it
is nevertheless maintained in sufficient repair to prevent its walls from crumbling or its
beauty of outline from being marred, and stands forth a living epic, written in stone and oak,
and meriting a place among the classics of the land.

The favorite of tourists, artists, and antiquaries, it can well dispense with anything like
an accurate description from a traveller who went thither, not to study, but to muse; so, putting
in a plea, beforehand, for possible failures in observation and memory, I propose to myself
nothing more than a re-indulgence of the reverie which took possession of me on my visit to
Haddon Hall.

We had spent the middle hours of the day at Chatsworth, that palace and museum of modern art,
and, with senses bewildered and eyes dazzled by the magnificence of a ducal residence unparalleled,
perhaps, in the world for its wealth and culture, we had set off, in the latter part of the
afternoon, to view its antipodes. The circumstances and the hour were not inappropriate. Sated
with the most perfect display of luxury and taste which the present age can boast, and somewhat
weary with the toil of sight-seeing, a six-mile drive, the gradual decline of the summer day,
the shadows gathering over the landscape, all acted as a gentle narcotic, and were a fit preparative
for our approach to that old, deserted homestead, the first glimpse of which set my fancy roaming,
and carried me away into a world of dreams.

Hitherto I had been the contented occupant of an old yellow coach, and had been satisfied with
the pace of two jaded post-horses. But, as I crossed the drawbridge and climbed the steep hill
which led to the principal gateway, I found myself mounted on rapid wings, and whirling through
the centuries. Not that I was rushing on in advance of the age. No,--the wings flapped backwards,
they careered disdainfully over and beyond the region of reality; as we flew, the present became
merged in the past, the actual gave place to the ideal.

