January Contents

                                             PAGE

  Editorial Notes                               5

  =THE ASTER=

  By Lora S. La Mance

  History of the Aster                          6

  The Modern Aster                              6

  General Culture of the Aster               7-11

    About Seed, 7--Time to Start Asters,
    8--Preparing an Aster Bed, 8--Mulching
    and Watering, 8--Insect Foes of Asters,
    9--Other Cultural Rules, 11

  The Aster as a Cut Flower                    11

  Leading Varieties of Asters              12, 13

  The Winter Woods (Poem)                      13

  The Live Oak (Poem)                          13

  Information Box                          14, 15

  Communications                           16, 30

ISSUED BY THE =MAYFLOWER PUBLISHING CO.= FLORAL PARK, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Childs' Giant Cyclamen.

  Our new strain of Cyclamen is the finest in the world.
  Enormous flowers, delicate colors, superb foliage. Each
  bulb produces scores of flowers at once, and each flower
  keeps perfect about two months before fading. As easily
  grown in a window as a Geranium.

  Colors range from dark red to white, delicate blush and
  pink shades prevailing. Often flowers will be spotted.

  The foliage is very beautiful, being variegated, with different
  shades of green, and helps to show off the flowers which
  rise above it, to a remarkable degree. In fact, a plant in
  bloom always looks like a tastily arranged vase of flowers
  and foliage. We offer bulbs for blooming at once, and seed
  which soon makes flowering plants.

  =BULBS.=

  =Giant White=--pure white.
  =Giant Carmine=--Bright.
  =Giant Pink=--Exquisite shade.
  =Giant White Crimson Eye.=

  Bulbs, 30c. each; the 4 for $1.00.

  =Giant Mixed=--All colors, tints and shades, some being finely
  spotted. 25c. each; 5 for $1.00.

  =SEED.=--Of above sorts and colors separate or all of them
  mixed, at 20c. per pkt.; 3 pkts. for 50c.

       *       *       *       *       *

  =Seeds--Bulbs--Plants--Fruits

  OUR 1905 CATALOGUE.=

  30th Anniversary Edition. 148 pages,
  colored plates and hundreds of superb cuts.

  SENT FREE TO ALL WHO APPLY.

  Among our great Novelties and Specialties are the
  following:

  Ivy-leaved Moonflowers, New Asters, Carnations, Geraniums,
  Coleus, Petunias, Verbenas, Pansies, Primulas,
  Pink and Yellow Callas, Burbank's Giant Amaryllis, Caladiums,
  Begonias, Gladiolus. Dahlias, Cannas, Lilies, Azaleas,
  Midwinter Chrysanthemums, New Shrubs, Vines and Rare
  New Fruits. Address at once.

  JOHN LEWIS CHILDS, Floral Park, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAYFLOWER MAGAZINE

Sent for 3 years for only 30c. together with 10 fine Flowering Bulbs Free.

For twenty years THE MAYFLOWER monthly magazine has been the most popular horticultural publication
issued, going all over the world to hundreds of thousands of subscribers. It is devoted exclusively
to the cultivation of Flowers, Plants, Fruits, Vegetables, and to gardening and home adornment
in general. Each issue contains a leading article on some one subject and this subject is treated
fully and concisely, being a perfect treatise. Some of the leading articles for next year will
be as follows: Dahlias, Sweet Peas, Nasturtiums, Carnations, Violets, Asters, etc. Besides
these leading articles each issue contains many more which while not so lengthy are none the
less useful and interesting. Each issue also contains two important and useful departments, namely:

=The Information Box:= What our Readers Want to Know, by Lora S. La Mance. Here requests for
information asked by our readers will be answered in a thorough and interesting manner.

=Correspondence:= Under the heading of each individual state are published interesting and
useful letters from our readers, questions and answers, etc., which make this department of
great interest and value to every subscriber. Most of our articles are finely illustrated,
and all in all THE MAYFLOWER is the greatest help that any lover of flowers and gardening can
have, keeping one abreast of the times on methods of culture, new varieties and scores of topics
of general usefulness.

Knowing that The Mayflower is the greatest help any one can have in the successful cultivation
of flowers and gardens we have made the price so very low that it is easily within the reach
of all.

=SUBSCRIPTION PRICE= only 25 cents for 3 years, or for 30 cents we will mail FREE THE MAYFLOWER
until January 1908, and 10 fine flowering bulbs as follows:

Mayflower's Bulb Garden.

=10 Splendid Summer-Flowering Bulbs for each of those who Subscribe, at a Cost of Only 5 cts.
for postage.=

We have made up a Collection of 10 very choice and beautiful Summer-Flowering Bulbs as sort
of a premium or present to those who subscribe this season. To get these 10 Bulbs it is necessary
only to send =5 cents,= in addition to the subscription price (25c. for 3 years) making only
30c. to be sent to get the 10 Bulbs and THE MAYFLOWER for 3 years, or until January 1908. They
are as follows:

  3 Gladiolus Groff's New Hybrids, newest type
  1 Montbretia Sulphurea, golden yellow
  1 Chlidanthus Fragrans
  1 Phadranassa
  1 Mexican Gem (Milla or Bessera)
  1 Mammoth Oxalis
  1 Hyacinthus Candicans
  1 Zephyranthus

Club Premiums to Club Raisers.

=A Fine Club Premium for Every Name Sent.=

THE MAYFLOWER is so good and valuable that it is a very easy matter for anyone, man, woman,
or child, to get up a club among their friends and neighbors. Just think of it. THE MAYFLOWER
three whole years for only 30 cents. We give the club-raiser a fine premium for every subscriber
sent in. The club-raiser may elect one of the following fine Plants or Bulbs for =every subscriber=
sent us, and same will be mailed free.

Remember also that everyone who subscribes for The Mayflower for 3 years may by sending 5 cts.
more receive the 10 superb Summer-Flowering bulbs.

  1 Bulb Chlidanthus Fragrans
  1 " Yellow Calla
  1 " New Giant Gloxinia
  1 " "  " Begonia
  1 " Canna Musafolia
  1 " Fancy Caladium
  1 " Gloxinia Tubiflora
  1 " Sauromatum Simlense
  1 " Japan Lily
  1 " Easter Gladiolus
  1 Pkt. Seed Jubilee Phlox
  1 " Multiflora Roses
  1 " Mayflower Verbena
  1 " Jennings Pansy
  1 " Giant Petunia
  1 " New Double Sweet Peas, 4 sorts
  1 " Marg. Carnation New Dwarf-Extra fine
  1 " Giant Emperor Asparagus
  1 " Rosy Nugget Watermelon, finest sort
  1 " Everbearing Bush Strawberry

Subscriptions may be sent to

THE MAYFLOWER PUBLISHING CO., Floral Park, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thousands of Women Have Kidney Trouble and Never Suspect It.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Didn't Know I Had Kidney Trouble

I had tried so many remedies without benefit that I was about discouraged, but in a few days
after taking your wonderful Swamp-Root I began to feel better.

I was out of health and run down generally; had no appetite, was dizzy and suffered with headache
most of the time. I did not realize that my kidneys were the cause of my trouble, but somehow
felt they might be, and I began taking Swamp-Root, as above stated. There is such a pleasant
taste to Swamp-Root, and it goes right to the spot and certainly drives disease out of the
system. It has cured me, and I cheerfully recommend it to all sufferers.

  Gratefully yours,

  MRS. A. L. WALKER,
  21 McDaniel St., Atlanta, Ga.

=WOMEN= suffer untold misery because the nature of their disease is not always correctly understood;
in many cases when doctoring, they are led to believe that womb trouble or female weakness
of some sort is responsible for their ills, when in fact disordered kidneys are the chief cause
of their distressing troubles. Perhaps you suffer almost continually with pain in the back,
bearing-down feelings, headache and utter exhaustion.

Your poor health makes you nervous, irritable, and at times despondent; but thousands of just
such suffering or broken-down women are being restored to health and strength every day by
the use of that wonderful discovery, Dr. Kilmer's Swamp-Root, the great kidney, liver and bladder
remedy.

=Why Swamp-Root Gives Strength=

Not only does Swamp-Root bring new life and activity to the kidneys, the cause of the trouble,
but by strengthening the kidneys it acts as a general tonic and food for the entire constitution.

The mild and extraordinary effect of the world-famous kidney and bladder remedy, Swamp-Root,
is soon realized. It stands the highest for its wonderful cures of the most distressing cases.
A trial will convince anyone--and you may have a sample bottle free by mail.

In taking Dr. Kilmer's Swamp-Root you afford natural help to Nature, for Swamp-Root is the
most perfect healer and gentle aid to the kidneys that has been discovered. Don't make any
mistake, but remember the name, Swamp-Root, Dr. Kilmer's Swamp-Root, and the address, Binghamton,
N. Y., on every bottle.

  To Prove What SWAMP-ROOT, the Great Kidney, Liver and Bladder
  Remedy Will do for <u>YOU</u>, Every Reader of The Mayflower
  May Have a Sample Bottle FREE by Mail.

=EDITORIAL NOTICE=--No matter how many doctors you have tried--no matter how much money you
have spent on other medicines, you really owe it to yourself, and to your family, to at least
give Swamp-Root a trial. Its strongest friends to-day are those who had almost given up hope
of ever becoming well again, So successful is Swamp-Root in promptly curing even the most distressing
cases, that to prove its wonderful merits you may have a sample bottle and a book of valuable
information, both sent absolutely free by mail. The book contains many of the thousands upon
thousands of testimonial letters received from men and women cured. The value and success of
Swamp-Root is so well known that our readers are advised to send for a sample bottle.

In writing to Dr. Kilmer & Co., Binghamton, N. Y., be sure to say that you read this generous
offer in THE MAYFLOWER. The proprietors of this paper guarantee the genuineness of this offer.
If you are already convinced that Swamp-Root is what you need, you can purchase the regular
fifty-cent and one-dollar size bottles at all drug stores everywhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. XXI. FLORAL PARK, N. Y., JANUARY, 1905. No. 1

THE MAYFLOWER,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY AT FLORAL PARK, N. Y.,

----BY----

The Mayflower Publishing Co.

JOHN LEWIS CHILDS, President.

Subscription Price, 50 Cents for 3 years.

Foreign subscribers must send two shillings extra for postage.

Devoted to the cultivation of Flowers and Plants, Gardening and Home Adornment in general.

Copyrighted 1904 by the Mayflower Publishing Company

Entered as Second Class Mail Matter at Floral Park P. O., N. Y.

The principal subject of this issue is The Aster, by Lora S. La Mance. Read it and preserve
the copy. It is worth keeping and you are quite likely to need it for future reference.

Complete volume of THE MAYFLOWER for 1904, now ready, price 25c. postpaid. Any volume from
1894 to 1904, inclusive, 25 cts. each.

Editorial Notes

=Our Attractive Offer for 1905=

We would refer our readers to one of the foregoing pages for complete information regarding
our club premiums for 1905. As usual, we offer a good premium, (one that is well worth working
for,) to the club raiser for every subscriber he or she sends us. Here is a chance for all
our readers to add materially to their collection of floral treasures, as it is the simplest
thing in the world to go out among one's friends and neighbors and get subscribers to THE MAYFLOWER.
So good a floral magazine, at only 25c. for 3 years, together with 10 beautiful summer blooming
bulbs for only 5c. extra, is a proposition that people are likely to accept, when it is brought
to their attention, especially if they are the least bit interested in flowers or gardening.

=The Warbler=

If you are in the least interested in the scientific study of birds and bird protection, you
surely need THE WARBLER magazine, which we publish at $1.00 per year, and which is advertised
elsewhere in our columns.

=Imitation Gardenias=

The gardenia flowers now so much favored for wearing are expensive. All the dames beautiful
enough to deserve them in profusion, do not receive them, perhaps. Clever imitations of the
sprays are sometimes made up of the large shining leaves of the Japan Euonymus and the flowers
of the Double Poet's Narcissus, N. alba plena odorata. Unfortunately, the difference in odor
does not lend itself to the illusion.

=Two Favorite Bedding Pansies=

These are Emperor William and Lord Beaconsfield. One is light blue and the other yellow, so
that, en masse, they are effective at a distance. The rich, dark, velvety Pansies are really
more beautiful to look at, but we must stand close by them or hold them in the hand in order
to enjoy them. In photographs the flowers of dark varieties hardly show at all. A good example
of the handling of Pansies for effectiveness is shown in the planting of the six solid beds
usually devoted to them in the grounds of Girard College, Philadelphia. The beds chosen for
them are those that have been planted with Tulips the autumn beforehand. From seed sown in
August grow thrifty young plants that are wintered in a cold-frame. As soon as the Tulips show
leaves above ground young Pansy plants are set between them. When the Tulip flowers begin to
fade the Pansies are opening their buds, and when the faded bulb-stems are cut away, lo! Pansy
beds in full bloom!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ASTER

BY LORA S. LA MANCE, MO.

History of the Aster--The Modern Aster--General Culture of the Aster--About Seed--Time to Start
Asters--Preparing an Aster Bed--Mulching and Watering--Insect Foes of Asters--Other Cultural
Rules--The Aster as a Cut Flower--Leading Varieties of Asters.

HISTORY OF THE ASTER

Starworts or Aster-like flowers of the Compositæ family are found in many parts of the world.
In far-off China a flower-loving Catholic missionary noted a showy flower of late summer and
early autumn. That was nearly two hundred years ago. The flower was what is botanically known
as Callistephus, a Greek term meaning beautiful crown. From a scientific standpoint it was
not an Aster at all, though closely related to that family. This wild Daisy-like Callistephus
bore many graceful single flowers about the size of our largest wild Asters. The flowers consisted
of a single row of light bluish-purple ray petals surrounding a golden disk-like center. In
1731 the Jesuit missionary sent seeds of it to France. It was liked from the first, and its
early French cultivators politely named it Reine Marguerite--Queen Daisy.

In due time the plant reached England. Here it was re-named. In allusion to its origin and
to the star-like spread of its bluish petals, they called it China Aster, =i.e.= China Star.
Even in our mother's day it was still called the China Aster. It became popular, especially
as it soon sported into different colors. Otherwise there was little change in it until a little
after 1840, when the first double flowers were produced.

