"An easy task, I presume, in all cases, Mr. Tyrrel," answered Jekyl, "but peculiarly so in
the present, when you will find no one so hardy as to assail it.--My interference, indeed,
would have been unjustifiably officious, had I not been at the moment undertaking a commission
implying confidential intercourse with you. For the sake of my own character, it became necessary
to establish yours. I know the truth of the whole affair from my friend, the Earl of Etherington,
who ought to thank Heaven so long as he lives, that saved him on that occasion from the commission
of a very great crime."

"Your friend, sir, has had, in the course of his life, much to thank Heaven for, but more for
which to ask God's forgiveness."

"I am no divine, sir," replied Captain Jekyl, with spirit; "but I have been told that the same
may be said of most men alive."

"I, at least, cannot dispute it," said Tyrrel; "but, to proceed.--Have you found yourself at
liberty, Captain Jekyl, to deliver to the public the whole particulars of a rencontre so singular
as that which took place between your friend and me?"

"I have not, sir," said Jekyl--"I judged it a matter of great delicacy, and which each of you
had the like interest to preserve secret."

"May I beg to know, then," said Tyrrel, "how it was possible for you to vindicate my absence
from Sir Bingo's rendezvous otherwise?"

"It was only necessary, sir, to pledge my word as a gentleman and a man of honour, characters
in which I am pretty well known to the world, that, to my certain personal knowledge, you were
hurt in an affair with a friend of mine, the further particulars of which prudence required
should be sunk into oblivion. I think no one will venture to dispute my word, or to require
more than my assurance.--If there should be any one very hard of faith on the occasion, I shall
find a way to satisfy him. In the meanwhile, your outlawry has been rescinded in the most honourable
manner; and Sir Bingo, in consideration of his share in giving rise to reports so injurious
to you, is desirous to drop all further proceedings in his original quarrel, and hopes the
whole matter will be forgot and forgiven on all sides."

"Upon my word, Captain Jekyl," answered Tyrrel, "you lay me under the necessity of acknowledging
obligation to you. You have cut a knot which I should have found it very difficult to unloose;
for I frankly confess, that, while I was determined not to remain under the stigma put upon
me, I should have had great difficulty in clearing myself, without mentioning circumstances,
which, were it only for the sake of my father's memory, should be buried in eternal oblivion.
I hope your friend feels no continued inconvenience from his hurt?"

"His lordship is nearly quite recovered," said Jekyl.

"And I trust he did me the justice to own, that, so far as my will was concerned, I am totally
guiltless of the purpose of hurting him?"

"He does you full justice in that and every thing else," replied Jekyl; "regrets the impetuosity
of his own temper, and is determined to be on his guard against it in future."

"That," said Tyrrel, "is so far well; and now, may I ask once more, what communication you
have to make to me on the part of your friend?--Were it from any one but him, whom I have found
so uniformly false and treacherous, your own fairness and candour would induce me to hope that
this unnatural quarrel might be in some sort ended by your mediation."

"I then proceed, sir, under more favourable auspices than I expected," said Captain Jekyl,
"to enter on my commission.--You are about to commence a lawsuit, Mr. Tyrrel, if fame does
not wrong you, for the purpose of depriving your brother of his estate and title."

"The case is not fairly stated, Captain Jekyl," replied Tyrrel; "I commence a lawsuit, when
I do commence it, for the sake of ascertaining my own just rights."

"It comes to the same thing eventually," said the mediator; "I am not called upon to decide
upon the justice of your claims, but they are, you will allow, newly started. The late Countess
of Etherington died in possession--open and undoubted possession--of her rank in society."

"If she had no real claim to it, sir," replied Tyrrel, "she had more than justice who enjoyed
it so long; and the injured lady whose claims were postponed, had just so much less.--But this
is no point for you and me to discuss between us--it must be tried elsewhere."

"Proofs, sir, of the strongest kind, will be necessary to overthrow a right so well established
in public opinion as that of the present possessor of the title of Etherington."

Tyrrel took a paper from his pocketbook, and, handing it to Captain Jekyl, only answered, "I
have no thoughts of asking you to give up the cause of your friend; but methinks the documents
of which I give you a list, may shake your opinion of it."

Captain Jekyl read, muttering to himself, "'Certificate of marriage, by the Rev. Zadock Kemp,
chaplain to the British Embassy at Paris, between Marie de Bellroche, Comptesse de Martigny,
and the Right Honourable John Lord Oakendale--Letters between John Earl of Etherington and
his lady, under the title of Madame de Martigny--Certificate of baptism--Declaration of the
Earl of Etherington on his death-bed.'--All this is very well--but may I ask you, Mr. Tyrrel,
if it is really your purpose to go to extremity with your brother?"

"He has forgot that he is one--he has lifted his hand against my life."

"You have shed his blood--twice shed it," said Jekyl; "the world will not ask which brother
gave the offence, but which received, which inflicted, the severest wound."

"Your friend has inflicted one on me, sir," said Tyrrel, "that will bleed while I have the
power of memory."

"I understand you, sir," said Captain Jekyl; "you mean the affair of Miss Mowbray?"

"Spare me on that subject, sir!" said Tyrrel. "Hitherto I have disputed my most important rights--rights
which involved my rank in society, my fortune, the honour of my mother--with something like
composure; but do not say more on the topic you have touched upon, unless you would have before
you a madman!--Is it possible for you, sir, to have heard even the outline of this story, and
to imagine that I can ever reflect on the cold-blooded and most inhuman stratagem, which this
friend of yours prepared for two unfortunates, without"--He started up, and walked impetuously
to and fro. "Since the Fiend himself interrupted the happiness of perfect innocence, there
was never such an act of treachery--never such schemes of happiness destroyed--never such inevitable
misery prepared for two wretches who had the idiocy to repose perfect confidence in him!--Had
there been passion in his conduct, it had been the act of a man--a wicked man, indeed, but
still a human creature, acting under the influence of human feelings--but his was the deed
of a calm, cold, calculating demon, actuated by the basest and most sordid motives of self-interest,
joined, as I firmly believe, to an early and inveterate hatred of one whose claims he considered
as at variance with his own."

"I am sorry to see you in such a temper," said Captain Jekyl, calmly; "Lord Etherington, I
trust, acted on very different motives than those you impute to him; and if you will but listen
to me, perhaps something may be struck out which may accommodate these unhappy disputes."

"Sir," said Tyrrel, sitting down again, "I will listen to you with calmness, as I would remain
calm under the probe of a surgeon tenting a festered wound. But when you touch me to the quick,
when you prick the very nerve, you cannot expect me to endure without wincing."

"I will endeavour, then, to be as brief in the operation as I can," replied Captain Jekyl,
who possessed the advantage of the most admirable composure during the whole conference. "I
conclude, Mr. Tyrrel, that the peace, happiness, and honour of Miss Mowbray, are dear to you?"

"Who dare impeach her honour!" said Tyrrel, fiercely; then checking himself, added, in a more
moderate tone, but one of deep feeling, "they are dear to me, sir, as my eyesight."

"My friend holds them in equal regard," said the Captain; "and has come to the resolution of
doing her the most ample justice."

"He can do her justice no otherwise, than by ceasing to haunt this neighbourhood, to think,
to speak, even to dream of her."

"Lord Etherington thinks otherwise," said Captain Jekyl; "he believes that if Miss Mowbray
has sustained any wrong at his hands, which, of course, I am not called upon to admit, it will
be best repaired by the offer to share with her his title, his rank, and his fortune."

"His title, rank, and fortune, sir, are as much a falsehood as he is himself," said Tyrrel,
with violence--"Marry Clara Mowbray? never!"

"My friend's fortune, you will observe," replied Jekyl, "does not rest entirely upon the event
of the lawsuit with which you, Mr. Tyrrel, now threaten him.--Deprive him, if you can, of the
Oakendale estate, he has still a large patrimony by his mother; and besides, as to his marriage
with Clara Mowbray, he conceives, that unless it should be the lady's wish to have the ceremony
repeated to which he is most desirous to defer his own opinion, they have only to declare that
it has already passed between them."

"A trick, sir!" said Tyrrel, "a vile infamous trick! of which the lowest wretch in Newgate
would be ashamed--the imposition of one person for another."

"Of that, Mr. Tyrrel, I have seen no evidence whatever. The clergyman's certificate is clear--Francis
Tyrrel is united to Clara Mowbray in the holy bands of wedlock--such is the tenor--there is
a copy--nay, stop one instant, if you please, sir. You say there was an imposition in the case--I
have no doubt but you speak what you believe, and what Miss Mowbray told you. She was surprised--forced
in some measure from the husband she had just married--ashamed to meet her former lover, to
whom, doubtless, she had made many a vow of love, and ne'er a true one--what wonder that, unsupported
by her bridegroom, she should have changed her tone, and thrown all the blame of her own inconstancy
on the absent swain?--A woman, at a pinch so critical, will make the most improbable excuse,
rather than be found guilty on her own confession."

"There must be no jesting in this case," said Tyrrel, his cheek becoming pale, and his voice
altered with passion.

"I am quite serious, sir," replied Jekyl; "and there is no law court in Britain that would
take the lady's word--all she has to offer, and that in her own cause--against a whole body
of evidence direct and circumstantial, showing that she was by her own free consent married
to the gentleman who now claims her hand.--Forgive me, sir--I see you are much agitated--I
do not mean to dispute your right of believing what you think is most credible--I only use
the freedom of pointing out to you the impression which the evidence is likely to make on the
minds of indifferent persons."

"Your friend," answered Tyrrel, affecting a composure, which, however, he was far from possessing,
"may think by such arguments to screen his villainy; but it cannot avail him--the truth is
known to Heaven--it is known to me--and there is, besides, one indifferent witness upon earth,
who can testify that the most abominable imposition was practised on Miss Mowbray."

"You mean her cousin,--Hannah Irwin, I think, is her name," answered Jekyl; "you see I am fully
acquainted with all the circumstances of the case. But where is Hannah Irwin to be found?"

"She will appear, doubtless, in Heaven's good time, and to the confusion of him who now imagines
the only witness of his treachery--the only one who could tell the truth of this complicated
mystery--either no longer lives, or, at least, cannot be brought forward against him, to the
ruin of his schemes. Yes, sir, that slight observation of yours has more than explained to
me why your friend, or, to call him by his true name, Mr. Valentine Bulmer, has not commenced
his machinations sooner, and also why he has commenced them now. He thinks himself certain
that Hannah Irwin is not now in Britain, or to be produced in a court of justice--he may find
himself mistaken."

"My friend seems perfectly confident of the issue of his cause," answered Jekyl; "but for the
lady's sake, he is most unwilling to prosecute a suit which must be attended with so many circumstances
of painful exposure."

"Exposure, indeed!" answered Tyrrel; "thanks to the traitor who laid a mine so fearful, and
who now affects to be reluctant to fire it.--Oh! how I am bound to curse that affinity that
restrains my hands! I would be content to be the meanest and vilest of society, for one hour
of vengeance on this unexampled hypocrite!--One thing is certain, sir--your friend will have
no living victim. His persecution will kill Clara Mowbray, and fill up the cup of his crimes,
with the murder of one of the sweetest----I shall grow a woman, if I say more on the subject!"

"My friend," said Jekyl, "since you like best to have him so defined, is as desirous as you
can be to spare the lady's feelings; and with that view, not reverting to former passages,
he has laid before her brother a proposal of alliance, with which Mr. Mowbray is highly pleased."

"Ha!" said Tyrrel, starting--"And the lady?"--

"And the lady so far proved favourable, as to consent that Lord Etherington shall visit Shaws-Castle."

"Her consent must have been extorted!" exclaimed Tyrrel.

"It was given voluntarily," said Jekyl, "as I am led to understand; unless, perhaps, in so
far as the desire to veil these very unpleasing transactions may have operated, I think naturally
enough, to induce her to sink them in eternal secrecy, by accepting Lord Etherington's hand.--I
see, sir, I give you pain, and am sorry for it.--I have no title to call upon you for any exertion
of generosity; but, should such be Miss Mowbray's sentiments, is it too much to expect of you,
that you will not compromise the lady's honour by insisting upon former claims, and opening
up disreputable transactions so long past?"

"Captain Jekyl," said Tyrrel, solemnly, "I have no claims. Whatever I might have had, were
cancelled by the act of treachery through which your friend endeavoured too successfully to
supplant me. Were Clara Mowbray as free from her pretended marriage as law could pronounce
her, still with me--me, at least, of all men in the world--the obstacle must ever remain, that
the nuptial benediction has been pronounced over her, and the man whom I must for once call
brother."--He stopped at that word, as if it had cost him agony to pronounce it, and then resumed:--"No,
sir, I have no views of personal advantage in this matter--they have been long annihilated--But
I will not permit Clara Mowbray to become the wife of a villain--I will watch over her with
thoughts as spotless as those of her guardian angel. I first persuaded her to quit the path
of duty[II-B]--I, of all men who live, am bound to protect her from the misery--from the guilt--which
must attach to her as this man's wife. I will never believe that she wishes it--I will never
believe, that in calm mind and sober reason, she can be brought to listen to such a guilty
proposal.--But her mind--alas!--is not of the firm texture it once could boast; and your friend
knows well how to press on the spring of every passion that can agitate and alarm her. Threats
of exposure may extort her consent to this most unfitting match, if they do not indeed drive
her to suicide, which I think the most likely termination. I will, therefore, be strong where
she is weak.--Your friend, sir, must at least strip his proposals of their fine gilding. I
will satisfy Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's of his false pretences, both to rank and fortune; and
I rather think he will protect his sister against the claim of a needy profligate, though he
might be dazzled with the alliance of a wealthy peer."

"Your cause, sir, is not yet won," answered Jekyl; "and when it is, your brother will retain
property enough to entitle him to marry a greater match than Miss Mowbray, besides the large
estate of Nettlewood, to which that alliance must give him right. But I would wish to make
some accommodation between you if it were possible. You profess, Mr. Tyrrel, to lay aside all
selfish wishes and views in this matter, and to look entirely to Miss Mowbray's safety and
happiness?"

"Such, upon my honour, is the exclusive purpose of my interference--I would give all I am worth
to procure her an hour of quiet--for happiness she will never know again."

"Your anticipations of Miss Mowbray's distress," said Jekyl, "are, I understand, founded upon
the character of my friend. You think him a man of light principle, and because he overreached
you in a juvenile intrigue, you conclude that now, in his more steady and advanced years, the
happiness of the lady in whom you are so much interested ought not to be trusted to him?"

"There may be other grounds," said Tyrrel, hastily; "but you may argue upon those you have
named, as sufficient to warrant my interference."

"How, then, if I should propose some accommodation of this nature? Lord Etherington does not
pretend to the ardour of a passionate lover. He lives much in the world, and has no desire
to quit it. Miss Mowbray's health is delicate--her spirits variable--and retirement would most
probably be her choice.--Suppose--I am barely putting a supposition--suppose that a marriage
between two persons so circumstanced were rendered necessary or advantageous to both--suppose
that such a marriage were to secure to one party a large estate--were to insure the other against
all the consequences of an unpleasant exposure--still, both ends might be obtained by the mere
ceremony of marriage passing between them. There might be a previous contract of separation,
with suitable provisions for the lady, and stipulations, by which the husband should renounce
all claim to her society. Such things happen every season, if not on the very marriage day,
yet before the honeymoon is over.--Wealth and freedom would be the lady's, and as much rank
as you, sir, supposing your claims just, may think proper to leave them."

There was a long pause, during which Tyrrel underwent many changes of countenance, which Jekyl
watched carefully, without pressing him for an answer. At length he replied, "There is much
in your proposal, Captain Jekyl, which I might be tempted to accede to, as one manner of unloosing
this Gordian knot, and a compromise by which Miss Mowbray's future tranquillity would be in
some degree provided for. But I would rather trust a fanged adder than your friend, unless
I saw him fettered by the strongest ties of interest. Besides, I am certain the unhappy lady
could never survive the being connected with him in this manner, though but for the single
moment when they should appear together at the altar. There are other objections"----

He checked himself, paused, and then proceeded in a calm and self-possessed tone. "You think,
perhaps, even yet, that I have some selfish and interested views in this business; and probably
you may feel yourself entitled to entertain the same suspicion towards me, which I avowedly
harbour respecting every proposition which originates with your friend.--I cannot help it--I
can but meet these disadvantageous impressions with plain dealing and honesty; and it is in
the spirit of both that I make a proposition to you.--Your friend is attached to rank, fortune,
and worldly advantages, in the usual proportion, at least, in which they are pursued by men
of the world--this you must admit, and I will not offend you by supposing more."

"I know few people who do not desire such advantages," answered Captain Jekyl; "and I frankly
own, that he affects no particular degree of philosophic indifference respecting them."

"Be it so," answered Tyrrel. "Indeed, the proposal you have just made indicates that his pretended
claim on this young lady's hand is entirely, or almost entirely, dictated by motives of interest,
since you are of opinion that he would be contented to separate from her society on the very
marriage day, provided that, in doing so, he was assured of the Nettlewood property."

"My proposition was unauthorized by my principal," answered Jekyl; "but it is needless to deny,
that its very tenor implies an idea, on my part, that Lord Etherington is no passionate lover."

"Well then," answered Tyrrel. "Consider, sir, and let him consider well, that the estate and
rank he now assumes, depend upon my will and pleasure--that, if I prosecute the claims of which
that scroll makes you aware, he must descend from the rank of an earl into that of a commoner,
stripped of by much the better half of his fortune--a diminution which would be far from compensated
by the estate of Nettlewood, even if he could obtain it, which could only be by means of a
lawsuit, precarious in the issue, and most dishonourable in its very essence."

"Well, sir," replied Jekyl, "I perceive your argument--What is your proposal?"

"That I will abstain from prosecuting my claim on those honours and that property--that I will
leave Valentine Bulmer in possession of his usurped title and ill-deserved wealth--that I will
bind myself under the strongest penalties never to disturb his possession of the Earldom of
Etherington and estates belonging to it--on condition that he allows the woman, whose peace
of mind he has ruined for ever, to walk through the world in her wretchedness, undisturbed
either by his marriage-suit, or by any claim founded upon his own most treacherous conduct--in
short, that he forbear to molest Clara Mowbray, either by his presence, word, letter, or through
the intervention of a third party, and be to her in future as if he did not exist."

"This is a singular offer," said the Captain; "may I ask if you are serious in making it?"

"I am neither surprised nor offended at the question," said Tyrrel. "I am a man, sir, like
others, and affect no superiority to that which all men desire the possession of--a certain
consideration and station in society. I am no romantic fool to undervalue the sacrifice I am
about to make. I renounce a rank, which is and ought to be the more valuable to me, because
it involves (he blushed as he spoke) the fame of an honoured mother--because, in failing to
claim it, I disobey the commands of a dying father, who wished that by doing so I should declare
to the world the penitence which hurried him perhaps to the grave, and the making which public
he considered might be some atonement for his errors. From an honoured place in the land, I
descend voluntarily to become a nameless exile; for, once certain that Clara Mowbray's peace
is assured, Britain no longer holds me.--All this I do, sir, not in any idle strain of overheated
feeling, but seeing, and knowing, and dearly valuing, every advantage which I renounce--yet
I do it, and do it willingly, rather than be the cause of farther evil to one, on whom I have
already brought too--too much."

His voice, in spite of his exertions, faltered as he concluded the sentence, and a big drop
which rose to his eye, required him for the moment to turn towards the window.

"I am ashamed of this childishness," he said, turning again to Captain Jekyl; "if it excites
your ridicule, sir, let it be at least a proof of my sincerity."

"I am far from entertaining such sentiments," said Jekyl, respectfully--for, in a long train
of fashionable follies, his heart had not been utterly hardened--"very far, indeed. To a proposal
so singular as yours, I cannot be expected to answer--except thus far--the character of the
peerage is, I believe, indelible, and cannot be resigned or assumed at pleasure. If you are
really Earl of Etherington, I cannot see how your resigning the right may avail my friend."

"You, sir, it might not avail," said Tyrrel, gravely, "because you, perhaps, might scorn to
exercise a right, or hold a title, that was not legally yours. But your friend will have no
such compunctious visitings. If he can act the Earl to the eye of the world, he has already
shown that his honour and conscience will be easily satisfied."

"May I take a copy of the memorandum containing this list of documents," said Captain Jekyl,
"for the information of my constituent?"

"The paper is at your pleasure, sir," replied Tyrrel; "it is itself but a copy.--But Captain
Jekyl," he added, with a sarcastic expression, "is, it would seem, but imperfectly let into
his friend's confidence--he may be assured his principal is completely acquainted with the
contents of this paper, and has accurate copies of the deeds to which it refers."

"I think it scarce possible," said Jekyl, angrily.

"Possible and certain!" answered Tyrrel. "My father, shortly preceding his death, sent me--with
a most affecting confession of his errors--this list of papers, and acquainted me that he had
made a similar communication to your friend. That he did so I have no doubt, however Mr. Bulmer
may have thought proper to disguise the circumstance in communication with you. One circumstance,
among others, stamps at once his character, and confirms me of the danger he apprehended by
my return to Britain. He found means, through a scoundrelly agent, who had made me the usual
remittances from my father while alive, to withhold those which were necessary for my return
from the Levant, and I was obliged to borrow from a friend."

"Indeed?" replied Jekyl. "It is the first time I have heard of these papers--May I enquire
where the originals are, and in whose custody?"

"I was in the East," answered Tyrrel, "during my father's last illness, and these papers were
by him deposited with a respectable commercial house, with which he was connected. They were
enclosed in a cover directed to me, and that again in an envelope, addressed to the principal
person in their firm."

"You must be sensible," said Captain Jekyl, "that I can scarcely decide on the extraordinary
offer which you have been pleased to make, of resigning the claim founded on these documents,
unless I had a previous opportunity of examining them."

"You shall have that opportunity--I will write to have them sent down by the post--they lie
but in small compass."

"This, then," said the Captain, "sums up all that can be said at present.--Supposing these
proofs to be of unexceptionable authenticity, I certainly would advise my friend Etherington
to put to sleep a claim so important as yours, even at the expense of resigning his matrimonial
speculation--I presume you design to abide by your offer?"

"I am not in the habit of altering my mind--still less of retracting my word," said Tyrrel,
somewhat haughtily.

"We part friends, I hope?" said Jekyl, rising, and taking his leave.

"Not enemies certainly, Captain Jekyl. I will own to you I owe you my thanks, for extricating
me from that foolish affair at the Well--nothing could have put me to more inconvenience than
the necessity of following to extremity a frivolous quarrel at the present moment."

"You will come down among us, then?" said Jekyl.

"I certainly shall not wish to appear to hide myself," answered Tyrrel; "it is a circumstance
might be turned against me--there is a party who will avail himself of every advantage. I have
but one path, Captain Jekyl--that of truth and honour."

Captain Jekyl bowed, and took his leave. So soon as he was gone, Tyrrel locked the door of
the apartment, and drawing from his bosom a portrait, gazed on it with a mixture of sorrow
and tenderness, until the tears dropped from his eye.

It was the picture of Clara Mowbray, such as he had known her in the days of their youthful
love, and taken by himself, whose early turn for painting had already developed itself. The
features of the blooming girl might be yet traced in the fine countenance of the more matured
original. But what was now become of the glow which had shaded her cheek?--what of the arch,
yet subdued pleasantry, which lurked in the eye?--what of the joyous content, which composed
every feature to the expression of an Euphrosyne?--Alas! these were long fled!--Sorrow had
laid his hand upon her--the purple light of youth was quenched--the glance of innocent gaiety
was exchanged for looks now moody with ill-concealed care, now animated by a spirit of reckless
and satirical observation.

"What a wreck! what a wreck!" exclaimed Tyrrel; "and all of one wretch's making.--Can I put
the last hand to the work, and be her murderer outright? I cannot--I cannot!--I will be strong
in the resolve I have formed--I will sacrifice all--rank--station--fortune--and fame. Revenge!--Revenge
itself, the last good left me--revenge itself I will sacrifice, to obtain for her such tranquillity
as she may be yet capable to enjoy."

In this resolution he sat down, and wrote a letter to the commercial house with whom the documents
of his birth, and other relative papers, were deposited, requesting that the packet containing
them should be forwarded to him through the post-office.

Tyrrel was neither unambitious, nor without those sentiments respecting personal consideration,
which are usually united with deep feeling and an ardent mind. It was with a trembling hand,
and a watery eye, but with a heart firmly resolved, that he sealed and dispatched the letter;
a step towards the resignation, in favour of his mortal enemy, of that rank and condition in
life, which was his own by right of inheritance, but had so long hung in doubt betwixt them.

CHAPTER XI.

INTRUSION.

     By my troth, I will go with thee to the lane's-end!--I am a kind of
     burr--I shall stick.

Measure for Measure.

It was now far advanced in autumn. The dew lay thick on the long grass, where it was touched
by the sun; but where the sward lay in shadow, it was covered with hoar frost, and crisped
under Jekyl's foot, as he returned through the woods of St. Ronan's. The leaves of the ash-trees
detached themselves from the branches, and, without an air of wind, fell spontaneously on the
path. The mists still lay lazily upon the heights, and the huge old tower of St. Ronan's was
entirely shrouded with vapour, except where a sunbeam, struggling with the mist, penetrated
into its wreath so far as to show a projecting turret upon one of the angles of the old fortress,
which, long a favourite haunt of the raven, was popularly called the Corbie's Tower. Beneath,
the scene was open and lightsome, and the robin redbreast was chirping his best, to atone for
the absence of all other choristers. The fine foliage of autumn was seen in many a glade, running
up the sides of each little ravine, russet-hued and golden-specked, and tinged frequently with
the red hues of the mountain-ash; while here and there a huge old fir, the native growth of
the soil, flung his broad shadow over the rest of the trees, and seemed to exult in the permanence
of his dusky livery over the more showy, but transitory brilliance by which he was surrounded.

Such is the scene, which, so often described in prose and in poetry, yet seldom loses its effect
upon the ear or upon the eye, and through which we wander with a strain of mind congenial to
the decline of the year. There are few who do not feel the impression; and even Jekyl, though
bred to far different pursuits than those most favourable to such contemplation, relaxed his
pace to admire the uncommon beauty of the landscape.

Perhaps, also, he was in no hurry to rejoin the Earl of Etherington, towards whose service
he felt himself more disinclined since his interview with Tyrrel. It was clear that that nobleman
had not fully reposed in his friend the confidence promised; he had not made him aware of the
existence of those important documents of proof, on which the whole fate of his negotiation
appeared now to hinge, and in so far had deceived him. Yet, when he pulled from his pocket,
and re-read Lord Etherington's explanatory letter, Jekyl could not help being more sensible
than he had been on the first perusal, how much the present possessor of that title felt alarmed
at his brother's claims; and he had some compassion for the natural feeling that must have
rendered him shy of communicating at once the very worst view of his case, even to his most
confidential friend. Upon the whole, he remembered that Lord Etherington had been his benefactor
to an unusual extent; that, in return, he had promised the young nobleman his active and devoted
assistance, in extricating him from the difficulties with which he seemed at present surrounded;
that, in quality of his confidant, he had become acquainted with the most secret transactions
of his life; and that it could only be some very strong cause indeed which could justify breaking
off from him at this moment. Yet he could not help wishing either that his own obligations
had been less, his friend's cause better, or, at least, the friend himself more worthy of assistance.

"A beautiful morning, sir, for such a foggy, d----d climate as this," said a voice close by
Jekyl's ear, which made him at once start out of his contemplation. He turned half round, and
beside him stood our honest friend Touchwood, his throat muffled in his large Indian handkerchief,
huge gouty shoes thrust upon his feet, his bobwig well powdered, and the gold-headed cane in
his hand, carried upright as a sergeant's halberd. One glance of contemptuous survey entitled
Jekyl, according to his modish ideas, to rank the old gentleman as a regular-built quiz, and
to treat him as the young gentlemen of his Majesty's Guards think themselves entitled to use
every unfashionable variety of the human species. A slight inclination of a bow, and a very
cold "You have the advantage of me, sir," dropped as it were unconsciously from his tongue,
were meant to repress the old gentleman's advances, and moderate his ambition to be hail fellow
well met with his betters. But Mr. Touchwood was callous to the intended rebuke; he had lived
too much at large upon the world, and was far too confident of his own merits, to take a repulse
easily, or to permit his modesty to interfere with any purpose which he had formed.

"Advantage of you, sir?" he replied; "I have lived too long in the world not to keep all the
advantages I have, and get all I can--and I reckon it one that I have overtaken you, and shall
have the pleasure of your company to the Well."

"I should but interrupt your worthier meditations, sir," said the other; "besides, I am a modest
young man, and think myself fit for no better company than my own--moreover, I walk slow--very
slow.--Good morning to you, Mr. A--A--I believe my treacherous memory has let slip your name, sir."

"My name!--Why your memory must have been like Pat Murtough's greyhound, that let the hare
go before he caught it. You never heard my name in your life. Touchwood is my name. What d'ye
think of it, now you know it?"

"I am really no connoisseur in surnames," answered Jekyl: "and it is quite the same to me whether
you call yourself Touchwood or Touchstone. Don't let me keep you from walking on, sir. You
will find breakfast far advanced at the Well, sir, and your walk has probably given you an
appetite."

"Which will serve me to luncheon-time, I promise you," said Touchwood; "I always drink my coffee
as soon as my feet are in my pabouches--it's the way all over the East. Never trust my breakfast
to their scalding milk-and-water at the Well, I assure you; and for walking slow, I have had
a touch of the gout."

"Have you," said Jekyl; "I am sorry for that; because, if you have no mind to breakfast, I
have--and so, Mr. Touchstone, good-morrow to you."

But, although the young soldier went off at double quick time, his pertinacious attendant kept
close by his side, displaying an activity which seemed inconsistent with his make and his years,
and talking away the whole time, so as to show that his lungs were not in the least degree
incommoded by the unusual rapidity of motion.

"Nay, young gentleman, if you are for a good smart walk, I am for you, and the gout may be
d--d. You are a lucky fellow to have youth on your side; but yet, so far as between the Aultoun
and the Well, I think I could walk you for your sum, barring running--all heel and toe--equal
weight, and I would match Barclay himself for a mile."

"Upon my word, you are a gay old gentleman!" said Jekyl, relaxing his pace; "and if we must
be fellow-travellers, though I can see no great occasion for it, I must even shorten sail for you."

So saying, and as if another means of deliverance had occurred to him, he slackened his pace,
took out a morocco case of cigars, and, lighting one with his briquet, said, while he walked
on, and bestowed as much of its fragrance as he could upon the face of his intrusive companion,
"Vergeben sie, mein herr--ich bin erzogen in kaiserlicher dienst--muss rauchen ein kleine wenig."[II-6]

"Rauchen sie immer fort," said Touchwood, producing a huge meerschaum, which, suspended by
a chain from his neck, lurked in the bosom of his coat, "habe auch mein pfeichen--Sehen sie
den lieben topf!"[II-7] and he began to return the smoke, if not the fire, of his companion,
in full volumes, and with interest.

"The devil take the twaddle," said Jekyl to himself, "he is too old and too fat to be treated
after the manner of Professor Jackson; and, on my life, I cannot tell what to make of him.--He
is a residenter too--I must tip him the cold shoulder, or he will be pestering me eternally."

Accordingly, he walked on, sucking his cigar, and apparently in as abstracted a mood as Mr.
Cargill himself, without paying the least attention to Touchwood, who, nevertheless, continued
talking, as if he had been addressing the most attentive listener in Scotland, whether it were
the favourite nephew of a cross, old, rich bachelor, or the aid-de-camp of some old rusty firelock
of a general, who tells stories of the American war.

"And so, sir, I can put up with any companion at a pinch, for I have travelled in all sorts
of ways, from a caravan down to a carrier's cart; but the best society is the best every where;
and I am happy I have fallen in with a gentleman who suits me so well as you.--That grave,
steady attention of yours reminds me of Elfi Bey--you might talk to him in English, or any
thing he understood least of--you might have read Aristotle to Elfi, and not a muscle would
he stir--give him his pipe, and he would sit on his cushion with a listening air as if he took
in every word of what you said."

Captain Jekyl threw away the remnant of his cigar, with a little movement of pettishness, and
began to whistle an opera air.

