The storm burst upon us six weeks later, about the time of the summer sales. As Wenus approached
opposition, Dr. Jelli of Guava set the wires of the astronomical exchange palpitating with
the intelligence of a huge explosion of laughing gas moving risibly towards the earth. He compared
it to a colossal cosmic cachinnation. And, in the light of subsequent events, the justice of
the comparison will commend itself to all but the most sober readers.

Had it not been for my chance meeting with Swears, the eminent astronomer and objurgationist,
this book would never have been written. He asked me down to our basement, which he rents from
me as an observatory, and in spite of all that has happened since I still remember our wigil
very distinctly. (I spell it with a "w" from an inordinate affection for that letter.) Swears
moved about, invisible but painfully audible to my naked ear. The night was very warm, and
I was very thirsty. As I gazed through the syphon, the little star seemed alternately to expand
and contract, and finally to assume a sort of dual skirt, but that was simply because my eye
was tired. I remember how I sat under the table with patches of green and crimson swimming
before my eyes. Grotesque and foolish as this may seem to the sober reader, it is absolutely true.

Swears watched till one, and then he gave it up. He was full of speculations about the condition
of Wenus. Swears' language was extremely sultry.

"The chances against anything lady-like on Wenus," he said, "are a million to one."

Even Pearson's Weekly woke up to the disturbance at last, and Mrs. Lynn Linton contributed
an article entitled "What Women Might Do" to the Queen. A paper called Punch, if I remember
the name aright, made a pun on the subject, which was partially intelligible with the aid of
italics and the laryngoscope. For my own part, I was too much occupied in teaching my wife
to ride a Bantam, and too busy upon a series of papers in Nature on the turpitude of the classical
professoriate of the University of London, to give my undivided attention to the impending
disaster. I cannot divide things easily; I am an indivisible man. But one night I went for
a bicycle ride with my wife. She was a Bantam of delight, I can tell you, but she rode very
badly. It was starlight, and I was attempting to explain the joke in the paper called, if I
recollect aright, Punch. It was an extraordinarily sultry night, and I told her the names of
all the stars she saw as she fell off her machine. She had a good bulk of falls. There were
lights in the upper windows of the houses as the people went to bed. Grotesque and foolish
as this will seem to the sober reader, it is absolutely true. Coming home, a party of bean-feasters
from Wimbledon, Wormwood Scrubs, or Woking passed us, singing and playing concertinas. It all
seemed so safe and tranquil. But the Wenuses were even then on their milky way.

II.

THE FALLING STAR.

Then came the night of the first star. It was seen early in the morning rushing over Winchester;
leaving a gentle frou-frou behind it. Trelawny, of the Wells' Observatory, the greatest authority
on Meteoric Crinolines, watched it anxiously. Winymann, the publisher, who sprang to fame by
the publication of The War of the Worlds, saw it from his office window, and at once telegraphed
to me: "Materials for new book in the air." That was the first hint I received of the wonderful
wisit.

I lived in those days at 181a Campden Hill Gardens. It is the house opposite the third lamp-post
on the right as you walk east. It was of brick and slate, with a party-wall, and two spikes
were wanting to the iron railings. When the telegram came I was sitting in my study writing
a discussion on the atomic theory of Krelli of Balmoral. I at once changed the Woking jacket
in which I was writing for evening dress--which wanted, I remember, a button--and hastened
to the Park. I did not tell my wife anything about it. I did not care to have her with me.
In all such adventures I find her more useful as a sentimental figure in the background--I,
of course, allow no sentiment in the foreground--than an active participant.

On the way I met Swears, returning from breakfast with our mutual friend, Professor Heat Ray
Lankester--they had had Lee-Metford sardines and Cairns marmalade, he told me,--and we sought
the meteor together.

Find it we did in Kensington Gardens. An enormous dimple had been made by the impact of the
projectile, which lay almost buried in the earth. Two or three trees, broken by its fall, sprawled
on the turf. Among this débris was the missile; resembling nothing so much as a huge crinoline.
At the moment we reached the spot P.C. A581 was ordering it off; and Henry Pearson, aged 28
(no fixed abode), and Martha Griffin, aged 54, of Maybury Tenements, were circulating among
the crowd offering matches for sale. They have nothing to do with this story, but their names
and addresses make for verisimilitude; or at least, I hope so. In case they do not, let me
add that Mary Griffin wore a blue peignoir which had seen better days, and Herbert Pearson's
matches struck everywhere except on the box.

With a mental flash we linked the Crinoline with the powder puffs on Wenus. Approaching it
more nearly, we heard a hissing noise within, such as is made by an ostler, or Mr. Daimler
grooming his motor car.

"Good heavens!" said Swears, "there's a horse in it. Can't you hear? He must be half-roasted."

So saying he rushed off, fraught with pity, to inform the Secretary of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; while I hurried away to tell Pendriver the journalist, proposing
in my own mind, I recollect, that he should give me half the profits on the article.

Pendriver the journalist, so called to distinguish him from Hoopdriver the cyclist, was working
in his garden. He does the horticultural column for one of the large dailies.

"You've read about the disturbances in Venus?" I cried.

"What!" said Pendriver. He is as deaf as the Post, the paper he writes for.

"You've read about Venus?" I asked again.

"No," he said, "I've never been to Venice."

"Venus!" I bawled, "Venus!"

"Yes," said Pendriver, "Venus. What about it?"

"Why," I said, "there are people from Venus in Kensington Gardens."

"Venus in Kensington Gardens!" he replied. "No, it's not Venus; it's the Queen."

I began to get angry.

"Not the statue," I shouted. "Wisitors from Wenus. Make copy. Come and see! Copy! Copy!"

The word "copy" galvanised him, and he came, spade and all. We quickly crossed the Park once
more. Pendriver lives to the west of it, in Strathmore Gardens, and has a special permit from
his landlord to dig. We did not, for sufficient reasons, converse much. Many persons were now
hastening towards the strange object. Among them I noticed Jubal Gregg the butcher (who fortunately
did not observe me--we owed him a trifle of eighteen shillings, and had since taken to Canterbury
lamb from the Colonial Meat Stores), and a jobbing gardener, whom I had not recently paid.
I forget his name, but he was lame in the left leg: a ruddy man.

Quite a crowd surrounded the Crinoline when we arrived, and in addition to the match-vendors
already mentioned, there was now Giuseppe Mandolini, from Leather Lane, with an accordion and
a monkey. Monkeys are of course forbidden in Kensington Gardens, and how he eluded the police
I cannot imagine. Most of the people were staring quietly at the Crinoline, totally unaware
of its significance. Scientific knowledge has not progressed at Kensington by the same leaps
and bounds as at Woking. Extra-terrestrial had less meaning for them than extra-special.

We found Swears hard at work keeping the crowd from touching the Crinoline. With him was a
tall, red-haired man, who I afterwards learnt was Lee-Bigge, the Secretary of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. He had a summons and several officials with him, and
was standing on the Crinoline, bellowing directions in a clear, rich voice, occasionally impeded
by emotion, like an ox with a hiccough.

As soon as Swears saw me, he asked me to bring a policeman to assist him to keep back the crowd;
and I went away, proud to be so honoured, to find one. I was unsuccessful. P.C. A581 had gone
off duty; but another constable, I was told, had been seen, an hour or so earlier, asleep against
the railings,--it was a baker's boy who told me, just back from delivering muffins in St. Mary
Abbot's Terrace,--and had since wandered in the direction of the Albert Hall. I followed, but
could not see him in any of the areas, and therefore returned slowly by way of Queen's Gate,
Cromwell Road, Earl's Court Road, and Kensington High Street, hoping to meet another; and as
it was then about noon, I entered an A.B.C. and had half a pork-pie and a bucket of Dr. Jaeger's
Vi-cocolate. I remember the circumstance distinctly, because feeling rather hungry and wishing
to vary the menu, I asked the girl for half a veal-and-ham pie and she brought me the balance
of the original pasty; and when I remonstrated, she said that her directors recognised no essential
difference between veal-and-ham and pork.

III.

THE CRINOLINE EXPANDS.

When I returned to the Gardens the sun was at his zenith. The crowd around the Crinoline had
increased and some sort of a struggle seemed to be going on. As I drew near I heard Lee-Bigge's
voice:

"Keep back! keep back!"

A boy came running towards me.

"It's a-movin'," he said to me as he passed; "a-blowin' and a-blowin' out. Now we shan't be
long!" Passing on, I saw that it was indeed expanding. The ribs were more distended and the
covering more tightly stretched. The hissing had ceased and a creaking noise had taken its
place. There was evidently great pressure within. Once something resembling an en tout cas
was thrust through the top, making what was presumably an attempt to dislodge Lee-Bigge, and
then suddenly the Crinoline burst, revealing a wision of ultra-mundane loveliness.

I shall not attempt exhaustively to describe the indescribable. It is enough to assure the
sober reader that, grotesque and foolish as it may seem, this is absolutely true, and to record
that after the glimpse I had of the Wenuses emerging from the Crinoline in which they had come
to the earth from their planet, a kind of fascination paralysed my actions. All other men in
the crowd seemed to be similarly affected. We were battle-grounds of love and curiosity. For
the Wenuses were gorgeous: that is the sum of the matter.

Those who have never seen a living Wenus (there is a specimen in fairly good spirits in the
Natural History Museum) can scarcely imagine the strange beauty of their appearance. The peculiar
W-shaped mouth, the incessant nictitation of the sinister eyelid, the naughty little twinkle
in the eye itself, the glistening glory of the arms, each terminating in a fleshy digitated
Handling Machine resembling more than anything else a Number 6 glove inflated with air (these
members, by the way, have since been named rather aptly by that distinguished anatomist and
original dog, Professor Howes, the hands)--all combined to produce an effect akin to stupefaction.
I stood there ecstatic, unprogressive, immoderate; while swiftly and surely ungovernable affection
for all Wenuses gripped me.

Meanwhile I heard inarticulate exclamations on all sides.

"Shameless hussies!" cried a woman near me.

"By Jove, that's something like!" said a young man who had been reading Captain Coe's finals,
swinging round towards the Crinoline, with one foot arrested in mid-air.

