Now that all this is not gratis dictum, I think I can prove, even from most of those very Authors
I've already produc'd, as of the contrary Opinion; and that I can make it appear, Bossu goes
too far in fixing Fable as the Essential Fund and Soul of the principal Action in an Epic Poem.
To begin with Rapin, who has this Passage, sur la Poetique, Reflex. 5. La Poesie Heroique,
&c. "Heroique Poesie, according to Aristotle, is a Picture or Imitation of an Heroic Action;
and the Qualities of the Action are, That it ought to be (among others) true, or at least,
such as might pass for true;" Thus he. And hence it follows, according to him and Aristotle,
that the principal Action in Heroic, not only ought to pass for Truth, but may be really true:
For Horace, he does indeed call the Iliads a Fable; but then he does not oblige his Poet superstitiously
to follow Homer in every thing, owning that he sometimes doats as well as other Men: Further,
this may, and I think does, refer rather to the Dress and Turn of the Action, than to the Bottom
and Ground of his History, which there's at least as much, if not more reason to believe true
than false: And in the same Sense may we take Petronius and Boileau; nay, if we don't take
'em thus, I can't tell whether there were ever such a thing as a true Heroic Poem in the World;
not so much as the Fairy-Queen, Gondibert, or Orlando Furioso; all which have Fable enough
in 'em of any reason; but their principal Actions might be still true, as we are sure was that
of the best Heroic that ever was written; (I need not say I mean Virgil) since few or no Authors
ever deny'd that there was such a Man as Æneas, or even that he came into Italy, built Cities
there, and erected a Kingdom, which Tully mentions, as a generally receiv'd Tradition in those
Parts, and which it seems he thought not frivolous, but true and solid; otherwise he'd scarce
have given it a place in his Argument for his Client. Of this Opinion too seems Horace himself,
in his Art of Poetry, namely, That there's no necessity of the principal Action's being feign'd;
for his Direction is, "Aut famam sequere, aut sibi convenientia finge; Either follow Tradition
or Fame, or else feign what's agreeable thereunto." He makes not feigning essential to Heroic
Action, but gives leave to follow Fame, who is not so great a Lyar, but that she is sometimes
in the right. Nay, what if we should after all have Bossu himself on our side, which I'm mistaken
if he be not; for these are his Expressions, Lib. 1. Cap. 7. Le Fiction, &c. "The Fiction may
be so disguis'd under the Verity of the History, that those who are ignorant of the Art of
the Poet, may believe it not a Fiction; and to make the Disguisement well, he ought to search
into History for the Names of some Persons, to whom such an Action has probably or truly happen'd,
&c." Hence 'tis evident, that according to Bossu's own Notion, the main Action may be true;
which appears even from Aristotle himself, as quoted by him, 97. [Greek: Kan ara] &c. "An Author
is not less a Poet, because the Incidents he recites have truly happen'd; if so be that which
happen'd had the appearance of Truth, and all that Art demands, and be really such as it ought
to have been feign'd." And this Bossu himself illustrates admirably well by an ingenious Simile;
"A Statuary," says he, "first forms his Design, Posture, Altitudes which he intends for his
Image; but if he then lights on any precious Material, Agate, or such like, where the Figure,
the Colours, and Veins will not be accommodated to all he design'd, he regulates his Design
and Imagination according to his Matter; nor ought we to believe, at the same time, that these
singular lucky Hits condemn the Justness of his Art." From all which, I must leave it to the
Reader, whether I han't sufficiently prov'd what I've undertaken; that Fiction is not necessary
to the principal Action of our Heroic Poem; on which I've been something more large, not so
much on my own account; for 'tis indifferent to me by what Name any Man calls my Poem, so it
answers the great End of Epic, which is Instruction; but because I've heard some Persons have
been so conceited as to criticise on our immortal Cowley for this very reason, and deny his
Davideis the Honour of being an Heroic Poem, because the Subject thereof is a true History.

And here I should drop the Discourse of Fable, were there not another sort of Persons still
to deal with, perhaps more importunate than the former: The first will not like a Piece unless
'tis all Fable, or at least the Foundation of it: These latter run into the contrary extreme,
and seam unwilling or afraid to admit anything of Fable in a Christian Poem; and as Balzac
in his Critics on Heinsius his Baptista, are frighted, as at some Magical Charm, if they find
but one Word there which was made use of by the old Heathens; which, says he, (unluckily as
things have since happened) is as preposterous as to see Turks wear Hats, and Frenchmen Turbants;
the Flower-de-lis in the Musselmens Colours, or the Half-Moon on the Standard of France. He's,
however, it must be granted, justly angry with Tasso, as Mr. Dryden since, for setting his
Angels and Devils to stave and tail at one another; Alecto and Pluto on one side, and Gabriel
and Raphael o' t'other; as well as with Sannazarius, for mingling Proteus and David, and calling
the Muses and Nymphs to the Labour of the Blessed Virgin, Tho' the truth is, the Italian Poets
seem more excusable, at least to a Papist, in this Case, than any other Nation, who parted
with as little of their Idolatry as they could possibly, after they had kept it as long as
they were able, making the Change very easie, and turning their Pantheon into an All Saints;
much like the good Fathers in the Spanish Conquests in America, who suffer the Natives to keep
their Old Idols, so they'll but pay for 'em, and get 'em christen'd; by this means making many
a good Saint out of a very indifferent Devil. So far, I say, Balzac is undoubtedly in the right,
that Christianity and Heathenism ought not to be confounded, nor the Pagan Gods mention'd,
but as such, in Christian Poems. Of which Boileau also says, "They should not be Fill'd with
the Fictions of Idolatry;" tho' he tells us just before,

  In vain have our mistaken Authors try'd
  Those ancient Ornaments to lay aside.

As tho' he were afraid lest all Poets shou'd be forc'd to turn Christians, and yet in the next
Lines he thinks it full as bad,

  To fright the Reader in each Line with Hell,
  And talk of Satan, Ashtaroth and Bel.

As tho' he'd have no Christian to be a Poet. And much at the same rate is Monsieur Balzac very
angry with Buchanan, for the same reason; nor will he by any means let us substitute Belzebub,
Asmodeus, and Leviathan, in the room of Alecto, Tisiphone, and Megaera, which is, in his Opinion,
perfect Pedantry and Affectation; and is extreamly afraid, lest any of those Barbarous Hebrew
Words should disfigure the purity of the Latin Tongue; when surely he cou'd not but know, that
this pure Latin Tongue it self, for which he's so much concerned, is nothing but the gradual
Corruption or Barbarizing of the Greek; as that of the Phonician and Hebrew before; and the
Italian, and his own French too, from the Latin afterwards, by the adulterous mixture of 'tis
hard to say how many Languages: So that between 'em, they'd make it impossible for a Christian
Poet to write a good Heroic Poem, or even a Tragedy, on any, but profane Subjects; by taking
away all the Machines, and therein whatever is admirable. No, says Balzac, instead of those
hard Words and proper Names, Appellatives may be chosen, Words common to all People: As for
example, Ill luck instead of the Fates, and the Foul Fiend for Lucifer; and whether this wou'd
not sound extreamly Heroical, I leave any Man to judge: It being besides certain, that 'tis
singulars and particulars which give an Air of Probability, and the main Life and Beauty to
a Poem, especially of this Nature; without which it must of necessity sink and languish. However
so much of Truth, I must confess, there is in what he says, that I verily believe Magor-missabib,
or Mahershal-alhashbaz, wou'd scarce yoke decently in one of our Pentameters, but be near as
unquiet and troublesome there, as a Mount Orgueil it self. Nor can partiality so far blind
my Judgment as not to be my self almost frighted at second hearing of such a thundering Verse,
as Belsamen Ashtaroth Baaltii Ba'al: Which seems as flat Conjuration, as Zinguebar, Oran, &c.
tho' 'tis now too late to amend it. But then there are other Words or a more soft and treatable
Cadence, even in the same Hebrew Language, especially when mollified by a Latin or Greek form,
or Termination; and such as these one may make use of and let others alone: though neither
is our bolder rougher Tongue so much affrighted at them, as the French and Latin.

But Boileau pushes the Objection further, and wou'd make it bear against the Things as well
as Words, persuading himself,

  Our God and Prophets that he sent,
  Can't act like those the Poets did invent.

Tho' he too, is short in History, how excellent soever in Poetry. For first, the Heathen Poets
did not invent the Names of their Gods and Heroes, but had 'em from Eastern Tradition, and
the Phenician and Jewish Language, tho' deflected and disguis'd after the Greek and other Forms,
as Josephus tells us, which the learned Bochart has proved invincibly; and I have made some
Essay towards it, in my Sixth Book. Their Gods or Devils, which you please, were not near as
Antient as the Hebrews. The Word Satan is as ancient as Job; nor can they shew us a Pluto within
a long while of him. Ashtaroth, and Astarte, are old enough to be Grandmothers to their Isis,
or Venus, and Bel, of the same standing with Idolatry. Lawful it must certainly be, to use
these very Heathen Gods in Christian, since they were us'd in sacred Hebrew Poetry, in due
place, and in a due manner; Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, says Isaiah. And what a noble Description
has the same Prophet of the Fall of Lucifer? Nor can I see why it may not be as convenient
and agreeable, as 'tis lawful to transplant 'em from Hebrew Poetry to our own, if we use 'em
as they did. And then for Angels, Prophets, and Oracles, it wou'd be strange, if they shou'd
not strike the Mind as agreeably when real and true, as the Daemons, or Oracles, or Prophets
of the Heathens, form'd, as has been said, partly from mistaken Fragments, or Traditions of
sacred Story, partly indeed from the Juggles of the Heathen Priests, and crafty Ambitious Daemons.
On the whole, we have all the Advantages they had, and yet more than they, for Heroic Poetry
in these matters. As for that Question of Boileau's, "What Pleasure can it be to hear the howlings
of repining Lucifer?" And let any one read but his Speech, in Milton's Paradise, almost equall'd
in Mr. Dryden's State of Innocence, and I'm mistaken if he's not of the same Mind; or if he
be not, and it gives him no pleasure, I dare affirm 'tis for want of a true taste of what's
really admirable.

But Boileau comes to a stronger Objection, both against the Names and use of these Daemons,
by way of Machine, I mean, in Christian Poetry;

  The Mysteries we Christians must believe
  Disdain such shifting Pageants to receive.

Thus has his Translator turn'd him; and taking it in that Sence, the meaning must be, that
it disgraces Christianity, to mix its Mysteries with Stories of Daemons, Angels, &c. But sure
it can never be any disgrace, to represent it really as it is, with the frequent Intervention
of those invisible and powerful Agents, both good and evil, in the Affairs of Mankind, which
our Saviour has both asserted and demonstrated in his Gospel, both by Theory and Practice:
Whence we learn, that there are really vast numbers of these Spirits, some tempting, or tormenting,
others guarding and protecting Mortals: Nay, a subordination too among them, and that they
are always vigilant, some for our Destruction, others for our Preservation, and that, as it
seems, of every individual Man; and if this be true in general, I'm sure 'tis probable In particular:
Nor can it be any disgrace to Christianity, to apply general Probabilities to particular Cases,
or to mention these Daemons in Poetry any more than in Divinity.

But indeed the Translator has here mended Boileau's Thought, or at least made it more plausible
and defensible, tho he has miss'd his Sence; for these are his Lines:

  De la foi d'une Christien les Mysteres terribles
  D' Ornemens egayés ne sont point susceptibles.

The plain English of which, I think is, "That the terrible Mysteries of the Christian Faith,
are not at all susceptible of these gayer Ornaments." I'll not be too Critical here, tho' methinks
its but an odd sort of Gayety that's to be found in Tales of Hell; agreeable, I own, the most
dreadful thing nay be, if well manag'd in Poetry, but he can hardly ever make 'em gay without
a yery strong Catachresis. But tho' we let that pass, so must not what follows, wherein he
further explains his Notion. L'Evangile, &c.

  The Gospel offers nothing to our Thoughts
  But Penitence and Punishment for Faults.

To which it may be first said, that supposing this true, and the Gospel did present nothing
else, yet why mayn't Angels be us'd in it, to warn Sinners to that Repentance which we know
they so much rejoyce in; or Devils, to punish and torment the Guilty and Impious; as in the
Case of Sceva's Son, and others. But yet further, as to the assertion it self, I know not what
their Gospel offers, nor I believe are they better acquainted with what ours does; but we are
sure 'tis far enough from being such a dismal melancholy thing as they represent it, since
Immortality and Life are brought to light therein. We know that it gives us the noblest Examples,
the most divine Law, the strongest, yet justest Passions, the most glorious Combats, and Friendships,
and Sufferings, such as neither History or Fable cou'd ever yet equal. It shews us a God really
Descending, disrob'd indeed of all his more dazling and insupportable Glories, as our Divine
Herbert; but yet clothed with what has more of true Divinity, with Humility, and Charity, and
Patience, and Meekness, and Innocence. Here's War, here's Love indeed; such as never was besides,
or will be more. He lov'd our Dust and Clay, and even for us, single encounter'd all the Powers
of Darkness, and yet more, his Almighty Father's anger. But I'll go no farther, lest the Reader
should think I forget where I am. I must return to Boileau, whose strongest Objection is yet
behind; Et de vos Fictions, &c.

  And mingling Falshood with those Mysteries
  Wou'd make our sacred Truths appear like Lies.

But I hope the Critic knew, that there is a fair difference between a mere Fiction, or Falshood,
and an Instructive Parable or Fable, on one side, or a few more lively Poetical Colours on
the other. To mingle Falshoods, or dull Legendary Fictions, without either Life or Soul in
'em, with our Saviour's Blessed Gospel, may make 'em, in some Sence, superiour to it: This
wou'd indeed incline an Italian to be of the same Faith with his Countryman, that 'twas all
Fabula Christi, in the worst Sence of the Word: But certainly expressing the Truth in Parables,
and mingling these with the Mysteries of the Gospel, can't be thought to give it an Air of
Fiction: nor dare any affirm it does so, without Blasphemy, since our Saviour has so often
done it. Nor only these but deeper Allegories are thought to be made use of in the Christian
Religion; for Example, the Throne and Temple of God in the Revelations, and the Description
of the New Jerusalem, with all its Gates and Foundations of Sapphires and Emeralds, and that
lovely Scheme of Trees and Rivers, worthy a Paradise: All this, I say, will scarcely be granted
literal, and consequently must be all an Allegory; alluding partly to the Old Jewish Church
and Temple, partly to Ezekiel's Visionary Representation and Prophetical Paradise. Nor can
it, I think, be justly reckoned more criminal, where we have any great instructive Example,
which has been real matter of Fact, to expatiate thereon; adding suitable and proper Circumstances
and Colours to the whole, especially when the History it self is but succinctly Related, and
the Heads of things only left us. And this some great Man have thought was the Method of the
Holy Pen-man himself, whoever he were, in that lovely antient Poem of Job; which, that 't was
at the bottom a real History, few but Atheists deny; and yet 'tis thought some Circumstances
might be amplified in the account we have left us, particularly the long Speeches between that
Great Man and his Friends; tho' the main hinges of the Relation, his Person, Character, and
Losses, the malice of the Devil, the behaviour of his Wife and Friends, nay even the Substance
of their Discourses, as well as of that between God and him, and the wonderful Turn of his
Affairs soon after: All this might, and did, truly happen. Or, if any amplification should
be here deny'd, does not the Divine however every day, Paraphrase and Expatiate upon the Words
of his Text, inverting their Method as he sees occasion, and yet is still thought unblameable.
All the difference is, that he delivers what's probable, as only probable; whereas the Nature
of Poetry requires, that such probable Amplifications as these, be wrought into the main Action,
in such a manner, as if they had really happen'd; and without this, a Man might Ryme long enough,
but ne'er cou'd make a Poem, any more than this would have been one, had I begun with, Abraham
begat Isaac, and so tagg'd on to the end of all the fourteen Generations, much as Nonnus has
done with St. John, and yet often miss'd his Sence too, as Heinsius judges.

But enough of Fable, and of those who would either reduce all Heroic Poetry unto it, or absolutely
banish it thence.

Next the Fable of Epics, the Poem is to be considered; which, after Bossu, is the other part
of its general Nature, and shews the manner of handling it, comprehending Thoughts, Expressions
and Verses; of which there need not much be said, since they are obvious to every Reader. The
Thoughts must be clear and just, and noble, and the Diction or Expression suited to them. The
chief Difficulty, as Rapin observes, is to keep up the Sublime, which Virgil has done admirably,
even in the meanest Subjects; and which Aristotle thinks may be best done by the judicious
use of Metaphors. There ought to meet, according to him, Proportion in the Design, Justness
in the Thoughts, and Exactness in the Expression, to constitute an accomplish'd Heroic Poem;
and the great Art of Thought and Expression lies in this, that they be natural and proper without
Meanness, and sublime without a vitious Swelling and Affectation.

The Matter is next in an Heroic Poem, which must be one important Action; it must be important,
Res gestæ Regumque Ducumque, with Horace. "It only speaks of Kings and Princes," says Rapin,
by which he must mean that it chiefly and principally turns upon them: for both Virgil and
Homer have occasion for Traitors, and Cryers, and Beggars, nay even Swineherds (in the Odysses),
and yet still more, of whole Armies, which can't be all compos'd of Kings and Princes. However,
the more there is of these lower Walks in the Plan of a Design, the less Heroic it must appear,
even in the Hands of the greatest Genius in Nature. Such a Genius, I think, was Homer's, and
yet the Truth of this Assertion will be plain to any who compares his Odysses with his Iliads;
where he'll find, if 'tis not for want of Judgment, in the latter a very different Air from
the former, in many places much more dead and languishing, and this which I have given, seems
one probable Reason on't; not excluding that of Longinus, that Homer was then grown old, and
besides too much of the Work was spent in Narration; to which may be added, that he here design'd
a wise and prudent rather than a brave and fighting Hero, having wrought off most of the Edg
and Fury of his Youthful Spirit and Fury in Achilles, as in Ulysses he express'd more of Age
and Judgment.

This Action must be one and uniform: the Painture of one Heroic Action, says Rapin from Aristotle.
It must be, as Bossu from Horace, simplex duntaxat & unum, that is, the principal Action on
which the whole Work moves ought to be one, otherwise the whole will be confus'd; tho' there
may be many Episodic Actions without making what Aristotle calls an Episodic Poem, which is,
where the Actions are not necessarily or not probably link'd to each other, and of such an
irregular multiplication of Actions and Incidents. Bossu instances very pleasantly in Statius's
Achilleid; but he tells us there's also a regular and just Multiplication, without which 'twere
impossible to find matter for so large a Poem, when as before it's so ordered that the Unity
of the whole is not broken, and consequently divers Incidents it has bound together are not
to be accounted different Actions and Fables, but only different Parts not finish'd, or entire
of one Action or Fable entire or finished: and, agreeable to this Doctrine, Rapin blames Lucan's
Episodes as too far-fetch'd, over-scholastic, and consisting purely of speculative Disputes
on natural Causes whenever they came in his way, not being link'd with the main Action, nor
flowing naturally from it, nor tending to its Perfection.

And in this Action, the Poet ought, as Rapin tells us, to invert the natural Order of things,
not to begin with his Hero in the Cradle, and write his Annals instead of an Epic Poem, as
Statius in his Achilleid, the Reason of which seems plain, because this would look more like
History than Poetry. It's more agreeable, more natural, in some Sence, to be here unnatural;
to bring in, by way of Recitation or Narration, what was first in order of time, at some distance
from that time when it really happened, which makes the whole look unlike a dull formal Story,
and gives more scope for handsome Turns and the Art of the writer. Another Reason why a whole
Life is not ordinarily a proper Subject for Epics, is, because many trivial Accidents must
be therein recited; but if a Life can be found in which is nothing but what's diverting and
wonderful, tending besides to the perfecting the main Action, and the Order of time revers'd
in the whole, the Case would be so much altered, that I think their Rules would not hold.

For the Form of Epic, which comes next in view, 'tis agreed on all Hands to be Recitation or
Narration. Bossu says, The Persons are not at all to be introduced before the Eyes of the Spectators,
acting by themselves without the Poet; not that he'd hereby exclude the Poet from introducing
the persons telling their own Story, or some one of them that of the principal Hero: for great
part of Epic is thus far Dramatic. And thus Virgil manages his second and third Books by way
of Recitation, and that by his Hero himself, making him give Dido a long account of the Wars
of Troy, and his own Actions, tho' thereby he falls into the Impropriety of commending himself,
with a--sum pius Æneas. Vida takes the same way of Recitation, wherein he employs two or three
of his six Books; and Milton follows them both, tho' less naturally than either; for he introduces
our Saviour, in his Paradise regain'd, repeating a great part of his own Life in Soliloquy,
which way of Discourse includes, in a Wise Man especially, so much of Calmness and deep Reflection,
that it seems improper for the great and noble Turn required in such a Work, unless in describing
a Passion, where it may be more lively. All that they mean by not introducing the Parties,
is not doing it as in a Tragedy: they are not to be brought in abruptly to tell their own Tale
from the beginning, without the appearing Help of the Poet, as Actors in a true and proper
Drama. And this Narration, says Rapin, should be simple and natural; but the greatest difficulty
is, not to let its Simplicity appear, lest it thence grow disagreeable, and the chiefest Art
in this, consists in its Transitions, and all the delicate surprising Turns, which lead the
Reader from one thing to another without his thinking whither he's going, or perceiving any
Breach or so much as a passage between 'em; after all, the more Action there is in Epic, still
the more Life there will be. A Poet may, I find, easily fall into Poorness of Thought by aiming
too much at the Probability and neglecting the Admirable; whereby he loses that agreeableness
which is a mixture of both. He ought then to take more care than some have done, not to keep
himself too long behind the Scenes, and trust the Narration with another, which, without a
great deal of Art and Pains, will take off much of the Life of the Work, as Longinus has already
formerly observed.

And here come in the Qualities of Narration, mentioned in our Definition, that it ought to
be done in a manner probable, agreeable, and admirable; 'tis rendered probable by its Simplicity
and Singularity, and admirable by the Grandeur of the Subject, the Figures and Machines, or
[Greek: theoi apo mêchanês], much more lawful here than in the Drama's; and lastly agreeable,
as has been said, by a mixture of both.

The last thing in our Definition, is, the End of Epic, indeed the first and principal which
ought to be intended, and that's Instruction, not only, as Rapin thinks, of great Men, but
of all, as in Virgil's Scheme, which we have already described; and, this either by the principal
Moral aim'd at in the whole, or the Manners of particular Persons. Of Fable and Moral, I've
already discours'd, and whether be the more lively and probable way to instruct, by that or
History. But here it may be worth the while to enquire, whether the principal Hero in Epic
ought to be virtuous? Bossu thinks not, the manners being formed as well by seeing Errors as
Beauties in the chief Actors; but yet methinks it seems too much to form a Hero that's a perfect
Almanzor, with not one spark of Vertue, and only remarkable for his extraordinary Strength
and little Brains; such was certainly Homer's Achilles, of whom I think the Father was in the
right when he observes, the Poet makes him not do one brave or virtuous Action, all the while
he lies before the Town: whereas Virgil's Hero, is, to tell truth, an indifferent good Heathen,
and, bating one or two slips, comes up pretty well to his own good word. The same however may
be said for Homer, which our present Dramatists plead for their Excuse; that he copied his
Hero from those who were esteemed such in the barbarous Age in which he liv'd,

  Impiger, iracundus, inexorabllis, acer,
  Jura neget sibi nata, &c.

Made up of Lewdness, Love, and Fighting: who, had he liv'd in our Days, would have made an
excellent Town Bully, I wish there were not too much reason to say a modish Gentleman. But
tho' old Homer took this way, Virgil, who writes with much more Judgment and Exactness, and
follows him in many things, here thought fit to leave him; making his Hero, as I've said, not
only brave and prudent, but for the most part virtuous. Which would much better form the manners
of his Reader, than if they were set to spell out Instruction from contraries, as Homer has
done. Whence it follows, the more virtuous a Hero is, the better; since he more effectually
answers the true end of Epics. After all, Rapin says, the chief Excellency of an Heroic Poem
consists in the just proportion of the Parts; that perfect Union, just Agreement, and admirable
Relation, which the Parts of this great Work bear one towards another; and blames Tasso for
mingling all the Sweetness and Delicacy of Eclogues and Lyricks, with the Force of an Heroic
Poem. But I should think him mistaken here, and that this is not the meaning of Aristotles
[Greek: analogon]. For if we allow not such a pleasing Variety, how shall we excuse even Virgil
himself, who has his Dido, as well a Tasso his Armida and Erminia? nay, how shall we manage
Love? which is usually one great Episode of Heroic, if not with something of Delicacy. I grant
Love ought to have a different Air in different sorts of Poems; but still if it be natural
it must have something of Softness; and for his Enchanted Forrest, which this severe Critic
also blames, I believe there's few who read that part of his Work, who would willingly have
it omitted, for the sake of a fancied Regularity, any more than they would part with Mr. Dryden's
Improvement on't in his King Arthur. However, if it be a fault, 'tis strange so many who have
been Masters of the greatest Genius should unanimously fall into it; as Ovid in his Palace
of Circe, Ariosto in that of Alcina, and Spencer in his Acasia's Bower of Bliss, and several
others, who have taken the same Method. I should therefore rather think that this beautiful
and marvellous Analogy which Aristotle requires as the best thing in Epic, relates rather to
the Harmony and Agreement of the Parts with the Whole; so that there appears no Fracture or
Contradiction, the different Parts, tho' much unlike, yet all together making one beautiful
Figure and uniform Variety.

And thus much of the Definition of Epic, containing the main Rules thereof, by which the Reader
may be able to form a Judgment of this, or any other Heroic Poem: Especially if to these Rules
be added some Examples to render them more plain. In order to which, I desire to express my
Thoughts freely of other Poems, as I must expect every one will do of mine, always observing
that piece of Justice, never to find fault, without taking notice of some Beauty to ballance
it, and giving, where I can find it, the better Judgment of other Persons as well as my own.
Concluding all with a brief Account of my own Work.

To begin then with Grandsire Homer, this may be added to the particular Remarks that have been
already made. I think none will deny but the Disposition of his Iliads, is so truly admirable,
so regular, and exact, that one would be apt to think he wrote his Poem by Aristotle's Rules,
and not Aristotle his Rules by his Poem. I confess, I once thought that he had been oblig'd
to his Commentators for most of the Beauties they celebrated in him; but I am now, on a nearer
view, so well satisfied to the contrary, that I can ne'er think his Poem writ by piece-meal,
without any Connexion or Dependance: wherein Dionysius the Halicarnassian very justly praises
the Order and Management of the Design, as well as the Grandeur and Magnificence of the Expression,
and the sweet and passionate Movements. Nor is it without Reason that Horace, Longinus, and
all Antiquity have given him, as the Model of just and noble Sentiments and Expressions. I
must confess there's something in his Numbers that strikes me more than even Virgil's, his
Thoughts and Expressions appear stronger than his, tho' it cannot be denied but that Virgil's
Design is much more regular. Rapin says a great deal of that Prince of the Latin Poets, tho'
indeed he can never say enough, "He had an admirable Taste, says he, of what's natural, an
excellent Judgment for the Order, and an incomparable Delicacy for the Number and Harmony of
his Versification." And adds, "That the Design of the Poem is, if we consider it in all its
Circumstances, the most judicious and best-laid that ever was or ever will be." There is indeed
a prodigious Variety in Virgil, and yet the same Soul visible in every Line. His own great
Spirit informs his Poetical World, and like that he speaks of,

    ---- totos infusa per Artus
  Mens agitat Molem, & magno se corpora miscet.

He's soft with the height of Majesty, his Marcellus, his Dido, and, I think, above all, his
Elegy on Pallas is very noble and tender. The joints so strong and exactly wrought, the Parts
so proportionable, the Thoughts and Expression so great, the Complements so fine and just,
that I could ne'er endure to read Statius, or any of the rest of the Antient Latins after him;
with whom therefore I shan't concern my self nor trouble my Reader. Ariosto was the first of
the Moderns who attempted any thing like an Heroic Poem, and has many great and beautiful Thoughts;
but at the same time, 'tis true, as Balzac observes, that you can hardly tell whether he's
a Christian or an Heathen, making God swear by Styx, and using all the Pagan Ornaments; his
Fancy very often runs away with his Judgment, his Action is neither one nor simple, nor can
you imagine what he drives at; he has an hundred Hero's but you can't tell which he designs
should be chief: Orlando indeed seems a wild Imitation of Homer's Achilles, but his Character
is not bright enough to make him the Principal; and besides he orders it so, that he does more
great Actions when he's mad then when sober. Agreeable to this are Rapin's thoughts of him,
which, in few words, are "That he's elevated and admirable in his Expressions, his Descriptions
fine, but that he wants Judgment; and speaks well, but thinks ill, and that tho' the Parts
are handsome enough, yet the whole Work can by no means pass for an Epic Poem, he having never
seen the Rules of Aristotle;" which he thinks Tasso had, and therefore wrote much better, whom
he commends as more correct in his Design, more regular in the ordering his Fable, and more
accomplish'd in all parts of his Poem than any other of the Italians, whom yet he justly blames,
because he has two Hero's Godfredo and Rinaldo, of whom Godfredo seems the principal, and yet
Rinaldo performs the greatest part of the notable Actions. He seems to imitate Agamemnon and
Achilles, but then he raises his Agamemnon too high, or keeps him too low, for he hardly lets
him do one great Action through the whole Work. He further criticises upon him as mingling
too much Gallantry with his Poem, which, he thinks, is unbecoming the Gravity of his Subject.
But whether this Censure be just, I know not, for Love and Gallantry runs through all Virgil's
Æneids, in the Instances of Helen, Dido, and Lavinia, and indeed it gives so great a Life to
Epic, that it hardly can be agreeable without it, and I question whether ever it has been so.
Nor is he more just, I think, against Tasso's Episodes, which he blames as not proper to circumstantiate
his principal Action, not entring into the Causes and Effects thereof, but seeking too much
to please, tho' I think this Charge is unjust, for 'tis in his Episodes, if any where, that
Tasso is admirable. I might here give several Instances, but shall, at present, only refer
my Reader to that of Tancred and Erminia, and I'm mistaken if he does not dissent from Rapin
in this particular. Sannazarius and Vida were the next who did any thing remarkable in Epic;
they both writ in Latin on the same Subject, both Christian Heroics; Rapin says they both had
a good Genius for Latin, the Purity of their Style being admirable, but that their ordering
of the Fable has nothing in't of Delicacy, nor is the manner of their Writing proportionable
to the dignity of the Subject. For Sannazarius he's indeed so faulty, that one can hardly with
Patience read him, the whole Structure of his imperfect Piece, de partu, being built on Heathen
Fable; yet he has great and vigorous Thoughts and very Poetical Expressions, tho' therein Vida
far excels him, whose Thoughts are so noble, and the Air of his Stile so great, that the Elogy
Balzac gives his Countryman Tasso, wou'd as well or rather better have fitted him; "That Virgil
is the Cause, Vida is not the first; and Vida, that Virgil is not alone." It is true, as Rapin
observes, that his Fable is very simple, and perhaps so much the better, considering the Subject;
tho' he forgets not Poetical Ornaments, where there's occasion, if he does not lean a little
to Sannazarius's Error; for he talks of the Gorgons and Sphinxes, the Centaurs and Hydra's
and Chimera's, though much more sparingly and modestly than the other. He has the happiest
beginning that perhaps is to be found in any Poem, and by mingling his Proposition and Invocation,
has the advantage of placing one of the noblest Thoughts in the World in the first Line, without
danger of falling into the absurdity of Horace's Author with his Fortunam Priami: For thus
he sings,

  Qui mare, qui terras, qul coelum numine comples
  Spiritus alme, &c.

