I am pleased with Gabrielle's letter; it shows me what things will be laid upon the heart of
France when these events are at an end. A touching letter from Pierre, cured at last of his
terrible wound. A splendid letter from Grandmother. How she longs for our meeting again! I
cannot speak of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I finish this letter by the waterside, recalling with delight the joys I used to have in painting.
Before me are the sparkling rays of spring.

April 3 (post-card).

Only a word from the second line. We are in the spring woods. Sun and rain at play in the sky.
Courage through all.

April 3 (2nd letter).

I wish I had written you better letters in these days, every minute of which has been sweet
to me, even when we were in the front line. But I confess that I was satisfied just to let
myself live in the beauty of the days, serene days in spite of the clamours of war. We know
nothing of what is to happen. But there is more movement--coming and going. Shall we have to
bear the shock again?

Think what it was for us when we were last in the front line, to have to spend whole days in
the dug-out that the odious bombardment had compelled us to hollow out of the hillside ten
metres deep. I cannot tell what thrill woke those notes within us. They seemed to kindle great
lights in the cave. We forgot the Chinese torture of being unable to lie, or sit, or stand.

The life of a sergeant in billets is really quite pleasant. But I take no advantage. As to
the front, I hope Providence will give me strength of heart to do my duty there to the very
end. A good friend of mine, who was my section-chief, has been appointed adjutant to our company.
This is all trivial enough; but, dearest, I am in a rather feeble state; I was not well after
the events of last month. So I let myself glide over the gentle slopes of my life. Suppose
one comes to skirt a precipice? May Providence keep us away from the edge!

April 4.

DARLING MOTHER,--A time of anxious waiting, big with the menace of near things. Meanwhile,
however, idleness and quiet. I am not able to think, and I give myself up to my fate. Beloved,
don't find fault with me if for a month past I have been below the mark. Love me, and tell
our friends to love me.

Did you get my photograph? It was taken at the fortunate time of our position here, when we
were having peaceful days, with no immediate enemy except the cold. A few days later I was
made corporal, and my life became hard enough, burdened with very ungrateful labours. After
that, the storm; and the lights of that storm are still bright in my life.

April 4, evening of Easter Sunday.

DEAR MOTHER,--We are again in the immediate care of God. At two o'clock we march towards the
storm. Beloved, I think of you, I think of you both. I love you, and I entrust the three of
us to the Providence of God. May everything that happens find us ready! In the full power of
my soul, I pray for this, on your behalf, on mine: hope through all; but, before all else,
Wisdom and Love.

I kiss you, without more words. All my mind is now set upon the hard work to be done.

April 5, 1 o'clock A.M.

DEAR MOTHER AND DEAR GRANDMOTHER,--We are off. Courage. Wisdom and Love. Perhaps all this is
ordained for the good of all. I can but send you my whole love. My life is lived in you alone.

April 5, towards noon.

DEAR MOTHER,--We are now to be put to the proof. Up to this moment there has been no sign that
mercy was failing us. It is for us to strive to deserve it. This afternoon we shall need all
our resolution, and we shall have to call upon the supreme Wisdom for help.

Dear beloved Mother, dear Grandmother, I wish I could still have the delight of getting your
letters. Let us pray that we may be strengthened even in what is before us now.

Dear Darling, once more all my love for you both.

YOUR SON.

April 6, noon.

DEAR BELOVED MOTHER,--It is mid-day, and we are at the forward position, in readiness. I send
you my whole love. Whatever comes to pass, life has had its beauty.

It was in the fight of this day, April 6, that the writer of these letters disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to His Majesty at the Edinburgh University Press

       *       *       *       *       *

Periods added to a few date-lines to conform to rest of text.

Page 95, A space in the text was replaced with "us as". This has been surmised. "moves us as
a Breughel . . ."