It will be readily seen that the cases which come before the society must be very numerous:
during the nine years of its existence it has investigated 13,077 complaints, involving 52,308
children, prosecuted 4,035 cases, convicted 3,637 offenders, rescued and placed in homes or
institutions 7,555 children. In the last three years it has temporarily sheltered and clothed
1,092 children and furnished them with 9,309 meals. These figures acquire a singular force
when one reads in the annual reports the curious history of these cases setting forth the facts
in detail. In 1882 the magistrates of the city issued 1,267 warrants. On the information furnished,
834 children were held in custody, 1,040 released. The city of New York is compelled to pay
for the support of children thus committed to custody. A saving of $108,160 has therefore been
realized to the benefit of the tax-payers of New York. In 1883 they received 2,966 complaints;
there were 1,176 prosecutions and 1,128 convictions; 2,008 children were placed in institutions
of charity. Of 2,341 children arrested 1,078 were held, 1,263 released.

The resources of the society are derived exclusively from the liberality of the public. It
receives no aid either from the State or city. On the contrary, it pay taxes even on the water
used in the care of the children in its charge. The account of receipts and expenditures amounts
to about $17,000. Of the $43,000 which its building cost, $25,000 remain on mortgage. The field
in which the society employs its activity is already large, and is rapidly extending. It endeavors
to obtain from the legislature laws which will defeat the aims of those too numerous enterprises
which, under color of charity, utilize young children, for example, the baby farms and those
establishments (called hospitaliers) which have neither the means nor the facilities necessary
to their proper conduct. It requires that children shall not be employed in manual labor before
the age of fourteen years, and only after their physical capability has been certified to by
a physician. It insists on the prohibition of all dangerous occupations. The former articles
in this Bulletin on the abuses which exist in the industrial employment of children in New
York show how justifiable is this action of the society. "Thousands of children," says Mr.
Gerry, "die of diseases contracted in these injurious employments; in this respect our nation
is far behind Europe in its means of affording protection to children. In France, severe laws
have been in operation since 1841. England has promptly followed this example, and like the
English legislation, that of France expressly forbids the employment of children in the manufacture
of dangerous substances, of a nature poisonous or explosive. You have only to visit our hospitals
to see the little creatures with hand or fingers mutilated, from being employed at too early
an age in the operation of machinery. Our negligence makes manifest the wisdom of the French
law, whose lesson is so necessary with us." This needed progress will without doubt be made,
and the society will continue with increased zeal its charitable work. It gives to the legislator
the benefit of a practical experience in the work, to the child its powerful advocacy in the
courts, to justice the impartiality of prudent investigations, to public opinion the assurance
of the proper conduct of charitable institutions and an impulse in the direction of improvement.
It is thus that in this land of enterprise, whose customs are adverse to permitting affairs
even of the gravest importance, like the prosecution of crimes or the direction of works of
benevolence, to be concentrated in the hands of public officials, the consequences of self-government
have been happily corrected in points where they would otherwise become extreme, in regard
to children. The New York society is therefore well described by its worthy president, Mr.
Elbridge T. Gerry, as "the Hand of Protection." And this hand is too charitable for us to forbear
to give it a cordial pressure across the vast expanse of the Atlantic.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MIDDLESEX CANAL.

BY LORIN L. DAME, A.M.

The curious traveller may still trace with little difficulty the line of the old Middlesex
canal, with here and there a break, from the basin at Charlestown to its junction with the
Merrimac at Middlesex village. Like an accusing ghost, it never strays far from the Boston
& Lowell Railroad, to which it owes its untimely end.

At Medford, the Woburn sewer runs along one portion of its bed, the Spot pond water-pipes another.
The tow-path, at one point, marks the course of the defunct Mystic Valley Railroad; at others,
it has been metamorphosed into sections of the highway; at others, it survives as a cow-path
or woodland lane; at Wilmington, the stone sides of a lock have become the lateral walls of
a dwelling-house cellar.

Judging the canal by the pecuniary recompense it brought its projectors, it must be admitted
a dismal failure; yet its inception was none the less a comprehensive, far-reaching scheme,
which seemed to assure a future of ample profits and great public usefulness. Inconsiderable
as this work may appear compared with the modern achievements of engineering, it was, for the
times, a gigantic undertaking, beset with difficulties scarcely conceivable to-day. Boston
was a small town of about twenty thousand inhabitants; Medford, Woburn, and Chelmsford were
insignificant villages; and Lowell was as yet unborn, while the valley of the Merrimac, northward
into New Hampshire, supported a sparse agricultural population. But the outlook was encouraging.
It was a period of rapid growth and marked improvements. The subject of closer communication
with the interior early became a vital question. Turnpikes, controlled by corporations, were
the principal avenues over which country produce, lumber, firewood, and building-stone found
their way to the little metropolis. The cost of entertainment at the various country inns,
the frequent tolls, and the inevitable wear and tear of teaming, enhanced very materially the
price of all these articles. The Middlesex canal was the first step towards the solution of
the problem of cheap transportation. The plan originated with the Hon. James Sullivan, who
was for six years a judge of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, attorney-general from 1790
to 1807, and governor in 1807 and 1808, dying while holding the latter office.

A brief glance at the map of the New England States will bring out in bold relief the full
significance of Sullivan's scheme. It will be seen that the Merrimac river, after pursuing
a southerly course as far as Middlesex village, turns abruptly to the north-east. A canal from
Charlestown mill-pond to this bend of the river, a distance of 27-1/4 miles, would open a continuous
water-route of eighty miles to Concord, N.H. From this point, taking advantage of Lake Sunapee,
a canal could easily be run in a north-westerly direction to the Connecticut at Windsor, Vt.;
and thence, making use of intermediate streams, communication could be opened with the St.
Lawrence. The speculative mind of Sullivan dwelt upon the pregnant results that must follow
the connection of Boston with New Hampshire and possibly Vermont and Canada. He consulted his
friend, Col. Baldwin, sheriff of Middlesex, who had a natural taste for engineering, and they
came to the conclusion that the plan was feasible. Should the undertaking succeed between Concord
and Boston, the gradual increase in population and traffic would in time warrant the completion
of the programme. Even should communication never be established beyond Concord, the commercial
advantages of opening to the market the undeveloped resources of upper New Hampshire would
be a sufficient justification. Accordingly, James Sullivan, Loammi Baldwin, Jonathan Porter,
Samuel Swan, and five members of the Hall family at Medford, petitioned the General Court for
an act of incorporation. A charter was granted, bearing date of June 22, 1793, "incorporating
James Sullivan, Esq., and others, by the name of the Proprietors of the Middlesex Canal," and
on the same day was signed by His Excellency John Hancock, Governor of the Commonwealth. By
this charter the proprietors were authorized to lay such assessments from time to time as might
be required for the construction of the canal.

At their first meeting the proprietors intrusted the management of the corporation to a board
of thirteen members, who were to choose a president and vice-presidents from their own number,
the entire board subject to annual election. Boston capitalists subscribed freely, and Russell,
Gore, Barrell, Craigie, and Brooks appear among the earliest directors. This board organized
on the 11th of October by the choice of James Sullivan as president, and Col. Baldwin and John
Brooks (afterwards Gov. Brooks) as vice-presidents. The first step was to make the necessary
surveys between the Charlestown basin and the Merrimac at Chelmsford; but the science of engineering
was in its infancy, and it was difficult to find a competent person to undertake the task.
At length Samuel Thompson, of Woburn, was engaged to make a preliminary survey; but the directors,
not wholly satisfied with his report, afterwards secured the services of Samuel Weston, an
eminent English engineer, then employed in Pennsylvania on the Potomac canals. His report,
made Aug. 2, 1794, was favorable; and it is interesting to compare his figures with those of
Mr. Thompson. As calculated by Thompson, the ascent from Medford bridge to the Concord river,
at Billerica, was found to be 68-1/2 ft.; the actual difference in level, as found by Weston,
was 104 ft. By Thompson's survey there was a further ascent of 16-1/2 ft. to the Merrimac;
when, in fact, the water at Billerica bridge is almost 25 ft. above the Merrimac at Chelmsford.

Col. Baldwin, who superintended the construction of the canal, removed the first turf, Sept.
10, 1794. The progress was slow and attended with many embarrassments. The purchase of land
from more than one hundred proprietors demanded skilful diplomacy. Most of the lands used for
the canal were acquired by voluntary sale, and conveyed in fee-simple to the corporation. Sixteen
lots were taken under authority of the Court of Sessions; while for thirteen neither deed nor
record could be found when the corporation came to an end. Some of the land was never paid
for, as the owner refused to accept the sum awarded. The compensation ranged from about $150
an acre in Medford to $25 in Billerica. The numerous conveyances are all in Sullivan's handwriting.

Labor was not easily procured, probably from the scarcity of laborers, as the wages paid, $10
a month and board, were presumably as much as could be earned in manual labor elsewhere. "An
order was sent to England for a levelling instrument made by S. & W. Jones, of London, and
this was the only instrument used for engineering purposes after the first survey by Weston."
Two routes were considered; the rejected route was forty years later selected for the Lowell
Railroad. The canal, 30 ft. wide, 4 ft. deep, with 20 locks, 7 aqueducts, and crossed by 50
bridges, was, in 1802, sufficiently completed for the admission of water, and the following
year was opened to public navigation from the Merrimac to the Charles. Its cost, about $500,000,
of which one-third was for land damages, was but little more than the estimate. Commencing
at Charlestown mill-pond, it passed through Medford, crossing the Mystic by a wooden aqueduct
of 100 ft., to Horn pond in Woburn. Traversing Woburn and Wilmington it crossed the Shawshine
by an aqueduct of 137 ft., and struck the Concord, from which it receives its water, at Billerica
Mills. Entering the Concord by a stone guard-lock, it crossed, with a floating tow-path, and
passed out on the northern side through another stone guard-lock; thence it descended 27 ft.,
in a course of 5-1/4 miles, through Chelmsford to the Merrimac, making its entire length 27-1/4 m.

The proprietors made Charlestown bridge the eastern terminus for their boats, but ultimately
communication was opened with the markets and wharves upon the harbor, through Mill Creek,
over a section of which Blackstone street now extends.

As the enterprise had the confidence of the business community, money for prosecuting the work
had been procured with comparative ease. The stock was divided into 800 shares, and among the
original stockholders appear the names of Ebenezer and Dudley Hall, Oliver Wendall, John Adams
of Quincy, Peter C. Brooks of Medford, and Andrew Craigie of Cambridge. The stock had steadily
advanced from $25 a share in the autumn of 1794 to $473 in 1803, the year the canal was opened,
touching $500 in 1804. Then a decline set in, a few dollars at a time, till 1816, when its
market value was $300 with few takers, although the canal was in successful operation, and,
in 1814, the obstructions in the Merrimac had been surmounted, so that canal boats, locking
into the river at Chelmsford, had been poled up stream as far as Concord.

Firewood and lumber always formed a very considerable item in the business of the canal. The
navy-yard at Charlestown and the shipyards on the Mystic form any years relied upon the canal
for the greater part of the timber used in shipbuilding; and work was sometimes seriously retarded
by low water in the Merrimac, which interfered with transportation. The supply of oak and pine
about Lake Winnipiseogee, and along the Merrimac and its tributaries, was thought to be practically
inexhaustible. In the opinion of Daniel Webster, the value of this timber had been increased
$5,000,000 by the canal. Granite from Tyngsborough, and agricultural products from a great
extent of fertile country, found their way along this channel to Boston; while the return boats
supplied taverns and country stores with their annual stock of goods. The receipts from tolls,
rents, etc. were steadily increasing, amounting,

  in 1812 to $12,600,
  "  1813 "   16,800,
  "  1814 "   25,700,
  "  1815 "   29,200,
  "  1816 "   32,600,

Yet, valuable, useful, and productive as the canal had proved itself, it had lost the confidence
of the public, and, with a few exceptions, of the proprietors themselves. The reason for this
state of sentiment can easily be shown. The general depression of business on account of the
embargo and the war of 1812 had its effect upon the canal. In the deaths of Gov. Sullivan and
Col. Baldwin, in the same year, 1808, the enterprise was deprived of the wise and energetic
counsellors to whom it owed its existence.

The aqueducts and most of the locks, being built of wood, required large sums for annual repairs;
the expenses arising from imperfections in the banks, and from the erection of toll-houses
and public houses for the accommodation of the boatmen, were considerable; but the heaviest
expenses were incurred in opening the Merrimac for navigation. From Concord, N.H., to the head
of the canal the river has a fall of 123 ft., necessitating various locks and canals. The Middlesex
Canal Corporation contributed to the building of the Wiccasee locks and canals, $12,000; Union
locks and canals, $49,932; Hookset canal, $6,750; Bow canal and locks, $14,115, making a sum
total of $82,797 to be paid from the income of the Middlesex canal.

The constant demand for money in excess of the incomes had proved demoralizing. Funds had been
raised from time to time by lotteries. In the Columbian "Centinel & Massachusetts Federalist"
of Aug. 15, 1804, appears an advertisement of the Amoskeag Canal Lottery, 6,000 tickets at
$5, with an enumeration of prizes. The committee, consisting of Phillips Payson, Samuel Swan,
Jr., and Loammi Baldwin, Jr., appealed to the public for support, assuring the subscribers
that all who did not draw prizes would get the full value of their money in the reduced price
of fuel.

In 1816 the Legislature of Massachusetts granted the proprietors of the canal, in consideration
of its usefulness to the public, two townships of land in the district of Maine, near Moosehead
lake. This State aid, however, proved of no immediate service, as purchasers could not be found
for several years for property so remote. Appeals to capitalists, lotteries, and State aid
proved insufficient; the main burden fell upon the stockholders. In accordance with the provisions
of the charter, assessments had been levied, as occasion required, up to 1816, 99 in number,
amounting to $670 per share; and the corporation was still staggering under a debt of $64,000.
Of course, during all this time, no dividends could be declared.

Under these unpromising conditions a committee, consisting of Josiah Quincy, Joseph Hall, and
Joseph Coolidge, Jr., was appointed to devise the appropriate remedy. "In the opinion of your
committee," the report reads, "the real value of the property, at this moment, greatly exceeds
the market value, and many years will not elapse before it will be considered among the best
of all practicable monied investments. The Directors contemplate no further extension of the
canal. The work is done, both the original and subsidiary canals.... Let the actual incomes
of the canal be as great as they may, so long as they are consumed in payment of debts and
interest on loans, the aspect of the whole is that of embarrassment and mortgage. The present
rates of income, if continued, and there is every rational prospect, not only of its continuance,
but of its great and rapid increase, will enable the corporation--when relieved of its present
liabilities,--at once to commence a series of certain, regular, and satisfactory dividends."
They accordingly recommended a final assessment of $80 per share, completely to extinguish
all liabilities. This assessment, the 100th since the commencement, was levied in 1817, making
a sum total of $600,000, extorted from the long-suffering stockholders. If to this sum the
interest of the various assessments be added, computed to Feb. 1, 1819, the date of the first
dividend, the actual cost of each share is found to have been $1,455.25.

The prosperity of the canal property now seemed fully assured. The first dividend, though only
$15, was the promise of golden showers in the near future, and the stock once more took an
upward flight. From 1819 to 1836 were the palmy days of the canal, unvexed with debts, and
subject to very moderate expenses for annual repairs and management.

