  "My wealthe is healthe and perfect ease,
    My conscience cleere my chiefe defence,
  I neither seek by brybes to please,
    Nor by deceyte to breede offence;
  Thus do I lyve, thus will I dye,
  Would all did so as well as I.

    "FINIS.  [Symbol: CROWN]  E. DIER."

S.W.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT CROWLEY.

"Be pleased to observe," says Herbert, "that, though 'The Supper of the Lorde' and 'The Vision
of Piers Plowman' are inserted among the rest of his writings, he wrote only the prefixes to
them" (vol. ii. p. 278.). Farther on he gives the title of the book, and adds, "Though this
treatise is anonymous, Will. Tindall is allowed to have been the author; Crowley wrote only
the preface." It was originally printed at Nornberg, and dated as above [the same date as that
given by "C.H.," No. 21. p. 332.]. "Bearing no printer's name, nor date of printing, I have
placed it to Crowley, being a printer, as having the justest claim to it" (p. 762.). {356}
There is a copy in the Lambeth Library, No. 553. p. 249. in my "List," of which I have said
(on what grounds I do not now know), "This must be a different edition from that noticed by
Herbert (ii. 762.) and Dibdin (iv. 334. No. 2427.)." I have not Dibdin's work at hand to refer
to, but as I see nothing in Herbert on which I could ground such a statement, I suppose that
something may be found in Dibdin's account; though probably it may be only my mistake or his.
As to foreign editions, I always feel very suspicious of their existence; and though I do not
remember this book in particular, or know why I supposed it to differ from the edition ascribed
to Crowley, yet I feel pretty confident that it bore no mark of "Nornberg." According to my
description it had four pairs of [Symbol: pointing hands] on the title, and contained E iv.,
in eights, which should be thirty six leaves.

S.R. MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

John Ross Mackay (No. 8. p. 125.).--In reply to the Query of your correspondent "D.," I beg
to forward the following quotation from Sir N.W. Wraxall's Historical Memoirs of his Own Time,
3rd edition. Speaking of the peace of Fontainbleau, he says,--

    "John Ross Mackay, who had been private secretary to the Earl
    of Bute, and afterwards during seventeen years was treasurer
    of the ordnance, a man with whom I was personally acquainted,
    frequently avowed the fact. He lived to a very advanced age,
    sat in several parliaments, and only died, I believe in 1796.
    A gentleman of high professional rank, and of unimpeached
    veracity, who is still alive, told me, that dining at the late
    Earl of Besborough's, in Cavendish Square, in the year 1790,
    where only four persons were present, including himself, Ross
    Mackay, who was one of the number, gave them the most ample
    information upon the subject. Lord Besborough having called
    after dinner for a bottle of champagne, a wine to which Mackay
    was partial, and the conversation turning on the means of
    governing the House of Commons, Mackay said, that, 'money
    formed, after all, the only effectual and certain method.'
    'The peace of 1763,' continued he, 'was carried through and
    approved by a pecuniary distribution.

DAVID STEWARD.

Godalming, March 19. 1850.

Shipster.--Gourders.--As no satisfactory elucidation of the question propounded by Mr. Fox
(No. 14. p. 216.) has been suggested, and I think he will scarcely accept the conjecture of
"F.C.B.," however ingenious (No. 21. p. 339.), I am tempted to offer a note on the business
or calling of a shipster. It had, I believe, no connection with nautical concerns; it did not
designate a skipper (in the Dutch use of the word) of the fair sex. That rare volume, Caxton's
Boke for Travellers, a treasury of archaisms, supplies the best definition of her calling:--"Mabyll
the shepster cheuissheth her right well; she maketh surplys, shertes, breches, keuerchiffs,
and all that may be wrought of lynnen cloth." The French term given, as corresponding to shepster,
is "cousturière." Palsgrave also, in his Èclaircissement de la Langue françoyse, gives "schepstarre,
lingière:--sheres for shepsters, forces." If further evidence were requisite, old Elyot might
be cited, who renders both sarcinatrix and sutatis (? sutatrix) as "a shepster, a seamester."
The term may probably be derived from her skill in shaping or cutting out the various garments
of which Caxton gives so quaint an inventory. Her vocation was the very same as that of the
tailleuse of present times--the Schneiderinn, she-cutter, of Germany. Palsgrave likewise gives
this use of the verb "to shape," expressed in French by "tailler." He says, "He is a good tayloure,
and shapeth a garment as well as any man." It is singular that Nares should have overlooked
this obsolete term; and Mr. Halliwell, in his useful Glossarial Collections, seems misled by
some similarity of sound, having noticed, perhaps, in Palsgrave, only the second occurrence
of the word as before cited, "sheres for shepsters." He gives that author as authority for
the explanation "shepster, a sheep-shearer" (Dict. of Archaic Words, in v.). It has been shown,
however, I believe, to have no more concern with a sheep than a ship.

The value of your periodical in eliciting the explanation of crabbed archaisms is highly to
be commended. Shall I anticipate Mr. Bolton Corney, or some other of your acute glossarial
correspondents, if I offer another suggestion, in reply to "C.H." (No. 21. p. 335.), regarding
"gourders of raine?" I have never met with the word in this form; but Gouldman gives "a gord
of water which cometh by rain, aquilegium." Guort, gorz, or gort, in Domesday, are interpreted
by Kelham as "a wear"; and in old French, gort or gorz signifies "flot, gorgées, quantité"
(Roquefort). All these words, as well as the Low Latin gordus (Ducange), are doubtless to be
deduced, with gurges, a gyrando.

ALBERT WAY.

Rococo (No. 20. p. 321.).--The history of this word appears to be involved in uncertainty.
Some French authorities derive it from "rocaille," rock-work, pebbles for a grotto, &c.; others
from "Rocco," an architect (whose existence, however, I cannot trace), the author, it is to
be supposed, {357} of the antiquated, unfashionable, and false style which the word "Rococo"
is employed to designate. The use of the word is said to have first arisen in France towards
the end of the reign of Louis XV. or the beginning of that of Louis XVI., and it is now employed
in the above senses, not only in architecture, but in literature, fashion, and the arts generally.

J.M.

Oxford, March 18.

Rococo.--This is one of those cant words, of no very definite, and of merely conventional,
meaning, for any thing said or done in ignorance of the true propriety of the matter in question.
"C'est du rococo," it is mere stuff, or nonsense, or rather twaddle. It was born on the stage,
about ten years ago, at one of the minor theatres at Paris, though probably borrowed from a
wine-shop, and most likely will have as brief an existence as our own late "flare-up," and
such ephemeral colloquialisms, or rather vulgarisms, that tickle the public fancy for a day,
till pushed from their stool by another.

X.

March 18. 1850. (God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb), will be found in Quitard's Dictionnaire
étymologique, historique et anecdotique, des Proverbes, et des Locutions proverbiales de la
Langue française, 8vo. Paris, 1842. Mons. Quitard adds the following explanation of the proverb:--"Dieu
proportionne à nos forces les afflictions qu'il nous envoie." I have also found this proverb
in Furetière's Dictionnaire universal de tous les Mots français, &c. 4 vols. folio, La Haye, 1727.

J.M.

Oxford. March 18.

The proverb, "A brebis pres tondue, Dieu luy mesure le vent," is to be found in Jan. Gruter.
Florileg. Ethico-polit. part. alt. proverb. gallic., p. 353. 8vo. Francof. 1611.

M.

Oxford.

Guildhalls (No. 20. p. 320)--These were anciently the halls, or places of meeting, of Guilds,
or communities formed for secular or religious purposes, none of which could be legally set
up without the King's licence. Trade companies were founded, and still exist, in various parts
of the kingdom, as "Gilda Mercatorum;" and there is little doubt that this was the origin of
the municipal or governing corporate bodies in cities and towns whose "Guildhalls" still remain--"gildated"
and "incorporated" were synonymous terms.

In many places, at one time of considerable importance, where Guilds were established, though
the latter have vanished, the name of their Halls has survived.

Your correspondent "A SUBSCRIBER AB INITIO" is referred to Madox, Firma Burgi, which will afford
him much information on the subject.

T.E.D.

Exeter.

Treatise of Equivocation.--In reply to the inquiry of your correspondent "J.M." (No. 17. p.
263.), I beg to state that, as my name was mentioned in connection with the Query, I wrote
to the Rev. James Raine, the librarian of the Durham Cathedral Library, inquiring whether The
Treatise of Equivocation existed in the Chapter Library. From that gentleman I have received
this morning the following reply:--"I cannot find, in this library, the book referred to in
the 'NOTES AND QUERIES,' neither can I discover it in that of Bishop Cosin. The Catalogue of
the latter is, however, very defective. The said publication ('NOTES AND QUERIES') promises
to be very useful." Although this information is of a purely negative character, yet I thought
it right to endeavour to satisfy your correspondent's curiosity.

BERIAH BOTFIELD.

Nortan Hall.

Judas Bell (No. 13. p. 195.; No. 15. p. 235.).--The lines here quoted by "C.W.G.," from "a
singular Scotch poem," evidently mean to express or examplify discord; and the words "to jingle
Judas bells," refer to "bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh."

The Maltese at Valletta, a people singularly, and, as we should say, morbidly, addicted to
the seeming enjoyment of the most horrid discords, on Good Friday Eve, have the custom of jangling
the church bells with the utmost violence, in execration of the memory of Judas; and I have
seen there a large wooden machine (of which they have many in use), constructed on a principle
similar to that of an old-fashioned watchman's rattle, but of far greater power in creating
an uproar, intended to be symbolical of the rattling of Judas's bones, that will not rest in
his grave. The Maltese, as is well known, are a very superstitious people. The employment of
Judas candles would, no doubt, if properly explained, turn out to mean to imply execration
against the memory of Judas, wherever they may be used. But in the expression Judas bell, the
greatest conceivable amount of discord is that which is intended to be expressed.

ROBERT SNOW.

6. Chesterfield street, Mayfair, March 23. 1850.

    [To this we may add, that the question at present pending
    between this country and Greece, so far as regards the
    claim of M. Pacifico, appears, from the papers laid before
    Parliament, to have had its origin in what Sir Edward Lyon
    states "to have been the custom in Athens for some years, to
    burn an effigy of Judas on Easter day." And from the account
    of the origin of the riots by the Council of the Criminal
    Court of Athens, we learn, that "it is proved by the {358}
    investigation, that on March 23, 1847, Easter Day, a report
    was spread in the parish of the Church des incorporels,
    that the Jew, D. Pacifico, by paying the churchwarden of the
    church, succeeded in preventing the effigy of Judas from
    being burnt, which by annual custom was made and burnt in
    that parish on Easter Day." From another document in the same
    collection it seems, that the Greek Government, out of respect
    to M. Charles de Rothschild, who was at Athens in April, 1847,
    forbid in all the Greek churches of the capital the burning of
    Judas.]

Grummett (No. 20. p. 319.).--The following use of the word whose definition is sought by "[Greek:
Sigma]" occurs in a description of the members or adjuncts of the Cinque Port of Hastings in
1229:--

    "Servicia inde debita domino regi xxi. naves, et in qualibet
    nave xxi. homines, cum uno garcione qui dicitur gromet."

In quoting this passage in a paper "On the Seals of the Cinque Ports," in the Sussex Archæological
Collections (Vol. i. p. 16.), I applied the following illustration:--

    "Gromet seems to be a diminutive of 'grome', a
    serving-man, whence the modern groom. The provincialism
    grummet, much used in Sussex to designate a clumsy, awkward
    youth, has doubtless some relation to this cabin-boy of the
    Ports' navy."

I ought to add, that the passage above given is to be found in Jeake's Charters of the Cinque
Ports.

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes, March 18. 1850.

Grummett.--Bailey explains, "Gromets or Gromwells, the most servile persons on ship-board,"
probably, metaphorically, from "Gromet or Grummet," "small rings," adds Bailey, "fastened with
staples on the upper side of the yard." The latter term is still in use; the metaphorical one
is, I believe, quite obsolete.

C.

Meaning of "Grummett," &c.--The word is derived from the Low Latin "gromettus", the original
of our "groom" (see Ducange's, Gromes and Gromus), and answers to the old French gourmète,
i.e. garçon. In old books he is sometimes called a "novice" or "page," and may be compared
with the "apprentice" of our marine. He was employed in waiting on the sailors, cooking their
victuals, working the pumps, scouring the decks, and, in short, was expected to lend a hand
wherever he was wanted, except taking the helm (Clairac, Commentaire du premier Article des
Rooles d'Oléron); and, consequently, is always distinguished from, and rated below, the mariner
or able-bodied seaman.

The information here given is taken from Jal, Archéologie navale, vol. ii. p. 238.

A. RICH, Jun.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

The Duke of Monmouth.--I made the following note many years ago, and am now reminded of its
existence by your admirable periodical, which must rouse many an idler besides myself to a
rummage amongst long-neglected old papers. This small piece of tradition indicates that the
adventurous but ill-advised duke was a man of unusual muscular power and activity.

    "On the 8th of July, 1685, the Duke of Monmouth was brought
    a prisoner to Ringwood, and halted at an inn there. My
    mother, who was a native of Ringwood, used to relate that her
    grandmother was one of the spectators when the royal prisoner
    came out to take horse; and that the old lady never failed to
    recount, how he rejected any assistance in mounting, though
    his arms were pinioned; but placing his foot in the stirrup,
    sprang lightly into his saddle, to the admiration of all
    observers."

ELIJAH WARING.

Dowry Parade, Clifton Hotwells, March 21. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PHILAUTUS.

(FROM THE LATIN OF BUCHANAN.)

  Narcissus loved himself we know,
  And you, perhaps, have cause to show
      Why you should do the same;
  But he was wrong: and, if I may,
  Philautus, I will freely say,
      I think you more to blame.
  He loved what others loved; while you
  Admire what other folks eschew.

RUFUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

