Ralph Doughby, Esquire of New Feliciana, La., was an old acquaintance of Richards and myself,
and an excellent specimen of a warm-hearted, impetuous, breakneck Kentuckian, with a share
of earthquake in his composition that might be deemed large, even in Kentucky. He had come
to Louisiana some eight years previously, a voyage of a thousand miles or more down the Cumberland
River, the Ohio, and Mississippi, in a flat boat with half a dozen negroes, some casks of flour,
hams, and Indian corn, and a few horses, and had settled at Woodville on a couple of thousand
acres of good land, bought at five dollars an acre, to be paid in five years. His industry
and energy had caused him to thrive, and he was now as well established planter as any on the
Mississippi; his six negroes had amounted to forty, his wilderness had become a respectable
plantation, his cotton was sought after, and he had not only paid for his acres but had already
a large sum in the Planters' Bank. His frank open character had made him friends on all hands,
and there was not a more popular man in Louisiana than Major Ralph Doughby.

During the stay I made at Richards' house previously to my marriage, Doughby had passed a day
there in company with one Mr Lambton and his daughter, Yankees--the latter a beautiful girl,
but cold and formal like most of her countrywomen. An aunt of hers, who possessed large plantations
on the Mississippi, had made up a match between Miss Lambton and Doughby, and they were then
proceeding to New York, where the marriage was in due time to be solemnized. Richards and myself
had observed, however, that the wild headlong manners and character of the Kentuckian, joined
though they were to great goodness of heart and many sterling qualities, did not appear very
pleasing to the stiff, etiquette-loving fine lady, and it was without any great surprise that
we heard, some time afterwards, of the marriage being broken off, in consequence, it was said,
of some wild freak of Doughby's. We were asking one another for the particulars of this rupture,
which neither of us had heard, when the Kentuckian made his reappearance in the cabin. He had
changed his dress, and, taking him altogether, was by no means an ill-looking fellow. His light
blue gingham frock and snow-white trousers fitted him well; an elegant straw hat, very fine
linen, and a diamond shirt-pin that must have cost the best part of a thousand dollars, contributed
to give a sort of genteel planter-like air. His first care upon emerging from his state-room
was to empty a glass of toddy. He then approached Richards and myself.

"And Miss Lambton?" said Richards enquiringly.

"Haven't you heard?" said Doughby; "you must have heard! It's all up--she won't hear speak
of me--persists in her resolution--won't see me; or give me a chance of making my peace. I'm
the most unlucky fellow on the face of the earth," continued he, changing his tone on a sudden
to a melancholy sort of whine--"I wish I lay three hundred feet deep in the bed of the Mississippi.
I tell you, boys, it's clean up with me, I feel that. I'm a lost man, done for entirely--shall
never recover it!"

We burst out into a violent fit of laughter, as who would not have done at the sight of a young
giant of seven-and-twenty, with cheeks as red as poppies, shoulders that seemed made like those
of Atlas to support a world; pair of dark blue-grey eyes with a laughing devil dancing in them,
and a little moist just now from the effects of the toddy, and the man dying of love! He measured
five feet thirteen inches in his stockings, with legs that might have belonged to an elephant,
and fists calculated to frighten a buffalo.

"Be d----d to your laughing!" cried Doughby--"Steward, another glass--d'ye hear, you cursed
neger, where are you hidden? Don't you hear when a gentleman speaks to you? D'ye want me to
tattoo your black brainpan? You laugh," he continued to Richards and myself, relapsing into
his whimpering tones; "but if you only knew--none of the women will have me--this is the seventh
who has packed me off."

"The seventh!" cried I laughing, "what, only the seventh, Doughby? Pshaw! that's nothing; during
my bachelor's life I had at least two dozen refusals, and I am only a year older than yourself."

"You be hanged with your two dozen! Steward, the toddy is only fit for old women--too much
water in it; you don't know how to make toddy. Tell your captain to come here. I'll have you
sent to the devil. No, I tell you my heart is so full, it feels as if it would burst. She won't
hear of me. I will tell you all about it, boys--but who is that?" interrupted he, pointing
to Vergennes, who was standing near us, and looking on in great wonderment. "Ah, Monshur Tonson!
happy to see you, Monshur Tonson! Parleh vouh English? Prenez un seat, et un glass de Madeira.
Nous parlerons hansamble le Franseh. Neger, a bottle of Madeira; and let it be good, or you'll
get the bottle across your crooked shins. A bottle of Irish for me, d'ye hear, real Irish whisky,
or if you haven't any, Scotch will do. No, boys, I tell you I am a gone man. Dismissed, sent
away, packed off with a flea in my ear, as they say."

And so saying, he threw himself on a sofa with a violence that made it crack again; the steward
brought the Madeira and the whisky, and we drew round the table to condole with the love-stricken
Kentuckian. A few minutes passed in the composition of the toddy, which was evidently destined
to play the chief part in the way of a consoler; and when Doughby had got a large beer-glass
of the comfortable mixture before him, he began his narrative.

CHAPTER II

THE RACE.

"I will tell you how it all happened, and how it was that Miss Lambton--in short you shall
hear it all--it's the first time I have spoken about it, but now it shall out; you shall judge
and decide between us, by Jove you shall! You recollect it was in the beginning of June that
we left your house, Richards, to go up the Mississippi--it was a Friday, a day that I hate.
All seamen and hunters do hate it; it's an unlucky day. All the bad luck I ever had, came to
me on Fridays. I had a feeling that something would go wrong when we went on board the Helen
M'Gregor. I thought Miss Lambton looked shy upon me, and the old gentleman stiffer than ever.
I followed the Miss, however, wherever she went, so close, that once or twice I trod the fringe
off her petticoats."

"That was bad manners, Doughby."

"Pshaw! What did it matter? I told her not to bother her head about it, that when we got to
New York, or even to Cincinnati or Louisville, I would buy her a whole shopful of dresses.
She made no answer to that; but when I had the misfortune to tear her third flounce, she said,
that if I went on in that way she would not have a whole gown left when she got to Louisville.
'With a whole one or none at all, Miss,' said I, 'you'll always be a charming creature.' That
now was as pretty a compliment as ever was paid in Kentucky, but she did not seen to hear it.

"On the third day we were just passing St Helena, when old Lambton came up to me. 'Mister Doughby,'
said he, quite confidential like, 'pardon me, my dear good Mister Doughby, but don't you think
that you sometimes take rather too much ardent spirits, and thereby injure your health as well
as give a bad example to your fellow-citizens, which, on the part of a respectable man like
yourself, is very much to be regretted?'

"'Bad example!' says I--'to be regretted, Mister Lambton!--I take too much ardent spirits!
I certainly am not of that opinion, Mister Lambton, and if you are I can only say you are very
much mistaken. You shall see yourself,' said I, 'how much ballast an old Kentuckian can take
in without sinking under it: devil a diving duck ever swallowed more water than a Kentucky
man can rum.'

"I thought to let the old squaretoes see that he had a man before him, not one of his spindleshanked
tallow-chopped Yankees, who go sneaking about the meeting-house from morning till night, or
moping in their rooms, and calculating and speculating how they can best take in honest warm-blooded
South and Westlanders. 'You shall see,' said I--but he shook his head and walked away, and
I looked after him, and shook my head too. Pah! I found out afterwards that he was president
of a temperance society, the devil take them all! Temperance societies! What is rum for, if
it isn't to be drank?"

Doughby was rapidly warming with his subject.

"He is a queer old fellow, that Mister Lambton, as stiff and as cold as an icicle on a water-butt.
Of a morning he was scarcely out of bed when he knocked at the door of the ladies' cabin in
his brocade dressing-gown, and Miss Lambton must come out and hear him read the whole morning
service of the Episcopal Church, and make the responses, and so on, for a full hour. Then the
whole day he walked about as grave and solemn as the chief-justice of the district court. Before
dinner he said a grace which lasted a full quarter of an hour. The soup was often cold, and
half the dinner eaten up from under our noses, while this was going on. Sometimes most of the
other passengers had done their dinner, and were gone to the bar to take a glass, and he still
praying. I was often ready to jump out of my skin with impatience."

"The praying was all well enough, if it had not lasted so long," said I, laughing.

"Pah! I hate people who are always wanting to be a shining light to their fellow-citizens.
There's a deal of pride, a deal of arrogance and presumption in it. If a man wishes to pray,
let him do so, and I do it myself; but people don't want to be reminded of those things. I
tell you I have always found pride behind that sort of piety. The Yankees think we are heathens,
and that they are the elect who are to enlighten us. Pshaw! I hate such humbug."

"Not so badly reasoned," observed Richards.

"However," continued Doughby, "I soon saw that, with one thing or another, I was getting out
of the old gentleman's good books. He became more and more stiff and silent. That wouldn't
have annoyed me much; but one morning the captain came to me and said, in a sort of apologising
manner, that the ladies had desired him to beg me not to pay so many visits to their cabin,
particularly of a morning, when some of them had not quite finished their toilet, but that
I should always ask leave first and have myself announced, as it is set down in the regulations."

"'What!' says I, 'have myself announced when I go to see my own wife, that is to be? What do
the other ladies matter to me, whether they've got on silk gowns or cotton ones? I only go
to see Miss Lambton.'

"'Miss Lambton was present,' said the captain, 'when the ladies gave me the commission; and
she and Mr Lambton most particularly requested me to have the regulations enforced.'

"'Miss Lambton!' said I; 'that's a lie now, captain. She never could have done that.'

"'Mister Doughby,' said he, 'it is no lie; and if another than yourself had said such a thing,
I would have struck him down like a mad dog. And I must beg of you to retract your words, and
ascertain to your own satisfaction that what I have said is a fact.'

"So I ran off and asked Miss Lambton and Mr Lambton, and they answered me as dry as fagots,
and said the captain had spoken the truth. I was a'most raving mad when I heard this, as savage
as a panther; and, to console myself, I drank perhaps a trifle more than I should have done.
But what else can one do on a voyage up the Mississippi? Much as I like him, old father Mississip,
one gets awful sick of him after a time, steaming along for days and weeks together, nothing
to be heard but clap-clap-clap, trap-trap-trap, or to be seen but the dull muddy waters and
the never-ending forest. Day and night, wood and water, water and wood. It is wearisome work
at the best.

"It was exactly two o'clock in the afternoon on the seventh day of our voyage when we got beyond
Wolf's Island, which, as you know, lies above New Madrid and below the mouth of the Ohio. The
poor Helen M'Gregor burst her boiler since then, as you'll have heard, at that very place,
and sent half a hundred passengers into the other world. Past Wolf's Island, we came up with
the Ploughboy, the Huntress, the Louisville, and a couple more steamers, all going our way.
It made quite a little fleet. I was sitting in the cabin with Miss Lambton and the old gentleman,
who were cool and silent enough, when somebody called out, 'Here comes the George Washington.'
A glorious steamer it is that George, more like a floating palace than a boat, as it goes skimming
along as lightly and smoothly as a swan. It's a real pleasure to see it. I kept my place by
Miss Lambton; but, to tell you the truth, I was sitting upon hot coals. What can be the reason
that we men feel so deucedly cowed and quailed by the petticoats? Hang me if I know. Suddenly
there was a cry upon deck, 'The Washington is passing us.' I could stand it no longer, but
bolted up-stairs, and sure enough there it came in all its pride and power, trarara, trarara,
rushing and dashing and spitting fire like Emperor Nap. at the head of his guards and dragoons
and artillery. It was already in the midst of the other five steamers, passing them all. The
whole of our passengers were on deck looking on, and I can tell you that our hearts beat quick
as we saw the George walking up to us. The dinner-bell rang. Not a foot moved to go below.
'Captain,' cried I, 'we must not let the George pass us; you can't think of allowing such a
thing?' says I; 'must show them that we are Mississippi men.'

"'Mister Doughby,' says he, 'it's the George Washington,' says he--'hundred and twenty horse
power,' says he.

"'Devil a hundred,' said I. 'You only say so because you are afraid to race him. And if he
had two hundred horse power, what then? Shorten your stirrups and give your horse the spur,' say I.

"I saw that the captain's blood was getting up; his eyes were fixed on the old George as if
he would have eaten it, and he became red and blue and green, all manner of colours, like a
dolphin; his teeth chattered, and he bit his lips till the blood ran over his chin. On came
the Washington quicker than ever, the paddles clattering, the steam hissing, the crew hurraing
like mad.

"'Captain,' cried I, 'the Washington's passing you; it's all up with the honour of the Helen
M'Gregor.'

"The captain stood there as if his face had been rubbed over with chalk, and the drops of sweat
ran down his forehead. The five steamers that we had passed were now hurraing with delight
to see that we should be humbled in our turn. 'Captain,' said I, 'will you let yourself be
beaten out of the field without firing a shot? The Helen M'Gregor is a new ship--Crack on, man!'

"He could stand it no longer, but ran forward and screamed out to the stokers. 'More wood!'
cried he, 'High pressure, high pressure!'

"'Blaze away, boys!' cried I, 'Blaze away, and hurra for the Helen M'Gregor!'

"And the fellows pitched whole cartloads of wood upon the fire, and stirred and poked away
till they were wet through with perspiration, and our chimney began to whistle and sing, that
it was a pleasure to hear it. We were just entering the Ohio, the Washington close upon our
heels, when old Lambton and Emily came running upon deck in an almighty fright.

"'Mr Doughby, for heaven's sake! Mr Doughby--captain, for God's sake! Will you destroy yourself,
and the steamer, and your fellow-citizens? Will you race with the George Washington?'

"'For God's sake, Mr Doughby!' cried the Miss.

"'Mr Doughby!' squealed the old Yankee, who had quite forgotten his stiffness, 'I demand and
insist that you use your influence to prevent the captain from racing.'

"'Pshaw!' said I, 'it's nothing of the sort--ain't going to race--only want to see which ship
goes quickest.'

"'That must not be. I protest against it--the safety of our fellow-citizens--our own. If the
boiler bursts'----

"'Nonsense!' said I--'safety of our fellow-citizens! Our fellow-citizens are in safety. We
don't mean to race, Mister Lambton,' says I; 'we are only trying for a minute which ship can
go the fastest.'

"'Mr Doughby!' cried Emily, half beside herself--throwing her arms round me, and trying to
drag me towards the engine--'Mr Doughby, if you have the smallest affection--regard I would
say--for me, exert your influence, stop this horrid racing!'

"And then she left me and ran to the captain, who was standing beside the engineer.

"The Washington was close behind us--we, as I said before, were running slap into the mouth
of the Ohio. There's no finer piece of water in the whole world for a race. The current of
the Mississippi drives back that of the Ohio as far as Trinity, so that upon entering the river,
the stream is in your favour. The two rivers are together four or five miles wide, and form
a sort of circus, enclosed by the shores of Illinois, of Old Kentuck, and her daughter Missouri.[4]
We were nearest to the Illinois side, which gave us a small advantage over our opponent, who
was more on the Kentucky side, end kept coming on faster and faster, with the other five boats,
who had also clapped more steam on, a short distance behind him. Our Helen M'Gregor still kept
the lead; who the devil could have helped racing? No one, of a certainty, except such a mackerel-blooded
Yankee as old Lambton. All was heat and steam, rattle and clatter; the engines thumping, the
water splashing, the fire blazing and roaring out of the chimneys, which sent out clouds of
smoke and showers of sparks. The enemy was close upon us, Father George's honest face almost
in a line with our stern.

"'Helen M'Gregor, hold your own!' cried I. 'Don't spare the wood, boys, lay it on thick, pile
it up mountaineous; ten dollars for you when you've beaten him!'

"'Hurra!' cried the hundred passengers; 'hurra! The Washington loses, we are gaining ground.'

"Only the captain could not say a word; he stood there with his blue lips pressed hard together,
looking more like a statue than a man. We were going our twenty knots, and keep it up we must
if we did not want to fall back amongst the mob of the Huntress, the Ploughboy, and the rest
of them. Every joint and hinge in the boat seemed to be cracking, the engine roared and groaned,
the steam howled and hissed.

"'The Helen M'Gregor is a gallant lass!' cried I. 'A brave Scotchwoman! She has fire in her veins.'

"And so she really had. She stretched out like a racehorse that feels the spur in his flank
for the first time; not steaming or swimming, but flying like a bird, rushing like a wild-cat
or an elk that's been shot at; the waters of the Ohio flashing from her side in a white creamy
foam. The Kentucky shores on our right, with their forests and cotton-trees, were flying away
from us; on our left, the banks of Illinois seemed to dance past us, the big trees looking
like witches scampering off on their broomsticks. Behind us, the high land of Missouri was
rapidly disappearing, Colonel Boon's plantation getting smaller every second, till at last
it appeared no bigger than a dovecot. Every thing around us seemed in motion, swimming, flying,
racing. Hurras by thousands; seven steamers groaning, creaking, hissing, and rattling; a noise
and a heat that made our heads dizzy, blinded our eyes, and took away our hearing. It was a
gallopade, a race between giants.

"We were close to the wood below Trinity--the race as good as won, for Trinity was of course
the winning post. Suddenly the captain cried out, 'He is passing us!' and, as he said the word,
he looked as wild as a tortured redskin, and bit his lips more savage than ever, and caught
hold of the quarterdeck railing as if he would have torn it down.

"'Captain,' said I, 'it's impossible--he is not passing us.'

"'Look yourself, Mr Doughby,' said he.

"The man was right. The old George is an almighty fast ship, that is certain. I saw that in
two minutes we should be beaten. We had not even so long to wait.

"'By my soul he is passing us!' cried I.

"'He is passing us,' repeated the captain in a low voice. He was deadly white. I couldn't say
a word; and as for him, he was obliged to support himself against the railing, or he would
have fallen down. There was no help for it, however; the Washington's figure-head was already
in a line with our stern--in ten seconds, a third of the vessel's length was parallel with
us--another ten seconds, two-thirds, and in less than a minute he dashed proudly before us
with a deafening hurra from crew and passengers, which was echoed from the other five steamers,
till we heard nothing on all sides but hurras and hurras. I would have given a thousand dollars
down to have reached Trinity two minutes sooner. Just then a number of voices cried out, 'The
boiler's bursting! The boiler's bursting!' And there was a cracking noise, and then a loud
rush. Here comes the hot bath, thought I, and wished myself a pleasant journey out of the world.
But it was nothing; the cry came from a couple of negers, echoed by Miss Lambton and Mister
Lambton, and the rest of the old women folk from the ladies' cabin. They had gone in a body
to the engineer, and had so begged, and prayed, and bothered him, that he had given in, and
opened the valve, and we only half a mile from Trinity. I am certain that if the cowardly rascal
had not done that, we should have made a drawn race of it, for the Washington got in not two
minutes before us. I fell upon the engineer, and if it had not been for the captain, and one
or two old acquaintances, I should have leathered him upon the spot--ay, if it were to have
cost me a thousand dollars; he deserved it well, the dishonourable scamp! We were now in Trinity,
we had done five miles in less than twelve minutes; but Miss Lambton was so angry, and the
old gentleman so bitter cold and stiff--a pair of fire-tongs is nothing compared to him--Couldn't
be helped, however. Honor before every thing."

"But you really were too foolhardy," observed Richards.

"Foolhardy!" repeated Doughby, "foolhardy, when the honour of a ship was at stake!"

"Pshaw! The honour of a steam-boat!"

"Pshaw, do you say, Richards? Well, if I didn't know you to be a thoroughbred Virginian, hang
me if I should not almost take you for one of those wishywashy Creoles. Pshaw, say you, the
honour of a steam-boat! A steamer, let me tell you, is also a ship, and a big one too, and
an American one, a thorough American one. It's our ship; we invented it, they'd have been long
enough in the old country before finding such a thing out--Pshaw, do you say? And if Percy
had said pshaw upon Lake Erie, or Lawrence on Champlain, or Rogers, or Porter, you might say
pshaw to every thing--to the honour of a steamer, a ship, a country. But I tell you that the
man who says pshaw when his ship is beaten in a race, will also say it when it is taken in
a fight. In short, that sort of pride is emulation, and that emulation is the real thing."

"But the life of so many men?"

"I tell you, that of the hundred and twenty passengers that we had on board the Helen, there
were not three besides that leathern old Yankee, Mister Lambton, and the women, who would have
cared one straw if the boiler had burst, provided we had got to Trinity two minutes the sooner."

We could not help laughing at this Kentucky bull, but at the same time we were compelled to
admit the truth of what Doughby meant to say. In spite of Uncle Sam's usual phlegm and nonchalance,
there are occasions when he seems to change his nature; and in the anxiety to see his ship
first at the goal, to forget what he does not otherwise easily lose sight of, namely, wife
and child, land and goods; as to his own life, it does not weigh a feather in the balance.
He becomes a perfect madman, setting every thing upon a single cast. And the yearly loss of
five hundred to a thousand lives, sacrificed in these desperate races, does not appear to cure
him in any degree of his mania.

"Well," continued Doughby, resuming his narrative, "it was as much as I could do to get a word
from Miss Emily during the rest of the voyage. The time went terribly slow, and my patience
was clean expended when we got to Louisville. We stopped at the Lafayette Hotel, and I was
in my room before dinner, when the waiter brought me a letter from Mister Lambton. The old
gentleman had the honour to inform me, in accordance with his daughter's wishes, that there
did not exist sufficient harmony between my character and that of Miss Emily to render a union
between us desirable. And, under these circumstances, he took leave to request of me that I
would consider the projected marriage as entirely broken off; and, with his and his daughter's
best wishes for my happiness, he had the honour to be my very humble servant. There was a deal
more of it, but that was the pith. When I had read it, I burst out of my room like mad, either
to throttle old Lambton or to throw myself at his daughter's feet, I didn't rightly know which.
But the Yankee had been too cunning for me. He had left the hotel with his daughter, and gone
off by the Cincinnati steamer. I went on board the next that was going, and got to Cincinnati
three hours after him, but missed him again. He had taken a chaise and started for his estate
at Dayton, near Yellow Springs. And all I have done since is no use. She won't hear of me,
and I'm the most unhappy fellow alive."

And so saying, he threw his feet upon the table, crossed his arms, and remained in this position
for a couple of minutes, staring earnestly at the ceiling. Suddenly he brought his legs down
again, started up, and gazed through the cabin window.

"Hallo!" cried he, "here are your Red River bottoms. Will have a look at them--will go on deck?
You may take away, steward. Come, Monshur Tonson, come with me, come, my dear little Frenchman!
Nous parlons hansamble le Fransch."

And thereupon he struck up the favourite western ditty, "Let's go to Old Kentuck," seized young
De Vergennes by the arm, and dragged him through the folding-doors and out upon deck.

"He's not the man to break his heart about a woman," said I to Richards.

"Hardly," replied my friend.

CHAPTER III

THE STAG HUNT.

We had sat for some time talking over Doughby's mishaps, when we were interrupted by a noise
upon deck. Hurras and hellos were resounding off on every side and corner of the steamer. We
hurried out to see what was the matter, and found the cause of the tumult to be a fallow deer,
that had taken the water some two hundred yards from our steamer, and was swimming steadily
across from the right to the left bank of the river. The yawl had already been lowered, and
was pushing off from the side with five men in it, amongst whom Doughby of course took the lead.

"There he is again," cited Richards. "Of a certainty the man is possessed by a devil."

"Hurra, boys! Give way!" shouted Doughby, flourishing a rifle full six feet in length. The
four oars clipped into the water, and the boat flew to the encounter of the deer, who was tranquilly
pursuing his liquid path.

We were about entering one of those picturesque spreads, or bays of the Red River, which perhaps
no other stream can boast of in such abundance, and on so magnificent a scale. The lofty trees
and huge masses of foliage of the dense forest that covered the left bank, bent forward over
the water, the dark green of the cypresses, and the silver white of the gigantic cotton-trees,
casting a bronze-tinted shadow upon the dusky red stream, which at that point is full fifteen
hundred feet broad; the right bank offering a succession of the most luxuriant palmetto grounds,
with here and there a bean or tulip tree, amongst the branches of which innumerable parroquets
were chattering and bickering. A pleasant breeze swept across from the palmetto fields, scarcely
sufficient, however, to ruffle the water, which flowed tranquilly along, undisturbed save by
the paddle of our steamer, that caused the huge black logs and tree-trunks floating upon the
surface, to knock against each other, and heave up their extremities like so many porpoises.
The steamer had just entered the bay when a boat shot out from under the wood on the left bank,
and greatly increased the romantic character of the scene.

It was a long Indian canoe made out of the hollowed trunk of a cotton tree; a many-tined antler
was stuck in the prow, and dried legs and haunches of venison lay in the fore part of the boat;
towards the stern sat a young girl, partially enveloped in a striped blanket, but naked from
the waist upwards, impelling the boat in the direction of the deer by long graceful sweeps
of her oar; in front of her was a squaw of maturer age, performing a like labour. In the centre
of the canoe were two children, queer guinea-pig-looking little devils, and near these lay
a man in all the lazy apathy of a redskin on his return from on the hunting ground; but towards
the stern stood a splendid Antinous-like young savage, leaning in an attitude of graceful negligence
on his rifle, and evidently waiting an opportunity to get a blow or a shot at the stag. As
soon as these children of the forest caught sight of the steamer and of Doughby's boat, they
ceased rowing, only recommencing when encouraged by some loud hurras, and even then visibly
taking care to keep as far as possible from the fire-ship. It was a picturesque and interesting
sight to observe the two boats describing a sort of circle on the broad ruddy stream, while
the steamer rounding to, formed in a manner the base of the operation, and cut off the stag's
retreat. Presently a shot fired without effect from Doughby's boat, drove the beast over towards
the canoe. The long slender bark darted across the animal's track with the swiftness of an
arrow, and as it did so, the Indian who was standing up dealt the stag a blow that caused it
to reel and spin round in the water, and change its course for the second time. When I again
glanced at the canoe, the young Indian had disappeared.

"Here he comes" shouted Doughby, pointing to the deer, which was now swimming towards his boat.
"Give way, boys! the Indians must learn of a Kentucky man how to strike a stag. Give way, I say!"

The noble beast had recovered from the severe blow it had received, and had now approached
the steamer towards which it cast such a supplicating tearful look, that the hearts of the
ladies were touched with compassion.

"Mr Doughby," cried half a score feminine voices, "spare the poor beast! Pray, pray let it go!"

"Spare a stag, ladies! Where did you ever hear of such a thing? Hurra, boys!" shouted he, as
the boat came up with the deer, and clubbing his rifle, he delivered a blow with the but-end
that split the stock in two, and threw the stunned animal upon the gunwale of the boat. Quick
as thought, Doughty clutched the antlers with one hand, while with the other he reached for
the knife which one of his companions held out to him. At that moment the deer threw itself
on one side with a convulsive movement, the boat rocked, Doughby lost his balance, the stag,
which was now recovering its strength, drew itself violently back, and in an instant the Kentuckian
was floundering in the water, struggling with the deer, to whose horns he held on with the
gripe of a tiger.

"Hallo, Mister Doughby in the Red River!"

The whole ship was now in an uproar, the ladies screaming, the men shouting directions and
advice to those in the boat. We began to be somewhat anxious as to the result; for although
these water hunts are by no means uncommon occurrences, they are often dangerous and sometimes
fatal to the hunter. The deer had been severely stunned and hurt, but not killed, by the blow
it had received, and it now strove fiercely against its powerful opponent, throwing him from
side to side by violent tossess of its head. Doughby still held on like grim death, but his
eyes began to roll and stare wildly, his strength was evidently diminishing, and he had each
moment more difficulty in partially controlling the stag's movements, and preventing the furious
beast from running its antlers into his body. It was in vain that the four men in the boat
endeavoured to render assistance. Man and beast were rolling and twisting about in the river
like two water snakes. The scene that had at first been interesting had now become painful
to behold.

"Fire, Parker! Fire, Rolby!" shouted several voices from the steamer to the men in the boat.

"Knock the cussed redskin on the head!" was the unintelligible rejoinder of one of the latter.

The stag had now got Doughby close to a tree-trunk, against which it was making violent efforts
to crush him. His life was in imminent peril, and a universal cry of horror and alarm burst
from the spectators. Just then the head of the deer fell on its breast, the eyes glazing and
the legs flinging out convulsively in the agony of death; at the same time, however, Doughby
began to sink, and a bright streak of blood that rose to the surface of the water, and spread
in a circle round the combatants, gave reason to fear that the mad Kentuckian had received
some deadly hurt. At last the men in the boat succeeded in getting hold of Doughby and the
stag, the former being seized by the hair of the head, while his hands still clung to the deer's
antlers with the desperate grasp of a drowning man. A shout of triumph echoed from one end
of the steam-boat to the other, and we all felt a sensation of relief proportionate to the
painful state of suspense in which we had been kept.

Doughby sat for a short space doubled up in the bottom of the boat, gazing straight before
him with a fixed unconscious sort of look. The grating of the boat against the side of the
steamer seemed to rouse him from his apathy, and he slowly ascended the ladder.

"For heaven's sake, Doughby," cried Richards, as the Kentuckian set his foot upon deck, "what
demon is it that possesses you, and drives you to risk your neck at every turn?"

"The devil take you," retorted Doughby, "and your Red River water to boot! Brr, brr! d----d
bad water your Red River water, say I! No, no, talk to me of Mississippi water.[5] If I am
to be drowned, it sha'n't be in the stinking Red River. I've a taste in my mouth as if I had
swallowed saltpetre and sulphur, with a dash of prussic acid. But tell me," cried he to the
passengers and sailors by whom he was surrounded, "who gave him his settler? The deer, I mean.
Who finished him?"

"Who?" repeated every body, "why, who but yourself, Mister Doughby?"

"I!" replied Doughby, shaking his head, "I had something else to do besides knifing the stag.
No, no, I had plenty to think of to keep away from the tree-trunk. Besides, I let the knife
fall at the very moment the beast dragged me out of the boat. But see there, boys!" added he,
pointing to the deer, which was at this moment hoisted upon deck.

The animal had a deep knife wound in the belly, and the tendons of the hind legs were cut right
across.

"That's the Indian's handiwork," said Doughby.

"What Indian?" cried we all.

"The Indian whom Rolby was going to knock on the head."

"I thought he wanted to chouse us out of the deer," said Rolby; "I saw his bacon-face appear
for a minute from behind the tree-trunk, and at first I took it for a log, but I soon saw it
was a redskin. It wouldn't have been a great harm if I had sent a bit of lead through him.
What business has an Injun to meddle, when gentlemen"----

"No great harm!" interrupted Doughby impatiently. "The Indian, I can tell you----d'ye hear?
Ralph Doughby tells you----has more real blood in his little finger than ten such leather-chopped
fellows as yourself in their whole bodies, making all allowance for your white hide and your
citizenship, neither of which, by the way, are much better than they should be. Ten times more,
I tell you, and, if you don't believe it, I'll let you know it. A fine fellow he is, that redskin.
He saw that I was at a pinch, and he came to help me when none of my own friends were able.
And now, see yonder, there he stands in his canoe again, just as if he had done nothing but
the most natural thing in the world. Chouse us out of the deer, say ye; and who had a right
to hinder him if he had? The beast was bred in his woods as well as ours; a fair field and
no favour is our motto in old Kentuck. I tell you the Indian is a brave redskin, and the stag
is his; but I'll buy it of him. Hallo, captain! a dozen bottles of rum into the boat! Howard,
Richards, let me have half a dozen dollars, silver dollars, d'ye hear? I'll pay the Indian
a visit on board his canoe, and thank him as he ought to be thanked."

No sooner said than done. The captain, however unwilling to lose any more time, could not resist
the impetuosity of the good-natured scatterbrain, who sprang, dripping wet as he was, into
the boat, a bottle in each hand, and a friendly hurra upon his lips. The Indians at first seemed
alarmed and doubtful as to his intentions; but the signs and words of peace and encouragement
that were given, and shouted to them from all sides, and above all, the sight of the bottles,
soon removed their fears. In another minute or two we saw Doughby in their canoe, shaking hands
with them, and putting one of the bottles to his mouth. A little more, and I believe they would
all, men, women, and children, have begun the war-dance in the canoe, so delighted were they
with the magnificent present of the rum and dollars. As it was, they shook and mauled Doughby
till he was fain to jump back into his boat, and escape as well as he could from their wild
caresses and demonstrative gratitude.

But we have been nearly twelve hours on the water, and the Alexandria is a noted fast steamer.
Our course has lain for some time between banks covered with gigantic forests of live oak,
cotton, bean, and cypress trees, with here and there a palmetto field, and on the north shore
an occasional plantation, for the most part a mere log-hut, with a strip of tobacco, cotton,
or Indian corn. We have seen numerous deer, who, on the appearance of our steamer, gallop back
into the woods--swans, cranes, geese, and ducks, wild pigeons, turkeys, and alligators, are
there by thousands. We now enter a broad part of the river, and are gliding along in front
of a wide clearing, some half mile long, and surrounded by colossal evergreen oaks; a snug-looking
house of greenish-white colour stands in the middle of the plantation, with orange gardens--that
are to be--laid out and enclosed in front of it; one enormous live oak, that looks as if it
had stood there since the flood, spreading its knotty limbs over the eastern side of the habitation.
The windows on the balconies are open, the Venetian blinds drawn up, the sinking sun throws
its mellow rays over the whole peaceful and pleasant scene. And see there! We are expected:
a small variegated ball flies up to the top of the lightning conductor, and the banner of our
Union flutters out, displaying its thirteen stripes and twenty-four stars, and the white American
eagle, the thunder of Jupiter and the symbols of peace in his talons. At the same moment, Plato
and Tully, two of my negroes, come rushing like demented creatures out of the house, one with
a stick in his hand, the other bearing a pan of hot coals. They are closely pursued by Bangor,
who seems disposed to dispute Tully's title to the embers. In the struggle the coals fly in
every direction; of a surety, the dingy rascals will burn my house before my eyes. Now comes
Philip, a fourth negro, and tries to snatch the stick from Plato's hand; but the latter is
on his guard, and fetches his adversary a wipe over the pate, that snaps the stick--a tolerably
thick one, by the way--in two. Both retreat a short distance, and lowering their heads like
a couple of angry steers, run full tilt against each other, with force that would fracture
any skulls except African ones. Once, twice, three times--at the third encounter, Plato the
sage bites the dust before the hero of Macedon. Confound the fellows! My companions are laughing
fit to split themselves, but I see nothing to laugh at. I shall have them in hospital for the
next ten days. Tully, however, has picked up the pan and the embers, and is rushing towards
a flag-staff near the shore, from which the Louisianian flag is waving. I see now what they
are all at. They have brought down the Wasp and the Scorpion from on Menou's plantation, two
four-pounders so named, which were taken last year on board a Porto Rico pirate, and which
my father-in-law bought. Boum--boum--and at the sound the whole black population of the plantation
comes flocking to the shore, capering and jumping like so many opera-dancers, only not quite
so gracefully, and shouting out--"Massa come; hurra, massa come! Massa maum bring; hurra, massa!"
and manifesting a joy that is probably rendered more lively by the hopes of an extra ration
of rum and salt-fish. And now Monsieur Menou and his son hurry down to receive us; the steamer
stops, the plank is thrown across, and amidst shaking of hands, and farewells, and good wishes,
our party hurries on shore. Thank heaven! we are home, and settled at last.

BORODINO.--AN ODE.

  STROPHE.

    Weep for the living! mourn no more
    Thy children slain on Moskwa's shore,
  Cut off from evil! want, and anguish,
      And care, for ever brooding and in vain;
  No more to be beguiled! no more to languish
    Under the yoke of labour and of pain!
    Their doom of future joy or woe
    For good or evil done below,
  The Judge of all the earth will order rightly!
    Flee winding error through the flowery way,
  To daily follow truth! to ponder nightly
    On time, and death, and judgment, nearer day by day!
  Bewail thy bane, deluded France,
    Vain-glory, overweening pride,
  And harrying earth with eagle glance,
    Ambition, frantic homicide!
  Lament, of all that armed throng
    How few may reach their native land!
  By war and tempest to be borne along,
    To strew, like leaves, the Scythian strand?
  Before Jehovah who can stand?
    His path in evil hour the dragon cross'd!
  He casteth forth his ice! at his command
    The deep is frozen!--all is lost!
  For who, great God, is able to abide thy frost?

  EPODE.

  Elate of heart, and wild of eye,
  Crested horror hurtles by;
  Myriads, hurrying north and east,
  Gather round the funeral feast!
  From lands remote, beyond the Rhine,
  Running o'er with oil and wine,
  Wide-waving over hill and plain,
  Herbage green, and yellow grain;
  From Touraine's smooth irriguous strand,
  Garden of a fruitful land,
  To thy dominion, haughty Rhone,
  Leaping from thy craggy throne;
  From Alp and Apennine to where
  Gleam the Pyrenees in air;
  From pastoral vales and piny woods,
  Rocks and lakes and mountain-floods,
  The warriors come, in armed might
  Careering, careless of the right!
  Their leader he who sternly bade
  Freedom fall; and glory fade,
  The scourge of nations ripe for ruin,
  Planning oft their own undoing!
  But who in yonder swarming host
  Locust-like from coast to coast,
  Reluctant move, an alien few,
  Sullen, fierce, of sombre hue,
  Who, forced unhallow'd arms to bear,
  Mutter to the moaning air,
  Whose curses on the welkin cast
  Edge the keen and icy blast!
  Iberia, sorrow bade thee nurse
  Those who now the tyrant curse,
  Whose wrongs for vengeance cry aloud!
  Lo, the coming of a cloud!
  To burst in wrath, and sweep away
  Light as chaff the firm array!
  To rack with pain, or lull to rest
  Both oppressor and oppress'd.

  ANTISTROPHE.

    Is it the wind from tower to tower
    Low-murmuring at midnight hour?
  Athwart the darkness light is stealing,
    Portentous, red with unrelenting ire,
  Inhuman deeds, and secrets dark revealing!
    Ye guilty, who may quench the kindled fire!
    Fall, city of the Czars, to rise
    Ennobled by self-sacrifice,
  Than tower and temple higher and more holy!
    The wilful king appointed o'er mankind
  To plague the lofty heart, and prove the lowly,
    Is fled!--Avenger, mount the chariot of the wind!
      Be thine, to guide the rapid scythe,
    To blind with snow the frozen sun,
      Against th' invader doomed to writhe,
  To rouse the Tartar, Russ, and Hun!
  Bid terror to the battle ride!
  Indignant honour, burning shame,
  Revenge, and hate, and patriotic pride!
  But not the quick unerring aim
  Of volley'd thunder winged with flame,
  Nor famine keener than the bird of prey,
      Nor death--avail the hard of heart to tame!
      Blow wind, and pierce the dire array,
  Flung, drifted by thy breath, athwart the frozen way!

  EPODE.

    Before the blast as flakes of snow
    Drive blindly, reeling to and fro,
    Or down the river black and deep
    Melt--so the mighty sink to sleep!
    Like Asshur, never more to boast!
    Or Pharaoh, sunk with all his host!
    So perish who would trample down
    The rights of freedom, for renown!
    So fall, who born and nurtured free
    Adore the proud on bended knee!
    Roll, Beresina, 'neath the bridge
    Of death! rise Belgium's fatal ridge!
    Rise, lonely rock in a wide ocean,
  To curb each haughty mad emotion!
  To prove, while force and genius fail,
  That truth is great, and will prevail!

    The hour is coming--seize the hour!
  Divide the spoil, the prey devour!
  Howl o'er the dead and dying, cry
  All ye that raven earth and sky!
  With beak and talon rend the prey,
  Track carnage on her gory way,
  To chide o'er many a gleamy bone
  The moon, or with the wind to moan!
  Benumb'd with cold, by torture wrung,
  To winter leave the famine-clung,
  O thou for whom they toil and bleed,
  Deserted in their utmost need!
  Hear, hear them faithful unto death
  Invoke thee with the fleeting breath,
  And feel (for human still thou art)
  Ruth touch that adamantine heart!
  Survive the storm and battle-shock,
  To linger on th' Atlantic rock!

    From ghastly dream, from death-like trance
  Awake to woe, devoted France!
  To care and trouble, toil and pain,
  Till glory be acknowledged vain,
  And martial pomp a mere parade,
  And war, the bravo's bloody trade!
  A beacon o'er the tide of time
  Be thou, to point the wreck of crime!
  The spoiler spoil'd, from empire hurl'd,
  The dread and pity of the world!

    O then, by tribulation tried,
  Abjuring envy, hate, and pride,
  Warn'd of the dying hour foretold
  Of earth and heaven together roll'd,
  Revering each prophetic sign
  Of judgment and of love divine,
  Bow down, and hide thee in the dust,
  And own the retribution just;
  So may contrition, prayer, and praise,
  Preserve thee in the latter days!

  E. PEEL.

A RAMBLE IN MONTENEGRO.

Few nations of Europe have been less known than the Montenegrians, and the name even of their
country is seldom found on maps.[6] Surrounded by great empires, they have always preserved
the independence of their rugged mountains, and have even succeeded in wresting several rich
plains from the sway of Turkey. With this power hostilities seldom cease; but such is the system
with which her resources are managed, that while the Montenegrians are at peace with one pasha,
they are enabled to concentrate their force against another--and all the while the Sublime
Porte does not condescend to interfere. Not many years ago, they possessed the reputation of
being a horde of robbers; and, in all probability, the pilgrim who ventured among them would
have returned, if at all, as shirtless as themselves. But the breath of the spirit of the age,
though faintly wafted to their mountains, has softened something of their character, without
destroying in the least their independence or nationality. Bold, hardy, and free, ready and
eager for the foray and the fray, a stranger is now as safe among them as in any part of her
Majesty's kingdom.

Whoever wishes to make the acquaintance of this primitive people, will do well to embark on
board the Austrian Lloyd's Company's steamer from Trieste to Cattaro. They will be well accommodated,
at reasonable charges, and have an opportunity of seeing the principal towns of Dalmatia, a
country little frequented by travellers. Such was the case with ourselves, (an English lady
and gentleman,) who quitted Trieste on the 5th of November 1843. The voyage commenced pleasantly,
and we had the good-luck to have the ladies' cabin to ourselves. The captain was a very gentlemanlike
person, the steward attentive, and the passengers full of politeness. Zara, the capital of
Dalmatia, where we stopped a day and a night, is a walled town of moderate extent, said to
contain 8000 inhabitants. It possesses some antiquities. Over the gates of this, and all other
of the Dalmatian seaports, the Lions of Saint Mark yet remain. It is best known for the excellence
of its rosoglio. The next town we arrived at was Sebenico, now much decayed, and Spalatro,
the most interesting of all, where the badness of the weather, during the short time we stayed,
prevented our landing to see the extensive Roman remains. After anchoring off Curzola for a
night, we came to Ragusa, where we stopped two days. At Zara and Sebenico we had opportunities
of seeing the Morlaccian race. These are the rural inhabitants of Dalmatia, speaking a Sclavonic
dialect, while in the towns they pride themselves on their Venetian origin and language. Amongst
these peasants were the noblest specimens of the human kind I have ever seen. Of stature almost
gigantic, and of the amplest development of chest, their symmetry of limb and elasticity of
step would have called forth notice in a Scottish Highlander. Nor could a somewhat manifest
omission to cares of the toilet disguise complexion and features almost faultless, and in which
an expression of frankness and good-nature left one nothing to fear from their armed numbers.
I speak not of a few among a crowd, but of nearly all I saw. It was from amongst these that
the French, during their occupation, chose their finest grenadiers; but at present, in consequence
of the scantiness of the population, the humanity of the Austrian government has suspended
all conscription. Still it is possible, that, in the hour of danger, Austria might profit more
from the devoted loyalty of this armed and stalwart peasantry, than if her ranks were filled
with its forced recruits. Their dress consists of a coarse brown jacket, and a waistcoat of
red cloth, both ornamented on the edges, and made to sit close on the shoulders, without any
collar, and which advantageously display their well put on head and neck. They wear a small
red skull-cap, round at top; but, when married, they usually surround this with a white turban.
Their pantaloons are of blue, and fit close from the knee to the ankle, and below they wear
the opunka--a species of sandal, made of sheepskin, and bound with thongs, which, as may be
seen from their elastic step and upright carriage, are well fitted to their country; round
their waist is a red sash, and in front a leather belt, in which is placed a yataghan and a
smaller knife, and exhibiting usually the handsome pommels of silver or brass-mounted pistols.
Over all is a long brown cloak, open in front, and fastening over the chest, forming a dress
which, with their free and martial bearing, gives them the appearance of ready-made soldiers.
The women are, comparatively, inferior to the men; but their countenances are cheerful, and
a white napkin gracefully put on the head, had a very classical appearance. For the rest, they
wore a coarse shirt--over that a coarser, without arms, neither coming much below the knee--a
party-coloured apron and stockings, with opunkas, like the men. Near Zara is a small colony
of Albanians, who still retain their national manners and dress, though settled time out of mind.

Ragusa--of old a republic, with its doge and senate--is a city whose glory has departed. This
little state--consisting of the town, the promontory of Sabioncello, the island of Melida,
with a few smaller ones--numbering about forty thousand inhabitants, had never been subject
by Venice, and was governed on the most aristocratic principles. At the time of the late war,
the inhabitants of the city owned about four hundred large vessels--and observing the profiting
by neutrality, they traded every where, and acquired great wealth. But they were not destined
to escape the storm which overthrew so many mightier states. In 1809 they became compulsory
allies of the French. Their nominal independence lasted about two years longer. During the
time the French occupied it, the city was attacked by the combined forces of the Russians and
Montenegrians; the former by sea, while the latter conducted the operations on land. Luckily
they failed to take it; but they burned and destroyed, without exception, every one of the
numerous villas by which it was surrounded. Since the loss of her independence, the trade of
Ragusa has ceased, and her wealth has departed; while many of her once haughty nobility have
no other subsistence than a scanty pension, which the bounty of the government affords them.
The town is interesting, and some of its buildings ancient and peculiar, though hardly to be
called handsome--the scale being small. Of the country houses desolated by the Montenegrians,
not one in twenty has been repaired; and they remain roofless and blackened, a lasting memorial
of the ferocity of that people. The neighbourhood is beautiful, and appears more so after the
stony desolation which the rest of Dalmatia exhibits. Though the houses still remain in ruins,
the gardens continue to be cultivated. Olives, vines, figs, and carruba trees grow in them,
and the tops of the hills are covered with stone pines and delightful evergreens, of heaths,
junipers, cypress, and other plants, which at home we coax to grow in our greenhouses.

Quitting Ragusa, after having been once driven back by the badness of the weather, we at length
entered the Bocca of Cattaro, after a passage of about nine hours. Both in its general and
immediate position, few spots can be imagined so cut off from the rest of the world as Cattaro.
Standing close on the sea, with stupendous mountains overhanging it on each side, it is deprived
even of the light of the sun for the greater part of the day; and, towards the end of November--this
is no boon. By land the Dalmatian coast-road (the only one, I believe, in the country) passes
through it, but it would prove indifferent, I should think, to any but the pedestrian; and
there is also the mountain-path, of three hours' ascent, which leads into Montenegro, and issues
up from the gates of the town in a zigzag form, till it appears lost in the clouds. Any one
wishing to quit Cattaro, has indeed, like the country waiter in England, but "three desperate
alternatives." He must wait for the next steamer, a whole month if in winter, and return the
way he came. Or he may attempt to pass through Albania to Greece or the islands, which would
in all likelihood prove the last attempt he would ever make. Or he may hire one of the country
trabacolos to take him where he likes. They are neither fast in their sailing nor luxurious
in their accommodation--the price being any thing but cheap. In one thing the traveller has
no difficulty, which is to discover the first hotel, as their number is strictly limited. Consequently
in about half an hour, during which the steamer had taken her departure, we found ourselves
the inmates of the principal salon in the Locanda della Corona. It is ever a comfort, when
expectation is not at its highest, to find things better; and happy the mind that seeks it!

The house was not very dirty, the landlady was full of kindness, and not destitute of good
looks. After her first paroxysms of welcome and surprise had passed, then succeeded admiration,
then a general presentation to all friends and relations of the family that could be summoned
on a short notice, with many fervent blessings and prayers for our welfare, and at length,
which pleased us as much as any thing, a very eatable dinner. During that day, and part of
the ensuing week, I improved my acquaintance with Cattaro--an acquaintance which, before final
separation, became very intimate indeed. It contains several small squares or places, with
some churches and other public buildings. There is a respectable café, which is frequented
by the officers of the garrison, and on the whole it is rather a neat little town. The population
may be about three thousand. It is fortified, having two gates to the land and one to the sea.
Perched above, at a great height, is the castle, said to be of considerable strength. In the
late war Cattaro was taken from the French by Sir William Hoste, Bart., and afterwards garrisoned
by the Vladika of Montenegro, since which time an Englishman has hardly been seen by the people
within their gates. Consequently their ideas of robbing the stranger are faint and barbarous;
here, as throughout Dalmatia, should you give a man money, and the sum be not even more than
twice the value of the obligation, the poor ignoramus is delighted, and thanks and blesses
you most fervently. The climate of Cattaro is not considered healthy. The inhabitants die of
consumption in the winter, and fever in the summer, and they generally have a sickly appearance.
There are smart silversmith shops, and many ornaments are wrought with much neatness. There
are several also devoted to the sale of arms, as the Montenegrians here buy and repair the
principal weapons they use. Pistols, guns, and yataghans are mounted in silver and mother-of-pearl,
coral and other stones, with skill and taste. The population are as remote in appearance from
that of any town in western Europe, as in the most primitive part of the East. The town's-people
wear a black jacket of cloth or velvet, with silver basket buttons, a small cap, and wide drawers
of the same cloth, with black stockings or high boots, and a red sash. The costumes of some
of the villages along the shores of the Bocca are very pretty. The women from Dulcinea wear
a body petticoat and jacket of scarlet, with silver buttons and buckles, and a white covering
tastefully enfolding the head and shoulders. The peasantry to the south wear the Montenegrian
dress; the poorer ones, in extreme scantiness. These profess, like that people, the tenets
of the Greek church, and in appearance and dialect do not differ from them. A bolder look,
however, and an air of independence, usually mark the Montenegrian. Between Cattaro and Montenegro
there is no quarantine or restriction of intercourse. Without the latter the former would cease
to exist--without the former life would be burdensome in Montenegro. Three times a-week a bazar
is held outside each of the land gates, to which the Montenegrians descend, themselves loaded
with arms and independence, and their women and mules with the richest products of their country.
Of these, mutton hams of peculiar excellence, potatoes that cannot be imitated in these parts,
salt fish from the lake of Scutari, (to be caught, I fear, no more,) a root which looks yellow,
and dyes to match, with hides, poultry, and pigs, form the principal. One of the chief articles
which they seek is salt, with which some of the above luxuries are compounded. This being a
government monopoly, is sold at the office in the town, and an animated scene takes place on
its opening, each striving to be served first, and, as a matter of course, all speaking at once.

Having in a few days almost exhausted the varieties of Cattaro, and the weather assuming a
more favourable aspect, it became time to execute our intended journey up the mountain. Times
were stirring in Montenegro. The nation was at war with two pashas, and the Vladika had taken
the field in person. Rumours were numerous; we could not have come at a better time, and our
trip promised to be one of interest. His highness's postmaster, a gigantic warrior,[7] waited
on us to furnish mules and guides. Cesarea Petrarca, gentleman, of Cattaro, hairdresser, auctioneer,
and appraiser, ex-courier, formerly chef de cuisine to the Vladika--an "homme capable," as
he not unaptly styled himself, attended us to cook and interpret; and we started for Cettigna
on the 17th of November, about nine o'clock. I may here say a few words concerning the state
of politics then existing in Montenegro. For the last half century or more, under the auspices
of the late revered bishop, so highly sainted in soul,[8] and so beautifully preserved in body,
the Montenegrians, backed secretly by an influential power in the north, have been pursuing
a system of territorial encroachment as well as internal improvement. Anciently their domain
consisted of but a range of gloomy and barren rocks, which would alike oppose the footsteps
and extinguish the hopes of the invader; since which various fertile pianuras have been gained
on the side of Herzigovina and Bosnia. In 1781 Kara Mahmoot, hereditary bey of Scutari, marched
with a great army into Montenegro. Advancing towards Cettigna, he was attacked in a narrow
defile by the Vladika. This was a great day for Montenegro. The Albanians were utterly routed,
and Black Mahmoot, being taken prisoner, surrendered his glory and his head to his priestly
conqueror, and it remains there among the trophies of the Episcopal dwelling. The present Vladika
is not unworthy of his martial uncle. He is truly the flower of the house of Petrowitch. On
his first arrival from St Petersburg to assume the government, his appearance was that of a
Frank[9] gentleman, and his habits those of a priest; but he discovered before long that the
dress of his native mountains better became his manly form, while the troubles in which his
state was so constantly engaged, soon made him exchange the crosier for the sword, and become
as ardent a warrior as his predecessor. Ever since the beginning of the summer, war had been
waged with Osman Pasha of Mostar, concerning a disputed territory. On one occasion the opposed
forces were in sight for a week. The Montenegrians consisted of seven thousand foot--the Turks
(I write according to my information) of forty thousand horse. (!) Every day they fought, sometimes
for two, sometimes four hours and upwards, as fancy dictated. About fifty persons had been
more or less injured in this pastime, but their ardour was rather increasing than diminishing,
when the pasha of Scutari, without notice or warning, seized on the islands of Vranina and
Lessandro, at the head of the lake of Scutari. The Montenegrians had there a post of about
twenty men, but they were overpowered, several killed, and the rest sent captive to Scutari.
Not satisfied with this, he fortified Lessandro in such a manner that no Montenegrian could
fish in the lake with any kind of pleasure or comfort. This was a vital blow. Visions of the
market of Cattaro rose before the eyes of the nation. Peace with Osman Pasha was concluded
at any sacrifice, and the Vladika instantly hastened to concentrate his energies toward the
recovery of the lost islands.

Our party consisted of ourselves and two mules, one being for the luggage--Cesarea Petrarca,
in the full pride of office, and armed for our protection with a very small sword and a very
small gun--a woman who had charge of the mules--and Spiro Martinowitch, an old and respectable
Montenegrian, with Milo his son, to act as guides. We began the ascent about ten o'clock. Close
outside the walls was pointed out a village, the residence of a race of valiant butchers, who
have ever been at feud with the Montenegrians, by whom their numbers have been much reduced.
A tale was related of three having defended themselves against four hundred of the enemy. After
following the steep but otherwise good road for about two hours, we arrived at a stone with
different species of eagles on two sides,[10] which marks the boundary of the respective territories.
The road instantly degenerates into an indifferent mule-track. It took another hour to gain
the principal ascent, then, pursuing our way along the high land, we reached a small hamlet,
where we stopped a few minutes to comfort ourselves with what could be procured. The path from
hence to Cettigna passes over a country which, at any season, must appear barren and inhospitable.
The peaks of the highest mountains in Montenegro rise immediately above it. The ground was
now covered with about an inch of snow, and the air extremely cold. A few stunted bushes of
beech underwood, which serves for fuel, seemed to be the only vegetation. Every thing else,
grey rocks, sharp and rugged, to the smallest fragment. We passed on our way the village of
Negusi, the paternal seat of the family of Petrowitch. Here the present Vladika was born, in
a mansion which was pointed out to us. It is a long-shaped hut, built of loose stones, without
windows or upper story. A somewhat better dwelling is the property of the bishop's uncle, who
governs the village and adjacent district. Passing on by the hamlets of Bayitzi and Donikrai,
we arrived at the Episcopal residence about half-past five in the evening, and immediately
took up our quarters in the first hotel. I will not say that the decorations of the chief apartment
were in the highest style of magnificence; but the bed was clean, and to find any thing clean
in these parts may be considered a victory gained. Our hostess was from Cattaro, the seat of
every refinement to the ideas of a Montenegrian; and our host was a kind civil man, speaking
both French and Italian, and had been formerly engaged in the great war. For the present he
found it convenient to remain in Montenegro, having been lately concerned in an "unfortunate
affair" near Budua, where certain tenements were harried and burned. Cattaro, therefore, and
its delights, were denied him for the present; but it was hoped that the temporary bad odour
would soon pass away. The village was nearly deserted; few remained that night in Cettigna
but ancient men. The Vladika was on and away. He had departed that morning, his brother remaining
to take charge of the place. To-morrow the assault of the fortress was to commence, or, some
said, it had already begun. We felt we had arrived at a good moment, and were prepared to hasten
in the morning to the scene of action, thirsting with excitement. It was thought not unlikely
that a battle might take place. The evening was cold and wet, and we therefore took up our
position over the kitchen fire. In these regions this is placed in the middle of the room,
and the smoke gets out how it can, or not at all. A peculiar sensation in the eyes will present
itself to the mind as the result of such an arrangement. The kitchen, however, besides being
the warmest, was by far the gayest place. Here we watched our dinner cooked, and ate it afterwards;
heard of wars and rumours of wars; listened to heroic ballads, chanted by a warrior, and accompanied
by a species of one-stringed fiddle; and made the acquaintance of two very fashionable young
men. One was the bishop's nephew, a handsome lad about seventeen, who was, on account of his
youth, very shy and modest, and acted as cavaliero servente to the kitchen-maid. The other
was a remarkably good-looking and well-dressed young man, whom I had observed on entering the
place, and set down to be somebody. He was, alas! but a tailor from Bosnia, who had come on
a speculation to Cettigna. A barren profession his, where fashions remain the same summer and
winter, and a suit lasts till it drops off. He was an accomplished musician, as well, on the
one-stringed instrument; boasted of a white pocket-handkerchief, and his Italian, added to
our Servian, made up about twelve words in common; so that the evening passed very sociably,
and we retired to rest full of hope for the morrow. But when that morrow came, one melancholy
prospect of rain and mist presented itself. The white clouds hung on the mountain-tops immediately
above. Not a breath of wind was stirring, and the rain descended in torrents. There seemed
not a chance of its clearing, nor did it during the whole day. It was not, therefore, considered
prudent to proceed, where no bed was to be found, and where the chance of even shelter was
any thing but certain. Add to which, my companion in arms was taken with a violent cold; so
we felt obliged to restrain our military ardour for one day, and proceeded to seek such recreation
as the metropolis afforded. Cettigna, the seat of the government of Montenegro, and residence
of the Vladika, is yet a city of no great magnitude. It is situated prettily enough on a little
plain, around which the rocky summits of the mountains rise in the form of an amphitheatre;
not to any great height, however--the elevation of the plain itself being very great. The most
ancient building, indeed the only one which seems not to have been erected within these few
years, is the monastery. This was till very lately the residence of the Vladika and his predecessors,
and it was here the King of Saxony lodged when he visited Montenegro in 1836.[11] It is situated
on the side of the rocks which bound the plain, and consists of several buildings of different
periods joined together. The oldest has two rows of arched passages, or cloisters, in front,
one above the other. Behind the convent, a wall runs up the hill, and encloses a small circuit
of rocky ground. The whole is in a very uncertain state of repair. On the summit of a small
rock immediately above, is a round tower, built apparently for ornament at no very ancient
date, but never finished or roofed. It does not owe its decorations to the hand of the architect.
They are of a rarer kind. From the ends of poles fastened into the top of the wall, two or
three dozen heads, in all stages of decay, overlook the residence of a Christian bishop. These
are Turks or Albanians who have fallen in different encounters, or possibly in cold blood,
as the Montenegrians never spare the life of a prisoner. It was with somewhat doubtful feelings
that I contemplated these trophies. Around, the earth was strewed with skulls and other relics
of humanity. It was said that no head had been put up for nearly two years. Certain it is,
that the Lord Vladika did not cause to be placed there the heads of eighteen Turkish commissioners,
who, in the August previous, entered Montenegro to discuss a boundary question. But why should
I tell tales? I was hospitably received, and treated, me and mine, with civility and kindness,
not only by the Vladika, but by every individual I met, and returned with my head undisturbed
by the trip. Some of the countenances still bore traces of good looks, though withered by the
sun and storm of years. It was a severe test for beauty; but the head of one young man certainly
stood the trial. Fine features, of a cast frequently seen towards the north of Albania, and
a set of the best teeth, (this is very general,) showed that he might have once been more prosperous
in love than he proved to be in war. I thought of a relic, and took up a skull, the best I
could find, but it was full of red earth, and seemed damp and unpleasant; so I put it down
again. I next discovered a beautiful tooth; this would have surpassed the former in elegance
and convenience, but I fancied it not either, and came away, trusting to my mind for a remembrance
of the spot. From hence I made a sketch of the present residence of the bishop, the second
among the remarkable edifices of Cettigna and its environs. It was built within these five
years, under the auspices of no less than my trusty attendant Petrarca. The style is not, strictly
speaking, imposing. Perhaps this arose from suggestions of economy, or possibly from the mind
of the architect being at that moment unprepared with any other. Simplicity in design and execution
characterize it throughout. It consists of a long single building of one low story, containing
two rows of about twenty windows on each side. There is a door in the middle, and at each end
a small wing placed crosswise, and a very little higher than the rest, containing a window
above and a door below. Both before and behind, a large court is enclosed by a low wall of
loose stones, with little turrets at the corners, and two doorways in the principal. In the
front court are some old brass and iron cannon, lying dismounted--trophies of Turkish war.
Behind is an attempted kitchen garden. The remainder of Cettigna is small, hardly worth mentioning--six
or seven houses with an upper floor, and about twice as many ordinary huts. This forms the
metropolis of Montenegro. But small as it is, I doubt if there be a bigger village in the country,
the population, though sufficiently numerous, dwelling in small scattered hamlets. The better
houses act as hostelries when called on, which may be the case when Parliament is sitting;
but apart from the bishop's officials and retainers, the place does not probably contain a
hundred souls. It being now noon, and the rain unabated, we determined to see all the sights
of the city. His highness's residence was first visited. It contains the Chamber of Deputies,
a printing establishment, and various apartments for the accommodation of friends and relatives.
Entering one of these we found the Vladika's brother, whom I have previously alluded to, and
had the honour of a presentation. He is a very ordinary-looking personage; and, as the powers
of language were wanting to express our feelings, we soon took leave. The bishop's rooms for
public and private reception, consist of a billiard-room no bigger than is necessary for the
due performance of the game, at which he is a great adept, a small anteroom and bedroom. His
valet and chamberlain, a well-dressed Montenegrian, did the honours. In the billiard-room the
walls are hung with arms, though some of these were now absent on service. I observed some
fine Turkish swords, some of an ancient date, presents to different Vladikas; some Albanian
daggers, straight, with a triangular blade, resembling the ancient Venetian misericordes; and
a handsomely mounted and antique Servian sword, the blade with the wolf-mark, so well known
in the Highlands and other parts of Europe. There were some handsome fire-arms; and, among
others, a splendid pipe lately presented by Osman Pasha of Mostar. In the anteroom I remarked
with pleasure a small three-legged stand, with a basin and towel; and I have heard that other
contrivances for the purification of the Episcopal person are not wanting, though no such met
my eye. In the bedroom, where the odour of tobacco still remained unmitigated, was a cabinet,
which, when opened, displayed objects well worthy the attention of the next pasha who may visit
Cettigna. Russian orders and snuff-boxes uncountable, set in the choicest brilliants; presents
from the Emperors of Austria of no mean value; a remembrance or two of the King of Saxony,
&c. &c. All these were opened by the cameriere to our free inspection; but not for this, nor
the trouble we afterwards gave him when exhibiting the sacerdotal robes, keeping him above
half the day, would he accept the smallest remuneration. This completed the public rooms, (his
highness is reported on occasions to give grand entertainments, but the whereabouts was not
manifest,) and we proceeded to the ancient convent. This, formerly the Episcopal dwelling,
is still the residence of the chief officials attached to the Vladika. The first among these
is the vicar--(his other avocations having only permitted the Vladika to officiate on two occasions)--"no
baron or squire or knight of the shire," &c. Truly on this occasion the holy father had not
been unmindful of himself; and, considering the early hour and dreary state of the weather;
was as jovial as the heart could desire. A peculiar leer and frequent ebullitions of laughter,
from mysterious causes, showed the frame of mind he was in. After coffee, and a glass of aniseed
brandy, we viewed his priestly robes, which were of cloth of gold and very handsome. We then
proceeded to make the acquaintance of the other officials, going the round of the convent.
We were most cordially received; indeed, we appeared to be a godsend to these poor people.
There was a Dalmatian schoolmaster, a very intelligent young man, who superintended the branch
of national education; his highness's secretary, an Italian; and a woman from Cattaro, the
wife of another now absent at the camp, and the only example of female aristocracy in Montenegro.
At the apartment of each of the inmates, coffee, invariably excellent, and glasses of brandy,
were handed round. These the holy personage in our company always emptied to the uttermost,
and then would romp and wrestle with the schoolmaster, and perform all kinds of frolics. He
was a Hungarian by birth. When our German or his Italian respectively failed, then Latin assisted
our communications; and, what with the wet weather and the coffee, we all became very sociable
and chatty. After an hour or two so spent, we took our way to the chapel. It is very small;
not capable, I should say, of accommodating above twenty or thirty persons. There, embalmed,
are the remains of the late Vladika. The vicar removed the lid of the coffin, and he there
appeared attired in full canonicals. His face, however, was hidden, and the covering was not
removed. The limbs appeared to be much shrunk. The holy man took the hand of the deceased,
and, kissing it with the most solemn devotion, burst into a wild laugh, and closed the lid.
A small trifle pro salute animæ was expected in a box adjoining it. We next went to the robe-room,
passing along a series of mouldy and rat-eaten floors to a small room, such as might be found
in a dilapidated stable-loft; there, from old dingy boxes, were drawn forth such garments as
created astonishment--the richest damask and cloth of gold of all colours--their weight enormous--so
massive that they would almost stand alone. I have never seen any thing so splendid; and the
effect of such upon the fine form of the Vladika must be worth beholding. In another chest
were deposited the crowns of different Vladikas. They are of a shape resembling the ancient
Russian diadem, being not of the form of any kind of coronet, but a cap all covered or entire,
globular at top, and diminishing towards where they fit the head. Perhaps there were half a
dozen or more. They were richly ornamented with precious stones--the present Vladika's the
most so. I understand they are presents from St Petersburg. By nine next morning the rain had
somewhat cleared, and the weather was mild and promising. We started, therefore, hoping that
night to reach the quarters of the Vladika, though no one could speak positively to the place.
We made some enquiries as to the chance of finding shelter, as the nights were singularly cold;
but it was of course apparent that time alone could decide. None of our friends from the monastery,
who had been so warlike the day before, made their appearance; so we started without any addition
to our party. The road was nearly all on the descent, and usually so stony and rough as to
make riding the mule a matter of difficulty. We passed by Dobro Skorsello, one of the richest
communes of Montenegro; there figs, vines, and olives are grown: a wild species of mulberry
occurs, and large trees of it frequently appeared before a hut or hamlet. These are wide-spreading
and ancient, but not tall. This district furnishes seven thousand fighting men. Here we met
the wife of one of the principal senators among a troop of females with bundles of wood upon
their head. We now had the first intelligence from the camp. Descending into a little plain
we met about two hundred men returning to celebrate a village fête, as their services were
not just then required. They passed in single file; wild, active-looking fellows they certainly
were. In about half an hour after, we encountered forty or fifty others. These were peculiarly
warm in their friendship, and slapped me so hard on the back that it required my utmost force
to return the compliment with any thing like cordiality. They took it into their heads that
I was a certain long-expected bombardier who was to direct their artillery against Lessandro,
and they loaded me with compliments and good wishes. I almost, at the moment, regretted my
want of knowledge in the art. About one o'clock we descended upon the Nariako river, then a
rapid clear green stream, which conducts the torrents of the upper mountains to the lake of
Scutari; and, in another hour, reached the village of that name, which is known also by the
Italian one of Fiumara. We trusted here to procuring a boat which would convey us the remainder
of the journey; but the natives of this free country are seldom in a hurry, and in fact it
was necessary that we should be made popular idols for a certain space; nor had we the means
of keeping each other in countenance. I was hurried off, accompanied by Petrarca, to the house
of the captain of the district, a senator, I understood, and eminently brave; while my unfortunate
companion, without any one to help, was taken possession of by a lady of rank, a Cattarese
by birth, but who had nearly forgotten her native tongue, and in a short time was surrounded
by all the females and olive branches of the place. The usual brandy, with coffee and pipes,
was served to our party. The houses, or little dirty huts rather, have in front a small balcony
covered at top, and raised about four or five feet from the ground; here Spiro, Petrarca, and
myself were seated, with my host and several others. While the lady of the house brought in
the pipes and refreshments, I made some very sensible observations, which Petrarca clothed
in Servian, and the replies seemed in every way equal; notwithstanding, in about an hour the
liveliness of the scene began somewhat to wear off, and I took the first opportunity of hastening
to rescue the other sufferer. Here I discovered the object of public attention seated on a
bench with her host and hostess, one on each knee as it were, and the room thronged with spectators;
women and children were squatted or perched on every conceivable spot. The harmony of the party
had, however, undergone for a moment a trifling disorder; for, while all the rest had been
full of compliment and courtesy, one elderly lady had thought proper to express herself in
a manner contradictory to the general feeling, and in the strongest terms, going even the length
of shaking her fist at the occupant of the post of honour. She was, however, bundled out most
unceremoniously, neck and crop, as the phrase is. After further delays, and declining a most
uninviting dormitory, a boat was got ready; four warriors were in her, and we departed amid
the cheers of the population and a promiscuous discharge of fire-arms. This was warmly responded
to by our party; nor did I much regret when these demonstrations had ceased, as a Montenegrian
considers it quite etiquette to discharge his heavy-loaded piece any where in the immediate
vicinity of the head, so long as the muzzle just clears the honoured individual. In a few minutes
we were gliding down the beautiful stream. The absence of all wild animals is peculiarly observable
in the mountains. A woodcock or red-legged partridge are occasionally seen; but few quadrupeds
are met with, and the larger and fiercer kinds are rarely known to occur. This deficiency,
however, in the general zoology, is amply compensated by the birds which frequent the Fiumara
river. As we proceeded, muffled up in the bottom of the boat, for it was very cold, the fitful
exertions of our warlike crew disturbed quantities of aquatic birds. The river widened greatly,
the mountain banks disappearing, till at length the shores became obscure in the distance,
and thus it imperceptibly enters and forms the lake of Scutari. Cormorants and ducks passed
over in flocks; noble herons got up screaming on every side. One of these was the milk-white
aigrette; superior in size to the common heron. The kingfishers had a beautiful appearance.
I never saw this bird elsewhere in such multitudes. I did not request any of my crew to try
their skill, as I had had enough of firing for the time being, nor did I take a fancy to do
so myself. The large bore and light metal of their arms, added to the weight of the charge,
spoke of a recoil any thing but pleasing, and which I hear usually takes place. Next day, however,
I asked the captain of the boat to show me a shot; he took aim at a diver which kept appearing
a-head; he fired when nothing but the neck was visible above water, and the ball completely
divided it, the head barely hanging by a bit of skin. The bird was distant about fifty yards,
and the boat moving, while he stood on the bow. At some longer shots he was not so successful.
We passed a village at a small distance, and lay on our oars to hear the news. Most of the
people were absent; but one, a great man, was seated on the hut-top, with a few idlers round
him. This was the chief president of the senate--the speaker of the house, in short; and undoubtedly,
if stentorian lungs are of any use for that office in a Montenegrian parliament, he was most
amply qualified. For twenty minutes this eminent man conversed with us--the distance at first
being about a quarter of a mile, and probably it might be three miles or more before he was
finally out of hearing. The Turkish fortress of Dzabiack now appeared perched on a steep isolated
hill rising from the marsh. It seemed, as we passed it about two miles off, to be in a very
dilapidated condition. The Montenegrians, however, had at present no designs upon it; and its
garrison maintained a peaceful neutrality. They have on several occasions destroyed this fortress,
which has been occupied again by the Turks. It gives then little annoyance, being distant,
I should think, five miles from the head of the lake. All was now water, but the principal
channels above were passable, the rest being overgrown with weeds. At several of these, long
consultations occurred as to our best route. It began to rain a little, and the place of our
destination seemed doubtful. At length we emerged on the broad beautiful lake, and our progress
was easy. We soon came in sight of the beleaguered island and fortress of Lessandro. The cannonade,
which we had heard during the earlier part of the day, had long ceased, and all seemed quiet.
It was still twilight, but the place to which our people had determined on going, lay beyond
the foot of a mountain which projected to a nearer approach with the island. This was the very
mountain on the top of which the Vladika had placed his batteries. They considered it prudent,
therefore, to wait till dark, before passing within point-blank range of the enemy's guns.
We, therefore, hauled the boat up, and waited under lee of the point. As soon as the light
had failed, we moved forward, passing stealthily along the shore to within about three hundred
yards of the fort. The previous garrulity of our party was now hushed, and they exhibited the
most laudable prudence. I observed, however, that they had all their guns cocked and ready,
as if they intended to have returned any compliment from the fortress; but no such contingency
was at hand. The Albanians were engaged in chanting martial choruses, possibly to maintain
their own valour as well as dismay their opponents, and show what excellent health and spirits
they possessed after the two days' siege. At any rate, they made too much noise to hear any
thing but themselves. As we went along shore, we were several times challenged by those on
the look-out, and long explanations passed in low yet distinct tones. At length the danger
was passed, and we went a-head for about two miles along the lake; then, turning off up a deep
sluggish stream, we came in sight of our quarters. A large fire blazed in the principal of
three huts, and by its light numerous persons were seen around it. Landing with our baggage
and equipage, we soon joined the circle; about a dozen warriors were here assembled. They were
very civil to us, and glad to see our party. They gave us the best place at the fire, where,
spreading our plaids, we were soon occupied with such dainties as the place or our own providence
supplied. When it came to be bed-time, the fighting part of the community good-naturedly suffered
themselves to be persuaded to go to the other end of the room, by which means we were enabled
to lie down by the fire. There they rolled themselves up, and, in the shortest possible time,
were in a state of oblivion. I may observe that the people in general, men or women, have seldom
any beds. They lie down any where on the floor, ensconced in a capote or cloak, removing perhaps
their opunkas, but scarcely ever any other garment. We should have been pretty comfortable
but for the minute hosts that peopled the apartment. Late at night, too, the extreme cold compelled
several parties to seek refuge by the fire who had no right or little thereto--as the house-cat
and her two kittens; she would take no denial, however often repelled. Whenever one awoke,
there she would be with her interesting offspring close nestled under one's chin. The family
dog, too, suffered severely from cold; he was, as often as he entered, kicked out by his master
in a way that did the heart good; and his murmurs of complaint and resentment would last for
a full ten minutes. But the door would not fasten, and he always found his way in again, trampling
over, in his way to the fire, the recumbent forms of the sleepers, in a manner far from conducive
to good-humour. It was, therefore, not to be wondered at that our slumbers were not prolonged
to a late hour. I set forth at break of day to find a clear-looking place in the river: for
as I was to be presented to his highness, I could not afford to forego any advantages. The
ice was on the side of the pools; but with the aid of a small box I carried under my arm, I
soon had all the requisites of an elaborate dressing-room. Several of the Montenegrians were
also on the alert, rubbing their faces with the muddy water on the edge of the lake; but whether
to make them cleaner or dirtier did not appear. Breakfast was soon dispatched. Already the
cannonade had commenced, and we hastened to the scene of action. Lessandro is a small low islet,
perhaps a hundred yards long by forty or fifty wide; at one end was the principal, at the other,
a minor fort. The first consisted of a thick round tower, flat at top, where their largest
gun was mounted. This was surrounded by a low wall, with two small bastions at different angles;
the other was a square building, with a bastion at one corner, containing, I believe, the stores.
All over the island were the tents of the soldiers--that of the commander distinguished by
a red flag. I think I counted about forty. The Montenegrians declared they had in the island
five hundred men. Not one was visible however, the whole day. Under the lee of the chief fort
was anchored a small gun-boat from Scutari. On one side of Lessandro rises, in immediate proximity,
the mountainous island of Vranina. It was here that the Vladika at first wished to have taken
up his position; but boats, it was said, were wanting to transport his men and munitions. Had
he attempted this, a serious encounter would probably have taken place; but he had given up
the idea, and it was as in consequence of this that we had met the men returning home the day
before. The spot he fixed on was a mountain directly opposite Vranina, but at a greater distance
from the object of attack. He had not with him altogether above fifty men. This time we had
once more to pass within a quarter of a mile of the fort; and as we were a boat-load of armed
men hastening to headquarters, I somewhat expected they might have condescended to notice us.
Such, however, was not the case; and we landed and ascended the hill to where the battery was
placed. We had not been there long before the Vladika, who was on a higher part of the ground,
having heard of our arrival, came down to meet us. I felt for a moment rather modest, and began
to wonder what business I had there. However, we advanced with all boldness, and soon distinguished
the chieftain from his attendants by his giant stature. No bishop's cassock covered his towering
form. Clothed in scarlet and gold, he descended the hill with the true Albanian strut. His
manner was frank and cordial; and on his invitation we all three sat down on the grass to partake
of a camp luncheon. The Vladika was then in the thirty-fifth year of his age. In truth, he
was a goodly man--a very Saul among his people. His height I should think very nearly midway
between six and seven feet. He was not fat, but the breadth and massiveness of his chest and
limbs was extraordinary. His figure was very finely proportioned, and his movements free and
active. His face was somewhat broad, with good features, and his voice peculiarly soft and
pleasing. His hair and beard black, and, after the fashion of the Greek clergy, uncut. He wore
a Turkish pelisse of scarlet, coming nearly to the knee, and trimmed with gold and sable, a
large fur cap, and the usual blue drawers and opunkas of the Montenegrians. A pair of plain
European pistols were in his belt--the only arms he wore. The place where we sat was in a most
picturesque situation. The Turkish balls kept whizzing past, forming, as his highness remarked,
beautiful music. Indeed, it seemed to me we were very nearly in the line a well-directed shot
ought to have taken; but, of course, it was not my place to speak. Our fare consisted of cold
meat carved in slices with the yataghan, and rum out of the mouth of the same bottle. He conversed
in French fluently, and various courteous speeches showed it was not the first time he had
encountered female society. He seemed excited when relating the misdeeds of his enemies, and
his usually languid voice assumed a little asperity, as he described the way in which, while
he made war in Bosnia, "ces diables des Turcs" had surprised his garrison at Lessandro. My
knowledge of gunnery was not extensive, still I could not be ignorant of the chance he had,
with three short twelve-pounders, of injuring any building whatever, when firing at it at a
distance of eight hundred yards, in an almost perpendicular direction. The fort, besides, seemed
very sturdy and solid, and I could not flatter him with hopes of success. He did not, however,
appear to be without hope. Certainly, had he chosen to risk an assault with some trifling loss,
the place might have been in his possession; but boats were not at hand in sufficient numbers,
and besides, such a proceeding might not have been popular with amateur soldiers. He asked
me if I had brought any letters to him; I frankly owned I had not. "Ah!" he said, "you came
from curiosity, that you might talk in the gay circles of London, of having seen the Vladika
of Montenegro." I did not say, that were I to do so, I should talk very unintelligibly to a
great many of my hearers. After our collation was finished, we rose and proceeded to the battery,
if it could be honoured with such a name. But had its power been as extensive as the view from
it, it would have amply sufficed. The day was now most beautiful and spring-like, and various
flowers, with sportive butterflies and other insects, enlivened the mountain side. The broad
blue lake lay beneath, and in the extreme distance the position of Scutari itself could be
distinguished. Three ranges of mountains were visible, rising one above the other, till the
snowy chains of Bosnia bounded the horizon. The cannonade, as there was little to be apprehended,
added to the beauty and interest. The wreathing of the white smoke on the Turkish tower, and
the report borne along in the calm air, and echoed a dozen times by the distant mountains--the
gradual approach and whizzing of the balls, and the shot from our guns, as it hit the buildings,
or occasionally bounded along the water, were all interesting novelties. I made a sketch, to
the best of my ability, of every object of interest in the vicinity of this lovely spot. As
regards matters purely military, we had three guns in operation--short twelves, as I have already
mentioned; a rampart was before them, formed of earth, bound with stakes, and about three feet
thick. I was told this had only been struck four times. Few people were about. Nor could gunners
of fame have been in plenty, for I soon discovered Petrarca pointing the cannon. The shot also
was of different sizes--any that could be got, as Austria does not favour the importation of
warlike materials into Montenegro; and to this disparity of metal may be ascribed the constant
difficulty which the Montenegrian gunners experienced in hitting even the island. Still they
kept the game alive, the Turks not giving one shot for three. They appeared to have four guns,
but their biggest was on the platform of the chief tower, a screen of masonry protecting it
from lying entirely open to our position on the hill. They fired also several shells, but they
did no damage, exploding high in the air. At length the Vladika approached the best cannon,
anxious to display his skill. He took a long aim, and then fired, exulting greatly when the
ball struck the stone screenwork at top of the tower. This was just where he aimed, and it
was the best shot by far that I had seen. A little dust seemed to fly, but no further damage.
The reply of the Turks came promptly, but his highness did not honour their skill by even ducking
below the rampart. It lodged in the side of the hill several feet below us. We remained, enjoying
the interesting scene and beautiful day, till about one o'clock, when the Montenegrian batteries
suspended operations from a temporary failure of ammunition. Being desirous of passing the
night in less crowded quarters than the previous one, we now took our leave of the Vladika,
and returned to the hamlet we had left in the morning; and having with some difficulty procured
a pony, we set off to get as far on our road to Cattaro as we could, not returning by Cettigna,
which would have been round about, but entering the Austrian territory above Budua and Castel
Astua--Cattaro at present lying to the north-west of us. The boy who conducted this same pony,
(a little mare, with a mule foal running beside her,) was the most unmitigated savage I have
met with on my travels, though not more than ten years old. He was the ugliest little urchin
I ever saw--his only clothing was a piece of an old sack and ragged opunkas. After galloping
some distance to meet us, his mind misgave him as to his pistol, and he returned and made his
father, who was working in the field, exchange with him. He then undertook to lead the pony,
(the animals here do not go pleasantly unless led, and also by some one they are acquainted
with,) which he did in the most desperate manner, walking at about seven miles an hour. No
concern of his what became of the knees of the occupant, or with what stones or thorns they
might be brought into collision. When he came to a precipice in the road, and there were many,
down he jumped tugging the beast after him, and not looking behind once. All this time the
foal kept jamming up against its mother. It was soon evident that the dismissal of this youth
and his cattle was a sine qua non, as cautions were vain. But on a sum being offered which
he considered less than his due, having come about a mile, he took his own part in a manner
most edifying in one so young; and had the retainers of our party not been as well provided
as he, I believe he would have pistolled the whole of us. At length, finding his efforts fruitless,
he sprang on the pony, and putting her to her best pace, was soon out of sight. About the same
time we fell in with two monks from the convent of Bercelli, who were on their way to pay their
respects to the Vladika. This was fortunate, as we had intended to sleep there. These were
the only inmates, and had the key of the place with them. After treating the party to brandy,
one of them turned back with us. He was an old man, and he had to return a distance of twelve
miles; but he never seemed to give this a thought. They were dressed in black gowns, and high
black caps. Our road lay through a populous district, and many were the salutations Petrarca
received, coupled with enquiries respecting us--long conversations taking place over miles
of intervening hill and dale. This time, I believe, I filled the part of the English ambassador.
The outward appearance of our quarters, when we arrived, was not prepossessing; but the state
of dirt of the best room could hardly have been anticipated. Its equal--I speak advisedly--could
not be found out of the country we were in. The floors mouldy and rat-eaten--old shelves hanging
about, containing every kind of rubbish--crusts of bread, a bit of tallow candle in a bottle--old
cups and glasses in different directions, with the remains of something in the bottom of every
one. The only covering on the boards which formed the bed, was a sheepskin blanket, very old
and dirty, looking like the mother of fleas. It would take a page to mention the manifold horrors
that presented themselves. At length, after a late bad supper, I felt repose desirable, be
it where it might. We had stipulated, however, for the sole possession of this melancholy dormitory,
and having made up the best bed I could, turned in with loathing; but the cold made one less
particular, as it was hard frost, and the windows had no shutter or fastening of any kind.
I found, however, there was one exception to our sole right of tenure; no other than the old
priest himself, whom I had shortly to get up and let in. Poor man! he had nowhere else to go;
and having given up his luxurious couch, he proposed for himself to court slumber on the top
of an old chest--it looked hard, certainly, and the poor old man seemed ill at ease. All night
he rested none. He groaned much, and was afflicted with a cough and its usual results; and
in each result he laboured long and strenuously, as though putting his whole soul in it, till
a severe shock on the opposite wall showed the successful issue of his exertions. We did not
lie in bed next morning very long after waking, and by six o'clock were on our road, expressing
a firm determination to reach Cattaro or perish, sooner than pass another night in a Montenegrian
homestead. There was no other mule to be procured to-day, so it was a case of riding and tying
with the portmanteau. When the latter walked, it usually did so on the head of the poor woman
who brought the mule. The remainder of our luggage consisted of two carpet-bags, and Spiro
and Melo slung one of these upon each of their guns, and proceeded merrily. We entered the
Austrian territory by the village of Braitsch. The people hereabouts are very poor and ill-off.
Our way overlooked the sea; below us lay Budua. We halted, to give ourselves and the mule a
drink, by the fort of Stanivitch. This was formerly a convent, and under the dominion of Montenegro;
but Austria has lately become possessor of it, through, I believe, a pecuniary arrangement
with the Vladika. His territory, however, at no time reached the sea in any part, though this
is not distant above two or three miles; it was now a military post. A Moravian captain was
in command, who most politely invited us to stay the night, fearing we should be unable to
reach Cattaro; however, it was then only four o'clock, the day was bright, and the sight of
the sea encouraged us. Besides, I noticed a flea on the collar of his coat. We thanked him
for his kindness, and persevered on our journey. Our road lay nearly all on the descent, and
while it was good, and the daylight lasted, we hurried forward with all speed. At length it
became very rocky and precipitous; and, as the light soon failed entirely, it became necessary
to mount the portmanteau, as it was not possible for any biped to sustain it longer on their
head, and to maintain their equilibrium as well. From very bad, things got to much worse. The
track, as well as the whole country, was composed of angular grey rocks, among which, in the
now total darkness, it became nearly impossible to discern the path. These stones had a light
appearance, and it was desirable to avoid bringing one's shins in contact with them; but if
a spot seemed dark, and might be imagined to be soft ground, it proved to be one of the villanous
prickly bushes of the country. This shrub grows all over Albania and Dalmatia, and, I believe,
in Italy; it is low and bushy, with abundance of flat round seed; the spines are set both ways,
up and down the twig, and are the most malignant thorns I ever met with. Whatever part of your
garments they catch hold of, from that they have never been known to part. Presently our road
became inhabited by a stream of water, and every step that avoided the stones was ankle-deep
in mud. How the mule could have got on, as I could not see, I cannot imagine, but the box which
it carried was not seriously damaged. The two guides in their opunkas walked firmly, but the
others were tumbling frequently. The female who had come with us now fairly "compounded," according
to the sporting phrase, and gave vent to her sufferings in tears and reproaches. This had,
however, a reviving effect upon others of our party, who were near compounding themselves--for
I had rather been holding out the endurance of this poor woman, who had walked most of the
day with a portmanteau on her head, as an example for imitation. The town of Cattaro at length
became visible far below us, after almost the longest three hours I ever passed. At other times,
I might have been tempted to derive amusement from the mishaps of my friends under similar
circumstances; but at present, some of the party had been reduced to such desperation, that
I began sometimes to doubt the favourable issue of our journey. By nine o'clock the land gates
are closed, and this we had heard already strike. The sea gate is open for another hour. It
was not till after this, that, having gained the coast road which leads to Cattaro from the
south, we reached the town. There, a boat was requisite to take us over the sea gate; but all
the town boats had long since retired, and it took us at least half an hour to awake somebody
on board a trabacolo in the harbour. When at length we were conveyed to the gate, a small gratuity
to the sentinels gained us admission, and a little before midnight we found ourselves once
more in our favourite inn. We remained some days at Cattaro, arranging for our departure. During
this time, we heard that the Vladika had at length found his task hopeless, and abandoned hostilities.
He had been, however, a week arriving at such a conclusion, and the sound of the cannonade
was heard during the whole of the time occupied by our return. It was a pity to see a worthy
potentate of moderate means spending his pocket-money so fruitlessly. The philanthropist will
be glad to learn that no lives were sacrificed during this protracted siege. The Montenegrians,
more modest than some of our own neighbours on a late occasion of very similar glory, laid
claim only to having wounded one man in the fort; but an Albanian bulletin might have denied
even that.

Before concluding, a few further particulars concerning Montenegro will not be out of place.
In former days, as I have observed, they were but a den of mountain thieves, dangerous to each
other, and unapproachable by strangers. At the present time, no country can boast superiority
in either of these respects. Indeed, in so small a community, crime is rare, from the greater
certainty of detection. I speak nothing, of course, of border pastimes with their neighbours;
and these, possibly, form a safety-valve to the pent-up propensities of the inhabitants. This
important change has been brought about within fifty years, but, most of all, during the twelve
years that the present Vladika has reigned. But the Vladikas who have effected this change,
actuated by the desire of improving the condition of their people, have been obliged to barter
their independence, in a manner, for Russian gold, in order to give them the means of effecting
it. I am not able to say when the subsidizing system first commenced, but at present the Vladika,
as well as all the officials and senators, receive their stipends. That of the Vladika amounts,
I believe, to about eight thousand pounds annually; but this may include a small tax of, I
think, two shillings on each household, which is paid by the Montenegrians themselves. Of the
senators, there are forty who are elected by the communes, and paid by Russia. There is also
a force of eight hundred men paid, and residing in different districts, which forms an executive
police; but there is nothing in the shape of a standing army. The Vladikas are appointed by
the emperor in nepotal succession from the family of Petrovitch. The present Vladika received
his education at St Petersburg, and several of his nephews are now there, from whom his successor
will be chosen. I am not acquainted with the amount of temporal power possessed by the Vladika,
but I should think it was subject to much restraint. I have heard that, on more than one occasion
in the senate, he has been personally threatened during the stormy debates which have occurred.
Though he is generally popular, it would seem that here, as elsewhere, there exists a strong
party opposed to all reform, and pining for the good old days of general license. The demeanour
of the Montenegrians to their Vladika, though respectful, is free and independent. On meeting
him the hand is raised to the head, or, if near, they offer to kiss his hand. This salutation
is paid to any ordinary priest, and occasionally, through all Dalmatia, to a stranger like
myself. Russia, it will be seen, reigns as completely in Montenegro as though its passes were
occupied by her soldiers. The supplies stopped, all would be anarchy and confusion. Nor do
the Montenegrians object to this in any way. Their personal independence is in no way compromised,
and their laws and usages remain unaltered. There is not a single Russian in Montenegro, and,
only knowing them at distance, they regard them at present with hearty good-will. The Vladika,
however, who reaps the greatest benefits, has, it would appear, to submit to a certain loss
of freedom. During the past summer he visited Trieste and Vienna; and I was informed, on good
authority, had desired to go to England, but had been unable to obtain the permission of an
emperor who seems determined no one shall travel but himself. The Vladika had certainly expressed
to me a hope that he should visit England some time. There can be no doubt that it is well
worth while thus to secure the alliance of the Montenegrians, for they would prove a bitter
thorn in any collision either with Turkey or Austria. The country is divided into twelve military
jurisdictions, under so many captains, and every man is bound to serve, though by what power,
except inclination, I am sure I do not know. I do not imagine that this has been particularly
provided for, so willing are they to serve uncalled.

The population of Montenegro is at the present time not short of one hundred and twenty thousand
souls. Of these, more than half would be serviceable were their own territory invaded; for
every boy of eight years old and upwards carries a gun, and there is no reason he should not
point it as straight as an older person, presenting, at the same time, a smaller mark to the
enemy. The women even occasionally assist, and at all times carry the ammunition and supplies.
I used sometimes to think, when meeting one of these armed urchins, how ignominious it would
be to be robbed by him; and yet, were he only cunning enough to keep out of arm's-length, I
don't exactly know how it could be helped. The arms of the Montenegrians consist of a long
gun, usually very elegantly mounted, the stock short, and curved like a horse's neck; round
his waist is a belt with cartouch-boxes containing the spare ammunition, the cartridges for
immediate use being in the pistol-belt in front. Here, in a leather case, is a mass of arms
which occupy the same relative position to the wearer as the youthful kangaroo to its parent;
here are a brace of pistols with a pointed pommel, and a yataghan, which is used in these countries
to the entire exclusion of the sword, and which, from its position in the belt, does not get
in the way when walking--the ramrod for the pistols also, which in the East is a separate arm,
containing sometimes a dagger or a pair of tongs for adjusting the never-absent pipe, and a
smaller knife is often slung on behind. In ordinary times, a yataghan or pistol may be dispensed
with; but whatever may be the occupation of man or boy, the gun is never left behind, whether
ploughing, or cutting wood, or carrying the heaviest burdens. It is almost extraordinary that
they should thus encumber themselves, as, within their own boundary, none are so safe, and
their mountains seldom afford them a living mark. I believe it arises very much from a fondness
for the weapon. The greatest care is taken of it, and it undergoes a complete cleaning after
every shot. The arms of the people in general present a striking contrast to their dress. On
the former they spend most of their spare money, and they are kept in great order and cleanliness.
The warriors, when they take the field, fight more for plunder than for honour and glory. The
spoils of houses and farm-steads, or the arms or heads of their enemies, (a prisoner is never
spared,) all form desirable prizes. It must be remembered their service is chiefly voluntary,
and they receive no pay. It is not their tactics to expose themselves much in battle. The grey
rocks, which suit well the colour of their dress, afford a shelter, from behind which they
take well-directed aim. Every man acts to the best of his judgment--usually acute where self-preservation
is the law; and their great activity and powers of endurance enable them, in their difficult
country, to contend with many advantages against regular troops. In 1838, during a temporary
collision with Austria, they gave as good as they received, to say the least; and perhaps it
was owing to this that peace was so soon concluded. In such a country cavalry is out of the
question, and horses are seldom used. The Vladika himself possesses a considerable stud. The
dress of the people--at all seasons the same--consists of a white coat of coarse cloth, with
generally a blue edging, open in front, and reaching nearly to the knee. This has no buttons,
but is fastened round the waist by a red sash. They are usually shirtless, and their hardy
bosoms brave the storm in all weathers. Around their shoulders is thrown a description of plaid,
generally of a brown colour, about three feet wide and six feet long; and from keeping this
in its proper position, a slight stoop becomes habitual. They have wide drawers of blue serge,
or sometimes of the material of their coats, which is thicker; of this also are their leggings
formed. Under the opunkas is worn a thick woollen sock; but in wet weather the men and women
usually go barefooted. On their head is a small round cap of scarlet or black cloth. Their
custom is to shave the whole of the face excepting the mustaches, as well as the sides and
crown of the head; but from long neglect, it is often difficult to distinguish the favoured
localities. Petrarca, in his avocation of barber, was in the greatest request. The costume
of the women does not differ widely, but the coat is longer, and a petticoat replaces the blue
drawers--round their waist is a belt of great weight, about three inches wide, and of the thickest
leather, set with cornelians and other coarse stones, mounted in brass. The red cap is usual,
and the hair is often prettily braided. I have seen some head-dresses composed of silver coins.
None of the people seem to be in the habit of bathing or washing, and they do not remove their
garments at night. The children have often nothing but a shirt. As a nation they are healthy
and robust, though fevers occur at certain times in some districts. Among the men two casts
of features are general; the one, known among us as the "Jack Sheppard face"--the lower parts
rather prominent, and the nose short and somewhat turned up, the complexion and hair very dark.
The other is very different, a bright colour and high handsome features; yet nearly every person
one meets belongs to one of these two varieties. The latter is commonest among the tallest
men. They have all very good teeth, and their expression is intelligent and good-humoured.
As in feature, so in stature, considerable uniformity appears. Their height averages about
five feet ten, with great development of muscle. The women are relatively inferior in looks--they
are broad and short, seeming to possess great strength; but the labour they undergo, and the
burdens they carry, appear inimical to beauty. They have often pleasant countenances and good
brick-dust complexions. The Servian or Naski here spoken is considered among the purest dialects
of Sclavonic--it has a very pleasing sound, being softer and more melodious than the Russian.
My stay was unfortunately not long enough to obtain much knowledge of it, and this want will
sufficiently account for any errors that may appear in my descriptions of what I did not personally
witness; for it prevented that free intercourse with the people, by which a true insight to
their manners can alone be acquired. Their laws seem very simple; he who kills is killed--shooting
being the mode of execution. He who robs must make good; and, as few of the people are in abject
poverty, this is usually done. Should they fail, a summary flogging is inflicted. At Cettigna
is a small prison; I believe there is no other. When any one is there confined, he trusts entirely
to his friends for subsistence. They are good-humoured, obliging, and extremely loquacious;
but their continued spitting is very disagreeable. I witnessed no games or diversions among
them except the one-stringed fiddle; but I understood that they have a few athletic sports,
such as wrestling and putting the stone. They often go to sea. I encountered two among the
crew of an Austrian packet. They all profess the Greek faith, and are in their way very religious.
When passing a church they bow and cross themselves, and perform all sorts of pious movements,
which sometimes border on the ludicrous. Before going to sleep they make long prayers. Previous
to visiting the Vladika, an armed Montenegrian entered in the morning the house where we slept,
and casting aside his gun and cloak, commenced reading mass to the assembled party. This was
the priest of the parish. The older members of the community are not usually very enlightened;
but through the schools established by the Vladika, where instruction is dispensed gratuitously,
most of the rising generation can read and write their native language, and a sufficiency of
neatly printed books are issued from the press he keeps employed at Cettigna. No social distinctions
are yet known among them, and the most perfect equality prevails--even the sons address their
father by his Christian name. The only exception is in the person of the Vladika--his lot on
the whole is not an enviable one. The only educated mind among the many--the only polished
gentleman among simple peasants; he is indeed an isolated being. Handsome and in the prime
of life, yet there must be none to cheer his lot, or lighten his solitude, nor any to whom
he would love to transmit his mountain throne. In this respect the laws of his order are stringent,
and the breath of scandal has never yet sullied his fair name, though it is quite true that
whilst in his native land the temptations are not very severe. I should not be surprised if
a report I heard current should prove true, that he intended, at no very distant period, to
relinquish the government of Montenegro, and spend the remainder of his days among a people
more congenial to the habits of a man of education. Were he an absolute potentate, an extended
field for benefiting his countrymen might be obtained; but with his more constitutional power,
the attempts he has been able to make have been constantly thwarted by prejudice and ignorance.
Had he the privileges or the ties of an ordinary man, then, as we all know, the barrener the
rocks, the dearer seems the love of the native land; but, situated as he is, he can hardly
be accused of want of patriotism if his stay in Montenegro should not extend beyond the time
required in saving sufficient of his income to quit it.

Our voyage from Cattaro to Corfu was accomplished in a small trabacolo--the San Marco of Spalatro--having
on board three men and a boy. These boats, though not fast, are very safe, and the Dalmatians
in general manage small craft well. The north wind is scarce at this time of the year, but
a beautiful tramontana blew during the time we were working out of the Bocca. This we lost
entirely, and not a breath moved its calm waters. We had also to wait some hours at Port Rosa,
situated at the entrance of the Bocca, for our papers. By the time we were out at sea, the
wind had nearly died away, and the next day found us employed gathering wild pomegranates on
the desolate shores near Antiversi, in Albania. Again a beautiful tramontana sprang up, and
in a vessel of first-rate sailing powers, would almost have brought us in. All day we went
gallantly along. The heads of Ducazzo--Dyrrichium of old--began to appear, and soon we passed
it in a foam. All night we held on, and in the morning were beside the "infames scopulos Acroceraunia,"
and in sight of the island of Sassina, near the harbour of Avlona. On we went still, till at
length there appeared the land of the Phoeacians, "like a shield upon the sea;" but there was
a cloud over it which portended ill. It advanced towards us, and extended rapidly. It was soon
evident to the most sanguine that the wind was changing, and there was shortly no mistake about
the matter. I implored our skipper to keep on, though he tacked to the coast of Apulia; but
he knew his trade too well--the trade of a trabacolo consisting in never losing sight of shore.
So we were obliged to put in to Avlona harbour, deeply lamenting. Two days were spent here,
not daring to land for fear of putting ourselves in quarantine. Above the town rises the fortress
of Canina, but all wears a ruined appearance. The people of the neighbourhood, called Chimariots,
have the worst reputation of all the Albanians. The coast of Albania between this and Corfu
has a very barren and inhospitable appearance. The snowy peaks of the Pindus rise directly
from the sea. A few bushes were visible on the mountains, but timber of any size is scarce.
Villages and houses are seldom seen. A glad contrast was presented when, on the tenth day of
our voyage, we approached the beautiful shores of Corfu; and it was no small comfort, after
so long an imprisonment in this little tub, with holes to creep in about the size of a dog-kennel,
and in the roughest possible weather, to find ourselves in one of the most comfortable hotels
in Europe, and surrounded by old friends.

Since my visit to Montenegro, the Vladika went to Vienna--I believe to gain the mediation of
Austria concerning the disputed territory of Lessandro. After his return I understand he was
visited by Lord Clarence Paget, commanding her Majesty's frigate L'Aigle, who had been sent
to gain some information regarding his territory; so that, perhaps, a more accurate account
may be obtained than what is to be found in these rough notes.

ÆSTHETICS OF DRESS.

A CASE OF HATS.

Of all the follies that can be fairly placed to the charge of the human race--and, Heaven knows,
they are thick as gnats in a summer sunbeam--none can be laid at more people's doors than the
fickleness and vagaries of the judgment in adorning, to say nothing of covering, man's outer
scaffolding--the body. And the worst of it is, that this folly-cap fits all men, from the Red
Indian of America to the sallow-faced, eye-slitted Chinese; and through all the robed pomp
of the solemn Turk to the chattering and capering monkeyism of the Parisian exquisite--there
are fops every where. As Mr Catlin will tell you, one of his lanky Ojibbeway, or Ioway, or
Cutaway, or Anyotherkindo'way Indians varies the feathers in his head-dress, and sticks new
tinsel on his buffalo-mantle, whenever he can get them; spending as much time in be-painting
his cheeks on a summer morning, as Beau Brummell, of departed memory, ever wasted in tying
his cravat. And so it has ever been--so it will ever be; man is not only a two-legged unfledged
animal, but he is also a vain imitative ape, fond of his own dear visage, blind to his deformities,
and ever desirous of setting himself off to the best advantage. It is of no use quarrelling
with ourselves for this physiological fact--for we presume it to be one of the best ascertained
phenomena connected with the genus homo--it is better to take it as we find it; and if we cannot
hope to cure man of the absurdity any time this side of the millennium, let us try if we cannot
turn the failing to some account, and make it useful as well as ornamental.

The chief quarrel to be picked with man for his dressing propensities, is on the ground that
he not only hides and disfigures the fair proportions bestowed on him by his Maker, but that
he ever and anon loads himself with such masses of useless incongruities, that the very end
and object of his care are stultified. Instead of making himself smart, pretty, becoming, beautiful--or
any other word that you can find in the dandy's dictionary--he frequently succeeds in making
himself positively ugly--frightful, in the pure abstract sense of the term--or detestable,
in the lingo of the Stultzean tribe--and relapses, as a Frenchman would say, from civism to
brutism: Ah! quel animal que l'homme!

But let it not be supposed that we speak of man only, as applied to that great branch of the
species designated by the most experienced naturalists as homo vir; it is quite as true of
the other moiety, the homo femina. If it be possible that a woman should ever be made frightful
by any thing except age, then it is surely by dress; if a woman never does a foolish thing
in any other way, yet at least she errs in her habiliments; if she be fickle at all, (and speak
to the fact, ye disappointed bachelors and ye complaisant husbands!) in what is she more fickle
than in dress? We might waste a life in finding a suitable simile for her volatility in this
matter: rainbows with changing colours, water on a windy day, the wind itself in the month
of March, the much-desiderated perpetual motion; all are feeble similes to describe a woman's
fickleness in dress. Shall we liken it to her tongue's untiring play? or shall we not rather
say that it is a psychological fact standing per se? the concomitant effect and consequence
of her beauty? But, dear creatures! we are not going to quarrel with them for what gives us
so much unconscious pleasure, (we do not mean milliners' bills, gentle reader;) we glory in
living under a petticoat government, and in essentially petticoatian times. All we shall do
is to give a word of advice; and in trying on their caps for them, we will show them the rationale
of their bows and their lace, if they will only have the patience to sit still for the experiment.

Before embarking on such an important project, allow us to say that we are not going to quiz
old Whang-Fong for his pig-tail and peacock feathers, nor his Cannibalean majesty for his obstinate
refusal to wear a decent pair of inexpressibles; it is a stiff subject to meddle with the dressing
propensities of people that live "in many a place that's underneath the world." For all we
care, Abd el Kader and his Arabs may stifle themselves up in their greasy blankets swarming
with ancestral vermin under a nearly tropical sun; and the good people of Igloolik may bedeck
themselves with the spoils of fish, flesh, and fowl, to set the fashions of the Arctic circle.
We are going to speak merely of our home acquaintances and our European friends; if these only
would be reasonable in their dress, what a new thing it would be in the world--quel progrés!
quel évènement!

The fundamental rule of dress we take to be the following--utility in all cases, ornament when
practicable. The first should ever precede, and serve as the basis to the second; and it is
the inversion of their due positions that causes so many applications of the utile and the
dulce to end in sheer absurdity. The usefulness of any article or system of dress depends entirely
upon climate, modified of course by the occupation or pursuits of the wearer; the beauty of
it or the suitableness of the ornament to the character of the vestment. We defy all the editors
of the Recueils des Modes, Petits Courriers des Dames, Belles Assemblées, &c., with even the
poet-laureates of Moses and Son, Hyam and Co., with the whole host of Israelitish schneiders,
to find out a better æsthetic definition of the law of dress than this. Who would have the
effrontery to maintain that an Englishman, the very type of the useful at Calcutta in his cotton
jacket and nankeens, would in the same habiliments be a suitably dressed man at St Petersburg?
and however much a well-set ring may ornament an aristocratic finger, (though aristocratic
fingers, like aristocratic hands, as Byron observes, need no ornament to tell their origin,)
who but an Otaheitan would admire the application of them to the gouty toes of some "fine old
English gentleman?" Usefulness first, then, and ornament afterwards; think first of what you
actually want for your health or comfort; cut your coat upon that pattern, clap on your lace
afterwards; but enrich it only to improve its appearance, not to interfere with, to conceal,
or to alter its original destination.

To begin, however, methodically, let us take what are commonly understood by well-dressed English
people of the present day, and let us criticise them from top to toe. And first, then, of a
gentleman's head--le chef, as the French call it--and the chapeau, its present gear. What a
covering! what a termination to the capital of that pillar of the creation, Man! what an ungraceful,
mis-shapen, useless, and uncomfortable appendage to the seat of reason--the brain-box! Does
it protect the head from either heat, cold, or wet? Does it set off any of natural beauty of
the human cranium? Are its lines in harmony with, or in becoming contrast to, the expressive
features of the face? Is it comfortable, portable, durable, or cheap? What qualities, either
of use or ornament, has it in its favour that it should be the crowning point of a well-dressed
man's toilet? The hat is, beyond all doubt, one of the strangest vestimental anomalies of the
nineteenth century.

The history of the hat is this:--The simplest covering for a man's head after his own unshorn
locks--(do not remind us of the matted and living locks of the Indians or Hottentots)--must
have been something like the Greek skull-cap. This we hold to have been the root, or nucleus,
of the hat; and yet even this cap had a fault in point of utility, for it failed to shadow
the eyes: and on the earliest Greek monuments we find a cap with a wide brim appended, or a
flattish straw-hat following close upon the Phrygian bonnet. A light flattish hat has its recommendation
in a warm country, but it will not do for the winds and storms of a northern clime; and hence
all the old Gauls, the northern nations, the Tartars, and the peasants of Europe, for many
a long century wore a modified cap--sometimes swelling out into ornamental proportions, at
others shrinking into the primitive simplicity of the Phrygian or Greek cap. Shall we confess
it, fastidious reader?--we strongly suspect the cap worn by that idle fellow Paris, when he
so impudently ogled the goddesses on Mount Ida, to have been very similar to the good old bonnet
de nuit of our grandfathers--(shall we whisper it, of ourselves?) Yes, that little cocked-up
corner at the top looks like a budding tassel; he never had such bad taste as to tie it with
a riband round his brows; and we do not read in Homer that Helen, though a capital workwoman,
ever gave him one; but we are inclined to believe that the old punty-dunty, pudding-bag-shaped
cap which is still worn by the French peasantry in their field occupations, and is still patronized
by a large portion of Queen Victoria's loving subjects, is of the highest antiquity, and based,
we have no doubt, on utility. We must be candid enough to say, that we give up the argument
as to the intrinsic beauty of this species of cap--truly we think it the very type of all that
is slovenly; but for use, there is not a more comfortable, portable, pliable, buyable, and
washable a commodity, than your--nightcap are we to say? no--than your bonnet Grec.

Hats, properly so called, whether of cloth or fur, were evidently the invention of some out-of-door
people; but then they were not the brimless pyramidal canisters of the present fashion, but
were either caps with dependent brims, or else broad and flexible Spanish sombreros. The very
idea of a hat is that of utility--something to keep off the sun and the rain--any thing will
do for warmth that will aid the hair in keeping in the natural caloric of a man's head; and
hence we much doubt whether the Irish, that hot-headed nation, ever wore hats in early times.
From the want of shade being early felt by civilized nations, more than shelter from rain,
and from hat-shapes being found on early southern monuments, we are inclined to think that
the hat was more extensively worn in Southern than in Northern Europe; more, as it is, in Southern
England than in Northern Scotland. Hence, although we find many iron skull-caps, like hats,
used by the military in the fifteenth century; and although we find traces of hats even in
the plebeian costumes of the middle ages--yet we look upon the Spanish and Italian hat of the
sixteenth century, as the more immediate origin of its degenerate successor, the actual chapeau.
We need not trace the variations of its form through the seventeenth century, from the high-crowned
things of Henry III. of France, and James I. of England, to the graceful beavers of Louis XIII.,
Philip III., and Charles I. of England; the change was all in favour of the beaver; and certainly
the hat reached its culminating point of excellence during the reign of our martyr king. Who
has studied the splendid portraits of Vandyke, or the heads of Rubens, and has not perceived
the uncommon grace given to them by the well-proportioned and not excessive hat? Who does not
remember the fine portrait of Rubens himself, with his black Spanish hat turned up in front,
the very perfection of that style of head-dress? Put a modern hat by the side of this hat of
Rubens, and say which bears off the palm; there can hardly be two opinions upon the subject.
The great change of this hat took place, as is well known, in Louis XIV.'s court, where first
of all feathers were laid all round upon the flat of the brim, and next the brim was edged
with lace, and pinched or cocked up, for greater use in military service. It might have been
useful for a military man, especially one who had to handle a bayoneted musket; but it was
a fatal invasion of the principle of beauty to adopt a permanent cock. There is no doubt that
the flat cocked hat, the small three-cornered pinched hat of the days of Louis XIV. and Louis
XV., gave much smartness to the soldier, and much neatness to the civilian; the change, too,
corresponded with other alterations of dress, from the loose and flowing, to the tight and
succinct principle; but picturesque effect was entirely lost; all the sentimentality, all the
romance of the hat, evaporated in the formal cock. But this small flat hat of the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries, was perfection and beauty itself, compared with the outrageous and
elevated cocked hat which came into fashion sometime before 1750, and which is the immediate
prototype of the present military cocked hat. Here the principle of utility was entirely abandoned;
it was sacrificed to the display of an unnatural brim. The hat was no longer formed by the
pinching up of a circular brim of moderate dimensions; but three enormous flaps were made to
rear their unwieldy height in the air, and were strengthened, stiffened, and supported, against
the envious winds, to the torment of the wearer, and to the disfigurement of his person. All
through the first half of the tasteless reign of good old George III., did this horrible covering
disguise the beau's head; and the effect of it may still be judged of by his grandchildren,
when they contemplate, not without awe, the rubicund figure of some metropolitan church-beadle
with his large-caped coat, silver-headed cane, and monstrous three-cornered hat. Our modern
great ladies, strange to say, seem to have an especial affection for this hat, since they take
particular care to have a couple of footmen behind their carriage glorying in this capital
atrocity, while on the coach-box they encourage the older form of the flat cocked hat of Louis XV.

All cocked hats, be it observed, are glorious rain-traps; the only improvement they are capable
of is one not yet patented, namely, the appending of neat flexible spouts, say of Macintosh
cloth, from each corner, so as to convey the water in pleasant meanderings over the back and
coat-tails. In dry weather these spouts might be tied up, and would form graceful curves either
before, behind, or on one side of the cocked flaps, while in a shower they would add dignity
to utility, as they hung all adown the back of the wearer. One kind of utility, however, the
old cocked hat certainly had; it served in some degree, maugre the looping up of the brim,
to shelter the face from the sun; not indeed when worn full front, as it was in Dr Johnson's
time, and as we remember the household troops used to wear it--but when, by a daring innovation
of revolutionary times, it came to be turned round on its human pivot, and lay gently athwart
the line of vision. Thus it is that our generals wear it in this nineteenth century; thus it
was that the Great Duke got all through Spain with it; though Napoleon, who greatly reduced
its dimensions, always kept to the orthodox full-front; and in all positions, except the latter,
it certainly does shade some portion of the face from the sun. But while, for example, the
projection of one peak shades the nose, the ears and cheeks are left to fish for themselves;
or else, if the hat wheels round again to the front, the ears come under its benignant shade,
but the tip of the proboscis suffers awfully. The cocked hat has always been a two-horned dilemna
ever since the third peak moved up in the world from its original position of horizontal equality,
and aspired to be a near neighbour of the cockade or towering plume.

It was that wicked revolution of France, or rather that dissolute time preceding it, which
produced the most mischief in the hat line. Look at any of the pictures of that day--look at
the portraits of the Conventionalists--look at the old prints of country gentlemen hunting
or riding races at Newmarket--remember the Sir Joshuas in many a noble gallery; and you will
not fail to remark that the choice spirits of the day, the go-ahead lads of that time, had
let down the flaps of their cocked hats into slouching, and we must say, most slovenly circular
brims. There was a sort of free-and-easy look affected in that day about the head, totally
at enmity with the prim rigidity of the cocked beaver; you might have taken off your chapeau
rond, as it then came to be called, and you might have sat on it--it would have been never
the worse; but not so with its stiff old father--no liberties were to be taken with him; once
sit upon him, and you would have crushed him forever. This very difference of hats marked a
difference of politics--at least in France. There the old chapeau à trois cornes was the badge
of the aristocracy: the chapeau rond and the bonnet rouge were sworn brothers in the cause
of democracy. The times were getting unhinged; all fashions were relaxing; so were public morals;
so were private morals; so were men's hats: hats and heads seemed to have a sympathy, and to
have gone wrong together.

And what has been the history of the hat since that day?--the civilian's hat we mean. Who remembers
the overlapping crowns which came into fashion soon after the great peace, at a time when Frenchmen
wore their brims extravagantly pinched up at the sides, and deeply pulled down fore and aft?
Sometimes the hat rose up in pyramidal majesty; sometimes it was shut in like a telescope wanting
to be pulled out. And then every kind of fancy man had a fancy hat: there was the Neck-or-nothing
hat, the Bang-up, the Corinthian, the Jerry, and the Logic; or else distinguished leaders of
ton lent their names to it, and we had the Petershams, the Barringtons, &c. Through every degree
of absurdity has the chapeau rond passed, until it seems to have settled down into that quiescent
state of mediocrity which marks the decline of empires and of hats. The brim is no longer only
half an inch broad as it was once, nor four inches broad as we also remember it: it seems to
vary between the limits of one inch and two--a breadth just sufficient to let the line of shade,
when the head is erect, come upon the eye-lids, and just sufficient to clear the ears. But
if the head be moved ever so little, or if the rain come down ever so slantingly, the services
of the hat are at an end: it is well enough to intercept any thing coming down perpendicularly,
but "slantendicularly," as friend Slick says--no. Its present height is just enough to prevent
your wearing it in a carriage, and such, too, as to give a moderate wind a good purchase upon
it: the substance is such that the least exposure to wet ruins it, whether of beaver or silk;
a moderate blow will crack or break its form; and for the first week, if you have any thing
like a sensitive head, or any bosses of unknown qualities protruding from your cranium, you
are doomed to incessant headache from hat-pinchings. It has no properties of usefulness to
recommend it, and none of ornament, saving this--if it can be called such--the being an invaluable
appendage for a little man to make himself appear tall. What a wide interval from the simplicity
of its Phrygian original!

Having, therefore, criticized our present head-gear, and condemned our hats, without pulling
them to pieces, let us enquire what a proper covering for the head should be: first of all
in point of usefulness, and next in point of comely appearance. But let no man vainly imagine
that we expect to suit the fancies of all the creatures privileged to wear hats, or even to
cover their heads; we do not pretend to invent, or decide upon, any one given type or form
of head-dress. So many are the wants of a man in covering his head, so widely differing from
each other are the exigencies of different people, that uniformity in hats is to be given up
as a bad job: to attempt it would foil the strength of a Hercules: the utmost we can hope to
effect is to lay down certain limits for the variations of this apex of human pride.

For us, then, who live in a climate rainy, windy, hot, and cold, all within any twenty-four
hours of the year, just as the case may be, it is plain that we want for general use something
that will be proof against the atmospherical accidents that may befall any man who goes abroad
to take the air. And here let it be observed, that in reasoning about hats, all thoughts about
that effeminate invention, the umbrella, are to be laid aside. This utensil is truly a disgrace
to the manhood of the times; and its existence, by allowing people to dispense with warm cloaks
and other anti-rain appliances, has caused more disease, in letting them catch cold, than any
thing else we know of. Our stalwart ancestors did admirably well without umbrellas; they wore
good cloaks or coats, and broad beavers to keep the rain out of their necks, faring not a jot
the worse for it. Umbrellas are only fit for men-milliners, Cockney travellers, and women.
The nature of a hat, we flatter ourselves, is something independent of cotton and whalebone;
and instead of the umbrella claiming precedence over the hat, the hat, we take it, should be
above the umbrella. An Englishman's hat, then, should be something that will keep the rain
off his face and neck when the weather is bad, and shield his eyes from the glare of the sun
on the few days when sunlight is oppressive--and these two requirements settle at once, on
all principles of common sense, that a man, if he has only one kind of covering for the head,
should have a hat with a broad brim. This is the very foundation of the definition of an useful
hat, providing that a hat is really to be the thing worn for protecting a man's upper story.
Usefulness will also decide against height in the crown. Cui bono this same high crown of ours,
that looks more like a watering-pot deprived of its spout and handle than a reasonable article
of human apparel? Down with the crowns, say we! If you will wear a hat, down with your crown.
You may put down your half-sovereign or sovereign, or whatever you please, for your new hat
first of all, but down with your crown too. Here, gentle reader, you will exclaim against our
taste, and will protest that we would sacrifice every thing to that horrid utilitarian principle,
which opposes all ideas of beauty and poetry. We are free to confess that, in our opinion,
there is not much poetry to be made about such a subject--unless some obsolete verses, "All
round my hat," may be alleged to the contrary; but as for the beauty of the head-piece, we
protest that we admit its existence, and think that it should be consulted by whomsoever would
pay proper attention to his own outward appearance. The merely useful may possibly make the
shape approximate to that of a Quaker's or a jarvey's, but the beautiful has to elevate and
modify it into the mystical proportions fit for a man of taste. One other quality, however,
which is intimately connected with the useful, has to be noticed. The substance should not
be hard and unyielding. Witness, ye reminiscences--ye painful images of bygone headachs, even
yet flitting through our brain like Titanic thunderbolts!--accursed be the memory of that fellow
Tightfit in Old Bond Street, who used to screw his hats on our cranium when we were young,
and ere London had awakened us! As you value your comfort, dear reader, never purchase a hard
hat. A hard heart may be borne with, but a hard hat--never! And last of all, a hat should be
light--yes, the lighter the better--light as a gossamer web, though 'tis a simile that will
not bear stretching. You may have the misfortune to be a heavy-headed man, but do not add to
it that of being heavy-hatted. Avoid the extremity of suffering; and observe the climax of
ill from which we would shield your head--a narrow-brimmed, hard, heavy, high-crowned hat--

  "tode gar brotois megiston êlthet' ek theôn kakon."

The covering of the head, then, must have its usefulness made ornamental, if not beautiful;
and the due ornamentation of it will depend principally upon its form, but also upon its colour
and material. Now, form is the principal thing; every one that has half an eye for art will
tell you this--'tis an admitted axiom. Either, then, the shape of the covering should conform
to that of the head, or it should not, and we take our ground in support of the latter position.
The natural form of the head is determined by the rotundity of the cranium, beautifully modified
by the waving curls of the hair--we speak of the abstract well-formed head; and nothing that
approaches to the same shape will ever do more than give a bad substitute for the outline of
the head as nature framed it. Any covering conceals the hair; and if you remove from sight
this intrinsically beautiful integument, it is a principle of bad taste to put in its place
only a poor copy of the same contour. If you cover the head, cover it with something that forms
lines not curving like the skull, nor yet so angular as to create too striking an opposition
of ideas in the mind of the beholder. A close-fitting untasseled skull-cap does not improve
the form of the head, for it is not half so graceful as the hair; but a square hat or pyramidal
cap is truly detestable. This is the reason why the common nightcap is ugly; it fits the head
too closely, and its upper end conveys the ludicrous idea of something made to be pulled at.
On the other hand, the double nightcap, pulled out and allowed to hang down on one shoulder,
Spanish fashion, is less ugly--though far removed from our own ideas of beauty--because it
introduces a new system of curves, and acts as a kind of dependent drapery to compensate for
the concealment of the hair. Here is also the reason why the common hat is so frightful; it
gives us straight or nearly straight lines, going upwards like tangents from the oval of the
face, and cut off above by another straight line (the section of the crown) at right angles:
all such lines and angles are foreign to the face and head. The common nightcap is too familiar,
the common hat too stiff. Observe the lines of the face and head; the projection of the nose,
the rounded angularity of the chin; the vertical section of the head affording curves with
decided yet harmonious irregularities; the horizontal section producing a nearly regular contour.
Well, it is upon principles of this kind that the covering of the head should be beautified.
Now, we profess ourselves unable to make any better reconciliation of the useful with the beautiful
for this purpose, than in the small, flexible, light, and broad-brimmed hat, which is still
to be found in some Spanish and Italian pictures; a hat not quite so large as that worn in
the reign of Charles I., yet with all its freedom and capability of assuming a variety of graceful
forms; not so stiff as the beaux of the Spanish court, and the rakes of our own merry monarch's
palace made it; not so formal as we know James I. and Lord Bacon used to wear; but something
between all these three types. The prevalence of straight lines in it should be avoided without
its appearing slovenly, and its dimensions should be such as to consult convenience without
relapsing into a homely vulgarity. Such a kind of hat admits of any further ornament which
the fancy of the wearer may induce him to add; a feather, a band, a buckle, or even a plain
button for occasionally looping up the brim on one side or other, (not two sides, for it would
return to the old cocked hat,)--any of these extraneous additions would harmonize, and would
be in due character with its shape. Such a hat would certainly be useful; and that it would
be ornamental we have only to decide by consulting our eyes, and by looking at our ancestors'
portraits of the seventeenth century.

But there is another kind of covering for the head, which, for its peculiar purposes, seems
to us more useful and more ornamental even than this hat; we allude to the common round travelling
cap, the officers' undress cap in the British army. Are you going a journey? have you any rough
work to do? have you got a headach and want something light? would you put on something that
will not spoil by being pulled about, sat on, slept on, and stood on? something handy, useful,
comfortable, and withal good-looking?--What do you do? you get a foraging cap. Every man looks
well in a foraging cap; it harmonizes with every body's face: it makes the old look young,
and the young look smart: it is, without pretence, plain in detail, and yet elegant in outline:
it has no straight lines in it, and yet its curves are in contrast with those of the head;
they run in opposite directions: and the shade of the cap, if it has one, emulates the decisiveness
of the nose, and gives character to the profile of the head, just as the nose gives point and
force to the face. Nothing so easily admits of suitable ornament: a plain band--a golden one--or
even a coloured one--makes it suitable to the various ranks and occupations of men: while its
material, admitting of infinite variety, according to the taste of the wearer, never injures
the source of its beauty its form. The cap fails in only one thing; it is unfit for rainy weather;
it will only do for dry days. Do not attempt to put a flap behind it, and tie it under your
chin--you at once convert it into an ugly nightcap; its curves then imitate those of the head,
and the ridiculous takes the place of the becoming. For three hundred days, however, out of
the three hundred and sixty-five, such a cap may be worn with the greatest comfort and advantage:
while, for simplicity and elegance, it has no rival. We exclude most vigorously all other kinds
of caps; we admit nothing but the common round foraging cap, with a small shade over the eyes;
we especially set our faces against the little quirked Highland cap, now revived, and becoming
popular among the southrons. This cap has part of its curves--those behind the head approximating
too closely to the curve of the skull: in fact, at the hinder part it is a skull-cap; whereas,
the other part of the curves in front are too much in opposition to the outline of the face:
they bend over and form an unpleasant contrast with the nose and chin: they are deficient in
the shade or visor, and there is not one man in a thousand whose face they suit. All fancy-caps
with whalebone, falling tops, angular projections, &c., are utterly abominate; we pin our faith
to the quiet, unsophisticated, gentlemanlike cap worn by our officers: it beats almost any
other head-dress in the world.

The prevailing tendency of the age is to avoid distinctions of dress except in the value of
the material, and then only between the two great divisions of society--the affluent and the
poor. Hence all ornament seems to be a superfluity, except upon occasions of public display
or military service; and men will not now listen to any one who advises them to put feathers
and gold lace on their hats and caps: they would as soon think of returning to the embroidered
coats of their grandfathers. The principle is a good one: in the palmy days of Rome, the differences
of dress bore no proportion to the differences of station; distinction in dress was the failing
of the middle ages, a consequence of some lurking seeds of northern barbarism, which are only
now ceasing to be propagated. We seem, like the great men of the Eternal City eighteen hundred
years ago, to be looking more at the inward worth and influence of a man, than at his outward
state and dress; and it is a good sign of the times; it is a reasonable inclination of the
mind; but it confines the exercise of taste in dress. Men of the present day are determined
to be plain about the head as well as about the body; all ornament of head-dress they have
left to soldiers and to the fairer half of the creation:--sed hæc hactenus--we reserve our
remarks on the coiffures of these two classes for another occasion.

                                                       H. L. J.

THE THREE GUARDSMEN.

Guardsmen have at all periods been a racketing, rollicking set of fellows. Whether ancients
or moderns, infidels or Christians, prætorians or janissaries, the mousquetaires and Scottish
archers of the French Louises, or the lifeguards of "bonnie Dundee's" own regiment, they have
always claimed, and usually enjoyed, a greater degree of license than is accorded to the more
unpretending soldiery of the line. The first in the field, and the last out of it, they have
sometimes seemed to think that, by thrashing the king's enemies, they acquired a right to baton
his subjects, that captured cities atoned for the wrongs of deluded damsels, and that each
extra blow struck in the fight, entitled them to an extra bottle in the barrack-room. On duty,
discipline--off duty, dissipation--seems to have been the motto of these gentlemen; and if
it be the case, that they occasionally forgot the former part of their device, it, on the other
hand, is no where upon record, that they were oblivious of its latter portion. Fighting hard
and drinking hard, living hard and dying hard, the bravest men and most desperate debauchees
of all countries, have worn the uniform of guardsmen.

Our old friend, M. Alexandre Dumas, who, if we may believe one of his biographers, passes twelve
hours a-day in driving a goosequill for the entertainment and particular edification of his
countrymen, found himself, one fine morning, desperately at a loss for something to write about.
He is, perhaps, not the first writer of fiction who has been in a like predicament; and even
if he were, it would be neither wonderful nor unpardonable, seeing that his average rate of
production is about three volumes per month. There is a limit to all things, even to the imagination
of a French romance writer; and M. Dumas, without exception the most prolific of modern scribblers,
was for once hard up for a subject.

L'hôpital n'est pas pour les chiens, says the French proverb. It occurred to M. Dumas, that
the league or two of books in the Bibliothèque Royale were not placed there for the mere purpose
of astonishing provincials, or causing English tourists to stare and lift up their hands in
admiration; but that one of the objects of their preservation might well be, that they should
afford suggestions to any distinguished littérateur who happened to be, like himself, in want
of an idea. Emerging, therefore, from his comfortable abode in the Chaussée d'Antin, he turned
his steps in the direction of the royal library, and was soon up to his ears in dusty tomes
and jaundiced parchments. After much research, he discovered a folio manuscript, numbered,
as he tells us in his preface, 4772 or 4773, and purporting to be a memoir, by a certain Count
de la Fère, of events that occurred in France towards the latter part of the reign of Louis
the Thirteenth. Upon perusal, he found this MS. so interesting, that he applied for, and obtained
permission to publish it; and the memoir in question saw the light under the title of Les Trois
Mousquetaires.

The piquant and interesting matter contained in this book, caused it to be much read, and numerous
persons were curious to see the original manuscript. To their infinite surprise, however, they
could obtain no account whatever of such a document; and what was still more provoking, the
librarians seemed to look upon them as insane when they asked for it. There was much running
up and down the library stairs, much mounting upon step-ladders, and tumbling of paper and
parchment, much grumbling of puzzled librarians and disappointed applicants, until at last,
the most obstinate became convinced that the aforesaid MS. had no existence save in the imagination
of M. Dumas, who had, as it is vulgarly styled, "taken a rise" out of the public.

In the spring of the year 1625, a young Gascon gentleman named D'Artagnan, left his home to
seek fortune at Paris. He was mounted on an ill-looking cob, some fourteen years of age--that
is to say, within four years as old as its rider; the sword which his father buckled on him
at parting, was more remarkable for its length than its elegance; his purse contained fifteen
crowns, and his valise a couple of shirts. To compensate for this meagre equipment, he rode
like a Tartar, and fenced like a St George; and was moreover possessed of three qualifications
invaluable to a man who has his way to make in the world--a clear head, a light heart, and
a courage that nothing could daunt. One thing more he had; a letter of recommendation from
his father to Monsieur de Treville, captain of the mousquetaires, or body-guards, of his Majesty
Louis the Thirteenth.

Nearly the last words of the worthy old Gascon, who was compelled by his poverty to send his
son forth into the world thus slenderly provided, were an injunction to honour the King and
Cardinal Richelieu, then in the zenith of his power, and to fight as often as he could get
an opportunity. With such counsels yet ringing in his ears, it is not surprising, that before
reaching Paris young D'Artagnan gets into a very pretty quarrel against overpowering odds,
is somewhat maltreated, and, while senseless from the blows he has received, has his letter
stolen from him by an emissary of the Cardinal, among whose political enemies M. de Treville
stands in the foremost rank. The young adventurer, however, consoles himself for his loss,
shakes his feathers, and arrives at Paris without further accident. Before entering the capital
he disposes of his horse, of whose uncouth appearance he is heartily ashamed; and after improving
his toilet as well as his scanty wardrobe will allow, he proceeds to the hotel of Monsieur
de Treville, where he falls in with the three mousquetaires who give a title to the book, in
which, however, D'Artagnan plays the most conspicuous and important part. He finds the hotel
Treville throned with applicants for an audience, petitioners, mousquetaires, and lackeys bearing
letters from persons of the first importance. He sends in his name, and after some delay, is
admitted. Here is M. Dumas' account of the interview.

    "Monsieur de Treville was that day in a particularly bad humour;
    nevertheless he returned D'Artagnan's profound bow with a polite
    inclination of the head, and smiled at the strong Gascon accent in
    which the young man uttered his compliments. The sound recalled to
    his mind his own youth and his native country, two things of which
    the recollection is apt to make most men smile. He then waved his
    hand to D'Artagnan, as if requesting him to have a moment's
    patience, and approaching the door leading to the anteroom, he
    called out in an imperious and angry tone--

    "'Athos! Porthos! Aramis!'

    "Two mousquetaires, who had already attracted D'Artagnan's
    attention, left the groups of which they formed a part, and
    entered the audience chamber, of which the door was immediately
    closed behind them.

    "There was a remarkable contrast in the appearance of these two
    guardsmen. One was a man of gigantic stature, loud-voiced, and of
    stern and haughty countenance; the other, on the contrary, was of
    gentle and naïve physiognomy, with smooth rosy cheeks, a soft
    expression in his black eye, a delicate mustache on his upper lip,
    white hands, and a voice and smile remarkable for their mildness.
    The bearing of these two gentlemen upon entering the presence of
    their captain, showed a happy mixture of submission and dignity,
    which excited the admiration of D'Artagnan, who was already
    disposed to look upon the mousquetaires as demigods, and upon
    their chief as an Olympic Jupiter, armed with all his thunders.

    "Monsieur de Treville took two or three turns up and down the
    apartment, silent, and with a contracted brow, passing each time
    before Porthos and Aramis, who remained mute and immoveable as if
    upon the parade ground. Suddenly he stopped, and measured them
    from head to foot with an angry glance.

    "'Do you know what the King told me, gentlemen, and that no longer
    ago than yesternight? Do you know, I say, what his Majesty told
    me?'

    "'No,' replied the two guardsmen after a moment's silence. 'No,
    sir, we do not know it.'

    "'But I hope you will do us the honour to inform us,' said Aramis
    in his most polite tone, and with his most graceful bow.

    "'He told me that henceforward he would recruit his mousquetaires
    from among the guards of Monsieur le Cardinal.'

    "'Among the guards of Monsieur le Cardinal! And why so?' demanded
    Porthos abruptly.

    "'Because he finds that his own sour wine requires to be improved
    by the admixture of some more generous liquor.'

    "The two guardsmen coloured up to the eyes. D'Artagnan felt
    uncertain whether he was standing on his head or his heels.

    "'Yes,' continued Monsieur de Treville with increased vivacity,
    'and his Majesty is right; for, by my honour, the mousquetaires
    cut a sorry figure at the court! Monsieur le Cardinal was relating
    yesterday at the King's card-table, in a tone of condolence that
    displeased me no little, how those infernal mousquetaires, those
    sabreurs as he ironically called them, had forgotten themselves
    over their bottle at a tavern in the Rue Ferou, and how a patrol
    of his guards had found it necessary to arrest them. I thought he
    was going to laugh in my face as he said the words, looking at me
    all the time with his tiger-cat eyes. Morbleu! you ought to know
    something about it. You were amongst them; the cardinal named you.
    Mousquetaires, indeed, who allow themselves to be arrested! But it
    is my fault for not choosing my men better. What the devil
    possessed you, Aramis, to ask me for a guardsman's uniform, when a
    priest's surplice would have fitted you better? And you, Porthos,
    what is the use of your wearing that magnificent embroidered
    sword-belt, if the weapon it supports is of such small service to
    you? And Athos, I do not see Athos. Where is he?'

    "'Sir,' replied Aramis gravely, 'he is ill--very ill.'

    "'Ill, say you? And of what disease?'

    "'It is feared that it is the small-pox, sir,' replied Porthos,
    who was desirous of putting in a word. 'It would be a great pity,
    for it would assuredly spoil his appearance.'

    "'The small-pox! A fine story indeed! The small-pox at his age!
    Not so! But wounded, I suppose--killed perhaps. Sangdieu!
    Messieurs les Mousquetaires, I insist upon your ceasing to
    frequent taverns and places of bad repute. I will have no more
    brawling and sword-playing in the public streets. I will not have
    my regiment made a laughing-stock to the Cardinal's guards, who
    are brave fellows, prudent and quiet--who do not get themselves
    into trouble, and if they did, would not allow themselves to be
    arrested. Not they! They would sooner die upon the spot than
    recede an inch. It is only the King's mousquetaires who run away
    or are taken prisoners.'

    "Porthos and Aramis trembled with rage. They would willingly have
    strangled their chief, if they had not felt that it was the great
    affection he bore them that induced him to speak thus harshly.
    They bit their lips till the blood came, and clutched the hilts of
    their swords in silent fury. Several of the guardsmen in the
    anteroom, who had heard Monsieur de Treville's summons to Athos,
    Porthos, and Aramis, and suspected what was going on, had applied
    their ears to the tapestry, and lost not a word of their captain's
    reproaches, which they repeated to those around them, who in their
    turn repeated them to their comrades on the staircase and in the
    courtyard. In an instant, from the anteroom to the street, all was
    commotion.

    "'Ha! his Majesty's mousquetaires allow themselves to be arrested
    by the Cardinal's guards!' continued Monsieur de Treville, who was
    as furious as his soldiers. 'Aha! sirs, six of his Eminence's
    guards arrest six of the King's! Morbleu! I have made up my mind
    what to do. I will go at once to the Louvre, resign my post as
    captain of mousquetaires, and solicit a lieutenancy in the
    Cardinal's guards; and if I am refused, morbleu! I will turn
    priest!'

    "At these words the murmur outside the audience chamber became an
    explosion. On all sides oaths and blasphemies were resounding.
    D'Artagnan looked about for a place to hide himself. He felt a
    strong inclination to get under the table.

    "'Well, captain,' said Porthos, who was completely beside himself
    with rage and vexation, 'the truth is that we were six against
    six; but they attacked us treacherously; and before we could draw
    a sword, two of us were dead men, and Athos desperately wounded
    and equally useless. You know Athos, captain; well, twice he tried
    to get up, and twice he fell down again. Nevertheless, we did not
    yield ourselves prisoners; we were taken off by main force, and on
    the way to the guard-house we managed to break away from them. As
    to Athos, they thought him dead, and left him on the ground. That
    is the real truth of the matter. And what then, captain! One
    cannot win every battle. The great Pompey lost that of Pharsalia,
    and Francis I., who, from what I have heard, was no fool in the
    fighting way, got roughly handled at Pavia.'

    "'And I have the honour to assure you, sir,' said Aramis, 'that I
    killed one of the guards with his own sword, for mine was broken
    at the first onset.'

    "'I did not know that,' said Treville in a more gentle tone. 'I
    see that the Cardinal exaggerated matters.'

    "'But for heaven's sake, sir,' continued Aramis, encouraged by the
    softened manner of his commander, 'for heaven's sake, do not
    mention that Athos is wounded: he would be in despair if the King
    heard of it; and as the wound is very serious, having passed
    through the shoulder and entered the breast, it is to be
    feared....'

    "At this moment the tapestry that covered the door was raised, and
    the head of a man of noble aspect and handsome features, but
    fearfully pale, appeared below the fringe.

    "'Athos!' exclaimed the two guardsmen.

    "'Athos!' repeated Monsieur de Treville himself.

    "You asked for me, sir,' said Athos to Monsieur de Treville, in a
    calm but enfeebled voice--'my comrades told me that you asked for
    me, and I hastened to obey your summons.'

    "And so saying, the mousquetaire entered the room with a tolerably
    firm step, in full uniform and belted as usual. Monsieur de
    Treville, touched to the soul by this proof of courage, sprang to
    meet him.

    "'I was telling these gentlemen,' said he, 'that I forbid my
    mousquetaires to expose their lives without necessity; that brave
    men are very dear to the King, and his Majesty knows that his
    mousquetaires are the bravest men upon the face of the earth. Your
    hand, Athos!'

    "And without waiting for the new comer to hold out his right hand,
    Monsieur de Treville seized and pressed it energetically, not
    observing that Athos, in spite of his command over himself,
    writhed with pain, and grew each moment paler than before. The
    room-door had remained half open, and a loud murmur of
    satisfaction from without replied to the words addressed to Athos
    by Monsieur de Treville. The heads of two or three mousquetaires,
    who forgot themselves in the enthusiasm of the moment, appeared at
    the opening of the tapestry. Doubtless Monsieur de Treville was
    about to check sharply this infraction of the laws of etiquette,
    when he suddenly felt the hand of Athos contract in his, and
    looking at the guardsman, he saw that he was going to faint. At
    the same moment Athos, who had summoned all his energies to
    struggle against the sufferings he endured, was overcome by the
    torture of his wound, and fell senseless to the ground.

    "'A surgeon!' cried Monsieur de Treville. 'My surgeon--the
    King's--the best! A surgeon! or, sangdieu! my brave Athos will
    die!'"

The swoon of Athos had merely been occasioned by loss of blood. The surgeon declares there
is no danger, and D'Artagnan, who has stood his ground with true Gascon tenacity, at length
obtains an audience. The loss of his letter of recommendation now proves a great disadvantage
to him. In those days of court intrigue and espionage, men were naturally suspicious of each
other, and the mingled naïveté and shrewdness of the young Béarnais, are causes for Monsieur
de Treville at first suspecting him of being a spy of the Cardinal's. His suspicions, however,
are wearing off, and he is disposed to be useful to D'Artagnan, although he cannot admit him
into the mousquetaires--a noviciate of two years in some other regiment being the indispensable
condition of admission into that favoured corps--when D'Artagnan, happening to look out of
the window, starts, reddens with anger, and rushes to the door. He has recognised, in a passer-by,
the person who had stolen his letter; and leaves Monsieur de Treville in doubt whether he has
to do with a madman or with an emissary of the Cardinal's, who, fearing himself suspected,
takes this pretext for effecting a retreat.

In his hurry to leave the hotel and pursue his robber, D'Artagnan gets into all sorts of scrapes.
On the landing-place he runs against Athos, who is returning home after having his wound dressed.
Some hasty words pass, a challenge is the result, and rendezvous is taken for noon in a field
near the Carmelite convent, then a favourite duelling ground. In the gateway of the courtyard,
Porthos is talking with one of his comrades, and D'Artagnan, in trying to pass between them,
gets entangled in the velvet cloak of the former, and discovers, what the guardsman had been
most anxious to conceal, that the front only of his embroidered shoulder-belt was gold, and
the back mere leather. Porthos, not having sufficient pistoles to purchase a whole belt, had
gratified his vanity with half a one, and wore his cloak to conceal the deficiency. The young
Gascon finds himself with a second duel on his hands, and sets himself down as a dead man.
Meantime his robber has disappeared, and as D'Artagnan is proceeding in the direction of his
lodging, he encounters Aramis, standing in the middle of the street with some other gentlemen.
Furious with himself for the follies he has been committing, D'Artagnan has made a resolution
to be all things to all men, at least for the hour or two that he still has to live; and observing
that Aramis has dropped a handkerchief, and placed his foot upon it, he hastens to drag it
from under his boot, and present it to him with a most gracious bow and smile. A coronet and
cipher on the embroidered cambric attract notice, and draw down a shower of raillery upon the
head of the mousquetaire, who, in order to shield the honour of a lady, is compelled to deny
that the handkerchief is his. His companions walk away, and Aramis reproaches D'Artagnan with
his officiousness. The Gascon blood gets up, good resolutions are forgotten, and a third rendezvous
is the result.

M. Dumas is never more at home than in the description of duels. Himself an excellent swordsman,
he luxuriates and excels in the description of points and parries, cartes and tierces, and
of the vigorous estocades which his heroes administer to each other. One of the good chapters
of the book--and there are many such--is the one in which D'Artagnan encounters the three redoubtable
champions whom he has so heedlessly provoked. We will endeavour, by abridgement, to lay it
before our readers.

     "D'Artagnan knew nobody at Paris, and betook himself, therefore,
     to his first rendezvous without seconds, intending to content
     himself with those whom his adversary should bring. Moreover, his
     firm intention was to make all reasonable apologies to Athos,
     fearing that there would result from this duel the usual
     consequence of an encounter between a young and vigorous man and
     a wounded and feeble one--if the former is conquered, his
     antagonist's triumph is doubled; and if he conquers, he is
     accused of taking an advantage, or of being brave at small risk.
     Besides this, either we have been unsuccessful in the exposition
     of our young adventurer's character, or the reader will have
     already perceived that D'Artagnan was no ordinary man. Thus,
     although he repeated to himself that his death was inevitable, he
     by no means made up his mind to fall an easy sacrifice, as one
     less cool and courageous than himself might perhaps have done. He
     reflected on the different characters of the three men with whom
     he had to fight, and began to think that his case was not so
     desperate as it might have been. He hoped, by the candid and
     loyal apology which he intended to offer, to make himself a
     friend of Athos, whose austere mien and noble air pleased him
     greatly. He flattered himself that he should be able to
     intimidate Porthos by the affair of the shoulder-belt, which he
     could, if not killed upon the spot, relate to every body, and
     which would cover the giant with ridicule. Finally, he did not
     feel much afraid of Aramis, and he resolved, if he lived long
     enough, either to kill him, or at least to administer to him a
     wound in the face, that would considerably impair the beauty of
     which he was evidently so proud.

     "When D'Artagnan arrived in sight of the waste land adjoining the
     convent of barefooted Carmelites, noon was striking, and Athos
     was already on the ground. The guardsman, who still suffered
     cruelly from his wound, was seated on a post, and awaiting his
     adversary with the calm countenance and dignified air that never
     abandoned him. Upon D'Artagnan's appearance, he rose courteously,
     and advanced a few steps to meet him. Our Gascon, on his side,
     made his approach hat in hand, the plume trailing on the earth.

     "'Sir,' said Athos, 'I have given notice to two gentlemen to act
     as my seconds, but they are not come. I am surprised at it, for
     they are usually punctual.'

     "'For my part, sir,' returned D'Artagnan, 'I have no seconds. I
     arrived in Paris yesterday, and know no one but Monsieur de
     Treville, to whom I was recommended by my father, who has the
     honour to be a friend of his.'

     "Athos glanced at the beardless chin and youthful mien of his
     adversary, and seemed to reflect for a moment.

     "'Ah ça!' said he at last, speaking half to himself and half to
     D'Artagnan; 'ah ça! but if I kill you, it will be something
     very like child-murder.'

     "'Not exactly, sir,' replied D'Artagnan, with a bow that was not
     without its dignity; 'not exactly, sir, since you do me the
     honour to meet me with a wound by which you must be greatly
     inconvenienced.'

     "Inconvenienced certainly, and you hurt me terribly, I must
     acknowledge, when you ran against me just now; but I will use my
     left hand, according to my custom in such circumstances. Do not
     suppose on that account that I am sparing you; I fight decently
     with both hands, and a left-handed swordsman is an awkward
     antagonist when one is not prepared for him. I am sorry I did not
     tell you of it sooner, that you might have got your hand in
     accordingly.'

     "'Truly, sir,' said D'Artagnan, with another bow, 'I know not how
     to express my gratitude for such courtesy.'

     "'You are too obliging to say so,' returned Athos, with his
     princely air; 'let us talk of something else, if not disagreeable
     to you. Ah, sangbleu! you hurt me terribly! My shoulder burns.'

     "'If you would permit me,' said D'Artagnan, timidly.

     "'What then, sir?'

     "'I have a balm that is wonderfully efficacious in the cure of
     wounds. I hold the recipe from my mother, and have myself
     experienced its good effects.'

     "'Well?'

     "'Well, I am sure that in less than three days it would heal your
     wound; and at the end of that time, sir, it would still be a
     great honour for me to meet you.'

     "D'Artagnan said these words with a simplicity that did credit to
     his natural courtesy of feeling, at the same time that it could
     not give rise to the slightest doubt of his courage.

     "'Pardieu, sir!' said Athos, 'your proposition pleases me, not
     that I can accept it, but because it is that of a chivalrous
     gentleman. It is thus that spoke and acted those heroes of
     Charlemagne's days, on whom every cavalier should strive to model
     himself. Unfortunately we do not live in the times of the great
     emperor, but in those of Cardinal Richelieu; and however well we
     might keep our secret, it would be known before three days had
     elapsed that we intended to fight, and our duel would be
     prevented. Ah ça! where can those idlers be?'

     "'If you are in haste, sir,' resumed D'Artagnan with the same
     simplicity with which he had a moment before proposed to put off
     the duel for three days--'if you are pressed for time, and that
     it pleases you to finish with me at once, let me beg of you to do
     so.'

     "'Another proposal that I like,' said Athos with an approving nod
     of the head; 'it is that of a man lacking neither wit nor valour.
     Sir, I like men of your stamp; and I see that if we do not kill
     one another, I shall hereafter have much pleasure in your
     society. But let us wait for these gentlemen, I beg of you. I
     have plenty of time, and it will be more according to rule. Ha!
     here comes one of them.'

     "At that moment the gigantic form of Porthos appeared at the
     extremity of the Rue Vaugirard.

     "'What!' cried D'Artagnan, 'Monsieur Porthos is one of your
     seconds?'

     "'Yes; is it disagreeable to you?'

     "'By no means.'

     "'And here is the other.'

     "D'Artagnan turned his head and recognised Aramis.

     "'What!' he exclaimed in still greater astonishment, 'Monsieur
     Aramis is the other?'

     "'Certainly; do you not know that we are never seen asunder, and
     are known in court, camp, and city, as Athos, Porthos, and
     Aramis, or the three inseparables? But you are just arrived from
     Gascony, which accounts for your being unacquainted with these
     circumstances.'

     "Meanwhile Porthos, who had abandoned his cloak and changed his
     shoulder-belt, approached, nodded to Athos, but on beholding
     D'Artagnan, remained struck with astonishment.

     "'This is the gentleman I am to fight with,' said Athos
     indicating D'Artagnan with his hand, at the same time bowing to
     him.

     "'It is with him that I am to fight,' said Porthos.

     "'Not till one o'clock,' said D'Artagnan.

     "'And I also,' said Aramis, who just then came up.

     "'Our appointment was for two o'clock,' said D'Artagnan with
     perfect composure.

     "'What are you going to fight about, Athos?' asked Aramis.

     "'Faith, I can hardly tell you. He hurt my shoulder. And you,
     Porthos?'

     "'I fight because I am so minded,' replied Porthos colouring.

     "Athos, whom nothing escaped, saw a slight smile curling
     D'Artagnan's lip.

     "'We had a dispute about dress,' said the young Gascon.

     "'And you, Aramis?' asked Athos.

     "'A theological difference,' replied Aramis, making a sign to
     D'Artagnan that he wished the cause of their duel to remain a
     secret.

     "'Indeed!' said Athos looking at D'Artagnan.

     "'Yes, a point of St Augustin on which we are not agreed,' said
     the latter.

     "'Decidedly he is a man of wit and sense,' muttered Athos to
     himself.

     "'And now that you are all assembled, gentlemen,' said
     D'Artagnan, 'allow me to apologise to you.'

     "At the word apologise, a cloud passed across the features of
     Athos, Porthos smiled contemptuously, Aramis made a negative
     sign.

     "'You do not understand me, gentlemen,' said D'Artagnan raising
     his head proudly. 'I only apologise in case I should not be able
     to pay my debt to all of you; for Monsieur Athos has the right to
     kill me the first, which greatly diminishes the value of my debt
     to you, Monsieur Porthos, and renders that to Monsieur Aramis
     nearly worthless. And now, gentlemen, I say again, accept my
     apologies, but on that account only--and to work!'

     "And so saying, he drew his sword with the most fearless and
     gallant mien possible to be seen. His blood was up, and at that
     moment he would have fought not only Athos, Porthos, and Aramis,
     but the whole regiment of mousquetaires.

     "'When you please, sir,' said Athos, putting himself on guard.

     "'I was waiting your orders,' returned D'Artagnan.

     "But the two rapiers had scarcely clashed together, when five of
     the Cardinal's guards, commanded by Monsieur de Jussac, appeared
     from behind a corner of the convent.

     "'The Cardinal's guards!' exclaimed Porthos and Aramis. 'Sheath
     your swords, gentlemen!'

     "But it was too late. The combatants had been seen in an attitude
     that left no doubt as to their pugnacious intentions.

     "'Hola!' cried Jussac advancing towards them, followed by his
     men. 'Hola, mousquetaires! fighting here? And the edicts. We have
     forgotten them, eh?'

     "'Your generosity is really remarkable, gentlemen of the
     guards,' said Athos bitterly, for Jussac had been one of the
     aggressors in the recent affray. 'I promise you that if we saw
     you fighting we would not interrupt you. Leave us alone, then,
     and you will have your amusement for nothing.'

     "'Gentlemen,' said Jussac, 'I am grieved to tell you that the
     thing is impossible. Duty before every thing. Move on,
     therefore; it is the best thing you can do.'

     "This bantering exasperated Jussac. 'We will charge you,' said
     he, 'if you disobey.'

     "'They are five,' said Athos in a low voice, 'and we are but
     three; we shall be beaten again, and we must die here; for I
     swear not to reappear before the captain if conquered.'

     "Athos, Porthos, and Aramis drew closer to each other. Jussac was
     arranging his men in line. This single moment of delay was
     sufficient for D'Artagnan to make up his mind; it was one of
     those moments that decide a man's whole life. The choice was to
     be made between King and Cardinal, and, once made, it must be
     persevered in. If he fought, he disobeyed the law, risked his
     head, and made an enemy of a minister more powerful than the king
     himself. All these considerations passed like lightning through
     the mind of the young Gascon; but, be it said to his honour, he
     did not hesitate an instant. Turning towards Athos and his
     friends.

     "'Gentlemen,' said he, 'allow me to amend the words last spoken.
     You said you were only three, but to my thinking we are four.'

     "'But you are not one of us,' said Porthos.

     "'True,' replied D'Artagnan, 'I have not the coat; but I have the
     spirit. In my heart I am a mousquetaire--I feel it, and that
     leads me on.'

     "'You may retire, young man,' cried Jussac, who doubtless guessed
     D'Artagnan's intentions by his gestures and the expression of his
     face. 'You may retire, we permit it. Be-gone, then, and quickly.'

     "D'Artagnan did not stir.

     "'Decidedly you are a fine fellow,' said Athos, pressing the
     young man's hand.

     "But the three mousquetaires thought of D'Artagnan's youth, and
     distrusted his inexperience.

     "'We should only be three, of whom one wounded, and a child,'
     said Athos; 'but they will say all the same, that there were four
     of us.'

     "'Gentlemen,' said D'Artagnan, 'only try me, and I swear by my
     honour that if we are conquered I will not leave the ground
     alive.'

     "'What is your name, my brave fellow?' said Athos.

     "'D'Artagnan, sir.'

     "'Well, then, Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and D'Artagnan, forwards!'
     cried Athos.

     "'What do you decide to do?' cried Jussac.

     "'We are going to have the honour of charging you,' said Aramis,
     raising his hat with one hand and drawing his sword with the
     other.

     "And the nine combatants precipitated themselves on each other
     with a fury that did not exclude a certain degree of method.

     "The heart of the young Gascon beat high, not with fear, there
     was no shadow of it, but with emulation; he fought like an
     enraged tiger, turning about his enemy, changing each moment his
     ground and his guard. Jussac was one of the good blades of the
     day, and had had much practice; but he had, nevertheless, all the
     difficulty in the world to defend himself against a supple and
     active antagonist, who was constantly deviating from the received
     rules of fencing, attacking him on all sides at once, and
     parrying, at the same time, like a man who had the greatest
     regard for his epidermis. At last Jussac lost patience. Furious
     at being thus kept at bay by one whom he looked upon as a child,
     his sang-froid abandoned him, and he began to commit blunders.
     D'Artagnan, who, although lacking practice, was perfect in
     theory, redoubled his agility. Jussac, with the design of
     finishing him at once, delivered a terrible thrust, which
     D'Artagnan parried adroitly, and, before his opponent could raise
     himself, he glided like a serpent under his guard, and passed his
     sword through his body. Jussac fell heavily to the earth.

     "D'Artagnan now cast an uneasy and rapid glance over the field of
     battle. Aramis had already killed one of his adversaries. The
     other gave him plenty to do, but Aramis was able to take care of
     himself. Bicarat and Porthos were wounded; Porthos in the arm,
     and Bicarat in the thigh. But neither wound was serious, and the
     sight of their blood made them fight all the better. There was no
     need to interfere there. Athos, wounded again by Cahusac, was
     growing each moment paler, but he did not give way an inch. He
     had changed his sword to his left hand. D'Artagnan caught his eye
     as he was looking to see who most required his aid. The look of
     the wounded mousquetaire was most eloquent; he would have died
     sooner than call for assistance, but his glance said how much he
     stood in need of it. With a single bound, D'Artagnan was upon
     Cahusac's flank.

     "'Have a care, sir guardsman,' cried he, 'or I slay you on the
     spot.'

     "Cahusac turned to face his new opponent. It was high time, for
     Athos, who had only been sustained by his extreme courage, sank
     upon one knee.

     "'Sangdieu!' cried he to D'Artagnan, 'do not kill him, young
     man, I beg of you; I have an old quarrel to terminate with him
     when my wound is healed. Disarm him only--So--Well done!'

     "This last exclamation was caused by Cahusac's sword, which flew
     from his hand to a distance of twenty paces. D'Artagnan and
     Cahusac rushed to pick it up, but D'Artagnan reached it first,
     and put his foot upon it. Cahusac ran to the guardsman whom
     Aramis had killed, took his rapier, and was returning to
     D'Artagnan; but on his road he met Athos, who had taken breath
     during the moment's respite which the latter had procured him,
     and now recommenced the fight, fearing that the Gascon would kill
     his enemy. D'Artagnan saw that he should disoblige him by again
     interfering. A few seconds later, Cahusac fell with a wound
     through the throat. At the same moment Aramis placed his sword's
     point on the breast of his prostrate adversary, and forced him to
     sue for mercy.

     "Porthos and Bicarat alone remained. Porthos, while fighting,
     indulged in all sorts of fanfarronades, asking Bicarat what time
     of day it was, and complimenting him on the company which his
     brother had just attained in the regiment of Navarre. In spite of
     his jests, however, he did not gain ground. Bicarat was a
     stubborn and skilful opponent. It was time to bring matters to a
     conclusion before some patrol should arrive, and take both
     royalists and cardinalists into custody. Athos, Aramis, and
     D'Artagnan, surrounded Bicarat, and summoned him to surrender.
     Although alone against four, and with a wound through the thigh,
     he would not give in, though Jussac, who had raised himself on
     his elbow, called out to him to yield. Bicarat was a Gascon, like
     D'Artagnan; he only laughed, and pretended not to hear, at the
     same time pointing to the ground at his feet. 'Here will die
     Bicarat,' said he, 'the last of those who are with him.'

     "'But they are four against you,' cried Jussac; 'I order you to
     desist.'

     "'Ah, if you order me, it is another affair!' said Bicarat; 'you
     are my superior, and I must obey.'

     "And giving a spring backwards, he broke his sword across his
     knee, in order not to yield it up, threw the pieces over the
     convent wall, and, crossing his arms, whistled a Cardinalist air.

     "Courage is always respected even in an enemy. The mousquetaires
     saluted Bicarat with their swords, and returned them to their
     scabbards. D'Artagnan did the same, and, assisted by Bicarat, he
     carried under the convent porch Jussac, Cahusac, and that one of
     Aramis's adversaries who was only wounded. The other, as already
     observed, was dead. They then rang the bell, and left the ground;
     the mousquetaires and D'Artagnan, intoxicated with joy, carrying
     away four swords out of five, and taking the direction of
     Monsieur de Treville's hotel. Every mousquetaire whom they met,
     and informed of what had happened, turned back and accompanied
     them; so that at last their march was like a triumphal
     procession. D'Artagnan was beside himself with delight; he walked
     between Athos and Porthos, holding an arm of each.

     "'If I am not yet a mousquetaire,' said he to his new friends, as
     they crossed the threshold of the Hotel Treville, 'I may at least
     say that I am received apprentice.'"

The result of this affair is to procure D'Artagnan the favour of Monsieur de Treville and the
King--the latter of whom dislikes the Cardinal in secret nearly as much as he fears him. The
young Gascon has an audience of Louis the Just, who recruits his finances by the present of
a handful of pistoles; and a few days later he is appointed to a cadetship in the company of
guards of the Chevalier des Essarts, a brother-in-law of Treville. According to the singular
ideas of those days, there was nothing degrading to a gentleman in receiving money from the
king's hand. D'Artagnan, therefore, pockets the pistoles with many thanks, and takes an early
opportunity of dividing them with his friends with the mythological names, Messieurs Athos,
Porthos, and Aramis, who, according to the custom of mousquetaires, have more gold upon their
coats than in their purses. The courage and good qualities of the Gascon have won the hearts
of the three guardsmen, and he is admitted to make a fourth in their brotherhood, of which
the motto is, "Un pour tous, et tous pour un." All is in common amongst them--pleasures, perils,
pistoles.

The characters of the three mousquetaires are well sketched and sustained, and illustrate admirably
the vices, virtues, and propensities of their time and station. Aramis, who was originally
intended for the church, has relinquished the black coat of an abbé in order to fight a nobleman
who had insulted him. He still, however, persists in considering himself as a guardsman only
pro tempore; and whenever fortune or his mistress frowns upon him, he declares his intention
of abandoning his sinful mode of life, and throwing himself into the arms of mother church.
Vanity is the failing of Porthos, who shines more by his imposing appearance, brilliant attire,
and bull-dog courage, than by any qualities of the head. To Athos, who is the most interesting
of the three, a certain mystery is attached, which, however, is seen through early in the book.
He is a man of high birth, princely manners, and chivalrous feeling, but whose stormy life
has cast a strong tinge of melancholy over his character, and who now finds his sole consolation
in the wine-cup. It must not be therefore supposed that Athos is a sot, a wallower in wine,
or a haunter of tavern orgies. He drinks, it is true, enough to prostrate any three ordinary
men; but he takes his liquor, as he does every thing else, so much like a gentleman, and, moreover,
there is so much self-devotion and generosity in his character, such dignity of manner and
rectitude of feeling--his temper so even and kindly--his courage so heroic--that he is unquestionably
the most amiable and interesting of the dramatis personæ, preferable to D'Artagnan, to whom
premature worldly wisdom gives a hardness bordering upon egotism. While Aramis is sighing sonnets
to his mistress, and Porthos parading on the crown of the causeway in all the glory of gold
lace and embroidery, Athos sits tranquilly at home, and says, like Gregory in the Deserter--

  "J'aime mieux boire."

His real name--for Athos, Porthos, and Aramis are merely assumed ones--is known only to the
King and to Monsieur de Treville.

It would be difficult within the limits of this paper to give an idea of the entire plot of
the Three Mousquetaires, which is, in fact, less a tale with a regular intrigue and dénouement,
than a narrative of adventures and incidents, extending over a period of nearly three years.
D'Artagnan, whose enterprising character and Gascon acuteness qualify him admirably to take
a part in the court intrigues of the time, soon finds himself almost at open war with the Cardinal,
and engaged in serving the interests of Louis the Thirteenth's unhappy queen, Anne of Austria,
who, by rejecting the suit of the scarlet duke--as the mousquetaires irreverently style the
Cardinal Duke of Richelieu--has drawn upon herself the deadly hatred of that omnipotent personage.
The Duke of Buckingham, who is madly in love with the queen, visits Paris in disguise, and
obtains an interview with her. At parting, he implores her to give him some trifle, which he
may preserve as a souvenir of their attachment; and Anne of Austria gives him the first thing
that comes to hand, which happens to be a jewel-case, containing twelve diamond clasps or ferrets
that she has lately received from the King. The Cardinal, omnipresent by his spies, learns
this; manages adroitly to rouse the king's jealousy; and prevails on him to give a ball, at
which the queen is desired to appear, wearing the ferrets in question. Anne of Austria is in
despair. To obtain the restitution of the jewels within the eight days that have to elapse
before the one fixed for the ball, appears impossible. Buckingham is in England; if she writes,
her letter will be intercepted by the Cardinal; if she sends, her messenger will be stopped.
Nothing could at that time be done in France without coming to the knowledge of Richelieu.
In her extremity she is induced to confide in one of her attendants, with whom D'Artagnan is
in love; and a few hours later, the intrepid Gascon and his three inseparable friends set out
for England, provided with a leave of absence from Monsieur de Treville, and attended by their
four lackeys. D'Artagnan alone knows the object of their journey; but the others, confiding
implicitly in his judgment, and bound, moreover, by the rules of their association, ask no
questions, and willingly brave the dangers that the Cardinal strews in their path. It is agreed
that, in case of rencontres by the way, the dead or wounded are to be left to their fate, and
the others are to push on without an instant's delay. Should D'Artagnan fall, the survivors
are to take from his pocket the queen's letter to Buckingham, and continue their route.

The adventurers are not allowed to proceed far without molestation. They stop to breakfast,
and a stranger picks a quarrel with Porthos, who stays behind to fight him, and does not rejoin
them. Near Beauvais they receive a volley from some pretended labourers; D'Artagnan's hat is
knocked off by a ball; a lackey is left in the road, and Aramis is badly wounded, and obliged
to remain at the next town. D'Artagnan, Athos, and their two attendants, reach Amiens at midnight,
and stop to sleep at the sign of the Golden Lily. Here various suspicious incidents occur,
and in the morning their horses are found to be dead-lame, and unable to proceed. One that
might still have gone on has been bled by mistake.

     "All these accidents succeeding each other began to alarm our
     travellers; they might be the result of chance, but they were
     more probably that of an organized plot. Athos and D'Artagnan
     left their room, while Planchet (D'Artagnan's groom) went to
     enquire whether there were any horses to be bought in the
     neighbourhood. At the door were standing two vigorous animals,
     saddled and bridled, and which would have suited the guardsmen
     well. Planchet asked to whom they belonged, and was told that
     their masters had passed the night at the inn, and were then
     paying their score previous to departure. Athos went to do the
     same, while D'Artagnan and Planchet remained at the street door.

     "The host was in a small back room, which Athos was requested to
     enter. He did so without suspicion, and took out some pistoles to
     pay. The innkeeper, who was seated at a desk, of which one of the
     drawers was half-open, took the money, turned it about, and
     examined it on all sides, and suddenly exclaiming that it was
     false, declared that he would have Athos and his companion
     arrested as coiners.

     "'Scoundrel!' cried Athos, advancing towards him; 'I will cut
     your ears off for your insolence.'

     "But the man stooped down, took a brace of pistols out of the
     open drawer, and pointing them at Athos, called loudly for help.
     On the instant four armed men entered by a side-door, and
     attacked Athos.

     "'I am taken!' cried the mousquetaire, with all the power of his
     lungs. 'To horse, D'Artagnan! Spur! spur!'

     "And he fired both his pistols. D'Artagnan and Planchet untied
     the two horses that were waiting at the door, sprang upon their
     backs, and set off full gallop.

     "By dint of spurring and precaution, D'Artagnan and his follower
     reach Calais without further accident; the horse of the former
     falling dead within a hundred yards of the town. They hasten to
     the port, and find themselves close to a gentleman and his
     servant, dusty and travel-stained, who are enquiring for a vessel
     to take them to England. The master of a sloop that is ready to
     sail informs them, that an order had arrived that very morning to
     prevent any ship from leaving the harbour without an express
     permission from the Cardinal.

     "'I have that permission,' said the gentleman, taking a paper
     from his pocket.

     "'Very good!' said the sailor. 'Get it countersigned by the
     governor of the port, and give me the preference.'

     "'Where shall I find the governor?'

     "'At his country-house, a quarter of a league from the town. You
     see it yonder. A slated roof at the foot of a little hill.'"

The gentleman and his attendant take the direction of the governor's house. D'Artagnan follows
them; picks a quarrel with the stranger, who is a certain Count de Wardes, an adherent of the
Cardinal's, wounds him desperately, himself receiving a scratch, takes the pass, gets it countersigned,
and proceeds to England. The Duke of Buckingham is hunting at Windsor with the king; but the
indefatigable Gascon follows him thither, and delivers his letter. The duke hurries with him
to London to give him the ferrets; but, to his unspeakable consternation, finds that two out
of the twelve are missing. They had been cut from his dress by an emissary of the Cardinal's
at a ball at Windsor Castle, at which he had worn the queen's present. The ferrets are of immense
value, and difficult workmanship. Buckingham sends for his jeweller, who demands eight days
and three thousand pistoles to replace the missing ornaments. The duke locks him up in a room,
with his tools and a workman, and allows him six thousand pistoles, and thirty-six hours to
complete then. The ferrets are ready within the prescribed period. Furnished with a password
from the duke, who has trusty agents in France, D'Artagnan reaches Paris by a different road
and without impediment, arriving in time to save the queen, who appears at the ball with her
twelve ferrets, to the vast discomfiture of the Cardinal. Meanwhile D'Artagnan's mistress had
been spirited away by Richelieu, and the young Gascon is in despair. He confides his misfortunes
to Monsieur de Treville, who promises to do what he can to find the lady, and advises D'Artagnan
to leave Paris till the Cardinal's wrath is a little blown over. D'Artagnan takes his advice;
bethinks him of the three mousquetaires, and sets out to look for them. He finds Porthos and
Aramis where he left them, nearly recovered from their wounds; and proceeding to Amiens, enters
the hotel of the Golden Lily, and confronts the host--his whip in his right hand, his left
on his sword-hilt, and evidently meaning mischief.

The innkeeper, however, turns out to be more an object of pity than blame. Previously to the
arrival of D'Artagnan and Athos on their way to England, he had received information from the
authorities, that a party of coiners, disguised as guardsmen, would arrive at his inn, and
that he was to take measures to arrest them. The six men who brought him these orders disguised
themselves as servants and stable-boys, and remained to assist in the capture. In the skirmish,
Athos shot two of them, wounded a third, cut the host across the face with the flat of his
sword, and retreated fighting to the cellar stairs. Entering the cellar, he pulled the door
to and barricaded it. His assailants left the house, carrying off their killed and wounded;
and when the innkeeper, recovering a little from his alarm, went to inform the governor of
what had occurred, the latter declared himself totally ignorant of the whole business, denied
that he had given orders to arrest any coiners, and threatened to hang the unlucky host if
he mixed up his name in the affair.

     "'But, Athos!' cried D'Artagnan, losing all patience at the
     innkeeper's prolixity,--'Athos, what is become of him?'

     "'I was eager to repair my wrongs towards the gentleman,' replied
     the innkeeper, 'and hurried to the cellar to set him at liberty.
     But on my declaring what I came for, he swore it was only a snare
     laid for him, and insisted upon making his conditions before he
     came out. I told him very humbly--for I was aware of the scrape
     into which I had got myself by my violence towards one of the
     King's mousquetaires--that I was ready to submit to them.'

     "'In the first place,' said he, 'I must have my servant delivered
     to me, fully armed.'

     "His order was obeyed, and Monsieur Grimaud was taken down to the
     cellar, wounded as he was. His master received him, barricaded
     the door again, and bid us go to the devil.

     "'But where is he?' cried D'Artagnan. 'Where is Athos?'

     "'In the cellar, sir.'

     "'Scoundrel! you have kept him all this time in the cellar?'

     "'Good heavens, sir! I keep him in the cellar! You do not know
     what he is doing there, or you would not suppose it. If you can
     prevail upon him to come out, I shall be grateful to you to the
     last day of my life; I will adore you as my guardian angel.'

     "'I shall find him there, then?'

     "'Certainly you will, sir--he won't come out. Every day we are
     obliged to hand him down bread at the end of a hay-fork, and meat
     too, when he asks for it. But, alas! it is not of bread and meat
     that he makes the largest consumption. I tried once to enter the
     cellar with two of my servants, and he put himself in a most
     terrible passion. I heard him and his lackey cocking their
     pistols and carbine; and when we asked what their intentions
     were, your friend said that they had forty shots to fire, and
     that they would fire every one before allowing us to enter the
     cellar. I then went to complain to the governor, and he told me
     that I had only got what I deserved, and that it would teach me
     to maltreat honourable gentlemen who used my house.'

     "'So that, since that time....' said D'Artagnan, who could not
     help laughing at the pitiable countenance of the host.

     "'Since that time, sir,' continued the latter, 'we lead the most
     wretched life imaginable; for you must know that all our
     provisions are in the cellar, our wine in bottle and our wine in
     cask, beer, oil, and spices, hams and sausages; and as we cannot
     get at them, we are unable to give food or drink to the
     travellers who alight here, and our inn is losing all its custom.
     If your friend stops one week longer in my cellar, I am a ruined
     man.'

     "'And quite right that you should be, scoundrel! It was easy to
     see by our appearance, that we were men of quality and not
     coiners.'

     "'Yes, sir, you are right,' replied poor Boniface. 'But only
     listen to him, he is getting into a passion.'

     "'Doubtless somebody has disturbed him,' said D'Artagnan.

     "'We are obliged to disturb him,' cried the host; 'two English
     gentlemen have just arrived. The English, as you know, love good
     wine, and these have asked for the best. My wife is gone to beg
     Monsieur Athos to let her in, and he has no doubt refused as
     usual. Holy Virgin! What a racket he is making.'

     "D'Artagnan rose from his seat, and followed by the host and by
     Planchet with his cocked carbine, took the direction of the
     cellar, whence a tremendous noise was proceeding. The Englishmen
     were exasperated; they had just come off a long journey, and were
     dying of hunger and thirst.

     "'It is perfect tyranny,' cried they in very good French, 'that
     this madman will not allow these good people the use of their
     wine. But we will break open the door, and if he is too furious,
     we will kill him.'

     "'Not so fast, gentlemen,' said D'Artagnan, drawing his pistols
     from his belt. 'You will kill nobody, if you please.'

     "'Let them come,' said Athos, in his usual calm voice, from the
     other side of the door, 'let them come in, and we shall see.'

     "Brave as they appeared to be, the two Englishmen hesitated and
     looked at one another. One might almost have supposed that the
     cellar was garrisoned by one of those hungry ogres of the fairy
     tale, whose cavern no one could enter with impunity. There was a
     moment's silence; but the Englishmen were ashamed to retreat, and
     one of them, descending the five or six steps leading to the
     cellar, gave the door a kick that made it rattle on its hinges.

     "'Planchet,' said D'Artagnan, cocking his pistols, 'you take the
     one at the bottom of the stairs; I will take the other. Since you
     are for a fight, gentlemen, you shall have a bellyfull.'

     "'Is that D'Artagnan's voice?' cried Athos.

     "'It is,' replied the Gascon.

     "'Very good,' said Athos, 'we will work them a little, these
     door-breakers.'

     "'A moment's patience, Athos,' said D'Artagnan. 'Gentlemen,' he
     continued, turning to the Englishmen, 'you are between two fires.
     My servant and myself have three shots to fire, you will receive
     as many from the cellar, besides which we have got our swords,
     with the use of which, I can assure you, my friend and myself are
     tolerably well acquainted. Allow me to arrange matters. I give
     you my word that you shall have some wine just now.'

     "'If there is any left,' growled Athos in a tone of raillery.

     "'What does he mean--if there is any left?' cried the host, who
     felt a cold perspiration break out all over him.

     "'Nonsense, there will be some left,' replied D'Artagnan; 'two
     men cannot have drunk the whole cellar out.'

     "The Englishmen sheathed their swords, and D'Artagnan related to
     them the history of the imprisonment of Athos, upon hearing which
     they greatly blamed the innkeeper.

     "'Now, gentlemen,' said D'Artagnan, 'if you will be pleased to
     return to your apartment, in ten minutes you shall have what you
     require.'

     "The Englishmen bowed and retired.

     "'I am alone, my dear Athos,' said D'Artagnan.--'Open the door.'

     "There was a great noise of fagots and beams falling down; the
     besieged was demolishing his counter-scarps and bastions. The
     next moment the door opened, and the pale face of the
     mousquetaire appeared. D'Artagnan sprang forward and embraced
     him, but when he tried to lead him out of the cellar, he
     perceived that Athos staggered.

     "'You are wounded?' cried he.

     "'I! not the least,' was the reply. 'I am dead drunk, that is
     all, and never did any man better deserve to be so. Fore God!
     mine host, I have drunk for my share, at least one hundred and
     fifty bottles.'

     "'Heaven have mercy on me!' cried the host. 'If the servant has
     drunk half as much as the master, I am a ruined man.'

     "'Grimaud knows his place too well to drink the same wine as his
     master; he has drunk from the cask. By-the-by, I think he must
     have forgotten to put in the spigot--I hear a running.'

     "D'Artagnan burst into a fit of laughter. The innkeeper was in a
     high fever. Just then Grimaud showed himself behind his master,
     his carbine on his shoulder, and his head shaking like that of
     the drunken satyr in some of Rubens' pictures. His clothes were
     smeared with an unctuous liquid, which the host immediately
     recognized as his best olive oil.

     "D'Artagnan and Athos now crossed the common room, and installed
     themselves in the best apartment of the hotel; while the
     innkeeper and his wife lighted lamps, and rushed into the cellar,
     where a frightful spectacle awaited them. In rear of the
     fortifications, in which Athos had made a breach for his exit,
     and which were composed of fagots, planks, and empty casks,
     arranged according to all the rules of strategy, were numerous
     pools of oil and wine, in which the bones of the hams that had
     been eaten were lying. In one corner was a pile of broken
     bottles, and in another a huge cask of wine was just yielding up
     the last drops of its blood. Out of fifty large sausages that had
     been suspended to the beams of the roof, ten only were remaining.

With characteristic generosity and insouciance, Athos forgives the host, and compensates him
for the damage done to his property. The two guardsmen then sit down to drink, and D'Artagnan
tells his friend of the misfortune he has had in the loss of his mistress.

     "'Your misfortune makes me laugh,' said Athos, shrugging his
     shoulders. 'I wonder what you would say to a love story that I
     could tell you.'

     "'Something that happened to yourself?'

     "'Or to one of my friends; no matter.'

     "'Tell it me.'

     "'I would rather drink.'

     "'You can do both.'

     "'True,' said Athos, filling his glass; 'the two things go well
     together.'

     "The mousquetaire paused, and seemed to be collecting his
     thoughts; and as he did so, D'Artagnan observed that he grew each
     moment paler. He had reached that stage of intoxication at which
     ordinary drinkers fall under the table and sleep. Athos, however,
     did not do that; he dreamed aloud without sleeping. There was
     something frightful in this somnambulism of drunkenness.

     "'One of my friends,' he began--'one of my friends, mind you, not
     myself,' interrupted he with a gloomy smile; 'a count of my
     province, that is to say of Berri, noble as a Dandolo or a
     Montmorency, fell in love when twenty-five years of age, with a
     young girl of seventeen, beautiful as painters have depicted
     Venus. Joined to the naïveté of her age, she possessed the soul
     and feeling of a poet; she could not be said to please--she
     intoxicated all who approached her. She lived in a little village
     with her brother, who was a priest. None knew who they were, nor
     whence they came; but she was so beautiful, and her brother so
     pious, that none thought of asking. It was rumoured and believed
     that they were of good family. My friend, who was lord of that
     country, might have seduced the young girl or taken her by force,
     as he chose; he was the master; who would have come to the
     assistance of two friendless strangers? Unfortunately he was an
     honest man, and he married her. The fool-the idiot!'

     "'Why a fool, since he loved her?' asked D'Artagnan.

     "'Patience,' said Athos. 'He conducted her to his castle, and
     made her the first lady of the province; and, to do her justice,
     she knew perfectly how to support her rank.'

     "'Well?' said D'Artagnan.

     "'Well! one day she was out hunting with her husband,' continued
     Athos, speaking in a low tone and very fast, 'she was overcome by
     the heat, and fell from her horse in a swoon; the count sprang to
     her assistance, and as her clothes seemed to prevent her
     breathing, he cut them open with his dagger, and her shoulder was
     uncovered. Guess what she had upon her shoulder, D'Artagnan?'
     said Athos with a strange wild laugh.

     "'How can I tell?' said D'Artagnan.

     "'A fleur-de-lis. She was branded!'

     "And Athos emptied at a draught the cup that stood before him.

     "'Horror!' exclaimed D'Artagnan. 'What do you tell me?'

     "'The truth--the angel was a devil--the innocent young girl was a
     convict.'

     "'And what did the count do?'

     "'The count was a powerful nobleman; he had right of pit and
     halter upon his lands; he bared the shoulder of the countess,
     tied her hands behind her back, and hung her to a tree.'

     "'Heavens! Athos! a murder!' cried D'Artagnan.

     "'Yes, a murder, nothing more,' said Athos, pale as death. 'But
     there is no wine--we are drinking nothing.'

     "And Athos seized the last bottle by the neck, put it to his
     mouth, and emptied it as though it had been an ordinary glass."

This strange story, that could hardly have proceeded from any but a French imagination, is
nevertheless very effective, far more so in Monsieur Dumas' terse and pointed diction than
in our imperfect translation. The dame with the fleur-de-lis on her shoulder is not dead, but
on the contrary married again, and proves to be no other than an emissary of the Cardinal,
a certain Lady de Winter, or Milady, as M. Dumas persists in calling her. She it was who cut
the diamonds off Buckingham's dress, and informed the Cardinal of the same. Throughout the
whole book she plays the part of a sort of Mephistopheles in petticoats, doing evil for evil's
sake; and finally, when in prison in England, gains over a fanatical young officer named Felton,
who is set to guard her, and working on him by the power of her charms and an artfully devised
story, instigates him to the murder of Buckingham, who is at Portsmouth fitting out an armament
for the relief of La Rochelle, then besieged by Richelieu. She escapes to France, but there
falls into the hands of her deadly enemy, D'Artagnan, and of her first husband, Athos, otherwise
Count de la Fère. Her punishment is one of the last and most striking scenes in the book, which
concludes with the capture of La Rochelle, leaving D'Artagnan a lieutenant of mousquetaires,
and, to all appearance, on the high-road to further preferment. Some account of his future
fortune is promised us by Monsieur Dumas; and, however alarming a continuation to a book in
eight volumes may sound, we cannot help wishing he may keep his promise. There is less occasion
to be alarmed at the length of a six or eight volume book from his hands, than at that of a
three volume one from those of many other writers; and moreover one must take into account
the ingenuity of French publishers, who manage to have the type spread out over the largest
possible amount of white paper. The system of putting little in a page, and diminishing that
little by the interpolation of huge and apparently objectless blank spaces, has reached its
height in Paris; and, although an imposition on the public, it perhaps renders a book lighter
and pleasanter to read. Light reading and pleasant reading Monsieur Dumas' romance assuredly
is; and we can wish our readers no better pastime, during the long evenings of this wintry
season, than the perusal of the feats and fortunes of the Trois Mousquetaires.

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

PART XV.

Valenciennes was now captured. The sagacity of my friend, the French engineer, had not been
deceived. The explosion of the three great mines, an operation from its magnitude almost new
to war, and in its effects irresistible, had thrown open the fortress. The garrison had done
their work gallantly, and the result was a capitulation, hastened by the outcry of the famishing
inhabitants. I hastened to the quarters of my regiment, was received with all cordiality, had
the honour of an interview with the royal duke, who, at all times affable, was now in peculiar
good-humour, and who led me into a long detail of such public opinions as might be gathered
from my intercourse with the garrison. At the close of our interview he gave me a note, which
was to be forwarded to the adjutant-general. I made my bow, and retired.

All in the camp was festivity. A great achievement had been accomplished, and the barriers
of France were broken down. But in the midst of national triumph, I felt a depression which
rendered me wholly incapable of sharing it. The wounds of the spirit are not to be healed like
those of the frame; and with the recollection of the noble creature whom I had lost, bitterness
mingled in every sound, and sight, and exultation. My first request would have been for leave
of absence, that I might follow her, if she were still in France, or in the world. But the
bustle at headquarters told me that some movement was about to take place; and, under those
circumstances, to ask for leave was impossible. Still I continued making every imaginable enquiry,
dispatching letters, and seeing postmasters, to obtain intelligence of the route which Clotilde
had taken. After tracing her for the first few leagues, all tidings were lost; and I had only
to trust to that hope which was a part of my sanguine nature, and which was sustained by a
kind of consciousness that a being so superior could not be flung away in the chances which
visit the multitude.

While I was thus pondering and perplexed, I was summoned to attend one of the principal officers
of his royal highness's staff. "We are sending despatches of some importance to London," said
he, "and it is the wish of the commander-in-chief that you should take them. I have the pleasure
to tell you, that he feels an interest in you from the opportunities which you have had of
distinguishing yourself in the campaign, and that he has appointed you an extra aide-de-camp.
Your service begins soon," added my informant with a smile, "for you must set off to-night.
The despatch mentioning the capitulation of the fortress was, of course, sent off at once;
but as the commission, in those cases, is given by routine, it is desirable to have some one
in London capable of explaining the 'explanation,' or perhaps taking the place of the 'honourable,'
or 'right honourable' personage who has been made the official bearer of the despatch. His
royal highness is satisfied, from his conversation with you, that you will be perfectly fit
for this purpose; and here is the despatch, with which you are to make all expedition to the
Horse-Guards."

After giving my orders for the journey, I hastened to take leave of the man whom I most honoured
and esteemed, my unfailing friend Guiscard. To my surprise, he received the intelligence of
my appointment with scarcely a word of congratulation. Little as I myself was now excitable
by any thing in the shape of human fortune, I was chagrined by his obstinate gravity. He observed
it, and started from his seat. "Come," said he, "let us take a walk, and get out of the sight
of mankind, if we can." He took my arm, and we strayed along the banks of the Scheldt, where,
however, his purpose was unobtainable, for the whole breadth of the river was covered with
the provision barges of the troops. The bargemen were enjoying the fine July evening in the
national style--swilling the worst beer that ever punished the taste for that barbarian beverage,
and filling the fresh breeze with the fumes of tobacco, worthy of the beer. Guiscard stopped
to gaze at them.

"I envy those fellows," said he. "Not merely for their escaping all care, and being able to
extract enjoyment out of their execrable drink and pipes, but from their being exempt from
all contact with portfolios."

"But such enjoyment is only that of the swine."

"Well, and is not that of the swine perfect?--and what would you have more than perfection?"

A huge herd of those creatures, basking along the miry edge of the river, helped his illustration.
"Mr Marston, you have not been for the last month on the staff of the commander-in-chief of
the allied armies, or you would not look so incredulous. Sir, man's senses may be as suitable
for his purposes, as those of the animals which we see wallowing there." I stared, waiting
for the conclusion. He proceeded. "But man has drawbacks on his natural faculties, which they
have not. Possibly nature intended that we should be as happy as they. But make nine-tenths
of them hewers of wood and drawers of water--send some of them to dungeons--enforce a conscription
among the rest, and send them to use their tusks upon each other, and the most complacent of
them would rebel: or, as the last trial of temper, put the meekest of the race into a cabinet
of princes and general-officers, themselves controlled by a cabinet five hundred miles off;
and if they do not growl as I do now, I shall give up all my knowledge of quadruped nature."

"Why, Guiscard, what is the matter with you to-night? Have we not gained our point? You are
like the Thracians, who always mourned at the birth of a child."

"And the Thracians were perfectly right, if the child were to be reared a diplomatist. You
talk of success!" Our path had led to where a view of Valenciennes opened on us through the
trees; and its shattered ramparts and curtains, the trees felled along its glacis, and its
bastions stripped and broken by our cannon-balls, certainly presented a rueful spectacle. The
Austrian flag was flying on the citadel.

"There," said he, "is our prize. It is not worth the loading of a single gun; but it has cost
us more millions to ruin than it took francs to build it--it has cost us the conquest of France;
and will cost Europe the war, which we might have extinguished three months ago if we had but
left it behind. I acknowledge that I speak in the bitterness of my heart; delay has ruined
every thing. Our march to Paris, and our march to Georgium Sidus, will now be finished on the
same day."

