"That is the way it will be all the time now, I suppose," said Bessie with some irritation;
"Hugh gone, and Sibyl so absorbed that she is good for nothing as a companion. Aunt Faith,
you and I are like the last roses of summer left blooming alone."

Aunt Faith smiled. She was very gentle with Bessie this morning; she remembered her promise
to Hugh, and she saw also that the young girl was suffering under her share of the sorrow of
parting, a sorrow always heavier for the one that stays than for the one who goes.

"I shall go upstairs and paint," said Bessie after a pause; "I succeeded at last in giving
the right expression to Hugh's eyes. You may see the picture, now, Aunt Faith; it is so like him."

At this moment Mr. Leslie came into the sitting-room, but Sibyl was not with him; his face
was pale, he went up to Aunt Faith and took her hand with tender solemnity.

"What is it?" she asked, sinking into a chair; her voice was quiet, she had too often endured
affliction not to recognize its messenger at a glance. Mr. Leslie, in his ministration in times
of trouble, had learned never to hide or alter the plain truth.

"The morning boat from B------ has just come in," he said. "The captain reports that the evening
boat of the same line, the America, which left Westerton last night, collided with a schooner
off Shoreton about midnight, and sank in ten minutes. The night was very dark, but many of
the passengers were picked up by the 'Empire' as she came along two hours afterward, some clinging
to fragments of the wreck, and some in one of the America's small boats. The other boats are
missing, but there is hope that they are safe, as the storm was not severe, and the lake is
now quite calm. The rescued passengers think that some may have been picked up by a propeller
whose lights they saw in the distance."

"You have come to tell us that Hugh is among the rescued," said Aunt Faith in a faint voice,
hoping against hope.

"Hugh is drowned!" said Bessie with hard, cold distinctness; then she sat down by the table
and buried her face in her hands.

"Hugh is not among those brought back by the 'Empire,'" said Mr. Leslie, "but I have strong
hope that he is safe. Tugs have already started for the scene of the accident, the water is
still at summer heat, and besides, among the many vessels and propellers constantly passing
over that very spot, there is every probability that many have been picked up before this time.
Hugh is very strong, and an excellent swimmer, also."

"Hugh is drowned!" said Bessie in the same hard voice; "He will never come back to us alive."

"Bessie, Bessie!" cried Sibyl, rushing into the room, "you shall not, you dare not say such
cruel words!" Sibyl's face was discolored with violent weeping, and her whole frame shook with
agitation; she and her cousin seemed to have changed places, for Bessie did not shed a tear.

"I say what is true," she answered; "Hugh is drowned! Hugh is dead!"

Mr. Leslie went over to her, and took her cold hand; "Bessie," he said gently, "why do you
give up all hope? There are a great many chances for Hugh."

"Go away!" said Bessie in the same dull monotone; "Hugh is dead, I tell you! Go put crape on
the door!"

"She is ill," said Mr. Leslie in a low tone to Aunt Faith; "you had better take her upstairs."

Aunt Faith roused herself from her own grief; "come, dear," she said, rising.

"I shall not go," said Bessie; "I shall wait here for Hugh."

At this moment Tom and Gem ran into the room.

"Oh, Aunt Faith! what is it?" began Tom. "We met some boys and they told us that the America
was run into last night."

Gem looked at Bessie and Sibyl, and then without a word, she sat down in her little chair and
began to cry bitterly. Aunt Faith could not answer Tom, the sound of Gem's violent weeping,
and Sibyl's sobs, seemed to choke the words on her lips.

"I don't believe a word of it!" cried Tom indignantly. "Hugh can swim better than any one in
Westerton, and he's as strong as a lion! I'm going right down to the dock, and you'll see him
coming back with me before night."

"Hugh is dead!" said Bessie again; "Hugh is dead!"

The hours passed slowly in those long minutes of weary waiting in which young hearts grow into
old age in a single day. Friends and neighbors flocked into the old stone house, and their
voices were hushed as they came and went with kindly but useless sympathy. Mr. Leslie had gone
to the scene of the accident on a fast tug, accompanied by some of Hugh's young companions,
and as, during the day, different vessels came into port, they were boarded by anxious friends
and the latest reports eagerly sought. The bank of the lake was thronged, people stood there
with glasses, in spite of the steady rain, scanning the eastern horizon in the hope of discovering
the smoke of approaching propellers. Others had friends on board the America besides the family
at the old stone house. But Hugh was well known and well liked, and his was the only young
life among those still missing from Westerton; the others were middled-aged or old, and with
that universal sympathy which the death of a bright vigorous youth always awakens, the whole
town mourned for Hugh, and stories of his generous, manly nature, flew from mouth to mouth,
until even strangers felt that they knew him.

At five o'clock a tug returned bringing a man and wife exhausted with twelve hours in the water
lashed to floating spars; but they soon revived, and the good news flew through the city, and
friends told it to the family in the old stone house, clustered together around Bessie, who
had not changed her attitude or tasted food since morning. "If they were saved, why not Hugh?"
they said hopefully.

"Hugh is dead!" repeated Bessie; "they will bring him home, poor drowned Hugh!" Sibyl broke
forth into violent weeping, and Aunt Faith shuddered at Bessie's words. "Can you not persuade
Bessie to go upstairs and lie down?" said a lady friend, looking apprehensively at the young
girl's fixed eyes.

Aunt Faith shook her head. "We must leave her to herself for the present," she answered sadly;
"her grief is beyond expression now."

Later in the day, the tug Mr. Leslie had taken was sighted from the bank, and a crowd assembled
on the dock, with the feeling that suspense would soon be over.

"They would not have come back so soon unless they had found him," said one; "they would have
cruised around there for a day or two as long as there was any hope."

"But they don't hoist any signal," said another; "they must know we are waiting here."

The little tug came rapidly in, watched by hundreds of eyes, and when at last she approached
the dock, the anxiety grew intense. There came no shout from those on board, the quiet was
ominous, and, chilled by a sudden awe, the crowd stepped back, and awaited the result in silence.
The boat was made fast, and then, after a short delay, the young men came forth bearing the
shrouded form of their late companion, now still in death. Hugh was dead, then? Yes, Hugh was dead!

But he had not died in vain, and the story of his death was repeated from mouth to mouth throughout
the city; women heard it and sobbed aloud, as they held their darlings closer; men heard it
and spoke a few brief words of praise and regret to which their wet eyes gave emphasis.

About half-past eleven the previous night, the America had been struck amidships by an unknown
schooner driving down unseen in the intense darkness of the storm. Most of the passengers had
gone to their state-rooms, but Hugh was still in the cabin; rushing out on deck he saw and
heard that the boat would sink, and, accompanied by the captain, ran back through the cabin,
arousing the passengers and telling them of the danger. In an instant all was confusion, agony,
and despair; some of the men leaped overboard, but the women with their instinctive shrinking
from the dark water, could not be persuaded to leave the deck. A few passengers and part of
the crew got off in one of the small boats, but the other boats were swamped by the rush into
them; a cry went up that the steamer was sinking, and Hugh was seen to jump overboard with
a little child in his arms, a baby whose mother had held it imploringly towards him, as he
tried to persuade her to take the dangerous leap. "Take the child," she said; "I will follow
you," and then as they disappeared, with a wild cry the poor woman flung herself over after
them. In the mean time the captain and some of the hands and passengers had ascended to the
hurricane deck, and when the America sank, the force of the waves separated the deck from the
hull, and it floated off, a frail support for the little group it carried. The lake was strewn
with fragments, spars and barrels, and to these many persons were clinging. Hugh had managed
to secure a piece of broken mast with spars attached, and with its aid he supported the mother
and child until an iron-bound cask, caught in the cordage, struck him heavily in the darkness.
The mother heard him groan, and his grasp loosened, "Quick!" he said hoarsely; "I cannot hold
you. I must fasten you with these floating ropes; I am badly hurt, but I think I can hold the
child."

He bound the ropes and rigging about her, and told her how she could best support herself;
then he was silent, but every now and then she heard him moaning as though in pain. How long
they floated in this way the mother could not tell; it seemed to her many hours,--it was, in
reality, less than four. They saw the lights of the Empire in the distance, but they could
not make themselves heard, although they shouted with all their strength. At the first glimmering
of dawn they discovered the hurricane deck not far distant, and Hugh said, "shout with all
your might. I cannot hold on much longer, my head is on fire!" So the mother exerted all her
strength in a piercing scream, and to her joy, an answering cry came back through the rain.
Hugh made an effort to steer the spars towards the floating deck, and those on board pushed
their raft towards him as well as they could. Still it was slow work, and as the dawn grew
brighter, the mother saw her preserver's haggard face, and the blood matted in his curly hair.
He did not speak, as, holding the baby in one arm, with the other he tried to guide the broken
mast, but his eyes were strangely glazed and the shadow of death was on his brow. They reached
the deck at last, and kind hands lifted them on board; it was only a raft, but it seemed a
support after the deep, dark water. The mother took her baby, and Hugh sank down at her feet.
Some one had a flask of brandy, and they succeeded in pouring a little through his clenched
teeth; after a moment or two he revived, sat up, looked about him, and murmured some incoherent
words. Then he tried to take out his little note-book, but it was wet, and the pencil was gone;
the captain gave him his own, and Hugh had scrawled a few words upon it, spoke to the mother
and smiled when she held up the child. But gradually he relapsed into unconsciousness, grew
more and more death-like, and, after breathing heavily for an hour, passed away without a struggle.
The mother and her child were safe; all the others on the floating deck were rescued,--but
Hugh, dear Hugh was dead!

Mr. Leslie had preceded the funeral cortege by a few moments; slowly he alighted from the carriage
and passed up the garden-walk towards the old stone house. His heart was heavy, and words of
comfort came not to his lips; in the presence of so great a sorrow he bowed his head in silence.
The friends who were in the house, came out to meet him, but no one spoke; they knew by his
face that the worst was true. They did not follow him into the presence of the mourners, but
going down to the gate, they waited there.

Mr. Leslie entered the sitting-room. "The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away," he said
solemnly. "Blessed be the name of the Lord. Hugh, our dear Hugh is dead."

Sibyl screamed and fell back fainting, the children burst into tears, and Aunt Faith knelt
down by her chair and hid her face in her hands. Bessie alone was calm. "Are they bringing
him home?" she asked, lifting her tearless eyes to Mr. Leslie's face.

"Yes Bessie; they will soon be here, now."

Without reply she rose, smoothed her disordered curls and arranged her dress. "Sibyl," she
said, "do not cry; Hugh never could bear to hear any one cry! Aunt Faith, Hugh is coming. Let
us go to meet him."

Her strange composure awed the violent grief of the others into silence, and they followed
her mechanically as she led the way to the piazza; involuntarily they all took the positions
of the previous evening, and, with Bessie standing alone in the centre, they waited for their dead.

The young men bore their burden up the walk slowly and solemnly, and behind followed a train
of sorrowing friends, two and two, thus rendering respect to the youth who had so suddenly
been taken from them in all the flush and vigor of early manhood. On came the sad procession,
and when the bearers reached the piazza, the friends fell back and stood with uncovered heads,
as up the steps, and under the faded triumphal arch, Hugh Warrington came home for the last
time to the old stone house.

At midnight Aunt Faith went softly into the parlor; a faint light shone from the chandelier
upon the still figure beneath, and Bessie with her face hidden in her hands, sat by its side.
She did not move as Aunt Faith came to her; she did not answer when Aunt Faith spoke to her;
she seemed almost as cold and rigid as the dead.

"Bessie dear, I have something to show you," said Aunt Faith, in a low tone; "I have a letter
to you from Hugh."

Bessie started and looked up; her face was pinched and colorless, and her dark eyes wild and
despairing.

"I have a letter to you, dear, from Hugh," repeated Aunt Faith; "he wrote it on board the floating
deck just before he died."

"Give it to me," said Bessie hoarsely, holding out her cold hands.

"In a moment, dear. Come upstairs with me and you shall see it," answered Aunt Faith, trying
to lead her away. But Bessie resisted wildly. "I will not go!" she said. "I shall stay with
Hugh until the last. Give me my letter! It is mine! You have no right to keep it. Give it to
me, I say!"

Alarmed at the expression of her eyes, Aunt Faith took out the captain's note-book, opened
it, and handed it to her niece. The words were scrawled across the page in irregular lines;
there seemed to be two paragraphs. The first was this: "Bessie, try to be good, dear; I love
you." The second: "I can say the two sentences, Aunt Faith,--I am saying them now.--Hugh."

The writing was trembling and indistinct, and the last words barely legible; the signature
was but a blur.

As Bessie deciphered the two messages, a sudden tremor shook her frame; then she read them
over again, speaking the words aloud as if to give them reality. "Oh Hugh! Hugh!" she cried,
"how can I live without you!"

With a quick movement, Aunt Faith turned up the gas and threw back the pall; then she put her
arms around the desolate girl and raised her to her feet. "Look at him, Bessie!" she said earnestly;
"look at dear Hugh, and think how hard it must have been for him to write those words, how
hard he must have tried, how much he must have loved you!"

