Mr. Tom Smallways was a green-grocer by trade and a gardener by disposition; his little wife
Jessica saw to the shop, and Heaven had planned him for a peaceful world. Unfortunately Heaven
had not planned a peaceful world for him. He lived in a world of obstinate and incessant change,
and in parts where its operations were unsparingly conspicuous. Vicissitude was in the very
soil he tilled; even his garden was upon a yearly tenancy, and overshadowed by a huge board
that proclaimed it not so much a garden as an eligible building site. He was horticulture under
notice to quit, the last patch of country in a district flooded by new and (other) things.
He did his best to console himself, to imagine matters near the turn of the tide.

"You'd hardly think it could keep on," he said.

Mr. Smallways' aged father, could remember Bun Hill as an idyllic Kentish village. He had driven
Sir Peter Bone until he was fifty and then he took to drink a little, and driving the station
bus, which lasted him until he was seventy-eight. Then he retired. He sat by the fireside,
a shrivelled, very, very old coachman, full charged with reminiscences, and ready for any careless
stranger. He could tell you of the vanished estate of Sir Peter Bone, long since cut up for
building, and how that magnate ruled the country-side when it was country-side, of shooting
and hunting, and of caches along the high road, of how "where the gas-works is" was a cricket-field,
and of the coming of the Crystal Palace. The Crystal Palace was six miles away from Bun Hill,
a great facade that glittered in the morning, and was a clear blue outline against the sky
in the afternoon, and of a night, a source of gratuitous fireworks for all the population of
Bun Hill. And then had come the railway, and then villas and villas, and then the gas-works
and the water-works, and a great, ugly sea of workmen's houses, and then drainage, and the
water vanished out of the Otterbourne and left it a dreadful ditch, and then a second railway
station, Bun Hill South, and more houses and more, more shops, more competition, plate-glass
shops, a school-board, rates, omnibuses, tramcars--going right away into London itself--bicycles,
motor-cars and then more motor-cars, a Carnegie library.

"You'd hardly think it could keep on," said Mr. Tom Smallways, growing up among these marvels.

But it kept on. Even from the first the green-grocer's shop which he had set up in one of the
smallest of the old surviving village houses in the tail of the High Street had a submerged
air, an air of hiding from something that was looking for it. When they had made up the pavement
of the High Street, they levelled that up so that one had to go down three steps into the shop.
Tom did his best to sell only his own excellent but limited range of produce; but Progress
came shoving things into his window, French artichokes and aubergines, foreign apples--apples
from the State of New York, apples from California, apples from Canada, apples from New Zealand,
"pretty lookin' fruit, but not what I should call English apples," said Tom--bananas, unfamiliar
nuts, grape fruits, mangoes.

The motor-cars that went by northward and southward grew more and more powerful and efficient,
whizzed faster and smelt worse, there appeared great clangorous petrol trolleys delivering
coal and parcels in the place of vanishing horse-vans, motor-omnibuses ousted the horse-omnibuses,
even the Kentish strawberries going Londonward in the night took to machinery and clattered
instead of creaking, and became affected in flavour by progress and petrol.

And then young Bert Smallways got a motor bicycle....

2

Bert, it is necessary to explain, was a progressive Smallways.

Nothing speaks more eloquently of the pitiless insistence of progress and expansion in our
time than that it should get into the Smallways blood. But there was something advanced and
enterprising about young Smallways before he was out of short frocks. He was lost for a whole
day before he was five, and nearly drowned in the reservoir of the new water-works before he
was seven. He had a real pistol taken away from him by a real policeman when he was ten. And
he learnt to smoke, not with pipes and brown paper and cane as Tom had done, but with a penny
packet of Boys of England American cigarettes. His language shocked his father before he was
twelve, and by that age, what with touting for parcels at the station and selling the Bun Hill
Weekly Express, he was making three shillings a week, or more, and spending it on Chips, Comic
Cuts, Ally Sloper's Half-holiday, cigarettes, and all the concomitants of a life of pleasure
and enlightenment. All of this without hindrance to his literary studies, which carried him
up to the seventh standard at an exceptionally early age. I mention these things so that you
may have no doubt at all concerning the sort of stuff Bert had in him.

He was six years younger than Tom, and for a time there was an attempt to utilise him in the
green-grocer's shop when Tom at twenty-one married Jessica--who was thirty, and had saved a
little money in service. But it was not Bert's forte to be utilised. He hated digging, and
when he was given a basket of stuff to deliver, a nomadic instinct arose irresistibly, it became
his pack and he did not seem to care how heavy it was nor where he took it, so long as he did
not take it to its destination. Glamour filled the world, and he strayed after it, basket and
all. So Tom took his goods out himself, and sought employers for Bert who did not know of this
strain of poetry in his nature. And Bert touched the fringe of a number of trades in succession--draper's
porter, chemist's boy, doctor's page, junior assistant gas-fitter, envelope addresser, milk-cart
assistant, golf caddie, and at last helper in a bicycle shop. Here, apparently, he found the
progressive quality his nature had craved. His employer was a pirate-souled young man named
Grubb, with a black-smeared face by day, and a music-hall side in the evening, who dreamt of
a patent lever chain; and it seemed to Bert that he was the perfect model of a gentleman of
spirit. He hired out quite the dirtiest and unsafest bicycles in the whole south of England,
and conducted the subsequent discussions with astonishing verve. Bert and he settled down very
well together. Bert lived in, became almost a trick rider--he could ride bicycles for miles
that would have come to pieces instantly under you or me--took to washing his face after business,
and spent his surplus money upon remarkable ties and collars, cigarettes, and shorthand classes
at the Bun Hill Institute.

He would go round to Tom at times, and look and talk so brilliantly that Tom and Jessie, who
both had a natural tendency to be respectful to anybody or anything, looked up to him immensely.

"He's a go-ahead chap, is Bert," said Tom. "He knows a thing or two."

"Let's hope he don't know too much," said Jessica, who had a fine sense of limitations.

"It's go-ahead Times," said Tom. "Noo petaters, and English at that; we'll be having 'em in
March if things go on as they do go. I never see such Times. See his tie last night?"

"It wasn't suited to him, Tom. It was a gentleman's tie. He wasn't up to it--not the rest of
him, It wasn't becoming"...

Then presently Bert got a cyclist's suit, cap, badge, and all; and to see him and Grubb going
down to Brighton (and back)--heads down, handle-bars down, backbones curved--was a revelation
in the possibilities of the Smallways blood.

Go-ahead Times!

