Take of Terpentine one pound, Wax six ounces, Oyle of Cammomile halfe a pint, put all these
together in a pan, and put to them a handfull of Cammomile, bruised, or cut very small, boyle
them upon a soft fire till they be well melted, and no more; then take it from the fire, and
strayne it into a clean pan, and so let it coole all night, and in the morning put it up for
your use. This Oyntment is good for any cut, wound, or breaking of the flesh, it eateth away
dead flesh, and ranklings, and doth heale againe quickly.

A Serecloath for all Aches.

Take Rossen one pound, Perrossen a quarter of a pound, as Mastick and Deer sewet the like,
Turpentine two ounces, Cloves bruised, one ounce, Mace bruised, two ounces, Saffron two drams,
boyle all these together in Oyle of Cammomile, and keep it for your use.

An Oyntment to be made at any time of the yeare, and is approved good, and hath helped old
Paines, Griefes, and Aches.

Take Steers Gall, Sallet Oyle and Aqua vita of each five spoon-fulls, boyle them together a
little, and therewith annoint the place pained, by the fire, and lay a warm cloath on it.

An Oyntment for the Sciatica.

Roaste a handfull or two of Onions, and take Neats-foot Oyle, and Aqua vita, of each a pint,
stamp, or rather boyle all these together to an Oyle, or Oyntment, and straine it into a gally
pot, and therewith annoynt the place grieved as hot as you can endure it, morning and evening.

A Water to drive away any Infection.

Take Draggons, Angelica, Rue, Wormwood, of each a handfull, chop them pretty small, and steep
them in a quart of White-wine, twenty four hours, then distill them in a Still, and reserve
the water in a glasse close stopped; give to the sick Patient six or seaven spoonfuls thereof
at a time fasting, and let him fast an houre and an halfe after, and keep himselfe very warme
in his bed, or otherwise.

An excellent Conservative for the stomach, helping digestion, warming the braine, and drying
the Rheumes.

Take two ounces of good old Conserve of red Roses, of chosen Methridate two drams, mingle them
well together, and eat thereof to bed-ward, the quantity of a hazell nut; this doth expell
all windinesse of the stomach, expelleth raw humours and venomous vapours, causeth good digestion,
dryeth the Rheume, strengthneth the memory and sight.

An Oyntmnt for any wound or sore.

Take two pound of Sheeps suet, or rather Deers suet, a pint of Candy Oyle, a quarter of a pound
of the newest and best Bees-wax, melt them together, stirring them well, and put to them one
ounce of the Oyle of Spike, and halfe an ounce of the Goldsmiths Boras, then heating them againe,
and stirring them all together, put it up in a gally pot, and keep it close stopped till you
have cause to use it; this is an approved Oyntment to cure any wounds or sores new or old.

An excellent Oyntment for any Bruise or Ache.

Take two pound of May Butter purified, powre it out from the dregs, and put to it of Broome
flowers and Elder flowers, of each a good handfull, so clean picked that you use nothing but
the leaves, mix them all together in a stone pot, and boyle them seaven or eight howres in
a kettell of water, being covered with a board, and kept downe with weights, keeping the kettell
alwayes full of water, with the help of another kettell of boyling water ready to fill up the
first as it wasteth, and when it waxeth somewhat coole, but not cold, straine the Oyntment
from the Hearbs, into a gally pot, and keep it for your use.

A Plaister for a Bile or Push.

Take a yolk of an Egg, and halfe a spoonfull of English Honey, mix them together with fine
wheat flower, and making it to a Plaister, apply it warme to the place grieved.

An approved good drink for the Pestilence.

Take six spoonfuls of Draggon-water, two good spoonfulls of Wine-Vineger, two penny weights
of English Saffron, and as much Treacle of Gene, as a little Walnut, dissolve all these together
upon the fire, and let the Patient drink it blood-warm, within twenty hours or sooner that
he is sick, and let him neither eat nor drink six howres after, but lye so warme in his bed,
that he may sweat, this expelleth the Disease from the heart, and if he be disposed to a sore,
it will streightwayes appeare, which you shall draw out with a Plaister of Flos Unguentorum.

For the Rheume in the gums or teeth.

Boyle Rosemary in faire water, with some ten or twelve Cloves, shut, and when it is boyled
take as much Claret wine as there is water left, and mingle with it, and make it boyle but
a little againe, then strayne it into some glasse, and wash the mouth there with morning and
evening; this will take away the Rheume in short time; and if you boyle a little Mastick. therewith,
it is the better.

For the Emroids.

Take Egremony and bruise it small, and then fry it with Sheep suet, and Honey, of each a like
quantity, and lay it as hot as you can suffer it to the Fundament, and it will heale very faire
and well.

An approved medicine for the Dropsey.

Take the Hearb called Bitter sweet, it grows in waters, and bears a purple flower, slice the
stalks, and boyle a pretty deale of them in White-wine, drink thereof first and last, morning
and evening, and it will cure the Dropsey.

A Powder for Wounds.

Take Orpiment, and Verdigreese, of each an ounce, of Vitriall burned till it be red, two ounces,
beat each of them by it selfe in a brasen Morter, as small as flower, then mingle them all
together, that they appear all as one, and keep it in bagges of leather, well bound, for it
will last seaven years with the same vertue, and it is called Powder peerlesse, it hath no
peer for working in Chyrurgery, for put of this powder in a wound where is dead flesh, and
lay scrap't lint about it, and a Plainer of Disklosions next upon it, and it will heale it.

An approved Medicine for the Green sicknesse.

Take a quart of Clarret wine, one pound of Currants, and a handfull of young Rosemary crops,
and halfe an ounce of Mace, seeth these to a pint, and let the Patient drink thereof three
spoonfulls at a time, morning and evening, and eat some of the Currants also after.

A Medicine for a Pleurisie, Stitch, or Winde, offending in any part of the Body.

Gather the young shutes of Oake, after the fall of a Wood, and picking out the tenderest and
softest of them, especially those which look redest, bind them up together in a wet paper,
and roste them in hot embers, as you doe a Warden, whereby they will dry to powder, of which
powder let the Patient take a spoonfull in a little Posset Ale, or Beer, warmed, in the morning,
fasting after it two hours, or more, if he be able, doing the like about three after noon,
and two hours after supper, four or five dayes together, which thus done in the beginning of
the Disease, is by often experiments found to cure such windy paines in the side, stomach,
or other parts of the body; you may dry them also in a dish, in an Oven after the bread is
drawn; you shall doe well to gather enough of them in the Spring, and make good store of the
powder then, to keep for all the year following.

An approved Medicine for the Gout in the feet.

Take an Oxes paunch new killed, and warm out of the belly, about the latter end of May, or
beginning of June, make two holes therein, and put in your feet, and lay store of warm cloaths
about it, to keep it warm so long as can be. Use this three or four dayes together, for three
weeks or a moneth, whether you have the fit or paine of the Gout, at that time or no, so you
have had it at any time before. This hath cured divers persons, that they have never been troubled
with it againe.

For one that cannot make water.

Take the white strings of Filmy roots, of Primroses wash them very clean, and boyle of them
halfe a handfull, in a pint of Beer or White-wine, till halfe be consumed, then straine it
through a clean cloath, and drink thereof a quarter of a pint, somewhat warme, morning and
evening, for three dayes, it will purge away all viscous or obstructions stopping the passage
of the water, probatum.

To kill the Ring worme, and heat thereof.

Take a quart of White wine vineger, boyle therein of Woodbine leaves, Sage, and Plantaine of
each one handfull, of white Coperas, one pound, of Allum as much as an Egge; when it is boyled
to halfe a pint, straine out the liquor, and therewith wash the soare as hard as you can suffer it.

To make a Water for all Wounds and Cankers.

Take a handfull of red Sage leaves, a handfull of Selandine, as much Woodbine leaves, then
take a gallon of Conduict water, and put the hearbs in it, and let them boyle to a pottell,
and then strayning the Hearbs through a strainer, take the liquor and set it over the fire
againe, and take a pint of English Honey, a good handfull of Roche Allum, as much of white
Copperas tinne beaten, a penny worth of Graines bruised, and let them boyle all together three
or four warms, and then let the scum be taken off with a feather, and when it is cold put it
in an earthen pot or bottell, so as it may be kept close; and for an old Wound take of the
thinnest, and for a green Wound, of the thickest, and having dressed them with this Water,
cover the soare either with Veale, or Mutton, and skin it with Dock leaves.

For a Swelling that cometh suddenly in mans Limbs.

Take Harts tongue, Cherfoyle, and cut them small, and then take dreggs of Ale, and Wheat Branne,
and Sheeps tallow molten, and doe all in a pot, and seeth them till they be thick, and then
make a Plaister, and lay it to the swelling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Apricocks.

To dry Apricocks.

Take them when they be ripe, stone them, and pare off their rindes very thin, then take halfe
as much Sugar as they weigh, finely beaten, and lay them with that Sugar into a silver or earthen
dish, laying first a lay of Sugar, and then of Fruit, and let them stand so all night, and
in the morning the Sugar will be all melted, then put them into a Skillet, and boyle them apace,
scumming them well, and as soon as they grow tender take them off from the fire, and let them
stand two dayes in the Syrupe, then take them out, and lay them on a fine plate, and so dry
them in a Stove.

Clear Cakes of Quinces, or Apricocks.

Take of the best Sugar finely beaten and searced, one pound, to a pound of Quinces, or Apricocks,
set your Sugar upon a chafin-dish of coales, and dry it above halfe an houre, then cooling
it, stir into it a little Musk and Ambergreese finely beaten, and powdered, then pare your
Quinces, and boyle them in faire water whole, till they be tender and not covering them for
so they will be white; then take them, and scrape off all the Quince to the coare, into a silver
dish, and boyle it therein till it grow dry, which you shall perceive by the rising of it up,
when it is thus well dryed, take it off, let it coole, and strew on the Sugar, letting some
other to strew it, till it be all throughly wrought in, then lay it out on glasses, plates,
or prints of Flowers, or letters, an inch thick, or lesse as you please.

The best way to Preserve Apricocks

Take the weight of your Apricocks, what quantity soever you mind to use, in Sugar finely beaten,
pare and stone the Apricocks, and lay them in the Sugar, in your preserving pan all night,
and in the morning set them upon hot embers till the Sugar be all melted, then let them stand,
and scald an hour, then take them off the fire, and let them stand in that Syrupe two dayes,
and then boyle them softly till they be tender and well coloured, and after that when they
be cold put them up in glasses or pots, which you please.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Lillies.

The use of Oyle of Lillies.

Oyle of Lillies is good to supple, mollifie, and stretch sinews that be shrunk, it is good
to annoynt the sides and veines in the fits of the Stone.

To Candy all kinde of Flowers as they grow, with their stalks on.

Take the Flowers, and cut the stalks somewhat short, then take one pound of the whitest and
hardest Sugar you can get, put to it eight spoonfulls of Rose water, and boyle it till it will
roule between your fingers and your thumb, then take it from the fire, coole it with a stick,
and as it waxeth cold, dip in all your Flowers, and taking them out againe suddenly, lay them
one by one on the bottome of a Sive; then turne a joyned stoole with the feet upwards, set
the sive on the feet thereof, cover it with a faire linnen cloath, and set a chafin-dish of
coales in the middest of the stoole underneath the five, and the heat thereof will run up to
the sive, and dry your Candy presently; then box them up, and they will keep all the year,
and look very pleasantly.

To make the Rock Candies upon all Spices, Flowers, and Roots.

Take two pound of Barbary Sugar, Clarifie it with a pint of water, and the whites of two Eggs,
then boyle it in a posnet to the height of Manus Christi, then put it into an earthen Pipkin
and therewith the things that you will Candy, as Cinamon, Ginger, Nutmegs, Rose buds, Marigolds,
Eringo roots, &c. cover it, and stop it close with clay or paste, then put it into a Still,
with a leasurely fire under it, for the space of three dayes and three nights, then open the
pot, and if the Candy begin to come, keep it unstopped for the space of three or four dayes
more, and then leaving the Syrupe, take out the Candy, lay it on a Wyer grate, and put it in
an Oven after the bread is drawne, and there let it remaine one night, and your Candy will
dry. This is the best way for rock Candy, making so small a quantity.

The Candy Sucket for green Ginger, Lettice, Flowers.

Whatsoever you have Preserved, either Hearbs, Fruits, or Flowers, take them out of the Syrupe,
and wash them in warm water, and dry them well, then boyle the Sugar to the height of Candy,
for Flowers, and draw them through it, then lay them on the bottome of a Sive, dry them before
the fire, and when they are enough, box them for your use. This is that the Comfet-makers use
and call Sucket Candy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Grapes.

Syrupe Gresta, or a Syrupe of Unripe Grapes.

Take a good basket full of unripe Grapes, set them three dayes in a vessel after they be gathered,
stamp them, and straine out the juice out of them, take thereof six quarts, boyle it with a
soft fire till the third part be consumed then four quarts will remaine, let that run through
a woollen bagge, and stand till it be clear in it selfe, then take of the clearest of it, seven
pints, put thereto five pound of Clarified Sugar, boyle them together to the thicknesse of
a Syrupe, and keep it in a glasse; it is good for a perbreaking stomach, proceeding of Choller,
and for a swelling stomach, it taketh away thirst and drynesse, and chollerick Agues, it is
of great comfort to the stomach of Women being with child, it is a preservative against all
manner of Venome, and against the Pestilence.

       *       *       *       *       *

*OF PURGES.*

A Purge to drive out the French Pox, before you use the Oyntment.

Take halfe a pint of good Aqua vitæ, one ounce of Treacle of Gene, one quarter of an ounce
of Spermacæti, boyle all these together on a soft fire halfe a quarter of an hour, and let
the Patient drink this as warme as he can, and lye downe in his bed, and sweat, and if any
of the Disease be in his body, this will bring it forth, and bring him to an easie loosnesse;
this is thought the best and surest of all other Cures for this infirmity.

The Oyntment for the French Pox.

Take Barrowes grease well tryed from the filmes, beat it in a Morter till it be small and fine,
put thereto of Lethargy one ounce, of Mastick in fine powder, two ounces, of Olibanum in powder,
one ounce, of Oyle of Spike one ounce, Oyle of Paliolum one ounce, of Terpentine one quarter
of a pound, beat all these together into a perfect Oyntment, and therewith annoynt these places.

What place to annoynt for the French Pox.

The principall bone in the Nape of the Neck, without the shoulder places, taking heed it come
not neer the channell bone, for then it will make the throat swell, else not, the elbowes on
both sides, the hip bones, the share, the knees, the hammes, and the ankles; if the Patient
have no Ache, annoynt not these places, but only the sores till they be whole; if there be
any knobs lying in the flesh, as many have, annoynt them often, and lay lint upon them, and
brown paper upon the lint, and keep the Patient close out of the aire, and this used will make
him whole in ten dayes by the grace of God.

For a paine in the ears, or deafnesse.

Take a hot loafe, of the bignesse of a Bakers penny loaf, and pull or cut it in two in the
middest, and lay the middle of the crummy side to the middest, or to the hole of the ear, or
ears pained, as hot as they may be endured, and so bind them fast together on all night, and
then if you find any pain in either or both ears, or any noyse, put into the pained ear or
ears, a drop of Aqua vitæ, in each, and then againe binding more hot bread to them, walk a
little while, and after goe to bed; this done three or four dayes together, hath taken away
the paine, hearing noyse in the ears, and much eased the deafnesse, and dullnesse of and in many.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Marigolds.

A very good Plaister to heale and dry up a Sore or Cut Suddenly.

Take of Marigold leaves, Porret blades or leaves, and Housleke, of all two handfulls, beat
them all very small in a Morter, and put to them the whites of two new layd Eggs, and beat
them very well till they be throughly incorporated with the Eggs, and apply this till you be
well, renew it every day.

The use of Conserve of Marigolds.

Conserve of Marigolds taken fasting in the morning, is good for Melancholy, cureth the trembling
and shaking of the heart, is good to be used against the Plague, and Corruption of the Aire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Cherries.

A way to dry Cherries.

Take three quarters of a pound of Sugar, and a pound of Cherries, their stalks and stones taken
from them, then put a spoonfull of clean water in the Skillet, and so lay a lay of Cherries
and another of Sugar, till your quantity be out, then set them on the fire, and boyle them
as fast as conveniently you can, now and then shaking them about the Skillet, for fear of burning,
and when you think they are enough, and clear, then take them off the fire, and let them stand
till they be halfe cold, then take them out as clear from the Syrupe as you can, and lay them
one by one upon sheets of glasse, setting them either abroad in the sunne, or in a window where
the sunne may continually be upon them. If they dry not so fast as you would have them, then
in the turning scrape some loafe Sugar finely upon them, but add no greater heat then the sunne
will afford, which will be sufficient if they be well tended, and let no dew fall on them by
any means, but in the evening set them in some warm Cupboard.

How to Preserve Cherries.

Take the Cherries when they be new gathered off the Tree, being full ripe, put them to the
bottome of your Preserving pan, weighing to every pound of Cherries, one pound of sugar, then
throw some of the sugar upon the Cherries, and set them on a very quick fire, and as they boyle
throw on the rest of the sugar, till the Syrupe be thick enough, then take them out, and put
them in a gally pot while they are warm; you may if you will, put two or three spoonfulls of
Rose-water to them:

To make all manner of Fruit Tarts.

You must boyle your Fruit, whether it be Apple, Cherry, Peach, Damson, Peare, Mulberry, or
Codling, in faire water, and when they be boyled enough, put them into a bowle, and bruise
them with a ladle, and when they be cold straine them, and put in red wine, or Clarret wine,
and so season it with sugar, cinamon, and ginger.

To make a close Tart of Cherries.

Take out the stones, and lay them as whole as you can in a Charger, and put Mustard, Cinamon,
and Sugar, into them, and lay them into a Tart whole, and close them, then let them stand three
quarters of an hour in the Oven, and then make a Syrupe of Muskadine, and Damask water and
sugar, and so serve it.

To make fine Pippin Tarts.

Quarter, pare, core, and stew your Pippins in a Pipkin, upon very hot embers, close covered,
a whole day, for they must stew softly, then put to them some whole Cinamon, six Cloves, and
sugar enough to make them sweet, and some Rose-water, and when they are stewed enough, take
them off the fire, and take all the Spice from them, and break them small like Marmalade, having
your Coffins ready made, not above an inch deep, fill them with it, and lay on a very thin
cover of puffe paste, close and fit, so bake them, serve them in cold, but you must take heed
you doe not over-bake them.

To make a Tart of Butter and Eggs.

Take the yolks of sixteene Eggs well parted from the whites, three quarters of a pound of Butter
well Clarified, and straine it twice or thrice in a faire strainer, seasoned with sugar and
a little Rose water, wherein Spinage first a little boyled, hath been strained, to make it
green; be sure your paste be well made, and whole, and so bake it up, and serve it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Goose-Berries.

To keep Goose-Berries.

Take a handfull or two of the worser of your Goose-Berries, cut off their stalks and heads,
and boyle them all to pieces, in a pottell of water, putting into the boyling thereof, halfe
a quarter of sugar, then take the liquor, straine it through a haire strainer, and while it
cooleth cut off the stalks and heads of the fairest Goose-Berries, being very carefull you
cut not the skin of them above or below; put them into a gally pot, and pour the liquor in
after them.

Purslaine must be used as you doe the Goose-Berries.

The best way to Preserve Goose-Berries.

Gather them with their stalks on, cut off their heads, and stone them, then put them in scalding
water, and let them stand therein covered a quarter of an hour, then take their weight in sugar
finely beaten, and laying first a lay of sugar, then one of your Goose-Berries, in your Preserving
Skillet or pan, till all be in, putting in for every pound of Goose-Berries, six spoonfulls
of water, set them on the embers till the sugar be melted, then boyle them up as fast as you
can, till the Syrupe be thick enough, and cold, and then put them up. This way serves also
for Respasses and Mulberries.

       *     *     *     *     *

Of Plums.

The best way to dry Plums.

Take your Plums when they are full growne, with the stalks on them, but yet green, split them
on the one side, and put them in hot water, but not too hot, and so let them stand three or
four hours, then to a spoonfull of them, take three quarters of a pound of sugar, beaten very
fine, and eight spoonfulls of water to every pound, and set them on hot embers till the sugar
be melted, and after that boyle them till they be very tender, letting them stand in that Syrupe
three dayes to plump them; then take them out, wash the Syrupe from them with warm water, and
wipe them with a fine linnen cloath, very dry, and lay them on plates, and set them to dry
in a Stove, for if you dry them in an Oven, they will be tough.

To Preserve Damsons.

Take Damsons before they be full ripe, but new gathered off the Tree, allow to every pound
of them a pound of sugar, put a little Rose-water to them, and set them in the bottome of your
pan, one by one, boyle them with a soft fire, and as they seeth strew your sugar upon them,
and let them boyle till the Syrupe be thick enough, then while the Syrupe is yet warme, take
the Plums out, and put them in a gally pot, Syrupe and all.

To Preserve Bullasses as green as grasse.

Take your Bullasses, as new gathered as you can, wipe them with a cloath, and prick them with
a knife, and quaddle them in two waters, close covered, then take a pound of Clarified sugar,
and a pint of Apple water, boyle them well together (keeping them well scummed) unto a Syrupe,
and when your Bullases are well dript from the water, put them into the Syrupe, and warm them
three or four times at the least, at the last warming take them up, and set them a dropping
from the Syrupe, and boyle the Syrupe a little by it selfe, till it come to a jelly, and then
between hot and cold put them up to keep for all the year.

To Preserve Pares, Pare-Plums, Plums.

First take two pound and a halfe of fine sugar, and beat it small, and put it into a pretty
brasse pot, with twenty spoonfulls of Rose-water, and when it boyleth skim it clean, then take
it off the fire, and let it stand while it be almost cold, then take two pound of Pare-plums,
and wipe them upon a faire cloath, and put them into your Syrupe when it is almost cold, and
so set them upon the fire againe, and let them boyle as softly as you can, for when they are
boyled enough, the kernels will be yellow, then take them up, but let your Syrupe boyle till
it be thick; then put your Plums upon the fire againe, and let them boyle a walme or two, so
take them from the fire, and let them stand in the vessell all night, and in the morning put
them into your pot or glasse, and cover them close.

       *     *     *     *     *

Of Medlers.

To Preserve Medlers.

Take the fairest Medlers you can get, but let them not be too ripe, then set on faire water
on the fire, and when it boyleth put in your Medlers, and let them boyle till they be somewhat
soft, then while they are hot pill them, cut off their crowns, and take out their stones, then
take to every pound of Medlers, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pint
of Rose water, seeth your Syrupe, scumming it clean, then put in your Medlers one by one, the
stalks downward, when your Syrupe is somewhat coole then set them on the fire againe, let them
boyle softly till the Syrupe be enough, then put in a few Cloves and a little Cinamon, and
so putting them up in pots reserve them for your use.

To make a Tart of Medlers.

Take Medlers that be rotten, and stamp them, and set them upon a chafin dish with coales, and
beat in two yolks of Eggs, boyling till it be somewhat thick, then season it with Sugar, Cinamon,
and Ginger, and lay it in paste.

       *     *     *     *     *

Of Cucumbers.

How to keep Cucumbers.

Take a kettle big enough for your use, halfe full of water, make it brackish with salt, boyle
therein ten or twenty Cucumbers, cut in halves, then take the raw Cucumbers, being somewhat
little, and put them into the vessell wherein you will keep them, and when your liquor is cold
straine so much of it into them, as may keep the Cucumbers alwayes covered.

To keep boyled Cucumbers.

Take a kettle of water, put salt to it, boyle it well, then take your raw Cucumbers, put them
into it, and keep them with turning up and downe very softly, till they be as it were per-boyled,
then take them out, and lay them aside till they be cold, then put them up in the vessel you
will keep them in, and when the liquor is cold, straine it into them, till they be all covered.

To Pickle Cucumbers to keep all the yeare.

Pare a good quantity of the rindes of Cucumbers, and boyle them in a quart of running water,
and a pint of wine Vineger, with a handfull of salt, till they be soft, then letting them stand
till the liquor be quite cold, pour out the liquor from the rinds, into some little barrel,
earthen pot, or other vessel, that may be close stopped, and put as many of the youngest Cucumbers
you can gather, therein, as the liquor will cover, and so keep them close covered, that no
winde come to them, to use all the year till they have new; if your Cucumbers be great, 'tis
best to boyle them in the liquor till they be soft.

       *       *       *       *       *

*OF COOKERY.*

To make Snow.

Take a quart of thick Creame, and five or six whites of Eggs, a sauser full of sugar finely
beaten, and as much Rose water, beat them all together, and always as it riseth take it out
with a spoon, then take a loaf of Bread, cut away the crust, set it in a platter, and a great
Rosemary bush in the middest of it, then lay your Snow with a Spoon upon the Rosemary, and
so serve it.

To make Spiced Bread.

Take two pound of Manchet paste, sweet Butter halfe a pound, Currants halfe a pound, sugar
a quarter, and a little Mace, if you will put in any, and make it in a loafe, and bake it in
an Oven, no hotter then for Manchet.

To make Craknels.

Take five or six pints of the finest Wheat flower you can get, to which you must put in a spoonfull
(and not above) of good Yest, then mingle it well with Butter, cream, Rose-water, and sugar,
finely beaten, and working it well into paste, make it after what forme you will, and bake it.

To make Veale-tooh's, or Olives.

Take the Kidney of a line of Veale roasted, with a good deale of the fat, and a little of the
flesh, mingle it very small, and put to it two Eggs, one Nutmeg finely grated, a good quantity
of sugar, a few Currants, a little salt, stir them well together, and make them into the form
of little Pasties, and fry them in a pan with sweet Butter.

To pickle Oysters.

Take a peck of the greatest Oysters, open them, and put the liquor that comes from them saved
by it selfe, to as much White-wine, and boyle it with a pound of Pepper bruised, two or three
spoonfulls of large Mace, and a handfull of salt, till the liquor begin to waste away, then
put in your Oysters, and plump them, and take them off the fire till they be cold, and so put
them up in little barrels very close.

To make very fine Sausages.

Take four pound and a halfe of Porck, chop it small, and put to it three pound of Beefe sewet,
and chop them small together, then put to them a handfull of Sage, finely shred, one ounce
of Pepper, one ounce of Mace, two ounces of Cloves, a good deale of salt, eight Eggs very well
beaten before you put them in, then work them well with your hand, till they be throughly mingled,
and then fill them up. Some like not the Eggs in them, it is not amisse therefore to leave
them out.

To cast all kind of Sugar works into Moulds.

Take one pound of Barabry Sugar, Clarifie it with the white of an Egg, boyle it till it will
roule between your finger and your thumb, then cast it into your standing Moulds, being watered
two hours before in cold water, take it out and gild them to garnish a Marchpine with them
at your pleasure.

To make all kinde of turned works in fruitage, hollow.

Take the strongest bodyed Sugar you can get, boyle it to the height of Manus Christi, take
your stone, or rather pewter moulds, being made in three pieces; tye the two great pieces together
with Inkle, then poure in your Sugar being highly boyled, turne it round about your head apace,
and so your fruitage will be hollow, whether it be Orange, or Lemmon, or whatsoever your Mould
doth cast, after they be cast you must colour them after their naturall colours.

To make a Sallet of all kinds of Hearbs.

Take your Hearbs and pick them very fine in faire water, and pick your Flowers by themselves,
and wash them clean, then swing them in a strayner, and when you put them into a dish mingle
them with Cucumbers or Lemmons pared and sliced, also scrape sugar, and put in Vineger and
Oyle, then spread the Flowers on the top of the sallet, and with every sort of the aforesaid
things garnish the dish about, then take Eggs boyled hard, and lay about the dish and upon
the Sallet.

To make Fritter-stuffe

Take fine flower, and three or four Eggs, and put into the flower, and a piece of Butter, and
let them boyle all together in a dish or chaffer, and put in sugar, cinamon, ginger, and rose
water, and in the boyling put in a little grated Bread, to make it big, then put it into a
dish, and beat it well together, and so put it into your mould, and fry it with clarified Butter,
but your Butter may not be too hot, nor too cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINIS.