[Despite the laudable endeavours of "The Society for the Protection of Birds," the harpy Fashion
appears still, and even increasingly, to make endless holocausts of small fowl for the furnishing
forth of "feather trimmings" for the fair sex. We are told that to obtain the delicate and
beautiful spiral plume called the "Osprey," the old birds "are killed off in scores, while
employed in feeding their young, who are left to starve to death in their nests by hundreds."
Their dying cries are described as "heartrending." But they evidently do not rend the hearts
of our fashionable ladies, or induce them to rend their much-beplumed garments. Thirty thousand
black partridges have been killed in certain Indian provinces in a few days' time to supply
the European demand for their skins. One dealer in London is said to have received, as a single
consignment, 32,000 dead humming-birds, 80,000 aquatic birds, and 800,000 pairs of wings. We
are told too that often "after the birds are shot down, the wings are wrenched off during life,
and the mangled bird is left to die slowly of wounds, thirst, and starvation."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ART IN THE CITY.

(A SKETCH IN THE CORPORATION GALLERY AT THE GUILDHALL.)

    The Gallery is crowded, and there is the peculiar buzz in the
    air that denotes popular interest and curiosity. The majority
    of the visitors are of the feminine sex, and appear to have
    come up from semi-detached villas in the less fashionable
    suburbs; but there is also a sprinkling of smart and Superior
    Persons, prosperous City Merchants, who regard pictures with
    respect, as a paying investment, young Commercial Men, whose
    feeling for Art is not precisely passionate, but who have
    turned in to pass the time, and because the Exhibition is
    gratuitous, earnest Youths with long hair, soft hats, and
    caped ulsters, &c., &c.

BEFORE DELAROCHE'S "DROWNED MARTYR."

First Villa Resident (appreciatively). Such a death-like expression, isn't it?

Second Ditto, Ditto. Yes, indeed! And how beautifully her halo's done!

Third Ditto, Ditto. Will those two men on the bank be the executioners, should you think?

Fourth Ditto, Ditto (doubtfully). It says in the Catalogue that they're two Christians.

An Intelligent Child. Then why don't they jump in and pull her out, Mother? [The Child is reproved.

A Languid Young Lady. Is that intended for Opheliah?

    [The rest regard her with shocked disapproval, mingled with
    pity, before passing on.

BEFORE HOLL'S "FATHERLESS FAMILY."

First Matter-of-Fact Person. They're just come back from the funeral, I expect.

Second Ditto, Ditto. I shouldn't wonder. (Feels bound to show that she too can be observant.)
Yes, they're all in mourning--even the servant. Do you see the black ribbon in her cap? I do
like that.

An Irrelevant Person. It's just a little melancholy, though, don't you think?--which reminds
me--how much did you say that jet trimming was a yard--nine pence three-farthings?

Her Friend. Nine pence halfpenny at the shop in St. Paul's Churchyard. The child has her frock
open at the top behind, you see--evidently a poor family!

The I.P. Yes, and the workbasket with the reels of cotton and all. (Looking suddenly down.)
Don't you call this a handsome carpet?

A Frivolous Frenchman (fresh from 'The Casual Ward' and 'The Martyr' to his companion). Tenez,
mon cher, encore des choses gaies!

    [He passes on with a shrug.]

A Good Young Man with a train of three Maiden Aunts in tow (halting them before a picture of
SIR J. NOEL PATON's). Now you ought to look at this one.

    [They inspect it with docility. It represents a Knight in
    armour riding through a forest and surrounded by seductive
    Wood-nymphs.

First Maiden Aunt. Is that a guitar one of those girls is playing, or what?

Second Ditto, Ditto. A mandolin more likely; it looks like mother-o'-pearl--is it supposed
to be King ARTHUR, and are they fairies or angels, ROBERT?

The G.Y.M. (a little at sea himself). "Oskold and the Ellé-maids," the title is.

Third Aunt. Scolding the Elements! Who's scolding them, ROBERT?

Robert (in her ear). "Oskold and the Ellé-maids!" it's a Scandinavian legend, Aunt TABITHA,

Aunt Tabitha (severely). Then it's a pity they can't find better subjects to paint, in my opinion!
(They move on to Mr. PETTIE's "Musician.") Dear me, that young man looks dreadfully poorly,
to be sure!

Robert (loudly). He's not poorly, Aunt; he's a Musician--he's supposed to be (quoting from
Catalogue) "thinking out a composition, imagining an orchestral effect, with the occasional
help of an organ."

First Aunt. I see the organ plain enough--but where's the orchestral effect?

Robert. Well, you wouldn't see that, you know, he only imagines it.

Second Aunt. Oh, yes, I see. Subject to delusions, poor man! I thought he looked as if he wanted
someone to look after him.

First Loyal Old Lady (reading from Catalogue). "No. 35. 'Lent by Her Majesty the QUEEN.'"

Second Ditto, Ditto. Lent by HER MAJESTY, my dear! Oh, I don't want to miss that--which is
it--where?

    [She prepares herself to regard it with a special and
    reverent interest.

AMONG THE PRE-RAPHAELITE PAINTERS.

Matter-of-Fact Person (to her Irrelevant Friend). Here's a Millais, you see. Ophelia drowning
herself.

The Irrelevant Friend (who doesn't approve of suicide). Yes, dear, very peculiar--but I don't
quite like it, I must say. Do you remember whether I told SARAH to put out the fiddle-pattern
forks and the best cruetstand before I came away? Dear Mr. HOMERTON is coming in to supper
to-night, and I want everything to be nice for him.

The Good Young Man. There's Ophelia again, you see. (Searches for an appropriate remark.) She--ah--evidently
understood the art of natation.

First Aunt. She looks almost too comfortable in the water, I think. Her mouth's open, as if
she was singing.

Second Aunt (extenuatingly). Yes--but those wild roses are very naturally done--and so are
her teeth.

A Discriminating Person. I like it all but the figure.

A Well-informed Person. There's the "Dream of Dante," d'ye see? No mistaking the figure of
DANTE. Here he is, down below, having his dream--that's the dream in that cloud--and up above
you get the dream done life-size--queer sort of idea, isn't it?

A Ponderous Person (finding himself in front of "The Vale of Rest"). Ha!--what are those two
Nuns up to?

His Companion. Digging their own graves, I think.

The Pond. P. (with a supreme mental effort). Oh, Cremation, eh?

    [Goes out, conceiving that he has sacrificed at the shrine of
    Art sufficiently for one afternoon.

Young Discount (to Young TURNOVER--before "Claudio and Isabella"). Something out of SHAKSPEARE
here, you see.

Young Turnover. Yairss. (Giving Claudio a perfunctory attention.) Wants his hair raking, don't
he? Not much in my line, this sort of subject.

Young Disc. Nor yet mine--takes too much time making it out, y'know. This ain't bad--"Venetian
Washerwomen"--is that the way they get up linen over there?

Young Turn. (who has "done" Italy) Pretty much. (By way of excuse for them.) They're very al
fresco out in those parts, y' know. Here's a Market-place in Italy, next to it. Yes, that's
just like they are. They bring out all those old umbrellas and stalls and baskets twice a-week,
and clear 'em all off again next day, so that you'd hardly know they'd been there!

Young Disc. (intelligently). I see. After Yarmouth style.

Young Turn. Well, something that way--only rather different style, y' know.

BEFORE "THE HUGUENOT."

An Appreciative Lady. Ah! yes, it is wonderfully painted! Isn't it lovely the way that figured
silk is done? You can hardly tell it isn't real, and the plush coat he's wearing; such an exquisite
shade of violet, and the ivy-leaves, and the nasturtiums and the old red brick; yes, it's very
beautiful--and yet, do you know, (meditatively) I almost think it's prettier in the engravings!

BEFORE THE BURNE-JONESES.

A Fiancé. This is the "Wheel of Fortune," EMILY, you see. (Reads.) "Sad, but inexorable, the
fateful figure turns the wheel. The sceptred King, once uppermost, is now beneath his Slave
... while beneath the King is seen the laurelled head of the Poet."

His Fiancée (who would be charming if she would not try--against Nature--to be funny.) It's
a kind of giddy-go-round then, I suppose; or is it BURNE-JONES's idea of a revolution--don't
you see--revolving?

Fiancé (who makes a practice--even already--of discouraging these sallies.) It's only an allegorical
way of representing that the Slave's turn has come to triumph.

Fiancée. Well, I don't see that he has much to triumph about--he's tied on like the rest of
them, and it must be just as uncomfortable on the top of that wheel as the bottom.

    [Her Fiancé recognises that allegory is thrown away upon
    her, and proposes to take her into the Hall and show her Gog
    and Magog.

A Niece (to an Impenetrable Relative--whom she plants, like a heavy piece of ordnance, in front
of a particular canvas). There, Aunt, what do you think of that now?

The Aunt (after solemnly staring at it with a conscientious effort to take it in.) Well, my
dear, I must say it--it's very 'ighly varnished. [She is taken home as hopeless.

       *       *       *       *       *

COURT CARDS.

A splendid hand is just now held by Mr. ARTHUR CHUDLEIGH, Sole Lessee and Manager of the Court
Theatre. Full of trumps, honours and odd tricks. A perfect entertainment in three pieces. You
pay your money and you take your choice. You can come in at 8:15 and see The New Sub, by SEYMOUR
HICKS (Brayvo, 'ICKS! and may your success be Hickstraordinary!) or at 9:15 for W.S. GILBERT's
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, or at 10 for A Pantomime Rehearsal, which, as I remarked long
ago on seeing it for the first time, might last for ever if only judiciously refreshed, say
once in every three months, and on this plan it might continue until it should be played in
1992 by the great-great-grandchildren of the members of the present company.

There is one charming line in the bill--a bill which, on account of its colour, must be "taken
as red"--not to be missed by visitors. It comes immediately after the cast of The New Sub;
it is this,--"The Uniforms by Messrs. Nathan, Coventry Street." It has a line all to itself,
which is, most appropriately, "a thin red line." Now the officers in the programme are given
as belonging to the "----shire Regiment" i.e., Blankshire Regiment, but as they are all wearing
the Nathan uniform, why not describe them as officers of the Nathanshire Regiment? Perhaps
such a title might be more suggestive of Sheriff's Officers than of those belonging to Her
Majesty's Army; yet, as these gallant Dramatis Personæ are avowedly wearing NATHAN's uniform
(which may they never, never disgrace!) why should they not bear the proud title of "The First
Royal Coventry Street Costumiers"? Let those most concerned see to it: our advice is gratis,
and, at that price, valuable.

9:15. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Excellent piece of genuine fun. If Mr. W.S. GILBERT could
be induced to add to it, I am sure it would stand an extension of ten minutes to allow Hamlet
to return and have a grand combat with the King, and then for all the characters to be poisoned
by mistake, and so to end happily.

To everyone who does not look upon SHAKSPEARE's work as "Holy Writ," the question must have
occurred, why did the Divine WILLIAMS put his excellent rules and regulations for play-actors
into the mouth of a noble amateur addressing distinguished members of "the Profession"? Imagine
some royal or noble personage telling HENRY IRVING how to play Cardinal Wolsey, or instructing
Sir FREDERICK LEIGHTON in painting, or telling J.L. TOOLE how to "get his laughs"! Probably
actor and artist would listen in courtier-like silence to the illustrious lecturer, just as
SHAKSPEARE makes his players behave when Hamlet is favouring them with his views on the histrionic
art. In Mr. GILBERT's skit the leading Player makes a neat retort, and completely shuts up
Hamlet,--who, being mad, deserves to be "shut up,"--much to the delight of King and Court.
But, the question remains, why did SHAKSPEARE ever put this speech to the players in Hamlet's
mouth? My theory is, that he did not want BURBAGE to play the part, but couldn't help himself,
and so, out of pure revenge, he introduced this speech in which he makes BURBAGE himself condemn
all his own faults. Later on the Queen describes Hamlet as "fat and scant of breath," which
certainly was not the author's ideal Prince of Denmark; and this is evidently interpolated
as "a nasty one" for BURBAGE. At the Court Theatre the skit is capitally played all round,
though I confess I should have preferred seeing Hamlet made up as a sort of fat and flabby
Chadband puffing and wheezing,--an expression, by the way, that suggests another excellent
performer in this part, namely, Mr. HERMANN WHEEZIN', who might be induced to appear after
a lot of "puffin'."

Finally, A Pantomime Rehearsal is still about the very funniest thing to be seen in any London
Theatre at the present time. The ladies are, all of them, as the old gentleman in Pink Dominoes
used to say, "Pretty dears!" They dance charmingly, especially Miss ELLALINE TERRISS and Miss
DECIMA MOORE, whose two duets and character-dances are things of joy for ever. The representative
of Jack Deedes, Barrister-at-Law and Gifted Author, is LITTLE and good, and the services of
Mr. DRAYCOTT as the Lime-Light Comedian are invaluable. WEEDON GROSSMITH and BRANDON THOMAS
are better than ever: their duet is immense, but their combat is too short. Why not introduce
a Corsican Brothers duel? The music, by Mr. EDWARD JONES, is thoroughly appropriate and very
catching. By the way, one of the songs most encored goes with the exquisitely sensible and
touching refrain of "Diddle doddle diddle chip chop cho choorial li lay," which was enormously
popular about thirty years ago when it was sung at EVANS's by SAM COWELL, and by CHARLES YOUNG
as Dido on the stage of the St. James's Theatre. Odd this! The air has been a bit altered,
but I thought that comic songs once out of date were dead and done for. The success of this
is proof to the contrary. Will "Ta-ra-ra-boom" achieve a second success in 1922? Perhaps. A
capital entertainment, which has caught on at the Court, says

THE HUMBLE B. IN BOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOT AT HOME!"

(A DUOLOGUE ON A DOORSTEP.)

    SCENE--The G.O.M.'s front door. Two expectant callers,
    EIGHT-HOURS BILL and Miss SARAH SUFFRAGE, in sore
    disappointment and some disgust, interlocute:--

Mr. Bill (sardonically). You too? Ah! he ain't no respecter of
          pussons, he ain't!

Miss Sarah (tartly). Well, this tries the temper of even a
          Suffrage she-saint.
    I did think,--but there, you cannot trust Men--even Grand Old Ones!

Mr. Bill. Trust? Them as do trust Party Leaders are gen'rally sold
          ones.
    It don't a mite matter which side.

Miss Sarah.                       Well, as far as I see,
    The other side shows the most signs, BILL, of favouring Me!
    I'm sure Mister BALFOUR was awfully civil and nice.

Mr. Bill. You won't trust Prince ARTHUR too far, if you'll take my
          advice.

Miss Sarah. Well, no,--but I should like to pay out--the other. Ah,
          drat him!
    I'd comb his scant wool, the old fox, could I only get at him.
    I'd pamphlet the wily old word-spinner.

Mr. Bill.                                  Ah! I've no doubt;
    But wot can we do when his flunkey assures us he's out?

Miss Sarah. We're out, anyhow.

Mr. Bill. Ah! you see you ain't never got in.
    But me, his old pardner and pal! It's a shame, and a sin!
    He's throwed lots of cold water of late. I am blowed if I likes
    His wobbleyfied views about Payment of Members, and Strikes.
    And then that HOOD bizness! Long rigmarole--cheered by the Tories!
    I fear it's all Ikybod now with our G.O.M.'s glories.

Miss Suffrage. I never quite liked him--at heart. Mrs. FAWCETT,
          she warned me.

Mr. Bill. Well, now, I did love him! You see, he so buttered and
          yarned me;
    And now--he won't see me! O WILLYUM, I carn't understand it.

Miss Suffrage. I've asked him politely this time. P'raps next time
          I'll demand it.
    Unsex me? Aha! I am willing to wager Stonehenge
    To a pebble, when canvassing's wanted, I'll have my revenge!

Mr. Bill. And though he seems cocksure the Gen'l Election he'll win,
    Maybe if he's out to me always, he may not get in! [Exeunt.

Grand Old Voice (within). Look nasty! Now have I done wisely this
          time--on reflection?
    One must be so careful--"in view of the General Election!"

       *       *       *       *       *

RECOLLECTIONS OF (COCKNEY) "ARABIAN" DAYS AND NIGHTS.

    [Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS, Q.C., is about to publish, in the
    pages of Household Words, a series of descriptive articles,
    embodying his more than Wellerishly "extensive and peculiar"
    knowledge of London, and entitled "Round London, Down East, Up
    West."]

  When the breeze of romance in my youth blew free,
  "A Welcome Guest" I was wont to see.
  It was a right good time with me,
    A joyful, book-devouring time.
  Far about London I was borne,
  From night to night, from morn to morn;
  From Street to Park, from Tower to Dock.
  I was conveyed "Twice Round the Clock."
  True Sala-ite was I and sworn,
  For it was in the golden prime
    Of graphic GEORGE AUGUSTUS:
  And now I find me revelling through
  A magazine of saffron hue,
  Called "Sala's Journal," and I swim
  Once more in London's rushing tide,
  Piloted as of old by him
  Through "London Up to Date." With pride,
    I own I have a goodly time,
    For still it seems the golden prime
      Of graphic GEORGE AUGUSTUS.

  But many another since my youth
  The streets of Babylon hath trod,
  With a statistic measuring-rod,
  Or philanthropic gauge. In sooth
  There was GEORGE SIMS, there is CHARLES BOOTH.
  We now search out the Social Truth;
    A goodly plan, in the old time
    Foreshadowed in the golden prime
      Of worthy HENRY MAYHEW.

  Now London Labour, London Poor,
  Occupy pen and pencil more
  Than Pictures in the Passing Show
  Of the Immense Metropolis.
  And few have knowledge such as his,
  (The great Q.C., the worthy Beak!)
  Of modern Babylon, high and low;
  And so shall I with interest seek
  These pages, full of interest,
  "Round London, Down East, and Up West."
    True picture of the present time,
    Drawn for us by the pencil prime
      Of good MONTAGU WILLIAMS!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BURNING WORDS.

(FROM A WORKING MAN.)

    ["How many of you men would contribute to a Working Men's Fund
    the shilling you put on Orme, who, by the way, I am sorry
    to see was not poisoned to death."--Mr. John Burns in the
    Park.]

