In 1854, Napoleon, who had long studied the art of war, and during his stay in New York had
doubtless seen or heard of the floating battery, determined to construct two such batteries,
and accordingly built the Lave and Tonnerre. With one of these, the Lave, during the Russian
War, he assailed and destroyed in the brief space of one hour the strong fortress of Kinburn,
near Sebastopol; and in striking contrast to this success, a large British steamship, heavily
armed, but constructed of wood, was actually captured near Odessa by a small party of Russians
with two or three thirty-two-pounders worked through a gap in an embankment.

The invulnerable battery of France anchored close under the fortress. Before its cannon, granite
walls are shivered into fragments most dangerous to the gunners, while the shells, burying
themselves two or three feet deep in the brickwork, by their explosion shake the walls to pieces.
Iron, protected by iron, triumphed over both bricks and granite, which had defied the fleet
of England.

The Emperor was not slow to realize the result of the problem he had solved. He at once proceeded
to test the strength of the best kinds of plate made in his dominions, and found, by actual
trial, that plates of the best iron, but four and three-fourths inches in thickness, were able
to resist repeated shocks of solid balls fired at the distance of twenty metres (less than
four rods) from his sixty-eight-pounders, and from rifled guns throwing shot of nearly the
same calibre,--and this, too, when the balls were impelled by more than one-fourth their weight
of powder. But ships rarely engage at such close quarters either with vessels or fortresses,
and the effect of the ball is greatly diminished by distance, a single inch plate sufficing
to stop a spherical shot at a long distance.

As the result of these experiments, the Emperor proceeded to construct the Gloire, an iron-clad
frigate, which has been completed, has made several voyages, been tried in a severe gale, for
nearly a year has been the pride of the French navy, and has recently run from Toulon to Algiers
in the brief space of sixty-six hours.

The Gloire is a steam-frigate cased in five-inch plates; she is two hundred and fifty feet
in length by twenty-one in width, mounts thirty-eight rifled fifty-pounders, is moved by engines
of nine hundred horse-power, is manned by six hundred men, has a speed of twelve and a half
knots, and a capacity for five days' coal,--a capacity which might be easily increased by a
little more breadth of beam, but which is sufficient for a passage to Algiers, or along the
coast of Spain, England, or Italy. This vessel is considered invulnerable by balls discharged
from rifled cannon at the distance of four hundred yards.

Encouraged by his continued success, the Emperor at once ordered the construction of nine such
frigates, several of which are already finished. He has since ordered ten more iron-cased frigates
and gun-boats, which are now in course of construction. Before the present season closes, his
iron navy will be composed of twenty steamships and four floating batteries.

During the contest with Russia, England would not venture to expose her wooden ships of the
line to the close fire of the batteries either at Cronstadt or Sebastopol, and found it safer
to shell them at a respectful distance and with indifferent success. She was deeply impressed,
however, with the performance of the Lave and Tonnerre at Kinburn, and seriously disturbed
by the completion of the great naval station at Cherbourg, armed with more than three hundred
cannon, and directly opposite her coast.

England at first sought to meet the new invention by improved artillery, and produced the Whitworth
and Armstrong cannon, which have a range of four to five miles. With these she practised at
short distances upon targets of strong oaken plank faced with iron plates of four to five inches
in diameter, but found the plates impervious to balls, and vulnerable only by steel bolts of
small diameter, fired at short distances from Whitworth and Armstrong cannon,--bolts so small
that the wounds they made in the frames faced with iron usually closed or did little mischief.
A few plates of inferior iron occasionally gave way after repeated assaults, for English iron
is coarsely made and poorly welded,--a striking illustration of which may be found in a part
of the hull of the ill-fated steamer Connaught, which is preserved at the ship-yard near Dorchester
Point, South Boston.

England was at length convinced; she determined that she could not safely permit the Emperor
of the French to rule the sea with his iron navy. She had not forgotten St. Helena. She realized
that she had no fleet that could safely encounter one of his mail-clad warriors, and found
herself obliged to copy the new invention. She commenced last year ten iron-clad ships of the
line, and has nearly or quite finished the Warrior, Black Prince, Defiance, and Resistance,
while others are progressing. But she could not tamely copy France. Instead of confining herself
to the length of the Gloire, she is constructing vessels of immense size. The Warrior, recently
launched, is four hundred and twenty-six feet in length, nearly fifty-two feet in depth, has
a width of fifty-eight feet, measures six thousand one hundred and seventy-seven tons, and
is moved by engines of twelve hundred horse-power. She is to mount thirty-six cannon of the
largest class, and her armor weighs nine hundred tons.

This vessel will be a formidable antagonist upon the open sea; but her great depth, with the
weight of her armor, causes her to draw thirty feet, which would prohibit her entrance into
most of the seaports upon our coast. She is vulnerable, too, at each extremity. Her iron plates,
four and a half inches thick, extend but half her length, leaving more than a hundred feet
at each end covered by a plate of only five-eighths of an inch in thickness; and in case these
portions should be injured, she must rely upon her water-tight compartments. An adroit foe,
in a light craft of greater speed, avoiding her batteries, which are planted behind her armor,
might possibly assail her unprotected ends, and, although he could not sink her, still, by
shot between wind and water, he might render her more unwieldy and less manageable,--a weight
of water being thus admitted which would bring down the ship so as to endanger her lower ports
and prevent the use of them in action. He might thus also prevent her approach to shoal water.
The Warrior and her companions are, however, formidable ships, and in deep water, with ample
sea-room, must be most powerful antagonists.

The importance attached by England to mail-clad steamers may be inferred from the debates in
the House of Lords on the 11th and 14th of June, 1861, in which it was officially stated that
the Government had not authorized the construction of a single wooden three-decker since 1855,
nor one wooden two-decker since 1859, although it had launched a few upon the stocks for the
purpose of clearing the yards,--and that it now contemplated culling down a number of the largest
wooden steamships of the line for the purpose of plating them with iron, while it was constructing
nothing but iron ships, except a few light despatch frigates, corvettes, and gun-boats.

In the same debate it was stated that bolts of steel had been forced by improved Armstrong
cannon through an eight-inch mail composed of iron bars dovetailed together; but the quality
of the iron and the mode of fastening were both questioned. These experiments did not deter
the Government from constructing mail-clad steamships. Indeed, it must be obvious that the
great cost of Armstrong cannon, fifteen hundred to two thousand dollars each, together with
the cost of steel bolts, combined with the fact that this description of cannon is easily shattered,
if struck by a ball from the adversary, must long prevent its introduction into use; and should
it eventually succeed, it must prove far more destructive to wooden walls than to iron-clad
vessels.

It has, however, been urged in England against iron ships of all descriptions, but more as
a theory than as an ascertained fact, that a solid shot would make a large and irregular aperture,
if it entered the side of a vessel, and a much larger orifice as it passed out on the opposite
side. To this theory, however, there are two answers: first, that a solid ball can neither
enter nor pass out of the sides of a mail-clad steamer; second, that, when it enters a common
iron ship, there is evidence that it does less damage than would be suffered by a wooden vessel.
Captain Charlewood, of the Royal Navy, who recently commanded the iron frigate Guadaloupe in
the service of Mexico, testified before a Committee of the British Parliament, that "his ship
was under fire almost daily for four or five months," that "the damage by shot was considerably
less than that usually suffered by a wooden vessel, and that there was nothing like the number
of splinters which are generally forced out by a shot sent through a wooden vessel's side";
that "the vessel was hulled once in the midship part at about one thousand yards," and the
effect was "that the shot passed through the iron, making a round hole in the iron"; "that
at two feet below water another shot passed through the vessel's side and one or two casks
of provisions, and that the hole was simply plugged by the engineer at the time." He testified
also that none of the shot disturbed any rivets. His evidence is the more valuable as it relates
to an inferior vessel, whose plates were probably not more than half an inch thick.

The testimony of Captain W.H. Hall, R.N., in command of the iron frigate Nemesis, in the Chinese
war, was still more conclusive in favor of iron. He stated, "that in one action the Nemesis
was hit fourteen times," and that one shot "went in at one side and came out at the other,
and there were no splinters; in case of that shot, it went through just as if you put your
finger through a piece of paper: nothing could have been more easily stopped than I could have
stopped that shot in the Nemesis"; that, "several wooden steamers were employed in that service,
and they were invariably obliged to lie up for repairs, whilst I could repair the Nemesis in
twenty-four hours and have her always ready for service." The Nemesis was a common iron steamer,
and not a mail-clad steamship.

As respects the strength and durability of these steamers, although accidents have occurred
from defective materials, it is in proof that the Tyne and Great Britain ran ashore and remained
for months exposed to the open sea without going to pieces, and were finally rescued,--that
the Persia struck on an iceberg, filled one of her compartments with water, and came safe to
port,--that the North America and Edinburgh went at full speed upon the rocks near Cape Race
and yet escaped,--and that the Sarah Sands, while transporting troops to India, took fire,
that in consequence the interior and contents of one of her compartments were entirely consumed,
that her magazine exploded, and that she then encountered a ten days' gale, and after this
exposure to such a series of calamities she reached her port without losing one of her crew
or passengers.

The ambition of England to maintain her ascendancy upon the deep has led her to disregard the
advice of her Defence Commissioners, who recommended a different class of mail-clad steamers,
to measure but two thousand tons and to draw but sixteen feet of water,--a class admirably
adapted to the sea-ports and requirements of the United States. And singular as it may appear,
by some coincidence at a moment when our country requires this class of steamers, the enterprise
of Boston is completing two iron steamers whose dimensions and draught of water conform to
the recommendation of the British Commissioners,--steamers which are nearly ready for launching,
but which, if they can receive, before they leave the stocks, additional plates of iron, would
doubtless prove the most useful and efficient mail-clad vessels which have yet been constructed.

The stranger who would inspect these beautiful vessels may seat himself at almost any hour
of the day in the cars at the foot of Summer Street, and in twenty minutes find himself at
a point a little north of the Perkins Asylum for the Blind. A walk of five minutes more will
bring him to a secluded yard sloping gently towards the water, where he will find extensive
offices, and two large buildings which cover the vessels upon the stocks.

As he approaches these structures, he will notice many plates of superior iron from the rolling-mills
of Baltimore, combining the toughness and strength and other excellences of the best Pennsylvania
iron; he will notice, too, immense ribs and beams of iron, and hear the incessant din of hammers
riveting the sides and boilers.

Under each of these sheds he will find an iron steamship, two hundred and seventy-five feet
in length by twenty-three in depth, exquisitely proportioned; he will be struck by the fine
entrance and run. The extreme sharpness of the stem and stern, combined with great capacity,
seems to answer every requirement; and he will be surprised to learn that the draught of these
steamers is but sixteen feet when deeply laden, and that their engines of thirteen hundred
horse-power are expected to give them a speed of fifteen knots per hour. When they reach their
destined element and have received their lading, the height from the water-line to the deck
will be but seven feet; hence it is apparent that a belt of iron plates carried around them
of eight feet four inches in height would protect them from the deck to a point sixteen inches
below the water-line, or from the bottom of the deck-beams to a point two feet below the water-line.

The iron plates which form the sides of these ships range in thickness from one inch below
the water-line to three-fourths of an inch above it. And if we allow for the superior strength
and toughness of American iron, an additional plate of three inches in thickness would suffice
to give them more strength than that of either the French or English mail-clad steamers.

By careful computation we have ascertained that each vessel might be encircled by such plates,
weighing but one hundred and twenty pounds per superficial foot, and have her bulwarks plated
also, without adding more than three hundred tons to her weight,--actually less than one-third
of the cargo she was designed to carry. With an extra planking within, and an armament of twenty-four
rifled fifty-pounders or Whitworth cannon, and select crews, such vessels need fear no antagonists
upon the deep. Low in the hull, they would offer but little surface to the fire of the enemy,
and their sides would be impervious to shot and shell. Beneath the decks they could carry in
safety a whole regiment of troops. Selecting their position by superior speed, they could destroy
a fleet of wooden steamers or ships-of-the-line. Entering any of our large seaports, they could
pass the fortress at the entrance uninjured, and lay cities under contribution, or destroy
their ports, without being, like Achilles, or the English "Warrior," vulnerable in the heel.

When such steamers come into general use, we shall hear no more of the wooden walls of Greece
or England, or of those modern platforms which had not a stick of sound oak timber in them,--nothing,
indeed, but pitch-pine and cypress. Oak, pine, and cypress would fall into the same category,
when contrasted with the imperishable iron. Some new agency of steel must be invented to cope
with the adamantine iron. And it becomes our Government, both for the armament of our ships
and for defence against iron steamers, to adopt at the earliest moment every improvement in
rifled cannon.

The Navy Department has recently put under contract seven steamships and several steam gun-boats.
They have intrusted the latter to some of the ablest ship-builders of the country, and it is
well understood that most of these vessels are to be completed the present season. This measure,
as far as it goes, is eminently wise; but our navy must still be below the requirements of
the nation, and entirely disproportioned to the extent both of our commerce and of our sea-coast.
At a low estimate, our country requires an additional supply of at least six mail-clad steam
frigates, twelve steam sloops-of-war, and twelve steam gun-boats, with similar armor. It will
require also for long voyages and distant stations a dozen steam frigates of wood, and as many
steam sloops-of-war, like the best now in our service; and, with the materials and armament
now on hand, an outlay of twenty-five or thirty millions well applied may suffice for the construction
of the whole. With such a provision we need feel no solicitude as to the intervention of England
or France in our domestic affairs.

The lighter steamships of wood will answer for long voyages to the Mediterranean, the coast
of Africa, India, and the Pacific, and will protect our grain, flour, and corn, on their way
from the West to Europe. Our iron steamers will defend our commercial cities from attack or
blockade; they will level all rebel batteries on the waters of the Chesapeake; they can batter
down the fortresses of the Southern coast, and restore to commerce the ports of Charleston,
Savannah, Pensacola, Mobile, Apalachicola, New Orleans, and Galveston.

Most fortunately for our country, at a moment when we cannot immediately command the live oak
of Georgia and Florida, the oak plank of Virginia, or the yellow pine of the Carolinas, we
have the most abundant supplies of iron easily accessible, and now, relieved from the demands
of railways and factories, ready for the construction of our iron navy. The iron plates of
Pennsylvania and Maryland in strength and toughness know no superior. The iron mountain near
St. Louis and the mines on Lake Champlain furnish also an article of great purity and excellence.
But, choice as are these deposits of iron, they are all surpassed by the more recent discoveries
on Lake Superior, now opened by the ship-canal at the Straits of St. Mary. There Nature has
stored an inexhaustible amount of the richest iron ore, free from sulphur, phosphorus, arsenic,
and other deleterious substances, protruding above the surface of hillocks and underlying the
country for miles in extent. This ore is of the specular and magnetic kind, yields sixty-five
per cent. of iron of remarkable purity, is easily mined and transported to the Lake, and is
shipped in vast quantities to the ports of Lake Erie, where it meets the coal of Ohio. At least
ten companies are now engaged in its shipment, which has progressed thus far with great rapidity,
doubling every year. The shipments from Lake Superior, in 1858, were thirty thousand five hundred
and twenty-seven tons; in 1859, eighty thousand tons; in 1860, one hundred and fifty thousand
tons. So great are the magnetic powers of this iron, that, buried as it was in the depths of
the forest and beneath the surface of the earth, it disturbed the compasses of the United States
surveyors while engaged in the survey of Northern Michigan. For a time their needle would not
work, and they were obliged temporarily to suspend their operations. Their embarrassment led
to the discovery of these vast deposits of ore. It is now mingled with the inferior ore of
Ohio and Pennsylvania, and extensively wrought.

Our nation has strong motives to induce it to construct an iron navy.

First. The adoption of such a navy by the great powers of Europe,--England and France,--followed
by Russia, Austria, and Spain. Our commerce will be in danger, if they once acquire the power
of assailing us with impunity.

Second. Our urgent want of this class of vessels to recover our fortresses, repel blockades,
and reopen our Southern ports, without wearisome sieges, costly both in blood and treasure.

Third. Our inability to command our customary supplies of durable timber.

Fourth. The abundance of iron, unrivalled in any part of the world.

Fifth. The durability of the ships constructed from iron. If well manned and piloted, they
will seldom need repairs; and instead of failing, as many ships do in the sixth year, and requiring
vast expenditures to discharge and dismantle them for the renewal of the decaying timber, plank,
copper, and other materials, often amounting in the aggregate to more than their original cost,
the mail-clad steamers built of American iron will outlive successive races of wooden steamships.
The iron such a navy would require will put many idle hands in motion, which would otherwise
be unproductive during war,--the miners of Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York, the
colliers of Ohio and Pennsylvania, the mariners of the Lakes, the navigators of canals, and
the operatives of railways, down to the brawny smiths who fashion the metal into shapes,--until
their combined efforts launch it upon the deep, and send it forth to

  "dare the very elements to strife."

How much better would it be to create such an iron navy than to expend million after million
on wooden walls that must soon perish by decay or the shells of the enemy, or to lavish three
or four millions upon the conversion of our superannuated ships-of-the-line into steamships!
These, when converted, will still retain their age and constant tendency to decay, their models
long since abandoned, their original design, height of decks, and other proportions adapted
to the eighteen- and twenty-four-pounders formerly in use, which are now giving place to Dahlgren
and rifled cannon carrying balls of sixty-four to one hundred pounds weight. Such an expenditure
would be like an essay to convert a Yankee shingle-palace, such as Irving described half a
century ago, into a modern villa, and reminds one of a proposition made to an assembly some
twenty centuries since, which still has its significance.

An orator had proposed to convert an old politician into a general; but a citizen moved an
amendment to convert donkeys into horses, and when the possibility of doing so was questioned,
argued that the horses were necessary for the war, and that his measure was as feasible as
the other.

To prepare our nation for war, let us select the Enfield rifle, the Colt revolver, the rifled
and cast-steel cannon, the mail-clad steamer, and not resort to flint arrow-heads and tomahawks,
or to any other fossil remains of antiquity. The policy of creating an iron navy has been repeatedly
urged of late in the foreign journals. It has also been advocated with signal ability by Donald
McKay of Boston, one of our most eminent naval constructors, who, after building the Great
Republic, the Flying Cloud, and a fleet of other celebrated clippers, has visited the dockyards
of France and England, examined their mail-clad ships upon the stocks and those already finished.
Although himself accustomed to work on wood, and a candidate for employment as builder of some
of our wooden gun-boats, with great frankness as well as boldness he urges the construction
of mail-clad steamers. We trust Congress will no longer neglect so important a means of protecting
our national prosperity.

WHERE WILL THE REBELLION LEAVE US?

"The United States are bounded, North, by the British Possessions; South, by the Gulf of Mexico;
East, by the Atlantic Ocean; and West, by the Pacific." So the school-books told us which we
studied in our childhood; and so, in every school throughout the land, the children are taught
to-day. The armed hosts whose tread resounds through thy Continent are marching Southward to
teach this simple lesson in geography. They all know it by heart. "This they are ready to verify,"
as the lawyers say. Wherever, in any benighted region, this elementary proposition shall be
henceforth denied or doubted, schools for adults are to be established, and the needful instruction
given. By regiments, battalions, and brigades, with all necessary apparatus, the teachers go
forth to their work. The proposition is a very simple one, easily expressed and easily understood;
but it tells the whole story. It is the substance of all men's thoughts, and of all men's speech.
Mr. Lincoln states it in his inaugural. Mr. Douglas impresses it upon the Illinois legislature.
Mr. Seward announces it, briefly and with emphasis, to the governments of Europe. Sentimental
talk about "our country, however bounded," is obsolete; and how the country is bounded is now
the point to be settled, once and forever. "This territory, from the Great Lakes to the Gulf,
belongs to the people of the United States, and they mean to hold and keep it. We shall neither
alter our school-books nor revise our maps." So say the American people, rising in their wrath.

The practical question with which Mr. Lincoln's administration had to deal in the first place
was, Whether a popular government is strong enough to suppress a military rebellion? And that
may be regarded as already settled. But the grounds upon which that rebellion is justified
involve the vital facts of national unity, and even of national existence. As a people, we
have always been extremely tolerant of theories, however absurd. There is hardly a doctrine
of constitutional law so clear and well settled, that it is not, from time to time, discussed
and disputed among us. But when it comes to reducing mischievous speculations to practice,
the case is altered, and the practical genius of the people begins to manifest itself. Thus,
the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions of '98 and '99 declared the Federal Constitution to be
merely a compact between sovereign States, created for a special and limited purpose; and that
each party to the compact was the exclusive and final judge for itself of the construction
of the contract, with a right to determine for itself when it was violated, and the measure
and mode of redress. As a theory, this doctrine has been very extensively accepted. Great parties
have adopted it as their platform, and elections have been carried upon it. Its value as a
support to the dignity and self-importance of local politicians was readily apprehended by
them; and it was in perfect harmony with the tone of bluster which pervaded our politics. The
thorough refutation which it always encountered, whenever it was seriously considered, never
seemed to do its popularity any harm. In truth, mere vaporing hurt nobody, and caused no great
alarm. But when the Hartford Convention was suspected of covering a little actual heat under
the smoke of the customary resolutions and protests, a bucket of cold water was thrown over
it. When, in 1832, South Carolina developed a spark of real fire, the nation put its foot on
it. And now, when the torch of rebellion has been circulating among very inflammable materials,
until a serious conflagration is threatened, the instinct of self-preservation has roused the
energies of the whole people for its immediate, complete, and final extinction.

The present insurrection has been so long meditated, the approaches to its final consummation
have been so steadily made, and the schemes of the principal traitors have been so well planned
and carefully matured, that they have almost succeeded in making the vocabulary of treason
a part of the vernacular of the country. We all talk of the States which have seceded or are
going to secede,--of a fratricidal war,--of the measures which this or the other State is determined
or likely to adopt; and a great deal has been said about State sovereignty, and coercion of
a State, and the invasion of the soil of one State and another. There has been large discussion
in times past of the danger of a dissolution of the Union. Indeed, this danger has been so
often held up as a threat by one section, and so persistently used as a scarecrow by timid
or profligate men in the other, that it has become one of the commonplaces of political contests.
Our ears have hardly ceased to be tormented with projects of reconstruction, and with suggestions
of guaranties, and pacifications, and mediation, and neutrality, armed or otherwise. Border-State
Conventions are projected, and well-meaning governors have been arranging interviews or conducting
correspondence with governors who talked of Southern rights, and undertook to say what their
States would or would not permit the United States Government to do. Even a Cabinet officer,
of whom better things might have been expected, and by whom better things are now nobly said
and done, allowed himself to fall into the error of explaining to the vacillating Governor
of Maryland that the intentions of the National Administration were purely defensive. While
such language is current at home, it is not strange that foreigners should find themselves
in a state of hopeless confusion about us. Few European writers, except De Tocqueville, have
ever shown a clear comprehension of our political system; and the speeches of British statesmen
on American affairs are perhaps rather to be accounted for and excused from want of information,
than resented as hostile or insulting. But it is time that this whole pernicious dialect should
be exploded, and the ideas which it represents be eradicated from the minds of intelligent
men everywhere.

The right of revolution it is needless to discuss. Resistance, in any practicable method, to
intolerable oppression, is the natural right of every human being, and of course of every community.
But such a right is never included in the framework of organized civil society. From its nature,
it can form no part of a plan of government. The only formula which embraces it is the famous
one of "Monarchy tempered by Regicide"; and where that prevails, it seems to be adopted as
a practical expedient, rather than recognized as an established constitutional maxim. But as
a question of revolution the issue is not presented. If it were, it would be easy to deal with.
The only embarrassment in our present condition, so far as reasoning goes, arises from confused
notions of constitutional law, and the inaccuracy of language which necessarily attends them.
In order, therefore, to know what is before us, let us first see where we stand.

The London "Times" informs the people of England, that "the resolution of the North to crush
Secession by force involves a denial of the right of each one of the seceding States to determine
the conditions of its own national existence." Precisely so. It involves all that; but the
whole fact comprehends a great deal more. Not one of the States of the American Union has any
national existence, or ever had any, in the sense in which the "Times" uses the phrase. Not
one of them has any of the functions or qualities of a nation. In the case of the greater part
of the States in which the rebellion exists, the United States bought and paid for the territory
which they occupy, made States of them under its own Constitution and laws, upon certain conditions
made irrevocable by the act which created them, and reserved the forts, arsenals, and custom-houses
which their treasonable citizens have since undertaken to steal. The fundamental idea of the
American system is local self-government for local purposes, and national unity for national
purposes. Our national union is synonymous with our national existence. When we speak of sovereign
and independent States, the phrase has no other just meaning than that each State is independent
of every other in all matters exclusively appertaining to its own powers and duties, and sovereign
upon all subjects which have not been committed exclusively to the jurisdiction of the Federal
Government. Any encroachment by the Government of the United States upon the lawful jurisdiction
of the several States would be resisted as a usurpation; but the "reserved rights" of the States,
ex vi termini, cannot include any of the attributes of power which the people of the whole
country have conferred upon the Union. But further,--and this is a point of great practical
importance,--the Federal Government has no relation to the several States as States, and they
have no relations to it, or to each other, except so far as these relations are expressly defined
and specified in the National Constitution. Beyond these, the authority and jurisdiction of
the nation address themselves and are applied to the individual citizens of all the States
alike. "The king can do no wrong," is the maxim of English law. A State of the American Union
cannot secede, or commit treason, or make war upon the United States. So the United States
cannot, and do not, make war upon any State. Virginia, for all national purposes, belongs to
the United States,--exactly as it belongs to the State, for the purposes of local administration.
In theory, and in practice, the State of Virginia is at this moment a peaceful and faithful
member of the American Union. Her Senators and Representatives, except so far as individuals
among them may have disqualified themselves by resignation, or, what may be held to be equivalent,
by deserting their posts to array themselves in active hostility to their country, are still
entitled to their seats in Congress. The State may be overrun by armed insurgents, resisting
the Federal authority; but so it might be by a foreign army. The peaceful citizens, who remain
faithful to their constitutional obligations, are entitled to the aid of the national power
to suppress domestic insurrection, whatever proportions that insurrection may assume. The soldiers
of the United States, lawfully mustered to resist invasion or put down rebellion, have nothing
to do with State lines, and act in perfect harmony with all legitimate State action. They can
no more invade a State than if they were in it to resist a foreign enemy, or than a United
States marshal invades it when he goes to arrest a counterfeiter. The "Times" would have little
difficulty in understanding a denial of the right of the Isle of Man, or of Lancashire, or
of Ireland, "to determine the conditions of its own national existence."

There is another fallacy in speaking of the resolution of the North to crush Secession by force.
It is the resolution of the nation,--of all that is faithful and loyal in it, wherever found.
The people of the Southern States have not had any fair opportunity to express their opinions.
The military usurpers have allowed nothing to be submitted to the test of a popular vote, except
where they were able to take such measures of precaution, in the way of hanging, confiscation,
banishment, disarming opponents, and the presence of an armed force which should overawe dissenters,
as might secure the unanimity they desired. There is undoubtedly much more loyalty in the Northern
than in the Southern States of the Union, as there is less of passion, and more of intelligence
and principle,--although treason has, till very lately, found more than enough apologists or
abettors even in the Free States. But the spirit which now actuates our people has little that
is sectional in it, and the principles at issue have the same application to Maine that they
have to Florida.

When we ask, then, where this rebellion will leave us, and what will be the condition of the
United States when the authority of the Government has been vindicated and reëstablished, the
answer must be sought in the considerations already suggested. The rebellion cannot be ended,
until we have settled as a principle of constitutional law for our own citizens, and as a fact
of which all other nations must take notice, that this whole country belongs to the people
of the United States. No foreign power shall possess a foot of it. If the majority of the people
of a State can throw off their allegiance to the Union, they can transfer their allegiance
to England or Spain at their pleasure, as well as to a new confederacy of their own devising.
The battles of the Revolution which secured our independence were fought by the whole country,
and for the whole country, without reference to local majorities. The accessions to our territory
were made by the nation as a unit, and belong to it as such. We did not acquire Texas, and
pay the millions of its debt, with the reservation that it might sell itself again the next
day to the highest bidder. That no foreign dominion shall interpose between the Northwest and
the Atlantic, or between the Valley of the Mississippi and the Gulf, is a geographical necessity.
But that, the American Union is indissoluble is essential to our national existence. If that
be not so, we have neither a flag nor a country,--we can neither contract a debt nor make a
treaty,--we have neither honor abroad nor strength at home,--our experiment of free government
is a blunder and a failure, and for us, "Chaos has come again."

But the further question remains, In what way is it possible that harmony shall be restored
between the parts of the country through which the rebellion has spread and those which have
remained faithful to the Constitution and the Union? When we have dispersed the armies of the
rebels, and demolished their batteries, and retaken our forts and arsenals, our navy-yards
and armories, our mints and custom-houses,--when we have visited their leaders with retributive
justice, and made Richmond and Charleston and New Orleans as submissive to lawful authority
as Baltimore or Washington or Boston,--what then? Will a people we have subjugated ever live
with us again on terms of equality and friendship? Can the wounded pride of the Ancient Dominion
be so far soothed that she can allow us again to bask in the sunshine of her favor? Will she
ever consent to resume her old superiority, and furnish our audacious army and navy with officers,
our committees with chairmen, and our departments with clerks? Or must we, for a generation,
hold the States we have subdued by military occupation? Must we make Territories of them, and
blot out those malignant stars from our glorious and triumphant banner?

In all seriousness, there seems but one solution to the problem; and it must be found, if at
all, in the proposition already stated, that treason is an individual act. A State cannot rebel,
as it cannot secede. A governor of a State may rebel, and a majority of a legislature may join
an insurrection, as a governor or legislators may commit larceny or join a piratical expedition.
But whoever arrays himself in armed opposition to the Government of the United States, or gives
aid and comfort to its enemies, becomes thereby merely a private rebel and traitor. Whatever
office he may fill, with whatever functions of local government he may be intrusted, by whatever
name he may be called, governor or judge, senator or representative, it is the treason of the
citizen, and not of the officer. And as a State has no legal existence except as a member of
the Union, and has no constitutional powers or functions or capacities but those which it exercises
in harmony with and subordination to the rightful authority of the Federal Government, so the
loyal and faithful inhabitants of a State, and they only, constitute the State. Mr. Mason tells
the people of Virginia, that those of them who, in their consciences, cannot vote to separate
Virginia from the United States, if they retain such opinions, must leave the State. We thank
him for teaching us that word. When the tables are turned, it will form a valuable theme for
his private meditation. The unconditional Union men, who are of and for their country against
all comers, who neither commit treason openly nor disguise their cowardly treachery under the
shallow cover of neutrality, are to wield the power of their respective States, and to be the
only recognized inhabitants. All others must submit or fly. If the Governor and Legislature
of Virginia have renounced their allegiance to the United States, and undertaken to establish
a foreign jurisdiction in a portion of our territory, their relation to that State becomes
substantially the same as if they had gone on board a British fleet in the Chesapeake, or enlisted
under the standard of an invading army. They have abdicated their offices, which thereby become
vacant. Would it have been less an abdication, if he had remained within the realm, and attempted
to hold it as the viceroy of France? When, in June, 1775, Governor Dunmore and his Council
took refuge on board a British man-of-war, the Virginians of that day proceeded to meet in
convention, and provide new officers to manage the affairs of their State. Let this historical
precedent be followed now. Wherever, in either of the States which the rebels have sought to
appropriate, the loyal citizens can find a spot in which they can meet in safety, let them
meet by their delegates in convention, and adopt the necessary measures to elect new officers
under their present constitutions. The only irregularity will be what results from the fact
that treason in such high places and on so large a scale was not contemplated, nor was a remedy
furnished for it, in their frame of government. It is merely a case not provided for, and the
omission must be supplied in the most practicable way. The new organization should and undoubtedly
would be recognized by the National Government, and by the other States, as, de facto and de
jure, the State. It was settled in the Rhode Island case, under Tyler's administration, that,
where different portions of the people claim to hold and exercise the powers of a State government,
it presents a political question which the National Executive and Congress must decide; and
that judicial recognition must follow and conform to the political decision.

When, by such a course, the proper relations and functions of each State should be resumed,
there would no longer be any matter of State pride to interfere with the absolute assertion
of national authority. The new State governments would be protected against armed assailants
at home and invasion from abroad; they would apply for and obtain assistance to suppress domestic
insurrection; every misguided insurgent would have opportunity to return to his duty under
the protection of his own local authorities; appropriations for the army and navy could be
passed with the aid of Tennessee and Alabama votes in Congress; and Davis, and Tyler, and Mason
be hung upon the verdict of a jury of the vicinage.

In Virginia, a movement based upon this principle has been already inaugurated. From Western
Virginia, the progress toward Eastern Tennessee and Northern Alabama is natural and certain.
The worst case to deal with, unquestionably, is South Carolina. Hers is a peculiar people,
and zealous, though scarcely of good works. That fiery little Commonwealth is remarkably constituted.
The State is inhabited principally by negroes; and the remaining minority may be divided into
two classes,--whites who are dependent upon negroes for a subsistence, and whites whose chief
distinction in life and great consolation is that they are not negroes. The former and much
the smaller class possess all the wealth, all the cultivation, and all the political power,
which they are enabled to retain by an ingenious and systematic use of the prejudices and passions
of the latter. They are reputed to have much earnestness of conviction, and claim an unusual
amount of gallantry and courage for their soldiers; though it is noticeable that their principal
exploits in our time have been the seizure of friendless colored sailors, and selling them
into slavery,--the achievement of that knight of the bludgeon, the representative whose noble
deed his constituents could hardly admire enough, but the better part of whose valor was the
discretion that preferred to encounter his antagonist sitting and incapable of resistance,--and
lastly, that heroic and bloodless victory at Fort Sumter, where imperishable glory was won
by the ten thousand who conquered the seventy. They seem now to be united, and substantially
unanimous. What elements a little adversity would develop in them, time must determine. Whether
there is any reserve of patriotism and fidelity, overawed and silenced now, but which will
come forth to serve as the nucleus of reconstruction when it can find protection and security,
or whether we must wait for a new generation to grow up, remains to be tried. Their leaders
are subtle reasoners, and it has been shrewdly observed of them that "they never shrink from
following their logic to its consequences because the conclusion is immoral." Perhaps they
will find no more difficulty in accepting the arguments we shall address to them because the
conclusion is a little humiliating. In their case, we shall have little need to concern ourselves
about the wishes of a local majority. The fact that a majority are blacks, to begin with, must
deprive that consideration of all its force, even to their own apprehension. It will not be
the first time that they have received a benefit which did not agree with the wishes of the
greater part of those upon whom it was bestowed. The men of Rhode Island and Massachusetts
who achieved the independence of South Carolina did not stop to consider whether a majority
of her white inhabitants were Tories.

When we hear that the colonel of a regiment of Secessionists sends a flag of truce to Fort
Monroe to ask for the return of his fugitive slaves under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, a painful doubt must be suggested whether such gentlemen really believe themselves
to be so wholly and utterly out of the Union as the theory of Secession would indicate. And
when the novel, but very sensible doctrine with which that singular demand was met, that slaves
are to be regarded as articles contraband of war, chattels capable of a military use, a kind
of locomotive gun-carriages and intrenching-tools, and as such to be taken and confiscated
when found belonging to armed rebels, shall have been practically applied for a time, with
its natural and obvious result, it may be that even the Palmetto State will exhibit some general
symptoms of returning reason.

THEODORE WINTHROP.

Theodore Winthrop's life, like a fire long smouldering, suddenly blazed up into a clear, bright
flame, and vanished. Those of us who were his friends and neighbors, by whose firesides he
sat familiarly, and of whose life upon the pleasant Staten Island, where he lived, he was so
important a part, were so impressed by his intense vitality, that his death strikes us with
peculiar strangeness, like sudden winter-silence falling upon these humming fields of June.

As I look along the wooded brook-side by which he used to come, I should not be surprised,
if I saw that knit, wiry, light figure moving with quick, firm, leopard tread over the grass,--the
keen gray eye, the clustering fair hair, the kind, serious smile, the mien of undaunted patience.
If you did not know him, you would have found his greeting a little constrained,--not from
shyness, but from genuine modesty and the habit of society. You would have remarked that he
was silent and observant rather than talkative; and whatever he said, however gay or grave,
would have had the reserve of sadness upon which his whole character was drawn. If it were
a woman who saw him for the first time, she would inevitably see him through a slight cloud
of misapprehension; for the man and his manner were a little at variance. The chance is that
at the end of five minutes she would have thought him conceited. At the end of five months
she would have known him as one of the simplest and most truly modest of men.

And he had the heroic sincerity which belongs to such modesty. Of a noble ambition, and sensitive
to applause,--as every delicate nature veined with genius always is,--he would not provoke
the applause by doing anything which, although it lay easily within his power, was yet not
wholly approved by him as worthy. Many men are ambitious and full of talent, and when the prize
does not fairly come they snatch at it unfairly. This was precisely what he could not do. He
would strive and deserve; but if the crown were not laid upon his head in the clear light of
day and by confession of absolute merit, he could ride to his place again and wait, looking
with no envy, but in patient wonder and with critical curiosity upon the victors. It is this
which he expresses in the paper in the July number of this magazine, "Washington as a Camp,"
when he says,--"I have heretofore been proud of my individuality, and resisted, so far as one
may, all the world's attempts to merge me in the mass."

It was this which made many who knew him much, but not truly, feel that he was purposeless
and restless. They knew his talent, his opportunities. Why does he not concentrate? Why does
he not bring himself to bear? He did not plead his ill-health; nor would they have allowed
the plea. The difficulty was deeper. He felt that he had shown his credentials, and they were
not accepted. "I can wait, I can wait," was the answer his life made to the impatience of his
friends.

We are all fond of saying that a man of real gifts will fit himself to the work of any time;
and so he will. But it is not necessarily to the first thing that offers. There is always latent
in civilized society a certain amount of what may be called Sir Philip Sidney genius, which
will seem elegant and listless and aimless enough until the congenial chance appears. A plant
may grow in a cellar; but it will flower only under the due sun and warmth. Sir Philip Sidney
was but a lovely possibility, until he went to be Governor of Flushing. What else was our friend,
until he went to the war?

The age of Elizabeth did not monopolize the heroes, and they are always essentially the same.
When, for instance, I read in a letter of Hubert Languet's to Sidney, "You are not over-cheerful
by nature," or when, in another, he speaks of the portrait that Paul Veronese painted of Sidney,
and says, "The painter has represented you sad and thoughtful," I can believe that he is speaking
of my neighbor.

Nor is it unfair to remember just here that he bore one of the few really historic names in
this country. He never spoke of it; but we should all have been sorry not to feel that he was
glad to have sprung straight from that second John Winthrop who was the first Governor of Connecticut,
the younger sister colony of Massachusetts Bay,--the John Winthrop who obtained the charter
of privileges for his colony. How clearly the quality of the man has been transmitted! How
brightly the old name shines out again!

He was born in New Haven on the 22d of September, 1828, and was a grave, delicate, rather precocious
child. He was at school only in New Haven, and entered Yale College just as he was sixteen.
The pure, manly morality which was the substance of his character, and his brilliant exploits
of scholarship, made him the idol of his college, friends, who saw in him the promise of the
splendid career which the fond faith of students allots to the favorite classmate. He studied
for the Clark scholarship, and gained it; and his name, in the order of time, is first upon
the roll of that foundation. He won the Townshend prize for the best composition on History.
For the Berkeleian scholarship he and another were judged equal, and, drawing lots, the other
gained the scholarship; but they divided the honor.

In college his favorite studies were Greek and mental philosophy. He never lost the scholarly
taste and habit. A wide reader, he retained knowledge with little effort, and often surprised
his friends by the variety of his information. Yet it was not strange, for he was born a scholar.
His mother was the great-granddaughter of old President Edwards; and among his ancestors upon
the maternal side, Winthrop counted seven Presidents of Yale. Perhaps also in this learned
descent we may find the secret of his early seriousness. Thoughtful and self-criticizing, he
was peculiarly sensible to religious influences, under which his criticism easily became self-accusation,
and his sensitive seriousness grew sometimes morbid. He would have studied for the ministry
or a professorship, upon leaving college, except for his failing health.

In the later days, when I knew him, the feverish ardor of the first religious impulse was past.
It had given place to a faith much too deep and sacred to talk about, yet holding him always
with serene, steady poise in the purest region of life and feeling. There was no franker or
more sympathetic companion for young men of his own age than he; but his conversation fell
from his lips as unsullied as his soul.

He graduated in 1848, when he was twenty years old; and for the sake of his health, which was
seriously shattered,--an ill-health that colored all his life, he set out upon his travels.
He went first to England, spending much time at Oxford, where he made pleasant acquaintances,
and walking through Scotland. He then crossed over to France and Germany, exploring Switzerland
very thoroughly upon foot,--once or twice escaping great dangers among the mountains,--and
pushed on to Italy and Greece, still walking much of the way. In Italy he made the acquaintance
of Mr. W.H. Aspinwall, of New York, and upon his return became tutor to Mr. Aspinwall's son.
He presently accompanied his pupil and a nephew of Mr. Aspinwall, who were going to a school
in Switzerland; and after a second short tour of six months in Europe he returned to New York,
and entered Mr. Aspinwall's counting-house. In the employ of the Pacific Steamship Company
he went to Panama and resided for about two years, travelling, and often ill of the fevers
of the country. Before his return he travelled through California and Oregon,--went to Vancouver's
Island, Puget Sound, and the Hudson Bay Company's station there. At the Dalles he was smitten
with the small-pox, and lay ill for six weeks. He often spoke with the warmest gratitude of
the kind care that was taken of him there. But when only partially recovered he plunged off
again into the wilderness. At another time he fell very ill upon the Plains, and lay down,
as he supposed, to die; but after some time struggled up and on again.

He returned to the counting-room, but, unsated with adventure, joined the disastrous expedition
of Lieutenant Strain, during which his health was still more weakened, and he came home again
in 1854. In the following year he studied law and was admitted to the bar. In 1856 he entered
heartily into the Fremont campaign, and from the strongest conviction. He went into some of
the dark districts of Pennsylvania and spoke incessantly. The roving life and its picturesque
episodes, with the earnest conviction which inspired him, made the summer and autumn exciting
and pleasant. The following year he went to St. Louis to practise law. The climate was unkind
to him, and he returned and began the practice in New York. But he could not be a lawyer. His
health was too uncertain, and his tastes and ambition allured him elsewhere. His mind was brimming
with the results of observation. His fancy was alert and inventive, and he wrote tales and
novels. At the same time he delighted to haunt the studio of his friend Church, the painter,
and watch day by day the progress of his picture, the Heart of the Andes. It so fired his imagination
that he wrote a description of it, in which, as if rivalling the tropical and tangled richness
of the picture, he threw together such heaps and masses of gorgeous words that the reader was
dazzled and bewildered.

The wild campaigning life was always a secret passion with him. His stories of travel were
so graphic and warm, that I remember one evening, after we had been tracing upon the map a
route he had taken, and he had touched the whole region into life with his description, my
younger brother, who had sat by and listened with wide eyes all the evening, exclaimed with
a sigh of regretful satisfaction, as the door closed upon our story-teller, "It's as good as
Robinson Crusoe!" Yet, with all his fondness and fitness for that kind of life, or indeed any
active administrative function, his literary ambition seemed to be the deepest and strongest.

He had always been writing. In college and upon his travels he kept diaries; and he has left
behind him several novels, tales, sketches of travel, and journals. The first published writing
of his which is well known is his description, in the June number of this magazine, of the
March of the Seventh Regiment of New York to Washington. It was charming by its graceful, sparkling,
crisp, off-hand dash and ease. But it is only the practised hand that can "dash off" effectively.
Let any other clever member of the clever regiment, who has never written, try to dash off
the story of a day or a week in the life of the regiment, and he will see that the writer did
that little thing well because he had done large things carefully. Yet, amid all the hurry
and brilliant bustle of the articles, the author is, as he was in the most bustling moment
of the life they described, a spectator, an artist. He looks on at himself and the scene of
which he is part. He is willing to merge his individuality; but he does not merge it, for he
could not.

