The strength of one man would scarcely suffice to obtain these things if men did not mutually
assist one another. As money has presented us with an abstract of everything, it has come to
pass that its image above every other usually occupies the mind of the multitude, because they
can imagine hardly any kind of joy without the accompanying idea of money as its cause.

XXIX

This, however, is a vice only in those who seek money not from poverty or necessity, but because
they have learned the arts of gain, by which they keep up a grand appearance. As for the body
itself, they feed it in accordance with custom, but sparingly, because they believe that they
lose so much of their goods as they spend upon the preservation of their body. Those, however,
who know the true use of money, and regulate the measure of wealth according to their needs,
live contented with few things.

XXX

Since, therefore, those things are good which help the parts of the body to perform their functions,
and since joy consists in this, that the power of man, in so far as he is made up of mind and
body, is helped or increased, it follows that all things which bring joy are good. But inasmuch
as things do not work to this end--that they may affect us with joy--nor is their power of
action guided in accordance with our profit, and finally, since joy is generally related chiefly
to some one part of the body, it follows that generally the emotions of joy (unless reason
and watchfulness be present), and consequently the desires which are begotten from them, are
excessive. It is to be added, that an emotion causes us to put that thing first which is sweet
to us in the present, and that we are not able to judge the future with an equal emotion of
the mind.

XXXI

Superstition, on the contrary, seems to affirm that what brings sorrow is good, and, on the
contrary, that what brings joy is evil. But, as we have already said, no one, excepting an
envious man, is delighted at my impotence or disadvantage, for the greater the joy with which
we are affected, the greater the perfection to which we pass, and consequently the more do
we participate in the divine nature; nor can joy ever be evil which is controlled by a true
consideration for our own profit. On the other hand, the man who is led by fear, and does what
is good that he may avoid what is evil, is not guided by reason.

XXXII

But human power is very limited, and is infinitely surpassed by the power of external causes,
so that we do not possess an absolute power to adapt to our service the things which are without
us. Nevertheless we shall bear with equanimity those things which happen to us contrary to
what a consideration of our own profit demands, if we are conscious that we have performed
our duty, that the power we have could not reach so far as to enable us to avoid those things,
and that we are a part of the whole of Nature, whose order we follow. If we clearly and distinctly
understand this, the part of us which is determined by intelligence, that is to say, the better
part of us, will be entirely satisfied therewith, and in that satisfaction will endeavor to
persevere; for, in so far as we understand, we cannot desire anything excepting what is necessary,
nor, absolutely, can we be satisfied with anything but the truth. Therefore in so far as we
understand these things properly will the efforts of the better part of us agree with the order
of the whole of Nature.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] ... If it agreed better with a man's nature that he should hang himself, could any reasons
be given for his not hanging himself? Can such a nature possibly exist? If so, I maintain (whether
I do or do not grant free will), that such an one, if he sees that he can live more conveniently
on the gallows than sitting at his own table, would act most foolishly, if he did not hang
himself. So any one who clearly saw that, by committing crimes, he would enjoy a really more
perfect and better life and existence, than he could attain by the practice of virtue, would
be foolish if he did not act on his convictions. For, with such a perverse human nature as
his, crime would become virtue. From a letter to Wm. Blyenbergh (March 13, 1665).

[31] It is to be observed that here and in the following I understand by hatred, hatred towards
men only.

CHAPTER XVI

OF THE FOUNDATIONS OF A STATE[32]

By the right and ordinance of Nature, I merely mean those natural laws wherewith we conceive
every individual to be conditioned by Nature, so as to live and act in a given way. For instance,
fishes are naturally conditioned for swimming, and the greater for devouring the less; therefore
fishes enjoy the water, and the greater devour the less by sovereign natural right. For it
is certain that Nature, taken in the abstract, has sovereign right to do anything she can;
in other words, her right is co-extensive with her power. The power of Nature is the power
of God, which has sovereign right over all things; and, inasmuch as the power of Nature is
simply the aggregate of the powers of all her individual components, it follows that every
individual has sovereign right to do all that he can, in other words, the rights of an individual
extend to the utmost limits of his power as it has been conditioned.

Now it is the sovereign law and right of Nature that each individual should endeavor to preserve
itself as it is, without regard to anything but itself; therefore this sovereign law and right
belongs to every individual, namely, to exist and act according to its natural conditions.
We do not here acknowledge any difference between mankind and other individual natural entities,
nor between men endowed with reason and those to whom reason is unknown; nor between fools,
madmen, and sane men. Whatsoever an individual does by the laws of its nature it has a sovereign
right to do, inasmuch as it acts as it was conditioned by Nature, and cannot act otherwise.
Wherefore among men, so long as they are considered as living under the sway of Nature, he
who does not yet know reason, or who has not yet acquired the habit of virtue, acts solely
according to the laws of his desire with as sovereign a right as he who orders his life entirely
by the laws of reason.

That is, as the wise man has sovereign right to do all that reason dictates, or to live according
to the laws of reason, so also the ignorant and foolish man has sovereign right to do all that
desire dictates, or to live according to the laws of desire. This is identical with the teaching
of Paul, who acknowledges that previous to the law--that is, so long as men are considered
of as living under the sway of Nature, there is no sin.

The natural right of the individual man is thus determined, not by sound reason, but by desire
and power. All are not naturally conditioned so as to act according to the laws and rules of
reason; nay, on the contrary, all men are born ignorant, and before they can learn the right
way of life and acquire the habit of virtue, the greater part of their life, even if they have
been well brought up, has passed away. Nevertheless, they are in the meanwhile bound to live
and preserve themselves as far as they can by the unaided impulses of desire. Nature has given
them no other guide, and has denied them the present power of living according to sound reason;
so that they are no more bound to live by the dictates of an enlightened mind than a cat is
bound to live by the laws of the nature of a lion.

Whatsoever, therefore, an individual, considered as under the sway of Nature, thinks useful
for himself, whether led by sound reason or impelled by the passions, that he has a sovereign
right to seek and to take for himself as he best can, whether by force, cunning, entreaty,
or any other means; consequently he may regard as an enemy any one who hinders the accomplishment
of his purpose.

It follows from what we have said that the right and ordinance of Nature, under which all men
are born, and under which they mostly live, only prohibits such things as no one desires, and
no one can attain: it does not forbid strife, nor hatred, nor anger, nor deceit, nor, indeed,
any of the means suggested by desire.

This we need not wonder at, for Nature is not bounded by the laws of human reason, which aims
only at man's true benefit and preservation. Her limits are infinitely wider, and have reference
to the eternal order of Nature, wherein man is but a speck. It is by the necessity of this
alone that all individuals are conditioned for living and acting in a particular way. If anything,
therefore, in Nature seems to us ridiculous, absurd, or evil, it is because we only know in
part, and are almost entirely ignorant of the order and interdependence of Nature as a whole,
and also because we want everything to be arranged according to the dictates of our human reason;
in reality that which reason considers evil is not evil in respect to the order and laws of
Nature as a whole, but only in respect to the laws of our reason.

Nevertheless, no one can doubt that it is much better for us to live according to the laws
and assured dictates of reason, for, as we said, they have men's true good for their object.
Moreover, every one wishes to live as far as possible securely beyond the reach of fear, and
this would be quite impossible so long as every one did everything he liked, and reason's claim
was lowered to a par with those of hatred and anger. There is no one who is not ill at ease
in the midst of enmity, hatred, anger and deceit, and who does not seek to avoid them as much
as he can. When we reflect that men without mutual help, or the aid of reason, must needs live
most miserably, ... we shall plainly see that men must necessarily come to an agreement to
live together as securely and well as possible if they are to enjoy, as a whole, the rights
which naturally belong to them as individuals, and their life should be no more conditioned
by the force and desire of individuals, but by the power and will of the whole body. This end
they will be unable to attain if desire be their only guide, for by the laws of desire each
man is drawn in a different direction; they must, therefore, most firmly decree and establish
that they will be guided in everything by reason, which nobody will dare openly to repudiate
lest he should be taken for a madman, and will restrain any desire which is injurious to a
man's fellows, that they will do to all as they would be done by, and that they will defend
their neighbor's rights as their own.

How such a compact as this should be entered into, how ratified and established, we will now
inquire.

Now it is a universal law of human nature that no one ever neglects anything which he judges
to be good, except with the hope of gaining a greater good, or from the fear of a greater evil;
nor does any one endure an evil except for the sake of avoiding a greater evil, or gaining
a greater good. That is, every one will, of two goods, choose that which he thinks the greatest;
and, of two evils that which he thinks the least. I say advisedly that which he thinks the
greatest or the least, for it does not necessarily follow that he judges right. This law is
so deeply implanted in the human mind that it ought to be counted among eternal truths and axioms.

As a necessary consequence of the principle just enunciated, no one can honestly promise to
forego the right which he has over all things,[33] and in general no one will abide by his
promises, unless under the fear of a greater evil, or the hope of a greater good. An example
will make the matter clearer. Suppose that a robber forces me to promise that I will give him
my goods at his will and pleasure. It is plain (inasmuch as my natural right is, as I have
shown, co-extensive with my power) that if I can free myself from this robber by stratagem,
by assenting to his demands, I have the natural right to do so, and to pretend to accept his
conditions. Or, again, suppose I have genuinely promised some one that for the space of twenty
days I will not taste food or any nourishment; and suppose I afterwards find that my promise
was foolish, and cannot be kept without very great injury to myself; as I am bound by natural
law and right to choose the least of two evils, I have complete right to break any compact,
and act as if my promise had never been uttered. I say that I should have perfect natural right
to do so, whether I was actuated by true and evident reason, or whether I was actuated by mere
opinion in thinking I had promised rashly; whether my reasons were true or false, I should
be in fear of a greater evil, which, by the ordinance of Nature, I should strive to avoid by
every means in my power.

We may, therefore, conclude that a compact is only made valid by its utility, without which
it becomes null and void. It is therefore foolish to ask a man to keep his faith with us forever,
unless we also endeavor that the violation of the compact we enter into shall involve for the
violator more harm than good. This consideration should have very great weight in forming a
state. However, if all men could be easily led by reason alone, and could recognize what is
best and most useful for a state, there would be no one who would not forswear deceit, for
every one would keep most religiously to their compact in their desire for the chief good,
namely, the preservation of the state, and would cherish good faith above all things as the
shield and buckler of the commonwealth. However, it is far from being the case that all men
can always be easily led by reason alone; every one is drawn away by his pleasure, while avarice,
ambition, envy, hatred, and the like so engross the mind that reason has no place therein.
Hence, though men make promises with all the appearances of good faith, and agree that they
will keep to their engagement, no one can absolutely rely on another man's promise unless there
is something behind it. Every one has by Nature a right to act deceitfully, and to break his
compacts, unless he be restrained by the hope of some greater good, or the fear of some greater
evil.

However, as we have shown that the natural right of the individual is only limited by his power,
it is clear that by transferring, either willingly or under compulsion, this power into the
hands of another, he in so doing necessarily cedes also a part of his right; and, further,
that the sovereign right over all men belongs to him who has sovereign power, wherewith he
can compel men by force, or restrain them by threats of the universally feared punishment of
death. Such sovereign right he will retain only so long as he can maintain his power of enforcing
his will; otherwise he will totter on his throne, and no one who is stronger than he will be
bound unwillingly to obey him.

In this manner a society can be formed without any violation of natural right, and the covenant
can always be strictly kept--that is, if each individual hands over the whole of his power
to the body politic, the latter will then possess sovereign natural right over all things;
that is, it will have sole and unquestioned dominion, and every one will be bound to obey,
under pain of the severest punishment. A body politic of this kind is called a Democracy, which
may be defined as a society which wields all its power as a whole. The sovereign power is not
restrained by any laws, but every one is bound to obey it in all things; such is the state
of things implied when men either tacitly or expressly handed over to it all their power of
self-defense, or in other words, all their right. For if they had wished to retain any right
for themselves, they ought to have taken precautions for its defense and preservation. As they
have not done so, and indeed could not have done so without dividing and consequently ruining
the state, they placed themselves absolutely at the mercy of the sovereign power; and, therefore,
having acted (as we have shown) as reason and necessity demanded, they are obliged to fulfill
the commands of the sovereign power, however absurd these may be, else they will be public
enemies, and will act against reason, which urges the preservation of the state as a primary
duty. For reason bids us choose the lesser of two evils.

Furthermore, this danger of submitting absolutely to the dominion and will of another, is one
which may be incurred with a light heart: for we have shown that sovereigns only possess this
right of imposing their will, so long as they have the full power to enforce it. If such power
be lost their right to command is lost also, or lapses to those who have assumed it and can
keep it. Thus it is very rare for sovereigns to impose thoroughly irrational commands, for
they are bound to consult their own interests, and retain their power by consulting the public
good and acting according to the dictates of reason, as Seneca says, "violenta imperia nemo
continuit diu." No one can long retain a tyrant's sway.

In a democracy, irrational commands are still less to be feared: for it is almost impossible
that the majority of a people, especially if it be a large one, should agree in an irrational
design: and, moreover, the basis and aim of a democracy is to avoid the desires as irrational,
and to bring men as far as possible under the control of reason, so that they may live in peace
and harmony. If this basis be removed the whole fabric falls to ruin.

Such being the ends in view for the sovereign power, the duty of subjects is, as I have said,
to obey its commands, and to recognize no right save that which it sanctions.

It will, perhaps, be thought that we are turning subjects into slaves, for slaves obey commands
and free men live as they like; but this idea is based on a misconception, for the true slave
is he who is led away by his pleasures and can neither see what is good for him nor act accordingly:
he alone is free who lives with free consent under the entire guidance of reason.

Action in obedience to orders does take away freedom in a certain sense, but it does not, therefore,
make a man a slave; all depends on the object of the action. If the object of the action be
the good of the state, and not the good of the agent, the latter is a slave and does himself
no good; but in a state or kingdom where the weal of the whole people, and not that of the
ruler, is the supreme law, obedience to the sovereign power does not make a man a slave, of
no use to himself, but a subject. Therefore, that state is the freest whose laws are founded
on sound reason, so that every member of it may, if he will, be free;[34] that is, live with
full consent under the entire guidance of reason.

Children, though they are bound to obey all the commands of their parents, are yet not slaves;
for the commands of parents look generally to the children's benefit.

We must, therefore, acknowledge a great difference between a slave, a son, and a subject; their
positions may be thus defined. A slave is one who is bound to obey his master's orders, though
they are given solely in the master's interest; a son is one who obeys his father's orders,
given in his own interest; a subject obeys the orders of the sovereign power, given for the
common interest, wherein he is included.

I think I have now shown sufficiently clearly the basis of a democracy. I have especially desired
to do so, for I believe it to be of all forms of government the most natural, and the most
consonant with individual liberty. In it no one transfers his natural right so absolutely that
he has no further voice in affairs; he only hands it over to the majority of a society, whereof
he is a unit. Thus all men remain, as they were in the state of Nature, equals.

This is the only form of government which I have treated of at length, for it is the one most
akin to my purpose of showing the benefits of freedom in a state.

I may pass over the fundamental principles of other forms of government, for we may gather
from what has been said whence their right arises without going into its origin. The possessor
of sovereign power, whether he be one, or many, or the whole body politic, has the sovereign
right of imposing any commands he pleases; and he who has either voluntarily, or under compulsion,
transferred the right to defend him to another, has, in so doing, renounced his natural right
and is therefore bound to obey, in all things, the commands of the sovereign power; and will
be bound so to do so long as the king, or nobles, or the people preserve the sovereign power
which formed the basis of the original transfer. I need add no more.

The bases and rights of dominion being thus displayed, we shall readily be able to define private
civil right, wrong, justice, and injustice, with their relations to the state; and also to
determine what constitutes an ally, or an enemy, or the crime of treason.

By private civil right we can only mean the liberty every man possesses to preserve his existence,
a liberty limited by the edicts of the sovereign power, and preserved only by its authority.
For when a man has transferred to another his right of living as he likes, which was only limited
by his power, that is, has transferred his liberty and power of self-defense, he is bound to
live as that other dictates, and to trust to him entirely for his defense. Wrong takes place
when a citizen, or subject, is forced by another to undergo some loss or pain in contradiction
to the authority of the law, or the edict of the sovereign power.

Wrong is conceivable only in an organized community; nor can it ever accrue to subjects from
any act of the sovereign, who has the right to do what he likes. It can only arise, therefore,
between private persons, who are bound by law and right not to injure one another. Justice
consists in the habitual rendering to every man his lawful due; injustice consists in depriving
a man, under the pretense of legality, of what the laws, rightly interpreted, would allow him.
These last are also called equity and inequity, because those who administer the laws are bound
to show no respect of persons, but to account all men equal, and to defend every man's right
equally, neither envying the rich nor despising the poor.

The men of two states become allies, when for the sake of avoiding war, or for some other advantage,
they covenant to do each other no hurt, but, on the contrary, to assist each other if necessity
arises, each retaining his independence. Such a covenant is valid so long as its basis of danger
or advantage is in force: no one enters into an engagement, or is bound to stand by his compacts
unless there be a hope of some accruing good, or the fear of some evil: if this basis be removed
the compact thereby becomes void: this has been abundantly shown by experience. For although
different states make treaties not to harm one another, they always take every possible precaution
against such treaties being broken by the stronger party, and do not rely on the compact, unless
there is a sufficiently obvious object and advantage to both parties in observing it. Otherwise
they would fear a breach of faith, nor would there be any wrong done thereby; for who in his
proper senses, and aware of the right of the sovereign power, would trust in the promises of
one who has the will and the power to do what he likes, and who aims solely at the safety and
advantage of his dominion? Moreover, if we consult loyalty and religion, we shall see that
no one in possession of power ought to abide by his promises to the injury of his dominion;
for he cannot keep such promises without breaking the engagement he made with his subjects,
by which both he and they are most solemnly bound.

An enemy is one who lives apart from the state, and does not recognize its authority either
as a subject or as an ally. It is not hatred which makes a man an enemy, but the rights of
the state. The rights of the state are the same in regard to him who does not recognize by
any compact the state authority, as they are against him who has done the state an injury.
It has the right to force him, as best it can, either to submit, or to contract an alliance.

Lastly, treason can only be committed by subjects, who by compact, either tacit or expressed,
have transferred all their rights to the state. A subject is said to have committed this crime
when he has attempted, for whatever reason, to seize the sovereign power, or to place it in
different hands. I say, has attempted, for if punishment were not to overtake him till he had
succeeded, it would often come too late, the sovereign rights would have been acquired or transferred
already.

I also say, has attempted, for whatever reasons, to seize the sovereign power, and I recognize
no difference whether such an attempt should be followed by public loss or public gain. Whatever
be his reason for acting, the crime is treason, and he is rightly condemned. In war, every
one would admit the justice of his sentence. If a man does not keep to his post, but approaches
the enemy without the knowledge of his commander, whatever may be his motive, so long as he
acts on his own motion, even if he advances with the design of defeating the enemy, he is rightly
put to death, because he has violated his oath, and infringed the rights of his commander.
That all citizens are equally bound by these rights in time of peace, is not so generally recognized,
but the reasons for obedience are in both cases identical. The state must be preserved and
directed by the sole authority of the sovereign, and such authority and right have been accorded
by universal consent to him alone. If, therefore, any one else attempts, without his consent,
to execute any public enterprise, even though the state might (as we said) reap benefit therefrom,
such person has none the less infringed the sovereign's right, and would be rightly punished
for treason.

In order that every scruple may be removed, we may now answer the inquiry, whether our former
assertion that every one who has not the practice of reason, may, in the state of Nature, live
by sovereign natural right, according to the laws of his desires, is not in direct opposition
to the law and right of God as revealed. For as all men absolutely (whether they be less endowed
with reason or more) are equally bound by the Divine command to love their neighbor as themselves,
it may be said that they cannot, without wrong, do injury to any one, or live according to
their desires.

This objection, so far as the state of Nature is concerned, can be easily answered, for the
state of Nature is, both in nature and in time, prior to religion. No one knows by nature that
he owes any obedience to God,[35] nor can he attain thereto by any exercise of his reason,
but solely by revelation confirmed by signs. Therefore, previous to revelation, no one is bound
by a Divine law and right of which he is necessarily in ignorance. The state of Nature must
by no means be confounded with a state of religion, but must be conceived as without either
religion or law, and consequently without sin or wrong. This is how we have described it, and
we are confirmed by the authority of Paul. It is not only in respect of ignorance that we conceive
the state of Nature as prior to, and lacking the Divine revealed law and right; but in respect
of freedom also, wherewith all men are born endowed....

It may be insisted that sovereigns are as much bound by the Divine law as subjects; whereas
we have asserted that they retain their natural rights, and may do whatever they like.

In order to clear up the whole difficulty, which arises rather concerning the natural right
than the natural state, I maintain that every one is bound, in the state of Nature, to live
according to Divine law, in the same way as he is bound to live according to the dictates of
sound reason; namely, inasmuch as it is to his advantage, and necessary for his salvation;
but, if he will not so live, he may do otherwise at his own risk. He is thus bound to live
according to his own laws, not according to any one else's, and to recognize no man as a judge,
or as a superior in religion. Such, in my opinion, is the position of a sovereign, for he may
take advice from his fellow men, but he is not bound to recognize any as a judge, nor any one
besides himself as an arbitrator on any question of right, unless it be a prophet sent expressly
by God and attesting his mission by indisputable signs. Even then he does not recognize a man,
but God Himself as his judge.

If a sovereign refuses to obey God as revealed in His law, he does so at his own risk and loss,
but without violating any civil or natural right. For the civil right is dependent on his own
decree; and natural right is dependent on the laws of Nature, which latter are not adapted
to religion, whose sole aim is the good of humanity, but to the order of Nature--that is, to
God's eternal decree unknown to us.

This truth seems to be adumbrated in a somewhat obscurer form by those who maintain that men
can sin against God's revelation, but not against the eternal decree by which He has ordained
all things....

FOOTNOTES:

[32] From the Tr. Th.-P., ch. xvi, same title.

[33] In the state of social life, where general right determines what is good or evil, stratagem
is rightly distinguished as of two kinds, good and evil. But in the state of Nature, where
every man is his own judge, possessing the absolute right to lay down laws for himself, to
interpret them as he pleases, or to abrogate them if he thinks it convenient, it is not conceivable
that stratagem should be evil.

[34] Whatever be the social state a man finds himself in, he may be free. For certainly a man
is free, in so far as he is led by reason. Now reason (though Hobbes thinks otherwise) is always
on the side of peace, which cannot be attained unless the general laws of the state be respected.
Therefore the more a man is led by reason--in other words, the more he is free, the more constantly
will he respect the laws of his country, and obey the commands of the sovereign power to which
he is subject. As regards the Divine natural law whereof the chief commandment is, as we have
said, to love God, I have called it a law in the same sense, as philosophers style laws those
general rules of Nature, according to which everything happens. For the love of God is not
a state of obedience: it is a virtue which necessarily exists in a man who knows God rightly.
Obedience has regard to the will of a ruler, not to necessity and truth. Now as we are ignorant
of the nature of God's will, and on the other hand know that everything happens solely by God's
power, we cannot, except through revelation, know whether God wishes in any way to be honored
as a sovereign.

Again; we have shown that the Divine rights appear to us in the light of rights or commands,
only so long as we are ignorant of their cause: as soon as their cause is known, they cease
to be rights, and we embrace them no longer as rights but as eternal truths; in other words,
obedience passes into love of God, which emanates from true knowledge as necessarily as light
emanates from the sun. Reason then leads us to love God, but cannot lead us to obey Him; for
we cannot embrace the commands of God as Divine, while we are in ignorance of their cause,
neither can we rationally conceive God as a sovereign laying down laws as a sovereign.

CHAPTER XVII

OF SUPREME AUTHORITIES

I

Of the Right of Supreme Authorities[36]

Under every dominion the state is said to be Civil; but the entire body subject to a dominion
is called a Commonwealth, and the general business of the dominion, subject to the direction
of him that holds it, has the name of Affairs of State. Next we call men Citizens, as far as
they enjoy by the civil law all the advantages of the commonwealth, and Subjects, as far as
they are bound to obey its ordinances or laws. Lastly ... of the civil state there are three
kinds--democracy, aristocracy and monarchy. Now, before I begin to treat of each kind separately,
I will first deduce all the properties of the civil state in general. And of these, first of
all comes to be considered the supreme right of the commonwealth, or the right of the supreme
authorities.

It is clear that the right of the supreme authorities is nothing else than simple natural right,
limited, indeed, by the power, not of every individual, but of the multitude, which is guided,
as it were, by one mind--that is, as each individual in the state of Nature, so the body and
mind of a dominion have as much right as they have power. And thus each single citizen or subject
has the less right, the more the commonwealth exceeds him in power, and each citizen consequently
does and has nothing but what he may by the general decree of the commonwealth defend.

If the commonwealth grant to any man the right, and therewith the authority (for else it is
but a gift of words) to live after his own mind, by that very act it abandons its own right,
and transfers the same to him, to whom it has given such authority. But if it has given this
authority to two or more, I mean authority to live each after his own mind, by that very act
it has divided the dominion, and if, lastly, it has given this same authority to every citizen,
it has thereby destroyed itself, and there remains no more a commonwealth, but everything returns
to the state of Nature; all of which is very manifest from what goes before. And thus it follows,
that it can by no means be conceived, that every citizen should by the ordinance of the commonwealth
live after his own mind, and accordingly this natural right of being one's own judge ceases
in the civil state. I say expressly "by the ordinance of the commonwealth," for if we weigh
the matter aright, the natural right of every man does not cease in the civil state. For man,
alike in the natural and in the civil state, acts according to the laws of his own nature,
and consults his own interest. Man, I say, in each state is led by fear or hope to do or leave
undone this or that; but the main difference between the two states is this, that in the civil
state all fear the same things, and all have the same ground of security, and manner of life;
and this certainly does not do away with the individual's faculty of judgment. For he that
is minded to obey all the commonwealth's orders, whether through fear of its power or through
love of quiet, certainly consults after his own heart his own safety and interest.

Moreover, we cannot even conceive, that every citizen should be allowed to interpret the commonwealth's
decrees or laws. For were every citizen allowed this, he would thereby be his own judge, because
each would easily be able to give a color of right to his own deeds, which by the last section
is absurd.

