WHAT THE SCHOOLS TEACH AND MIGHT TEACH

by

FRANKLIN BOBBITT Assistant Professor of Educational Administration The University of Chicago

1915

CLEVELAND EDUCATION SURVEY Leonard P. Ayres, Director

The Survey Committee of the Cleveland Foundation Cleveland, Ohio

  Charles E. Adams, Chairman
  Thomas G. Fitzsimons
  Myrta L. Jones
  Bascom Little
  Victor W. Sincere

  Arthur D. Baldwin, Secretary
  James R. Garfield, Counsel
  Newton D. Baker, Counsel
  Alien T. Burns, Director

FOREWORD

This report on "What the Schools Teach and Might Teach" is one of the 25 sections of the report
of the Education Survey of Cleveland conducted by the Survey Committee of the Cleveland Foundation
in 1915. Twenty-three of these sections will be published as separate monographs. In addition
there will be a larger volume giving a summary of the findings and recommendations relating
to the regular work of the public schools, and a second similar volume giving the summary of
those sections relating to industrial education. Copies of all these publications may be obtained
from the Cleveland Foundation. They may also be obtained from the Division of Education of
the Russell Sage Foundation, New York City. A complete list will be found in the back of this
volume, together with prices.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  Foreword
  List of Tables
  Prefatory Statement
  The Point of View
  Reading and Literature
  Spelling
  Handwriting
  Language, Composition, Grammar
  Mathematics
    Algebra
    Geometry
  History
  Civics
  Geography
  Drawing and Applied Art
  Manual Training and Household Arts
  Elementary Science
  High School Science
  Physiology and Hygiene
  Physical Training
  Music
  Foreign Languages
  Differentiation of Courses
  Summary

LIST OF TABLES

  TABLE
    1. Time given to reading and literature
    2. Sets of supplementary reading books per building
    3. Weeks given to reading of different books in
       High School of Commerce
    4. Time given to spelling
    5. Time given to handwriting
    6. Time given to language, composition, and grammar
    7. Time given to arithmetic
    8. Time given to history
    9. Time given to geography
   10. Time given to drawing
   11. Time given to manual training
   12. Time given to science, physiology, hygiene
   13. Time given to physical training
   14. Time given to music

PREFATORY STATEMENT

For an understanding of some of the characteristics of this report it is necessary to mention
certain of the conditions under which it was prepared.

The printed course of study for the elementary schools to be found in June, 1915, the time
the facts were gathered for this report, was prepared under a former administration. While
its main outlines were still held to, it was being departed from in individual schools in many
respects. Except occasionally it was not possible to find record of such departures. It was
believed that to accept the printed manual as representing current procedure would do frequent
injustice to thoughtful, constructive workers within the system. But it must be remembered
that courses of study for the city cover the work of twelve school years in a score and more
of subjects, distributed through a hundred buildings. Only a small fraction of this comprehensive
program is going on during any week of the school year; and of this fraction only a relatively
small amount could actually be visited by one man in the time possible to devote to the task.
In the absence of records of work done or of work projected, unduly large weight had to be
given to the recommendations set down in the latest published course of study manual.

New courses of study were being planned for the elementary schools. This in itself indicated
that the manual could not longer be regarded as an authoritative expression of the ideas of
the administration. Yet with the exception of a good arithmetic course and certain excellent
beginnings of a geography course, little indication could be found as to what the details of
the new courses were to be. The present report has had to be written at a time when the administration
by its acts was rejecting the courses of study laid out in the old manual, and yet before the
new courses were formulated. Under the circumstances it was not a safe time for setting forth
the facts, since not even the administration knew yet what the new courses were to be in their
details. It was not a safe time to be either praising or blaming course of study requirements.
The situation was too unformed for either. In the matter of the curriculum, the city was confessedly
on the eve of a large constructive program. Its face was toward the future, and not toward
the past; not even toward the present.

It was felt that if the brief space at the disposal of this report could also look chiefly
toward the future, and present constructive recommendations concerning things that observation
indicated should be kept in mind, it would accomplish its largest service. The time that the
author spent in Cleveland was mostly used in observations in the schools, in consultation with
teachers and supervisors, and in otherwise ascertaining what appeared to be the main outlines
of practice in the various subjects. This was thought to be the point at which further constructive
labors would necessarily begin.

The recommendation of a thing in this report does not indicate that it has hitherto been non-existent
or unrecognized in the system. The intention rather is an economical use of the brief space
at our disposal in calling attention to what appear to be certain fundamental principles of
curriculum-making that seem nowadays more and more to be employed by judicious constructive
workers.

The occasional pointing out of incomplete development of the work of the system is not to be
regarded as criticism. Both school people and community should remember that since schools
are to fit people for social conditions, and since these conditions are continually changing,
the work of the schools must correspondingly change. Social growth is never complete; it is
especially rapid in our generation. The work of education in preparing for these ever-new conditions
can likewise never be complete, crystallized, perfected. It must grow and change as fast as
social conditions make such changes necessary. To point out such further growth-needs is not
criticism. The intention is to present the disinterested, detached view of the outsider who,
although he knows indefinitely less than those within the system about the details of the work,
can often get the perspective rather better just because his mind is not filled with the details.

THE POINT OF VIEW

There is an endless, and perhaps worldwide, controversy as to what constitutes the "essentials"
of education; and as to the steps to be taken in the teaching of these essentials. The safe
plan for constructive workers appears to be to avoid personal educational philosophies and
to read all the essentials of education within the needs and processes of the community itself.
Since we are using this social point of view in making curriculum suggestions for Cleveland,
it seems desirable first to explain just what we mean. Some of the matters set down may appear
so obvious as not to require expression. They need, however, to be presented again because
of the frequency with which they are lost sight of in actual school practice.

Children and youth are expected as they grow up to take on by easy stages the characteristics
of adulthood. At the end of the process it is expected that they will be able to do the things
that adults do; to think as they think; to bear adult responsibilities; to be efficient in
work; to be thoughtful public-spirited citizens; and the like. The individual who reaches this
level of attainment is educated, even though he may never have attended school. The one who
falls below this level is not truly educated, even though he may have had a surplus of schooling.

To bring one's nature to full maturity, as represented by the best of the adult community in
which one grows up, is true education for life in that community. Anything less than this falls
short of its purpose. Anything other than this is education misdirected.

In very early days, when community life was simple, practically all of one's education was
obtained through participating in community activities, and without systematic teaching. From
that day to this, however, the social world has been growing more complex. Adults have developed
kinds of activities so complicated that youth cannot adequately enter into them and learn them
without systematic teaching. At first these things were few; with the years they have grown
very numerous.

One of the earliest of these too-complicated activities was written language--reading, writing,
spelling. These matters became necessities to the adult world; but youth under ordinary circumstances
could not participate in them as performed by adults sufficiently to master them. They had
to be taught; and the school thereby came into existence. A second thing developed about the
same time was the complicated number system used by adults. It was too difficult for youth
to master through participation only. It too had to be taught, and it offered a second task
for the schools. In the early schools this teaching of the so-called Three R's was all that
was needed, because these were the only adult activities that had become so complicated as
to require systematized teaching. Other things were still simple enough, so that young people
could enter into them sufficiently for all necessary education.

As community vision widened and men's affairs came to extend far beyond the horizon, a need
arose for knowledge of the outlying world. This knowledge could rarely be obtained sufficiently
through travel and observation. There arose the new need for the systematic teaching of geography.
What had hitherto not been a human necessity and therefore not an educational essential became
both because of changed social conditions.

Looking at education from this social point of view it is easy to see that there was a time
when no particular need existed for history, drawing, science, vocational studies, civics,
etc., beyond what one could acquire by mingling with one's associates in the community. These
were therefore not then essentials for education. It is just as easy to see that changed social
conditions of the present make necessary for every one a fuller and more systematic range of
ideas in each of these fields than one can pick up incidentally. These things have thereby
become educational essentials. Whether a thing today is an educational "essential" or not seems
to depend upon two things: whether it is a human necessity today; and whether it is so complex
or inaccessible as to require systematic teaching. The number of "essentials" changes from
generation to generation. Those today who proclaim the Three R's as the sole "essentials" appear
to be calling from out the rather distant past. Many things have since become essential; and
other things are being added year by year. The normal method of education in things not yet
put into the schools, is participation in those things. One gets his ideas from watching others
and then learns to do by doing. There is no reason to believe that as the school lends its
help to some of the more difficult things, this normal plan of learning can be set aside and
another substituted. Of course the schools must take in hand the difficult portions of the
process. Where complicated knowledge is needed, the schools must teach that knowledge. Where
drill is required, they must give the drill. But the knowledge and the drill should be given
in their relation to the human activities in which they are used. As the school helps young
people to take on the nature of adulthood, it will still do so by helping them to enter adequately
into the activities of adulthood. Youth will learn to think, to judge, and to do, by thinking,
judging, and doing. They will acquire a sense of responsibility by bearing responsibility.
They will take on serious forms of thought by doing the serious things which require serious
thought.

It cannot be urged that young people have a life of their own which is to be lived only for
youth's sake and without reference to the adult world about them. As a matter of fact children
and youth are a part of the total community of which the mature adults are the natural and
responsible leaders. At an early age they begin to perform adult activities, to take on adult
points of view, to bear adult responsibilities. Naturally it is done in ways appropriate to
their natures. At first it is imitative play, constructive play, etc.--nature's method of bringing
children to observe the serious world about them, and to gird themselves for entering into
it. The next stage, if normal opportunities are provided, is playful participation in the activities
of their elders. This changes gradually into serious participation as they grow older, becoming
at the end of the process responsible adult action. It is not possible to determine the educational
materials and processes at any stage of growth without looking at the same time to that entire
world of which youth forms a part, and in which the nature and abilities of their elders point
the goal of their training.

The social point of view herein expressed is sometimes characterized as being utilitarian.
It may be so; but not in any narrow or undesirable sense. It demands that training be as wide
as life itself. It looks to human activities of every type: religious activities; civic activities;
the duties of one's calling; one's family duties; one's recreations; one's reading and meditation;
and the rest of the things that are done by the complete man or woman.

READING AND LITERATURE

The amount of time given to reading in the elementary schools of Cleveland, and the average
time in 50 other cities[A] are shown in the following table:

  TABLE 1.--TIME GIVEN TO READING AND LITERATURE
  ========================================================
         |    Hours per year     | Per cent of grade time
         |-----------------------|------------------------
   Grade | Cleveland | 50 cities | Cleveland | 50 cities
  --------------------------------------------------------
     1   |    317    |    266    |     43    |     31
     2   |    317    |    235    |     36    |     26
     3   |    279    |    188    |     32    |     21
     4   |    196    |    153    |     22    |     16
     5   |    161    |    126    |     18    |     13
     6   |    136    |    117    |     15    |     12
     7   |    152    |     98    |     17    |     10
     8   |    152    |     97    |     17    |     10
  ========================================================
   Total |   1710    |   1280    |     25    |     17
  --------------------------------------------------------

During the course of his school life, each pupil who finishes the elementary grades in Cleveland
receives 1710 hours of recitation and directed study in reading as against an average of 1280
hours in progressive cities in general. This is an excess of 430 hours, or 34 per cent. The
annual cost of teaching reading being about $600,000, this represents an excess annual investment
in this subject of some $150,000. Whether or not this excess investment in reading is justified
depends, of course, upon the way the time is used. If the city is aiming only at the usual
mastery of the mechanics of reading and the usual introductory acquaintance with simple works
of literary art, it appears that Cleveland is using more time and labor than other cities consider
needful. If, on the other hand, this city is using the excess time for widely diversified reading
chosen for its content value in revealing the great fields of history, industry, applied science,
manners and customs in other lands, travel, exploration, inventions, biography, etc., and in
fixing life-long habits of intelligent reading, then it is possible that it is just this excess
time that produces the largest educational returns upon the investment.

[Footnote A: Henry W. Holmes, "Time Distribution by Subjects and Grades in Representative Cities."
In the Fourteenth Year Book of the National Society for the Study of Education, Part I, 1915.
University of Chicago Press.]

It would seem, however, from a careful study of the actual work and an examination of the printed
documents, that the chief purpose of teaching reading in this city is, to use the terminology
of its latest manual, "easy expressive oral reading in rich, well-modulated tone." It is true
that other aims are mentioned, such as enlargement of vocabulary, word-study, understanding
of expressions and allusions, acquaintance with the leading authors, appreciation of "beautiful
expressions," etc. Properly emphasized, each of these purposes is valid; but there are other
equally valid ends to be achieved through proper choice of the reading-content that are not
mentioned. There is here no criticism of the purposes long accepted, but of the apparent failure
to recognize other equally important ones. The character of the reading-content is referred
to only in the recommendation that in certain grades it should relate to the seasons and to
special occasions. Even in reference to the supplementary reading, where content should be
the first concern, the only statement of purpose is that "children should read for the joy
of it." Unfortunately, this mistaken emphasis is not at all uncommon among the schools of the
nation. How one reads has received an undue amount of attention; what one reads in the school
courses must and will receive an increasingly large share of time and thought, in the new evaluation.
The use of interesting and valuable books for other educational purposes at the same time that
they are used for drill in the mechanics of reading is coming more and more to be recognized
as an improved mode of procedure. The mechanical side of reading is not thereby neglected.
It is given its proper function and relation, and can therefore be better taught.

So far as one can see, Cleveland is attempting in the reading work little more than the traditional
thing. The thirty-four per cent excess time may be justified by the city on the theory that
the schools are commissioned to get the work done one-third better than in the average city.
The reading tests made by the Survey fail to reveal any such superiority. The city appears
to be getting no better than average results.

Certainly people should read well and effectively in all ways in which they will be called
upon to read in their adult affairs. For the most part this means reading for ideas, suggestions,
and information in connection with the things involved in their several callings; in connection
with their civic problems; for recreation; and for such general social enlightenment as comes
from newspapers, magazines, and books. Most reading will be for the content. It is desirable
that the reading be easy and rapid, and that one gather in all the ideas as one reads. Because
of the fact that oral reading is slower, more laborious for both reader and listener, and because
of the present easy accessibility of printed matter, oral reading is becoming of steadily diminishing
importance to adults. No longer should the central educational purpose be the development of
expressive oral reading. It should be rapid and effective silent reading for the sake of the
thought read.

To train an adult generation to read for the thought, schools must give children full practice
in reading for the thought in the ways in which later as adults they should read. After the
primary teachers have taught the elements, the work should be mainly voluminous reading for
the sake of entering into as much of the world's thought and experience as possible. The work
ought to be rather more extensive than intensive. The chief end should be the development of
that wide social vision and understanding which is so much needed in this complicated cosmopolitan
age. While works of literary art should constitute a considerable portion of the reading program,
they should not monopolize the program, nor indeed should they be regarded as the most important
part of it. It is history, travel, current news, biography, advance in the world of industry
and applied science, discussions of social relations, political adjustments, etc., which adults
need mostly to read; and it is by the reading of these things that children form desirable
and valuable reading habits.

The reading curriculum needs to be looked after in two important ways. First, social standards
of judgment should determine the nature of the reading. The texts beyond the primary grades
are now for the most part selections of literary art. Very little of it has any conscious relation,
immediate or remote, to present-day problems and conditions or with their historical background.
Probably children should read many more selections of literary art than are found in the textbooks
and the supplementary sets now owned by the schools. But certainly such cultural literary experience
ought not to crowd out kinds of reading that are of much greater practical value. Illumination
of the things of serious importance in the everyday world of human affairs should have a large
place in reading work of every school.

It is true that the supplementary sets of books have been chosen chiefly for their content
value. Many are historical, biographical, geographical, scientific, civic, etc., in character.
On the side of content, they have advanced much farther than the textbooks toward what should
constitute a proper reading course. Unfortunately, the schools are very incompletely supplied
with these sets. If we consider all the sets of supplementary readers found in 10 or more schools,
we find that few of those assigned for fourth-grade reading are found in one-quarter of the
buildings and none are in half of them. The same is true of the books for use in the fifth
and seventh grades. Some of the books for the sixth and eighth grades are found in more than
half of the buildings, but there is none that is found in as many as three-quarters of them.

The second thing greatly needed to improve the reading course is more reading practice. One
learns to do a thing easily, rapidly, and effectively by practice. The course of study in reading
should therefore provide the opportunity for much practice. At present the reading texts used
aggregate for the eight grades some 2100 pages. A third-grade child ought to read matter suitable
for its intelligence at 20 pages per hour, and a grammar-grade child at 30 to 40 pages per
hour. Since rapidity of reading is one of the desired ends, the practice reading should be
rapid. At the moderate rates mentioned, the entire series of reading texts ought to be read
in some 80 hours. This is 10 hours' practice for each of the eight school years, an altogether
insufficient amount of rapid reading practice. Of course the texts can be read twice, or let
us say three times, aggregating 30 hours of practice per year. But even this is not more than
could easily be accomplished in two or three weeks of each of the years--always presuming that
the reading materials are rightly adapted to the mental maturity of the pupils. This leaves
35 weeks of the year unprovided for. To make good this deficit, the buildings are furnished
with supplementary books in sets sufficiently large to supply entire classes. The average number
of such sets per building is shown in the following table:

  TABLE 2.--SETS OF SUPPLEMENTARY READING BOOKS PER BUILDING

  Grade   Average number of sets
    1             10.0
    2              6.3
    3              5.1
    4              5.5
    5              6.3
    6              5.3
    7              5.5
    8              6.0

A fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth-grade student ought to be able to read all the materials
supplied his grade, both reading texts and all kinds of supplementary reading, in 40 or 50
hours. He ought to do it easily in six weeks' work, without encroaching on recitation time.
He can read all of it twice in 10 weeks; and three times in 14 weeks. After reading everything
three times over, there still remain 24 weeks of each year unprovided for.

The reply of teachers is that the work is so difficult that it has to be slowed down enough
to consume these 24 weeks. But is not this to admit that the hill is too steep, that there
is too much dead pull, and that the materials are ill-chosen for practice in habits of rapid
intelligent reading? It is not by going slow that one learns to go fast. Quite the reverse.
Too often the school runs on low speed gear when it ought to be running on high. The low may
be necessary for the starting, but not for the running. It may be necessary in the primary
grades, but not thereafter for those who have had a normal start. Reading practice should certainly
make for increased speed in effective reading.

The actual work in the grades is very different from the plan suggested. In taking up any selection
for reading, the plan in most schools is about as follows:

1. A list of the unusual words met with is written on the blackboard.

2. Teacher and pupils discuss the meaning of these words; but unfortunately words out of the
context often carry no meaning.

3. The words are marked diacritically, and pronounced.

4. Pupils "use the words in sentences." The pupil frequently has nothing to say that involves
the word. It is only given an imitation of a real use by being put into an artificial sentence.

5. The oral reading is begun. One pupil reads a paragraph.

6. With the book removed, the meaning of the paragraph is then reproduced either by the reader
or some other pupil. This work is necessarily perfunctory because the pupil knows he is not
giving information to anybody. Everybody within hearing already has the meaning fresh in mind
from the previous reading. The normal child cannot work up enthusiasm for oral reproduction
under such conditions.

7. The paragraph is analyzed into its various elements, and these in turn are discussed in detail.

Such work is not reading. It is analysis. A selection is not read, it is analyzed. The purpose
of real reading is to enter into the thought and emotional experience of the writer; not to
study the methods by which the author expressed himself. The net result when the work is done
as described is to develop a critical consciousness of methods, without helping the children
to enter normally and rightly into the experience of the writer. The children of Cleveland
need this genuine training in reading.

Reading in the high schools needs very much the same sort of modernization. There are more
kinds of literature than classical belles-lettres, and perhaps more important kinds. We would
not advocate a reduction of the amount of aesthetic literature. Indeed, the young people of
Cleveland need to enter into a far wider range of such literature than is the case at present.
But the reading courses in high schools should be built out in ways already recommended for
elementary schools.

The training, however, should be mainly in reading and not in analysis. The former is of surpassing
importance to all people; the latter is important only to certain specialists. And, what is
more, fullness of reading and right ways of reading will accomplish incidentally most of the
things aimed at in the analysis.

The following table of the reading outline of the High School of Commerce is a fair sample
of what the city is doing. Note how much time is given to the reading and analysis of the few
selections covered in four years.

TABLE 3.--WEEKS GIVEN TO READING OF DIFFERENT BOOKS IN HIGH SCHOOL OF COMMERCE

                                 Weeks to read
  First Year
    Ashmun's Prose Selections          9
    Cricket on the Hearth              5
    Sohrab and Rustum                  3
    Midsummer Night's Dream            6
    Ivanhoe                           11

  Second Year
    Autobiography of Franklin          7
    Idylls of the King                10
    Treasure Island                    7
    Sketch Book                        7
    Vision of Sir Launfal              3

  Third Year
    Silas Marner                       7
    Iliad (Bryant's--4 books)          5
    Washington's Farewell Address      5
    First Bunker Hill Oration          6
    Emerson's Compensation             5
    Roosevelt Book                     6

  Fourth Year
    Markham's The Man with the Hoe     2
    Tale of Two Cities                10
    Public Duty of the Educated Man    4
    Macbeth                           11
    Self-Reliance                      6

When a short play of a hundred pages like Macbeth requires nearly three months for reading,
when almost two months are given to Treasure Island and nearly three months to Ivanhoe, clearly
it is something other than reading that is being attempted. It is perfectly obvious that the
high schools are attending principally to the mechanics of expression and not to the content
of the expression. The relative emphasis should be reversed.

The amount of reading in the high schools should be greatly increased. Those who object that
rapid work is superficial believe that work must be slow to be thorough. It should be remembered,
however, that slow work is often superficial and that rapid work is often excellent. In fact
the world's best workers are generally rapid, accurate, and thorough. Ask any business man
of wide experience. Now leaving aside pupils who are slow by nature, it can be affirmed that
pupils will acquire slow, thorough habits or rapid, thorough habits according to the way they
are taught. If they are brought up by the slow plan, naturally when speeded up suddenly, the
quality of their work declines. They can be rapid, accurate, and thorough only if such strenuous
work begins early and is continued consistently. Slow habits are undesirable if better ones
can just as well be implanted.

To avoid possible misunderstanding, it ought to be stated that the plan recommended does not
mean less drill upon the mechanical side of reading. We are recommending a somewhat more modernized
kind of mechanics, and a much more strenuous kind of drill. The plan looks both toward more
reading and improved habits of reading.

One final suggestion finds here its logical place. Before the reading work of elementary or
high schools can be modernized, the city must purchase the books used in the work. Leaving
the supplying of books to private purchase is the largest single obstacle in the way of progress.
Men in the business world will have no difficulty in seeing the logic of this. When shoes,
for example, were made by hand, each workman could easily supply his own tools; but now that
elaborate machinery has been devised for their manufacture, it has become so expensive that
a machine factory must supply the tools. It is so in almost every field of labor where efficiency
has been introduced. Now the books to be read are the tools in the teaching of reading. In
a former day when a mastery of the mechanics of reading was all that seemed to be needed, the
privately purchased textbook could suffice. In our day when other ends are set up beyond and
above those of former days, a far more elaborate and expensive equipment is required. The city
must now supply the educational tools. It is well to face this issue candidly and to state
the facts plainly. Relative failure can be the only possible lot of reluctant communities.
They can count on it with the same assurance as that of a manufacturer of shoes who attempts
to employ the methods of former days in competition with modern methods.

In this city the expenditures for supplementary textbooks have amounted to something more than
$31,000 in the past 10 years. Approximately one-third of this sum was spent in the first seven
years of the decade and more than $20,000 in the past three years. This indicates the rapid
advance in this direction made under the present school administration but the supply of books
still falls far short of the needs of the schools. A fair start has been made but nothing should
be permitted to obstruct rapid progress in this direction.

SPELLING

Cleveland has set apart an average amount of program time for spelling. Possibly the study
might more accurately be called word-study, since it aims also at training for pronunciation,
syllabification, vocabulary extension, and etymology. Since much of the reading time is given
to similar word-study, the figures presented in Table 4 are really too small to represent actual
practice in Cleveland. Their pronunciation, division into syllables, derivation, phonetic properties,
oral and written spelling and meaning, are all to be made clear to pupils.

"The teaching of a new word may be done by using it in a sentence; by definition or description;
by giving a synonym or the antonym; by illustration with object, action or drawing; and by
etymology.

"Each lesson should have also from eight to 20 subordinate words taken from textbook or composition
exercises.... Frequent supplementary dictation, word-building and phonic exercises should be
given. Spell much orally.... Teach a little daily, test thoroughly, drill intensively, and
follow up words misspelled persistently."

In most respects the work agrees with the usual practice in progressive cities: the teaching
of a few words in each lesson; the frequent and continuous review of words already taught;
taking the words to be taught from the language experience of the pupils; following up words
actually misspelled; studying the words from many angles, etc.

In some respects the work needs further modernization. The words chosen for the work are not
always the ones most needed. Whether children or adults, people need to spell only when they
write. They need to spell correctly the words of their writing vocabulary, and they need to
spell no others. More important still, they need to acquire the habit of watching their spelling
as they write; the habit of spelling every word with certainty that it is correct, and the
habit of going to word-lists or dictionary when there is any doubt.

This development of the habit of watchfulness over their spelling as they write is the principal
thing. One who has it will always spell well. In case he has much writing to do, it automatically
leads to a constant renewing of his memory for words used and prevents forgetting. The one
who has only memorized word-lists, even though they have been rigorously drilled, inevitably
forgets, whether rapidly or slowly; and in proportion as he lacks this general habit of watchfulness,
degenerates in his spelling. The reason why schools fail to overcome the frequent criticism
that young people do not spell well, is because of the fact that they have been trying to teach
specific words rather than to develop a general and constant watchfulness.

The fundamental training in spelling is accomplished in connection with composition, letter-writing,
etc. Direct word-list study should have only a secondary and supplemental place. It is needed,
first, for making people conscious of the letter elements of words which are seen as wholes
in their reading, and for bringing them to look closely into the relations of these letter
elements; second, for developing a preliminary understanding of the spelling of words used;
and third, for drill upon words commonly misspelled. While a necessary portion of the entire
process, it probably should not require so much time as is now given to it and the time saved
should be devoted to the major task of teaching spelling watchfulness in connection with writing
letters and compositions.

The great majority of the population of Cleveland will spell only as they write letters, receipts,
and simple memoranda. They do not need to spell a wide vocabulary with complete accuracy. On
the other hand, there are classes of people to whom a high degree of spelling accuracy covering
a fairly wide vocabulary is an indispensable vocational necessity: clerks, copyists, stenographers,
correspondents, compositors, proof-readers, etc. These people need an intensive specialized
training in spelling that is not needed by the mass of the population. Such specialized vocational
training should be taken care of by the Cleveland schools, but it should not be forced upon
all simply because the few need it. The attempt to bring all to the high level needed by the
few, and the failure to reach this level, is responsible for the justifiable criticism of the
schools that those few who need to spell unusually well are imperfectly trained.

The spelling practice should continue through the high school. It is only necessary for teachers
to refuse to accept written work that contains any misspelled word to force upon students the
habit of watchfulness over every word written. The High School of Commerce is to be commended
for making spelling a required portion of the training. The course needs to be more closely
knit with composition and business letter-writing.

HANDWRITING

Cleveland gives a considerably larger proportion of time to handwriting than the average of
the 50 cities. These matters are treated intensively in the section of the survey report entitled
"Measuring the Work of the Public Schools."

LANGUAGE, COMPOSITION, GRAMMAR

The schools devote about the usual amount of time to training for the correct use of the mother
tongue. Most of the time in intermediate and grammar grades is devoted to English grammar.
Composition receives only minor attention. Of course it is expected that this knowledge will
be of service to the pupils in their everyday expression. But such practical application of
the knowledge is not the thing toward which the work actually looks. The end really achieved
is rather the ability to recite well on textbook grammar, and to pass good examinations in
the subject. In classes visited the thing attempted was being done in a relatively effective
way. And when judged in the light of the kind of education considered best 20 years ago, the
work is of a superior character.

As a matter of fact, facility in oral and written expression is, like everything else, mainly
developed through much practice. The form and style of expression are perfected mainly through
the conscious and unconscious imitation of good models. Technical grammar plays, or should
play, the relatively minor role of assisting students to eliminate and to avoid certain types
of error. Since grammar has this perfectly practical function to perform, probably only those
things needed should be taught; but more important still, everything taught should be constantly
put to use by the pupils in their oversight of their own speech and writing. Only as knowledge
is put to work, is it really learned or assimilated. The schools should require much oral and
written expression of the pupils, and should enforce constant watchfulness of their own speech
on the part of the pupils. It is possible to require pupils to go over all of their written
work and to examine it, before handing it in, in the light of all the grammatical rules they
have learned. It is also possible for pupils to guard consciously against known types of error
which they are accustomed to make in their oral recitations. Every recitation in whatever subject
provides opportunity for such training in habits of watchfulness. Only as the pupil is brought
to do it himself, without prompting on the part of the teacher, is his education accomplished.

A limited amount of systematic grammatical teaching is a necessary preliminary step. The purpose
is an introductory acquaintance with certain basic forms, terminology, relationships, and grammatical
perspective. This should be accomplished rapidly. Like the preliminary survey in any field,
this stage of the work will be relatively superficial. Fullness and depth of understanding
will come with application. This preliminary understanding can not be learned "incidentally."
Such a plan fails on the side of perspective and relationship, which are precisely the things
in which the preparatory teaching of the subject should be strong.

This preliminary training in technical grammar need not be either so extensive or so intensive
as it is at present. An altogether disproportionate amount of time is now given to it. The
time saved ought to go to oral and written expression,--composition, we might call it, except
that the word has been spoiled because of the artificiality of the exercises.

The composition or expression most to be recommended consists of reports on the supplementary
reading in connection with history, geography, industrial studies, civics, sanitation, etc.;
and reports of observations on related matters in the community. Topics of interest and of
value are practically numberless. Such reports will usually be oral; but often they will be
written. Expression occurs naturally and normally only where there is something to be discussed.
The present manual suggests compositions based upon "changes in trees, dissemination of seeds,
migration of birds, snow, ice, clouds, trees, leaves, and flowers." This type of composition
program under present conditions cannot be a vital one. Elementary science is not taught in
the schools of Cleveland; and so the subject matter of these topics is not developed. Further,
it is the world of human action, revealed in history, geography, travels, accounts of industry,
commerce, manufacture, transportation, etc., that possesses the greater value for the purposes
of education, as well as far greater interest for the student.

Probably little time should be set apart on the program for composition. The expression side
of all the school work, both in the elementary school and in the high school, should be used
to give the necessary practice. The technical matters needed can be taught in occasional periods
set aside for that specific purpose.

The isolation of the composition work continues through the academic high schools and in considerable
degree through the technical high schools also. In the high schools the expression work probably
needs to be developed chiefly in the classes in science, history, industrial studies, commercial
and industrial geography, physics, etc., where the students have an abundance of things to
discuss. Probably four-fifths of all of the training in English expression in the high schools
should be accomplished in connection with the oral and written work of the other subjects.

MATHEMATICS

To arithmetic, the Cleveland schools are devoting a somewhat larger proportion of time than
the average of cities. Beyond this point, however, difficult problems arise. The probabilities
are that the social and vocational conditions of the coming generation will require that everybody
be more mathematical-minded than at present.

The content of mathematics courses is to be determined by human needs. One of the fundamental
needs of the age upon which we are now entering is accurate quantitative thinking in the fields
of one's vocation, in the supervision of our many co-operative governmental labors, in our
economic thinking with reference to taxation, expenditures, insurance, public utilities, civic
improvements, pensions, corporations, and the multitude of other civic and vocational matters.

Just as the thought involved in physics, astronomy, or engineering needs to be put in mathematical
terms in order that it may be used effectively, so must it be with effective vocational, civic,
and economic thinking in general. Our chief need is not so much the ability to do calculations
as it is the ability to think in figures and the habit of thinking in figures. Calculations,
while indispensable, are incidental to more important matters.

Naturally before one is prepared to use mathematical forms of thought in considering the many
social and vocational problems, he must have mastered the fundamentals. The elementary school,
at as early an age as practicable, should certainly give the necessary preliminary knowledge
of and practice in the fundamental operations of arithmetic. This should be done with a high
degree of thoroughness, but it should always be kept in mind that this is only a preliminary
mastery of the alphabet of mathematical thinking. The other part of our problem is a development
of the quantitative aspects of the vocational, economic, and civic subjects. One finds clear
recognition of this in Cleveland in the new arithmetic manual. The following quotations are
typical:

"The important problem of the seventh and eighth grades is to enable the pupils to understand
and deal intelligently with the most important social institutions with which arithmetical
processes are associated."

In discussing the teaching of the mathematical aspect of insurance, we find this statement:
"Owing to the important place this subject holds in life, we should emphasize its informational
value rather than its mathematical content."

Under taxation and revenue: "If the general features of this subject are presented from the
standpoint of civics, the pupils should have no difficulty in solving the problems as no new
principle is introduced."

Under stocks and bonds: "Pupils should be taught to know what a corporation is, its chief officers,
how it is organized, what stocks and bonds are, and how dividends are declared and paid, in
so far as such knowledge is needed by the general public."

These statements indicate a recognition of the most important principle that should control
in the development of all of the mathematics, elementary and secondary, beyond the preliminary
training needed for accuracy and rapidity in the fundamental operations.

When this principle is carried through to its logical conclusion, it will be observed that
most of these developments will not take place within the arithmetic class, but in the various
other subjects. Arithmetic teaching, like the teaching of penmanship, etc., is for the purpose
of giving tools that are to be used in matters that lie beyond. The full development will take
place within these various other fields. For the present, it probably will be well for the
schools to develop the matters both within the arithmetic classes and in the other classes.
Neither being complete at present, each will tend to complete the other.

On the side of the preliminary training in the fundamental operations, the present arithmetic
course of study is on the whole of a superior character. It provides for much drill, and for
a great variety of drill. It emphasizes rapidity, accuracy, and the confidence that comes to
pupils from checking up their results. It holds fast to fundamentals, dispensing with most
of the things of little practical use. It provides easy advances from the simple to the complicated.
The field of number is explored in a great variety of directions so that pupils are made to
feel at home in the subject. One large defect is the lack of printed exercise materials, the
use of which would result in greatly increased effectiveness. Such printed materials ought
to be furnished in great abundance.

ALGEBRA

In the report of the Educational Commission of Cleveland, 1906, we find the following very
significant sentences relative to the course of study for the proposed high school of commerce:

"An entirely new course of study should be made out for this school. Subjects which have been
considered necessary in a high school, because they tend to develop the mind, should not for
this reason only be placed in a commercial course. Subjects should not be given because they
strengthen the mind, but the subjects which are necessary in this course should be given in
such a way as to strengthen the mind. The mathematics in this school should consist of business
arithmetic and mensuration. We can see no reason for giving these students either algebra or
geometry. But they should be taught short and practical methods of working business problems."

We find here a recommendation since carried out that indicates a clear recognition of the principle
of adaptation of the course of study to actual needs. Carried out to its logical conclusion,
and applied to the entire city system, it raises questions as to the advisability of requiring
algebra of girls in any of the high school courses; or of requiring it of that large number
of boys looking forward to vocations that do not involve the generalized mathematics of algebra.
Now either the commercial students do need algebra or a large proportion of these others do
not need it. It seems advisable here to do nothing more than to present the question as one
which the city needs to investigate. The present practice, in Cleveland as elsewhere, reveals
inconsistency. In one or the other of the schools a wrong course is probably being followed.
The current tendency in public education is toward agreement with the principle enunciated
by the Cleveland Educational Commission, and toward a growing and consistent application of it.

Differentiation in the mathematics of different classes of pupils is necessary. The public
schools ought to give the same mathematics to all up to that level where the need is common
to all. Beyond that point, mathematics needs to be adapted to the probable future activities
of the individual. There are those who will need to reach the higher levels of mathematical
ability. Others will have no such need.

There is a growing belief that even for those who are in need of algebra the subject is not
at present organized in desirable ways. It is thought that, on the one hand, it should be knit
up in far larger measure with practical matters, and on the other, it should be developed in
connection with geometry and trigonometry. The technical high schools of Cleveland have adopted
this form of organization. Their mathematics is probably greatly in advance of that of the
academic schools.

GEOMETRY

Form study should begin in the kindergarten, and it should develop through the grades and high
school in ways similar to the arithmetic, and in conjunction with the arithmetic, drawing,
and construction work. Since geometrical forms involve numerical relations, they supply good
materials to use in making number relations concrete and clear. This is now done in developing
ideas of fractions, multiplication, division, ratio, per cent, etc. It should be done much
more fully and variously than at present and for the double purpose of practising the form-ideas
as well as the number-ideas. Arithmetic study and form-study can well grow up together, gradually
merging into the combined algebra and geometry so far as students need to reach the higher
levels of mathematical generalization.

At the same time that this is being developed in the mathematics classes, development should
also be going on in the classes of drawing, design, and construction. The alphabet of form-study
will thus be taught in several of the studies. The application will be made in practical design,
in mechanical and free-hand drawing, in constructive labor, in the graphical representation
of social, economic, and other facts of life. The application comes not so much in the development
of practical problems in the mathematics classes as in the development of the form aspect of
those other activities that involve form.

We have here pointed to what appears to be in progressive schools a growing program of work.
Everywhere it is yet somewhat vague and inchoate. In connection with the arithmetic, the drawing,
the construction and art work, and the mathematics of the technical high schools, it appears
to be developing in Cleveland in a vigorous and healthy manner.

HISTORY

The curriculum makers for elementary education do not seem to have placed a high valuation
upon history. Apparently it has not been considered an essential study of high worth, like
reading, writing, spelling, grammar, and arithmetic. To history are allotted but 290 hours
in Cleveland, as against 496 hours in the average of 50 progressive American cities. This discrepancy
should give the city pause and concern. If a mistake is being made, it is more likely to be
on the part of an individual city than upon that of 50 cities. The probability is that Cleveland
is giving too little time to this subject. Of the 108 pages, it receives an aggregate of less
than two. The perfunctory assignment of work for the seventh grade is typical:

"UNITED STATES HISTORY

  "B Assignment.
  Mace's History, pp. 1-124 inclusive.
  Questions and suggested collateral reading
  found in Appendix may be used as teacher directs.

  "A Assignment.
  Mace's History, pp. 125-197.
  Make use of questions and suggested collateral
  reading at your own option."

For fifth and sixth grades there is assigned a small history text of 200 pages for one or two
lessons per week. The two years of the seventh and eighth grades are devoted to the mastery
of about 500 pages of text. While there is incidental reference to collateral reading, as a
matter of fact the schools are not supplied with the necessary materials for this collateral
reading in the grammar grades. The true character of the work is really indicated by the last
sentence of the eighth-grade history assignment: "The text of our book should be thoroughly
mastered."

In discussing the situation, the first thing to which we must call attention is the great value
of history for an understanding of the multitude of complicated social problems met with by
all people in a democracy. In a country where all people are the rulers, all need a good understanding
of the social, political, economic, industrial, and other problems with which we are continually
confronted. It is true the thing needed is an understanding of present conditions, but there
is no better key to a right understanding of our present conditions than history furnishes.
One comes to understand a present situation by observing how it has come to be. History is
one of the most important methods of social analysis.

The history should be so taught that it will have a demonstrably practical purpose. In drawing
up courses of study in the subject for the grammar grades and the high school, the first task
should be an analysis of present-day social conditions, the proper understanding of which requires
historical background. Once having discovered the list of social topics, it is possible to
find historical readings which will show how present conditions have grown up out of earlier
ones. Looked at from a practical point of view, the history should be developed on the basis
of topics, a great abundance of reading being provided for each of the topics. We have in mind
such topics as the following:

  Sociological Aspects of War
  Territorial Expansion
  Race Problems
  Tariff and Free Trade
  Transportation
  Money Systems
  Our Insular Possessions
  Growth of Population
  Trusts
  Banks and Banking
  Immigration
  Capital and Labor
  Education
  Inventions
  Suffrage
  Centralization of Government
  Strikes and Lockouts
  Panics and Business Depressions
  Commerce
  Taxation
  Manufacturing
  Labor Unions
  Foreign Commerce
  Agriculture
  Postal Service
  Army
  Government Control of Corporations
  Municipal Government
  Navy
  Factory Labor
  Wages
  Courts of Law
  Charities
  Crime
  Fire Protection
  Roads and Road Transportation
  Newspapers and Magazines
  National Defense
  Conservation of Natural Resources
  Liquor Problems
  Parks and Playgrounds
  Housing Conditions
  Mining
  Health, Sanitation, etc.
  Pensions
  Unemployment
  Child Labor
  Women in Industry
  Cost of Living
  Pure Food Control
  Savings Banks
  Water Supply of Cities
  Prisons
  Recreations and Amusements
  Co-operative Buying and Selling
  Insurance
  Hospitals

After drawing up such lists of topics for study, they should be assigned to grammar grades
and high school according to the degree of maturity necessary for their comprehension. Naturally
as much as possible should be covered in the grammar grades. Such as cannot be covered there
should be covered as early as practicable in the high school, since so large a number of students
drop out, and all need the work. Of course, this would involve a radical revision of the high
school courses in history. It is not here recommended that any such changes be attempted abruptly.
There are too many other conditions that require readjustment at the same time. It must all
be a gradual growth.

Naturally, students must have some familiarity with the general time relations of history and
the general chronological movements of affairs before they can understand the more or less
specialized treatment of individual topics. Preliminary studies are therefore both necessary
and desirable in the intermediate and grammar grades for the purpose of giving the general
background. During these grades a great wealth of historical materials should be stored up.
Pupils should acquire much familiarity with the history of the ancient oriental nations, Judea,
Greece, Rome, the states of modern Europe and America. The purpose should be to give a general,
and in the beginning a relatively superficial, overview of the world's history for the sake
of perspective. The reading should be biographical, anecdotal, thrilling dramas of human achievement,
rich with human interest. It should be at every stage of the work on the level with the understanding
and degree of maturity of the pupils, so that much reading can be covered rapidly. Given the
proper conditions--chiefly an abundance of the proper books supplied in sets large enough for
classes--pupils can cover a large amount of ground, obtain a wealth of historical experience,
and acquire a great quantity of useful information, the main outlines of which are remembered
without much difficulty. They can in this manner lay a broad historical foundation for the
study of the social topics that should begin by the seventh grade and continue throughout the
high school.

The textbooks of the present type can be employed as a part of this preliminary training. Read
in their entirety and read rapidly, they give one that perspective which comes from a comprehensive
view of the entire field. But they are too brief, abstract, and barren to afford valuable concrete
historical experience. They are excellent reference books for gaining and keeping historical
perspective.

Reading of the character that we have here called preliminary should not cease as the other
historical studies are taken up. The general studies should certainly continue for some portion
of the time through the grammar grades and high school, but it probably should be mainly supervised
reading of interesting materials rather than recitation and examination work.

We would recommend that the high schools give careful attention to the recommendation of the
National Education Association Committee on the Reorganization of the Secondary Course of Study
in History.

CIVICS

Civic training scarcely finds a place upon the elementary school program. The manual suggests
that one-quarter of the history time--10 to 20 minutes per week--in the fifth and sixth grades
should be given to a discussion of such civic topics as the department of public service, street
cleaning, garbage disposal, health and sanitation, the city water supply, the mayor and the
council, the treasurer, and the auditor. The topics are important, but the time allowed is
inadequate and the pupils of these grades are so immature that no final treatment of such complicated
matters is possible. For seventh and eighth grades, the manual makes no reference to civics.
This is the more surprising because Cleveland is a city in which there has been no end of civic
discussion and progressive human-welfare effort. The extraordinary value of civic education
in the elementary school, as a means of furthering civic welfare, should have received more
decided recognition.

The elementary teachers and principals of Cleveland might profitably make such a civic survey
as that made in Cincinnati as the method of discovering the topics that should enter into a
grammar grade course. The heavy emphasis upon this subject should be reserved for the later
grades of the elementary school.

In the high schools, a little is being accomplished. In the academic high schools, those who
take the classical course receive no civics whatever. It is not even elective for them. Those
who take the scientific or English courses may take civics as a half-year elective. In the
technical high schools it is required of all for a half-year. The course is offered only in
the senior year, except in the High School of Commerce, where it is offered in the third. As
a result of these various circumstances, the majority of students who enter and complete the
course in the high schools of Cleveland receive no civic training whatever--not even the inadequate
half-year of work that is available for a few.

Whether the deficiencies here pointed out are serious or not depends in large measure upon
the character of the other social subjects, such as history and geography. If these are developed
in full and concrete ways, they illumine large numbers of our difficult social problems. It
is probable that the larger part of the informational portions of civic training should be
imparted through these other social subjects. Whether very much of this is actually done at
present is doubtful; for the history teaching, as has already been noted, is much underdeveloped,
and while somewhat further advanced, geography work is still far from adequate at the time
this report is written.

GEOGRAPHY

Geography in Cleveland is given the customary amount of time, though it is distributed over
the grades in a somewhat unusual way. It is exceptionally heavy in the intermediate grades
and correspondingly light in the grammar grades. As geography, like all other subjects, is
more and more humanized and socialized in its reference, much more time will be called for
in the last two grammar grades. In the main it has consisted of the teacher assigning to the
pupils a certain number of paragraphs or pages in the textbook as the next lesson, and then
questioning them next day to ascertain how much of this printed material they have remembered
and how well. It has not consisted of stimulating and guiding the children toward intelligent
inquisitiveness and inquiring interest as to the world, and the skies above, and waters round
about, and the conditions of nature that limit and shape the development of mankind.

That the latter is the proper end of geographical teaching is being recognized in developing
the new course of study in this subject. Industries, commerce, agriculture, and modes of living
are becoming the centers about which geographic thought and experience are gathered. The best
work now being done here is thoroughly modern. Unfortunately it is not yet great in amount
in even the best of the schools, still less in the majority. But the direction of progress
is unmistakable and unquestionably correct.

As in the reading, so in geography, right development of the course of study must depend in
large measure upon the material equipment that is at the same time provided. It sounds like
a legitimate evasion to say that education is a spiritual process, and that good teachers and
willing, obedient, and industrious pupils are about all that is required. As a matter of fact,
just as modern business has found it necessary to install one-hundred-dollar typewriters to
take the place of the penny quill pens, so must education, to be efficient, develop and employ
the elaborate tools needed by new and complex modern conditions, and set aside the tools that
were adequate in a simpler age. The proper teaching of geography requires an abundance of reading
materials of the type that will permit pupils to enter vividly into the varied experience of
all classes of people in all parts of the world. In the supplementary books now furnished the
schools, only a beginning has been made. The schools need 10 times as much geographical reading
as that now found in the best equipped school.

It would be well to drop the term "supplementary." This reading should be the basic geographic
experience, the fundamental instrument of the teaching. All else is supplementary. The textbook
then becomes a reference book of maps, charts, summaries, and a treatment for the sake of perspective.
Maps, globes, pictures, stereoscopes, stereopticon, moving-picture machine, models, diagrams,
and museum materials, are all for the purpose of developing ideas and imagery of details. The
reading should become and remain fundamental and central. The quantity required is so great
as to make it necessary for the city to furnish the books. While the various other things enumerated
are necessary for complete effectiveness, many of them could well wait until the reading materials
are sufficiently supplied.

In the high schools the clear tendency is to introduce more of the industrial and commercial
geography and to diminish the time given to the less valuable physiography. The development
is not yet vigorous. The high school geography departments, so far as observed, have not yet
altogether attained the social point of view. But they are moving in that direction. On the
one hand, they now need stimulation; and on the other, to be supplied with the more advanced
kinds of such material equipment as already suggested for the elementary schools.

DRAWING AND APPLIED ART

The elementary schools are giving the usual proportion of time to drawing and applied art.
The time is distributed, however, in a somewhat unusual, but probably justifiable, manner.
Whereas the subject usually receives more time in the primary grades than in the grammar grades,
in Cleveland, in quite the reverse way, the subject receives its greatest emphasis in the higher
grades. It has therefore had time for substantial growth; and it appears to have been successful.
Recent developments in the main have been wholesome and in line with best modern progress.
The course throughout attempts to develop an understanding and appreciation of the principles
of graphic art plus ability to use these principles through practical application in constructive
activities of an endlessly varied sort.

Occasionally the work appears falsetto and even sentimental. It is often applied in artificial
schoolroom ways to things without significance. General grade teachers cannot be specialists
in the multiplicity of things demanded of them; it is not therefore surprising that they sometimes
lack skill, insight, ingenuity, and resourcefulness. Too often the teachers do not realize
that the study of drawing and design is for the serious purpose of giving to pupils a language
and form of thought of the greatest practical significance in our present age. The result is
a not infrequent use of schoolroom exercises that do not greatly aid the pupils as they enter
the busy world of practical affairs.

These shortcomings indicate incompleteness in the development. Where the teaching is at its
best in both the elementary and high schools of Cleveland, the work exhibits balanced understanding
and complete modernness. The thing needed is further expansion of the best, and the extension
of this type of work through specially trained departmental teachers to all parts of the city.

There should be a larger amount of active co-operation between the teachers of art and design
and the teachers of manual training; also between both sets of teachers and the general community.

MANUAL TRAINING AND HOUSEHOLD ARTS

In the grammar grades manual and household training receives an average proportion of the time.
In the grades before the seventh, the subject receives considerably less than the usual amount
of time. They assist in the training for complicated vocational activities performed in some
degree at least by most women. Where women are so situated that they do not actually perform
them, they need, for properly supervising others and for making intelligible and appreciative
use of the labors of others, a considerable understanding of these various matters.

Where this work for girls is at its best in Cleveland, it appears to be of a superior character.
Those who are in charge of the best are in a position to advise as to further extensions and
developments. It is not difficult to discern certain of these. It would appear, for example,
that sewing should find some place at least in the work of seventh and eighth grades. The girl
who does not go on to high school is greatly in need of more advanced training in sewing than
can be given in the sixth grade. Each building having a household arts room should possess
a sewing machine or two, at the very least. The academic high schools are now planning to offer
courses in domestic science. As in the technical high schools, all of this work should involve
as large a degree of normal responsibility as possible.

We omit discussion here of the specialized vocational training of women, since this is handled
in other reports of the Survey.

When we turn to the manual training of the boys, we are confronted with problems of much greater
difficulty. Women's household occupations, so far as retained in the home, are unspecialized.
Each well-trained household worker does or supervises much the same range of things as every
other. To give the entire range of household occupations to all girls is a simple and logical
arrangement.

But man's labor is greatly specialized throughout. There is no large remnant of unspecialized
labor common to all, as in the case of women. To all girls we give simply this unspecialized
remnant, since it is large and important. But in the case of men the unspecialized field has
disappeared. There is nothing of labor to give to boys except that which has become specialized.

A fundamental problem arises. Shall we give boys access to a variety of specialized occupations
so that they may become acquainted, through responsible performance, with the wide and diversified
field of man's labor? Or shall we give them some less specialized sample out of that diversified
field so that they may obtain, through contact and experience, some knowledge of the things
that make up the world of productive labor?

Cleveland's reply, to judge from actual practices, is that a single sample will be sufficient
for all except those who attend technical and special schools. The city has therefore chosen
joinery and cabinet-making as this sample. In the fifth and sixth grades work begins in simple
knife-work for an hour a week under the direction of women teachers. In the seventh and eighth
grades it becomes benchwork for an hour and a half per week, and is taught by a special manual
training teacher, always a man. In the academic high schools the courses in joinery and cabinet-making
bring the pupils to greater proficiency, but do not greatly extend the course in width.

Much of this work is of a rather formal character, apparently looking toward that manual discipline
formerly called "training of eye and hand," instead of consciously answering to the demands
of social purposes. The regular teachers look upon the fifth and sixth grade sloyd[*sic] which
they teach with no great enthusiasm. Seventh and eighth grade teachers do not greatly value
the work.

The household arts courses for the girls have social purposes in view. As a result they are
kept vitalized, and are growing increasingly vital in the work of the city. Is it not possible
also to vitalize the manual training of the boys--unspecialized pre-vocational training, we
ought to call it--by giving it social purpose?

The principal of one of the academic high schools emphasized in conversation the value of manual
training for vocational guidance--a social purpose. It permitted boys, he said, to try themselves
out and to find their vocational tastes and aptitudes. The purpose is undoubtedly a valid one.
The limitation of the method is that joinery and cabinet-making cannot help a boy to try himself
out for metal work, printing, gardening, tailoring, or commercial work.

If vocational guidance is to be a controlling social purpose, the manual training work will
have to be made more diversified so that one can try out his tastes and abilities in a number
of lines. And, moreover, each kind of work must be kept as much like responsible work out in
the world as possible. In keeping work normal, the main thing is that the pupils bear actual
responsibility for the doing of actual work. This is rather difficult to arrange; but it is
necessary before the activities can be lifted above the level of the usual manual training
shop. The earliest stages of the training will naturally be upon what is little more than a
play level. It is well for schools to give free rein to the constructive instinct and to provide
the fullest and widest possible opportunities for its exercise. But if boys are to try out
their aptitudes for work and their ability to bear responsibility in work, then they must try
themselves out on the work level. Let the manual training actually look toward vocational guidance;
the social purpose involved will vitalize the work.

There is a still more comprehensive social purpose which the city should consider. Owing to
the interdependence of human affairs, men need to be broadly informed as to the great world
of productive labor. Most of our civic and social problems are at bottom industrial problems.
Just as we use industrial history and industrial geography as means of giving youth a wide
vision of the fields of man's work, so must we also use actual practical activities as means
of making him familiar in a concrete way with materials and processes in their details, with
the nature of work, and with the nature of responsibility. On the play level, therefore, constructive
activities should be richly diversified. This diversity of opportunity should continue to the
work level. One cannot really know the nature of work or of work responsibility except as it
is learned through experience. Let the manual training adopt the social purpose here mentioned,
provide the opportunities, means, and processes that it demands, and the work will be wondrously
vitalized.

It is well to mention that the program suggested is a complicated one on the side of its theory
and a difficult one on the side of its practice. In the planning it is well to look to the
whole program. In the work itself it is well to remember that one step at a time, and that
secure, is a good way to avoid stumbling.

Printing and gardening are two things that might well be added to the manual training program.
Both are already in the schools in some degree. They might well be considered as desirable
portions of the manual training of all. They lend themselves rather easily to responsible performance
on the work level. There are innumerable things that a school can print for use in its work.
In so doing, pupils can be given something other than play. Also in the home gardening, supervised
for educational purposes, it is possible to introduce normal work-motives. By the time the
city has developed these two things it will have at the same time developed the insight necessary
for attacking more difficult problems.

ELEMENTARY SCIENCE

This subject finds no place upon the program. No elaborate argument should be required to convince
the authorities in charge of the school system of a modern city like Cleveland that in this
ultra-scientific age the children who do not go beyond the elementary school--and they constitute
a majority--need to possess a working knowledge of the rudiments of science if they are to
make their lives effective.

The future citizens of Cleveland need to know something about electricity, heat, expansion
and contraction of gases and solids, the mechanics of machines, distillation, common chemical
reactions and a host of other things about science that are bound to come up in the day's work
in their various activities.

Considered from the practical standpoint of actual human needs, the present almost complete
neglect of elementary science is indefensible. The minute amount of such teaching now introduced
in the language lessons for composition purposes is so small as to be almost negligible. The
topics are not chosen for their bearing upon human needs. There is no laboratory work.

Naturally much of the elementary science to be taught should be introduced in connection with
practical situations in kitchen, school garden, shop, sanitation, etc. Certainly the applied
science should be as full as possible. But preliminary to this there ought to be systematic
presentation of the elements of various sciences in rapid ways for overview and perspective.

To try to teach the elements only "incidentally" as they are applied is to fail to see them
in their relations, and therefore to fail in understanding them. Intensive studies by way of
filling in the details may well be in part incidental. But systematic superficial introductory
work is needed by way of giving pupils their bearings in the various fields of science. The
term "superficial" is used advisedly. There is an introductory stage in the teaching of every
such subject when the work should be superficial and extensive. This stage paves the way for
depth and intensity, which must be reached before education is accomplished.

HIGH SCHOOL SCIENCE

Having no elementary science in the grades, one naturally expects to find in the high school
a good introductory course in general science, similar in organization to that suggested for
the elementary stage. But nowhere is there anything that even remotely suggests such a course.
Students who take the classical course get their first glimpse of modern science in the third
or fourth high school year, when they have an opportunity to elect a course in physics or chemistry
of the usual traditional stamp. No opportunity is given them for so much as a glimpse of the
world's biological background. Those who take the scientific or English course have access
to physical geography and to an anemic biological course entitled, "Physiology and Botany,"
which few take. Students of the High School of Commerce have their first contacts with modern
science in a required course in chemistry in the third year, and elective physics in the fourth
year. In the technical high schools the first science for the boys is systematic chemistry
in the second year and physics in the third. They have no opportunity of contact with any biological
science. The girls have "botany and physiology" in their first year.

The city needs to organize preliminary work in general science for the purpose of paving the
way to the more intensive science work of the later years. A portion of this should be found
in the elementary school and taught by departmental science teachers; and a portion in the
first year of the high school. As junior high schools are developed, most of this work should
be included in their courses.

As to the later organization of the work, the two technical high schools clearly indicate the
modern trend of relating the science teaching to practical labors. What is needed is a wider
expansion of this phase of the work without losing sight of the need at the same time for a
systematic and general teaching of the sciences. It is a difficult task to make the science
teaching vital and modern for the academic high schools, since they have so few contacts with
the practical labors of the world. Cleveland needs to see its schools more as a part of the
world of affairs, and not so much as a hothouse nursery isolated from the world and its vital
interests.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

Teaching in matters pertaining to health is given but a meagre amount of time in the elementary
schools. While the school program shows one 15-minute period each week in the first four grades,
and one 30-minute period each week in the four upper grades, it appears that in actual practice
the subject receives even less time than this. In the attempt to observe the class work in
physiology and hygiene, a member of the Survey staff went on one day to four different classrooms
at the hour scheduled on the program. In two cases the time was given over to grammar, in one
to arithmetic, and in one to music. This represents practice that is not unusual. The subject
gets pushed off the program by one of the so-called "essentials." It is difficult to see why
health-training is not an essential. In a letter to the School Board, February 8, 1915, Superintendent
Frederick wrote:

"The teaching of physiology and hygiene should become a matter of serious moment in our course
of study. At present it is not systematically presented in the elementary schools: and in the
high schools it is an elective study only in the senior year. My judgment is that it should
become a definite part of the program, as a required study in the seventh and eighth grades."

The small nominal amount of time as compared with the time usually expended is partially shown
in Table 12. Professor Holmes' figures for the 50 cities include elementary science along with
the physiology and hygiene. In his report to the Board, 1913, Dr. Peterson writes:

"Health instruction is given by doctors and nurses in personal talks to pupils, talks to whole
schools, tooth-brush drills conducted in many schools, and in visits into the homes by the
nurses. Conscious effort is continually made by all doctors and nurses to inspire to right
living all of the children with whom they come in contact."

Looking somewhat to the future, it can be affirmed that the school physicians and nurses are
the ones who ought to give the teaching in this subject. After giving the preliminary ideas
in the classrooms, they alone are in position to follow up the various matters and see that
the ideas are assimilated through being put into practice both at school and at home. At present,
however, 16 physicians and 27 nurses have 75,000 children to inspect, of whom more than half
have defects that require following up. It is a physical impossibility for them to do much
teaching until the force of school nurses is greatly increased.

For the present certain things may well be done:

1. A course in hygiene and sanitation, based upon an abundance of reading, should be drawn
up and taught by the regular teachers in the grammar school grades. This course should be looked
upon as merely preliminary to the more substantial portions of education in this field. The
physicians and nurses should select the readings and supervise the course to see that the materials
are covered conscientiously and not slighted.

2. The schools should arrange for practical applications of the preparatory knowledge in as
many ways as possible. Children in relays can look after the ventilation, temperature, humidity,
dust, light, and other sanitary conditions of school-rooms and grounds. They can make sanitary
surveys of their home district; engage in anti-fly, anti-mosquito, anti-dirt, and other campaigns;
and report--for credit possibly--practical sanitary and hygienic activities carried on outside
of school. Only as knowledge is put to work is it assimilated and the prime purpose of education
accomplished.

3. The corps of school nurses should be gradually enlarged, and after a time they can be given
any needed training for teaching that will enable them, as the work is departmentalized in
the grammar grades, to become departmental teachers in this subject for a portion of their
time. Their "follow-up" work will always give them their chief educational opportunity; but
to prepare for this the classwork must give some systematized preparatory ideas.

In the high schools, training of boys in hygiene and sanitation is little developed. The only
thing offered them is an elective half-year course in physiology in the senior year of the
scientific and English courses in the academic high schools. In the classical course, and in
the technical and commercial schools, they have not even this. Physiology is required of girls
in the technical schools, and is elective in all but the classical course in the others. While
in one or two of the high schools there is training in actual hygiene and sanitation, in most
cases it is physiology and anatomy of a superficial preliminary type which is not put to use
and which therefore mostly fails of normal assimilation.

The things recommended for the elementary schools need to be carried out in the high schools also.

PHYSICAL TRAINING

The city gives slightly more than the usual amount of time to physical training in the elementary
schools. Except for first and second grades, where a slightly larger amount is set aside for
the purpose, pupils are expected to receive one hour per week. A week consists of 168 hours.
After deducting 12 hours a day for sleep, meals, etc., there remain 84 hours per week to be
used. In a state of nature this was largely used for physical play. Under the artificial conditions
of modern city life, the nature of children is not changed. They still need huge amounts of
active physical play for wholesome development. Most of this they will get away from the school,
but as urban conditions take away proper play opportunities, the loss in large degree has to
be made good by systematic community effort in establishing and maintaining playgrounds and
playrooms for 12 months in the year. The school and its immediate environment is the logical
place for this development.

The course of study lays out a series of obsolescent Swedish gymnastics for each of the years.
The work observed was mechanical, perfunctory, and lacking in vitality. Sandwiched in between
exhausting intellectual drill, it has the value of giving a little relief and rest. This is
good, but it is not sufficiently positive to be called physical training.

Very desirable improvements in the course are being advocated by the directors and supervisors
of the work. They are recommending, and introducing where conditions will permit, the use of
games, athletics, folk dances, etc. The movements should be promoted by the city in every possible
way. At present the regular teachers as a rule have not the necessary point of view and do
not sufficiently value the work. Special teachers and play leaders need to be employed. Material
facilities should be extended and improved. Some of the school grounds are too small; the surfacing
is not always well adapted to play; often apparatus is not supplied; indoor playrooms are insufficient
in number, etc. These various things need to be supplied before the physical training curriculum
can be modernized.

In the high schools two periods of physical training per week in academic and commercial schools,
and three or four periods per week in the technical schools, are prescribed for the first two
years of the course. In the last two years it is omitted from the program in all but the High
School of Commerce, where it is optional. With one or two exceptions, the little given is mainly
indoor gymnastics of a formal sort owing to the general lack of sufficiently large athletic
fields, tennis courts, baseball diamonds, and other necessary facilities.

Special commendation must be accorded the home-room basis of organizing the athletics of the
technical high schools. Probably no plan anywhere employed comes nearer to reaching the entire
student body in a vital way.

With the exceptions referred to, it seems that the city has not sufficiently considered the
indispensable need of huge amounts of physical play on the part of adolescents as the basis
of full and life-long physical vitality. High school students represent the best youth of the
community. Their efficiency is certainly the greatest single asset of the new generation. There
are scores of other expensive things that the city can better afford to neglect. The one thing
it can least afford to sacrifice on the altar of economy is the vitality of its citizens of
tomorrow.

MUSIC

In the elementary schools Cleveland is giving considerably more than the average amount of
time to music. In the high schools, except for a one-hour optional course in the High School
of Commerce, the subject is developed only incidentally and given no credit. It is entirely
pertinent to inquire why music should be so important for the grammar school age and then lose
all of this importance as soon as the high school is reached. It cannot be urged that the subject
is finished in the elementary schools. Pupils in fact receive only an introductory training
in vocal music. The whole field of instrumental music remains untouched. It seems the city
ought to consider the question of whether the course ought not to be much expanded and continued
throughout the high school period as an elective subject. However, in considering the question
it should be kept in mind that there are very many things of more importance and of far more
pressing immediate necessity.

FOREIGN LANGUAGES

German has long been taught in the elementary schools. Until less than 10 years ago it was
taught in all grades beginning with the first. More recently it has been confined to the four
upper grades. Beginning with the present year, it is taught only in the seventh and eighth
grades. The situation is so well presented in the report of the Educational Commission of 1906
that further discussion here is unnecessary. They summarize their discussion of the teaching
of German in the elementary schools as follows:

"Such teaching originated in a nationalistic feeling and demand on the part of German immigrants,
and not in any educational or pedagogical necessity.

"It aimed to induce the children of Germans to attend the public schools, where they would
learn English and be sooner Americanized.

"For 15 years [now 25 years] past, German immigration has almost ceased, and other European
nationalities, as the Bohemians, Poles, and Italians, have taken their place numerically.

"The children of the earlier German immigrants are already Americanized and use the English
language freely, and those later born, of the second and third generations, no longer need
to be taught German in the schools beginning at six years of age.

"It is demonstrated by experience and by abundant testimony that children neither from German
nor from English-speaking families really learn much German in the primary and grammar grades,
that is, from six to 13 years of age.

"Hence the Commission recommends that the teaching of German in these grades be discontinued
and that the German language be taught only in the high schools.

"It is admitted that those who begin German in the high school, after the second year, can
keep up with and do as good work in the same classes as those who have had eight years of German
in the primary and grammar grades and two years in the high schools."

The form of argument that once was valid for including German in the elementary course of study
may now be valid for Polish, Hungarian, Bohemian and Italian, for the children of the first
generation of these nationalities. Properly done, it is a means of preventing the children's
drifting from the parental moorings. After the first generation, it would not be needed.

It is impossible, in the limited space at our disposal, to discuss comprehensively so complicated
a topic as foreign languages in the high school. One group of educators sturdily defends the
traditional classical course, with its great emphasis on Greek and Latin, while another group
as urgently insists that if any foreign languages are taught, they must be the modern ones.
These opposing schools of thought are profoundly sincere in their conflicting beliefs. Each
side is absolutely certain that it is right and is unalterably of the opinion that there is
no other side of the question to be even so much as considered. Anything that agrees with its
own side is based on reason; anything opposed is but ignorant prejudice. Under the circumstances
the disinterested outsider may well suspect that where there is so much sincerity and conviction,
there must be much truth on both sides. And undoubtedly this is the case.

Latin is a living language in our country in that it provides half of our vocabulary. Pupils
who would know English well should have a good knowledge of this living Latin. If the Latinists
would shift their ground to this living Latin and provide means of teaching it fully and effectively
for modern purposes, it is possible that the opposing schools of thought might here find common
ground upon which all could stand with some degree of comfort and toleration. When Latin study
of the character here suggested is devised, it ought to be opened up to the students of all
courses as an elective, so that it could be taken by all who wish a full appreciation and understanding
of their semi-Latin mother tongue. Such a study ought to be required of the clerical students
of the High School of Commerce. In the meantime, however, all will have to wait until the Latinists
have provided the plans and the materials.

In the new so-called English course in the academic high schools required foreign languages
are omitted entirely. In the third and fourth years German or Spanish is made elective. This
gives rise to several questions. If the foreign language is studied simply as preparation for
the leisure occupation of reading its literature--the only value of the course in the case
of most who take it--why should not French be elective also? By far the largest of the world's
literatures, outside of the English, is the French. The Spanish has but a small literature;
and while Germany has excelled in many things, belles-lettres is not one of them. Another question
relates to the placing of these electives. If one is to study a foreign language at all, it
is usually thought best to begin earlier than the third year of the high school, so as to finish
these simple matters that can be done by children and gain time in the later years for the
more complicated matters that require mature judgment.

DIFFERENTIATION OF COURSES

Courses of training based upon human needs should be diversified where conditions are diversified.
Uniform courses of study for all schools within a city were justifiable in a former simpler
age, when the schools were caring only for needs that were common to all classes. But as needs
have differentiated in our large industrial cities, courses of training must also become differentiated.
In Cleveland this principle has been recognized in organizing the work of the special schools
and classes. For all the regular elementary schools, however, a uniform course of study has
been used. Under the present administration, principals and teachers are nominally permitted
wide latitude in its administration.

A large part of this freedom is taken away by two things. One is the use by the city of the
plan of leaving textbooks to private purchase. For perfectly obvious reasons, so long as textbooks
are privately purchased, a uniform series of textbooks must be definitely prescribed for the
entire city. Uniform textbooks do not necessarily enforce a uniform curriculum. In usual practice,
however, they do enforce it as completely as a prescribed uniform course of study manual. As
the schools of different sections of the city are allowed to experiment and to develop variations
from the course of study, they should be allowed greater freedom in choosing the textbooks
that will best serve in teaching their courses.

The second condition enforcing a uniform course of study in certain subjects is the use of
uniform examinations in those subjects. We would merely suggest here that it is possible to
use supervisory examinations without making them uniform for all schools. Different types of
school may well have different types of examination.

Different social classes often exist within the same school. Administrative limitations probably
must prevent the use of more than one course of study in a single elementary school. But as
the work of the grammar grades is departmentalized, and as junior high schools are developed,
it will become possible to offer alternative courses in these grades. Those practically certain
of going on to higher educational work requiring foreign languages and higher mathematics should
probably be permitted to begin these studies by the sixth or seventh grade. On the other hand,
those who are practically certain to drop out of school at the end of the grammar grades or
junior high school should have full opportunities for applied science, applied design, practical
mathematics, civics, hygiene, vocational studies, etc. When the necessary studies are once
organized and departmental work introduced, it is not difficult to arrange for the necessary
differentiation of courses in the same school.

Finally, courses of study should provide for children of differing natural ability. Extra materials
and opportunities should be provided for children of large capacity; and abbreviated courses
for those of less than normal ability. In departmentalized grammar grades and junior high schools
this can be taken care of rather easily by permitting the brighter pupils to carry more studies
than normal, and the backward ones a smaller number than normal. Under the present elementary
school organization with classes so large and with so many things for the teachers to do, it
is practically impossible to effect such desirable differentiations.

SUMMARY

1. The fundamental social point of view of this discussion of the courses of study of the Cleveland
schools is that effective teaching is preparation for adult life through participation in the
activities of life.

2. The schools of Cleveland devote far more time to reading than do those of the average city.
In too large measure this time is employed in mastering the mechanics of reading and in the
analytical study of the manner in which the words are combined in sentences and the sentences
in paragraphs. The main object of the reading should be the mastery of the thought rather than
the study of the construction. Through it the children should gain life-long habits of exploring,
through reading, the great fields of history, industry, applied science, life in other lands,
travel, invention, biography, and wholesome fiction. To this end the work should be made more
extensive and less intensive. As an indispensable means toward this end the books should be
supplied by the schools instead of being purchased by the parents.

3. The teaching of spelling should aim to give the pupils complete mastery over those words
which they need to use in writing and it should instil in them the permanent habit of watching
their spelling as they write. Drill on lists of isolated words should give way to practice
in spelling correctly every word in everything written. The dictionary habit should be cultivated,
and every written lesson should be a spelling lesson.

4. The time devoted to language, composition, and grammar is about the same as in the average
city. The chief result of the work as done in Cleveland is to enable the pupil to recite well
on textbook grammar and to pass examinations in the subject. The work in technical grammar
should be continued for the purpose of giving the pupils a foundation acquaintance with forms,
terms, relations, and grammatical perspective, but this training need not be so extensive and
intensive as at present. The time saved should be given to oral and written expression in connection
with the reading of history, geography, industrial studies, civics, sanitation, and the like.
Facility and accuracy in oral and written expression are developed through practice rather
than through precept. They are perfected through the conscious and unconscious imitation of
good models rather than through the advanced study of technical grammar. Only as knowledge
is put to work is it really learned or assimilated.

5. Cleveland gives more time to mathematics than does the average city. The content of courses
in mathematics is to be determined by human needs. A fundamental need of our scientific age
is more accurate quantitative thinking about our vocations, civic problems, taxation, income,
insurance, expenditures, public improvements, and the multitude of other public and private
problems involving quantities. We need to think accurately and easily in quantities, proportions,
forms, and relationships. Arithmetic teaching, like the teaching of penmanship, is for the
purpose of providing tools to be used in matters that lie beyond. The present course of study
is of superior character, providing for efficient elementary training and dispensing with most
of the things of little practical use. The greatest improvement in the work is to be found
in its further carrying over into the other fields of school work and in applying it in other
classes as well as in the arithmetic class. In the advanced classes mathematics should be differentiated
according to the needs of different pupils. Algebra should be more closely related to practical
matters and developed in connection with geometry and trigonometry.

6. History receives much less attention in this city than in the average city. The work is
too brief, abstract, and barren to help the pupils toward an understanding of the social, political,
economic, and industrial problems with which we are confronted. It should be amply supplemented
by a wide range of reading on social welfare topics.

7. In Cleveland, where there has been an almost unequalled amount of civic discussion and progressive
human-welfare effort, the teaching of civics in the public schools receives too little attention.
Not much civics teaching should be attempted in the intermediate grades, but it should be given
in the higher grades.

8. A new course of study in geography is now being put into use. The work as laid out in the
old manual and as seen in the classrooms has been forbiddingly formal. The new course of study
recognizes, on the contrary, that the proper end of geographical teaching is rather to stimulate
and guide the children toward an inquiring interest as to how the world is made, and the skies
above, and the waters round about, and the conditions of nature that limit and determine in
a measure the development of mankind. To attain this ideal will require in every school 10
times as adequate provision of geographical reading and geographical material as is now found
in the best equipped school.

9. Drawing and applied art have been taught in Cleveland since 1849. Where this work is done
best, it shows, in both the elementary and high schools, balanced understanding and complete
modernness. What is needed is extension of this best type of work to all parts of the city
through specially trained departmental teachers.

10. Where teaching of household arts is at its best in Cleveland, it is of a superior character
and should be extended along lines now being followed. Manual training for boys should be extended
and broadened with a view to giving the pupils real contact with more types of industry than
those represented by the present woodwork.

11. Elementary science finds no place in the course of study of Cleveland. The schools should
help supply this need.

12. Teaching in matters pertaining to health is assigned little time in the elementary schools,
and the time that is assigned to it is frequently given to something else. The subject gets
pushed off the program by one of the so-called "essentials." A course in hygiene should be
drawn up, and practical applications of the work should be arranged through having pupils look
after the sanitary conditions of rooms and grounds. The school doctors and nurses should help
in this teaching and practice.

13. Physical training is given about as much time as in the average city, but without adequate
facilities for outdoor and indoor plays and games. At present the work is too largely of the
formal gymnastic type. The movement should be promoted in every possible way.

14. In the elementary schools Cleveland gives more than the average amount of time to music,
but in the high schools the subject is developed only incidentally and is given no credit.
It is a question whether this arrangement is the right one, and in considering possible extensions
it should be remembered that there are other subjects of far more pressing immediate necessity.

15. It is impossible in this brief report to discuss adequately so complicated a matter as
that of the teaching of foreign languages in the high schools, but some of the most important
of the questions at issue have been indicated as matters which the school authorities should
continue to study until satisfactory solutions are reached.

16. Where school work in Cleveland is backward, it is because it has not yet taken on the social
point of view. Where it is progressive, it is being developed on the basis of human needs.
There is much of both kinds of work in Cleveland.

17. In a city with a population so diversified as is that of Cleveland, progress should be
made steadily and consciously away from city-wide uniformity in courses of study and methods
of teaching. There should be progressive differentiation of courses to meet the widely varying
needs of the different sorts of children in different sections of the city.

CLEVELAND EDUCATION SURVEY REPORTS

These reports can be secured from the Survey Committee of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland,
Ohio. They will be sent postpaid for 25 cents per volume with the exception of "Measuring the
Work of the Public Schools" by Judd, "The Cleveland School Survey" by Ayres, and "Wage Earning
and Education" by Lutz. These three volumes will be sent for 50 cents each. All of these reports
may be secured at the same rates from the Division of Education of the Russell Sage Foundation,
New York City.

  Child Accounting in the Public Schools--Ayres.
  Educational Extension--Perry.
  Education through Recreation--Johnson.
  Financing the Public Schools--Clark.
  Health Work in the Public Schools--Ayres.
  Household Arts and School Lunches--Boughton.
  Measuring the Work of the Public Schools--Judd.
  Overcrowded Schools and the Platoon Plan--Hartwell.
  School Buildings and Equipment--Ayres.
  Schools and Classes for Exceptional Children--Mitchell.
  School Organization and Administration--Ayres.
  The Public Library and the Public Schools--Ayres and McKinnie.
  The School and the Immigrant--Miller.
  The Teaching Staff--Jessup.
  What the Schools Teach and Might Teach--Bobbitt.
  The Cleveland School Survey (Summary)--Ayres.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Boys and Girls in Commercial Work--Stevens.
  Department Store Occupations--O'Leary.
  Dressmaking and Millinery--Bryner.
  Railroad and Street Transportation--Fleming.
  The Building Trades--Shaw.
  The Garment Trades--Bryner.
  The Metal Trades--Lutz.
  The Printing Trades--Shaw.
  Wage Earning and Education (Summary)--Lutz.

