It would be enough to add here, of other subsequent attempts of  the same nature, that no real
hope for the complete resurrection  of Ireland could be looked to from such abortive and stillborn
conspiracies; especially when the alliance entered into by some  of them with the revolutionary
party of European socialists and  atheists is taken into account, men from whom nothing but
disorder, anarchy, and crime, can be expected. Thus, those who wish well to the Irish cause
have only moral force to fall back upon.

It is needless to do more than mention the passing nature of the  frightful calamity of famine
and consequent expatriation, which  have been sufficiently dwelt upon. The Irish race has passed
through ordeals more trying than either of these; it has  survived them, and increased in numbers
after all previous  calamities, as it doubtless will after this last, when God  thinks proper
to abate in the people the eagerness they still  feel for leaving their native country.

All the progress made by Ireland, so far, is due, therefore,  solely to the kind action of
Divine Providence, which is  generally called the "logic of events," aided by men endowed 
with prudence and energy. It would be superfluous for our  purpose to detail at length several
other progressive steps made  subsequently, which the mad attempt of the party of physical
force would have effectually prevented if open tyranny were as  easy a thing in these days
as it once was. The establishment of  the "Encumbered Estates Courts," and the disestablishment
of the  Irish Protestant Church, are the chief measures alluded to: the  first so fruitful
of good to Ireland since its adoption, and the  second destined to be no less so. It is useless
to remark that  physical force had nothing to do with their introduction, and  that the British
statesmen who advocated and carried them  through were swayed only by that unseen power which
is said by  Holy Scripture to "hold the heart of kings in its hands." Let the Irish do their
part, and Heaven will continue to smile on them.

Since it is to this unseen power that all the improvement now  visible in the condition of
the Irish nation is due, it is only  natural to expect from it every thing that is still wanting.
For  we are far from thinking that nothing more is to be done, and  that all to be desired
has been obtained. That the nation is  still dissatisfied, is plain enough; and it must be
right in not  feeling contented with the various measures for its improvement  tendered it
so far. The voice of its natural leaders--of the  prelates and clergy-proclaims that there
are many things to  change, and many new measures to be introduced.

The first and foremost of these is a thorough remedy for the  disgraceful state of pauperism
to which the great majority of  the Irish nation is yet reduced. That pauperism was wilfully
established, and this national crime of England stands unatoned  for still. It would be unjust
to say that the policy which  produced it is pursued to-day by the English Government; we 
sincerely believe, on the contrary, that the state of things  which has existed for the last
two centuries is seriously  deplored by many of those who, under God, hold in their keeping
the destiny of millions of men. But it is surprising that so  many projects, so many attempts
at legislation, the writing of  so many wise books, discussions so many and so exhaustive of
the  evil, should all result in leaving the evil almost as it stood.

If we listen to those who know Ireland perfectly, who have  either spent their lives in the
country, or traversed its  surface leisurely and intelligently, it would seem as though the
old descriptions of her in the time of her greatest misfortunes  would still be appropriate
and true.

"No devastated province of the Roman Empire," said Father  Lavelle, but yesterday, in his "Irish
Landlord," "ever presented  half the wretchedness of Ireland. At this day, the mutilated  Fellah
of Egypt, the savage Hottentot and New-Hollander, the  live chattel of Cuba, enjoy a paradise
in comparison with the  Irish peasant, that is to say, with the bulk of the Irish nation."

But, as this short passage deals only in generalities, and as  there may be some suspicion
of the warm nature of the writer  having given a higher color to his words than was warranted
by  the facts, let us listen to the less impassioned utterances of  travellers who have recently
visited the island: let us see the  Irish at home in their towns and in the country.

I. In towns and cities: The most Rev. Archbishop of Dublin,  writing in 1857 to Lord St. Leonards,
on the state of his flock  in Dublin, says: "Were your lordship to visit some of the ruined
lanes and streets of Dublin, your heart would thrill with horror  at the picture of human woe
which would present itself."

And in a pastoral letter, November 27,1861, he spoke of "tens of  thousands of human beings,
destitute of all the comforts of life, who are to be met with at every step in all great towns
and  cities. If you enter the wretched abodes where they live, you  will find that they have
no fuel, that they are unprovided with  beds and other furniture, and that generally they have
not a  single blanket to protect them from the cold."

Abbe Perraud, after a thorough examination of the subject, wrote, in 1864, in "Ireland under
English Rule:"

"The poor quarters of Cork, Limerick, and Drogheda, present the  same spectacle as Dublin,
and justify the sad proverbial  celebrity of `Irish rags.' Dirt, negligence, and want of care,
doubtless, go a long way in giving to destitution in Ireland its  repulsive and hideous form;
but who is unaware that continued  and hopeless destitution engenders, as of necessity,  listlessness
and carelessness, and that, to enter into a  struggle with poverty, there must be at least
some chance of  carrying off the victory?"

A German Protestant, Dr. Julius Rodenberg, writing in 1861,  expressed his astonishment at
the sight of Ireland's poverty, as  he saw it in the streets of Dublin, although he had doubtless
read a great deal about it previously. "You are in a country,"  he says, "whence people emigrate
by thousands, while fields, of  such an extent and power of production as would support them
all, lie fallow."

And with respect to the progress already made, M. de Beaumont  had remarked many years before
that in Ireland a certain  relative progress was quite compatible with the continued  existence
of pauperism among the lower classes. "One single  cause," he remarks, "suffices to explain
why the agricultural  population becomes poorer, while the prosperity of the rich is  on the
increase: it is that all improvement in the land is  profitable solely to the proprietor, who
exacts more rent from  the farmer in proportion as he works the land into a better state."

Since M. de Beaumont wrote, the pauperism in the cities has  assumed a more wretched and repulsive
form, in consequence of  the crowding there of poor peasants who had been evicted from  their
small farms and fled to the nearest city or town with the  hope of finding there at least charity.

"For the last ten years," wrote Abbe Perraud, in 1864, "there  has been taking place in the
large cities an accumulation of  poor as fatal to their health as to their morality. They are
mostly country people whom eviction has driven from the country,  who have been unable to emigrate,
and who were unwilling to shut  themselves up immediately in the workhouses. The resources
they  procure for themselves, by doing odd work, are so completely  insufficient, that it is
impossible to be surprised at their  destitution."

Dr. Rodenberg, describing the state of the poor country people  crowded in the "Liberties of
Dublin," says of the rooms in which  they live: "In those holes the most wretched and pitiable
laborers imaginable live; they often lie by hundreds together on  the bare ground."

Such citations might be sadly multiplied, but those given are  sufficient as descriptive of
the state of the poor Irish in the  cities. Let us now see how the peasants live in the country
in  many parts of Ireland:

II. "The destitution of the agricultural classes," writes Abbe  Perraud, from personal observation,
"in order to be rightly  appreciated, must be seen in the boggy and mountainous regions  of
Munster, of Connaught, and of the western portion of Ulster.

"The ordinary dwelling of the small tenant, of the day-laborer,  in that part of Ireland, answers
with the utmost precision the  description of it twenty years ago given by M. de Beaumont:
'Let  the reader picture to himself four walls of dried mud, which the  rain easily reduces
to its primitive condition; a little thatch  or a few cuts of turf form the roof; a rude hole
in the roof  forms the chimney, and more frequently there is no other issue  for the smoke
than the door of the dwelling itself. One solitary  room holds father, mother, grandfather,
and children. No  furniture is to be seen; a single litter, usually composed of  grass or straw,
serves for the whole family. Five or six half- naked children may be seen crouching over a
poor fire. In the  midst of them lies a filthy pig, the only inhabitant at its ease, because
its element is filth itself.'

"Into how many dwellings of this kind have we not ourselves  penetrated--especially in the
counties of Kerry, Mayo, and  Donegal--more than once obliged to stoop down to the ground,
in  order to penetrate into these cabins, the entrance to which is  so low that they look more
like the burrows of beasts than  dwellings made for man!

"Upon the road from Kilkenny to Grenaugh, in the vicinity of  those beautiful lakes, at the
entrance of those parks, to which,  for extent and richness, neither England nor Scotland can
probably offer any thing equal, we have seen other dwellings. A  few branches of trees, interlaced
and leaning upon the slope in  the road, a few cuts of turf, and a few stones picked up in
the  fields, compose these wretched huts--less spacious, and perhaps  less substantial, than
that of the American savage."

At the time of Abbe Perraud's visit, a correspondent of the  Dublin Saunders News-Letters,
who was commissioned to inquire  into the condition of the peasants, gave the following reply,
which, as the abbe justly remarks, is but the faithful echo of  all the descriptions made within
the last half-century:

"The inhabitants of Erris appear to be the most wretched of all  human beings. Their cabins,
their patched and tattered clothes,  their broken-down gait--every thing bears witness to their
poverty. Their beds consist of a few bits of wood crossed one  upon the other, supported by
two heaps of stones, and covered  with straw; their whole bedclothes a miserable, worn-out
quilt,  without any blankets . . . . But there is nothing in Ireland  like the habitations
which the people of the village of Fallmore  have made for themselves, who have been evicted
by Mr. Palmer.  They are composed of masses of granite, picked up on the shore,  and roughly
laid one by the other. These cabins are so low that  a man cannot stand upright in them; so
narrow that they can  hardly hold three or four persons."

After all, F. Lavelle was guilty of no exaggeration in stating  that the hut of the Hottentot
was better than that of the Irish  peasant. But, in the district of Gweedore, northeast of
County  Donegal, the state of the peasantry is more deplorably wretched  still than in any
other part of Ireland. At the time of a  celebrated parliamentary inquiry in to the matter
in 1858, a  Londonderry newspaper stated that "there are in Donegal about  four thousand adults,
of both sexes, who are obliged to go  barefoot during the winter, in the ice and snow--pregnant
women  and aged people in habitual danger of death from the cold . . . . It is rare to find
a man with a calico shirt; but the distress  of the women is still greater, if that be possible.
There are  many hundreds of families in which five or six grown-up women  have among them no
more than a single dress to go out in . . . .  There are about five hundred families who have
but one bed each-- in which father, mother, and children, without distinction of  age or sex,
are crowded pell-mell together."

If from the dwellings and clothing of the peasantry we pass to  their food, there is no need
of adding any thing to what was  said on this point when describing the periodical famines.
One  detail, however, not yet mentioned, deserves to be recorded:

"In the district of Gweedore," says Abbe Perraud, "our eyes were  destined to witness the use
of sea-weed. Stepping once into a  cabin, in which there was no one but a little girl charged
with  the care of minding her younger brothers, and getting ready the  evening meal, we found
upon the fire a pot full of doulamaun  ready cooked; we asked to taste it, and some was handed
to us on  a little platter.

"This weed, when well dressed, produces a kind of viscous juice;  it has a brackish taste,
and savors strongly of salt water. We  were told in the country that the only use of it is
to increase,  when mixed with potatoes, the mass of aliment given to the  stomach. The longer
and more difficult the work of the stomach,  the less frequent are its calls. It is a kind
of compromise with  hunger; the people are able neither to suppress it nor to satisfy it; they
endeavor to cheat it. We have also been assured that this weed cannot be eaten alone; it must
be mixed with vegetables, since of itself it has no nutritive properties whatever."

How long is such a state of things likely to continue? It has  already existed long enough
to be a disgrace to the much-vaunted  benevolence of the nineteenth century. A sure and radical
remedy  must be found for it; and, as it has been already so long  delayed, it should be found
the more promptly.

It seems that the tenure of land lies at the bottom of the  question, and that respect for
what are called "established  rights" offers the main difficulty. Those rights, indeed, were
founded on the cruellest wrong and the most flagrant injustice;  but as possession is "nine
points of the English law," and so  long a time has passed since the land changed hands,  prescription
must be admitted and let them be called rights; nor  can any man in his senses ask for a violent
subversion of  society for the sake of righting an old wrong.

But it has ever been a maxim of jurisprudence that summum jus,  summa injuria; and this axiom
finds its full explanation in the  present case, when it is considered that the jus is on the
side  of a comparatively small number of men, for the most part  absentee landlords, while
the injuria leans to the great mass of  the primitive owners of the soil. The time-honored
policy of the  English Government, that all the open abuses of landlordism  should be watched
over and protected with the most jealous care,  while, on the other hand, the wretched farmer
and cottier is  supposed to have no rights to defend and guard, should be  abandoned at once
and forever, with a firmness that can leave no  room for doubt or equivocation, if the restoration
of confidence  on the part of the Irish is esteemed any thing worth.

But, if for no other motive, at least for the sake of securing  peace and order in Ireland,
a remedy must be found. There is no  reason why the Irish should longer remain a nation of
paupers;  and, although some may still pretend that the fault and its  remedy lie with themselves,
unprejudiced men will readily  acknowledge that the fault lay first, at least, at England's
door --a fact which the London Times has conceded often and  proclaimed loudly enough.

Let British statesmen, then, devise proper means for such an end  without social commotion,
with as little disturbance of private  rights as possible; for the object is an imperious necessity.
It  seems that the latest law enacted with this view is not the  measure that was required;
is totally inadequate in its  provisions, scope, and extent. In such a case it is always open
to legislators to introduce a new and more satisfactory measure;  and moral force will surely
bring this about, provided it is  true to itself. We confess to having no scheme of our own
to set  forth; but Irishmen are free, nay entitled, to speak, to write  on, and discuss the
subject; and a serious, steady, but lawful  agitation of the question will surely find its
true and final  solution. The last Galway election, notwithstanding the temporary triumph of
Judge Keogh, was a beginning in the right direction.

There is no need here of revolution, of what the French call une  jaquerie, of arming the populace
for the purpose of violently  ejecting the great land-owners. No Irishman has ever stood for
so calamitous a remedy. The aid of the Internationalists will  certainly never be called in
by the true children of Erin for  any purpose whatever. It seems that the great and holy Pontiff,
Pius IX., made this remark to the Prince of Wales, at their last  interview at the Vatican,
and, according to the report, the  prince fully admitted its truth as far, at least, as he,
by any  outward sign, could show.

The question is one of pure justice, to be settled within the  limits of order and law; and
surely, when all admit that the  evil is so crying, that a remedy must be found, one will be
found, which, while it does no real injury to any person, will  bring comfort and relief to
the most deserving and suffering  race of men--the Irish peasantry. We will soon see how.

But the Irishman is not only physically destitute; he is also  destitute mentally; and, if
the first case calls for a prompt  remedy, the second is no less urgent. Pauperism and ignorance
were the two terrible engines so long worked by England for the  degradation and final destruction
of the Irish race. Our readers  have seen how persistently was education, of any kind, refused
to the natives. The Universities of Dublin and Drogheda in the  fourteenth century, the cathedral
schools, founded by the Anglo- Normans, in the same age, carefully excluded the Irish from
their benefits. And, when the Reformation set in, with its long  series of oppressions, no
Catholic could share in the new  foundations of the Tudors and the Stuarts without first abjuring
his religion. Penal statute after penal statute made of all the  shifts, to which the Irish
were driven in order to educate their  children, so many crimes, punishable by death or transportation.
That, under such a state of things, they could remain Catholics  without becoming idiots is
one of the most remarkable instances  on record of buoyancy of spirit and soundness of mind
on the  part of a whole nation.

From the end of the last century the policy of England changed  completely in appearance. The
foundation and endowment by the  state of the great college of Maynooth, destined for the education
of the Irish clergy, in 1795, was certainly a step on the right road, and if only primary schools
for the people had, at the same time, been spread all over the island on the same principle
of true liberality, the old injustice on the matter of education would have been atoned for
and remedied, to a great extent.

But the Kildare Peace Society and the Church Education Society,  founded in 1839, showed that
the antagonism to the Catholic  Church in Ireland was far from being dead; nay, was as rife
as  ever.

Lord Stanley's National Education System, in 1831, at first  seemed of a character altogether
above Protestant or infidel  proselytism. But, the composition of the various boards under
that system, and some of the measures adopted, gave evidence  clearly and soon enough that
the education proposed for the  Irish was not in accordance with the true spirit of the nation,
so eminently Catholic and religious as it is. Hence, the total  failure--for such it is now
admitted by all to have been--of  that system ought to have opened the eyes of all impartial
Englishmen to the necessity of starting from the principle that  Ireland is Catholic, and that
the Irish are true children of the  Catholic Church. But this fact seems not yet recognized
or  acknowledged by those who rule the nation, since, at this very  moment, a bill lies before
Parliament against which all the  bishops of Ireland have united in raising their voice. The
queen's colleges all confess to be a wretched failure.

The injustice of centuries, then, is not, even in these free  days, when there is such a talk
about educating the masses,  repaired by the English Government; and this sad fact seems to
militate against the power of moral force. However, it is but  right to remember that only
those establishments are here spoken  of which are supported by state aid, and that complete
freedom  of education, independent of such assistance, does actually  exist in Ireland. Have
not the bishops all necessary power to  open schools of their own? Have they not even founded
a  university? Does the state dare to interfere in whatever  educational establishments they
think proper to set on foot?  They are now, in that regard, as free as the Catholic bishops
in  the United States; and if the degrees granted by the faculties  under their control have
no value in the eyes of the state, they  can easily dispense with a concurrence, which is certainly
unjustly denied, but which, even if granted, would not, in the  eyes of the Church, increase
in the slightest the real value of  the diplomas they themselves approve. They can afford to
wait  for the time when complete justice will be done; meanwhile they  are freer than Catholic
bishops at this moment are in all  Catholic countries of Europe; and the freedom they enjoy
is  entirely owing to that moral force which, we allege, is  sufficient to insure, sooner or
later, all the advantages that  can be desired. When the present situation of the native Irish,
from an educational point of view, is compared with the oppression under which they lay a hundred
years ago, one cannot but wonder how so much has been obtained, and the hope, that every thing
still wanting is sure to come by the agency of the force that has already won so much, cannot
be deemed vain and illusory.

Let not, however, what is here said be construed as advising  Ireland to stand still while
schemes of education, evidently  godless, are concocted, matured, and passed into laws for
their  special benefit. On the contrary, they must not only continue  but increase their efforts
to cry them down, till they compel a  blind and deaf government to open its eyes and ears to
a  national want and a national voice. This is what is meant by the  use of moral force.

But, can the complete remedy for pauperism and the solid  establishment and endowment of truly
Catholic schools be  expected to come from any hands but those of an Irish  Legislature? Can
they be hoped for as long as the destiny of  Ireland rests in the hands of an Imperial Parliament
whose great  majority can have no real sympathy with the long-oppressed race?  In a word, is
home-rule necessary to bring about those two great  measures, which seem absolutely indispensable
for the complete  resurrection of the nation?

Our readers already know that, in our opinion, an Irish  Parliament would not be a sure panacea
for the evils of the  country, particularly those of pauperism and ignorance, even  though
that Parliament sat in Dublin, and was composed of  Irishmen bred and born. The evils would
not be struck out  promptly and utterly, although many great improvements would  immediately
follow.

Some of our reasons for being chary of confidence in the success  of home-rule have been already
given. But we have also insisted  on the necessity of leaving the question open, and admitted
that  Irishmen have a right to discuss it, and take whatever side they  may think proper, provided
always they stand, as they are  standing, within the limits of law and order.

Surely, the Irish have a right to be fairly represented; modern  doctrines, as far as they
can go, consecrate that right; and, if  fair representation is an impossibility in the present
state of  affairs in Ireland, that state should be so altered as that the  Irish nation might
obtain all the advantages which a truly  representative government bestows.

It is clear that the difficulty consists in the paramount  importance of the union--of the
empire; and this is not the  place to discuss so large a question. It may be said, however,
that the union of the British Empire does not and cannot consist  in the absorption into one
whole of the three integral parts  which compose it. England, Scotland, and Ireland, are still
three distinct national entities, each inhabited by a peculiar  race, and each race cannot,
in such a political organization, be  in justice ignored, for a mere abstraction called the state.

Certainly the question is a very complicated one; and to offer a  dogmatic solution of it would
be pretentious. It is better to  leave it to a future which is not far distant. What may be
insisted on is, that moral force is strong enough to bring about  a satisfactory decision,
and that to resort to revolution for  such a purpose would be as fatal as it is criminal.

A right discussion of the question must make clear the fact that  Ireland is entitled to fair
dealing as a component part of the  empire. Many other political organizations embraced within
the  vast limits of the British power are allowed to discuss and  decide on questions peculiar
to themselves, and which they are  at full liberty to pronounce upon for themselves by a wise
adjustment and concession on the part of the mother-country as  necessary to their well-being.
Canada is almost entirely  independent; the Australian colonies have all their own  legislatures;
it is the same more or less with all the distant  dependencies of England, yet there have been
no complaints heard  so far of these late concessions threatening the union of the Empire.

But the objection is urged: "If such a concession be made to  Ireland, where can you stop?
The Scotch may ask the same, and  the Welsh; one has as much right to home-rule as the other;
where can you draw the line?"

An easy answer to this is, that the Scotch have never asked for  home-rule, for the very good
reason that they never had to  complain of unfair treatment at the hands of the English  Government;
their special wants and desires having been always  duly considered from the moment of their
union with England. But  the union of Ireland with England is not yet a century old, was  brought
about perforce, and by chicanery and fraud, and from the  moment of its enactment to the present
has been loudly protested  against by the Irish nation--the nation, that is, which we have
followed all through, joined in this instance by numbers of  their Protestant fellow-countrymen.
A long list of pamphlets and  books might be drawn up, as showing the fact that multitudes
of  Irish writers, not of a revolutionary but of a truly  conservative character, who cannot
be accused of disloyalty to  England, have deplored, protested against, and clamored for the
repeal of, the Union of 1800.

Such is not the case with Scotland. But suppose it were, and  proofs furnished showing that
Scotland is not fairly represented  in a Parliament which meets at Westminster, then that country
would have just as much right to see itself fairly represented,  its special wants satisfied
and met, as all the other branches  of the great British organization.

Certain it is that the empire cannot be sound when an important,  a vital part of its political
frame is incurably sore. Let that  sore be healed by justice, large, generous, and complete;
let  Ireland be truly and really represented, in whatever manner her  representation may be
carried out, and the sudden rise of the  little western isle in wealth, contentment, true prosperity,
and  happiness, will redound to the general good of the whole. As it  now stands, its still
miserable condition is as great and  constant a danger to Great Britain as it is a reproach
and a  shame upon the maternal government which suffers the child, for  whose session it would
stake its all, to continue in a state of  almost hopeless poverty, materially and intellectually,
and to  struggle unaided in its efforts to rise.

If home-rule be the measure which is to heal Ireland's wounds,  it must be granted, and the
voice of reason and right must rise  above the stupid clamor which says that it cannot, must
not,  shall not be granted! Such expressions were common in  inflammatory pamphlets which flooded
the country on the eve of  Catholic Emancipation, in 1829; and possibly many were issued  even
after the granting of this (from a certain English point of  view) suicidal act of justice
to Catholics.

But whatever may be the ultimate issue of the home-rule movement, the question of education,
which is so closely allied to, as to  seem dependent on it, is of such importance that it brooks
no  delay. Ireland is, as it may be hoped it will ever continue, a  truly Catholic nation,
and for such education must be special,  and cannot be left to the direction of a non-Catholic
state, not  to use a worse expression. The result of the so-called national  system, as exhibited
by the Queen's Colleges and the rest, ought  to be enough to open the eyes of real statesmen.
But non- Catholic legislators need a sense which they do not possess, to  appreciate the blunders
they must fall into when proposing to  touch such delicate interests as spiritual things. Thirty
years  ago, when those Queen's Colleges and schools were established in  Ireland, the Catholic
hierarchy raised up their voice to warn  the British Government against so rash an attempt;
for the very  few who appeared willing to give the system a trial had their  own doubts and
forebodings. The warning, as usual, was not  heeded, and the consequence is, that the partisans
of the system  now confess that their darling scheme has turned out a complete  failure. Yet,
strange to say, they do not in the least seem to  have changed their ideas on the subject.
On the contrary, they  wish to secularize education more completely than ever, and to  extend
their project to the whole British Empire; though at this  moment the warning comes to them
also from the Presbyterians of  Scotland, who refuse to submit to the scheme, universal in
its  scope, of educating the young according to state notions and  worldly ideas.

In this the British Government only follows the lead of all  European cabinets and legislatures;
for this great iniquity is  not confined to the British Isles, but is attempted everywhere,
with the evident design of taking the government of souls out of  the hands to which Jesus
Christ confided it--the Church. The  Sovereign Pontiff was compelled to protest, and, as is
the  custom in these days, his protest fell unheeded. It remains to  be seen whether men, who
call themselves Christians, will  consent to see their children educated by secular bodies,
which  are not only void of all authority over the souls of men, but  imbued, as all know,
with doctrines the most pernicious and  disorganizing. The just complaint made by the Irish
hierarchy is  unfortunately not restricted to their own body; their complaint  is one with
that of all the rulers of the Church throughout the  world. It seems to us that there is greater
hope of establishing  a thorough Christian system of education in Ireland than in any  other
country, because the Irish nation will always take a more  determined attitude, and gather
in a more compact and united body around her natural leaders, the bishops and priests of God,
than any other modern Catholic nation; and, in this age, where there are unanimity and a fixed
purpose among any body of men, they cannot fail to result in a victory over all obstacles and
opponents.

Of one thing England may be sure, that the Irish bishops would  never submit to the project
now on foot in England, as to do so  would be to fail in their most sacred duty; and the mass
of the  Irish people is at their back. The Catholic hierarchy is always  ready to support the
secular power so long as that power remains  within its province and does not step out of it
to encroach on  their unquestionable domain; but, when duty calls on them to  resist, the experience
of centuries is before the world, in  Ireland at least, to show how far they can carry their
resistance. In this they will stand united as one man, and it is vain for the English Government
to flatter itself that it will find tools among them, should it foist on them the Birmingham
scheme.

But a more threatening fact still is the compact union of all  Irishmen in support of their
bishops, against schemes which have  already excited such bitter opposition on their part,
and on  which they have already pronounced and given their solemn  verdict in unmistakable
tones. If in our days Irishmen have been  so eager to uphold many projects of a doubtful character,
because those projects were opposed to England; if they have  shown in the most emphatic manner
that the memory of the past is  still fresh, and that they are not yet prepared to accept the
British Government as a friend; if they have seized every  occasion, the most trifling as well
as the most important, to  show that the union with England was distasteful to them--what 
will be their attitude when the question admits of no doubt, and  can give rise to no apprehension
in a Christian conscience; when, indeed, they know that they stand where their duty to God
bids  them, urged at the same time by their natural feelings of  opposition to a power which
they detest and to which they are  irreconcilable? We do not say that we altogether approve
of  their dogged opposition to England; it is only alluded to as a  fact which it would be
folly, in treating of questions between  England and Ireland, to shut one's eyes to or doubt.

When such is the state of feeling, how can a scheme of godless  education hope to succeed,
which, after all, requires the  consent of fathers and mothers of families? It is only natural
to suppose that the English Government, in the event of its  success, is scarcely prepared
to employ such a numerous,  watchful, and determined police as shall march the children off
to school every lay by force--to schools which to them would be  prisons, presided over by
jailers in the shape of instructors.  Nevertheless, the scheme now agitated by British statesmen
must  culminate in some such measure, if they would have their schools  attended; and the inference
is natural that education viewed  from such a stand-point becomes a design criminal and oppressive
in its nature, as well as a sheer impossibility in its carrying  out. Once again the whole
British power would launch itself in  vain against the unyielding rock of as stubborn a will
as ever  animated human beings, as durable and unshrinking almost as the  inner rock upon which
it is built--Catholic faith.

Much space has already been devoted to the consideration of what  are here considered as the
two great measures necessary and  sufficient for the complete resurrection of the Irish race--the
lifting of the load of pauperism under which they have so long  labored, and the establishment
among them of a sound and  thorough Christian education; and that those measures will  undoubtedly
be carried without any attempt at social convulsions, without any violation of law and order.
But, as, unfortunately,  many side-issues have been raised in Ireland of very inferior  importance,
but of a nature almost exclusively to engage the  attention of Irishmen, to the great detriment
of real progress,  it may be well to dwell a little longer on the consequences  which must
infallibly follow from a higher state of physical  comfort and mental culture among them:

I. A higher state of physical comfort will naturally produce a  stronger attachment to their
native soil and a corresponding  reluctance to leave it, as they now do by wholesale emigration.
The thought has been dwelt upon that emigration was a design of  Divine Providence, and even
the first step in the resurrection  of the nation and in the establishment of its power within
as  well as without. That the object of emigration is not yet fully  attained may be inferred
from the fact that it still continues  on so large a scale; that it must ultimately dwindle
to much  smaller proportions, if not cease utterly, is pretty certain.  This is our wish and
hope: for the home population of the island  must be large enough to invest it with deserved
importance in  the eyes of foreigners. Our title-page sets forth the words of  Dr. Newman,
expressive of the firm belief that the time will  come when the Catholic population of Erin
will be as thick and  prosperous as that of Belgium? Why should it not be so? Pauperism alone
prevents it. Let their existence be one of comfort--mere comfort, not luxury--and there is
no limit to the increase of their numbers. In such an event Protestantism would contract into
such narrow limits that in Ireland it would become a thing unknown; the few sectarians still
abiding there would themselvesshare in the general prosperity, and would possibly of their
own accord return to the bosom of the common mother of Christians.

The question, then, of increase of physical comfort for Irishmen  is one of the utmost importance,
and, as the tenure of land is  so closely connected with it, not to this question is the term
side-issue applied. The land-question should be thoroughly  exhausted until the true solution,
the real measure, which has  not yet appeared, may be brought to the surface and carried out
to the full. The land-question in all its bearings lies beyond  our competence; not so, certain
reasons for believing that the  possession of land is necessary for the complete restoration
of  the nation. Manufactures and commercial pursuits are of  secondary importance in a country
like Ireland, which is  eminently agricultural. This should not be taken to mean that  such
matters are to be neglected, and the Irish to be  discouraged in engaging in them, particularly
in their home  manufactures; nor in calling for better laws to help them, at  least for fair
dealing as far as legislation goes. But supposing  them completely independent and masters
of themselves; supposing  not only the repeal of the Union, but even the separation from  the
British organization effected, how could they hope to  compete in manufacturing skill, and
science, with the inventive  genius of the American, the systematic comprehensiveness of the
Englishman, or the artistic taste of the French? Goods are  manufactured for the markets of
the world, and the Irish are not  yet prepared for such extensive enterprises; and, taking
the  characteristics of the race into consideration, it is doubtful  whether they will ever
be successful in such ventures.

The same may be said of commerce. When are they likely to have a  navy of their own? They are
still Celts, and would it be well  for them to cease to be Celts? The oceans of the globe are
covered with ships bearing the flags of many nations. Suppose  them to unfurl a national flag
to the breeze, which is saluted,  wherever met, by the crafts of other civilized nations, when
would it become perceptible among the crowded fleets which  already hold possession of the
seas? The broad thoroughfares of  the ocean know two or three national colors; all the others
are  so seldom seen, that their presence or absence is alike  unnoticed by the world at large.
Among these would the Irish be  numbered, if they engaged in commerce on their own account,
and  sailed no longer under British colors.

It is for them, then, to turn their attention to the land, which  is their chief source of
wealth. Let them buy it up, or gain it  by long leases, inch by inch and acre by acre, until
not only  the bleak bogs and wild mountains of Connaught are again their  own, but the rich
meadow-lands and smiling wheat-fields of  Munster and Leinster. Let their brethren in America
and  Australia associate with them in this, and thus will they build  up again a true Irish
yeomanry and nobility--for nobility has a  new meaning to-day--more glorious, perhaps, than
the old one.  Poverty and rags will give place to prosperity and comfort, even  in the lowliest
cottages, and mirth and glee will be heard again  in the country from which they have so long
been banished.

Is such a picture a dream, and its realization an impossibility?  It is our belief that, to
make it a reality, only requires  steadiness of purpose, perseverance, energy, and association.
Fifty years ago it would certainly have seemed a dream; but  matters have advanced within the
last half-century, and every  thing is now prepared for such a hoped-for consummation.

II. Together with physical comfort, the culture produced by a  sound and thorough education
is the second thing absolutely  necessary for the resurrection of the nation. Education has,
at  all times, been of the utmost importance; in our age it is more  so than ever. It may be
said that, in the opinion of mankind, it  tends more and more to replace blood. The privileges
that once  belonged to rank and birth are now everywhere freely accorded to  a truly-educated
man. And here, wealth, which is almost  worshipped by many, cannot altogether take the place
of  education. Consequently, a great effort should be made in  Ireland to raise the standard
of the intellectual scale of  society. Owing to former tyranny and oppression, the rising must
begin at the lowest grade. But the first impulse has already  been given by the Church of God,
and that impulse must continue  and increase with a constantly-accelerated force.

Unfortunately, a false direction has been given it by the state.  The means which will surely
defeat this action of the state have  been seen. Nevertheless, it works mischievously for the
general  result; and the money paid by the nation has been and still is  squandered for a most
unholy purpose, when, if properly applied,  it would be so fruitful of good.

Should the government persevere in its project, one course only  lies open before all true
Irishmen; and that is, to ignore the  action of the government, and follow a plan of their
own. They  have only to do what the Catholics in France would most  willingly do if the state
allowed them; what Catholics in the  United States have been doing for some time, and will
have to do  for some time longer--not murmur too loudly at the taxes paid by  them for educational
purposes and used so lavishly by the state  without any profit to them; but with steady purpose
raise funds  which the state cannot touch, devoted to an object with which  the state cannot
interfere, namely, the solid Christian  education of their children under the eyes and chief
control of  the Church, with competent and truly religious masters.

Let them reflect that until recently education in Christian  countries was always imparted
by the Church of Christ, and that  its secularization is but a work of yesterday; that the
effect  of that secularization is manifest enough in the mental anarchy  which grows more prevalent
in Europe every day; that the nation  which comes back to the old system, and places again
the care of  youth in the hands of religious teachers, is sure to obtain a  far sounder and
more effective education than those who take for  teachers of their children men void of faith
and remarkable only  for a false and superficial polish, which sooner or later will  be reckoned
by all at its true value, and meet only with well- merited neglect and contempt.

No one will deny that moral training, the first and most  important part of education, is far
surer and safer in the care  of religious teachers than in that of mere laymen, whose  morality
is often doubtful, and whose reputation is not of the  best. With regard to scientific teaching,
the mind of the  religious is not, to say the least, lowered by the holy  obligations which
he has contracted: and it is an awkward fact  for those who in a breath uphold secular education
and abuse the  religious, that in former ages the men who excelled in arts and  sciences, the
geniuses whose works will live as long as the  earth, were either themselves monks or the pupils
of monks. A  list of them would fill many pages, and their names are not  unknown to the world.

For the mass of the people, the common level of primary  education with which so many are now
satisfied may at least be  as satisfactory in its results when imparted by religious, male
and female, as when under the direction of young men and women  who have received every possible
diploma which is at the  disposal of school commissioners or boards of gentlemen invested 
with an office, worthy of the gravest attention, but to which  they can devote but very little
time.

But the subject may be said to have passed beyond discussion.  The true and authorized leaders
of the Irish in such matters,  the Catholic bishops, have already taken the matter into their
own hands; and in a very short time have covered the island with  their schools, with every
prospect of a university. It rests  with the government to give or refuse its aid in imparting
a  true national education to a nation which is Catholic; but, with  or without this aid, the
Irish will have the means of educating  their children rightly; and the culture they receive
will  favorably compare with that imparted by rival establishments  fostered by the state,
whose pupils will not know a word even of  their own national history, since, in the authorized
books,  Ireland has no existence other than that of an unworthy subject  of the great British
Empire.

It was necessary to give prominence to what is here considered  as the most effective means
of bringing about the great result  which engages our attention in this chapter. There are
secondary  objects which might be treated, but which, in the final working  of the divine will,
may be insignificant. For, to repeat what  has been said before, the restoration of the nation
which is now  progressing so steadily almost unaided by any action of man,  however much he
may indulge in agitation, is the work of God,  and before long will so manifest itself to all.
Meanwhile it is  enough to assert in general terms that Ireland is entitled to  all those things
which render a people happy and contented. That  wished-for state is not far off; let them
continue to be active  in its pursuit. A previous chapter has already touched upon the  great
means to be employed in bringing this about: association, whose centre should be Ireland, and
whose branches should  spread wherever Irishmen have established themselves; whose  guides
should be the clergy, but its chief workers, intelligent  and energetic laymen. On this point
it is desirable particularly  to be rightly understood; it is not our purpose to say that in
such a work laymen ought not to cooperate, or even to lead; with  the memory of O'Connell before
us, such a thing would be  impossible; on the contrary, the external working of the whole 
scheme should be placed in the hands of good, active, and  intelligent laymen. They are the
proper instruments for carrying  on such a work actively and efficaciously; they form, at least
numerically, the principal part of the moral power of the nation, and that power should be
developed on a larger scale than it  has ever yet been. But the first impulse should be given
by the  moral leaders, rulers of the Church. Let the nation work under  the guidance, the leadership
of the men who alone stood by them  when all else had been lost, who, in fact, by preserving
their  religion, preserved to them their nationality; let them work  under their eyes and with
their sanction, and assuredly their  labor will not be labor in vain.

What will the final result be of such a cooperation of workers?  The formation or rather consolidation
of a truly Christian and  Catholic people; a most remarkable phenomenon in this wonderful 
nineteenth century! It would seem that they have thus far been  deprived of a government of
their own only to win a government  at last which shall be, what is so sadly wanted in these
days,  Christian and Catholic. Modern governments have broken loose  from Christianity; they
have declared themselves independent of  all moral restraint; they have pronounced themselves
supreme,  each in its own way; and, to be consistent, they have become  godless. Donoso Cortes
has shown this admirably in his work on  "Catholicism, Liberalism, and Socialism." The sad
spectacle  which in our age meets the eye of the Christian, is universal;  there is no longer
a Catholic nation; Christendom has ceased to  exist. This is held by the statesmen of to-day
to be a vast  improvement on the old social system. Medieval barbarism, as  they term it, has,
according to them, met with just condemnation; and to return to it now, would be to drag an
advanced age  centuries backward, a horror which no sane man could contemplate.

Undoubtedly there were many abuses under the old regime, which  the most sincere Christian
regrets, and could not wish to see  restored, or again attempted. But, its great feature, the
inner  link which bound the system together, its unity under the  guidance of the universal
Church, was the only safeguard for the  general happiness of mankind. This admirable unity
has been  broken into fragments; each part does for itself, and thus the  world lies at the
mercy of Might, and each nation goes about  like "a strong man armed, keeping his house."

Even Heeren, a writer who is strongly Protestant and liberal, is  driven to confess in his
"History of the Political System of  Europe," that the reign of Frederick the Great, in Prussia,
was  "immediately followed by those great convulsions in states,  which gave the ensuing period
a character so different from the  former. The contemporary world, which lived in it, calls
it the  revolutionary; but it is yet too early to decide by what name it  will be denoted by
posterity, after the lapse of a century."

After a brief review of the various states as they existed  toward the middle of the last century,
he adds: "The efforts of  the rulers to obtain unlimited power had overthrown the old  national
freedom in all the states of the Continent; the  assemblies of the states had disappeared,
or were reduced to  mere forms; nowhere had they been modelled into a true national  representation."

He does not see that, in order to obtain that "unlimited power,"  the rulers had thrown off
the yoke of Church authority  everywhere, and that Christendom disappeared with the "old  national
freedom" as soon as the key-stone of the edifice, the  papacy, was ejected from its place.

Nevertheless, he was keen enough to perceive it necessary to  call in armed force to uphold
that usurped power of rulers:

"For the strength of the states no other criterion was known  than standing armies. And, in
reality, there was scarcely any  other. By the perfection which they had attained, and which
kept  pace almost with the growing power of the princes, the line of  partition was gradually
drawn between them and the nations;  they only were armed; the nations were defenceless."

This great German historian carries his views further still, and  confesses that, "if the political
supports were in a tottering  condition, the moral were no less shattered. The corner-stone
of  every political system, the sanctity of legitimate possession,  without which there would
be only one war of all against all,  was gone; politicians had already thrown off the mask
in Poland;  the lust of aggrandizement had prevailed . . . . The  indissoluble bond connecting
morals and politics being broken,  the result was to make egotism the prevailing principle
of  public as well as private life."

Admirable reflections, doubtless, but incomplete; the  Protestantism of the writer not allowing
him to perceive that,  the only sure defender of morality having been discarded,  egotism could
not but prevail. Therefore does he complain, being  blind to the true cause of the disorder,
that "democratic ideas,  transported from America to Europe, were spread and cherished in 
the midst of the monarchical system--ready materials for a  conflagration far more formidable
than their authors had  anticipated, should a burning spark unhappily light upon them.  Others
had already taken care to profane the religion of the  people; and what remains sacred to the
people when religion and  constitution are profaned?"

This last observation, thrown in at the end of some very sound  considerations, would have
made them far more striking, had it  appeared at their head as the great source of all the
catastrophes which ensued. But it requires a Catholic eye to  take in the whole truth, and
a Catholic tongue to give the right  explanation of history, as of all things else.

Many reflections similar to those above quoted have been made by  non-Catholic writers, and
the defenders of the Church have  spoken with clearness and energy throughout. Nevertheless,
the  evil has continued to grow more universal and more alarming,  until, to-day, no principle
on which the social fabric can  securely stand is acknowledged by those who rule the exterior
world. And of what Heeren calls the violation of "the sanctity  of legitimate possession,"
let Poland and many other states  speak, nay, those of the Father of the faithful himself,
to  whose warning voice rulers have now so long persistently turned  a deaf ear. Where are
now even the fragments of that "corner- stone" of the old "political system?"

Such is the state of affairs, not only in Europe, but generally  throughout the world, so that
the Catholic Church has at length  entered fully upon that stage of her existence when she
possesses individual subjects full of tender affection and devotedness, whose number, thank
God! increases every day, but not a single State which acknowledges her as its director and
teacher.

Ireland may be destined to become the first one which shall  acknowledge her, and set an example
to the rest. If ever she  enjoys self-government, she will surely do so, for Catholic she 
is to the core, and Catholic she cannot but remain.

When it was said that home-rule would not serve as a sure  panacea for all her evils, it will
be understood as applying to  the actual moment and nothing else. That it would not be a good
thing for her ever to enjoy real self-government was never in  our mind. Moral force is bringing
this nearer to her; and step  by step she is learning how to walk without support. Already,
she possesses something of political franchise, and enjoys  municipal government more truly
than Frenchmen do after all  their social convulsions.

There are men, Irishmen even, who pretend that she would subside  into anarchy if her destiny
were confided to her own care. They  point to the constant wranglings which have been her bane
for  centuries, and the "prophet" who wrote the "Battle of Dorking"  represents her, as soon
as the humiliation of England left her  free, struggling painfully in the throes of anarchy.
That this  general opinion of men with regard to Ireland is but too true,  was conceded in
another place, yet only so far as concerned  interests which were trifling, or, at best, of
no high character; that when the object at stake is one of great importance, there  was more
steadiness, unanimity, energy, and true heroism in the  Irish people, than in any other known
to history in modern times. And this reflection is certainly borne out by the issues of all
the secular struggles of the Irish with Scandinavianism,  feudalism, and Protestantism.

Surely is there in them the right material for a nation; and,  when the day comes for the country
to take in hand, under  Providence, her own destiny and work it out, the "prophet" will  find
himself sadly mistaken when, freed forever from the  degradation of pauperism, she is at liberty
to raise her  thoughts above food and raiment; when her children, lifted by a  solid Christian
education to the high level of intellectual  foresight, shall be able to discuss the great
objects of their  national interests, with no question of clan and clan; then  wrangling will
cease, as far as public questions are concerned,  and be merely left to matters of minor importance,
or private  affairs, as with all other nations. But that concentrated energy  which has marked
the race throughout that long fight of  centuries against such overwhelming odds, will still
continue as  their distinguishing characteristic, but turned now to the  question of their
own national welfare, and no longer to the  aversion of doom.

Then will Europe see what a truly Christian people is, for then  there will be no other left;
and the superiority of principles,  of strength of mind, energy of character, naturally fostered
by  deep religious convictions, will afford another proof of  Montesquieu's reflection, that
"the Christian faith, which seems  to have for its object only the future life, is likewise
the  best calculated to make people happy and prosperous during this."

If ever men are brought to acknowledge the fatal error they made  in rejecting the sacred safeguard
which Christ left them in his  Church, it will be by looking on the example of a nation  actually
existing, governed by the great principles which alone  can insure the happiness of the individual
and the prosperity of  the whole people.

In all the foregoing considerations Ireland has been looked upon  as a nation full of vigor
and energy; but, as this vital point  is denied by some, who bear the reputation of thoughtful
writers, it is well to establish it clearly before our minds.

Is Ireland a nation? Some say, No; others, among them Mr. Froude, say she is divided into two
nations.

The first of these assertions, that she is not a nation, is in  appearance so self-evident
and true that it seems folly to deny  it. She has no government of her own; her destinies seem
to be  altogether in the hands of a hostile race, which rules her by a  Parliament, where her
voice is scarcely heard. She has no army  nor navy, no commerce, no treasury, not the lowest
prerogative  of sovereignty. There is a green flag still somewhere with a  harp on it and a
crown above the harp, reserved for state  occasions, and unfurled now and again, when a show
of loyalty  and a little enthusiasm is called for; but that flag never waves  the Irish to
battle, not even when fighting for England. There  is no Irish standard-bearer for it, as there
was under the  Tudors, when the flag of Ulster was seen amid the armies of  Elizabeth. The
name of Ireland is never mentioned in any treaty  with foreign powers; and, when the sovereign
of England,  Scotland, and Ireland, signs a treaty, a convention, nay, a poor  protocol, with
any foreign state, the name of Ireland is not to  be seen on the parchment, save at its head,
among the titles of  the monarch. There is no Irish seal even to affix to the  document: the
country is a national non-entity.

But other men, and wise men too, discover a strange anomaly in  this curious country. They
hold that it is composed of two  distinct nations, and furnish excellent reasons in support
of  their theory.

They talk in this fashion: "Look at the people; travel the  country north and south, and converse
with them as you go. What  do you find? Unity of feeling, aims, agreement of opinion on all
possible subjects? Just the opposite! You find Jacob and Esau on  every side struggling in
the womb of their mother. The quarrel  between Sassenach and Gael still goes on. What two figures
can  be found more antagonistic than the Orangeman of Ulster and the  Milesian of Connaught?
Yet they are both children of the same  country."

And so deep-grained is the difference between them that,  although they have lived side by
side for centuries, they are  still as hostile to each other as when they first met in battle
array. The Danes, after a struggle of a little more than two  centuries, gave up the contest
and became Celts. Strongbow's  Normans soon adopted the manners of the old inhabitants,  intermarried
with them, and, after a lapse of four centuries,  though quarrels often broke out between the
one and the other,  they were to all intents and purposes Celts, the old race, as it  were,
absorbing the Norman blood, and always showing itself in  the children.

But, when will the children of James's Scotchmen or Cromwell's  Covenanters coalesce with the
descendants of the Milesians? The  longer they dwell together, the farther they seem apart,
the  more they seem to hate each other; and every 12th of July, 5th  of November, 17th of March,
or even 15th of August, brings  danger of bloodshed and strife to every city, hamlet, and town.
Surely, this fact speaks of two nations in the country.

The question here presented is indeed a complicated one,  requiring solid distinctions in order
to elucidate it; and,  strange to say, this last difficulty of the presence of two  nations
in Ireland offers greater obstacles to the firm  establishment of our opinion than the first
assertion, so clear  and undeniable in appearance, that there is no Irish nation!

If true nationality existed only in the externals of government,  in an army, navy, commerce,
a public seal and flag, and  recognition by foreign powers, further discussion would clearly
be useless, and the subject might as well at once be dropped.

But the true idea of a nation embraces much more than this;  there is such a thing as a national
soul, and all the array of  accidents alluded to above constitute only the body, or, more 
truly, the surroundings. As a writer in the North American  Review (vol. cxv., p. 379) has
well expressed it, a nation is "a  race of men, small or great, whom community of traditions
and  feeling binds together into a firm, indestructible unity, and  whose love of the same
past directs their hopes and fears to the  same future."

In this sense nationality assuredly belongs to Ireland. More,  perhaps, than among any other
people on earth, is there for the  great bulk of them "community of traditions and feeling,"
binding them together into "a firm and indestructible unity;"  and who shall say that they
feel no love for their past, because  that past has been clouded with sorrow? Nay, this fact
makes the  past dearer, and tends all the more to direct their hopes and  fears to the same
future; a future, indeed, still dim and  uncertain, and not to be named with perfect certainty,
but  wrapped in mists like the morning; yet the faint flush of the  dawn is already there that
shall pale and die away when the full  orb of the sun appears.

The reader may remember what was said of the unanimity so  striking in all Irishmen, wherever
they may be found; that,  though private disputes may be taken up among them with such  ardor
that their quarrels have become proverbial, when the  question refers to their country or their
God, in a moment they  are united, suddenly transformed into steady friends, ready to  shed
their blood side by side for the great objects which  entirely absorb their natures.

This feeling it is which forms the soul of a nation. Wherever  this is to be found, there is
an indestructible nationality;  wherever it is absent, there is only a dead body, however strong
may seem its government, however vast its armies, however high  its so-called culture and refinement.

These reflections being kept in view, judicious men will agree  that, among Europeans at least,
there is scarcely any other  nationality so strong and vigorous as the Irish. Their  traditional
feeling keeps their past ever present to their eyes;  their ardent nature hopes ever against
hope; misfortunes which  would utterly break down and dishearten any other people, leave  them
still full of bright anticipations, and, as they seem to  weep over the cold body of a dear
mother--Erin, their country-- they think only of her resurrection.

But are there not two nations among them--two nations radically  opposed to each other and
incapable of coalescing? Supposing a  resurrection of the people, which of the two is to prevail--the
numerical majority, or the so far influential minority? In  either event, it is fair to suppose
a new state of helotism for  the one party or the other. Is this the spectacle which the  regenerated
nation is likely to present?

In speaking of the resurrection of Ireland, the old, massive,  compact body of the people,
the venerable race, Celtic in its  aspirations and tendencies, if not altogether in its origin,
has  always been kept in view; and that anomalous, foreign  excrescence which has so steadily
refused to assimilate with the  mass, and has until our days remained "encamped" in Ireland,
as  the Turks are justly said to have remained "encamped" in Europe,  has never entered into
our reckoning.

The true Irishman has ever been catholic--the word is used in  its grammatical and not in its
religious sense--in fellowship.  The race, as now constituted, is assuredly of mixed origin,
and  large drafts of foreign population have been added from time to  time to the primitive
stock, which has always been kind to admit, absorb, and make them finally Celtic. Strongbow's
Normans were  not the last who submitted to that process; as was seen, many  Cromwellians became
the fathers, or grandfathers at least, of as  sturdy an Irish branch as ever flourished in
the strong air of  the country.

But a comparatively small body of men has doggedly refused to  submit to this process, and
continued to this day an English or  Lowland Scotch colony on the Irish soil. The future of
Ireland  does not take them in, for the very simple reason that they are  not of her, they
do not belong to her, they are as much  foreigners to-day as they ever were. Therefore do we
admit the  existence of two nations, if people are pleased to call them so,  in Ireland, but
of one nation only have we written. The only  question in regard to this second "nation" is:
What will become  of them in the future? Are they, in their turn, to become helots, after having
vainly striven so long to make helots of the  others? God forbid! No true Irishman nourishes
in his soul such  feelings of retaliation or revenge.

Assuredly, they will be prevented from disturbing any longer the  public order, and forced
at length to respect the majority, or  rather, the mass of their countrymen. No one can object
to  having such a necessary measure imposed upon them. In the many  civil discords which, for
more than a century and a half, have  disgraced the north of Ireland, they have almost invariably
been  the aggressors. The government openly taking their part for a  long time, they had the
whole field to themselves, and what use  they made of their privilege, and how they improved
their  opportunity, is known to all. When, at last, the public  authorities could no longer
pretend to ignore their hateful  spirit, and began to show some signs of protecting the hitherto
much-abused majority, by forbidding those odious processions to  which the others always attached
such importance, they gave  themselves the airs of a persecuted body of men, and pretended
that henceforth their lives, and those of their wives and  children, were no longer safe.

The province of Ulster being closed to them as a field of  operations, they transferred to
Upper Canada the exhibition of  their blood-thirsty hatred, and on several occasions the  Catholic
population of the country had to protect their churches, musket in hand. Even in the United
States they have rendered  themselves odious to the people by foisting their spirit of  strife
on a land where they cannot but be strangers, and by  staining some of the streets of New York
with blood, in order to  gratify their senseless animosity.

It is surely time that an end be put to such absurd and  dangerous antics, not abroad only,
but at home. In the new order  of things now dawning upon Ireland, there can no longer be room
for them; and the very name of Orangeman must disappear forever  from the vocabulary of the
new nation, to the joy of all  peaceful and law-abiding citizens.

That is all the persecution they need expect. Not only will  there be room for them still in
the country of their birth, but  of course they will have their due share in all the privileges
of citizenship. Political distinctions between themselves and  the old race will be unknown;
social distinctions will be a  question for themselves to settle. Should they show the  slightest
desire of combining with the majority of their  countrymen, these latter will be generous enough
to forget the  past, and perhaps the others may imitate their predecessors, the  Danes, the
Normans, and even some of their Cromwellian kin, and  become, at last, Hibernis hiberniores.

What is said of political and social distinctions will hold good  also for religious tenets.
Let them, if they choose, continue to  stand by their Presbyterian dogmas, provided they do
not quarrel  with the majority for professing what they love to believe; but  that belief must
come to an external and public profession. They  will often hear the bells of Catholic churches;
as they pass  outside, if they do not enter, the strains of the glorious music  and noble anthems,
resounding within, will fall on their ears;  they will see the statue of the Blessed Virgin
borne through the  streets on the 15th of August, amid showers of snowy blossoms,  falling
from the innocent hands of children; all this they must  endure, if it be so hard to endure
it; but this is not  persecution. Even to their eyes, if their heart be not frozen by  a cold
belief, the sight will bear some attractions. And if they  come to think, that what is oldest
in Christianity is the best,  and that, after all, Catholicity has something in it which makes
life sweet and pleasant, it can scarcely be held a crime in the  universal Church to open her
arms and receive back to her bosom  those wandering and so long obstinate children.

When will all this come to pass? Who can tell? But stranger  things than these have already
taken place in Ireland, and we  are confident that future historians of the race will have
to  record greater wonders still, and facts more stubborn and  difficult of explanation.

At all events, should the inflexible Puritanism of the Scotch  colony stand proof against the
allurements of a motherly and  tender-hearted Church, they must at least become subject to
the  iron laws of population and absorption. When the public statutes  are no longer drawn
up for their special benefit, when no new  swarms of brethren come to swell their ranks, when
they are  abandoned to the merciless laws of loss and gain in numbers,  then will people soon
see on which side is true morality, and by  which the ordinances of God are really respected;
then will many  vapid accusations against the holy Catholic Church of themselves  disappear,
and the eyes of men will open to the great fact that  Ireland must be and remain one in race,
feeling, and, above all,  in religion. The foreign element will have dwindled to  insignificance,
if it shall not have utterly disappeared. Indeed, it may be safely predicted that the day will
arrive when the  announcement of the natural demise of the last Puritan in  Ireland will appear
in the daily newspapers as a curious piece  of intelligence, not devoid of a certain interest.

Though moral force, as the agent of the regeneration of Ireland,  has been our theme all through,
we would not have our readers  infer that Irishmen should adopt the do-nothing policy, and
leave to God alone the work of raising them up. The moral force  spoken of is that of human
beings endowed with activity and  determination; steady and persevering in the pursuit of well-
organized plans of their own conception.

Let Irishmen lift up their eyes and behold what they might do,  did they only appreciate their
strength and husband it. Dire  calamities, which God designed from the first to convert into
blessings, have scattered them over the world, and brought out  that power of expansion which
was always in their nature, but  lay dormant and cramped under the pressure of terrible  circumstances.
They again show themselves as that old race which  three thousand years ago spread itself all
over Europe and Asia.  They now bear in their hands an emblem which they had not then-- the
cross of Christ! And the cross is the sign of universality  in time and space. To that sign,
since the triumph of the  Saviour on the day of his resurrection, is given the rule of the
world till the end of time. Now that our globe is known at last,  the cross must be planted
all over its surface, and in this  great work the Irish race is clearly destined to bear a
conspicuous part.

In the fulfilment of that divine vocation they are dispersed,  and whatever is dispersed is
deprived of a great part of its  strength. How can the disjecta membra, scattered far and wide
by  Typhon, become again Osiris? Under the guidance of God, by that  great instrument of modern
times, the power of association and  organization, aided by a steady, energetic will.

Ezekiel has admirably described the process in his thirty- seventh chapter. The Lord must first
speak: "Ye dry bones, hear  the word of the Lord. . . . Behold, I will send spirit into you,
and ye shall live; and I will lay sinews on you, and will cause  flesh to grow over you, and
will cover you with skin; and I will  give you spirit, and ye shall live."

All this seems to be the work of God alone, yet, in the very  words of the prophet, the dry
bones have their part to perform:

"As I prophesied, there was a noise, a commotion, and the bones  came together, each one to
his joint."

There is the whole process; it supposes a noise, a commotion, a  rising, an assembling together,
and a fitting each one into his  own joint. They possess an activity of their own, which they
must use. And the phenomenon is to take place in the midst of "a  vast plain "--two great continents--over
the surface of which  the "bones" are found on every side, appearing "exceeding dry."

With what a power will that army be invested when it rises up  and stands upon its feet! We
may form some faint idea of it,  when in our large cities any thing occurs to excite the interest
and warm up the feeling of that apparently inert Celtic mass.  The largest halls constructed
cannot contain the multitudes who  have only read the announcement of a meeting, a lecture,
or a  charitable undertaking. Such scenes are witnessed every day  along the banks of the St.
Lawrence, the Hudson, and the  Delaware Rivers; by the shores of Chesapeake Bay; in all the
great centres of population dotting the Atlantic coast; in the  heart of the continent along
the winding course of the  Mississippi and Missouri; and already, even in the far West, on
the spreading shores of the Pacific Ocean. The same is occurring  all over the inhabited portion
of Australia and the adjacent  islands. What power, then, would be theirs did those "bones"
know how to come together each in his own joint!

How is it that we hear of no concerted action among them for  their country's sake? Is each
man so busy, and lost in his own  little sphere of interest and speculation, that he cannot
spare  a moment's thought for the claims of his native country? Who can  say this? Moreover,
the best means of promoting their own  private interests would be to raise before the eyes
of all the  status of the country with which they are naturally identified.  The truth is,
each one waits for another to set the example, the  mass being ever ready to follow a lead
and show its good-will.  Association is needed.

When they turn their eyes to the incessant struggle going on in  the mother-country, when they
read in their own newspapers the  discussions of the Irish press, of the questions debated
on the  soil most dear to them, and the agitation of the momentous  interests pending and awaiting
a final decision among their  former countrymen, no doubt their feelings are strongly moved;
the hopes and fears of their youth, before they left their  native shores, are revived with
renewed force, and their love  for their green island is as ardent as ever.

But is this all? Is it enough that the heart of each one is  stirred within him? Is it not
for them to see that the influence  of their new name, new position, and bettered circumstances,
be  brought to bear, however far away they may be, upon the great  home questions of land-tenure,
education, the elective franchise, a native Parliament, commerce, manufactures, and all matters
touching on the general welfare of Ireland? If, having become  adopted citizens of a new country,
they can no longer act as  citizens of Erin, they may and ought at least to interest them 
selves in these matters as far as true loyalty to their adopted  country may allow them; and
this they can best do by association.

The bonds of a wise organization would give firmness and  compactness to the whole moral force
of the dispersed  nationality. By association, the scattered "dry bones" would be  speedily
changed into a solid array of living warriors standing  upon their feet, and the startling
spectacle would astonish the  whole world, and win for the race the involuntary respect of
all  who should witness or hear of it. Nothing would be easier than  to set such a thing on
foot, for, although so far apart in  appearance, the ma- jority of Irish families, from the
very fact  of emigration, have half of their members at home and half  abroad, joined together
by an active correspondence and a  constant transmission of funds. The managers of the movement
would only have to organize for a general object, what already  is organized in fact, and direct
to the common good what is now  done privately.

A word has already been said on the possible management of such an organization: that the movement
should begin at home, in the island; that its supervision should be left to the true leaders
of the nation; and that all the workings, details, and executive part, may be safely intrusted
to the active members of the association.

The class here designated as leaders of the nation is already  known to the reader. The old
nobility having been destroyed,  there is no other body which truly represent the Irish people
to-day save the clergy. This is, no doubt, a misfortune, but none the less a fact. It offers
the anomaly of clergymen meddling to a certain extent in politics; but, in Ireland, this is
unavoidable.

How does the whole body of the European Catholic clergy  understand its position in all those
Catholic congresses and  unions, which are now, thank God! starting up in all Christian  countries?
How do the laymen, on their side, appreciate the  share they have to take in those various
movements? How do they  act under the lead of their spiritual advisers? Are any odious  distinctions
ever known in those associations? Can any  misunderstanding arise among men animated with a
true love for  religion? And why should not the same be true of Ireland, among  a people so
full of love for country? This is what is meant when  the terms leaders and followers, clergy
and laity, are here used.

Another consideration will show still more forcibly the  importance of the great measure here
proposed. One circumstance  must have struck those who read the detailed reports of the  Catholic
congresses mentioned above--the sudden appearance of a  large array of laymen, illustrious
by their birth, wealth,  political power, or literary attainments; but, for the most part,
not so well known for their deep attachment to the cause of the  Church. A new channel of activity
was suddenly opened up to them; they threw themselves into it, and became the bold champions
of  a cause to which, undoubtedly, they had been individually  attached, but of which they
now became the public men. And there  is little doubt that many young men, lukewarm before,
and  perhaps with nothing more than the remembrance of the Christian  education they had once
received, suddenly revived in spirit and  made a solemn profession of a cause which, perhaps,
they would  not have had the courage openly to advocate, did not the number  and names of the
first originators of the movement encourage  them to join in it heart and soul.

Now, it is said, perhaps too truly, that the warm religious  feeling which has been all along
claimed as the most striking  characteristic of the Irish race, is no longer shared alike by
all classes of Irish Catholics; that, too often, when  individuals among them rise in the social
scale, and reach a  step in the social ladder from which they imagine that they can  look down
upon the despised mass below, they no longer feel that  deep reverence for their religion which
had characterized their  youth, and, after all, are not very different from the mass of  non-Catholics
among whom they prefer to move. This class of men  has been well described by Moore in his
own person, in various  passages of his "Irish Gentleman in search of a Religion."

The fact is, indeed, too true; but what is the chief cause of  it? One of the most active means
of bringing about such a result  we take to be the complete isolation in which young men of
the  class referred to find themselves in their own sphere of life.  There is, in fact, no
motive for displaying their attachment to  their religion, and no respectable means of doing
so. They do  not feel their souls moved by sufficient proselytic ardor to  induce them, of
their own accord, to originate any thing of that  kind, and the generality of them have, probably,
not received  from Nature the talents requisite to make them leaders in any  cause whatever.
No one around them moves in that direction;  hence their apathy and consequent lukewarmness
in the practice  and outward profession of their faith.

But change all the surroundings; present them an influential  body to which it is an honor
to belong--a body marching openly  under the banner of the true Church of Christ and of their
country, bound together as of old--and then will it be seen  whether or not they indeed are
the degenerate sons of martyred  ancestors they now appear to be.

It is indeed very remarkable that, of all countries, Ireland  seems to make the least show
in those Catholic unions and  congresses now so widely spread throughout Europe. The reason
for this, perhaps, is, that there seemed less cause for their  existence in Ireland than elsewhere.
But, as, in Ireland, their  object would not only embrace the interests of religion, but  likewise
those of the country itself, it seems natural to think  that there they are particularly wanted.

Let the leaders of the nation, then, bestir themselves. Long  ages of oppression unfortunately
have rendered them somewhat  timid and seemingly afraid of jeopardizing the important  interests
confided to their care. Let them lift up their eyes  and see that the time for timidity has
passed away: the enemy is  reckless and open in his attacks; their resistance must be  equally
undisguised and fearless. The people themselves  understand this and occasionally display a
boldness which shows  that the old heroism still lives in them; but they want leaders,  and,
if the right ones are not fast to take hold of them, they  may fall into the hands of wrong-headed
guides. Let the true  guides look out and see how broad are the lines which divide the  good
from the evil, and that victory is sure to the stout of  heart, when backed by the serried
masses of a united people.

The principle of association and the machinery of organization  must be applied to all subjects
connected with the resurrection  of the country. What has been done so effectually for the
cause  of temperance must be done likewise for education, for the  purchase or tenure of land,
for the development of agriculture,  manufactures, and commerce, for the true representation
of the  nation, for free municipal government, for the securing of a  truly Irish yeomanry
and gentry, for a thousand objects on which  the future welfare of the nation depends. All
classes of society, persons of every age and of either sex, yes, women and children, ought
to be induced to take an interest in what concerns all  alike. Every possible occasion should
be taken advantage of to  insure the attainment of the ultimate object. When such a work  is
really entered upon in earnest, the results will be  astonishing.

This is the complete development of moral force, and, until all  these means have had fair
trial, no one can say that moral force  has been fully tried and has failed.

Such a system would, we firmly believe, result in the ultimate  restoration of Ireland's rights
and would surely culminate in  her final resurrection at no distant date. That the Irish would
enter with spirit into those various associations has been  sufficiently demonstrated by previous
examples, particularly  under O'Connell; and it is impossible to see how surer, greater,  and
speedier results could be obtained by any amount of physical  force of which Ireland is capable.
What array of physical force  can the Irish muster to compete at all with their powerful  rivals,
situated as they are with the chains of centuries still  binding them down, for, though the
shackles may be actually  removed, their effect is still there. The very statement of the 
terms, Ireland versus England, is enough to show the  hopelessness of such a combat. It is
a very easy thing to  magnify the old heroism of the Irish, and cast opprobrium on the  present
bearers of the name, as did several newspaper writers  recently, for not displaying the "pluck"
of their ancestors who  fought against Elizabeth, Cromwell, and William of Orange. It is  forgotten
that circumstances have altered considerably since  those days when the Irish possessed a regular
army led by  experienced generals: restore those circumstances, and the Irish  of to-day might
outdo their ancestors; at all events, there is  no reason for supposing that they would be
inferior. However,  there is such a thing as impossibility, and any attempt of such  a nature,
with such surroundings, must be deemed by all sensible  men not merely rashness, but folly.

In concluding these pages, the author begs to be allowed a word  as to their general character,
in reply to a dogmatic and  comprehensive criticism which it is easy to foresee will be  passed
on them. It will undoubtedly be asserted that an undue  prominence has been given to the religious
side of the Irish  question, while its many political aspects have been left in the  background.
This charge will be laid at the door of the clerical  and religious character of the writer,
and may give rise to the  notion that the view here taken of the subject is not the right 
one, but a radical failure.

The answer to this objection is, in brief, that no one can treat  seriously and properly of
the Irish race without taking a  religious view of it. Whoever adopts a different method of
treating the matter would, in our opinion, go completely astray;  would take in only a few
side-views; would, in fact, pretend to  have made a serious study of it, which he offered to
the public  as such, while ignoring the chief and almost only feature.

The Irish is a religious race, and nothing else. It seems that  such was its character thousands
of years ago, even when pagan.  At the time when Hanno was sent by the Carthaginian senate
beyond the Pillars of Hercules to explore the western coast of  Africa, toward the south--of
which voyage the short narrative is  still left us--Himilco, brother to Hanno, was similarly
commissioned to form settlements on the European coast, toward  the north. The account of this
latter expedition, which was  extant in the time of Pliny the Elder, is unfortunately lost;
but, in the poem of R. Festus Avienus, entitled "Ora Maritima,"  there are copious extracts
from it, in which, at least, the  sense of the original is preserved. Avienus, after speaking
of  the "Insulae OEstrimnides," which Heeren thinks must be the  Scilly Islands, goes on to say:

     "Ast hinc duobus in Sacram (sic insulam
     Dixere prisci) solibus cursus rati est.
     Haec inter undas multam caespitem jacet,
     Eamque late gens Hibernorum colit."

The passage runs almost into literal English as follows:

     "Thence in two days, a good ship in sailing
     Reaches the Holy Isle(1)--so was she called of old--
     That in the sea nestles, whose turf exuberant
     The race of Hibernians tills."

(1 Dr. Lingard, evidently perplexed by this expression, asks  himself, "What might its origin
have been?" and suggests that  the name of Ierne--the same as Erin--having been given to  Ireland
by the ancients, and the Greek iepa--holy-- bearing a  great resemblance to it, Avienus might
have thus fallen into a  very natural mistake of confounding the one with the other. But, 
in the first place, Himilco's report was certainly not written  in Greek, but in Phoenician,
and Avienus seems merely to have  translated that report. Moreover, the word iepa begins with
a  very strong aspirate, equivalent to a consonant, while there are  few vowels softer in any
language than the first in Erin or  Ierne. Heeren does not attempt such an explanation, but
concedes  that the Carthaginians, as well as the Phoenicians before them,  called Ireland the
Holy Isle.)

In the time of Himilco, therefore, five hundred years before  Christ, Ireland was called the
Holy Isle, a title she had  received long before: Sic insulam discere prisci. In what that
holiness may have consisted precisely, it is impossible now to  say; all we know is, that foreign
navigators, who were  acquainted with the world as far as it was then known, whose  ships had
visited the harbors of all nations, could find no more  apt expression to describe the island
than to say that, morally,  it was "a holy spot," and physically "a fair green meadow," or,
as her children to this day call her, "the green gem of the sea."

But we have better means of judging in what the holiness of the  people consisted after the
establishment of Christianity in  their midst; and the description of it given in the fourth
chapter of this book, taken from the most trustworthy documents,  shows how well deserved was
the title the island bore.

From that day forth the religious type was clearly impressed on  the nation, and has ever remained
deeply engraven in its  character. The race was never distinguished for its fondness for  trade,
for its manufactures, for depth of policy, for worldly  enlightenment; its annals speak of
no lust of conquest among its  people; the brilliant achievements of foreign invasion, the
high  political and social aspirations which generally give lustre to  the national life of
many a people, belong not to them. But  religious feeling, firm adherence to faith, invincible
attachment to the form of Christianity they had received from St. Patrick, formed at all times
their striking characteristics.

From the day when their faith was first attacked by the Tudors  did it chiefly blaze forth
into a special splendor, which these  pages have striven faintly to represent. Before taking
up the  pen to write, after the serious study of documents, only one  great feature struck
us--that of a deep religious conviction;  and, after having seen what some writers have had
to say  recently, the same feature strikes us still. We will not deny  that this fact moved
us to write, and the task was the more  grateful, probably, because of our own personal religious
character; but we are confident that any layman, whatever might  be his talent and disposition
for describing worldly scenes, who  took up Irish history, could find nothing else in it of
real  importance to render the annals of the race attractive to the  common run of readers.

And is not religion more capable of giving a people true  greatness and real heroism than any
worldly excellence? Men of  sound judgment will always find at least as much interest  attached
to the history of the first Maccabees as to that of  Epaminondas; and the self-sacrifice of
the Vendean Cathelineau,  with his "beads" and his "sacred heart," will always appear to  an
impartial judge of human character more truly admirable than  that of any general or marshal
of the first Napoleon. Religious  heroism, having for object something far above even the purest
patriotic fervor, can inspire deeds more truly worthy of human  admiration than this, the highest
natural feeling of the human  heart; and, for a Christian, the most inspiring pages of history
are those which tell of the superhuman exertions of devoted  knights to wrest the sepulchre
of our Lord from the polluted  hands of the Moslem.

But religion did not confine her influence over Irishmen to the  bravery which she breathed
into them on the battle-field.  Religion truly constituted their inner life in all the  vicissitudes
of their national existence; it was the only  support left them in the darkest period of their
annals, during  the whole of the last century; and, when the dawn came at last  with the flush
of hope, religion was the only halo which  surrounded them. Their emigration even, their exodus
chiefly,  was in fact the sublime outpouring of a crucified nation,  carrying the cross as
their last religious emblem, and planting  it in the wilds of far-distant continents as their
only  escutcheon, and the sure sign which should apprise travellers of  the existence of Irishmen
in the deserts of North America and  Australia.

Truly, those men are very ignorant of the Irish character who  would abstract the religious
feature from it, and paint the  nation as they would any other European people, whose great
aim  in these modern days seems to be to forget the first fervor of  their Christian origin.
With the Irish this cannot be. The vivid  warmth of their cradle has not yet cooled down; and,
if it would  be indeed ridiculous to represent the English of the nineteenth  century as the
pious subjects of Alfred or Edward, it would be  equally foolish to depict the Irish of to-day
as the worldlings  and godless of France, Italy, or Spain. The Irish patriot could  not be
like them, without deserting his standard and the colors  for which his race has fought. The
nation to which he has the  honor of belonging is still Christian to the core; and, if some
few have really repudiated the love of the religion they took in  at their mother's knee, the
only means left them of remaining  Irishmen, at least in appearance, is not to parade their
total  lack of this, the chief characteristic of their race.