Within a few years the government seemed to become conscious of the great number of beggars
in Rome, and of the reproach they offered to the wise and paternal regulations of the priestcraft.
Accordingly, for a short time, they carried on a move in the right direction, which had been
begun by the Triumvirate of 1849, during their short career. Some hundreds of the beggars were
hired at the rate of a few baiocchi a day to carry on excavations in the Forum and in the Baths
of Caracalla. The selection was most appropriate. Only the old, decrepit, and broken-down were
taken,--the younger and sturdier were left. Ruined men were in harmony with the ruined temples.
Such a set of laborers was never before seen. Falstaff's ragged regiment was a joke to them.
Each had a wheelbarrow, a spade, or pick, and a cloak; but the last was the most important
part of their equipment. Some of them picked at the earth with a gravity that was equalled
only by the feebleness of the effort and the poverty of the result. Three strokes so wearied
them that they were forced to pause and gather strength, while others carried away the ant-hills
which the first dug up. It seemed an endless task to fill the wheelbarrows. Fill, did I say?
They were never filled. After a bucketful of earth had been slowly shovelled in, the laborer
paused, laid down his spade carefully on the little heap, sighed profoundly, looked as if to
receive congratulations on his enormous success, then, flinging, with a grand sweep, the tattered
old cloak over his left shoulder, lifted his wheelbarrow-shafts with dignity, and marched slowly
and measuredly forward towards the heap of deposit, as Belisarius might have moved at a funeral
in the intervals of asking for oboli. But reduced gentlemen, who have been accustomed to carry
round the hat as an occupation, always have a certain air of condescension when they work for
pay, and, by their dignity of deportment, make you sensible of their former superior state.
Occasionally, in case a forestiere was near, the older, idler, and more gentlemanlike profession
would be resumed for a moment, (as by parenthesis,) and if without success, a sadder dignity
would be seen in the subsequent march. Very properly for persons who had been reduced from
beggary to work, they seemed to be anxious both for their health and their appearance in public,
and accordingly a vast deal more time was spent in the arrangement of the cloak than in any
other part of the business. It was grand in effect, to see these figures, incumbered in their
heavy draperies, guiding their wheelbarrows through the great arches of Caracalla's Baths or
along the Via Sacra. It often reminded me of modern bassi-rilievi and portrait statues, in
which gentlemen looking sideways with very modern faces, and both hands full of swords, pens,
or books, stand impotently swaddled up in ancient togas or the folds of similar enormous cloaks.
The antique treatment with the modern subject was evident in both. If sometimes, with a foolish
spirit of innovation, one felt inclined to ask what purpose in either case these heroic mantles
subserved, and whether, in fact, they could not be dispensed with to advantage, he was soon
made to know that his inquiry indicated ignorance, and a desire to debase in the one case Man,
in the other Art.

It would, however, be a grievous mistake to suppose that all the beggars in the streets of
Rome are Romans. In point of fact, the greater number are strangers, who congregate in Rome
during the winter from every quarter. Naples and Tuscany send them by thousands. Every little
country town of the Abruzzi Mountains yields its contribution. From north, south, east, and
west they flock here as to a centre where good pickings may be had of the crumbs that fall
from the rich men's tables. In the summer season they return to their homes with their earnings,
and not one in five of those who haunted the churches and streets in the winter is to be seen.

It is but justice to the Roman government to say that its charities are very large. If, on
the one hand, it does not encourage commerce and industry, on the other, it liberally provides
for the poor. In proportion to its means, no government does more, if so much. Every church
has its Cassa dei Poveri. Numerous societies, such as the Sacconi, and other confraternities,
employ themselves in accumulating contributions for the relief of the poor and wretched. Well-endowed
hospitals exist for the care of the sick and unfortunate; and there are various establishments
for the charge and education of poor orphans. A few figures will show how ample are these charities.
The revenue of these institutions is no less than eight hundred and forty thousand scudi annually,
of which three hundred thousand are contributed by the Papal treasury, forty thousand of which
are a tax upon the Lottery. The hospitals, altogether, accommodate about four thousand patients,
the average number annually received amounting to about twelve thousand; and the foundling
hospitals alone are capable of receiving upwards of three thousand children annually. Besides
the hospitals for the sick, there is also a hospital for poor convalescents at Sta Trinita
dei Pellegrini, a lunatic asylum containing about four hundred patients, one for incurables
at San Giacomo, a lying-in hospital at San Rocco, and a hospital of education and industry
at San Michele. There are also thirteen societies for bestowing dowries on poor young girls
on their marriage; and from the public purse, for the same object, are expended every year
no less than thirty-two thousand scudi. In addition to these charities, are the sums collected
and administered by the various confraternities, as well as the sum of one hundred and seventy-two
thousand scudi distributed to the poor by the commission of subsidies. But though so much money
is thus expended, it cannot be said that it is well administered. The proportion of deaths
at the hospitals is very large; and among the foundlings, it amounted, between the years 1829
and 1833, to no less than seventy-two per cent.

The arrangements at these institutions were very much improved during the career of the Triumvirate,
and, under the auspices of the Princess Belgiojoso, cleanliness, order, and system were introduced.
The heroism of this noble-hearted woman during the trying days of the Roman siege deserves
a better record than I can give. She gave her whole heart and body to the regeneration of the
hospitals, and the personal care of the sick and wounded. Her head-quarters were at the Hospital
dei Pellegrini. Day after day and night after night she was at her post, never moving from
her chair, except to visit the various wards, and to comfort with tender words the sufferers
in their beds. Their faces, contorted with pain, smoothed at her approach; and her hand and
voice carried consolation wherever she went. Many a scene have I witnessed there more affecting
than any tragedy, in which I knew not which most to admire, the heroism of the sufferers or
the tender humanity of the consoler and nurse. In all her arrangements she showed that masterly
administrative faculty in which women are far superior to men. When she came to the Pellegrini,
all was in disorder; but a few days sufficed to reduce a chaotic confusion to exact and admirable
system. Hers was the brain that regulated all the hospitals. Always calm, she distributed her
orders with perfect tact and precision, and with a determination of purpose and clearness of
perception which commanded the minds of all about her. The care, fatigue, and labor which she
underwent would have broken down a less determined spirit. Nothing moved except from her touch.
In a little damp cell, a pallet of straw was laid on the brick floor, and there, when utterly
overcome, she threw herself down to sleep for a couple of hours,--no more; all the rest of
the time she sat at her desk, writing orders, giving directions, and supervising the new machinery
which owed its existence to her.

With the return of the Papal government came the old system. Certain it is that that system
does not work well. Despite the enormous sums expended in charity, the people are poor, the
mortality in the hospitals is very large. "Something is rotten in the state of" Rome.

There is one noble exception not to be forgotten. To the Hospital of San Michele Cardinal Tosti
has given a new life and vigor, and set an example worthy of his elevated position in the Church.
This foundation was formerly an asylum for poor children and infirm and aged persons; but of
late years an industrial and educational system has been ingrafted upon it, until it has become
one of the most enlarged and liberal institutions that can anywhere be found. It now embraces
not only an asylum for the aged, a house of correction for juvenile offenders and women, and
a house of industry for children of both sexes, but also a school of arts, in which music,
painting, drawing, architecture, and sculpture are taught gratuitously to the poor, and a considerable
number of looms, at which from eight hundred to one thousand persons are employed for the weaving
of woollen fabrics for the government. A stimulus has thus been given to education and to industry,
and particularly to improvements in machinery and manufacture. Once a year, during the holy
week, religious dramas and operas, founded on some Biblical subject, are creditably performed
by the pupils in a private theatre connected with the establishment. I was never present but
at one of these representations, when the tragical story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Ahednego
was performed. Honor to Cardinal Tosti for his successful efforts in this liberal direction!

At many of the convents in Rome, it is the custom at noon to distribute, gratis, at the door,
a quantity of soup, and any poor person may receive a bowlful on demand. Many of the beggars
thus become pensioners of the convents, and may be seen daily at the appointed hour gathering
round the door with their bowl and wooden spoon, in expectation of the Frate with the soup.
This is generally made so thick with cabbage that it might be called a cabbage-stew; but Soyer
himself never made a dish more acceptable to the palate of the guests than this. No nightingales'
tongues at a banquet of Tiberius, no edible birds-nests at a Chinese feast, were ever relished
with more gusto. The figures and actions of these poor wretches, after they have obtained their
soup, make one sigh for human nature. Each, grasping his portion as if it were a treasure,
separates himself immediately from his brothers, flees selfishly to a corner, if he can find
one empty, or, if not, goes to a distance, turns his back on his friends, and, glancing anxiously
at intervals all around, as if in fear of a surprise, gobbles up his cabbage, wipes out his
bowl, and then returns to companionship or disappears. The idea of sharing his portion with
those who are portionless occurs to him only as the idea of a robber to the mind of a miser.

Any account of the beggars of Rome without mention of the Capuchins and Franciscans would be
like performing the "Merchant of Venice" with no Shylock; for these orders are founded in beggary
and supported by charity. The priests do not beg; but their ambassadors, the lay-brothers,
clad in their long, brown serge, a cord around their waist, and a basket on their arm, may
be seen shuffling along at any hour and in every street, in dirty sandalled feet, to levy contributions
from shops and houses. Here they get a loaf of bread, there a pound of flour or rice, in one
place fruit or cheese, in another a bit of meat, until their basket is filled. Sometimes money
is given, but generally they are paid in articles of food. There is another set of these brothers
who enter your studio or ring at your bell and present a little tin box with a slit in it,
into which you are requested to drop any sum you please, for the holidays, for masses, for
wax candles, etc. As a big piece of copper makes more ring than gold, it is generally given,
and always gratefully received. Sometimes they will enter into conversation, and are always
pleased to have a little chat about the weather. They are very poor, very good-natured, and
very dirty. It is a pity they do not baptize themselves a little more with the material water
of this world. But they seem to have a hydrophobia. Whatever the inside of the platter may
be, the outside is far from clean. They walk by day and they sleep by night in the same old
snuffy robe, which is not kept from contact with the skin by any luxury of linen, until it
is worn out. Dirt and piety seem to them synonymous. Sometimes I have deemed, foolishly perhaps,
but after the manner of my nation, that their goodness would not wash off with the soil of
the skin,--that it was more than skin-deep; but as this matter is above reason, in better moods
I have faith that it would. Still, in disbelieving moments, I cannot help applying to them
Charles Lamb's famous speech,--"If dirt were trumps, what a hand they would have of it!" Yet,
beggars as they are, they have the reputation at Rome of being the most inoffensive of all
the conventual orders, and are looked upon by the common people with kindliness, as being thoroughly
sincere in their religious professions. They are, at least, consistent in many respects in
their professions and practice. They really mortify the flesh by penance, fasting, and wretched
fare, as well as by dirt. They do not proclaim the virtues and charms of poverty, while they
roll about in gilded coaches dressed in "purple and fine linen," or gloat over the luxuries
of the table. Their vices are not the cardinal ones, whatever their virtues may be. The "Miracles
of St. Peter," as the common people call the palaces of Rome, are not wrought for them. Their
table is mean and scantily provided with the most ordinary food. Three days in the week they
eat no meat; and during the year they keep three Quaresime. But, good as they are, their sour,
thin wine, on empty, craving stomachs, sometimes does a mad work; and these brothers in dirt
and piety have occasionally violent rows and disputes in their refectories over their earthen
bottles. It is only a short time since that my old friends the Capuchins got furious together
over their wine, and ended by knocking each other about the ears with their earthen jars, after
they had emptied them. Several were wounded, and had time to repent and wash in their cells.
But one should not be too hard on them. The temper will not withstand too much fasting. A good
dinner puts one at peace with the world, but an empty stomach is the habitation often of the
Devil, who amuses himself there with pulling all the nerve-wires that reach up into the brain.
I doubt whether even St. Simeon Stylites always kept his temper as well as he did his fast.

As I see them walking up and down the alleys of their vegetable garden, and under the sunny
wall where oranges glow and roses bloom, without the least asceticism, during the whole winter,
I do not believe in their doctrine, nor envy them their life. And I cannot but think that the
one hundred and fifty thousand Frati who are in the Roman States would do quite as good service
to God and man, if they were an army of laborers on the Campagna, or elsewhere, as in their
present life of beggary and self-contemplation. I often wonder, as I look at them, hearty and
stout as they are, despite their mode of life, what brought them to this pass, what induced
them to enter this order,--and recall, in this connection, a little anecdote current here in
Rome, to the following effect:--A young fellow, from whom Fortune had withheld her gifts, having
become desperate, at last declared to a friend that he meant to throw himself into the Tiber,
and end a life which was worse than useless. "No, no," said his friend, "don't do that. If
your affairs are so desperate, retire into a convent, become a Capuchin." "Ah, non!" was the
indignant answer; "I am desperate; but I have not yet arrived at such a pitch of desperation."

Though the Franciscans live upon charity, they have almost always a garden connected with their
convent, where they raise multitudes of cabbages, cauliflowers, finocchi, peas, beans, artichokes,
and lettuce. Indeed, there is one kind of the latter which is named after them,--capuccini.
But their gardens they do not till themselves; they hire gardeners, who work for them. Now
I cannot but think that working in a garden is just as pious an employment as begging about
the streets, though perhaps scarcely as profitable. The opinion, that, in some respects, it
would be better for them to attend to this work themselves, was forced upon my mind by a little
farce I happened to see enacted among their cabbages, the other day, as I was looking down
out of my window. My attention was first attracted by hearing a window open from a little three-story-high
loggia, opposite, hanging over their garden. A woman came forth, and, from amid the flower-pots
which half-concealed her, she dropped a long cord to the ground. "Pst, Pst," she cried to the
gardener at work below. He looked up, executed a curious pantomime, shrugged his shoulders,
shook his fore-finger, and motioned with his head and elbow sideways to a figure, visible to
me, but not to her, of a brown Franciscan, who was amusing himself in gathering some finocchi,
just round the corner of the wall. The woman, who was fishing for the cabbages, immediately
understood the predicament, drew up her cord, disappeared from the loggia, and the curtain
fell upon the little farce. The gardener, however, evidently had a little soliloquy after she
had gone. He ceased working, and gazed at the unconscious Franciscan for some time, with a
curious grimace, as if he were not quite satisfied at thus losing his little perquisite.

These brown-cowled gentlemen are not the only ones who carry the tin box. Along the curbstones
of the public walks, and on the steps of the churches, sit blind old creatures, and shake at
you a tin box, outside of which is a figure of the Madonna, and inside of which are two or
three baiocchi, as a rattling accompaniment to an unending invocation of aid. Their dismal
chant is protracted for hours and hours, increasing in loudness whenever the steps of a passer-by
are heard. It is the old strophe and antistrophe of begging and blessing, and the singers are
so wretched that one is often softened into charity. Those who are not blind have often a new
Diario or Lunario to sell towards the end of the year, and at other times they vary the occupation
of shaking the box by selling lives of the saints, which are sometimes wonderful enough. One
sad old woman, who sits near the Quattro Fontane, and says her prayers and rattles her box,
always touches my heart, there is such an air of forlornness and sweetness about her. As I
was returning, last night, from a mass at San Giovanni in Laterano, an old man glared at us
through great green goggles,--to which Jealousy's would have yielded in size and color,--and
shook his box for a baiocco. "And where does this money go?" I asked. "To say masses for the
souls of those who die over opposite," said he, pointing to the Hospital of San Giovanni, through
the open doors of which we could see the patients lying in their beds.

Nor are these the only friends of the box. Often in walking the streets one is suddenly shaken
in your ear, and, turning round, you are startled to see a figure entirely clothed in white
from head to foot, a rope round his waist, and a white capuccio drawn over his head and face,
and showing, through two round holes, a pair of sharp black eyes behind them. He says nothing,
but shakes his box at you, often threateningly, and always with an air of mystery. This is
a penitent Saccone; and as this confraternita is composed solely of noblemen, he may be one
of the first princes or cardinals in Rome, performing penance in expiation of his sins; or,
for all you can see, it may be one of your intimate friends. The money thus collected goes
to various charities. They always go in couples,--one taking one side of the street, the other
the opposite,--never losing sight of each other, and never speaking. Clothed thus in secresy,
these Sacconi can test the generosity of any one they please with complete impunity, and they
often amuse themselves with startling foreigners. Many a group of English girls, convoyed by
their mother, and staring into some mosaic or cameo shop, is scared into a scream by the sudden
jingle of the box, and the apparition of the spectre in white who shakes it. And many a simple
old lady retains to the end of her life a confused impression, derived therefrom, of Inquisitions,
stilettos, tortures, and banditti, from which it is vain to attempt to dispossess her mind.
The stout old gentleman, with a bald forehead and an irascibly rosy face, takes it often in
another way,--confounds the fellows for their impertinence, has serious notions, first, of
knocking them down on the spot, and then of calling the police, but finally concludes to take
no notice of them, as they are nothing but Eye-talians, who cannot be expected to know how
to behave themselves in a rational manner. Sometimes a santa elemosina is demanded after the
oddest fashion. It was only yesterday that I met one of the confraternita, dressed in a shabby
red suit, coming up the street, with the invariable oblong tin begging-box in his hand,--a
picture of Christ on one side, and of the Madonna on the other. He went straight to a door,
opening into a large, dark room, where there was a full cistern of running water, at which
several poor women were washing clothes, and singing and chatting as they worked. My red acquaintance
suddenly opens the door, letting in a stream of light upon this Rembrandtish interior, and,
lifting his box with the most wheedling of smiles, he says, with a rising inflection of voice,
as if asking a question,--"Prezioso sangue di Gesu Christo?"--( Precious blood of Jesus Christ?)

The last, but by no means the meanest, of the tribe of pensioners whom I shall mention, is
my old friend, "Beefsteak,"--now, alas! gone to the shades of his fathers. He was a good dog,--a
mongrel, a Pole by birth,--who accompanied his master on a visit to Rome, where he became so
enamored of the place that he could not be persuaded to return to his native home. Bravely
he cast himself on the world, determined to live, like many of his two-legged countrymen, upon
his wits. He was a dog of genius, and his confidence in the world was rewarded by its appreciation.
He had a sympathy for the arts. The crowd of artists who daily and nightly flocked to the Lepre
and the Caffe Greco attracted his notice. He introduced himself to them, and visited them at
their studios and rooms. A friendship was struck between them and him, and he became their
constant visitor and their most attached ally. Every day, at the hour of lunch, or at the more
serious hour of dinner, he lounged into the Lepre, seated himself in a chair, and awaited his
friends, confident of his reception. His presence was always hailed with a welcome, and to
every new comer he was formally presented. His bearing became, at last, not only assured, but
patronizing. He received the gift of a chicken-bone or a delicate titbit as if he conferred
a favor. He became an epicure, a gourmet. He did not eat much; he ate well. With what a calm
superiority and gentle contempt he declined the refuse bits a stranger offered from his plate!
His glance, and upturned nose, and quiet refusal, seemed to say,--"Ignoramus! know you not
I am Beefsteak?" His dinner finished, he descended gravely, and proceeded to the Caffe Greco,
there to listen to the discussions of the artists, and to partake of a little coffee and sugar,
of which he was very fond. At night, he accompanied some one or other of his friends to his
room, and slept upon the rug. He knew his friends, and valued them; but perhaps his most remarkable
quality was his impartiality. He dispensed his favors with an even hand. He had few favorites,
and called no man master. He never outstayed his welcome "and told the jest without the smile,"
never remaining with one person for more than two or three days at most. A calmer character,
a more balanced judgment, a better temper, a more admirable self-respect,--in a word, a profounder
sense of what belongs to a gentleman, was never known in any dog. But Beefsteak is now no more.
Just after the agitations of the Revolution of '48, with which he had little sympathy,--he
was a conservative by disposition,--he disappeared. He had always been accustomed to make a
villegratura at L'Arriccia during a portion of the summer months, returning only now and then
to look after his affairs in Rome. On such visits he would often arrive towards midnight, and
rap at the door of a friend to claim his hospitality, barking a most intelligible answer to
the universal Roman inquiry of "Chi e?" "One morn we missed him at the accustomed" place, and
thenceforth he was never seen. Whether a sudden homesickness for his native land overcame him,
or a fatal accident befell him, is not known. Peace to his manes! There "rests his head upon
the lap of earth" no better dog.

In the Roman studio of one of his friends and admirers, Mr. Mason, I had the pleasure, a few
days since, to see, among several admirable and very spirited pictures of Campagna life and
incidents, a very striking portrait of Beefsteak. He was sitting in a straw-bottomed chair,
as we have so often seen him in the Lepre, calm, dignified in his deportment, and somewhat
obese. The full brain, the narrow, fastidious nose, the sagacious eye, were so perfectly given,
that I seemed to feel the actual presence of my old friend. So admirable a portrait of so distinguished
a person should not be lost to the world. It should be engraved, or at least photographed.

THE ZOUAVES.

The decree of October 1, 1830, approved by a royal ordinance, March 21, 1831, created two battalions
of Zouaves. To perceive the necessity for this body of troops, to understand the nature of
the service required of them, and to obtain a just notion of their important position in African
affairs, it will be necessary to glance, for a moment, at the previous history of Algeria under
the Deys, and especially at the history of that Turkish militia which they were to replace,--a
body of irresponsible tyrants, which, since 1516, had exercised the greatest power in Africa,
and had rendered their name hated and feared by the most distant tribes.

