The lake has frozen late this year, and there are places in it where the ice is not yet firm.
Little snow has fallen since it froze--about three inches at the deepest, driven by winds and
wrinkled like the ribbed sea-sand. Here and there the ice-floor is quite black and clear, reflecting
stars, and dark as heaven's own depths. Elsewhere it is of a suspicious whiteness, blurred
in surface, with jagged cracks and chasms, treacherously mended by the hand of frost. Moving
slowly, the snow cries beneath our feet, and the big crystals tinkle. These are shaped like
fern-fronds, growing fan-wise from a point, and set at various angles, so that the moonlight
takes them with capricious touch. They flash, and are quenched, and flash again, light darting
to light along the level surface, while the sailing planets and the stars look down complacent
at this mimicry of heaven. Everything above, around, beneath, is very beautiful--the slumbrous
woods, the snowy fells, and the far distance painted in faint blue upon the tender background
of the sky. Everything is placid and beautiful; and yet the place is terrible. For, as we walk,
the lake groans, with throttled sobs, and sudden cracklings of its joints, and sighs that shiver,
undulating from afar, and pass beneath our feet, and die away in distance when they reach the
shore. And now and then an upper crust of ice gives way; and will the gulfs then drag us down?
We are in the very centre of the lake. There is no use in thinking or in taking heed. Enjoy
the moment, then, and march. Enjoy the contrast between this circumambient serenity and sweetness,
and the dreadful sense of insecurity beneath. Is not, indeed, our whole life of this nature?
A passage over perilous deeps, roofed by infinity and sempiternal things, surrounded too with
evanescent forms, that like these crystals, trodden underfoot, or melted by the Föhn-wind into
dew, flash, in some lucky moment, with a light that mimics stars! But to allegorise and sermonise
is out of place here. It is but the expedient of those who cannot etch sensation by the burin
of their art of words.

VIII

It is ten o'clock upon Sylvester Abend, or New Year's Eve. Herr Buol sits with his wife at
the head of his long table. His family and serving folk are round him. There is his mother,
with little Ursula, his child, upon her knee. The old lady is the mother of four comely daughters
and nine stalwart sons, the eldest of whom is now a grizzled man. Besides our host, four of
the brothers are here to-night; the handsome melancholy Georg, who is so gentle in his speech;
Simeon, with his diplomatic face; Florian, the student of medicine; and my friend, colossal-breasted
Christian. Palmy came a little later, worried with many cares, but happy to his heart's core.
No optimist was ever more convinced of his philosophy than Palmy. After them, below the salt,
were ranged the knechts and porters, the marmiton from the kitchen, and innumerable maids.
The board was tesselated with plates of birnen-brod and eier-brod, küchli and cheese and butter;
and Georg stirred grampampuli in a mighty metal bowl. For the uninitiated, it may be needful
to explain these Davos delicacies. Birnen-brod is what the Scotch would call a 'bun,' or massive
cake, composed of sliced pears, almonds, spices, and a little flour. Eier-brod is a saffron-coloured
sweet bread, made with eggs; and küchli is a kind of pastry, crisp and flimsy, fashioned into
various devices of cross, star, and scroll. Grampampuli is simply brandy burnt with sugar,
the most unsophisticated punch I ever drank from tumblers. The frugal people of Davos, who
live on bread and cheese and dried meat all the year, indulge themselves but once with these
unwonted dainties in the winter.

The occasion was cheerful, and yet a little solemn. The scene was feudal. For these Buols are
the scions of a warrior race:

  A race illustrious for heroic deeds;
  Humbled, but not degraded.

During the six centuries through which they have lived nobles in Davos, they have sent forth
scores of fighting men to foreign lands, ambassadors to France and Venice and the Milanese,
governors to Chiavenna and Bregaglia and the much-contested Valtelline. Members of their house
are Counts of Buol-Schauenstein in Austria, Freiherrs of Muhlingen and Berenberg in the now
German Empire. They keep the patent of nobility conferred on them by Henri IV. Their ancient
coat--parted per pale azure and argent, with a dame of the fourteenth century bearing in her
hand a rose, all counterchanged--is carved in wood and monumental marble on the churches and
old houses hereabouts. And from immemorial antiquity the Buol of Davos has sat thus on Sylvester
Abend with family and folk around him, summoned from alp and snowy field to drink grampampuli
and break the birnen-brod.

These rites performed, the men and maids began to sing--brown arms lounging on the table, and
red hands folded in white aprons--serious at first in hymn-like cadences, then breaking into
wilder measures with a jodel at the close. There is a measured solemnity in the performance,
which strikes the stranger as somewhat comic. But the singing was good; the voices strong and
clear in tone, no hesitation and no shirking of the melody. It was clear that the singers enjoyed
the music for its own sake, with half-shut eyes, as they take dancing, solidly, with deep-drawn
breath, sustained and indefatigable. But eleven struck; and the two Christians, my old friend,
and Palmy, said we should be late for church. They had promised to take me with them to see
bell-ringing in the tower. All the young men of the village meet, and draw lots in the Stube
of the Rathhaus. One party tolls the old year out; the other rings the new year in. He who
comes last is sconced three litres of Veltliner for the company. This jovial fine was ours
to pay to-night.

When we came into the air, we found a bitter frost; the whole sky clouded over; a north wind
whirling snow from alp and forest through the murky gloom. The benches and broad walnut tables
of the Bathhaus were crowded with men, in shaggy homespun of brown and grey frieze. Its low
wooden roof and walls enclosed an atmosphere of smoke, denser than the external snow-drift.
But our welcome was hearty, and we found a score of friends. Titanic Fopp, whose limbs are
Michelangelesque in length; spectacled Morosani; the little tailor Kramer, with a French horn
on his knees; the puckered forehead of the Baumeister; the Troll-shaped postman; peasants and
woodmen, known on far excursions upon pass and upland valley. Not one but carried on his face
the memory of winter strife with avalanche and snow-drift, of horses struggling through Fluela
whirlwinds, and wine-casks tugged across Bernina, and haystacks guided down precipitous gullies
at thundering speed 'twixt pine and pine, and larches felled in distant glens beside the frozen
watercourses. Here we were, all met together for one hour from our several homes and occupations,
to welcome in the year with clinked glasses and cries of Prosit Neujahr!

The tolling bells above us stopped. Our turn had come. Out into the snowy air we tumbled, beneath
the row of wolves' heads that adorn the pent-house roof. A few steps brought us to the still
God's acre, where the snow lay deep and cold upon high-mounded graves of many generations.
We crossed it silently, bent our heads to the low Gothic arch, and stood within the tower.
It was thick darkness there. But far above, the bells began again to clash and jangle confusedly,
with volleys of demonic joy. Successive flights of ladders, each ending in a giddy platform
hung across the gloom, climb to the height of some hundred and fifty feet; and all their rungs
were crusted with frozen snow, deposited by trampling boots. For up and down these stairs,
ascending and descending, moved other than angels--the friezejacketed Bürschen, Grisons bears,
rejoicing in their exercise, exhilarated with the tingling noise of beaten metal. We reached
the first room safely, guided by firm-footed Christian, whose one candle just defined the rough
walls and the slippery steps. There we found a band of boys, pulling ropes that set the bells
in motion. But our destination was not reached. One more aërial ladder, perpendicular in darkness,
brought us swiftly to the home of sound. It is a small square chamber, where the bells are
hung, filled with the interlacement of enormous beams, and pierced to north and south by open
windows, from whose parapets I saw the village and the valley spread beneath. The fierce wind
hurried through it, charged with snow, and its narrow space was thronged with men. Men on the
platform, men on the window-sills, men grappling the bells with iron arms, men brushing by
to reach the stairs, crossing, recrossing, shouldering their mates, drinking red wine from
gigantic beakers, exploding crackers, firing squibs, shouting and yelling in corybantic chorus.
They yelled and shouted, one could see it by their open mouths and glittering eyes; but not
a sound from human lungs could reach our ears. The overwhelming incessant thunder of the bells
drowned all. It thrilled the tympanum, ran through the marrow of the spine, vibrated in the
inmost entrails. Yet the brain was only steadied and excited by this sea of brazen noise. After
a few moments I knew the place and felt at home in it. Then I enjoyed a spectacle which sculptors
might have envied. For they ring the bells in Davos after this fashion:--The lads below set
them going with ropes. The men above climb in pairs on ladders to the beams from which they
are suspended. Two mighty pine-trees, roughly squared and built into the walls, extend from
side to side across the belfry. Another from which the bells hang, connects these massive trunks
at right angles. Just where the central beam is wedged into the two parallel supports, the
ladders reach them from each side of the belfry, so that, bending from the higher rung of the
ladder, and leaning over, stayed upon the lateral beam, each pair of men can keep one bell
in movement with their hands. Each comrade plants one leg upon the ladder, and sets the other
knee firmly athwart the horizontal pine. Then round each other's waist they twine left arm
and right. The two have thus become one man. Right arm and left are free to grasp the bell's
horns, sprouting at its crest beneath the beam. With a grave rhythmic motion, bending sideward
in a close embrace, swaying and returning to their centre from the well-knit loins, they drive
the force of each strong muscle into the vexed bell. The impact is earnest at first, but soon
it becomes frantic. The men take something from each other of exalted enthusiasm. This efflux
of their combined energies inspires them and exasperates the mighty resonance of metal which
they rule. They are lost in a trance of what approximates to dervish passion--so thrilling
is the surge of sound, so potent are the rhythms they obey. Men come and tug them by the heels.
One grasps the starting thews upon their calves. Another is impatient for their place. But
they strain still, locked together, and forgetful of the world. At length they have enough:
then slowly, clingingly unclasp, turn round with gazing eyes, and are resumed, sedately, into
the diurnal round of common life. Another pair is in their room upon the beam.

The Englishman who saw these things stood looking up, enveloped in his ulster with the grey
cowl thrust upon his forehead, like a monk. One candle cast a grotesque shadow of him on the
plastered wall. And when his chance came, though he was but a weakling, he too climbed and
for some moments hugged the beam, and felt the madness of the swinging bell. Descending, he
wondered long and strangely whether he ascribed too much of feeling to the men he watched.
But no, that was impossible. There are emotions deeply seated in the joy of exercise, when
the body is brought into play, and masses move in concert, of which the subject is but half
conscious. Music and dance, and the delirium of battle or the chase, act thus upon spontaneous
natures. The mystery of rhythm and associated energy and blood tingling in sympathy is here.
It lies at the root of man's most tyrannous instinctive impulses.

It was past one when we reached home, and now a meditative man might well have gone to bed.
But no one thinks of sleeping on Sylvester Abend. So there followed bowls of punch in one friend's
room, where English, French, and Germans blent together in convivial Babel; and flasks of old
Montagner in another. Palmy, at this period, wore an archdeacon's hat, and smoked a churchwarden's
pipe; and neither were his own, nor did he derive anything ecclesiastical or Anglican from
the association. Late in the morning we must sally forth, they said, and roam the town. For
it is the custom here on New Year's night to greet acquaintances, and ask for hospitality,
and no one may deny these self-invited guests. We turned out again into the grey snow-swept
gloom, a curious Comus--not at all like Greeks, for we had neither torches in our hands nor
rose-wreaths to suspend upon a lady's door-posts. And yet I could not refrain, at this supreme
moment of jollity, in the zero temperature, amid my Grisons friends, from humming to myself
verses from the Greek Anthology:--

  The die is cast! Nay, light the torch!
  I'll take the road! Up, courage, ho!
  Why linger pondering in the porch?
  Upon Love's revel we will go!

  Shake off those fumes of wine! Hang care
  And caution! What has Love to do
  With prudence? Let the torches flare!
  Quick, drown the doubts that hampered you!

  Cast weary wisdom to the wind!
  One thing, but one alone, I know:
  Love bent e'en Jove and made him blind
  Upon Love's revel we will go!

And then again:--

  I've drunk sheer madness! Not with wine,
  But old fantastic tales, I'll arm
  My heart in heedlessness divine,
  And dare the road, nor dream of harm!

  I'll join Love's rout! Let thunder break,
  Let lightning blast me by the way!
  Invulnerable Love shall shake
  His ægis o'er my head to-day.

This last epigram was not inappropriate to an invalid about to begin the fifth act in a roystering
night's adventure. And still once more:--

  Cold blows the winter wind; 'tis Love,
  Whose sweet eyes swim with honeyed tears,
  That bears me to thy doors, my love,
  Tossed by the storm of hopes and fears.

  Cold blows the blast of aching Love;
  But be thou for my wandering sail,
  Adrift upon these waves of love,
  Safe harbour from the whistling gale!

However, upon this occasion, though we had winter-wind enough, and cold enough, there was not
much love in the business. My arm was firmly clenched in Christian Buol's, and Christian Palmy
came behind, trolling out songs in Italian dialect, with still recurring canaille choruses,
of which the facile rhymes seemed mostly made on a prolonged amu-u-u-r. It is noticeable that
Italian ditties are specially designed for fellows shouting in the streets at night. They seem
in keeping there, and nowhere else that I could ever see. And these Davosers took to them naturally
when the time for Comus came. It was between four and five in the morning, and nearly all the
houses in the place were dark. The tall church-tower and spire loomed up above us in grey twilight.
The tireless wind still swept thin snow from fell and forest. But the frenzied bells had sunk
into their twelvemonth's slumber, which shall be broken only by decorous tollings at less festive
times. I wondered whether they were tingling still with the heart-throbs and with the pressure
of those many arms? Was their old age warmed, as mine was, with that gust of life--the young
men who had clung to them like bees to lily-bells, and shaken all their locked-up tone and
shrillness into the wild winter air? Alas! how many generations of the young have handled them;
and they are still there, frozen in their belfry; and the young grow middle-aged, and old,
and die at last; and the bells they grappled in their lust of manhood toll them to their graves,
on which the tireless wind will, winter after winter, sprinkle snow from alps and forests which
they knew.

'There is a light,' cried Christian, 'up in Anna's window!' 'A light! a light!' the Comus shouted.
But how to get at the window, which is pretty high above the ground, and out of reach of the
most ardent revellers? We search a neighbouring shed, extract a stable-ladder, and in two seconds
Palmy has climbed to the topmost rung, while Christian and Georg hold it firm upon the snow
beneath. Then begins a passage from some comic opera of Mozart's or Cimarosa's--an escapade
familiar to Spanish or Italian students, which recalls the stage. It is an episode from 'Don
Giovanni,' translated to this dark-etched scene of snowy hills, and Gothic tower, and mullioned
windows deep embayed beneath their eaves and icicles. Deh vieni alla finestra! sings Palmy-Leporello;
the chorus answers: Deh vieni! Perchè non vieni ancora? pleads Leporello; the chorus shouts:
Perchè? Mio amu-u-u-r, sighs Leporello; and Echo cries, amu-u-u-r! All the wooing, be it noticed,
is conducted in Italian. But the actors murmur to each other in Davoser Deutsch, 'She won't
come, Palmy! It is far too late; she is gone to bed. Come down; you'll wake the village with
your caterwauling!' But Leporello waves his broad archdeacon's hat, and resumes a flood of
flexible Bregaglian. He has a shrewd suspicion that the girl is peeping from behind the window
curtain; and tells us, bending down from the ladder, in a hoarse stage-whisper, that we must
have patience; 'these girls are kittle cattle, who take long to draw: but if your lungs last
out, they're sure to show.' And Leporello is right. Faint heart ne'er won fair lady. From the
summit of his ladder, by his eloquent Italian tongue, he brings the shy bird down at last.
We hear the unbarring of the house door, and a comely maiden, in her Sunday dress, welcomes
us politely to her ground-floor sitting-room. The Comus enters, in grave order, with set speeches,
handshakes, and inevitable Prosits! It is a large low chamber, with a huge stone stove, wide
benches fixed along the walls, and a great oval table. We sit how and where we can. Red wine
is produced, and eier-brod and küchli. Fräulein Anna serves us sedately, holding her own with
decent self-respect against the inrush of the revellers. She is quite alone; but are not her
father and mother in bed above, and within earshot? Besides, the Comus, even at this abnormal
hour and after an abnormal night, is well conducted. Things seem slipping into a decorous wine-party,
when Leporello readjusts the broad-brimmed hat upon his head, and very cleverly acts a little
love-scene for our benefit. Fräulein Anna takes this as a delicate compliment, and the thing
is so prettily done in truth, that not the sternest taste could be offended. Meanwhile another
party of night-wanderers, attracted by our mirth, break in. More Prosits and clinked glasses
follow; and with a fair good-morning to our hostess, we retire.

It is too late to think of bed. 'The quincunx of heaven,' as Sir Thomas Browne phrased it on
a dissimilar occasion, 'runs low.... The huntsmen are up in America; and not in America only,
for the huntsmen, if there are any this night in Graubünden, have long been out upon the snow,
and the stable-lads are dragging the sledges from their sheds to carry down the mails to Landquart.
We meet the porters from the various hotels, bringing letter-bags and luggage to the post.
It is time to turn in and take a cup of black coffee against the rising sun.

IX

Some nights, even in Davos, are spent, even by an invalid, in bed. A leaflet, therefore, of
'Sleep-chasings' may not inappropriately be flung, as envoy to so many wanderings on foot and
sledge upon the winter snows.

The first is a confused medley of things familiar and things strange. I have been dreaming
of far-away old German towns, with gabled houses deep in snow; dreaming of châlets in forgotten
Alpine glens, where wood-cutters come plunging into sleepy light from gloom, and sinking down
beside the stove to shake the drift from their rough shoulders; dreaming of vast veils of icicles
upon the gaunt black rocks in places where no foot of man will pass, and where the snow is
weaving eyebrows over the ledges of grey whirlwind-beaten precipices; dreaming of Venice, forlorn
beneath the windy drip of rain, the gas lamps flickering on the swimming piazzetta, the barche
idle, the gondolier wrapped in his thread-bare cloak, alone; dreaming of Apennines, with world-old
cities, brown, above the brown sea of dead chestnut boughs; dreaming of stormy tides, and watchers
aloft in lighthouses when day is finished; dreaming of dead men and women and dead children
in the earth, far down beneath the snow-drifts, six feet deep. And then I lift my face, awaking,
from my pillow; the pallid moon is on the valley, and the room is filled with spectral light.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. This is a hospice in an unfrequented pass, between sad peaks,
beside a little black lake, overdrifted with soft snow. I pass into the house-room, gliding
silently. An old man and an old woman are nodding, bowed in deepest slumber, by the stove.
A young man plays the zither on a table. He lifts his head, still modulating with his fingers
on the strings. He looks right through me with wide anxious eyes. He does not see me, but sees
Italy, I know, and some one wandering on a sandy shore.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. This is S. Stephen's Church in Wien. Inside, the lamps are
burning dimly in the choir. There is fog in the aisles; but through the sleepy air and over
the red candles flies a wild soprano's voice, a boy's soul in its singing sent to heaven.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. From the mufflers in which his father, the mountebank, has
wrapped the child, to carry him across the heath, a little tumbling-boy emerges in soiled tights.
He is half asleep. His father scrapes the fiddle. The boy shortens his red belt, kisses his
fingers to us, and ties himself into a knot among the glasses on the table.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. I am on the parapet of a huge circular tower, hollow like
a well, and pierced with windows at irregular intervals. The parapet is broad, and slabbed
with red Verona marble. Around me are athletic men, all naked, in the strangest attitudes of
studied rest, down-gazing, as I do, into the depths below. There comes a confused murmur of
voices, and the tower is threaded and rethreaded with great cables. Up these there climb to
us a crowd of young men, clinging to the ropes and flinging their bodies sideways on aërial
trapezes. My heart trembles with keen joy and terror. For nowhere else could plastic forms
be seen more beautiful, and nowhere else is peril more apparent. Leaning my chin upon the utmost
verge, I wait. I watch one youth, who smiles and soars to me; and when his face is almost touching
mine, he speaks, but what he says I know not.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. The whole world rocks to its foundations. The mountain summits
that I know are shaken. They bow their bristling crests. They are falling, falling on us, and
the earth is riven. I wake in terror, shouting: INSOLITIS TREMUERUNT MOTIBUS ALPES! An earthquake,
slight but real, has stirred the ever-wakeful Vesta of the brain to this Virgilian quotation.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. Once more at night I sledge alone upon the Klosters road.
It is the point where the woods close over it and moonlight may not pierce the boughs. There
come shrill cries of many voices from behind, and rushings that pass by and vanish. Then on
their sledges I behold the phantoms of the dead who died in Davos, longing for their homes;
and each flies past me, shrieking in the still cold air; and phosphorescent like long meteors,
the pageant turns the windings of the road below and disappears.

I sleep, and change my dreaming. This is the top of some high mountain, where the crags are
cruelly tortured and cast in enormous splinters on the ledges of cliffs grey with old-world
ice. A ravine, opening at my feet, plunges down immeasurably to a dim and distant sea. Above
me soars a precipice embossed with a gigantic ice-bound shape. As I gaze thereon, I find the
lineaments and limbs of a Titanic man chained and nailed to the rock. His beard has grown for
centuries, and flowed this way and that, adown his breast and over to the stone on either side;
and the whole of him is covered with a greenish ice, ancient beyond the memory of man. 'This
is Prometheus,' I whisper to myself, 'and I am alone on Caucasus.'

       *       *       *       *       *

BACCHUS IN GRAUBÜNDEN

I

Some years' residence in the Canton of the Grisons made me familiar with all sorts of Valtelline
wine; with masculine but rough Inferno, generous Forzato, delicate Sassella, harsher Montagner,
the raspberry flavour of Grumello, the sharp invigorating twang of Villa. The colour, ranging
from garnet to almandine or ruby, told me the age and quality of wine; and I could judge from
the crust it forms upon the bottle, whether it had been left long enough in wood to ripen.
I had furthermore arrived at the conclusion that the best Valtelline can only be tasted in
cellars of the Engadine or Davos, where this vintage matures slowly in the mountain air, and
takes a flavour unknown at lower levels. In a word, it had amused my leisure to make or think
myself a connoisseur. My literary taste was tickled by the praise bestowed in the Augustan
age on Rhætic grapes by Virgil:

  Et quo te carmine dicam,
  Rhætica? nec cellis ideo contende Falernis.

I piqued myself on thinking that could the poet but have drank one bottle at Samaden--where
Stilicho, by the way, in his famous recruiting expedition may perhaps have drank it--he would
have been less chary in his panegyric. For the point of inferiority on which he seems to insist,
namely, that Valtelline wine does not keep well in cellar, is only proper to this vintage in
Italian climate. Such meditations led my fancy on the path of history. Is there truth, then,
in the dim tradition that this mountain land was colonised by Etruscans? Is Ras the root of
Rhætia? The Etruscans were accomplished wine-growers, we know. It was their Montepulciano which
drew the Gauls to Rome, if Livy can be trusted. Perhaps they first planted the vine in Valtelline.
Perhaps its superior culture in that district may be due to ancient use surviving in a secluded
Alpine valley. One thing is certain, that the peasants of Sondrio and Tirano understand viticulture
better than the Italians of Lombardy.

Then my thoughts ran on to the period of modern history, when the Grisons seized the Valtelline
in lieu of war-pay from the Dukes of Milan. For some three centuries they held it as a subject
province. From the Rathhaus at Davos or Chur they sent their nobles--Von Salis and Buol, Planta
and Sprecher von Bernegg--across the hills as governors or podestàs to Poschiavo, Sondrio,
Tirano, and Morbegno. In those old days the Valtelline wines came duly every winter over snow-deep
passes to fill the cellars of the Signori Grigioni. That quaint traveller Tom Coryat, in his
so-called 'Crudities,' notes the custom early in the seventeenth century. And as that custom
then obtained, it still subsists with little alteration. The wine-carriers--Weinführer, as
they are called--first scaled the Bernina pass, halting then as now, perhaps at Poschiavo and
Pontresina. Afterwards, in order to reach Davos, the pass of the Scaletta rose before them--a
wilderness of untracked snow-drifts. The country-folk still point to narrow, light hand-sledges,
on which the casks were charged before the last pitch of the pass. Some wine came, no doubt,
on pack-saddles. A meadow in front of the Dischma-Thal, where the pass ends, still bears the
name of the Ross-Weid, or horse-pasture. It was here that the beasts of burden used for this
wine-service, rested after their long labours. In favourable weather the whole journey from
Tirano would have occupied at least four days, with scanty halts at night.

The Valtelline slipped from the hands of the Grisons early in this century. It is rumoured
that one of the Von Salis family negotiated matters with Napoleon more for his private benefit
than for the interests of the state. However this may have been, when the Graubünden became
a Swiss Canton, after four centuries of sovereign independence, the whole Valtelline passed
to Austria, and so eventually to Italy. According to modern and just notions of nationality,
this was right. In their period of power, the Grisons masters had treated their Italian dependencies
with harshness. The Valtelline is an Italian valley, connected with the rest of the peninsula
by ties of race and language. It is, moreover, geographically linked to Italy by the great
stream of the Adda, which takes its rise upon the Stelvio, and after passing through the Lake
of Como, swells the volume of the Po.

But, though politically severed from the Valtelline, the Engadiners and Davosers have not dropped
their old habit of importing its best produce. What they formerly levied as masters, they now
acquire by purchase. The Italian revenue derives a large profit from the frontier dues paid
at the gate between Tirano and Poschiavo on the Bernina road. Much of the same wine enters
Switzerland by another route, travelling from Sondrio to Chiavenna and across the Splügen.
But until quite recently, the wine itself could scarcely be found outside the Canton. It was
indeed quoted upon Lombard wine-lists. Yet no one drank it; and when I tasted it at Milan,
I found it quite unrecognisable. The fact seems to be that the Graubündeners alone know how
to deal with it; and, as I have hinted, the wine requires a mountain climate for its full development.

II

The district where the wine of Valtellina is grown extends, roughly speaking, from Tirano to
Morbegno, a distance of some fifty-four miles. The best sorts come from the middle of this
region. High up in the valley, soil and climate are alike less favourable. Low down a coarser,
earthier quality springs from fat land where the valley broadens. The northern hillsides to
a very considerable height above the river are covered with vineyards. The southern slopes
on the left bank of the Adda, lying more in shade, yield but little. Inferno, Grumello, and
Perla di Sassella are the names of famous vineyards. Sassella is the general name for a large
tract. Buying an Inferno, Grumello, or Perla di Sassella wine, it would be absurd to suppose
that one obtained it precisely from the eponymous estate. But as each of these vineyards yields
a marked quality of wine, which is taken as standard-giving, the produce of the whole district
may be broadly classified as approaching more or less nearly to one of these accepted types.
The Inferno, Grumello, and Perla di Sassella of commerce are therefore three sorts of good
Valtelline, ticketed with famous names to indicate certain differences of quality. Montagner,
as the name implies, is a somewhat lighter wine, grown higher up in the hill-vineyards. And
of this class there are many species, some approximating to Sassella in delicacy of flavour,
others approaching the tart lightness of the Villa vintage. This last takes its title from
a village in the neighbourhood of Tirano, where a table-wine is chiefly grown.

Forzato is the strongest, dearest, longest-lived of this whole family of wines. It is manufactured
chiefly at Tirano; and, as will be understood from its name, does not profess to belong to
any one of the famous localities. Forzato or Sforzato, forced or enforced, is in fact a wine
which has undergone a more artificial process. In German the people call it Strohwein, which
also points to the method of its preparation. The finest grapes are selected and dried in the
sun (hence the Stroh) for a period of eight or nine weeks. When they have almost become raisins,
they are pressed. The must is heavily charged with sugar, and ferments powerfully. Wine thus
made requires several years to ripen. Sweet at first, it takes at last a very fine quality
and flavour, and is rough, almost acid, on the tongue. Its colour too turns from a deep rich
crimson to the tone of tawny port, which indeed it much resembles.

Old Forzato, which has been long in cask, and then perhaps three years in bottle, will fetch
at least six francs, or may rise to even ten francs a flask. The best Sassella rarely reaches
more than five francs. Good Montagner and Grumello can be had perhaps for four francs; and
Inferno of a special quality for six francs. Thus the average price of old Valtelline wine
may be taken as five francs a bottle. These, I should observe, are hotel prices.

Valtelline wines bought in the wood vary, of course, according to their age and year of vintage.
I have found that from 2.50 fr. to 3.50 fr. per litre is a fair price for sorts fit to bottle.
The new wine of 1881 sold in the following winter at prices varying from 1.05 fr. to 1.80 fr.
per litre.

It is customary for the Graubünden wine-merchants to buy up the whole produce of a vineyard
from the peasants at the end of the vintage. They go in person or depute their agents to inspect
the wine, make their bargains, and seal the cellars where the wine is stored. Then, when the
snow has fallen, their own horses with sleighs and trusted servants go across the passes to
bring it home. Generally they have some local man of confidence at Tirano, the starting-point
for the homeward journey, who takes the casks up to that place and sees them duly charged.
Merchants of old standing maintain relations with the same peasants, taking their wine regularly;
so that from Lorenz Gredig at Pontresina or Andreas Gredig at Davos Dörfli, from Fanconi at
Samaden, or from Giacomi at Chiavenna, special qualities of wine, the produce of certain vineyards,
are to be obtained. Up to the present time this wine trade has been conducted with simplicity
and honesty by both the dealers and the growers. One chief merit of Valtelline wine is that
it is pure. How long so desirable a state of things will survive the slow but steady development
of an export business may be questioned.

III

With so much practical and theoretical interest in the produce of the Valtelline to stimulate
my curiosity, I determined to visit the district at the season when the wine was leaving it.
It was the winter of 1881-82, a winter of unparalleled beauty in the high Alps. Day succeeded
day without a cloud. Night followed night with steady stars, gliding across clear mountain
ranges and forests of dark pines unstirred by wind. I could not hope for a more prosperous
season; and indeed I made such use of it, that between the months of January and March I crossed
six passes of the Alps in open sleighs--the Fluela Bernina, Splügen, Julier, Maloja, and Albula--with
less difficulty and discomfort in mid-winter than the traveller may often find on them in June.

At the end of January, my friend Christian and I left Davos long before the sun was up, and
ascended for four hours through the interminable snow-drifts of the Fluela in a cold grey shadow.
The sun's light seemed to elude us. It ran along the ravine through which we toiled; dipped
down to touch the topmost pines above our heads; rested in golden calm upon the Schiahorn at
our back; capriciously played here and there across the Weisshorn on our left, and made the
precipices of the Schwartzhorn glitter on our right. But athwart our path it never fell until
we reached the very summit of the pass. Then we passed quietly into the full glory of the winter
morning--a tranquil flood of sunbeams, pouring through air of crystalline purity, frozen and
motionless. White peaks and dark brown rocks soared up, cutting a sky of almost purple blueness.
A stillness that might be felt brooded over the whole world; but in that stillness there was
nothing sad, no suggestion of suspended vitality. It was the stillness rather of untroubled
health, of strength omnipotent but unexerted.

From the Hochspitz of the Fluela the track plunges at one bound into the valley of the Inn,
following a narrow cornice carved from the smooth bank of snow, and hung, without break or
barrier, a thousand feet or more above the torrent. The summer road is lost in snow-drifts.
The galleries built as a protection from avalanches, which sweep in rivers from those grim,
bare fells above, are blocked with snow. Their useless arches yawn, as we glide over or outside
them, by paths which instinct in our horse and driver traces. As a fly may creep along a house-roof,
slanting downwards we descend. One whisk from the swinged tail of an avalanche would hurl us,
like a fly, into the ruin of the gaping gorge. But this season little snow has fallen on the
higher hills; and what still lies there, is hard frozen. Therefore we have no fear, as we whirl
fast and faster from the snow-fields into the black forests of gnarled cembras and wind-wearied
pines. Then Süss is reached, where the Inn hurries its shallow waters clogged with ice-floes
through a sleepy hamlet. The stream is pure and green; for the fountains of the glaciers are
locked by winter frosts; and only clear rills from perennial sources swell its tide. At Süss
we lost the sun, and toiled in garish gloom and silence, nipped by the ever-deepening cold
of evening, upwards for four hours to Samaden.

The next day was spent in visiting the winter colony at San Moritz, where the Kulm Hotel, tenanted
by some twenty guests, presented in its vastness the appearance of a country-house. One of
the prettiest spots in the world is the ice-rink, fashioned by the skill of Herr Caspar Badrutt
on a high raised terrace, commanding the valley of the Inn and the ponderous bulwarks of Bernina.
The silhouettes of skaters, defined against that landscape of pure white, passed to and fro
beneath a cloudless sky. Ladies sat and worked or read on seats upon the ice. Not a breath
of wind was astir, and warm beneficent sunlight flooded the immeasurable air. Only, as the
day declined, some iridescent films overspread the west; and just above Maloja the apparition
of a mock sun--a well-defined circle of opaline light, broken at regular intervals by four
globes--seemed to portend a change of weather. This forecast fortunately proved delusive. We
drove back to Samaden across the silent snow, enjoying those delicate tints of rose and violet
and saffron which shed enchantment for one hour over the white monotony of Alpine winter.

At half-past eight next morning, the sun was rising from behind Pitz Languard, as we crossed
the Inn and drove through Pontresina in the glorious light, with all its huge hotels quite
empty and none but a few country-folk abroad. Those who only know the Engadine in summer have
little conception of its beauty. Winter softens the hard details of bare rock, and rounds the
melancholy grassless mountain flanks, suspending icicles to every ledge and spangling the curved
surfaces of snow with crystals. The landscape gains in purity, and, what sounds unbelievable,
in tenderness. Nor does it lose in grandeur. Looking up the valley of the Morteratsch that
morning, the glaciers were distinguishable in hues of green and sapphire through their veil
of snow; and the highest peaks soared in a transparency of amethystine light beneath a blue
sky traced with filaments of windy cloud. Some storm must have disturbed the atmosphere in
Italy, for fan-shaped mists frothed out around the sun, and curled themselves above the mountains
in fine feathery wreaths, melting imperceptibly into air, until, when we had risen above the
cembras, the sky was one deep solid blue.

All that upland wilderness is lovelier now than in the summer; and on the morning of which
I write, the air itself was far more summery than I have ever known it in the Engadine in August.
We could scarcely bear to place our hands upon the woodwork of the sleigh because of the fierce
sun's heat. And yet the atmosphere was crystalline with windless frost. As though to increase
the strangeness of these contrasts, the pavement of beaten snow was stained with red drops
spilt from wine-casks which pass over it.

The chief feature of the Bernina--what makes it a dreary pass enough in summer, but infinitely
beautiful in winter--is its breadth; illimitable undulations of snow-drifts; immensity of open
sky; unbroken lines of white, descending in smooth curves from glittering ice-peaks.

A glacier hangs in air above the frozen lakes, with all its green-blue ice-cliffs glistening
in intensest light. Pitz Palu shoots aloft like sculptured marble, delicately veined with soft
aërial shadows of translucent blue. At the summit of the pass all Italy seems to burst upon
the eyes in those steep serried ranges, with their craggy crests, violet-hued in noonday sunshine,
as though a bloom of plum or grape had been shed over them, enamelling their jagged precipices.

The top of the Bernina is not always thus in winter. It has a bad reputation for the fury of
invading storms, when falling snow hurtles together with snow scooped from the drifts in eddies,
and the weltering white sea shifts at the will of whirlwinds. The Hospice then may be tenanted
for days together by weather-bound wayfarers; and a line drawn close beneath its roof shows
how two years ago the whole building was buried in one snow-shroud. This morning we lounged
about the door, while our horses rested and postillions and carters pledged one another in
cups of new Veltliner.

The road takes an awful and sudden dive downwards, quite irrespective of the carefully engineered
post-track. At this season the path is badly broken into ruts and chasms by the wine traffic.
In some places it was indubitably perilous: a narrow ledge of mere ice skirting thinly clad
hard-frozen banks of snow, which fell precipitately sideways for hundreds of sheer feet. We
did not slip over this parapet, though we were often within an inch of doing so. Had our horse
stumbled, it is not probable that I should have been writing this.

When we came to the galleries which defend the road from avalanches, we saw ahead of us a train
of over forty sledges ascending, all charged with Valtelline wine. Our postillions drew up
at the inner side of the gallery, between massive columns of the purest ice dependent from
the rough-hewn roof and walls of rock. A sort of open loggia on the farther side framed vignettes
of the Valtelline mountains in their hard cerulean shadows and keen sunlight. Between us and
the view defiled the wine-sledges; and as each went by, the men made us drink out of their
trinketti. These are oblong, hexagonal wooden kegs, holding about fourteen litres, which the
carter fills with wine before he leaves the Valtelline, to cheer him on the homeward journey.
You raise it in both hands, and when the bung has been removed, allow the liquor to flow stream-wise
down your throat. It was a most extraordinary Bacchic procession--a pomp which, though undreamed
of on the banks of the Ilissus, proclaimed the deity of Dionysos in authentic fashion. Struggling
horses, grappling at the ice-bound floor with sharp-spiked shoes; huge, hoarse drivers, some
clad in sheepskins from Italian valleys, some brown as bears in rough Graubünden homespun;
casks, dropping their spilth of red wine on the snow; greetings, embracings; patois of Bergamo,
Romansch, and German roaring around the low-browed vaults and tingling ice pillars; pourings
forth of libations of the new strong Valtelline on breasts and beards;--the whole made up a
scene of stalwart jollity and manful labour such as I have nowhere else in such wild circumstances
witnessed. Many Davosers were there, the men of Andreas Gredig, Valär, and so forth; and all
of these, on greeting Christian, forced us to drain a Schluck from their unmanageable cruses.
Then on they went, crying, creaking, struggling, straining through the corridor, which echoed
deafeningly, the gleaming crystals of those hard Italian mountains in their winter raiment
building a background of still beauty to the savage Bacchanalian riot of the team.

How little the visitors who drink Valtelline wine at S. Moritz or Davos reflect by what strange
ways it reaches them. A sledge can scarcely be laden with more than one cask of 300 litres
on the ascent; and this cask, according to the state of the road, has many times to be shifted
from wheels to runners and back again before the journey is accomplished. One carter will take
charge of two horses, and consequently of two sledges and two casks, driving them both by voice
and gesture rather than by rein. When they leave the Valtelline, the carters endeavour, as
far as possible, to take the pass in gangs, lest bad weather or an accident upon the road should
overtake them singly. At night they hardly rest three hours, and rarely think of sleeping,
but spend the time in drinking and conversation. The horses are fed and littered; but for them
too the night-halt is little better than a baiting-time. In fair weather the passage of the
mountain is not difficult, though tiring. But woe to men and beasts alike if they encounter
storms! Not a few perish in the passes; and it frequently happens that their only chance is
to unyoke the horses and leave the sledges in a snow-wreath, seeking for themselves such shelter
as may possibly be gained, frost-bitten, after hours of battling with impermeable drifts. The
wine is frozen into one solid mass of rosy ice before it reaches Pontresina. This does not
hurt the young vintage, but it is highly injurious to wine of some years' standing. The perils
of the journey are aggravated by the savage temper of the drivers. Jealousies between the natives
of rival districts spring up; and there are men alive who have fought the whole way down from
Fluela Hospice to Davos Platz with knives and stones, hammers and hatchets, wooden staves and
splintered cart-wheels, staining the snow with blood, and bringing broken pates, bruised limbs,
and senseless comrades home to their women to be tended.

Bacchus Alpinus shepherded his train away from us to northward, and we passed forth into noonday
from the gallery. It then seemed clear that both conductor and postillion were sufficiently
merry. The plunge they took us down those frozen parapets, with shriek and jauchzen and cracked
whips, was more than ever dangerous. Yet we reached La Rosa safely. This is a lovely solitary
spot, beside a rushing stream, among grey granite boulders grown with spruce and rhododendron:
a veritable rose of Sharon blooming in the desert. The wastes of the Bernina stretch above,
and round about are leaguered some of the most forbidding sharp-toothed peaks I ever saw. Onwards,
across the silent snow, we glided in immitigable sunshine, through opening valleys and pine-woods,
past the robber-huts of Pisciadella, until at evenfall we rested in the roadside inn at Poschiavo.

IV

The snow-path ended at Poschiavo; and when, as usual, we started on our journey next day at
sunrise, it was in a carriage upon wheels. Yet even here we were in full midwinter. Beyond
Le Prese the lake presented one sheet of smooth black ice, reflecting every peak and chasm
of the mountains, and showing the rocks and water-weeds in the clear green depths below. The
glittering floor stretched away for acres of untenanted expanse, with not a skater to explore
those dark mysterious coves, or strike across the slanting sunlight poured from clefts in the
impendent hills. Inshore the substance of the ice sparkled here and there with iridescence
like the plumelets of a butterfly's wing under the microscope, wherever light happened to catch
the jagged or oblique flaws that veined its solid crystal.

From the lake the road descends suddenly for a considerable distance through a narrow gorge,
following a torrent which rushes among granite boulders. Chestnut trees begin to replace the
pines. The sunnier terraces are planted with tobacco, and at a lower level vines appear at
intervals in patches. One comes at length to a great red gate across the road, which separates
Switzerland from Italy, and where the export dues on wine are paid. The Italian custom-house
is romantically perched above the torrent. Two courteous and elegant finanzieri, mere boys,
were sitting wrapped in their military cloaks and reading novels in the sun as we drove up.
Though they made some pretence of examining the luggage, they excused themselves with sweet
smiles and apologetic eyes--it was a disagreeable duty!

A short time brought us to the first village in the Valtelline, where the road bifurcates northward
to Bormio and the Stelvio pass, southward to Sondrio and Lombardy. It is a little hamlet, known
by the name of La Madonna di Tirano, having grown up round a pilgrimage church of great beauty,
with tall Lombard bell-tower, pierced with many tiers of pilastered windows, ending in a whimsical
spire, and dominating a fantastic cupola building of the earlier Renaissance. Taken altogether,
this is a charming bit of architecture, picturesquely set beneath the granite snow-peaks of
the Valtelline. The church, they say, was raised at Madonna's own command to stay the tide
of heresy descending from the Engadine; and in the year 1620, the bronze statue of S. Michael,
which still spreads wide its wings above the cupola, looked down upon the massacre of six hundred
Protestants and foreigners, commanded by the patriot Jacopo Robustelli.

From Madonna the road leads up the valley through a narrow avenue of poplar-trees to the town
of Tirano. We were now in the district where Forzato is made, and every vineyard had a name
and history. In Tirano we betook ourself to the house of an old acquaintance of the Buol family,
Bernardo da Campo, or, as the Graubündeners call him, Bernard Campbèll. We found him at dinner
with his son and grandchildren in a vast, dark, bare Italian chamber. It would be difficult
to find a more typical old Scotchman of the Lowlands than he looked, with his clean close-shaven
face, bright brown eyes, and snow-white hair escaping from a broad-brimmed hat. He might have
sat to a painter for some Covenanter's portrait, except that there was nothing dour about him,
or for an illustration to Burns's 'Cotter's Saturday Night.' The air of probity and canniness
combined with a twinkle of dry humour was completely Scotch; and when he tapped his snuff-box,
telling stories of old days, I could not refrain from asking him about his pedigree. It should
be said that there is a considerable family of Campèlls or Campbèlls in the Graubünden, who
are fabled to deduce their stock from a Scotch Protestant of Zwingli's time; and this made
it irresistible to imagine that in our friend Bernardo I had chanced upon a notable specimen
of atavism. All he knew, however, was, that his first ancestor had been a foreigner, who came
across the mountains to Tirano two centuries ago.[3]

This old gentleman is a considerable wine-dealer. He sent us with his son, Giacomo, on a long
journey underground through his cellars, where we tasted several sorts of Valtelline, especially
the new Forzato, made a few weeks since, which singularly combines sweetness with strength,
and both with a slight effervescence. It is certainly the sort of wine wherewith to tempt a
Polyphemus, and not unapt to turn a giant's head.

Leaving Tirano, and once more passing through the poplars by Madonna, we descended the valley
all along the vineyards of Villa and the vast district of Sassella. Here and there, at wayside
inns, we stopped to drink a glass of some particular vintage; and everywhere it seemed as though
god Bacchus were at home. The whole valley on the right side of the Adda is one gigantic vineyard,
climbing the hills in tiers and terraces, which justify its Italian epithet of Teatro di Bacco.
The rock is a greyish granite, assuming sullen brown and orange tints where exposed to sun
and weather. The vines are grown on stakes, not trellised over trees or carried across boulders,
as is the fashion at Chiavenna or Terlan. Yet every advantage of the mountain is adroitly used;
nooks and crannies being specially preferred, where the sun's rays are deflected from hanging
cliffs. The soil seems deep, and is of a dull yellow tone. When the vines end, brushwood takes
up the growth, which expires at last in crag and snow. Some alps and chalets, dimly traced
against the sky, are evidences that a pastoral life prevails above the vineyards. Pan there
stretches the pine-thyrsus down to vine-garlanded Dionysos.

The Adda flows majestically among willows in the midst, and the valley is nearly straight.
The prettiest spot, perhaps, is at Tresenda or S. Giacomo, where a pass from Edolo and Brescia
descends from the southern hills. But the Valtelline has no great claim to beauty of scenery.
Its chief town, Sondrio, where we supped and drank some special wine called il vino de' Signori
Grigioni, has been modernised in dull Italian fashion.

V

The hotel at Sondrio, La Maddalena, was in carnival uproar of masquers, topers, and musicians
all night through. It was as much as we could do to rouse the sleepy servants and get a cup
of coffee ere we started in the frozen dawn. 'Verfluchte Maddalena!' grumbled Christian as
he shouldered our portmanteaus and bore them in hot haste to the post. Long experience only
confirms the first impression, that, of all cold, the cold of an Italian winter is most penetrating.
As we lumbered out of Sondrio in a heavy diligence, I could have fancied myself back once again
at Radicofani or among the Ciminian hills. The frost was penetrating. Fur-coats would not keep
it out; and we longed to be once more in open sledges on Bernina rather than enclosed in that
cold coupé. Now we passed Grumello, the second largest of the renowned vine districts; and
always keeping the white mass of Monte di Disgrazia in sight, rolled at last into Morbegno.
Here the Valtelline vintage properly ends, though much of the ordinary wine is probably supplied
from the inferior produce of these fields. It was past noon when we reached Colico, and saw
the Lake of Como glittering in sunlight, dazzling cloaks of snow on all the mountains, which
look as dry and brown as dead beech-leaves at this season. Our Bacchic journey had reached
its close; and it boots not here to tell in detail how we made our way across the Splügen,
piercing its avalanches by low-arched galleries scooped from the solid snow, and careering
in our sledges down perpendicular snow-fields, which no one who has crossed that pass from
the Italian side in winter will forget. We left the refuge station at the top together with
a train of wine-sledges, and passed them in the midst of the wild descent. Looking back, I
saw two of their horses stumble in the plunge and roll headlong over. Unluckily in one of these
somersaults a man was injured. Flung ahead into the snow by the first lurch, the sledge and
wine-cask crossed him like a garden-roller. Had his bed not been of snow, he must have been
crushed to death; and as it was, he presented a woeful appearance when he afterwards arrived
at Splügen.

VI

Though not strictly connected with the subject of this paper, I shall conclude these notes
of winter wanderings in the high Alps with an episode which illustrates their curious vicissitudes.

It was late in the month of March, and nearly all the mountain roads were open for wheeled
vehicles. A carriage and four horses came to meet us at the termination of a railway journey
in Bagalz. We spent one day in visiting old houses of the Grisons aristocracy at Mayenfeld
and Zizers, rejoicing in the early sunshine, which had spread the fields with spring flowers--primroses
and oxlips, violets, anemones, and bright blue squills. At Chur we slept, and early next morning
started for our homeward drive to Davos. Bad weather had declared itself in the night. It blew
violently, and the rain soon changed to snow, frozen by a bitter north blast. Crossing the
dreary heath of Lenz was both magnificent and dreadful. By the time we reached Wiesen, all
the forests were laden with snow, the roads deep in snow-drifts, the whole scene wintrier than
it had been the winter through.

At Wiesen we should have stayed, for evening was fast setting in. But in ordinary weather it
is only a two hours drive from Wiesen to Davos. Our coachman made no objections to resuming
the journey, and our four horses had but a light load to drag. So we telegraphed for supper
to be prepared, and started between five and six.

A deep gorge has to be traversed, where the torrent cleaves its way between jaws of limestone
precipices. The road is carried along ledges and through tunnels in the rock. Avalanches, which
sweep this passage annually from the hills above, give it the name of Züge, or the Snow-Paths.
As we entered the gorge darkness fell, the horses dragged more heavily, and it soon became
evident that our Tyrolese driver was hopelessly drunk. He nearly upset us twice by taking sharp
turns in the road, banged the carriage against telegraph posts and jutting rocks, shaved the
very verge of the torrent in places where there was no parapet, and, what was worst of all,
refused to leave his box without a fight. The darkness by this time was all but total, and
a blinding snow-storm swept howling through the ravine. At length we got the carriage to a
dead-stop, and floundered out in deep wet snow toward some wooden huts where miners in old
days made their habitation. The place, by a curious, perhaps unconscious irony, is called Hoffnungsau,
or the Meadow of Hope. Indeed, it is not ill named; for many wanderers, escaping, as we did,
from the dreadful gorge of Avalanches on a stormy night, may have felt, as we now felt, their
hope reviving when they reached this shelter.

There was no light; nothing above, beneath, around, on any side, but tearing tempest and snow
whirled through the ravine. The horses were taken out of the carriage; on their way to the
stable, which fortunately in these mountain regions will be always found beside the poorest
habitation, one of them fell back across a wall and nearly broke his spine. Hoffnungsau is
inhabited all through the year. In its dismal dark kitchen we found a knot of workmen gathered
together, and heard there were two horses on the premises besides our own. It then occurred
to us that we might accomplish the rest of the journey with such sledges as they bring the
wood on from the hills in winter, if coal-boxes or boxes of any sort could be provided. These
should be lashed to the sledges and filled with hay. We were only four persons; my wife and
a friend should go in one, myself and my little girl in the other. No sooner thought of than
put into practice. These original conveyances were improvised, and after two hours' halt on
the Meadow of Hope, we all set forth again at half-past eight.

I have rarely felt anything more piercing than the grim cold of that journey. We crawled at
a foot's pace through changeful snow-drifts. The road was obliterated, and it was my duty to
keep a petroleum stable-lamp swinging to illuminate the untracked wilderness. My little girl
was snugly nested in the hay, and sound asleep with a deep white covering of snow above her.
Meanwhile, the drift clave in frozen masses to our faces, lashed by a wind so fierce and keen
that it was difficult to breathe it. My forehead-bone ached, as though with neuralgia, from
the mere mask of icy snow upon it, plastered on with frost. Nothing could be seen but millions
of white specks, whirled at us in eddying concentric circles. Not far from the entrance to
the village we met our house-folk out with lanterns to look for us. It was past eleven at night
when at last we entered warm rooms and refreshed ourselves for the tiring day with a jovial
champagne supper. Horses, carriage, and drunken driver reached home next morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD TOWNS OF PROVENCE

Travellers journeying southward from Paris first meet with olive-trees near Montdragon or Monsélimart--little
towns, with old historic names, upon the road to Orange. It is here that we begin to feel ourselves
within the land of Provence, where the Romans found a second Italy, and where the autumn of
their antique civilisation was followed, almost without an intermediate winter of barbarism,
by the light and delicate springtime of romance. Orange itself is full of Rome. Indeed, the
ghost of the dead empire seems there to be more real and living than the actual flesh and blood
of modern time, as represented by narrow dirty streets and mean churches. It is the shell of
the huge theatre, hollowed from the solid hill, and fronted with a wall that seems made rather
to protect a city than to form a sounding-board for a stage, which first tells us that we have
reached the old Arausio. Of all theatres this is the most impressive, stupendous, indestructible,
the Colosseum hardly excepted; for in Rome herself we are prepared for something gigantic,
while in the insignificant Arausio--a sort of antique Tewkesbury--to find such magnificence,
durability, and vastness, impresses one with a nightmare sense that the old lioness of Empire
can scarcely yet be dead. Standing before the colossal, towering, amorphous precipice which
formed the background of the scena, we feel as if once more the 'heart-shaking sound of Consul
Romanus' might be heard; as if Roman knights and deputies, arisen from the dead, with faces
hard and stern as those of the warriors carved on Trajan's frieze, might take their seats beneath
us in the orchestra, and, after proclamation made, the mortmain of imperial Rome be laid upon
the comforts, liberties, and little gracefulnesses of our modern life. Nor is it unpleasant
to be startled from such reverie by the voice of the old guardian upon the stage beneath, sonorously
devolving the vacuous Alexandrines with which he once welcomed his ephemeral French emperor
from Algiers. The little man is dim with distance, eclipsed and swallowed up by the shadows
and grotesque fragments of the ruin in the midst of which he stands. But his voice--thanks
to the inimitable constructive art of the ancient architect, which, even in the desolation
of at least thirteen centuries, has not lost its cunning-emerges from the pigmy throat, and
fills the whole vast hollow with its clear, if tiny, sound. Thank heaven, there is no danger
of Roman resurrection here! The illusion is completely broken, and we turn to gather the first
violets of February, and to wonder at the quaint postures of a praying mantis on the grass
grown tiers and porches fringed with fern.

The sense of Roman greatness which is so oppressive in Orange and in many other parts of Provence,
is not felt at Avignon. Here we exchange the ghost of Imperial for the phantom of Ecclesiastical
Rome. The fixed epithet of Avignon is Papal; and as the express train rushes over its bleak
and wind-tormented plain, the heavy dungeon-walls and battlemented towers of its palace fortress
seem to warn us off, and bid us quickly leave the Babylon of exiled impious Antichrist. Avignon
presents the bleakest, barest, greyest scene upon a February morning, when the incessant mistral
is blowing, and far and near, upon desolate hillside and sandy plain, the scanty trees are
bent sideways, the crumbling castle turrets shivering like bleached skeletons in the dry ungenial
air. Yet inside the town, all is not so dreary. The Papal palace, with its terrible Glacière,
its chapel painted by Simone Memmi, its endless corridors and staircases, its torture-chamber,
funnel-shaped to drown and suffocate--so runs tradition--the shrieks of wretches on the rack,
is now a barrack, filled with lively little French soldiers, whose politeness, though sorely
taxed, is never ruffled by the introduction of inquisitive visitors into their dormitories,
eating-places, and drill-grounds. And strange, indeed, it is to see the lines of neat narrow
barrack beds, between which the red-legged little men are shaving, polishing their guns, or
mending their trousers, in those vaulted halls of popes and cardinals, those vast presence-chambers
and audience-galleries, where Urban entertained S. Catherine, where Rienzi came, a prisoner,
to be stared at. Pass by the Glacière with a shudder, for it has still the reek of blood about
it; and do not long delay in the cheerless dungeon of Rienzi. Time and regimental whitewash
have swept these lurking-places of old crime very bare; but the parable of the seven devils
is true in more senses than one, and the ghosts that return to haunt a deodorised, disinfected,
garnished sepulchre are almost more ghastly than those which have never been disturbed from
their old habitations.

Little by little the eye becomes accustomed to the bareness and greyness of this Provençal
landscape; and then we find that the scenery round Avignon is eminently picturesque. The view
from Les Doms--which is a hill above the Pope's palace, the Acropolis, as it were, of Avignon--embraces
a wide stretch of undulating champaign, bordered by low hills, and intersected by the flashing
waters of the majestic Rhone. Across the stream stands Villeneuve, like a castle of romance,
with its round stone towers fronting the gates and battlemented walls of the Papal city. A
bridge used to connect the two towns, but it is now broken. The remaining fragment is of solid
build, resting on great buttresses, one of which rises fantastically above the bridge into
a little chapel. Such, one might fancy, was the bridge which Ariosto's Rodomonte kept on horse
against the Paladins of Charlemagne, when angered by the loss of his love. Nor is it difficult
to imagine Bradamante spurring up the slope against him with her magic lance in rest, and tilting
him into the tawny waves beneath.

On a clear October morning, when the vineyards are taking their last tints of gold and crimson,
and the yellow foliage of the poplars by the river mingles with the sober greys of olive-trees
and willows, every square inch of this landscape, glittering as it does with light and with
colour, the more beautiful for its subtlety and rarity, would make a picture. Out of many such
vignettes let us choose one. We are on the shore close by the ruined bridge, the rolling muddy
Rhone in front; beyond it, by the towing-path, a tall strong cypress-tree rises beside a little
house, and next to it a crucifix twelve feet or more in height, the Christ visible afar, stretched
upon His red cross; arundo donax is waving all around, and willows near; behind, far off, soar
the peaked hills, blue and pearled with clouds; past the cypress, on the Rhone, comes floating
a long raft, swift through the stream, its rudder guided by a score of men: one standing erect
upon the prow bends forward to salute the cross; on flies the raft, the tall reeds rustle,
and the cypress sleeps.

For those who have time to spare in going to or from the south it is worth while to spend a
day or two in the most comfortable and characteristic of old French inns, the Hôtel de l'Europe,
at Avignon. Should it rain, the museum of the town is worth a visit. It contains Horace Vernet's
not uncelebrated picture of Mazeppa, and another, less famous, but perhaps more interesting,
by swollen-cheeked David, the 'genius in convulsion,' as Carlyle has christened him. His canvas
is unfinished. Who knows what cry of the Convention made the painter fling his palette down
and leave the masterpiece he might have spoiled? For in its way the picture is a masterpiece.
There lies Jean Barrad, drummer, aged fourteen, slain in La Vendée, a true patriot, who, while
his life-blood flowed away, pressed the tricolor cockade to his heart, and murmured 'Liberty!'
David has treated his subject classically. The little drummer-boy, though French enough in
feature and in feeling, lies, Greek-like, naked on the sand--a very Hyacinth of the Republic,
La Vendée's Ilioneus. The tricolor cockade and the sentiment of upturned patriotic eyes are
the only indications of his being a hero in his teens, a citizen who thought it sweet to die
for France.

In fine weather a visit to Vaucluse should by no means be omitted, not so much, perhaps, for
Petrarch's sake as for the interest of the drive, and for the marvel of the fountain of the
Sorgues. For some time after leaving Avignon you jog along the level country between avenues
of plane-trees; then comes a hilly ridge, on which the olives, mulberries, and vineyards join
their colours and melt subtly into distant purple. After crossing this we reach L'Isle, an
island village girdled by the gliding Sorgues, overshadowed with gigantic plane-boughs, and
echoing to the plash of water dripped from mossy fern-tufted millwheels. Those who expect Petrarch's
Sorgues to be some trickling poet's rill emerging from a damp grotto, may well be astounded
at the rush and roar of this azure river so close upon its fountain-head. It has a volume and
an arrow-like rapidity that communicate the feeling of exuberance and life. In passing, let
it not be forgotten that it was somewhere or other in this 'chiaro fondo di Sorga,' as Carlyle
describes, that Jourdain, the hangman-hero of the Glacière, stuck fast upon his pony when flying
from his foes, and had his accursed life, by some diabolical providence, spared for future
butcheries. On we go across the austere plain, between fields of madder, the red roots of the
'garance' lying in swathes along the furrows. In front rise ash-grey hills of barren rock,
here and there crimsoned with the leaves of the dwarf sumach. A huge cliff stands up and seems
to bar all passage. Yet the river foams in torrents at our side. Whence can it issue? What
pass or cranny in that precipice is cloven for its escape? These questions grow in interest
as we enter the narrow defile of limestone rocks which leads to the cliff-barrier, and find
ourselves among the figs and olives of Vaucluse. Here is the village, the little church, the
ugly column to Petrarch's memory, the inn, with its caricatures of Laura, and its excellent
trout, the bridge and the many-flashing, eddying Sorgues, lashed by millwheels, broken by weirs,
divided in its course, channelled and dyked, yet flowing irresistibly and undefiled. Blue,
purple, greened by moss and water-weeds, silvered by snow-white pebbles, on its pure smooth
bed the river runs like elemental diamond, so clear and fresh. The rocks on either side are
grey or yellow, terraced into oliveyards, with here and there a cypress, fig, or mulberry tree.
Soon the gardens cease, and lentisk, rosemary, box, and ilex--shrubs of Provence--with here
and there a sumach out of reach, cling to the hard stone. And so at last we are brought face
to face with the sheer impassable precipice. At its basement sleeps a pool, perfectly untroubled;
a lakelet in which the sheltering rocks and nestling wild figs are glassed as in a mirror--a
mirror of blue-black water, like amethyst or fluor-spar--so pure, so still, that where it laps
the pebbles you can scarcely say where air begins and water ends. This, then, is Petrarch's
'grotto;' this is the fountain of Vaucluse. Up from its deep reservoirs, from the mysterious
basements of the mountain, wells the silent stream; pauseless and motionless it fills its urn,
rises unruffled, glides until the brink is reached, then overflows, and foams, and dashes noisily,
a cataract, among the boulders of the hills. Nothing at Vaucluse is more impressive than the
contrast between the tranquil silence of the fountain and the roar of the released impetuous
river. Here we can realise the calm clear eyes of sculptured water-gods, their brimming urns,
their gushing streams, the magic of the mountain-born and darkness-cradled flood. Or again,
looking up at the sheer steep cliff, 800 feet in height, and arching slightly roofwise, so
that no rain falls upon the cavern of the pool, we seem to see the stroke of Neptune's trident,
the hoof of Pegasus, the force of Moses' rod, which cleft rocks and made water gush forth in
the desert. There is a strange fascination in the spot. As our eyes follow the white pebble
which cleaves the surface and falls visibly, until the veil of azure is too thick for sight
to pierce, we feel as if some glamour were drawing us, like Hylas, to the hidden caves. At
least, we long to yield a prized and precious offering to the spring, to grace the nymph of
Vaucluse with a pearl of price as token of our reverence and love.

Meanwhile nothing has been said about Petrarch, who himself said much about the spring, and
complained against those very nymphs to whom we have in wish, at least, been scattering jewels,
that they broke his banks and swallowed up his gardens every winter. At Vaucluse Petrarch loved,
and lived, and sang. He has made Vaucluse famous, and will never be forgotten there. But for
the present the fountain is even more attractive than the memory of the poet.[4]

The change from Avignon to Nismes is very trying to the latter place; for Nismes is not picturesquely
or historically interesting. It is a prosperous modern French town with two almost perfect
Roman monuments--Les Arènes and the Maison Carrée. The amphitheatre is a complete oval, visible
at one glance. Its smooth white stone, even where it has not been restored, seems unimpaired
by age; and Charles Martel's conflagration, when he burned the Saracen hornet's nest inside
it, has only blackened the outer walls and arches venerably. Utility and perfect adaptation
of means to ends form the beauty of Roman buildings. The science of construction and large
intelligence displayed in them, their strength, simplicity, solidity, and purpose, are their
glory. Perhaps there is only one modern edifice--Palladio's Palazzo della Ragione at Vicenza--which
approaches the dignity and loftiness of Roman architecture; and this it does because of its
absolute freedom from ornament, the vastness of its design, and the durability of its material.
The temple, called the Maison Carrée, at Nismes, is also very perfect, and comprehended at
one glance. Light, graceful, airy, but rather thin and narrow, it reminds one of the temple
of Fortuna Virilis at Rome.

But if Nismes itself is not picturesque, its environs contain the wonderful Pont du Gard. A
two or three hours' drive leads through a desolate country to the valley of the Cardon, where
suddenly, at a turn of the road, one comes upon the aqueduct. It is not within the scope of
words to describe the impression produced by those vast arches, row above row, cutting the
deep blue sky. The domed summer clouds sailing across them are comprehended in the gigantic
span of their perfect semicircles, which seem rather to have been described by Miltonic compasses
of Deity than by merely human mathematics. Yet, standing beneath one of the vaults and looking
upward, you may read Roman numerals in order from I. to X., which prove their human origin
well enough. Next to their strength, regularity, and magnitude, the most astonishing point
about this triple tier of arches, piled one above the other to a height of 180 feet above a
brawling stream between two barren hills, is their lightness. The arches are not thick; the
causeway on the top is only just broad enough for three men to walk abreast. So smooth and
perpendicular are the supporting walls that scarcely a shrub or tuft of grass has grown upon
the aqueduct in all these years. And yet the huge fabric is strengthened by no buttress, has
needed no repair. This lightness of structure, combined with such prodigious durability, produces
the strongest sense of science and self-reliant power in the men who designed it. None but
Romans could have built such a monument, and have set it in such a place--a wilderness of rock
and rolling hill, scantily covered with low brushwood, and browsed over by a few sheep--for
such a purpose, too, in order to supply Nemausus with pure water. The modern town does pretty
well without its water; but here subsists the civilisation of eighteen centuries past intact:
the human labour yet remains, the measuring, contriving mind of man, shrinking from no obstacles,
spanning the air, and in one edifice combining gigantic strength and perfect beauty. It is
impossible not to echo Rousseau's words in such a place, and to say with him: 'Le retentissement
de mes pas dans ces immenses voûtes me faisait croire entendre la forte voix de ceux qui les
avaient bâties. Je me perdais comme un insecte dans cette immensité. Je sentais, tout en me
faisant petit, je ne sais quoi qui m'élevait l'âme; et je me disais en soupirant, Que ne suis-je
né Romain!'

There is nothing at Arles which produces the same deep and indelible impression. Yet Arles
is a far more interesting town than Nismes, partly because of the Rhone delta which begins
there, partly because of its ruinous antiquity, and partly also because of the strong local
character of its population. The amphitheatre of Arles is vaster and more sublime in its desolation
than the tidy theatre at Nismes; the crypts, and dens, and subterranean passages suggest all
manner of speculation as to the uses to which they may have been appropriated; while the broken
galleries outside, intricate and black and cavernous, like Piranesi's etchings of the 'Carceri,'
present the wildest pictures of greatness in decay, fantastic dilapidation. The ruins of the
smaller theatre, again, with their picturesquely grouped fragments and their standing columns,
might be sketched for a frontispiece to some dilettante work on classical antiquities. For
the rest, perhaps the Aliscamps, or ancient Roman burial-ground, is the most interesting thing
at Arles, not only because of Dante's celebrated lines in the canto of 'Farinata:'--

  Si come ad Arli ove 'l Rodano stagna,
  Fanno i sepolcri tutto 'l loco varo;

but also because of the intrinsic picturesqueness of this avenue of sepulchres beneath green
trees upon a long soft grassy field.

But as at Avignon and Nismes, so also at Arles, one of the chief attractions of the place lies
at a distance, and requires a special expedition. The road to Les Baux crosses a true Provençal
desert where one realises the phrase, 'Vieux comme les rochers de Provence,'--a wilderness
of grey stone, here and there worn into cart-tracks, and tufted with rosemary, box, lavender,
and lentisk. On the way it passes the Abbaye de Mont Majeur, a ruin of gigantic size, embracing
all periods of architecture; where nothing seems to flourish now but henbane and the wild cucumber,
or to breathe but a mumble-toothed and terrible old hag. The ruin stands above a desolate marsh,
its vast Italian buildings of Palladian splendour looking more forlorn in their decay than
the older and austerer mediæval towers, which rise up proud and patient and defiantly erect
beneath the curse of time. When at length what used to be the castle town of Les Baux is reached,
you find a naked mountain of yellow sandstone, worn away by nature into bastions and buttresses
and coigns of vantage, sculptured by ancient art into palaces and chapels, battlements and
dungeons. Now art and nature are confounded in one ruin. Blocks of masonry lie cheek by jowl
with masses of the rough-hewn rock; fallen cavern vaults are heaped round fragments of fan-shaped
spandrel and clustered column-shaft; the doors and windows of old pleasure-rooms are hung with
ivy and wild fig for tapestry; winding staircases start midway upon the cliff, and lead to
vacancy. High overhead suspended in mid-air hang chambers--lady's bower or poet's singing-room--now
inaccessible, the haunt of hawks and swallows. Within this rocky honeycomb--'cette ville en
monolithe,' as it has been aptly called, for it is literally scooped out of one mountain block--live
about two hundred poor people, foddering their wretched goats at carved piscina and stately
sideboards, erecting mud beplastered hovels in the halls of feudal princes. Murray is wrong
in calling the place a mediæval town in its original state, for anything more purely ruinous,
more like a decayed old cheese, cannot possibly be conceived. The living only inhabit the tombs
of the dead. At the end of the last century, when revolutionary effervescence was beginning
to ferment, the people of Arles swept all its feudality away, defacing the very arms upon the
town gate, and trampling the palace towers to dust.

The castle looks out across a vast extent of plain over Arles, the stagnant Rhone, the Camargue,
and the salt pools of the lingering sea. In old days it was the eyrie of an eagle race called
Seigneurs of Les Baux; and whether they took their title from the rock, or whether, as genealogists
would have it, they gave the name of Oriental Balthazar--their reputed ancestor, one of the
Magi--to the rock itself, remains a mystery not greatly worth the solving.

Anyhow, here they lived and flourished, these feudal princes, bearing for their ensign a silver
comet of sixteen rays upon a field of gules--themselves a comet race, baleful to the neighbouring
lowlands, blazing with lurid splendour over wide tracts of country, a burning, raging, fiery-souled,
swift-handed tribe, in whom a flame unquenchable glowed from son to sire through twice five
hundred years until, in the sixteenth century, they were burned out, and nothing remained but
cinders--these broken ruins of their eyrie, and some outworn and dusty titles. Very strange
are the fate and history of these same titles: King of Arles, for instance, savouring of troubadour
and high romance; Prince of Tarentum, smacking of old plays and Italian novels; Prince of Orange,
which the Nassaus, through the Châlons, seized in all its emptiness long after the real principality
had passed away, and came therewith to sit on England's throne.

The Les Baux in their heyday were patterns of feudal nobility. They warred incessantly with
Counts of Provence, archbishops and burghers of Arles, Queens of Naples, Kings of Aragon. Crusading,
pillaging, betraying, spending their substance on the sword, and buying it again by deeds of
valour or imperial acts of favour, tuning troubadour harps, presiding at courts of love,--they
filled a large page in the history of Southern France. The Les Baux were very superstitious.
In the fulness of their prosperity they restricted the number of their dependent towns, or
places baussenques, to seventy-nine, because these numbers in combination were thought to be
of good omen to their house. Beral des Baux, Seigneur of Marseilles, was one day starting on
a journey with his whole force to Avignon. He met an old woman herb-gathering at daybreak,
and said, 'Mother, hast thou seen a crow or other bird?' 'Yea,' answered the crone, 'on the
trunk of a dead willow.' Beral counted upon his fingers the day of the year, and turned bridle.
With troubadours of name and note they had dealings, but not always to their own advantage,
as the following story testifies. When the Baux and Berengers were struggling for the countship
of Provence, Raymond Berenger, by his wife's counsel, went, attended by troubadours, to meet
the Emperor Frederick at Milan. There he sued for the investiture and ratification of Provence.
His troubadours sang and charmed Frederick; and the Emperor, for the joy he had in them, wrote
his celebrated lines beginning--

  Plas mi cavalier Francez.

And when Berenger made his request he met with no refusal. Hearing thereof, the lords of Baux
came down in wrath with a clangour of armed men. But music had already gained the day; and
where the Phoebus of Provence had shone, the Æolus of storm-shaken Les Baux was powerless.
Again, when Blacas, a knight of Provence, died, the great Sordello chanted one of his most
fiery hymns, bidding the princes of Christendom flock round and eat the heart of the dead lord.
'Let Rambaude des Baux,' cries the bard, with a sarcasm that is clearly meant, but at this
distance almost unintelligible, 'take also a good piece, for she is fair and good and truly
virtuous; let her keep it well who knows so well to husband her own weal.' But the poets were
not always adverse to the house of Baux. Fouquet, the beautiful and gentle melodist whom Dante
placed in paradise, served Adelaisie, wife of Berald, with long service of unhappy love, and
wrote upon her death 'The Complaint of Berald des Baux for Adelaisie.' Guillaume de Cabestan
loved Berangère des Baux, and was so loved by her that she gave him a philtre to drink, whereof
he sickened and grew mad. Many more troubadours are cited as having frequented the castle of
Les Baux, and among the members of the princely house were several poets.

Some of them were renowned for beauty. We hear of a Cécile, called Passe Rose, because of her
exceeding loveliness; also of an unhappy François, who, after passing eighteen years in prison,
yet won the grace and love of Joan of Naples by his charms. But the real temper of this fierce
tribe was not shown among troubadours, or in the courts of love and beauty. The stern and barren
rock from which they sprang, and the comet of their scutcheon, are the true symbols of their
nature. History records no end of their ravages and slaughters. It is a tedious catalogue of
blood--how one prince put to fire and sword the whole town of Courthezon; how another was stabbed
in prison by his wife; how a third besieged the castle of his niece, and sought to undermine
her chamber, knowing her the while to be in childbed; how a fourth was flayed alive outside
the walls of Avignon. There is nothing terrible, splendid, and savage, belonging to feudal
history, of which an example may not be found in the annals of Les Baux, as narrated by their
chronicler, Jules Canonge.

However abrupt may seem the transition from these memories of the ancient nobles of Les Baux
to mere matters of travel and picturesqueness, it would be impossible to take leave of the
old towns of Provence without glancing at the cathedrals of S. Trophime at Arles, and of S.
Gilles--a village on the border of the dreary flamingo-haunted Camargue. Both of these buildings
have porches splendidly encrusted with sculptures, half classical, half mediæval, marking the
transition from ancient to modern art. But that of S. Gilles is by far the richer and more
elaborate. The whole façade of this church is one mass of intricate decoration; Norman arches
and carved lions, like those of Lombard architecture, mingling fantastically with Greek scrolls
of fruit and flowers, with elegant Corinthian columns jutting out upon the church steps, and
with the old conventional wave-border that is called Etruscan in our modern jargon. From the
midst of florid fret and foliage lean mild faces of saints and Madonnas. Symbols of evangelists
with half-human, half-animal eyes and wings, are interwoven with the leafy bowers of cupids.
Grave apostles stand erect beneath acanthus wreaths that ought to crisp the forehead of a laughing
Faun or Bacchus. And yet so full, exuberant, and deftly chosen are these various elements,
that there remains no sense of incongruity or discord. The mediæval spirit had much trouble
to disentangle itself from classic reminiscences; and fortunately for the picturesqueness of
S. Gilles, it did not succeed. How strangely different is the result of this transition in
the south from those severe and rigid forms which we call Romanesque in Germany and Normandy
and England!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CORNICE

It was a dull afternoon in February when we left Nice, and drove across the mountains to Mentone.
Over hill and sea hung a thick mist. Turbia's Roman tower stood up in cheerless solitude, wreathed
round with driving vapour, and the rocky nest of Esa seemed suspended in a chaos between sea
and sky. Sometimes the fog broke and showed us Villafranca, lying green and flat in the deep
blue below: sometimes a distant view of higher peaks swam into sight from the shifting cloud.
But the whole scene was desolate. Was it for this that we had left our English home, and travelled
from London day and night? At length we reached the edge of the cloud, and jingled down by
Roccabruna and the olive-groves, till one by one Mentone's villas came in sight, and at last
we found ourselves at the inn door. That night, and all next day and the next night, we heard
the hoarse sea beat and thunder on the beach. The rain and wind kept driving from the south,
but we consoled ourselves with thinking that the orange-trees and every kind of flower were
drinking in the moisture and waiting to rejoice in sunlight which would come.

It was a Sunday morning when we woke and found that the rain had gone, the sun was shining
brightly on the sea, and a clear north wind was blowing cloud and mist away. Out upon the hills
we went, not caring much what path we took; for everything was beautiful, and hill and vale
were full of garden walks. Through lemon-groves,--pale, golden-tender trees,--and olives, stretching
their grey boughs against the lonely cottage tiles, we climbed, until we reached the pines
and heath above. Then I knew the meaning of Theocritus for the first time. We found a well,
broad, deep, and clear, with green herbs growing at the bottom, a runlet flowing from it down
the rocky steps, maidenhair, black adiantum, and blue violets, hanging from the brink and mirrored
in the water. This was just the well in Hylas. Theocritus has been badly treated. They call
him a court poet, dead to Nature, artificial in his pictures. Yet I recognised this fountain
by his verse, just as if he had showed me the very spot. Violets grow everywhere, of every
shade, from black to lilac. Their stalks are long, and the flowers 'nod' upon them, so that
I see how the Greeks could make them into chaplets--how Lycidas wore his crown of white violets[5]
lying by the fireside elbow-deep in withered asphodel, watching the chestnuts in the embers,
and softly drinking deep healths to Ageanax far off upon the waves. It is impossible to go
wrong in these valleys. They are cultivated to the height of about five hundred feet above
the sea, in terraces laboriously built up with walls, earthed and manured, and irrigated by
means of tanks and aqueducts. Above this level, where the virgin soil has not been yet reclaimed,
or where the winds of winter bring down freezing currents from the mountains through a gap
or gully of the lower hills, a tangled growth of heaths and arbutus, and pines, and rosemarys,
and myrtles, continue the vegetation, till it finally ends in bare grey rocks and peaks some
thousand feet in height. Far above all signs of cultivation on these arid peaks, you still
may see villages and ruined castles, built centuries ago for a protection from the Moorish
pirates. To these mountain fastnesses the people of the coast retreated when they descried
the sails of their foes on the horizon. In Mentone, not very long ago, old men might be seen
who in their youth were said to have been taken captive by the Moors; and many Arabic words
have found their way into the patois of the people.

There is something strangely fascinating in the sight of these ruins on the burning rocks,
with their black sentinel cypresses, immensely tall and far away. Long years and rain and sunlight
have made these castellated eyries one with their native stone. It is hard to trace in their
foundations where Nature's workmanship ends and where man's begins. What strange sights the
mountain villagers must see! The vast blue plain of the unfurrowed deep, the fairy range of
Corsica hung midway between the sea and sky at dawn or sunset, the stars so close above their
heads, the deep dew-sprinkled valleys, the green pines! On penetrating into one of these hill-fortresses,
you find that it is a whole village, with a church and castle and piazza, some few feet square,
huddled together on a narrow platform. We met one day three magnates of Gorbio taking a morning
stroll backwards and forwards, up and down their tiny square. Vehemently gesticulating, loudly
chattering, they talked as though they had not seen each other for ten years, and were but
just unloading their budgets of accumulated news. Yet these three men probably had lived, eaten,
drunk, and talked together from the cradle to that hour: so true it is that use and custom
quicken all our powers, especially of gossiping and scandal-mongering. S. Agnese is the highest
and most notable of all these villages. The cold and heat upon its absolutely barren rock must
be alike intolerable. In appearance it is not unlike the Etruscan towns of Central Italy; but
there is something, of course, far more imposing in the immense antiquity and the historical
associations of a Narni, a Fiesole, a Chiusi, or an Orvieto. Sea-life and rusticity strike
a different note from that of those Apennine-girdled seats of dead civilisation, in which nations,
arts, and religions have gone by and left but few traces,--some wrecks of giant walls, some
excavated tombs, some shrines, where monks still sing and pray above the relics of the founders
of once world-shaking, now almost forgotten, orders. Here at Mentone there is none of this;
the idyllic is the true note, and Theocritus is still alive.

We do not often scale these altitudes, but keep along the terraced glades by the side of olive-shaded
streams. The violets, instead of peeping shyly from hedgerows, fall in ripples and cascades
over mossy walls among maidenhair and spleen-worts. They are very sweet, and the sound of trickling
water seems to mingle with their fragrance in a most delicious harmony. Sound, smell, and hue
make up one chord, the sense of which is pure and perfect peace. The country-people are kind,
letting us pass everywhere, so that we make our way along their aqueducts and through their
gardens, under laden lemon-boughs, the pale fruit dangling at our ears, and swinging showers
of scented dew upon us as we pass. Far better, however, than lemon or orange trees, are the
olives. Some of these are immensely old, numbering, it is said, five centuries, so that Petrarch
may almost have rested beneath their shade on his way to Avignon. These veterans are cavernous
with age: gnarled, split, and twisted trunks, throwing out arms that break into a hundred branches;
every branch distinct, and feathered with innumerable sparks and spikelets of white, wavy,
greenish light. These are the leaves, and the stems are grey with lichens. The sky and sea--two
blues, one full of sunlight and the other purple--set these fountains of perennial brightness
like gems in lapis-lazuli. At a distance the same olives look hoary and soft--a veil of woven
light or luminous haze. When the wind blows their branches all one way, they ripple like a
sea of silver. But underneath their covert, in the shade, grey periwinkles wind among the snowy
drift of allium. The narcissus sends its arrowy fragrance through the air, while, far and wide,
red anemones burn like fire, with interchange of blue and lilac buds, white arums, orchises,
and pink gladiolus. Wandering there, and seeing the pale flowers, stars white and pink and
odorous, we dream of Olivet, or the grave Garden of the Agony, and the trees seem always whispering
of sacred things. How people can blaspheme against the olives, and call them imitations of
the willow, or complain that they are shabby shrubs, I do not know.[6]

This shore would stand for Shelley's Island of Epipsychidion, or the golden age which Empedocles
describes, when the mild nations worshipped Aphrodite with incense and the images of beasts
and yellow honey, and no blood was spilt upon her altars--when 'the trees flourished with perennial
leaves and fruit, and ample crops adorned their boughs through all the year.' This even now
is literally true of the lemon-groves, which do not cease to flower and ripen. Everything fits
in to complete the reproduction of Greek pastoral life. The goats eat cytisus and myrtle on
the shore; a whole flock gathered round me as I sat beneath a tuft of golden green euphorbia
the other day, and nibbled bread from my hands. The frog still croaks by tank and fountain,
'whom the Muses have ordained to sing for aye,' in spite of Bion's death. The narcissus, anemone,
and hyacinth still tell their tales of love and death. Hesper still gazes on the shepherd from
the mountain-head. The slender cypresses still vibrate, the pines murmur. Pan sleeps in noontide
heat, and goat-herds and wayfaring men lie down to slumber by the roadside, under olive-boughs
in which cicadas sing. The little villages high up are just as white, the mountains just as
grey and shadowy when evening falls. Nothing is changed--except ourselves. I expect to find
a statue of Priapus or pastoral Pan, hung with wreaths of flowers--the meal cake, honey, and
spilt wine upon his altar, and young boys and maidens dancing round. Surely, in some far-off
glade, by the side of lemon-grove or garden, near the village, there must be still a pagan
remnant of glad Nature-worship. Surely I shall chance upon some Thyrsis piping in the pine-tree
shade, or Daphne flying from the arms of Phoebus. So I dream until I come upon the Calvary
set on a solitary hillock, with its prayer-steps lending a wide prospect across the olives
and the orange-trees, and the broad valleys, to immeasurable skies and purple seas. There is
the iron cross, the wounded heart, the spear, the reed, the nails, the crown of thorns, the
cup of sacrificial blood, the title, with its superscription royal and divine. The other day
we crossed a brook and entered a lemon-field, rich with blossoms and carpeted with red anemones.
Everything basked in sunlight and glittered with exceeding brilliancy of hue. A tiny white
chapel stood in a corner of the enclosure. Two iron-grated windows let me see inside: it was
a bare place, containing nothing but a wooden praying-desk, black and worm-eaten, an altar
with its candles and no flowers, and above the altar a square picture brown with age. On the
floor were scattered several pence, and in a vase above the holy-water vessel stood some withered
hyacinths. As my sight became accustomed to the gloom, I could see from the darkness of the
picture a pale Christ nailed to the cross with agonising upward eyes and ashy aureole above
the bleeding thorns. Thus I stepped suddenly away from the outward pomp and bravery of nature
to the inward aspirations, agonies, and martyrdoms of man--from Greek legends of the past to
the real Christian present--and I remembered that an illimitable prospect has been opened to
the world, that in spite of ourselves we must turn our eyes heavenward, inward, to the infinite
unseen beyond us and within our souls. Nothing can take us back to Phoebus or to Pan. Nothing
can again identify us with the simple natural earth. 'Une immense espérance a traversé la terre,'
and these chapels, with their deep significances, lurk in the fair landscape like the cares
of real life among our dreams of art, or like a fear of death and the hereafter in the midst
of opera music. It is a strange contrast. The worship of men in those old times was symbolised
by dances in the evening, banquets, libations, and mirth-making. 'Euphrosyne' was alike the
goddess of the righteous mind and of the merry heart. Old withered women telling their rosaries
at dusk; belated shepherds crossing themselves beneath the stars when they pass the chapel;
maidens weighed down with Margaret's anguish of unhappy love; youths vowing their life to contemplation
in secluded cloisters,--these are the human forms which gather round such chapels; and the
motto of the worshippers consists in this, 'Do often violence to thy desire.' In the Tyrol
we have seen whole villages praying together at daybreak before their day's work, singing their
Miserere and their Gloria and their Dies Iræ, to the sound of crashing organs and jangling
bells; appealing in the midst of Nature's splendour to the Spirit which is above Nature, which
dwells in darkness rather than light, and loves the yearnings and contentions of our soul more
than its summer gladness and peace. Even the olives here tell more to us of Olivet and the
Garden than of the oil-press and the wrestling-ground. The lilies carry us to the Sermon on
the Mount, and teach humility, instead of summoning up some legend of a god's love for a mortal.
The hillside tanks and running streams, and water-brooks swollen by sudden rain, speak of Palestine.
We call the white flowers stars of Bethlehem. The large sceptre-reed; the fig-tree, lingering
in barrenness when other trees are full of fruit; the locust-beans of the Caruba:--for one
suggestion of Greek idylls there is yet another, of far deeper, dearer power.

But who can resist the influence of Greek ideas at the Cap S. Martin? Down to the verge of
the sea stretch the tall, twisted stems of Levant pines, and on the caverned limestone breaks
the deep blue water. Dazzling as marble are these rocks, pointed and honeycombed with constant
dashing of the restless sea, tufted with corallines and grey and purple seaweeds in the little
pools, but hard and dry and rough above tide level. Nor does the sea always lap them quietly;
for the last few days it has come tumbling in, roaring and raging on the beach with huge waves
crystalline in their transparency, and maned with fleecy spray. Such were the rocks and such
the swell of breakers when Ulysses grasped the shore after his long swim. Samphire, very salt
and fragrant, grows in the rocky honeycomb; then lentisk and beach-loving myrtle, both exceeding
green and bushy; then rosemary and euphorbia above the reach of spray. Fishermen, with their
long reeds, sit lazily perched upon black rocks above blue waves, sunning themselves as much
as seeking sport. One distant tip of snow, seen far away behind the hills, reminds us of an
alien, unremembered winter. While dreaming there, this fancy came into my head: Polyphemus
was born yonder in the Gorbio Valley. There he fed his sheep and goats, and on the hills found
scanty pasture for his kine. He and his mother lived in the white house by the cypress near
the stream where tulips grow. Young Galatea, nursed in the caverns of these rocks, white as
the foam, and shy as the sea fishes, came one morning up the valley to pick mountain hyacinths,
and little Polyphemus led the way. He knew where violets and sweet narcissus grew, as well
as Galatea where pink coralline and spreading sea-flowers with their waving arms. But Galatea,
having filled her lap with bluebells, quite forgot the leaping kids, and piping Cyclops, and
cool summer caves, and yellow honey, and black ivy, and sweet vine, and water cold as Alpine
snow. Down the swift streamlet she danced laughingly, and made herself once more bitter with
the sea. But Polyphemus remained,--hungry, sad, gazing on the barren sea, and piping to the
mockery of its waves.

Filled with these Greek fancies, it is strange to come upon a little sandstone dell furrowed
by trickling streams and overgrown with English primroses; or to enter the village of Roccabruna,
with its mediæval castle and the motto on its walls, Tempora labuntur tacitisque senescimus
annis. A true motto for the town, where the butcher comes but once a week, and where men and
boys, and dogs, and palms, and lemon-trees grow up and flourish and decay in the same hollow
of the sunny mountain-side. Into the hard conglomerate of the hill the town is built; house
walls and precipices mortised into one another, dovetailed by the art of years gone by, and
riveted by age. The same plants grow from both alike--spurge, cistus, rue, and henbane, constant
to the desolation of abandoned dwellings. From the castle you look down on roofs, brown tiles
and chimney-pots, set one above the other like a big card-castle. Each house has its foot on
a neighbour's neck, and its shoulder set against the native stone. The streets meander in and
out, and up and down, overarched and balconied, but very clean. They swarm with children, healthy,
happy, little monkeys, who grow fat on salt fish and yellow polenta, with oil and sun ad libitum.

At night from Roccabruna you may see the flaring gas-lamps of the gaming-house at Monaco, that
Armida's garden of the nineteenth century. It is the sunniest and most sheltered spot of all
the coast. Long ago Lucan said of Monaco, 'Non Corus in illum jus habet aut Zephyrus;' winter
never comes to nip its tangled cactuses, and aloes, and geraniums. The air swoons with the
scent of lemon-groves; tall palm-trees wave their graceful branches by the shore; music of
the softest and the loudest swells from the palace; cool corridors and sunny seats stand ready
for the noontide heat or evening calm; without, are olive-gardens, green and fresh and full
of flowers. But the witch herself holds her high court and never-ending festival of sin in
the painted banquet-halls and among the green tables.

Let us leave this scene and turn with the country-folk of Roccabruna to S. Michael's Church
at Mentone. High above the sea it stands, and from its open doors you look across the mountains
with their olive-trees. Inside the church is a seething mass of country-folk and townspeople,
mostly women, and these almost all old, but picturesque beyond description; kerchiefs of every
colour, wrinkles of every shape and depth, skins of every tone of brown and yellow, voices
of every gruffness, shrillness, strength, and weakness. Wherever an empty corner can be found,
it is soon filled by tottering babies and mischievous children. The country-women come with
their large dangling earrings of thin gold, wearing pink tulips or lemon-buds in their black
hair. A low buzz of gossiping and mutual recognition keeps the air alive. The whole service
seems a holiday--a general enjoyment of gala dresses and friendly greetings, very different
from the silence, immobility, and noli me tangere aspect of an English congregation. Over all
drones, rattles, snores, and shrieks the organ; wailing, querulous, asthmatic, incomplete,
its everlasting nasal chant--always beginning, never ending, through a range of two or three
notes ground into one monotony. The voices of the congregation rise and sink above it. These
southern people, like the Arabs, the Apulians, and the Spaniards, seem to find their music
in a hurdy-gurdy swell of sound. The other day we met a little girl, walking and spinning,
and singing all the while, whose song was just another version of this chant. It has a discontented
plaintive wail, as if it came from some vast age, and were a cousin of primeval winds.

At first sight, by the side of Mentone, San Remo is sadly prosaic. The valleys seem to sprawl,
and the universal olives are monotonously grey upon their thick clay soil. Yet the wealth of
flowers in the fat earth is wonderful. One might fancy oneself in a weedy farm flower-bed invaded
by stray oats and beans and cabbages and garlic from the kitchen-garden. The country does not
suggest a single Greek idea. It has no form or outline--no barren peaks, no spare and difficult
vegetation. The beauty is rich but tame--valleys green with oats and corn, blossoming cherry-trees,
and sweet bean-fields, figs coming into leaf, and arrowy bay-trees by the side of sparkling
streams: here and there a broken aqueduct or rainbow bridge hung with maidenhair and briar
and clematis and sarsaparilla.

In the cathedral church of San Siro on Good Friday they hang the columns and the windows with
black; they cover the pictures and deface the altar; above the high altar they raise a crucifix,
and below they place a catafalque with the effigy of the dead Christ. To this sad symbol they
address their prayers and incense, chant their 'litanies and lurries,' and clash the rattles,
which commemorate their rage against the traitor Judas. So far have we already passed away
from the Greek feeling of Mentone. As I listened to the hideous din, I could not but remember
the Theocritean burial of Adonis. Two funeral beds prepared: two feasts recurring in the springtime
of the year. What a difference beneath this superficial similarity--[Greek: kalos nekus oia
katheudôn]--attritus ægrâ macie. But the fast of Good Friday is followed by the festival of
Easter. That, after all, is the chief difference.

After leaving the cathedral we saw a pretty picture in a dull old street of San Remo--three
children leaning from a window, blowing bubbles. The bubbles floated down the street, of every
colour, round and trembling, like the dreams of life which children dream. The town is certainly
most picturesque. It resembles a huge glacier of houses poured over a wedge of rock, running
down the sides and along the ridge, and spreading itself into a fan between two torrents on
the shore below. House over house, with balcony and staircase, convent turret and church tower,
palm-trees and olives, roof gardens and clinging creepers--this white cataract of buildings
streams downward from the lazar-house, and sanctuary, and sandstone quarries on the hill. It
is a mass of streets placed close above each other, and linked together with arms and arches
of solid masonry, as a protection from the earthquakes, which are frequent at San Remo. The
walls are tall, and form a labyrinth of gloomy passages and treacherous blind alleys, where
the Moors of old might meet with a ferocious welcome. Indeed, San Remo is a fortress as well
as a dwelling-place. Over its gateways may still be traced the pipes for molten lead, and on
its walls the eyeloops for arrows, with brackets for the feet of archers. Masses of building
have been shaken down by earthquakes. The ruins of what once were houses gape with blackened
chimneys and dark forlorn cellars; mazes of fungus and unhealthy weeds among the still secure
habitations. Hardly a ray of light penetrates the streets; one learns the meaning of the Italian
word uggia from their cold and gloom. During the day they are deserted by every one but babies
and witchlike old women--some gossiping, some sitting vacant at the house door, some spinning
or weaving, or minding little children--ugly and ancient as are their own homes, yet clean
as are the streets. The younger population goes afield; the men on mules laden for the hills,
the women burdened like mules with heavy and disgusting loads. It is an exceptionally good-looking
race; tall, well-grown, and strong.--But to the streets again. The shops in the upper town
are few, chiefly wine-booths and stalls for the sale of salt fish, eggs, and bread, or cobblers'
and tinkers' ware. Notwithstanding the darkness of their dwellings, the people have a love
of flowers; azaleas lean from their windows, and vines, carefully protected by a sheath of
brickwork, climb the six stories, to blossom out into a pergola upon the roof. Look at that
mass of greenery and colours, dimly seen from beneath, with a yellow cat sunning herself upon
the parapet! To reach such a garden and such sunlight who would not mount six stories and thread
a labyrinth of passages? I should prefer a room upon the east side of the town, looking southward
to the Molo and the sea, with a sound of water beneath, and a palm soaring up to fan my window
with his feathery leaves.

The shrines are little spots of brightness in the gloomy streets. Madonna with a sword; Christ
holding His pierced and bleeding heart; l'Eterno Padre pointing to the dead Son stretched upon
His knee; some souls in torment; S. Roch reminding us of old plagues by the spot upon his thigh;--these
are the symbols of the shrines. Before them stand rows of pots filled with gillyflowers, placed
there by pious, simple, praying hands--by maidens come to tell their sorrows to our Lady rich
in sorrow, by old women bent and shrivelled, in hopes of paradise or gratitude for happy days,
when Madonna kept Cecchino faithful to his home, or saved the baby from the fever.

Lower down, between the sea and the hill, is the municipal, aristocratic, ecclesiastical quarter
of San Remo. There stands the Palace Borea--a truly princely pile, built in the last Renaissance
style of splendour, with sea-nymphs and dolphins, and satyric heads, half lips, half leafage,
round about its doors and windows. Once it formed the dwelling of a feudal family, but now
it is a roomy anthill of a hundred houses, shops, and offices, the Boreas of to-day retaining
but a portion of one flat, and making profit of the rest. There, too, are the barracks and
the syndic's hall; the Jesuits' school, crowded with boys and girls; the shops for clothes,
confectionery, and trinkets; the piazza, with its fountain and tasselled planes, and flowery
chestnut-trees, a mass of greenery. Under these trees the idlers lounge, boys play at leap-frog,
men at bowls. Women in San Remo work all day, but men and boys play for the most part at bowls
or toss-penny or leap-frog or morra. San Siro, the cathedral, stands at one end of the square.
Do not go inside; it has a sickly smell of immemorial incense and garlic, undefinable and horrible.
Far better looks San Siro from the parapet above the torrent. There you see its irregular half-Gothic
outline across a tangle of lemon-trees and olives. The stream rushes by through high walls,
covered with creepers, spanned by ferny bridges, feathered by one or two old tufty palms. And
over all rises the ancient turret of San Siro, like a Spanish giralda, a minaret of pinnacles
and pyramids and dome bubbles, with windows showing heavy bells, old clocks, and sundials painted
on the walls, and a cupola of green and yellow tiles like serpent-scales, to crown the whole.
The sea lies beyond, and the house-roofs break it with grey horizontal lines. Then there are
convents, legions of them, large white edifices, Jesuitical apparently for the most part, clanging
importunate bells, leaning rose-blossoms and cypress-boughs over their jealous walls.

Lastly, there is the port--the mole running out into the sea, the quay planted with plane-trees,
and the fishing-boats--by which San Remo is connected with the naval glory of the past--with
the Riviera that gave birth to Columbus--with the Liguria that the Dorias ruled--with the great
name of Genoa. The port is empty enough now; but from the pier you look back on San Remo and
its circling hills, a jewelled town set in illimitable olive greyness. The quay seems also
to be the cattle-market. There the small buff cows of North Italy repose after their long voyage
or march, kneeling on the sandy ground or rubbing their sides against the wooden cross awry
with age and shorn of all its symbols. Lambs frisk among the boats; impudent kids nibble the
drooping ears of patient mules. Hinds in white jackets and knee-breeches made of skins, lead
shaggy rams and fiercely bearded goats, ready to butt at every barking dog, and always seeking
opportunities of flight. Farmers and parish priests in black petticoats feel the cattle and
dispute about the price, or whet their bargains with a draught of wine. Meanwhile the nets
are brought on shore glittering with the fry of sardines, which are cooked like whitebait,
with cuttlefish--amorphous objects stretching shiny feelers on the hot dry sand--and prickly
purple eggs of the sea-urchin. Women go about their labour through the throng, some carrying
stones upon their heads, or unloading boats and bearing planks of wood in single file, two
marching side by side beneath one load of lime, others scarcely visible under a stack of oats,
another with her baby in its cradle fast asleep.

San Remo has an elder brother among the hills, which is called San Romolo, after one of the
old bishops of Genoa. Who San Remo was is buried in remote antiquity; but his town has prospered,
while of San Romolo nothing remains but a ruined hill-convent among pine-trees. The old convent
is worth visiting. Its road carries you into the heart of the sierra which surrounds San Remo,
a hill-country something like the Jura, undulating and green to the very top with maritime
pines and pinasters. Riding up, you hear all manner of Alpine sounds; brawling streams, tinkling
cowbells, and herdsmen calling to each other on the slopes. Beneath you lies San Remo, scarcely
visible; and over it the great sea rises ever so far into the sky, until the white sails hang
in air, and cloud and sea-line melt into each other indistinguishably. Spanish chestnuts surround
the monastery with bright blue gentians, hepaticas, forget-me-nots, and primroses about their
roots. The house itself is perched on a knoll with ample prospect to the sea and to the mountains,
very near to heaven, within a theatre of noble contemplations and soul-stirring thoughts. If
Mentone spoke to me of the poetry of Greek pastoral life, this convent speaks of mediæval monasticism--of
solitude with God, above, beneath, and all around, of silence and repose from agitating cares,
of continuity in prayer, and changelessness of daily life. Some precepts of the Imitatio came
into my mind: 'Be never wholly idle; read or write, pray or meditate, or work with diligence
for the common needs.' 'Praiseworthy is it for the religious man to go abroad but seldom, and
to seem to shun, and keep his eyes from men.' 'Sweet is the cell when it is often sought, but
if we gad about, it wearies us by its seclusion.' Then I thought of the monks so living in
this solitude; their cell windows looking across the valley to the sea, through summer and
winter, under sun and stars. Then would they read or write, what long melodious hours! or would
they pray, what stations on the pine-clad hills! or would they toil, what terraces to build
and plant with corn, what flowers to tend, what cows to milk and pasture, what wood to cut,
what fir-cones to gather for the winter fire! or should they yearn for silence, silence from
their comrades of the solitude, what whispering galleries of God, where never human voice breaks
loudly, but winds and streams and lonely birds disturb the awful stillness! In such a hermitage
as this, only more wild, lived S. Francis of Assisi, among the Apennines.[7] It was there that
he learned the tongues of beasts and birds, and preached them sermons. Stretched for hours
motionless on the bare rocks, coloured like them and rough like them in his brown peasant's
serge, he prayed and meditated, saw the vision of Christ crucified, and planned his order to
regenerate a vicious age. So still he lay, so long, so like a stone, so gentle were his eyes,
so kind and low his voice, that the mice nibbled breadcrumbs from his wallet, lizards ran over
him, and larks sang to him in the air. There, too, in those long, solitary vigils, the Spirit
of God came upon him, and the spirit of Nature was even as God's Spirit, and he sang: 'Laudato
sia Dio mio Signore, con tutte le creature, specialmente messer lo frate sole; per suor luna,
e per le stelle; per frate vento e per l'aire, e nuvolo, e sereno e ogni tempo.' Half the value
of this hymn would be lost were we to forget how it was written, in what solitudes and mountains
far from men, or to ticket it with some abstract word like Pantheism. Pantheism it is not;
but an acknowledgment of that brotherhood, beneath the love of God, by which the sun and moon
and stars, and wind and air and cloud, and clearness and all weather, and all creatures, are
bound together with the soul of man.

Few, of course, were like S. Francis. Probably no monk of San Romolo was inspired with his
enthusiasm for humanity, or had his revelation of the Divine Spirit inherent in the world.
Still fewer can have felt the æsthetic charm of Nature but most vaguely. It was as much as
they could boast, if they kept steadily to the rule of their order, and attended to the concerns
each of his own soul. A terrible selfishness, if rightly considered; but one which accorded
with the delusion that this world is a cave of care, the other world a place of torture or
undying bliss, death the prime object of our meditation, and lifelong abandonment of our fellow-men
the highest mode of existence. Why, then, should monks, so persuaded of the riddle of the earth,
have placed themselves in scenes so beautiful? Why rose the Camaldolis and Chartreuses over
Europe? white convents on the brows of lofty hills, among the rustling boughs of Vallombrosas,
in the grassy meadows of Engelbergs,--always the eyries of Nature's lovers, men smitten with
the loveliness of earth? There is surely some meaning in these poetic stations.

Here is a sentence of the Imitatio which throws some light upon the hymn of S. Francis and
the sites of Benedictine monasteries, by explaining the value of natural beauty for monks who
spent their life in studying death: 'If thy heart were right, then would every creature be
to thee a mirror of life, and a book of holy doctrine. There is no creature so small and vile
that does not show forth the goodness of God.' With this sentence bound about their foreheads,
walked Fra Angelico and S. Francis. To men like them the mountain valleys and the skies, and
all that they contained, were full of deep significance. Though they reasoned 'de conditione
humanæ miseriæ,' and 'de contemptu mundi,' yet the whole world was a pageant of God's glory,
a testimony to His goodness. Their chastened senses, pure hearts, and simple wills were as
wings by which they soared above the things of earth, and sent the music of their souls aloft
with every other creature in the symphony of praise. To them, as to Blake, the sun was no mere
blazing disc or ball, but 'an innumerable company of the heavenly host singing, "Holy, holy,
holy is the Lord God Almighty."' To them the winds were brothers, and the streams were sisters--brethren
in common dependence upon God their Father, brethren in common consecration to His service,
brethren by blood, brethren by vows of holiness. Unquestioning faith rendered this world no
puzzle; they overlooked the things of sense because the spiritual things were ever present,
and as clear as day. Yet did they not forget that spiritual things are symbolised by things
of sense; and so the smallest herb of grass was vital to their tranquil contemplations. We
who have lost sight of the invisible world, who set our affections more on things of earth,
fancy that because these monks despised the world, and did not write about its landscapes,
therefore they were dead to its beauty. This is mere vanity: the mountains, stars, seas, fields,
and living things were only swallowed up in the one thought of God, and made subordinate to
the awfulness of human destinies. We to whom hills are hills, and seas are seas, and stars
are ponderable quantities, speak, write, and reason of them as of objects interesting in themselves.
The monks were less ostensibly concerned about such things, because they only found in them
the vestibules and symbols of a hidden mystery.

The contrast between the Greek and mediæval modes of regarding Nature is not a little remarkable.
Both Greeks and monks, judged by nineteenth-century standards, were unobservant of natural
beauties. They make but brief and general remarks upon landscapes and the like. The [Greek:
pontiôn te kumatôn anêrithmon gelasma] is very rare. But the Greeks stopped at the threshold
of Nature; the forces they found there, the gods, were inherent in Nature, and distinct. They
did not, like the monks, place one spiritual power, omnipotent and omnipresent, above all,
and see in Nature lessons of Divine government. We ourselves having somewhat overstrained the
latter point of view, are now apt to return vaguely to Greek fancies. Perhaps, too, we talk
so much about scenery because it is scenery to us, and the life has gone out of it.

I cannot leave the Cornice without one word about a place which lies between Mentone and San
Remo. Bordighera has a beauty which is quite distinct from both. Palms are its chief characteristics.
They lean against the garden walls, and feather the wells outside the town, where women come
with brazen pitchers to draw water. In some of the marshy tangles of the plain, they spring
from a thick undergrowth of spiky leaves, and rear their tall aërial arms against the deep
blue background of the sea or darker purple of the distant hills. White pigeons fly about among
their branches, and the air is loud with cooings and with rustlings, and the hoarser croaking
of innumerable frogs. Then, in the olive-groves that stretch along the level shore, are labyrinths
of rare and curious plants, painted tulips and white periwinkles, flinging their light of blossoms
and dark glossy leaves down the swift channels of the brawling streams. On each side of the
rivulets they grow, like sister cataracts of flowers instead of spray. At night fresh stars
come out along the coast, beneath the stars of heaven; for you can see the lamps of Ventimiglia
and Mentone and Monaco, and, far away, the lighthouses upon the promontories of Antibes and
the Estrelles. At dawn, a vision of Corsica grows from the sea. The island lies eighty miles
away, but one can trace the dark strip of irregular peaks glowing amid the gold and purple
of the rising sun. If the air is clear and bright, the snows and overvaulting clouds which
crown its mountains shine all day, and glitter like an apparition in the bright blue sky. 'Phantom
fair,' half raised above the sea, it stands, as unreal and transparent as the moon when seen
in April sunlight, yet not to be confounded with the shape of any cloud. If Mentone speaks
of Greek legends, and San Romolo restores the monastic past, we feel ourselves at Bordighera
transported to the East; and lying under its tall palms can fancy ourselves at Tyre or Daphne,
or in the gardens of a Moslem prince.

    Note.--Dec. 1873. My old impressions are renewed and confirmed
    by a third visit, after seven years, to this coast. For purely
    idyllic loveliness, the Cornice is surpassed by nothing in
    the South. A very few spots in Sicily, the road between
    Castellammare and Amalfi, and the island of Corfu, are its
    only rivals in this style of scenery. From Cannes to Sestri is
    one continuous line of exquisitely modulated landscape beauty,
    which can only be fully appreciated by travellers in carriage
    or on foot.

       *       *       *       *       *

AJACCIO

It generally happens that visitors to Ajaccio pass over from the Cornice coast, leaving Nice
at night, and waking about sunrise to find themselves beneath the frowning mountains of Corsica.
The difference between the scenery of the island and the shores which they have left is very
striking. Instead of the rocky mountains of the Cornice, intolerably dry and barren at their
summits, but covered at their base with villages and ancient towns and olive-fields, Corsica
presents a scene of solitary and peculiar grandeur. The highest mountain-tops are covered with
snow, and beneath the snow-level to the sea they are as green as Irish or as English hills,
but nearly uninhabited and uncultivated. Valleys of almost Alpine verdure are succeeded by
tracts of chestnut wood and scattered pines, or deep and flowery brushwood--the 'maquis' of
Corsica, which yields shelter to its traditional outlaws and bandits. Yet upon these hillsides
there are hardly any signs of life; the whole country seems abandoned to primeval wildness
and the majesty of desolation. Nothing can possibly be more unlike the smiling Riviera, every
square mile of which is cultivated like a garden, and every valley and bay dotted over with
white villages. After steaming for a few hours along this savage coast, the rocks which guard
the entrance to the bay of Ajaccio, murderous-looking teeth and needles ominously christened
Sanguinari, are passed, and we enter the splendid land-locked harbour, on the northern shore
of which Ajaccio is built. About three centuries ago the town, which used to occupy the extreme
or eastern end of the bay, was removed to a more healthy point upon the northern coast, so
that Ajaccio is quite a modern city. Visitors who expect to find in it the picturesqueness
of Genoa or San Remo, or even of Mentone, will be sadly disappointed. It is simply a healthy,
well-appointed town of recent date, the chief merits of which are, that it has wide streets,
and is free, externally at least, from the filth and rubbish of most southern seaports.

But if Ajaccio itself is not picturesque, the scenery which it commands, and in the heart of
which it lies, is of the most magnificent. The bay of Ajaccio resembles a vast Italian lake--a
Lago Maggiore, with greater space between the mountains and the shore. From the snow-peaks
of the interior, huge granite crystals clothed in white, to the southern extremity of the bay,
peak succeeds peak and ridge rises behind ridge in a line of wonderful variety and beauty.
The atmospheric changes of light and shadow, cloud and colour, on this upland country, are
as subtle and as various as those which lend their beauty to the scenery of the lakes, while
the sea below is blue and rarely troubled. One could never get tired with looking at this view.
Morning and evening add new charms to its sublimity and beauty. In the early morning Monte
d'Oro sparkles like a Monte Rosa with its fresh snow, and the whole inferior range puts on
the crystal blueness of dawn among the Alps. In the evening, violet and purple tints and the
golden glow of Italian sunset lend a different lustre to the fairyland. In fact, the beauties
of Switzerland and Italy are curiously blended in this landscape.

In soil and vegetation the country round Ajaccio differs much from the Cornice. There are very
few olive-trees, nor is the cultivated ground backed up so immediately by stony mountains;
but between the seashore and the hills there is plenty of space for pasture-land, and orchards
of apricot and peach-trees, and orange gardens. This undulating champaign, green with meadows
and watered with clear streams, is very refreshing to the eyes of Northern people, who may
have wearied of the bareness and greyness of Nice or Mentone. It is traversed by excellent
roads, recently constructed on a plan of the French Government, which intersect the country
in all directions, and offer an infinite variety of rides or drives to visitors. The broken
granite of which these roads are made is very pleasant for riding over. Most of the hills through
which they strike, after starting from Ajaccio, are clothed with a thick brushwood of box,
ilex, lentisk, arbutus, and laurustinus, which stretches down irregularly into vineyards, olive-gardens,
and meadows. It is, indeed, the native growth of the island; for wherever a piece of ground
is left untilled, the macchi grow up, and the scent of their multitudinous aromatic blossoms
is so strong that it may be smelt miles out at sea. Napoleon, at S. Helena, referred to this
fragrance when he said that he should know Corsica blindfold by the smell of its soil. Occasional
woods of holm oak make darker patches on the landscape, and a few pines fringe the side of
enclosure walls or towers. The prickly pear runs riot in and out among the hedges and upon
the walls, diversifying the colours of the landscape with its strange grey-green masses and
unwieldy fans. In spring, when peach and almond trees are in blossom, and when the roadside
is starred with asphodels, this country is most beautiful in its gladness. The macchi blaze
with cistus flowers of red and silver. Golden broom mixes with the dark purple of the great
French lavender, and over the whole mass of blossom wave plumes of Mediterranean heath and
sweet-scented yellow coronilla. Under the stems of the ilex peep cyclamens, pink and sweet;
the hedgerows are a tangle of vetches, convolvuluses, lupines, orchises, and alliums, with
here and there a purple iris. It would be difficult to describe all the rare and lovely plants
which are found here in a profusion that surpasses even the flower-gardens of the Cornice,
and reminds one of the most favoured Alpine valleys in their early spring.

Since the French occupied Corsica they have done much for the island by improving its harbours
and making good roads, and endeavouring to mitigate the ferocity of the people. But they have
many things to contend against, and Corsica is still behind the other provinces of France.
The people are idle, haughty, umbrageous, fiery, quarrelsome, fond of gipsy life, and retentive
through generations of old feuds and prejudices to an almost inconceivable extent. Then the
nature of the country itself offers serious obstacles to its proper colonisation and cultivation.
The savage state of the island and its internal feuds have disposed the Corsicans to quit the
seaboard for their mountain villages and fortresses, so that the great plains at the foot of
the hills are unwholesome for want of tillage and drainage. Again, the mountains themselves
have in many parts been stripped of their forests, and converted into mere wildernesses of
macchi stretching up and down their slopes for miles and miles of useless desolation. Another
impediment to proper cultivation is found in the old habit of what is called free pasturage.
The highland shepherds are allowed by the national custom to drive down their flocks and herds
to the lowlands during the winter, so that fences are broken, young crops are browsed over
and trampled down, and agriculture becomes a mere impossibility. The last and chief difficulty
against which the French have had to contend, and up to this time with apparent success, is
brigandage. The Corsican system of brigandage is so very different from that of the Italians,
Sicilians, and Greeks, that a word may be said about its peculiar character. In the first place,
it has nothing at all to do with robbery and thieving. The Corsican bandit took to a free life
among the macchi, not for the sake of supporting himself by lawless depredation, but because
he had put himself under a legal and social ban by murdering some one in obedience to the strict
code of honour of his country. His victim may have been the hereditary foe of his house for
generations, or else the newly made enemy of yesterday. But in either case, if he had killed
him fairly, after a due notification of his intention to do so, he was held to have fulfilled
a duty rather than to have committed a crime. He then betook himself to the dense tangles of
evergreens which I have described, where he lived upon the charity of countryfolk and shepherds.
In the eyes of those simple people it was a sacred duty to relieve the necessities of the outlaws,
and to guard them from the bloodhounds of justice. There was scarcely a respectable family
in Corsica who had not one or more of its members thus alla campagna, as it was euphemistically
styled. The Corsicans themselves have attributed this miserable state of things to two principal
causes. The first of these was the ancient bad government of the island: under its Genoese
rulers no justice was administered, and private vengeance for homicide or insult became a necessary
consequence among the haughty and warlike families of the mountain villages. Secondly, the
Corsicans have been from time immemorial accustomed to wear arms in everyday life. They used
to sit at their house doors and pace the streets with musket, pistol, dagger, and cartouch-box
on their persons; and on the most trivial occasion of merriment or enthusiasm they would discharge
their firearms. This habit gave a bloody termination to many quarrels, which might have ended
more peaceably had the parties been unarmed; and so the seeds of vendetta were constantly being
sown. Statistics published by the French Government present a hideous picture of the state
of bloodshed in Corsica even during this century. In one period of thirty years (between 1821
and 1850) there were 4319 murders in the island. Almost every man was watching for his neighbour's
life, or seeking how to save his own; and agriculture and commerce were neglected for this
grisly game of hide-and-seek. In 1853 the French began to take strong measures, and, under
the Prefect Thuillier, they hunted the bandits from the macchi, killing between 200 and 300
of them. At the same time an edict was promulgated against bearing arms. It is forbidden to
sell the old Corsican stiletto in the shops, and no one may carry a gun, even for sporting
purposes, unless he obtains a special licence. These licences, moreover, are only granted for
short and precisely measured periods.

In order to appreciate the stern and gloomy character of the Corsicans, it is necessary to
leave the smiling gardens of Ajaccio, and to visit some of the more distant mountain villages--Vico,
Cavro, Bastelica, or Bocognano, any of which may easily be reached from the capital. Immediately
after quitting the seaboard, we enter a country austere in its simplicity, solemn without relief,
yet dignified by its majesty and by the sense of freedom it inspires. As we approach the mountains,
the macchi become taller, feathering man-high above the road, and stretching far away upon
the hills. Gigantic masses of granite, shaped like buttresses and bastions, seem to guard the
approaches to these hills; while, looking backward over the green plain, the sea lies smiling
in a haze of blue among the rocky horns and misty headlands of the coast. There is a stateliness
about the abrupt inclination of these granite slopes, rising from their frowning portals by
sharp arêtes to the snows piled on their summits, which contrasts in a strange way with the
softness and beauty of the mingling sea and plain beneath. In no landscape are more various
qualities combined; in none are they so harmonised as to produce so strong a sense of majestic
freedom and severe power. Suppose that we are on the road to Corte, and have now reached Bocognano,
the first considerable village since we left Ajaccio. Bocognano might be chosen as typical
of Corsican hill-villages, with its narrow street, and tall tower-like houses of five or six
stories high, faced with rough granite, and pierced with the smallest windows and very narrow
doorways. These buildings have a mournful and desolate appearance. There is none of the grandeur
of antiquity about them; no sculptured arms or castellated turrets, or balconies or spacious
staircases, such as are common in the poorest towns of Italy. The signs of warlike occupation
which they offer, and their sinister aspect of vigilance, are thoroughly prosaic. They seem
to suggest a state of society in which feud and violence were systematised into routine. There
is no relief to the savage austerity of their forbidding aspect; no signs of wealth or household
comfort; no trace of art, no liveliness and gracefulness of architecture. Perched upon their
coigns of vantage, these villages seem always menacing, as if Saracen pirates, or Genoese marauders,
or bandits bent on vengeance, were still for ever on the watch. Forests of immensely old chestnut-trees
surround Bocognano on every side, so that you step from the village streets into the shade
of woods that seem to have remained untouched for centuries. The country-people support themselves
almost entirely upon the fruit of these chestnuts; and there is a large department of Corsica
called Castagniccia, from the prevalence of these trees and the sustenance which the inhabitants
derive from them. Close by the village brawls a torrent, such as one may see in the Monte Rosa
valleys or the Apennines, but very rarely in Switzerland. It is of a pure green colour, absolutely
like Indian jade, foaming round the granite boulders, and gliding over smooth slabs of polished
stone, and eddying into still, deep pools fringed with fern. Monte d'Oro, one of the largest
mountains of Corsica, soars above, and from his snows the purest water, undefiled by glacier
mud or the débris of avalanches, melts away. Following the stream, we rise through the macchi
and the chestnut woods, which grow more sparely by degrees, until we reach the zone of beeches.
Here the scene seems suddenly transferred to the Pyrenees; for the road is carried along abrupt
slopes, thickly set with gigantic beech-trees, overgrown with pink and silver lichens. In the
early spring their last year's leaves are still crisp with hoar-frost; one morning's journey
has brought us from the summer of Ajaccio to winter on these heights, where no flowers are
visible but the pale hellebore and tiny lilac crocuses. Snow-drifts stretch by the roadside,
and one by one the pioneers of the vast pine-woods of the interior appear. A great portion
of the pine-forest (Pinus larix, or Corsican pine, not larch) between Bocognano and Corte had
recently been burned by accident when we passed by. Nothing could be more forlorn than the
black leafless stems and branches emerging from the snow. Some of these trees were mast-high,
and some mere saplings. Corte itself is built among the mountain fastnesses of the interior.
The snows and granite cliffs of Monte Rotondo overhang it to the north-west, while two fair
valleys lead downward from its eyrie to the eastern coast. The rock on which it stands rises
to a sharp point, sloping southward, and commanding the valleys of the Golo and the Tavignano.
Remembering that Corte was the old capital of Corsica, and the centre of General Paoli's government,
we are led to compare the town with Innsprück, Meran, or Grenoble. In point of scenery and
situation it is hardly second to any of these mountain-girdled cities; but its poverty and
bareness are scarcely less striking than those of Bocognano.

The whole Corsican character, with its stern love of justice, its furious revengefulness and
wild passion for freedom, seems to be illustrated by the peculiar elements of grandeur and
desolation in this landscape. When we traverse the forest of Vico or the rocky pasture-lands
of Niolo, the history of the Corsican national heroes, Giudice della Rocca and Sampiero, becomes
intelligible, nor do we fail to understand some of the mysterious attraction which led the
more daring spirits of the island to prefer a free life among the macchi and pine-woods to
placid lawful occupations in farms and villages. The lives of the two men whom I have mentioned
are so prominent in Corsican history, and are so often still upon the lips of the common people,
that it may be well to sketch their outlines in the foreground of the Salvator Rosa landscape
just described. Giudice was the governor of Corsica, as lieutenant for the Pisans, at the end
of the thirteenth century. At that time the island belonged to the republic of Pisa, but the
Genoese were encroaching on them by land and sea, and the whole life of their brave champion
was spent in a desperate struggle with the invaders, until at last he died, old, blind, and
in prison, at the command of his savage foes. Giudice was the title which the Pisans usually
conferred upon their governor, and Della Rocca deserved it by right of his own inexorable love
of justice. Indeed, justice seems to have been with him a passion, swallowing up all other
feelings of his nature. All the stories which are told of him turn upon this point in his character;
and though they may not be strictly true, they illustrate the stern virtues for which he was
celebrated among the Corsicans, and show what kind of men this harsh and gloomy nation loved
to celebrate as heroes. This is not the place either to criticise these legends or to recount
them at full length. The most famous and the most characteristic may, however, be briefly told.
On one occasion, after a victory over the Genoese, he sent a message that the captives in his
hands should be released if their wives and sisters came to sue for them. The Genoese ladies
embarked, and arrived in Corsica, and to Giudice's nephew was intrusted the duty of fulfilling
his uncle's promise. In the course of executing his commission, the youth was so smitten with
the beauty of one of the women that he dishonoured her. Thereupon Giudice had him at once put
to death. Another story shows the Spartan justice of this hero in a less savage light. He was
passing by a cowherd's cottage, when he heard some young calves bleating. On inquiring what
distressed them, he was told that the calves had not enough milk to drink after the farm people
had been served. Then Giudice made it a law that the calves throughout the land should take
their fill before the cows were milked.

Sampiero belongs to a later period of Corsican history. After a long course of misgovernment
the Genoese rule had become unbearable. There was no pretence of administering justice, and
private vengeance had full sway in the island. The sufferings of the nation were so great that
the time had come for a new judge or saviour to rise among them. Sampiero was the son of obscure
parents who lived at Bastelica. But his abilities very soon declared themselves, and made a
way for him in the world. He spent his youth in the armies of the Medici and of the French
Francis, gaining great renown as a brave soldier. Bayard became his friend, and Francis made
him captain of his Corsican bands. But Sampiero did not forget the wrongs of his native land
while thus on foreign service. He resolved, if possible, to undermine the power of Genoa, and
spent the whole of his manhood and old age in one long struggle with their great captain, Stephen
Doria. Of his stern patriotism and Roman severity of virtue the following story is a terrible
illustration. Sampiero, though a man of mean birth, had married an heiress of the noble Corsican
house of the Ornani. His wife, Vannina, was a woman of timid and flexible nature, who, though
devoted to her husband, fell into the snares of his enemies. During his absence on an embassy
to Algiers the Genoese induced her to leave her home at Marseilles and to seek refuge in their
city, persuading her that this step would secure the safety of her child. She was starting
on her journey when a friend of Sampiero arrested her, and brought her back to Aix, in Provence.
Sampiero, when he heard of these events, hurried to France, and was received by a relative
of his, who hinted that he had known of Vannina's projected flight. 'E tu hai taciuto?' was
Sampiero's only answer, accompanied by a stroke of his poignard that killed the lukewarm cousin.
Sampiero now brought his wife from Aix to Marseilles, preserving the most absolute silence
on the way, and there, on entering his house, he killed her with his own hand. It is said that
he loved Vannina passionately; and when she was dead, he caused her to be buried with magnificence
in the church of S. Francis. Like Giudice, Sampiero fell at last a prey to treachery. The murder
of Vannina had made the Ornani his deadly foes. In order to avenge her blood, they played into
the hands of the Genoese, and laid a plot by which the noblest of the Corsicans was brought
to death. First, they gained over to their scheme a monk of Bastelica, called Ambrogio, and
Sampiero's own squire and shield-bearer, Vittolo. By means of these men, in whom he trusted,
he was drawn defenceless and unattended into a deeply wooded ravine near Cavro, not very far
from his birthplace, where the Ornani and their Genoese troops surrounded him. Sampiero fired
his pistols in vain, for Vittolo had loaded them with the shot downwards. Then he drew his
sword, and began to lay about him, when the same Vittolo, the Judas, stabbed him from behind,
and the old lion fell dead by his friend's hand. Sampiero was sixty-nine when he died, in the
year 1567. It is satisfactory to know that the Corsicans have called traitors and foes to their
country Vittoli for ever. These two examples of Corsican patriots are enough; we need not add
to theirs the history of Paoli--a milder and more humane, but scarcely less heroic leader.
Paoli, however, in the hour of Corsica's extremest peril, retired to England, and died in philosophic
exile. Neither Giudice nor Sampiero would have acted thus. The more forlorn the hope, the more
they struggled.

Among the old Corsican customs which are fast dying out, but which still linger in the remote
valleys of Niolo and Vico, is the vócero, or funeral chant, improvised by women at funerals
over the bodies of the dead. Nothing illustrates the ferocious temper and savage passions of
the race better than these vóceri, many of which have been written down and preserved. Most
of them are songs of vengeance and imprecation, mingled with hyperbolical laments and utterances
of extravagant grief, poured forth by wives and sisters at the side of murdered husbands and
brothers. The women who sing them seem to have lost all milk of human kindness, and to have
exchanged the virtues of their sex for Spartan fortitude and the rage of furies. While we read
their turbid lines we are carried in imagination to one of the cheerless houses of Bastelica
or Bocognano, overshadowed by its mournful chestnut-tree, on which the blood of the murdered
man is yet red. The gridata, or wake, is assembled in a dark room. On the wooden board, called
tola, the corpse lies stretched; and round it are women, veiled in the blue-black mantle of
Corsican costume, moaning and rocking themselves upon their chairs. The pasto or conforto,
food supplied for mourners, stands upon a side table, and round the room are men with savage
eyes and bristling beards, armed to the teeth, keen for vengeance. The dead man's musket and
pocket-pistol lie beside him, and his bloody shirt is hung up at his head. Suddenly, the silence,
hitherto only disturbed by suppressed groans and muttered curses, is broken by a sharp cry.
A woman rises: it is the sister of the dead man; she seizes his shirt, and holding it aloft
with Mænad gestures and frantic screams, gives rhythmic utterance to her grief and rage. 'I
was spinning, when I heard a great noise: it was a gunshot, which went into my heart, and seemed
a voice that cried, "Run, thy brother is dying." I ran into the room above; I took the blow
into my breast; I said, "Now he is dead, there is nothing to give me comfort. Who will undertake
thy vengeance? When I show thy shirt, who will vow to let his beard grow till the murderer
is slain? Who is there left to do it? A mother near her death? A sister? Of all our race there
is only left a woman, without kin, poor, orphan, and a girl. Yet, O my brother! never fear.
For thy vengeance thy sister is enough!

  '"Ma per fà la to bindetta,
  Sta siguru, basta anch ella!

Give me the pistol; I will shoulder the gun; I will away to the hills. My brother, heart of
thy sister, thou shalt be avenged!"' A vócero declaimed upon the bier of Giammatteo and Pasquale,
two cousins, by the sister of the former, is still fiercer and more energetic in its malediction.
This Erinnys of revenge prays Christ and all the saints to extirpate the murderer's whole race,
to shrivel it up till it passes from the earth. Then, with a sudden and vehement transition
to the pathos of her own sorrow, she exclaims:--

  'Halla mai bista nissunu
  Tumbà l'omi pe li canti?'

It appears from these words that Giammatteo's enemies had killed him because they were jealous
of his skill in singing. Shortly after, she curses the curate of the village, a kinsman of
the murderer, for refusing to toll the funeral bells; and at last, all other threads of rage
and sorrow being twined and knotted into one, she gives loose to her raging thirst for blood:
'If only I had a son, to train like a sleuth-hound, that he might track the murderer! Oh, if
I had a son! Oh, if I had a lad!' Her words seem to choke her, and she swoons, and remains
for a short time insensible. When the Bacchante of revenge awakes, it is with milder feelings
in her heart: 'O brother mine, Matteo! art thou sleeping? Here I will rest with thee and weep
till daybreak.' It is rare to find in literature so crude and intense an expression of fiery
hatred as these untranslatable vóceri present. The emotion is so simple and so strong that
it becomes sublime by mere force, and affects us with a strange pathos when contrasted with
the tender affection conveyed in such terms of endearment as 'my dove,' 'my flower,' 'my pheasant,'
'my bright painted orange,' addressed to the dead. In the vóceri it often happens that there
are several interlocutors: one friend questions and another answers; or a kinswoman of the
murderer attempts to justify the deed, and is overwhelmed with deadly imprecations. Passionate
appeals are made to the corpse: 'Arise! Do you not hear the women cry? Stand up. Show your
wounds, and let the fountains of your blood flow! Alas! he is dead; he sleeps; he cannot hear!'
Then they turn again to tears and curses, feeling that no help or comfort can come from the
clay-cold form. The intensity of grief finds strange language for its utterance. A girl, mourning
over her father, cries:--

  'Mi l'hannu crucifissatu
  Cume Ghiesu Cristu in croce.'

Once only, in Viale's collection, does any friend of the dead remember mercy. It is an old
woman, who points to the crucifix above the bier.

But all the vóceri are not so murderous. Several are composed for girls who died unwedded and
before their time, by their mothers or companions. The language of these laments is far more
tender and ornate. They praise the gentle virtues and beauty of the girl, her piety and helpful
household ways. The most affecting of these dirges is that which celebrates the death of Romana,
daughter of Dariola Danesi. Here is a pretty picture of the girl: 'Among the best and fairest
maidens you were like a rose among flowers, like the moon among stars; so far more lovely were
you than the loveliest. The youths in your presence were like lighted torches, but full of
reverence; you were courteous to all, but with none familiar. In church they gazed at you,
but you looked at none of them; and after mass you said, "Mother, let us go." Oh! who will
console me for your loss? Why did the Lord so much desire you? But now you rest in heaven,
all joy and smiles; for the world was not worthy of so fair a face. Oh, how far more beautiful
will Paradise be now!' Then follows a piteous picture of the old bereaved mother, to whom a
year will seem a thousand years, who will wander among relatives without affection, neighbours
without love; and who, when sickness comes, will have no one to give her a drop of water, or
to wipe the sweat from her brow, or to hold her hand in death. Yet all that is left for her
is to wait and pray for the end, that she may join again her darling.

But it is time to return to Ajaccio itself. At present the attractions and ornaments of the
town consist of a good public library, Cardinal Fesch's large but indifferent collection of
pictures, two monuments erected to Napoleon, and Napoleon's house. It will always be the chief
pride of Ajaccio that she gave birth to the great emperor. Close to the harbour, in a public
square by the sea-beach, stands an equestrian statue of the conqueror, surrounded by his four
brothers on foot. They are all attired in Roman fashion, and are turned seaward, to the west,
as if to symbolise the emigration of this family to subdue Europe. There is something ludicrous
and forlorn in the stiffness of the group--something even pathetic, when we think how Napoleon
gazed seaward from another island, no longer on horseback, no longer laurel-crowned, an unthroned,
unseated conqueror, on S. Helena. His father's house stands close by. An old Italian waiting-woman,
who had been long in the service of the Murats, keeps it and shows it. She has the manners
of a lady, and can tell many stories of the various members of the Buonaparte family. Those
who fancy that Napoleon was born in a mean dwelling of poor parents will be surprised to find
so much space and elegance in these apartments. Of course his family was not rich by comparison
with the riches of French or English nobles. But for Corsicans they were well-to-do, and their
house has an air of antique dignity. The chairs of the entrance-saloon have been literally
stripped of their coverings by enthusiastic visitors; the horse-hair stuffing underneath protrudes
itself with a sort of comic pride, as if protesting that it came to be so tattered in an honourable
service. Some of the furniture seems new; but many old presses, inlaid with marbles, agates,
and lapis-lazuli, such as Italian families preserve for generations, have an air of respectable
antiquity about them. Nor is there any doubt that the young Napoleon led his minuets beneath
the stiff girandoles of the formal dancing-room. There, too, in a dark back chamber, is the
bed in which he was born. At its foot is a photograph of the Prince Imperial sent by the Empress
Eugénie, who, when she visited the room, wept much pianse molto (to use the old lady's phrase)--at
seeing the place where such lofty destinies began. On the wall of the same room is a portrait
of Napoleon himself as the young general of the republic--with the citizen's unkempt hair,
the fierce fire of the Revolution in his eyes, a frown upon his forehead, lips compressed,
and quivering nostrils; also one of his mother, the pastille of a handsome woman, with Napoleonic
eyes and brows and nose, but with a vacant simpering mouth. Perhaps the provincial artist knew
not how to seize the expression of this feature, the most difficult to draw. For we cannot
fancy that Letizia had lips without the firmness or the fulness of a majestic nature.

The whole first story of this house belonged to the Buonaparte family. The windows look out
partly on a little court and partly on narrow streets. It was, no doubt, the memory of this
home that made Napoleon, when emperor, design schemes for the good of Corsica--schemes that
might have brought him more honour than many conquests, but which he had no time or leisure
to carry out. On S. Helena his mind often reverted to them, and he would speak of the gummy
odours of the macchi wafted from the hillsides to the seashore.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONTE GENEROSO

The long hot days of Italian summer were settling down on plain and country when, in the last
week of May, we travelled northward from Florence and Bologna seeking coolness. That was very
hard to find in Lombardy. The days were long and sultry, the nights short, without a respite
from the heat. Milan seemed a furnace, though in the Duomo and the narrow shady streets there
was a twilight darkness which at least looked cool. Long may it be before the northern spirit
of improvement has taught the Italians to despise the wisdom of their forefathers, who built
those sombre streets of palaces with overhanging eaves, that, almost meeting, form a shelter
from the fiercest sun. The lake country was even worse than the towns; the sunlight lay all
day asleep upon the shining waters, and no breeze came to stir their surface or to lift the
tepid veil of haze, through which the stony mountains, with their yet unmelted patches of winter
snow, glared as if in mockery of coolness.

Then we heard of a new inn, which had just been built by an enterprising Italian doctor below
the very top of Monte Generoso. There was a picture of it in the hotel at Cadenabbia, but this
gave but little idea of any particular beauty. A big square house, with many windows, and the
usual ladies on mules, and guides with alpenstocks, advancing towards it, and some round bushes
growing near, was all it showed. Yet there hung the real Monte Generoso above our heads, and
we thought it must be cooler on its height than by the lake-shore. To find coolness was the
great point with us just then. Moreover, some one talked of the wonderful plants that grew
among its rocks, and of its grassy slopes enamelled with such flowers as make our cottage gardens
at home gay in summer, not to speak of others rarer and peculiar to the region of the Southern
Alps. Indeed, the Generoso has a name for flowers, and it deserves it, as we presently found.

This mountain is fitted by its position for commanding one of the finest views in the whole
range of the Lombard Alps. A glance at the map shows that. Standing out pre-eminent among the
chain of lower hills to which it belongs, the lakes of Lugano and Como with their long arms
enclose it on three sides, while on the fourth the plain of Lombardy with its many cities,
its rich pasture-lands and cornfields intersected by winding river-courses and straight interminable
roads, advances to its very foot. No place could be better chosen for surveying that contrasted
scene of plain and mountain, which forms the great attraction of the outlying buttresses of
the central Alpine mass. The superiority of the Monte Generoso to any of the similar eminences
on the northern outskirts of Switzerland is great. In richness of colour, in picturesqueness
of suggestion, in sublimity and breadth of prospect, its advantages are incontestable. The
reasons for this superiority are obvious. On the Italian side the transition from mountain
to plain is far more abrupt; the atmosphere being clearer, a larger sweep of distance is within
our vision; again, the sunlight blazes all day long upon the very front and forehead of the
distant Alpine chain, instead of merely slanting along it, as it does upon the northern side.

From Mendrisio, the village at the foot of the mountain, an easy mule-path leads to the hotel,
winding first through English-looking hollow lanes with real hedges, which are rare in this
country, and English primroses beneath them. Then comes a forest region of luxuriant chestnut-trees,
giants with pink boles just bursting into late leafage, yellow and tender, but too thin as
yet for shade. A little higher up, the chestnuts are displaced by wild laburnums bending under
their weight of flowers. The graceful branches meet above our heads, sweeping their long tassels
against our faces as we ride beneath them, while the air for a good mile is full of fragrance.
It is strange to be reminded in this blooming labyrinth of the dusty suburb roads and villa
gardens of London. The laburnum is pleasant enough in S. John's Wood or the Regent's Park in
May--a tame domesticated thing of brightness amid smoke and dust. But it is another joy to
see it flourishing in its own home, clothing acres of the mountain-side in a very splendour
of spring-colour, mingling its paler blossoms with the golden broom of our own hills, and with
the silver of the hawthorn and wild cherry. Deep beds of lilies-of-the-valley grow everywhere
beneath the trees; and in the meadows purple columbines, white asphodels, the Alpine spiræa,
tall, with feathery leaves, blue scabious, golden hawkweeds, turkscap lilies, and, better than
all, the exquisite narcissus poeticus, with its crimson-tipped cup, and the pure pale lilies
of San Bruno, are crowded in a maze of dazzling brightness. Higher up the laburnums disappear,
and flaunting crimson peonies gleam here and there upon the rocks, until at length the gentians
and white ranunculuses of the higher Alps displace the less hardy flowers of Italy.

About an hour below the summit of the mountain we came upon the inn, a large clean building,
with scanty furniture and snowy wooden floors, guiltless of carpets. It is big enough to hold
about a hundred guests; and Doctor Pasta, who built it, a native of Mendrisio, was gifted either
with much faith or with a real prophetic instinct.[8] Anyhow he deserves commendation for his
spirit of enterprise. As yet the house is little known to English travellers: it is mostly
frequented by Italians from Milan, Novara, and other cities of the plain, who call it the Italian
Righi, and come to it, as cockneys go to Richmond, for noisy picnic excursions, or at most
for a few weeks' villeggiatura in the summer heats. When we were there in May the season had
scarcely begun, and the only inmates besides ourselves were a large party from Milan, ladies
and gentlemen in holiday guise, who came, stayed one night, climbed the peak at sunrise, and
departed amid jokes and shouting and half-childish play, very unlike the doings of a similar
party in sober England. After that the stillness of nature descended on the mountain, and the
sun shone day after day upon that great view which seemed created only for ourselves. And what
a view it was! The plain stretching up to the high horizon, where a misty range of pink cirrus-clouds
alone marked the line where earth ended and the sky began, was islanded with cities and villages
innumerable, basking in the hazy shimmering heat. Milan, seen through the doctor's telescope,
displayed its Duomo perfect as a microscopic shell, with all its exquisite fretwork, and Napoleon's
arch of triumph surmounted by the four tiny horses, as in a fairy's dream. Far off, long silver
lines marked the lazy course of Po and Ticino, while little lakes like Varese and the lower
end of Maggiore spread themselves out, connecting the mountains with the plain. Five minutes'
walk from the hotel brought us to a ridge where the precipice fell suddenly and almost sheer
over one arm of Lugano Lake. Sullenly outstretched asleep it lay beneath us, coloured with
the tints of fluor-spar, or with the changeful green and azure of a peacock's breast. The depth
appeared immeasurable. San Salvadore had receded into insignificance: the houses and churches
and villas of Lugano bordered the lake-shore with an uneven line of whiteness. And over all
there rested a blue mist of twilight and of haze, contrasting with the clearness of the peaks
above. It was sunset when we first came here; and, wave beyond wave, the purple Italian hills
tossed their crested summits to the foot of a range of stormy clouds that shrouded the high
Alps. Behind the clouds was sunset, clear and golden; but the mountains had put on their mantle
for the night, and the hem of their garment was all we were to see. And yet--over the edge
of the topmost ridge of cloud, what was that long hard line of black, too solid and immovable
for cloud, rising into four sharp needles clear and well defined? Surely it must be the familiar
outline of Monte Rosa itself, the form which every one who loves the Alps knows well by heart,
which picture-lovers know from Ruskin's woodcut in the 'Modern Painters.' For a moment only
the vision stayed: then clouds swept over it again, and from the place where the empress of
the Alps had been, a pillar of mist shaped like an angel's wing, purple and tipped with gold,
shot up against the pale green sky. That cloud-world was a pageant in itself, as grand and
more gorgeous perhaps than the mountains would have been. Deep down through the hollows of
the Simplon a thunderstorm was driving; and we saw forked flashes once and again, as in a distant
world, lighting up the valleys for a moment, and leaving the darkness blacker behind them as
the storm blurred out the landscape forty miles away. Darkness was coming to us too, though
our sky was clear and the stars were shining brightly. At our feet the earth was folding itself
to sleep; the plain was wholly lost; little islands of white mist had formed themselves, and
settled down upon the lakes and on their marshy estuaries; the birds were hushed; the gentian-cups
were filling to the brim with dew. Night had descended on the mountain and the plain; the show
was over.

The dawn was whitening in the east next morning, when we again scrambled through the dwarf
beechwood to the precipice above the lake. Like an ink-blot it lay, unruffled, slumbering sadly.
Broad sheets of vapour brooded on the plain, telling of miasma and fever, of which we on the
mountain, in the pure cool air, knew nothing. The Alps were all there now--cold, unreal, stretching
like a phantom line of snowy peaks, from the sharp pyramids of Monte Viso and the Grivola in
the west to the distant Bernina and the Ortler in the east. Supreme among them towered Monte
Rosa--queenly, triumphant, gazing down in proud pre-eminence, as she does when seen from any
point of the Italian plain. There is no mountain like her. Mont Blanc himself is scarcely so
regal; and she seems to know it, for even the clouds sweep humbled round her base, girdling
her at most, but leaving her crown clear and free. Now, however, there were no clouds to be
seen in all the sky. The mountains had a strange unshriven look, as if waiting to be blessed.
Above them, in the cold grey air, hung a low black arch of shadow, the shadow of the bulk of
the huge earth, which still concealed the sun. Slowly, slowly this dark line sank lower, till,
one by one, at last, the peaks caught first a pale pink flush; then a sudden golden glory flashed
from one to the other, as they leapt joyfully into life. It is a supreme moment this first
burst of life and light over the sleeping world, as one can only see it on rare days and in
rare places like the Monte Generoso. The earth--enough of it at least for us to picture to
ourselves the whole--lies at our feet; and we feel as the Saviour might have felt, when from
the top of that high mountain He beheld the kingdoms of the world and all the glory of them.
Strangely and solemnly may we image to our fancy the lives that are being lived down in those
cities of the plain: how many are waking at this very moment to toil and a painful weariness,
to sorrow, or to 'that unrest which men miscall delight;' while we upon our mountain buttress,
suspended in mid-heaven and for a while removed from daily cares, are drinking in the beauty
of the world that God has made so fair and wonderful. From this same eyrie, only a few years
ago, the hostile armies of France, Italy, and Austria might have been watched moving in dim
masses across the plains, for the possession of which they were to clash in mortal fight at
Solferino and Magenta. All is peaceful now. It is hard to picture the waving cornfields trodden
down, the burning villages and ransacked vineyards, all the horrors of real war to which that
fertile plain has been so often the prey. But now these memories of

  Old, unhappy, far-off things,
  And battles long ago,

do but add a calm and beauty to the radiant scene that lies before us. And the thoughts which
it suggests, the images with which it stores our mind, are not without their noblest uses.
The glory of the world sinks deeper into our shallow souls than we well know; and the spirit
of its splendour is always ready to revisit us on dark and dreary days at home with an unspeakable
refreshment. Even as I write, I seem to see the golden glow sweeping in broad waves over the
purple hills nearer and nearer, till the lake brightens at our feet, and the windows of Lugano
flash with sunlight, and little boats creep forth across the water like spiders on a pond,
leaving an arrowy track of light upon the green behind them, while Monte Salvadore with its
tiny chapel and a patch of the further landscape are still kept in darkness by the shadow of
the Generoso itself. The birds wake into song as the sun's light comes; cuckoo answers cuckoo
from ridge to ridge; dogs bark; and even the sounds of human life rise up to us: children's
voices and the murmurs of the market-place ascending faintly from the many villages hidden
among the chestnut-trees beneath our feet; while the creaking of a cart we can but just see
slowly crawling along the straight road by the lake, is heard at intervals.

The full beauty of the sunrise is but brief. Already the low lakelike mists we saw last night
have risen and spread, and shaken themselves out into masses of summer clouds, which, floating
upward, threaten to envelop us upon our vantage-ground. Meanwhile they form a changeful sea
below, blotting out the plain, surging up into the valleys with the movement of a billowy tide,
attacking the lower heights like the advance-guard of a besieging army, but daring not as yet
to invade the cold and solemn solitudes of the snowy Alps. These, too, in time, when the sun's
heat has grown strongest, will be folded in their midday pall of sheltering vapour.

The very summit of Monte Generoso must not be left without a word of notice. The path to it
is as easy as the sheep-walks on an English down, though cut along grass-slopes descending
at a perilously sharp angle. At the top the view is much the same, as far as the grand features
go, as that which is commanded from the cliff by the hotel. But the rocks here are crowded
with rare Alpine flowers--delicate golden auriculas with powdery leaves and stems, pale yellow
cowslips, imperial purple saxifrages, soldanellas at the edge of lingering patches of the winter
snow, blue gentians, crocuses, and the frail, rosy-tipped ranunculus, called glacialis. Their
blooming time is brief. When summer comes the mountain will be bare and burned, like all Italian
hills. The Generoso is a very dry mountain, silent and solemn from its want of streams. There
is no sound of falling waters on its crags; no musical rivulets flow down its sides, led carefully
along the slopes, as in Switzerland, by the peasants, to keep their hay-crops green and gladden
the thirsty turf throughout the heat and drought of summer. The soil is a Jurassic limestone:
the rain penetrates the porous rock, and sinks through cracks and fissures, to reappear above
the base of the mountain in a full-grown stream. This is a defect in the Generoso, as much
to be regretted as the want of shade upon its higher pastures. Here, as elsewhere in Piedmont,
the forests are cut for charcoal; the beech-scrub, which covers large tracts of the hills,
never having the chance of growing into trees much higher than a man. It is this which makes
an Italian mountain at a distance look woolly, like a sheep's back. Among the brushwood, however,
lilies-of-the-valley and Solomon's seals delight to grow; and the league-long beds of wild
strawberries prove that when the laburnums have faded, the mountain will become a garden of
feasting.

It was on the crest of Monte Generoso, late one afternoon in May, that we saw a sight of great
beauty. The sun had yet about an hour before it sank behind the peaks of Monte Rosa, and the
sky was clear, except for a few white clouds that floated across the plain of Lombardy. Then
as we sat upon the crags, tufted with soldanellas and auriculas, we could see a fleecy vapour
gliding upward from the hollows of the mountain, very thin and pale, yet dense enough to blot
the landscape to the south and east from sight. It rose with an imperceptible motion, as the
Oceanides might have soared from the sea to comfort Prometheus in the tragedy of Æschylus.
Already the sun had touched its upper edge with gold, and we were expecting to be enveloped
in a mist; when suddenly upon the outspread sheet before us there appeared two forms, larger
than life, yet not gigantic, surrounded with haloes of such tempered iridescence as the moon
half hidden by a summer cloud is wont to make. They were the glorified figures of ourselves;
and what we did, the phantoms mocked, rising or bowing, or spreading wide their arms. Some
scarce-felt breeze prevented the vapour from passing across the ridge to westward, though it
still rose from beneath, and kept fading away into thin air above our heads. Therefore the
vision lasted as long as the sun stayed yet above the Alps; and the images with their aureoles
shrank and dilated with the undulations of the mist. I could not but think of that old formula
for an anthropomorphic Deity--'the Brocken-spectre of the human spirit projected on the mists
of the Non-ego.' Even like those cloud-phantoms are the gods made in the image of man, who
have been worshipped through successive ages of the world, gods dowered with like passions
to those of the races who have crouched before them, gods cruel and malignant and lustful,
jealous and noble and just, radiant or gloomy, the counterparts of men upon a vast and shadowy
scale. But here another question rose. If the gods that men have made and ignorantly worshipped
be really but glorified copies of their own souls, where is the sun in this parallel? Without
the sun's rays the mists of Monte Generoso could have shown, no shadowy forms. Without some
other power than the mind of man, could men have fashioned for themselves those ideals that
they named their gods? Unseen by Greek, or Norseman, or Hindoo, the potent force by which alone
they could externalise their image, existed outside them, independent of their thought. Nor
does the trite epigram touch the surface of the real mystery. The sun, the human beings on
the mountain, and the mists are all parts of one material universe: the transient phenomenon
we witnessed was but the effect of a chance combination. Is, then, the anthropomorphic God
as momentary and as accidental in the system of the world as that vapoury spectre? The God
in whom we live and move and have our being must be far more all-pervasive, more incognisable
by the souls of men, who doubt not for one moment of His presence and His power. Except for
purposes of rhetoric the metaphor that seemed so clever fails. Nor, when once such thoughts
have been stirred in us by such a sight, can we do better than repeat Goethe's sublime profession
of a philosophic mysticism. This translation I made one morning on the Pasterze Gletscher beneath
the spires of the Gross Glockner:--

  To Him who from eternity, self-stirred,
  Himself hath made by His creative word!
  To Him, supreme, who causeth Faith to be,
  Trust, Hope, Love, Power, and endless Energy!
  To Him, who, seek to name Him as we will,
  Unknown within Himself abideth still!

  Strain ear and eye, till sight and sense be dim;
  Thou'lt find but faint similitudes of Him:
  Yea, and thy spirit in her flight of flame
  Still strives to gauge the symbol and the name:
  Charmed and compelled thou climb'st from height to height,
  And round thy path the world shines wondrous bright;
  Time, Space, and Size, and Distance cease to be,
  And every step is fresh infinity.
  What were the God who sat outside to scan
  The spheres that 'neath His finger circling ran?
  God dwells within, and moves the world and moulds,
  Himself and Nature in one form enfolds:
  Thus all that lives in Him and breathes and is,
  Shall ne'er His puissance, ne'er His spirit miss.

  The soul of man, too, is an universe:
  Whence follows it that race with race concurs
  In naming all it knows of good and true
  God,--yea, its own God; and with homage due
  Surrenders to His sway both earth and heaven;
  Fears Him, and loves, where place for love is given.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOMBARD VIGNETTES

ON THE SUPERGA

This is the chord of Lombard colouring in May. The most tragic situation has here again been
alchemised by Luini's magic into a pure idyll, without the loss of power, without the sacrifice
of edification. The armour is quite plain. So is the surcoat. The blues detach themselves too
much, perhaps, from the rest of the colouring; and that is all a devil's advocate could say.
He and S. Michael are painted in fresco over the south portcullis of the Castle. Yet this impression
was but the prelude to his smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMO AND IL MEDEGHINO

To which of the Italian lakes should the palm of beauty be accorded? This question may not
unfrequently have moved the idle minds of travellers, wandering through that loveliest region
from Orta to Garda--from little Orta, with her gemlike island, rosy granite crags, and chestnut-covered
swards above the Colma; to Garda, bluest of all waters, surveyed in majestic length from Desenzano
or poetic Sirmione, a silvery sleeping haze of hill and cloud and heaven and clear waves bathed
in modulated azure. And between these extreme points what varied lovelinesses lie in broad
Maggiore, winding Como, Varese with the laughing face upturned to heaven, Lugano overshadowed
by the crested crags of Monte Generoso, and Iseo far withdrawn among the rocky Alps! He who
loves immense space, cloud shadows slowly sailing over purple slopes, island gardens, distant
glimpses of snow-capped mountains, breadth, air, immensity, and flooding sunlight, will choose
Maggiore. But scarcely has he cast his vote for this, the Juno of the divine rivals, when he
remembers the triple lovelinesses of the Larian Aphrodite, disclosed in all their placid grace
from Villa Serbelloni;--the green blue of the waters, clear as glass, opaque through depth;
the millefleurs roses clambering into cypresses by Cadenabbia; the laburnums hanging their
yellow clusters from the clefts of Sasso Eancio; the oleander arcades of Varenna; the wild
white limestone crags of San Martiuo, which he has climbed to feast his eyes with the perspective,
magical, serene, Lionardesquely perfect, of the distant gates of Adda. Then while this modern
Paris is yet doubting, perhaps a thought may cross his mind of sterner, solitary Lake Iseo--the
Pallas of the three. She offers her own attractions. The sublimity of Monte Adamello, dominating
Lovere and all the lowland like Hesiod's hill of Virtue reared aloft above the plain of common
life, has charms to tempt heroic lovers. Nor can Varese be neglected. In some picturesque respects,
Varese is the most perfect of the lakes. Those long lines of swelling hills that lead into
the level, yield an infinite series of placid foregrounds, pleasant to the eye by contrast
with the dominant snow-summits, from Monte Viso to Monte Leone: the sky is limitless to southward;
the low horizons are broken by bell-towers and farmhouses; while armaments of clouds are ever
rolling in the interval of Alps and plain.

Of a truth, to decide which is the queen of the Italian lakes, is but an infinita quæstio;
and the mere raising of it is folly. Still each lover of the beautiful may give his vote; and
mine, like that of shepherd Paris, is already given to the Larian goddess. Words fail in attempting
to set forth charms which have to be enjoyed, or can at best but lightly be touched with most
consummate tact, even as great poets have already touched on Como Lake--from Virgil with his
'Lari maxume,' to Tennyson and the Italian Manzoni. The threshold of the shrine is, however,
less consecrated ground; and the Cathedral of Como may form a vestibule to the temple where
silence is more golden than the speech of a describer.

The Cathedral of Como is perhaps the most perfect building in Italy for illustrating the fusion
of Gothic and Renaissance styles, both of a good type and exquisite in their sobriety. The
Gothic ends with the nave. The noble transepts and the choir, each terminating in a rounded
tribune of the same dimensions, are carried out in a simple and decorous Bramantesque manner.
The transition from the one style to the other is managed so felicitously, and the sympathies
between them are so well developed, that there is no discord. What we here call Gothic, is
conceived in a truly southern spirit, without fantastic efflorescence or imaginative complexity
of multiplied parts; while the Renaissance manner, as applied by Tommaso Rodari, has not yet
stiffened into the lifeless neo-Latinism of the later cinquecento: it is still distinguished
by delicate inventiveness, and beautiful subordination of decorative detail to architectural
effect. Under these happy conditions we feel that the Gothic of the nave, with its superior
severity and sombreness, dilates into the lucid harmonies of choir and transepts like a flower
unfolding. In the one the mind is tuned to inner meditation and religious awe; in the other
the worshipper passes into a temple of the clear explicit faith--as an initiated neophyte might
be received into the meaning of the mysteries.

After the collapse of the Roman Empire the district of Como seems to have maintained more vividly
than the rest of Northern Italy some memory of classic art. Magistri Comacini is a title frequently
inscribed upon deeds and charters of the earlier middle ages, as synonymous with sculptors
and architects. This fact may help to account for the purity and beauty of the Duomo. It is
the work of a race in which the tradition of delicate artistic invention had never been wholly
interrupted. To Tommaso Rodari and his brothers, Bernardino and Jacopo, the world owes this
sympathetic fusion of the Gothic and the Bramantesque styles; and theirs too is the sculpture
with which the Duomo is so richly decorated. They were natives of Maroggia, a village near
Mendrisio, beneath the crests of Monte Generoso, close to Campione, which sent so many able
craftsmen out into the world between the years 1300 and 1500. Indeed the name of Campionesi
would probably have been given to the Rodari, had they left their native province for service
in Eastern Lombardy. The body of the Duomo had been finished when Tommaso Rodari was appointed
master of the fabric in 1487. To complete the work by the addition of a tribune was his duty.
He prepared a wooden model and exposed it, after the fashion of those times, for criticism
in his bottega; and the usual difference of opinion arose among the citizens of Como concerning
its merits. Cristoforo Solaro, surnamed Il Gobbo, was called in to advise. It may be remembered
that when Michelangelo first placed his Pietà in S. Peter's, rumour gave it to this celebrated
Lombard sculptor, and the Florentine was constrained to set his own signature upon the marble.
The same Solaro carved the monument of Beatrice Sforza in the Certosa of Pavia. He was indeed
in all points competent to criticise or to confirm the design of his fellow-craftsman. Il Gobbo
disapproved of the proportions chosen by Rodari, and ordered a new model to be made; but after
much discussion, and some concessions on the part of Rodari, who is said to have increased
the number of the windows and lightened the orders of his model, the work was finally entrusted
to the master of Maroggia.

Not less creditable than the general design of the tribune is the sculpture executed by the
brothers. The north side door is a master-work of early Renaissance chiselling, combining mixed
Christian and classical motives with a wealth of floral ornament. Inside, over the same door,
is a procession of children seeming to represent the Triumph of Bacchus, with perhaps some
Christian symbolism. Opposite, above the south door, is a frieze of fighting Tritons--horsed
sea deities pounding one another with bunches of fish and splashing the water, in Mantegna's
spirit. The doorways of the façade are decorated with the same rare workmanship; and the canopies,
supported by naked fauns and slender twisted figures, under which the two Plinies are seated,
may be reckoned among the supreme achievements of delicate Renaissance sculpture. The Plinies
are not like the work of the same master. They are older, stiffer, and more Gothic. The chief
interest attaching to them is that they are habited and seated after the fashion of Humanists.
This consecration of the two Pagan saints beside the portals of the Christian temple is truly
characteristic of the fifteenth century in Italy. Beneath, are little basreliefs representing
scenes from their respective lives, in the style of carved predellas on the altars of saints.

The whole church is peopled with detached statues, among which a Sebastian in the Chapel of
the Madonna must be mentioned as singularly beautiful. It is a finely modelled figure, with
the full life and exuberant adolescence of Venetian inspiration. A peculiar feature of the
external architecture is the series of Atlantes, bearing on their shoulders urns, heads of
lions, and other devices, and standing on brackets round the upper cornice just below the roof.
They are of all sorts; young and old, male and female; classically nude, and boldly outlined.
These water-conduits, the work of Bernardo Bianco and Francesco Rusca, illustrate the departure
of the earlier Renaissance from the Gothic style. They are gargoyles; but they have lost the
grotesque element. At the same time the sculptor, while discarding Gothic tradition, has not
betaken himself yet to a servile imitation of the antique. He has used invention, and substituted
for grinning dragons' heads something wild and bizarre of his own in harmony with classic taste.

The pictures in the chapels, chiefly by Luini and Ferrari--an idyllic Nativity, with faun-like
shepherds and choirs of angels--a sumptuous adoration of the Magi--a jewelled Sposalizio with
abundance of golden hair flowing over draperies of green and crimson--will interest those who
are as yet unfamiliar with Lombard painting. Yet their architectural setting, perhaps, is superior
to their intrinsic merit as works of art; and their chief value consists in adding rare dim
flakes of colour to the cool light of the lovely church. More curious, because less easily
matched, is the gilded woodwork above the altar of S. Abondio, attributed to a German carver,
but executed for the most part in the purest Luinesque manner. The pose of the enthroned Madonna,
the type and gesture of S. Catherine, and the treatment of the Pietà above, are thoroughly
Lombard, showing how Luini's ideal of beauty could be expressed in carving. Some of the choicest
figures in the Monastero Maggiore at Milan seem to have descended from the walls and stepped
into their tabernacles on this altar. Yet the style is not maintained consistently. In the
reliefs illustrating the life of S. Abondio we miss Luini's childlike grace, and find instead
a something that reminds us of Donatello--a seeking after the classical in dress, carriage,
and grouping of accessory figures. It may have been that the carver, recognising Luini's defective
composition, and finding nothing in that master's manner adapted to the spirit of relief, had
the good taste to render what was Luinesquely lovely in his female figures, and to fall back
on a severer model for his basreliefs.

The building-fund for the Duomo was raised in Como and its districts. Boxes were placed in
all the churches to receive the alms of those who wished to aid the work. The clergy begged
in Lent, and preached the duty of contributing on special days. Presents of lime and bricks
and other materials were thankfully received. Bishops, canons, and municipal magistrates were
expected to make costly gifts on taking office. Notaries, under penalty of paying 100 soldi
if they neglected their engagement, were obliged to persuade testators, cum bonis modis dulciter,
to inscribe the Duomo on their wills. Fines for various offences were voted to the building
by the city. Each new burgher paid a certain sum; while guilds and farmers of the taxes bought
monopolies and privileges at the price of yearly subsidies. A lottery was finally established
for the benefit of the fabric. Of course each payment to the good work carried with it spiritual
privileges; and so willingly did the people respond to the call of the Church, that during
the sixteenth century the sums subscribed amounted to 200,000 golden crowns. Among the most
munificent donators are mentioned the Marchese Giacomo Gallio, who bequeathed 290,000 lire,
and a Benzi, who gave 10,000 ducats.

While the people of Como were thus straining every nerve to complete a pious work, which at
the same time is one of the most perfect masterpieces of Italian art, their lovely lake was
turned into a pirate's stronghold, and its green waves stained with slaughter of conflicting
navies. So curious is this episode in the history of the Larian lake that it is worth while
to treat of it at some length. Moreover, the lives of few captains of adventure offer matter
more rich in picturesque details and more illustrative of their times than that of Gian Giacomo
de' Medici, the Larian corsair, long known and still remembered as Il Medeghino. He was born
in Milan in 1498, at the beginning of that darkest and most disastrous period of Italian history,
when the old fabric of social and political existence went to ruin under the impact of conflicting
foreign armies. He lived on until the year 1555, witnessing and taking part in the dismemberment
of the Milanese Duchy, playing a game of hazard at high stakes for his own profit with the
two last Sforzas, the Empire, the French, and the Swiss. At the beginning of the century, while
he was still a youth, the rich valley of the Valtelline, with Bormio and Chiavenna, had been
assigned to the Grisons. The Swiss Cantons at the same time had possessed themselves of Lugano
and Bellinzona. By these two acts of robbery the mountaineers tore a portion of its fairest
territory from the Duchy; and whoever ruled in Milan, whether a Sforza, or a Spanish viceroy,
or a French general, was impatient to recover the lost jewel of the ducal crown. So much has
to be premised, because the scene of our hero's romantic adventures was laid upon the borderland
between the Duchy and the Cantons. Intriguing at one time with the Duke of Milan, at another
with his foes the French or Spaniards, Il Medeghino found free scope for his peculiar genius
in a guerilla warfare, carried on with the avowed purpose of restoring the Valtelline to Milan.
To steer a plain course through that chaos of politics, in which the modern student, aided
by the calm clear lights of history and meditation, cannot find a clue, was of course impossible
for an adventurer whose one aim was to gratify his passions and exalt himself at the expense
of others. It is therefore of little use to seek motives of statecraft or of patriotism in
the conduct of Il Medeghino. He was a man shaped according to Machiavelli's standard of political
morality--self-reliant, using craft and force with cold indifference to moral ends, bent only
upon wringing for himself the largest share of this world's power for men who, like himself,
identified virtue with unflinching and immitigable egotism.

Il Medeghino's father was Bernardo de' Medici, a Lombard, who neither claimed nor could have
proved cousinship with the great Medicean family of Florence. His mother was Cecilia Serbelloni.
The boy was educated in the fashionable humanistic studies, nourishing his young imagination
with the tales of Roman heroes. The first exploit by which he proved his virtù, was the murder
of a man he hated, at the age of sixteen. This 'virile act of vengeance,' as it was called,
brought him into trouble, and forced him to choose the congenial profession of arms. At a time
when violence and vigour passed for manliness, a spirited assassination formed the best of
introductions to the captains of mixed mercenary troops. Il Medeghino rose in favour with his
generals, helped to reinstate Francesco Sforza in his capital, and, returning himself to Milan,
inflicted severe vengeance on the enemies who had driven him to exile. It was his ambition,
at this early period of his life, to be made governor of the Castle of Musso, on the Lake of
Como. While fighting in the neighbourhood, he had observed the unrivalled capacities for defence
presented by its site; and some pre-vision of his future destinies now urged him to acquire
it, as the basis for the free marauding life he planned. The headland of Musso lies about halfway
between Gravedona and Menaggio, on the right shore of the Lake of Como. Planted on a pedestal
of rock, and surmounted by a sheer cliff, there then stood a very ancient tower, commanding
this promontory on the side of the land. Between it and the water the Visconti, in more recent
days, had built a square fort; and the headland had been further strengthened by the addition
of connecting walls and bastions pierced for cannon. Combining precipitous cliffs, strong towers,
and easy access from the lake below, this fortress of Musso was exactly the fit station for
a pirate. So long as he kept the command of the lake, he had little to fear from land attacks,
and had a splendid basis for aggressive operations. Il Medeghino made his request to the Duke
of Milan; but the foxlike Sforza would not grant him a plain answer. At length he hinted that
if his suitor chose to rid him of a troublesome subject, the noble and popular Astore Visconti,
he should receive Musso for payment. Crimes of bloodshed and treason sat lightly on the adventurer's
conscience. In a short time he compassed the young Visconti's death, and claimed his reward.
The Duke despatched him thereupon to Musso, with open letters to the governor, commanding him
to yield the castle to the bearer. Private advice, also entrusted to Il Medeghino, bade the
governor, on the contrary, cut the bearer's throat. The young man, who had the sense to read
the Duke's letter, destroyed the secret document, and presented the other, or, as one version
of the story goes, forged a ducal order in his own favour.[12] At any rate, the castle was
placed in his hands; and affecting to know nothing of the Duke's intended treachery, Il Medeghino
took possession of it as a trusted servant of the ducal crown.

As soon as he was settled in his castle, the freebooter devoted all his energies to rendering
it still more impregnable by strengthening the walls and breaking the cliffs into more horrid
precipices. In this work he was assisted by his numerous friends and followers; for Musso rapidly
became, like ancient Rome, an asylum for the ruffians and outlaws of neighbouring provinces.
It is even said that his sisters, Clarina and Margherita, rendered efficient aid with manual
labour. The mention of Clarina's name justifies a parenthetical side-glance at Il Medeghino's
pedigree, which will serve to illustrate the exceptional conditions of Italian society during
this age. She was married to the Count Giberto Borromeo, and became the mother of the pious
Carlo Borromeo, whose shrine is still adored at Milan in the Duomo. Il Medeghino's brother,
Giovan Angelo, rose to the Papacy, assuming the title of Pius IV. Thus this murderous marauder
was the brother of a Pope and the uncle of a Saint; and these three persons of one family embraced
the various degrees and typified the several characters which flourished with peculiar lustre
in Renaissance Italy--the captain of adventure soaked in blood, the churchman unrivalled for
intrigue, and the saint aflame with holiest enthusiasm. Il Medeghino was short of stature,
but well made and powerful; broad-chested; with a penetrating voice and winning countenance.
He dressed simply, like one of his own soldiers; slept but little; was insensible to carnal
pleasure; and though he knew how to win the affection of his men by jovial speech, he maintained
strict discipline in his little army. In all points he was an ideal bandit chief, never happy
unless fighting or planning campaigns, inflexible of purpose, bold and cunning in the execution
of his schemes, cruel to his enemies, generous to his followers, sacrificing all considerations,
human and divine, to the one aim of his life, self-aggrandisement by force and intrigue. He
knew well how to make himself both feared and respected. One instance of his dealing will suffice.
A gentleman of Bellano, Polidoro Boldoni, in return to his advances, coldly replied that he
cared for neither amity nor relationship with thieves and robbers; whereupon Il Medeghino extirpated
his family, almost to a man.

Soon after his settlement in Musso, Il Medeghino, wishing to secure the gratitude of the Duke,
his master, began war with the Grisons. From Coire, from the Engadine, and from Davos, the
Alpine pikemen were now pouring down to swell the troops of Francis I.; and their road lay
through the Lake of Como. Il Medeghino burned all the boats upon the lake, except those which
he took into his own service, and thus made himself master of the water passage. He then swept
the 'length of lordly Lario' from Colico to Lecco, harrying the villages upon the shore, and
cutting off the bands of journeying Switzers at his pleasure. Not content with this guerilla,
he made a descent upon the territory of the Trepievi, and pushed far up towards Chiavenna,
forcing the Grisons to recall their troops from the Milanese. These acts of prowess convinced
the Duke that he had found a strong ally in the pirate chief. When Francis I. continued his
attacks upon the Duchy, and the Grisons still adhered to their French paymaster, the Sforza
formally invested Gian Giacomo de' Medici with the perpetual governorship of Musso, the Lake
of Como, and as much as he could wrest from the Grisons above the lake. Furnished now with
a just title for his depredations, Il Medeghino undertook the siege of Chiavenna. That town
is the key to the valleys of the Splügen and Bregaglia. Strongly fortified and well situated
for defence, the burghers of the Grisons well knew that upon its possession depended their
power in the Italian valleys. To take it by assault was impossible, Il Medeghino used craft,
entered the castle, and soon had the city at his disposition. Nor did he lose time in sweeping
Val Bregaglia. The news of this conquest recalled the Switzers from the Duchy; and as they
hurried homeward just before the battle of Pavia, it may be affirmed that Gian Giacomo de'
Medici was instrumental in the defeat and capture of the French King. The mountaineers had
no great difficulty in dislodging their pirate enemy from Chiavenna, the Valtelline, and Val
Bregaglia. But he retained his hold on the Trepievi, occupied the Valsassina, took Porlezza,
and established himself still more strongly in Musso as the corsair monarch of the lake.

The tyranny of the Sforzas in Milan was fast going to pieces between France and Spain; and
in 1526 the Marquis of Pescara occupied the capital in the name of Charles V. The Duke, meanwhile,
remained a prisoner in his Castello. Il Medeghino was now without a master; for he refused
to acknowledge the Spaniards, preferring to watch events and build his own power on the ruins
of the dukedom. At the head of 4,000 men, recruited from the lakes and neighbouring valleys,
he swept the country far and wide, and occupied the rich champaign of the Brianza. He was now
lord of the lakes of Como and Lugano, and absolute in Lecco and the adjoining valleys. The
town of Como itself alone belonged to the Spaniards; and even Como was blockaded by the navy
of the corsair. Il Medeghino had a force of seven big ships, with three sails and forty-eight
oars, bristling with guns and carrying marines. His flagship was a large brigantine, manned
by picked rowers, from the mast of which floated the red banner with the golden palle of the
Medicean arms. Besides these larger vessels, he commanded a flotilla of countless small boats.
It is clear that to reckon with him was a necessity. If he could not be put down with force,
he might be bought over by concessions. The Spaniards adopted the second course, and Il Medeghino,
judging that the cause of the Sforza family was desperate, determined in 1528 to attach himself
to the Empire. Charles V. invested him with the Castle of Musso and the larger part of Como
Lake, including the town of Lecco. He now assumed the titles of Marquis of Musso and Count
of Lecco: and in order to prove his sovereignty before the world, he coined money with his
own name and devices.

It will be observed that Gian Giacomo de' Medici had hitherto acted with a single-hearted view
to his own interests. At the age of thirty he had raised himself from nothing to a principality,
which, though petty, might compare with many of some name in Italy--with Carpi, for example,
or Mirandola, or Camerino. Nor did he mean to remain quiet in the prime of life. He regarded
Como Lake as the mere basis for more arduous undertakings. Therefore, when the whirligig of
events restored Francesco Sforza to his duchy in 1529, Il Medeghino refused to obey his old
lord. Pretending to move under the Duke's orders, but really acting for himself alone, he proceeded
to attack his ancient enemies, the Grisons. By fraud and force he worked his way into their
territory, seized Morbegno, and overran the Valtelline. He was destined, however, to receive
a serious check. Twelve thousand Switzers rose against him on the one hand, on the other the
Duke of Milan sent a force by land and water to subdue his rebel subject, while Alessandro
Gonzaga marched upon his castles in the Brianza. He was thus assailed by formidable forces
from three quarters, converging upon the Lake of Como, and driving him to his chosen element,
the water. Hastily quitting the Valtelline, he fell back to the Castle of Mandello on the lake,
collected his navy, and engaged the ducal ships in a battle off Menaggio. In this battle he
was worsted. But he did not lose his courage. From Bellagio, from Varenna, from Bellano he
drove forth his enemies, rolled the cannon of the Switzers into the lake, regained Lecco, defeated
the troops of Alessandro Gonzaga, and took the Duke of Mantua prisoner. Had he but held Como,
it is probable that he might have obtained such terms at this time as would have consolidated
his tyranny. The town of Como, however, now belonged to the Duke of Milan, and formed an excellent
basis for operations against the pirate. Overmatched, with an exhausted treasury and broken
forces, Il Medeghino was at last compelled to give in. Yet he retired with all the honours
of war. In exchange for Musso and the lake, the Duke agreed to give him 35,000 golden crowns,
together with the feud and marquisate of Marignano. A free pardon was promised not only to
himself and his brothers, but to all his followers; and the Duke further undertook to transport
his artillery and munitions of war at his own expense to Marignano. Having concluded this treaty
under the auspices of Charles V. and his lieutenant, Il Medeghino, in March 1532, set sail
from Musso, and turned his back upon the lake for ever. The Switzers immediately destroyed
the towers, forts, walls, and bastions of the Musso promontory, leaving in the midst of their
ruins the little chapel of S. Eufemia.

Gian Giacomo de' Medici, henceforth known to Europe as the Marquis of Marignano, now took service
under Spain; and through the favour of Anton de Leyva, Viceroy for the Duchy, rose to the rank
of Field Marshal. When the Marquis del Vasto succeeded to the Spanish governorship of Milan
in 1536, he determined to gratify an old grudge against the ex-pirate, and, having invited
him to a banquet, made him prisoner. II Medeghino was not, however, destined to languish in
a dungeon. Princes and kings interested themselves in his fate. He was released, and journeyed
to the court of Charles V. in Spain. The Emperor received him kindly, and employed him first
in the Low Countries, where he helped to repress the burghers of Ghent, and at the siege of
Landrecy commanded the Spanish artillery against other Italian captains of adventure: for,
Italy being now dismembered and enslaved, her sons sought foreign service where they found
best pay and widest scope for martial science. Afterwards the Medici ruled Bohemia as Spanish
Viceroy; and then, as general of the league formed by the Duke of Florence, the Emperor, and
the Pope to repress the liberties of Tuscany, distinguished himself in that cruel war of extermination,
which turned the fair Contado of Siena into a poisonous Maremma. To the last Il Medeghino preserved
the instincts and the passions of a brigand chief. It was at this time that, acting for the
Grand Duke of Tuscany, he first claimed open kinship with the Medici of Florence. Heralds and
genealogists produced a pedigree, which seemed to authorise this pretension; he was recognised,
together with his brother, Pius IV., as an offshoot of the great house which had already given
Dukes to Florence, Kings to France, and two Popes to the Christian world. In the midst of all
this foreign service he never forgot his old dream of conquering the Valtelline; and in 1547
he made proposals to the Emperor for a new campaign against the Grisons. Charles V. did not
choose to engage in a war, the profits of which would have been inconsiderable for the master
of half the civilised world, and which might have proved troublesome by stirring up the tameless
Switzers. Il Medeghino was obliged to abandon a project cherished from the earliest dawn of
his adventurous manhood.

When Gian Giacomo died in 1555, his brother Battista succeeded to his claims upon Lecco and
the Trepievi. His monument, magnificent with five bronze figures, the masterpiece of Leone
Lioni, from Menaggio, Michelangelesque in style, and of consummate workmanship, still adorns
the Duomo of Milan. It stands close by the door that leads to the roof. This mausoleum, erected
to the memory of Gian Giacomo and his brother Gabrio, is said to have cost 7800 golden crowns.
On the occasion of the pirate's funeral the Senate of Milan put on mourning, and the whole
city followed the great robber, the hero of Renaissance virtù, to the grave.

Between the Cathedral of Como and the corsair Medeghino there is but a slight link. Yet so
extraordinary were the social circumstances of Renaissance Italy, that almost at every turn,
on her seaboard, in her cities, from her hill-tops, we are compelled to blend our admiration
for the loveliest and purest works of art amid the choicest scenes of nature with memories
of execrable crimes and lawless characters. Sometimes, as at Perugia, the nexus is but local.
At others, one single figure, like that of Cellini, unites both points of view in a romance
of unparalleled dramatic vividness. Or, again, beneath the vaults of the Certosa, near Pavia,
a masterpiece of the serenest beauty carries our thoughts perforce back to the hideous cruelties
and snake-like frauds of its despotic founder. This is the excuse for combining two such diverse
subjects in one study.

       *       *       *       *       *

CREMA AND THE CRUCIFIX

Few people visit Crema. It is a little country town of Lombardy, between Cremona and Treviglio,
with no historic memories but very misty ones belonging to the days of the Visconti dynasty.
On every side around the city walls stretch smiling vineyards and rich meadows, where the elms
are married to the mulberry-trees by long festoons of foliage hiding purple grapes, where the
sunflowers droop their heavy golden heads among tall stems of millet and gigantic maize, and
here and there a rice-crop ripens in the marshy loam. In vintage time the carts, drawn by their
white oxen, come creaking townward in the evening, laden with blue bunches. Down the long straight
roads, between rows of poplars, they creep on; and on the shafts beneath the pyramid of fruit
lie contadini stained with lees of wine. Far off across that 'waveless sea' of Lombardy, which
has been the battlefield of countless generations, rise the dim grey Alps, or else pearled
domes of thunder-clouds in gleaming masses over some tall solitary tower. Such backgrounds,
full of peace, suggestive of almost infinite distance, and dignified with colours of incomparable
depth and breadth, the Venetian painters loved. No landscape in Europe is more wonderful than
this--thrice wonderful in the vastness of its arching heavens, in the stillness of its level
plain, and in the bulwark of huge crested mountains, reared afar like bastions against the
northern sky. The little town is all alive in this September weather. At every corner of the
street, under rustling abeles and thick-foliaged planes, at the doors of palaces and in the
yards of inns, men, naked from the thighs downward, are treading the red must into vats and
tuns; while their mild-eyed oxen lie beneath them in the road, peaceably chewing the cud between
one journey to the vineyard and another. It must not be imagined that the scene of Alma Tadema's
'Roman Vintage,' or what we fondly picture to our fancy of the Athenian Lenaea, is repeated
in the streets of Crema. This modern treading of the wine-press is a very prosaic affair. The
town reeks with a sour smell of old casks and crushed grape-skins, and the men and women at
work bear no resemblance whatever to Bacchus and his crew. Yet even as it is, the Lombard vintage,
beneath floods of sunlight and a pure blue sky, is beautiful; and he who would fain make acquaintance
with Crema, should time his entry into the old town, if possible, on some still golden afternoon
of autumn. It is then, if ever, that he will learn to love the glowing brickwork of its churches
and the quaint terra-cotta traceries that form its chief artistic charm.

How the unique brick architecture of the Lombard cities took its origin--whether from the precepts
of Byzantine aliens in the earliest middle ages, or from the native instincts of a mixed race
composed of Gallic, Ligurian, Roman, and Teutonic elements, under the leadership of Longobardic
rulers--is a question for antiquarians to decide. There can, however, be no doubt that the
monuments of the Lombard style, as they now exist, are no less genuinely local, no less characteristic
of the country they adorn, no less indigenous to the soil they sprang from, than the Attic
colonnades of Mnesicles and Ictinus. What the marble quarries of Pentelicus were to the Athenian
builders, the clay beneath their feet was to those Lombard craftsmen. From it they fashioned
structures as enduring, towers as majestic, and cathedral aisles as solemn, as were ever wrought
from chiselled stone. There is a true sympathy between those buildings and the Lombard landscape,
which by itself might suffice to prove the originality of their almost unknown architects.
The rich colour of the baked clay--finely modulated from a purplish red, through russet, crimson,
pink, and orange, to pale yellow and dull grey--harmonises with the brilliant greenery of Lombard
vegetation and with the deep azure of the distant Alpine range. Reared aloft above the flat
expanse of plain, those square torroni, tapering into octagons and crowned with slender cones,
break the long sweeping lines and infinite horizons with a contrast that affords relief, and
yields a resting-place to tired eyes; while, far away, seen haply from some bridge above Ticino,
or some high-built palace loggia, they gleam like columns of pale rosy fire against the front
of mustering storm-clouds blue with rain. In that happy orchard of Italy, a pergola of vines
in leaf, a clump of green acacias, and a campanile soaring above its church roof, brought into
chance combination with the reaches of the plain and the dim mountain range, make up a picture
eloquent in its suggestive beauty.

Those ancient builders wrought cunningly with their material. The bricks are fashioned and
fixed to last for all time. Exposed to the icy winds of a Lombard winter, to the fierce fire
of a Lombard summer, and to the moist vapours of a Lombard autumn; neglected by unheeding generations;
with flowers clustering in their crannies, and birds nesting in their eaves, and mason-bees
filling the delicate network of their traceries--they still present angles as sharp as when
they were but finished, and joints as nice as when the mortar dried in the first months of
their building. This immunity from age and injury they owe partly to the imperishable nature
of baked clay; partly to the care of the artists who selected and mingled the right sorts of
earth, burned them with scrupulous attention, and fitted them together with a patience born
of loving service. Each member of the edifice was designed with a view to its ultimate place.
The proper curve was ascertained for cylindrical columns and for rounded arches. Larger bricks
were moulded for the supporting walls, and lesser pieces were adapted to the airy vaults and
lanterns. In the brickfield and the kiln the whole church was planned and wrought out in its
details, before the hands that made a unity of all these scattered elements were set to the
work of raising it in air. When they came to put the puzzle together, they laid each brick
against its neighbour, filling up the almost imperceptible interstices with liquid cement composed
of quicklime and fine sand in water. After five centuries the seams between the layers of bricks
that make the bell-tower of S. Gottardo at Milan, yield no point of vantage to the penknife
or the chisel.

Nor was it in their welding of the bricks alone that these craftsmen showed their science.
They were wont to enrich the surface with marble, sparingly but effectively employed--as in
those slender detached columns, which add such beauty to the octagon of S. Gottardo, or in
the string-courses of strange beasts and reptiles that adorn the church fronts of Pavia. They
called to their aid the mandorlato of Verona, supporting their porch pillars on the backs of
couchant lions, inserting polished slabs on their façades, and building huge sarcophagi into
their cloister alleys. Between terra-cotta and this marble of Verona there exists a deep and
delicate affinity. It took the name of mandorlato, I suppose, from a resemblance to almond
blossoms. But it is far from having the simple beauty of a single hue. Like all noble veined
stones, it passes by a series of modulations and gradations through a gamut of associated rather
than contrasted tints. Not the pink of the almond blossom only, but the creamy whiteness of
the almond kernel, and the dull yellow of the almond nut may be found in it; and yet these
colours are so blent and blurred to all-pervading mellowness, that nowhere is there any shock
of contrast or violence of a preponderating tone. The veins which run in labyrinths of crossing,
curving, and contorted lines all over its smooth surface add, no doubt, to this effect of unity.
The polish, lastly, which it takes, makes the mandorlato shine like a smile upon the sober
face of the brickwork: for, serviceable as terra-cotta is for nearly all artistic purposes,
it cannot reflect light or gain the illumination which comes from surface brightness.

What the clay can do almost better than any crystalline material, may be seen in the mouldings
so characteristic of Lombard architecture. Geometrical patterns of the rarest and most fanciful
device; scrolls of acanthus foliage, and traceries of tendrils; Cupids swinging in festoons
of vines; angels joining hands in dance, with fluttering skirts and windy hair, and mouths
that symbol singing; grave faces of old men and beautiful profiles of maidens leaning from
medallions; wide-winged genii filling the spandrils of cloister arches, and cherubs clustered
in the rondure of rose-windows--ornaments like these, wrought from the plastic clay, and adapted
with true taste to the requirements of the architecture, are familiar to every one who has
studied the church front of Crema, the cloisters of the Certosa, the courts of the Ospedale
Maggiore at Milan, or the public palace of Cremona.

If the mandorlato gives a smile to those majestic Lombard buildings, the terra-cotta decorations
add the element of life and movement. The thought of the artist in its first freshness and
vivacity is felt in them. They have all the spontaneity of improvisation, the seductive melody
of unpremeditated music. Moulding the supple earth with 'hand obedient to the brain,' the plasticatore
has impressed his most fugitive dreams of beauty on it without effort; and what it cost him
but a few fatigueless hours to fashion, the steady heat of the furnace has gifted with imperishable
life. Such work, no doubt, has the defects of its qualities. As there are few difficulties
to overcome, it suffers from a fatal facility--nec pluteum coedit nec demorsos sapit ungues.
It is therefore apt to be unequal, touching at times the highest point of inspiration, as in
the angels of Guccio at Perugia, and sinking not unfrequently into the commonplace of easygoing
triviality, as in the common floral traceries of Milanese windows. But it is never laboured,
never pedantic, never dulled by the painful effort to subdue an obstinate material to the artist's
will. If marble is required to develop the strength of the few supreme sculptors, terra-cotta
saves intact the fancies of a crowd of lesser men.

When we reflect that all the force, solemnity, and beauty of the Lombard buildings was evoked
from clay, we learn from them this lesson: that the thought of man needs neither precious material
nor yet stubborn substance for the production of enduring masterpieces. The red earth was enough
for God when He made man in His own image; and mud dried in the sun suffices for the artist,
who is next to God in his creative faculty--since non merita nome di creatore se non Iddio
ed il poeta. After all, what is more everlasting than terra-cotta? The hobnails of the boys
who ran across the brickfields in the Roman town of Silchester, may still be seen, mingled
with the impress of the feet of dogs and hoofs of goats, in the tiles discovered there. Such
traces might serve as a metaphor for the footfall of artistic genius, when the form-giver has
stamped his thought upon the moist clay, and fire has made that imprint permanent.

Of all these Lombard edifices, none is more beautiful than the Cathedral of Crema, with its
delicately finished campanile, built of choicely tinted yellow bricks, and ending in a lantern
of the gracefullest, most airily capricious fancy. This bell-tower does not display the gigantic
force of Cremona's famous torrazzo, shooting 396 feet into blue ether from the city square;
nor can it rival the octagon of S. Gottardo for warmth of hue. Yet it has a character of elegance,
combined with boldness of invention, that justifies the citizens of Crema in their pride. It
is unique; and he who has not seen it does not know the whole resources of the Lombard style.
The façade of the Cathedral displays that peculiar blending of Byzantine or Romanesque round
arches with Gothic details in the windows, and with the acute angle of the central pitch, which
forms the characteristic quality of the late trecento Lombard manner. In its combination of
purity and richness it corresponds to the best age of decorated work in English Gothic. What,
however, strikes a Northern observer is the strange detachment of this elaborate façade from
the main structure of the church. Like a frontispiece cut out of cardboard and pierced with
ornamental openings, it shoots far above the low roof of the nave; so that at night the moon,
rising above the southern aisle, shines through its topmost window, and casts the shadow of
its tracery upon the pavement of the square. This is a constructive blemish to which the Italians
in no part of the peninsula were sensitive. They seem to have regarded their church fronts
as independent of the edifice, capable of separate treatment, and worthy in themselves of being
made the subject of decorative skill.

In the so-called Santuario of Crema--a circular church dedicated to S. Maria della Croce, outside
the walls--the Lombard style has been adapted to the manner of the Mid-Renaissance. This church
was raised in the last years of the fifteenth century by Gian Battista Battagli, an architect
of Lodi, who followed the pure rules of taste, bequeathed to North Italian builders by Bramante.
The beauty of the edifice is due entirely to its tranquil dignity and harmony of parts, the
lightness of its circling loggia, and the just proportion maintained between the central structure
and the four projecting porticoes. The sharp angles of these vestibules afford a contrast to
the simplicity of the main building, while their clustered cupolas assist the general effect
of roundness aimed at by the architect. Such a church as this proves how much may be achieved
by the happy distribution of architectural masses. It was the triumph of the best Renaissance
style to attain lucidity of treatment, and to produce beauty by geometrical proportion. When
Leo Battista Alberti complained to his friend, Matteo di Bastia, that a slight alteration of
the curves in his design for S. Francesco at Rimini would 'spoil his music,' ciò che tu muti
discorda tutta quella musica, this is what he meant. The melody of lines and the harmony of
parts made a symphony to his eyes no less agreeable than a concert of tuned lutes and voices
to his ears; and to this concord he was so sensitive that any deviation was a discord.

After visiting the churches of Crema and sauntering about the streets awhile, there is nothing
left to do but to take refuge in the old Albergo del Pozzo. This is one of those queer Italian
inns, which carry you away at once into a scene of Goldoni. It is part of some palace, where
nobles housed their bravi in the sixteenth century, and which the lesser people of to-day have
turned into a dozen habitations. Its great stone staircase leads to a saloon upon which the
various bedchambers open; and round its courtyard runs an open balcony, and from the court
grows up a fig-tree poking ripe fruit against a bedroom window. Oleanders in tubs and red salvias
in pots, and kitchen herbs in boxes, flourish on the pavement, where the ostler comes to wash
his carriages, and where the barber shaves the poodle of the house. Visitors to the Albergo
del Pozzo are invariably asked if they have seen the Museo; and when they answer in the negative,
they are conducted with some ceremony to a large room on the ground-floor of the inn, looking
out upon the courtyard and the fig-tree. It was here that I gained the acquaintance of Signor
Folcioni, and became possessor of an object that has made the memory of Crema doubly interesting
to me ever since.

When we entered the Museo, we found a little old man, gentle, grave, and unobtrusive, varnishing
the ugly portrait of some Signor of the cinquecento. Round the walls hung pictures, of mediocre
value, in dingy frames; but all of them bore sounding titles. Titians, Lionardos, Guido Renis,
and Luinis, looked down and waited for a purchaser. In truth this museum was a bric-à-brac
shop of a sort that is common enough in Italy, where treasures of old lace, glass, armour,
furniture, and tapestry, may still be met with. Signor Folcioni began by pointing out the merits
of his pictures; and after making due allowance for his zeal as amateur and dealer, it was
possible to join in some of his eulogiums. A would-be Titian, for instance, bought in Verona
from a noble house in ruins, showed Venetian wealth of colour in its gemmy greens and lucid
crimsons shining from a background deep and glowing. Then he led us to a walnut-wood bureau
of late Renaissance work, profusely carved with nymphs and Cupids, and armed men, among festoons
of fruits embossed in high relief. Deeply drilled worm-holes set a seal of antiquity upon the
blooming faces and luxuriant garlandslike the touch of Time who 'delves the parallels in beauty's
brow.' On the shelves of an ebony cabinet close by he showed us a row of cups cut out of rock-crystal
and mounted in gilt silver, with heaps of engraved gems, old snuff-boxes, coins, medals, sprays
of coral, and all the indescribable lumber that one age flings aside as worthless for the next
to pick up from the dust-heap and regard as precious. Surely the genius of culture in our century
might be compared to a chiffonnier of Paris, who, when the night has fallen, goes into the
streets, bag on back and lantern in hand, to rake up the waifs and strays a day of whirling
life has left him.

The next curiosity was an ivory carving of S. Anthony preaching to the fishes, so fine and
small you held it on your palm, and used a lens to look at it. Yet there stood the Santo gesticulating,
and there were the fishes in rows--the little fishes first, and then the middle-sized, and
last of all the great big fishes almost out at sea, with their heads above the water and their
mouths wide open, just as the Fioretti di San Francesco describes them. After this came some
original drawings of doubtful interest, and then a case of fifty-two nielli. These were of
unquestionable value; for has not Cicognara engraved them on a page of his classic monograph?
The thin silver plates, over which once passed the burin of Maso Finiguerra, cutting lines
finer than hairs, and setting here a shadow in dull acid-eaten grey, and there a high light
of exquisite polish, were far more delicate than any proofs impressed from them. These frail
masterpieces of Florentine art--the first beginnings of line engraving--we held in our hands
while Signor Folcioni read out Cicognara's commentary in a slow impressive voice, breaking
off now and then to point at the originals before us.

The sun had set, and the room was almost dark, when he laid his book down, and said: 'I have
not much left to show--yet stay! Here are still some little things of interest.' He then opened
the door into his bedroom, and took down from a nail above his bed a wooden Crucifix. Few things
have fascinated me more than this Crucifix--produced without parade, half negligently, from
the dregs of his collection by a dealer in old curiosities at Crema. The cross was, or is--for
it is lying on the table now before me--twenty-one inches in length, made of strong wood, covered
with coarse yellow parchment, and shod at the four ends with brass. The Christ is roughly hewn
in reddish wood, coloured scarlet, where the blood streams from the five wounds. Over the head
an oval medallion, nailed into the cross, serves as framework to a miniature of the Madonna,
softly smiling with a Correggiesque simper. The whole Crucifix is not a work of art, but such
as may be found in every convent. Its date cannot be earlier than the beginning of the eighteenth
century. As I held it in my hand, I thought--perhaps this has been carried to the bedside of
the sick and dying; preachers have brandished it from the pulpit over conscience-stricken congregations;
monks have knelt before it on the brick floor of their cells, and novices have kissed it in
the vain desire to drown their yearnings after the relinquished world; perhaps it has attended
criminals to the scaffold, and heard the secrets of repentant murderers; but why should it
be shown me as a thing of rarity? These thoughts passed through my mind, while Signor Folcioni
quietly remarked: 'I bought this Cross from the Frati when their convent was dissolved in Crema.'
Then he bade me turn it round, and showed a little steel knob fixed into the back between the
arms. This was a spring. He pressed it, and the upper and lower parts of the cross came asunder;
and holding the top like a handle, I drew out as from a scabbard a sharp steel blade, concealed
in the thickness of the wood, behind the very body of the agonising Christ. What had been a
crucifix became a deadly poniard in my grasp, and the rust upon it in the twilight looked like
blood. 'I have often wondered,' said Signor Folcioni, 'that the Frati cared to sell me this.'

There is no need to raise the question of the genuineness of this strange relic, though I confess
to having had my doubts about it, or to wonder for what nefarious purposes the impious weapon
was designed--whether the blade was inserted by some rascal monk who never told the tale, or
whether it was used on secret service by the friars. On its surface the infernal engine carries
a dark certainty of treason, sacrilege, and violence. Yet it would be wrong to incriminate
the Order of S. Francis by any suspicion, and idle to seek the actual history of this mysterious
weapon. A writer of fiction could indeed produce some dark tale in the style of De Stendhal's
'Nouvelles,' and christen it 'The Crucifix of Crema.' And how delighted would Webster have
been if he had chanced to hear of such a sword-sheath! He might have placed it in the hands
of Bosola for the keener torment of his Duchess. Flamineo might have used it; or the disguised
friars, who made the deathbed of Bracciano hideous, might have plunged it in the Duke's heart
after mocking his eyes with the figure of the suffering Christ. To imagine such an instrument
of moral terror mingled with material violence, lay within the scope of Webster's sinister
and powerful genius. But unless he had seen it with his eyes, what poet would have ventured
to devise the thing and display it even in the dumb show of a tragedy? Fact is more wonderful
than romance. No apocalypse of Antichrist matches what is told of Roderigo Borgia; and the
crucifix of Crema exceeds the sombre fantasy of Webster.

Whatever may be the truth about this cross, it has at any rate the value of a symbol or a metaphor.
The idea which it materialises, the historical events of which it is a sign, may well arrest
attention. A sword concealed in the crucifix--what emblem brings more forcibly to mind than
this that two-edged glaive of persecution which Dominic unsheathed to mow down the populations
of Provence and to make Spain destitute of men? Looking upon the crucifix of Crema, we may
seem to see pestilence-stricken multitudes of Moors and Jews dying on the coasts of Africa
and Italy. The Spaniards enter Mexico; and this is the cross they carry in their hands. They
take possession of Peru; and while the gentle people of the Incas come to kiss the bleeding
brows of Christ, they plunge this dagger in their sides. What, again, was the temporal power
of the Papacy but a sword embedded in a cross? Each Papa Rè, when he ascended the Holy Chair,
was forced to take the crucifix of Crema and to bear it till his death. A long procession of
war-loving Pontiffs, levying armies and paying captains with the pence of S. Peter, in order
to keep by arms the lands they had acquired by fraud, defiles before our eyes. First goes the
terrible Sixtus IV., who died of grief when news was brought him that the Italian princes had
made peace. He it was who sanctioned the conspiracy to murder the Medici in church, at the
moment of the elevation of the Host. The brigands hired to do this work refused at the last
moment. The sacrilege appalled them. 'Then,' says the chronicler, 'was found a priest, who,
being used to churches, had no scruple.' The poignard this priest carried was this crucifix
of Crema. After Sixtus came the blood-stained Borgia; and after him Julius II., whom the Romans
in triumphal songs proclaimed a second Mars, and who turned, as Michelangelo expressed it,
the chalices of Rome into swords and helms. Leo X., who dismembered Italy for his brother and
nephew; and Clement VII., who broke the neck of Florence and delivered the Eternal City to
the spoiler, follow. Of the antinomy between the Vicariate of Christ and an earthly kingdom,
incarnated by these and other Holy Fathers, what symbol could be found more fitting than a
dagger with a crucifix for case and covering?

It is not easy to think or write of these matters without rhetoric. When I laid my head upon
my pillow that night in the Albergo del Pozzo at Crema, it was full of such thoughts; and when
at last sleep came, it brought with it a dream begotten doubtless by the perturbation of my
fancy. For I thought that a brown Franciscan, with hollow cheeks, and eyes aflame beneath his
heavy cowl, sat by my bedside, and, as he raised the crucifix in his lean quivering hands,
whispered a tale of deadly passion and of dastardly revenge. His confession carried me away
to a convent garden of Palermo; and there was love in the story, and hate that is stronger
than love, and, for the ending of the whole matter, remorse which dies not even in the grave.
Each new possessor of the crucifix of Crema, he told me, was forced to hear from him in dreams
his dreadful history. But, since it was a dream and nothing more, why should I repeat it? I
have wandered far enough already from the vintage and the sunny churches of the little Lombard
town.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHERUBINO AT THE SCALA THEATRE

I

It was a gala night. The opera-house of Milan was one blaze of light and colour. Royalty in
field-marshal's uniform and diamonds, attended by decorated generals and radiant ladies of
the court, occupied the great box opposite the stage. The tiers from pit to gallery were filled
with brilliantly dressed women. From the third row, where we were fortunately placed, the curves
of that most beautiful of theatres presented to my gaze a series of retreating and approaching
lines, composed of noble faces, waving feathers, sparkling jewels, sculptured shoulders, uniforms,
robes of costly stuffs and every conceivable bright colour. Light poured from the huge lustre
in the centre of the roof, ran along the crimson velvet cushions of the boxes, and flashed
upon the gilded frame of the proscenium--satyrs and acanthus scrolls carved in the manner of
a century ago. Pit and orchestra scarcely contained the crowd of men who stood in lively conversation,
their backs turned to the stage, their lorgnettes raised from time to time to sweep the boxes.
This surging sea of faces and sober costumes enhanced by contrast the glitter, variety, and
luminous tranquillity of the theatre above it.

No one took much thought of the coming spectacle, till the conductor's rap was heard upon his
desk, and the orchestra broke into the overture to Mozart's Nozze. Before they were half through,
it was clear that we should not enjoy that evening the delight of perfect music added to the
enchantment of so brilliant a scene. The execution of the overture was not exactly bad. But
it lacked absolute precision, the complete subordination of all details to the whole. In rendering
German music Italians often fail through want of discipline, or through imperfect sympathy
with a style they will not take the pains to master. Nor, when the curtain lifted and the play
began, was the vocalisation found in all parts satisfactory. The Contessa had a meagre mezza
voce. Susanna, though she did not sing false, hovered on the verge of discords, owing to the
weakness of an organ which had to be strained in order to make any effect on that enormous
stage. On the other hand, the part of Almaviva was played with dramatic fire, and Figaro showed
a truly Southern sense of comic fun. The scenes were splendidly mounted, and something of a
princely grandeur--the largeness of a noble train of life--was added to the drama by the vast
proportions of the theatre. It was a performance which, in spite of drawbacks, yielded pleasure.

And yet it might have left me frigid but for the artist who played Cherubino. This was no other
than Pauline Lucca, in the prime of youth and petulance. From her first appearance to the last
note she sang, she occupied the stage. The opera seemed to have been written for her. The mediocrity
of the troupe threw her commanding merits--the richness of her voice, the purity of her intonation,
her vivid conception of character, her indescribable brusquerie of movement and emotion--into
that relief which a sapphire gains from a setting of pearls. I can see her now, after the lapse
of nearly twenty years, as she stood there singing in blue doublet and white mantle, with the
slouched Spanish hat and plume of ostrich feathers, a tiny rapier at her side, and blue rosettes
upon her white silk shoes! The Nozze di Figaro was followed by a Ballo. This had for its theme
the favourite legend of a female devil sent from the infernal regions to ruin a young man.
Instead of performing the part assigned her, Satanella falls in love with the hero, sacrifices
herself, and is claimed at last by the powers of goodness. Quia multum amavit, her lost soul
is saved. If the opera left much to be desired, the Ballo was perfection. That vast stage of
the Scala Theatre had almost overwhelmed the actors of the play. Now, thrown open to its inmost
depths, crowded with glittering moving figures, it became a fairyland of fantastic loveliness.
Italians possess the art of interpreting a serious dramatic action by pantomime. A Ballo with
them is no mere affair of dancing--fine dresses, evolutions performed by brigades of pink-legged
women with a fixed smile on their faces. It takes the rank of high expressive art. And the
motive of this Ballo was consistently worked out in an intelligible sequence of well-ordered
scenes. To moralise upon its meaning would be out of place. It had a conflict of passions,
a rhythmical progression of emotions, a tragic climax in the triumph of good over evil.

II

At the end of the performance there were five persons in our box--the beautiful Miranda, and
her husband, a celebrated English man of letters; a German professor of biology; a young Milanese
gentleman, whom we called Edoardo; and myself. Edoardo and the professor had joined us just
before the ballet. I had occupied a seat behind Miranda and my friend the critic from the commencement.
We had indeed dined together first at their hotel, the Rebecchino; and they now proposed that
we should all adjourn together there on foot for supper. From the Scala Theatre to the Rebecchino
is a walk of some three minutes.

When we were seated at the supper-table and had talked some while upon indifferent topics,
the enthusiasm roused in me by Pauline Lucca burst out. I broke a moment's silence by exclaiming,
'What a wonder-world music creates! I have lived this evening in a sphere of intellectual enjoyment
raised to rapture. I never lived so fast before!' 'Do you really think so?' said Miranda. She
had just finished a beccafico, and seemed disposed for conversation. 'Do you really think so?
For my part, music is in a wholly different region from experience, thought, or feeling. What
does it communicate to you?' And she hummed to herself the motif of Cherubino's 'Non so più
cosa son cosa faccio.'--'What does it teach me?' I broke in upon the melody. 'Why, to-night,
when I heard the music, and saw her there, and felt the movement of the play, it seemed to
me that a new existence was revealed. For the first time I understood what love might be in
one most richly gifted for emotion.' Miranda bent her eyes on the table-cloth and played with
her wineglass. 'I don't follow you at all. I enjoyed myself to-night. The opera, indeed, might
have been better rendered. The ballet, I admit, was splendid. But when I remember the music--even
the best of it--even Pauline Lucca's part'--here she looked up, and shot me a quick glance
across the table--'I have mere music in my ears. Nothing more. Mere music!' The professor of
biology, who was gifted with, a sense of music and had studied it scientifically, had now crunched
his last leaf of salad. Wiping his lips with his napkin, he joined our tête-à-tête. 'Gracious
madam, I agree with you. He who seeks from music more than music gives, is on the quest--how
shall I put it?--of the Holy Grail.' 'And what,' I struck in, 'is this minimum or maximum that
music gives?' 'Dear young friend,' replied the professor, 'music gives melodies, harmonies,
the many beautiful forms to which sound shall be fashioned. Just as in the case of shells and
fossils, lovely in themselves, interesting for their history and classification, so is it with
music. You must not seek an intellectual meaning. No; there is no Inhalt in music' And he hummed
contentedly the air of 'Voi che sapete.' While he was humming, Miranda whispered to me across
the table, 'Separate the Lucca from the music.' 'But,' I answered rather hotly, for I was nettled
by Miranda's argument ad hominem, 'But it is not possible in an opera to divide the music from
the words, the scenery, the play, the actor. Mozart, when he wrote the score to Da Ponte's
libretto, was excited to production by the situations. He did not conceive his melodies out
of connection with a certain cast of characters, a given ethical environment.' 'I do not know,
my dear young friend,' responded the professor, 'whether you have read Mozart's Life and letters.
It is clearly shown in them how he composed airs at times and seasons when he had no words
to deal with. These he afterwards used as occasion served. Whence I conclude that music was
for him a free and lovely play of tone. The words of our excellent Da Ponte were a scaffolding
to introduce his musical creations to the public. But without that carpenter's work, the melodies
of Cherubino are Selbst-ständig, sufficient in themselves to vindicate their place in art.
Do I interpret your meaning, gracious lady?' This he said bending to Miranda. 'Yes,' she replied.
But she still played with her wineglass, and did not look as though she were quite satisfied.
I meanwhile continued: 'Of course I have read Mozart's Life, and know how he went to work.
But Mozart was a man of feeling, of experience, of ardent passions. How can you prove to me
that the melodies he gave to Cherubino had not been evolved from situations similar to those
in which Cherubino finds himself? How can you prove he did not feel a natural appropriateness
in the motifs he selected from his memory for Cherubino? How can you be certain that the part
itself did not stimulate his musical faculty to fresh and still more appropriate creativeness?
And if we must fall back on documents, do you remember what he said himself about the love-music
in Die Entführung? I think he tells us that he meant it to express his own feeling for the
woman who had just become his wife.' Miranda looked up as though she were almost half-persuaded.
Yet she hummed again 'Non so più,' then said to herself, 'Yes, it is wiser to believe with
the professor that these are sequences of sounds, and nothing more.' Then she sighed. In the
pause which followed, her husband, the famous critic, filled his glass, stretched his legs
out, and began: 'You have embarked, I see, upon the ocean of æsthetics. For my part, to-night
I was thinking how much better fitted for the stage Beaumarchais' play was than this musical
mongrel--this operatic adaptation. The wit, observe, is lost. And Cherubino--that sparkling
little enfant terrible--becomes a sentimental fellow--a something I don't know what--between
a girl and a boy--a medley of romance and impudence--anyhow a being quite unlike the sharply
outlined playwright's page. I confess I am not a musician; the drama is my business, and I
judge things by their fitness for the stage. My wife agrees with me to differ. She likes music,
I like plays. To-night she was better pleased than I was; for she got good music tolerably
well rendered, while I got nothing but a mangled comedy.'

We bore the critic's monologue with patience. But once again the spirit, seeking after something
which neither Miranda, nor her husband, nor the professor could be got to recognise, moved
within me. I cried out at a venture, 'People who go to an opera must forget music pure and
simple, must forget the drama pure and simple. You must welcome a third species of art, in
which the play, the music, the singers with their voices, the orchestra with its instruments--Pauline
Lucca, if you like, with her fascination' (and here I shot a side-glance at Miranda), 'are
so blent as to create a world beyond the scope of poetry or music or acting taken by themselves.
I give Mozart credit for having had insight into this new world, for having brought it near
to us. And I hold that every fresh representation of his work is a fresh revelation of its
possibilities.'

To this the critic answered, 'You now seem to me to be confounding the limits of the several
arts.' 'What!' I continued, 'is the drama but emotion presented in its most external forms
as action? And what is music but emotion, in its most genuine essence, expressed by sound?
Where then can a more complete artistic harmony be found than in the opera?'

'The opera,' replied our host, 'is a hybrid. You will probably learn to dislike artistic hybrids,
if you have the taste and sense I give you credit for. My own opinion has been already expressed.
In the Nozze, Beaumarchais' Mariage de Figaro is simply spoiled. My friend the professor declares
Mozart's music to be sufficient by itself, and the libretto to be a sort of machinery for its
display. Miranda, I think, agrees with him. You plead eloquently for the hybrid. You have a
right to your own view. These things are matters, in the final resort, of individual taste
rather than of demonstrable principles. But I repeat that you are very young.' The critic drained
his Lambrusco, and smiled at me.

'Yes, he is young,' added Miranda. 'He must learn to distinguish between music, his own imagination,
and a pretty woman. At present he mixes them all up together. It is a sort of transcendental
omelette. But I think the pretty woman has more to do with it than metaphysics!'

All this while Edoardo had bestowed devout attention on his supper. But it appeared that the
drift of our discourse had not been lost by him. 'Well,' he said, 'you finely fibred people
dissect and analyse. I am content with the spettacolo. That pleases. What does a man want more?
The Nozze is a comedy of life and manners. The music is adorable. To-night the women were not
bad to look at--the Lucca was divine; the scenes--ingenious. I thought but little. I came away
delighted. You could have a better play, Caro Signore!' (with a bow to our host). 'That is
granted. You might have better music, Cara Signora!' (with a bow to Miranda). 'That too is
granted. But when the play and the music come together--how shall I say?--the music helps the
play, and the play helps the music; and we--well we, I suppose, must help both!'

Edoardo's little speech was so ingenuous, and, what is more, so true to his Italian temperament,
that it made us all laugh and leave the argument just where we found it. The bottles of Lambrusco
supplied us each with one more glass; and while we were drinking them, Miranda, woman-like,
taking the last word, but contradicting herself, softly hummed 'Non so più cosa son,' and 'Ah!'
she said, 'I shall dream of love to-night!'

We rose and said good-night. But when I had reached my bedroom in the Hôtel de la Ville, I
sat down, obstinate and unconvinced, and penned this rhapsody, which I have lately found among
papers of nearly twenty years ago. I give it as it stands.

III

Mozart has written the two melodramas of love--the one a melo-tragedy, the other a melo-comedy.
But in really noble art, Comedy and Tragedy have faces of equal serenity and beauty. In the
Vatican there are marble busts of the two Muses, differing chiefly in their head-dresses: that
of Tragedy is an elaborately built-up structure of fillets and flowing hair, piled high above
the forehead and descending in long curls upon the shoulders; while Comedy wears a similar
adornment, with the addition of a wreath of vine-leaves and grape-bunches. The expression of
the sister goddesses is no less finely discriminated. Over the mouth of Comedy plays a subtle
smile, and her eyes are relaxed in a half-merriment. A shadow rests upon the slightly heavier
brows of Tragedy, and her lips, though not compressed, are graver. So delicately did the Greek
artist indicate the division between two branches of one dramatic art. And since all great
art is classical, Mozart's two melodramas, Don Giovanni and the Nozze di Figaro, though the
one is tragic and the other comic, are twin-sisters, similar in form and feature.

The central figure of the melo-tragedy is Don Juan, the hero of unlimited desire, pursuing
the unattainable through tortuous interminable labyrinths, eager in appetite yet never satisfied,
'for ever following and for ever foiled.' He is the incarnation of lust that has become a habit
of the soul--rebellious, licentious, selfish, even cruel. His nature, originally noble and
brave, has assumed the qualities peculiar to lust--rebellion, license, cruelty, defiant egotism.
Yet, such as he is, doomed to punishment and execration, Don Juan remains a fit subject for
poetry and music, because he is complete, because he is impelled by some demonic influence,
spurred on by yearnings after an unsearchable delight. In his death, the spirit of chivalry
survives, metamorphosed, it is true, into the spirit of revolt, yet still tragic, such as might
animate the desperate sinner of a haughty breed.

The central figure of the melo-comedy is Cherubino, the genius of love, no less insatiable,
but undetermined to virtue or to vice. This is the point of Cherubino, that the ethical capacities
in him are still potential. His passion still hovers on the borderland of good and bad. And
this undetermined passion is beautiful because of extreme freshness; of infinite, immeasurable
expansibility. Cherubino is the epitome of all that belongs to the amorous temperament in a
state of still ascendant adolescence. He is about sixteen years of age--a boy yesterday, a
man to-morrow--to-day both and neither--something beyond boyhood, but not yet limited by man's
responsibility and man's absorbing passions. He partakes of both ages in the primal awakening
to self-consciousness. Desire, which in Don Juan has become a fiend, hovers before him like
a fairy. His are the sixteen years, not of a Northern climate, but of Spain or Italy, where
manhood appears in a flash, and overtakes the child with sudden sunrise of new faculties. Nondum
amabam, sed amare amabam, quaerebam quod amarem, amans amare--'I loved not yet, but was in
love with loving; I sought what I should love, being in love with loving.' That sentence, penned
by S. Augustine and consecrated by Shelley, describes the mood of Cherubino. He loves at every
moment of his life, with every pulse of his being. His object is not a beloved being, but love
itself--the satisfaction of an irresistible desire, the paradise of bliss which merely loving
has become for him. What love means he hardly knows. He only knows that he must love. And women
love him--half as a plaything to be trifled with, half as a young god to be wounded by. This
rising of the star of love as it ascends into the heaven of youthful fancy, is revealed in
the melodies Mozart has written for him. How shall we describe their potency? Who shall translate
those curiously perfect words to which tone and rhythm have been indissolubly wedded? E pur
mi piace languir cosi.... E se non ho chi m' oda, parlo d'amor con me.

But if this be so, it may be asked, Who shall be found worthy to act Cherubino on the stage?
You cannot have seen and heard Pauline Lucca, or you would not ask this question.

Cherubino is by no means the most important person in the plot of the Nozze. But he strikes
the keynote of the opera. His love is the standard by which we measure the sad, retrospective,
stately love of the Countess, who tries to win back an alienated husband. By Cherubino we measure
the libertine love of the Count, who is a kind of Don Juan without cruelty, and the humorous
love of Figaro and his sprightly bride Susanna. Each of these characters typifies one of the
many species of love. But Cherubino anticipates and harmonises all. They are conscious, experienced,
world-worn, disillusioned, trivial. He is all love, foreseen, foreshadowed in a dream of life
to be; all love, diffused through brain and heart and nerves like electricity; all love, merging
the moods of ecstasy, melancholy, triumph, regret, jealousy, joy, expectation, in a hazy sheen,
as of some Venetian sunrise. What will Cherubino be after three years? A Romeo, a Lovelace,
a Lothario, a Juan? a disillusioned rake, a sentimentalist, an effete fop, a romantic lover?
He may become any one of these, for he contains the possibilities of all. As yet, he is the
dear glad angel of the May of love, the nightingale of orient emotion. This moment in the unfolding
of character Mozart has arrested and eternalised for us in Cherubino's melodies; for it is
the privilege of art to render things most fugitive and evanescent fixed imperishably in immortal
form.

IV

This is indeed a rhapsodical production. Miranda was probably right. Had it not been for Pauline
Lucca, I might not have philosophised the Nozze thus. Yet, in the main, I believe that my instinct
was well grounded. Music, especially when wedded to words, more especially when those words
are dramatic, cannot separate itself from emotion. It will not do to tell us that a melody
is a certain sequence of sounds; that the composer chose it for its beauty of rhythm, form,
and tune, and only used the words to get it vocalised. We are forced to go farther back, and
ask ourselves, What suggested it in the first place to the composer? why did he use it precisely
in connection with this dramatic situation? How can we answer these questions except by supposing
that music was for him the utterance through art of some emotion? The final fact of human nature
is emotion, crystallising itself in thought and language, externalising itself in action and
art. 'What,' said Novalis, 'are thoughts but pale dead feelings?' Admitting this even in part,
we cannot deny to music an emotional content of some kind. I would go farther, and assert that,
while a merely mechanical musician may set inappropriate melodies to words, and render music
inexpressive of character, what constitutes a musical dramatist is the conscious intention
of fitting to the words of his libretto such melody as shall interpret character, and the power
to do this with effect.

That the Cherubino of Mozart's Nozze is quite different from Beaumarchais' Cherubin does not
affect this question. He is a new creation, just because Mozart could not, or would not, conceive
the character of the page in Beaumarchais' sprightly superficial spirit. He used the part to
utter something unutterable except by music about the soul of the still adolescent lover. The
libretto-part and the melodies, taken together, constitute a new romantic ideal, consistent
with experience, but realised with the intensity and universality whereby art is distinguished
from life. Don Juan was a myth before Mozart touched him with the magic wand of music. Cherubino
became a myth by the same Prospero's spell. Both characters have the universality, the symbolic
potency, which belongs to legendary beings. That there remains a discrepancy between the boy-page
and the music made for him, can be conceded without danger to my theory; for the music made
for Cherubino is meant to interpret his psychical condition, and is independent of his boyishness
of conduct.

This further explains why there may be so many renderings of Cherubino's melodies. Mozart idealised
an infinite emotion. The singer is forced to define; the actor also is forced to define. Each
introduces his own limit on the feeling. When the actor and the singer meet together in one
personality, this definition of emotion becomes of necessity doubly specific. The condition
of all music is that it depends in a great measure on the temperament of the interpreter for
its momentary shade of expression, and this dependence is of course exaggerated when the music
is dramatic. Furthermore, the subjectivity of the audience enters into the problem as still
another element of definition. It may therefore be fairly said that, in estimating any impression
produced by Cherubino's music, the original character of the page, transplanted from French
comedy to Italian opera, Mozart's conception of that character, Mozart's specific quality of
emotion and specific style of musical utterance, together with the contralto's interpretation
of the character and rendering of the music, according to her intellectual capacity, artistic
skill, and timbre of voice, have collaborated with the individuality of the hearer. Some of
the constituents of the ever-varying product--a product which is new each time the part is
played--are fixed. Da Ponte's Cherubino and Mozart's melodies remain unalterable. All the rest
is undecided; the singer and the listener change on each occasion.

To assert that the musician Mozart meant nothing by his music, to assert that he only cared
about it quâ music, is the same as to say that the painter Tintoretto, when he put the Crucifixion
upon canvas, the sculptor Michelangelo, when he carved Christ upon the lap of Mary, meant nothing,
and only cared about the beauty of their forms and colours. Those who take up this position
prove, not that the artist has no meaning to convey, but that for them the artist's nature
is unintelligible, and his meaning is conveyed in an unknown tongue. It seems superfluous to
guard against misinterpretation by saying that to expect clear definition from music--the definition
which belongs to poetry--would be absurd. The sphere of music is in sensuous perception; the
sphere of poetry is in intelligence. Music, dealing with pure sound, must always be vaguer
in significance than poetry, dealing with words. Nevertheless, its effect upon the sentient
subject may be more intense and penetrating for this very reason. We cannot fail to understand
what words are intended to convey; we may very easily interpret in a hundred different ways
the message of sound. But this is not because words are wider in their reach and more alive;
rather because they are more limited, more stereotyped, more dead. They symbolise something
precise and unmistakable; but this precision is itself attenuation of the something symbolised.
The exact value of the counter is better understood when it is a word than when it is a chord,
because all that a word conveys has already become a thought, while all that musical sounds
convey remains within the region of emotion which has not been intellectualised. Poetry touches
emotion through the thinking faculty. If music reaches the thinking faculty at all, it is through
fibres of emotion. But emotion, when it has become thought, has already lost a portion of its
force, and has taken to itself a something alien to its nature. Therefore the message of music
can never rightly be translated into words. It is the very largeness and vividness of the sphere
of simple feeling which makes its symbolical counterpart in sound so seeming vague. But in
spite of this incontestable defect of seeming vagueness, emotion expressed by music is nearer
to our sentient self, if we have ears to take it in, than the same emotion limited by language.
It is intenser, it is more immediate, as compensation for being less intelligible, less unmistakable
in meaning. It is an infinite, an indistinct, where each consciousness defines and sets a limitary
form.

V

A train of thought which begins with the concrete not unfrequently finds itself finishing,
almost against its will, in abstractions. This is the point to which the performance of Cherubino's
part by Pauline Lucca at the Scala twenty years ago has led me--that I have to settle with
myself what I mean by art in general, and what I take to be the proper function of music as
one of the fine arts.

'Art,' said Goethe, 'is but form-giving.' We might vary this definition, and say, 'Art is a
method of expression or presentation.' Then comes the question: If art gives form, if it is
a method of expression or presentation, to what does it give form, what does it express or
present? The answer certainly must be: Art gives form to human consciousness; expresses or
presents the feeling or the thought of man. Whatever else art may do by the way, in the communication
of innocent pleasures, in the adornment of life and the softening of manners, in the creation
of beautiful shapes and sounds, this, at all events, is its prime function.

While investing thought, the spiritual subject-matter of all art, with form, or finding for
it proper modes of presentation, each of the arts employs a special medium, obeying the laws
of beauty proper to that medium. The vehicles of the arts, roughly speaking, are material substances
(like stone, wood, metal), pigments, sounds, and words. The masterly handling of these vehicles
and the realisation of their characteristic types of beauty have come to be regarded as the
craftsman's paramount concern. And in a certain sense this is a right conclusion; for dexterity
in the manipulation of the chosen vehicle and power to create a beautiful object, distinguish
the successful artist from the man who may have had like thoughts and feelings. This dexterity,
this power, are the properties of the artist quâ artist. Yet we must not forget that the form
created by the artist for the expression of a thought or feeling is not the final end of art
itself. That form, after all, is but the mode of presentation through which the spiritual content
manifests itself. Beauty, in like manner, is not the final end of art, but is the indispensable
condition under which the artistic manifestation of the spiritual content must he made. It
is the business of art to create an ideal world, in which perception, emotion, understanding,
action, all elements of human life sublimed by thought, shall reappear in concrete forms as
beauty. This being so, the logical criticism of art demands that we should not only estimate
the technical skill of artists and their faculty for presenting beauty to the æsthetic sense,
but that we should also ask ourselves what portion of the human spirit he has chosen to invest
with form, and how he has conceived his subject. It is not necessary that the ideas embodied
in a work of art should be the artist's own. They may be common to the race and age: as, for
instance, the conception of sovereign deity expressed in the Olympian Zeus of Pheidias, or
the conception of divine maternity expressed in Raphael's 'Madonna di San Sisto.' Still the
personality of the artist, his own intellectual and moral nature, his peculiar way of thinking
and feeling, his individual attitude towards the material given to him in ideas of human consciousness,
will modify his choice of subject and of form, and will determine his specific type of beauty.
To take an example: supposing that an idea, common to his race and age, is given to the artist
for treatment; this will be the final end of the work of art which he produces. But his personal
qualities and technical performance determine the degree of success or failure to which he
attains in presenting that idea and in expressing it with beauty. Signorelli fails where Perugino
excels, in giving adequate and lovely form to the religious sentiment. Michelangelo is sure
of the sublime, and Raphael of the beautiful.

Art is thus the presentation of the human spirit by the artist to his fellow-men. The subject-matter
of the arts is commensurate with what man thinks and feels and does. It is as deep as religion,
as wide as life. But what distinguishes art from religion or from life is, that this subject-matter
must assume beautiful form, and must be presented directly or indirectly to the senses. Art
is not the school or the cathedral, but the playground, the paradise of humanity. It does not
teach, it does not preach. Nothing abstract enters into art's domain. Truth and goodness are
transmuted into beauty there, just as in science beauty and goodness assume the shape of truth,
and in religion truth and beauty become goodness. The rigid definitions, the unmistakable laws
of science, are not to be found in art. Whatever art has touched acquires a concrete sensuous
embodiment, and thus ideas presented to the mind in art have lost a portion of their pure thought-essence.
It is on this account that the religious conceptions of the Greeks were so admirably fitted
for the art of sculpture, and certain portions of the mediæval Christian mythology lent themselves
so well to painting. For the same reason the metaphysics of ecclesiastical dogma defy the artist's
plastic faculty. Art, in a word, is a middle term between reason and the senses. Its secondary
aim, after the prime end of presenting the human spirit in beautiful form has been accomplished,
is to give tranquil and innocent enjoyment.

       *       *       *       *       *

From what has gone before it will be seen that no human being can make or mould a beautiful
form without incorporating in that form some portion of the human mind, however crude, however
elementary. In other words, there is no work of art without a theme, without a motive, without
a subject. The presentation of that theme, that motive, that subject, is the final end of art.
The art is good or bad according as the subject has been well or ill presented, consistently
with the laws of beauty special to the art itself. Thus we obtain two standards for æsthetic
criticism. We judge a statue, for example, both by the sculptor's intellectual grasp upon his
subject, and also by his technical skill and sense of beauty. In a picture of the Last Judgment
by Fra Angelico we say that the bliss of the righteous has been more successfully treated than
the torments of the wicked, because the former has been better understood, although the painter's
skill in each is equal. In the Perseus of Cellini we admire the sculptor's spirit, finish of
execution, and originality of design, while we deplore that want of sympathy with the heroic
character which makes his type of physical beauty slightly vulgar and his facial expression
vacuous. If the phrase 'Art for art's sake' has any meaning, this meaning is simply that the
artist, having chosen a theme, thinks exclusively in working at it of technical dexterity or
the quality of beauty. There are many inducements for the artist thus to narrow his function,
and for the critic to assist him by applying the canons of a soulless connoisseurship to his
work; for the conception of the subject is but the starting-point in art-production, and the
artist's difficulties and triumphs as a craftsman lie in the region of technicalities. He knows,
moreover, that, however deep or noble his idea may be, his work of art will be worthless if
it fail in skill or be devoid of beauty. What converts a thought into a statue or a picture,
is the form found for it; and so the form itself seems all-important. The artist, therefore,
too easily imagines that he may neglect his theme; that a fine piece of colouring, a well-balanced
composition, or, as Cellini put it, 'un bel corpo ignudo,' is enough. And this is especially
easy in an age which reflects much upon the arts, and pursues them with enthusiasm, while its
deeper thoughts and feelings are not of the kind which translate themselves readily into artistic
form. But, after all, a fine piece of colouring, a well-balanced composition, a sonorous stanza,
a learned essay in counterpoint, are not enough. They are all excellent good things, yielding
delight to the artistic sense and instruction to the student. Yet when we think of the really
great statues, pictures, poems, music of the world, we find that these are really great because
of something more--and that more is their theme, their presentation of a noble portion of the
human soul. Artists and art-students may be satisfied with perfect specimens of a craftsman's
skill, independent of his theme; but the mass of men will not be satisfied; and it is as wrong
to suppose that art exists for artists and art-students, as to talk of art for art's sake.
Art exists for humanity. Art transmutes thought and feeling into terms of beautiful form. Art
is great and lasting in proportion as it appeals to the human consciousness at large, presenting
to it portions of itself in adequate and lovely form.

VI

It was necessary in the first place firmly to apprehend the truth that the final end of all
art is the presentation of a spiritual content; it is necessary in the next place to remove
confusions by considering the special circumstances of the several arts.

Each art has its own vehicle of presentation. What it can present and how it must present it,
depends upon the nature of this vehicle. Thus, though architecture, sculpture, painting, music,
poetry, meet upon the common ground of spiritualised experience--though the works of art produced
by the architect, sculptor, painter, musician, poet, emanate from the spiritual nature of the
race, are coloured by the spiritual nature of the men who make them, and express what is spiritual
in humanity under concrete forms invented for them by the artist--yet it is certain that all
of these arts do not deal exactly with the same portions of this common material in the same
way or with the same results. Each has its own department. Each exhibits qualities of strength
and weakness special to itself. To define these several departments, to explain the relation
of these several vehicles of presentation to the common subject-matter, is the next step in
criticism.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the fine arts, architecture alone subserves utility. We build for use. But the geometrical
proportions which the architect observes, contain the element of beauty and powerfully influence
the soul. Into the language of arch and aisle and colonnade, of cupola and façade and pediment,
of spire and vault, the architect translates emotion, vague perhaps but deep, mute but unmistakable.
When we say that a building is sublime or graceful, frivolous or stern, we mean that sublimity
or grace, frivolity or sternness, is inherent in it. The emotions connected with these qualities
are inspired in us when we contemplate it, and are presented to us by its form. Whether the
architect deliberately aimed at the sublime or graceful--whether the dignified serenity of
the Athenian genius sought to express itself in the Parthenon, and the mysticism of mediæval
Christianity in the gloom of Chartres Cathedral--whether it was Renaissance paganism which
gave its mundane pomp and glory to S. Peter's, and the refined selfishness of royalty its specious
splendour to the palace of Versailles--need not be curiously questioned. The fact that we are
impelled to raise these points, that architecture more almost than any art connects itself
indissolubly with the life, the character, the moral being of a nation and an epoch, proves
that we are justified in bringing it beneath our general definition of the arts. In a great
measure because it subserves utility, and is therefore dependent upon the necessities of life,
does architecture present to us through form the human spirit. Comparing the palace built by
Giulio Romano for the Dukes of Mantua with the contemporary castle of a German prince, we cannot
fail at once to comprehend the difference of spiritual conditions, as these displayed themselves
in daily life, which then separated Italy from the Teutonic nations. But this is not all. Spiritual
quality in the architect himself finds clear expression in his work. Coldness combined with
violence marks Brunelleschi's churches; a certain suavity and well-bred taste the work of Bramante;
while Michelangelo exhibits wayward energy in his Library of S. Lorenzo, and Amadeo self-abandonment
to fancy in his Lombard chapels. I have chosen examples from one nation and one epoch in order
that the point I seek to make, the demonstration of a spiritual quality in buildings, may be
fairly stated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sculpture and painting distinguish themselves from the other fine arts by the imitation of
concrete existences in nature. They copy the bodies of men and animals, the aspects of the
world around us, and the handiwork of men. Yet, in so far as they are rightly arts, they do
not make imitation an object in itself. The grapes of Zeuxis at which birds pecked, the painted
dog at which a cat's hair bristles--if such grapes or such a dog were ever put on canvas--are
but evidences of the artist's skill, not of his faculty as artist. These two plastic, or, as
I prefer to call them, figurative arts, use their imitation of the external world for the expression,
the presentation of internal, spiritual things. The human form is for them the outward symbol
of the inner human spirit, and their power of presenting spirit is limited by the means at
their disposal.

Sculpture employs stone, wood, clay, the precious metals, to model forms, detached and independent,
or raised upon a flat surface in relief. Its domain is the whole range of human character and
consciousness, in so far as these can be indicated by fixed facial expression, by physical
type, and by attitude. If we dwell for an instant on the greatest historical epoch of sculpture,
we shall understand the domain of this art in its range and limitation. At a certain point
of Greek development the Hellenic Pantheon began to be translated by the sculptors into statues;
and when the genius of the Greeks expired in Rome, the cycle of their psychological conceptions
had been exhaustively presented through this medium. During that long period of time, the most
delicate gradations of human personality, divinised, idealised, were presented to the contemplation
of the consciousness which gave them being, in appropriate types. Strength and swiftness, massive
force and airy lightness, contemplative repose and active energy, voluptuous softness and refined
grace, intellectual sublimity and lascivious seductiveness--the whole rhythm of qualities which
can be typified by bodily form--were analysed, selected, combined in various degrees, to incarnate
the religious conceptions of Zeus, Aphrodite, Herakles, Dionysus, Pallas, Fauns and Satyrs,
Nymphs of woods and waves, Tritons, the genius of Death, heroes and hunters, lawgivers and
poets, presiding deities of minor functions, man's lustful appetites and sensual needs. All
that men think, or do, or are, or wish for, or imagine in this world, had found exact corporeal
equivalents. Not physiognomy alone, but all the portions of the body upon which the habits
of the animating soul are wont to stamp themselves, were studied and employed as symbolism.
Uranian Aphrodite was distinguished from her Pandemic sister by chastened lust-repelling loveliness.
The muscles of Herakles were more ponderous than the tense sinews of Achilles. The Hermes of
the palæstra bore a torso of majestic depth; the Hermes, who carried messages from heaven,
had limbs alert for movement. The brows of Zeus inspired awe; the breasts of Dionysus breathed
delight.

A race accustomed, as the Greeks were, to read this symbolism, accustomed, as the Greeks were,
to note the individuality of naked form, had no difficulty in interpreting the language of
sculpture. Nor is there now much difficulty in the task. Our surest guide to the subject of
a basrelief or statue is study of the physical type considered as symbolical of spiritual quality.
From the fragment of a torso the true critic can say whether it belongs to the athletic or
the erotic species. A limb of Bacchus differs from a limb of Poseidon. The whole psychological
conception of Aphrodite Pandemos enters into every muscle, every joint, no less than into her
physiognomy, her hair, her attitude.

There is, however, a limit to the domain of sculpture. This art deals most successfully with
personified generalities. It is also strong in the presentation of incarnate character. But
when it attempts to tell a story, we often seek in vain its meaning. Battles of Amazons or
Centaurs upon basreliefs, indeed, are unmistakable. The subject is indicated here by some external
sign. The group of Laocoon appeals at once to a reader of Virgil, and the divine vengeance
of Leto's children upon Niobe is manifest in the Uffizzi marbles. But who are the several heroes
of the Æginetan pediment, and what was the subject of the Pheidian statues on the Parthenon?
Do the three graceful figures of a basrelief which exists at Naples and in the Villa Albani,
represent Orpheus, Hermes, and Eurydice, or Antiope and her two sons? Was the winged and sworded
genius upon the Ephesus column meant for a genius of Death or a genius of Love?

This dimness of significance indicates the limitation of sculpture, and inclines some of those
who feel its charm to assert that the sculptor seeks to convey no intellectual meaning, that
he is satisfied with the creation of beautiful form. There is sense in this revolt against
the faith which holds that art is nothing but a mode of spiritual presentation. Truly the artist
aims at producing beauty, is satisfied if he conveys delight. But it is impossible to escape
from the certainty that, while he is creating forms of beauty, he means something; and that
something, that theme for which he finds the form, is part of the world's spiritual heritage.
Only the crudest works of plastic art, capricci and arabesques, have no intellectual content;
and even these are good in so far as they convey the playfulness of fancy.

Painting employs colours upon surfaces--walls, panels, canvas. What has been said about sculpture
will apply in a great measure to this art. The human form, the world around us, the works of
man's hands, are represented in painting, not for their own sake merely, but with a view to
bringing thought, feeling, action, home to the consciousness of the spectator from the artist's
consciousness on which they have been impressed. Painting can tell a story better than sculpture,
can represent more complicated feelings, can suggest thoughts of a subtler intricacy. Through
colour, it can play, like music, directly on powerful but vague emotion. It is deficient in
fulness and roundness of concrete reality. A statue stands before us, the soul incarnate in
ideal form, fixed and frozen for eternity. The picture is a reflection cast upon a magic glass;
not less permanent, but reduced to a shadow of reality. To follow these distinctions farther
would be alien from the present purpose. It is enough to repeat that, within their several
spheres, according to their several strengths and weaknesses, both sculpture and painting present
the spirit to us only as the spirit shows itself immersed in things of sense. The light of
a lamp enclosed within an alabaster vase is still lamplight, though shorn of lustre and toned
to coloured softness. Even thus the spirit, immersed in things of sense presented to us by
the figurative arts, is still spirit, though diminished in its intellectual clearness and invested
with hues not its own. To fashion that alabaster form of art with utmost skill, to make it
beautiful, to render it transparent, is the artist's function. But he will have failed of the
highest if the light within burns dim, or if he gives the world a lamp in which no spiritual
flame is lighted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music transports us to a different region. It imitates nothing. It uses pure sound, and sound
of the most wholly artificial kind--so artificial that the musical sounds of one race are unmusical,
and therefore unintelligible, to another. Like architecture, music relies upon mathematical
proportions. Unlike architecture, music serves no utility. It is the purest art of pleasure--the
truest paradise and playground of the spirit. It has less power than painting, even less power
than sculpture, to tell a story or to communicate an idea. For we must remember that when music
is married to words, the words, and not the music, reach our thinking faculty. And yet, in
spite of all, music presents man's spirit to itself through form. The domain of the spirit
over which music reigns, is emotion--not defined emotion, not feeling even so defined as jealousy
or anger--but those broad bases of man's being out of which emotions spring, defining themselves
through action into this or that set type of feeling. Architecture, we have noticed, is so
connected with specific modes of human existence, that from its main examples we can reconstruct
the life of men who used it. Sculpture and painting, by limiting their presentation to the
imitation of external things, have all the help which experience and, association render. The
mere artificiality of music's vehicle separates it from life and makes its message untranslatable.
Yet, as I have already pointed out, this very disability under which it labours is the secret
of its extraordinary potency. Nothing intervenes between the musical work of art and the fibres
of the sentient being it immediately thrills. We do not seek to say what music means. We feel
the music. And if a man should pretend that the music has not passed beyond his ears, has communicated
nothing but a musical delight, he simply tells us that he has not felt music. The ancients
on this point were wiser than some moderns when, without pretending to assign an intellectual
significance to music, they held it for an axiom that one type of music bred one type of character,
another type another. A change in the music of a state, wrote Plato, will be followed by changes
in its constitution. It is of the utmost importance, said Aristotle, to provide in education
for the use of the ennobling and the fortifying moods. These philosophers knew that music creates
a spiritual world, in which the spirit cannot live and move without contracting habits of emotion.
In this vagueness of significance but intensity of feeling lies the magic of music. A melody
occurs to the composer, which he certainly connects with no act of the reason, which he is
probably unconscious of connecting with any movement of his feeling, but which nevertheless
is the form in sound of an emotional mood. When he reflects upon the melody secreted thus impromptu,
he is aware, as we learn from his own lips, that this work has correspondence with emotion.
Beethoven calls one symphony Heroic, another Pastoral; of the opening of another he says, 'Fate
knocks at the door.' Mozart sets comic words to the mass-music of a friend, in order to mark
his sense of its inaptitude for religious sentiment. All composers use phrases like Maestoso,
Pomposo, Allegro, Lagrimoso, Con Fuoco, to express the general complexion of the mood their
music ought to represent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before passing to poetry, it may be well to turn aside and consider two subordinate arts, which
deserve a place in any system of æsthetics. These are dancing and acting. Dancing uses the
living human form, and presents feeling or action, the passions and the deeds of men, in artificially
educated movements of the body. The element of beauty it possesses, independently of the beauty
of the dancer, is rhythm. Acting or the art of mimicry presents the same subject-matter, no
longer under the conditions of fixed rhythm but as an ideal reproduction of reality. The actor
is what he represents, and the element of beauty in his art is perfection of realisation. It
is his duty as an artist to show us Orestes or Othello, not perhaps exactly as Othello and
Orestes were, but as the essence of their tragedies, ideally incorporate in action, ought to
be. The actor can do this in dumb show. Some of the greatest actors of the ancient world were
mimes. But he usually interprets a poet's thought, and attempts to present an artistic conception
in a secondary form of art, which has for its advantage his own personality in play.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last of the fine arts is literature; or, in the narrower sphere of which it will be well
to speak here only, is poetry. Poetry employs words in fixed rhythms, which we call metres.
Only a small portion of its effect is derived from the beauty of its sound. It appeals to the
sense of hearing far less immediately than music does. It makes no appeal to the eyesight,
and takes no help from the beauty of colour. It produces no tangible object. But language being
the storehouse of all human experience, language being the medium whereby spirit communicates
with spirit in affairs of life, the vehicle which transmits to us the thoughts and feelings
of the past, and on which we rely for continuing our present to the future, it follows that,
of all the arts, poetry soars highest, flies widest, and is most at home in the region of the
spirit. What poetry lacks of sensuous fulness, it more than balances by intellectual intensity.
Its significance is unmistakable, because it employs the very material men use in their exchange
of thoughts and correspondence of emotions. To the bounds of its empire there is no end. It
embraces in its own more abstract being all the arts. By words it does the work in turn of
architecture, sculpture, painting, music. It is the metaphysic of the fine arts. Philosophy
finds place in poetry; and life itself, refined to its last utterance, hangs trembling on this
thread which joins our earth to heaven, this bridge between experience and the realms where
unattainable and imperceptible will have no meaning.

If we are right in defining art as the manifestation of the human spirit to man by man in beautiful
form, poetry, more incontestably than any other art, fulfils this definition and enables us
to gauge its accuracy. For words are the spirit, manifested to itself in symbols with no sensual
alloy. Poetry is therefore the presentation, through words, of life and all that life implies.
Perception, emotion, thought, action, find in descriptive, lyrical, reflective, dramatic, and
epical poetry their immediate apocalypse. In poetry we are no longer puzzled with problems
as to whether art has or has not of necessity a spiritual content. There cannot be any poetry
whatsoever without a spiritual meaning of some sort: good or bad, moral, immoral, or non-moral,
obscure or lucid, noble or ignoble, slight or weighty--such distinctions do not signify. In
poetry we are not met by questions whether the poet intended to convey a meaning when he made
it. Quite meaningless poetry (as some critics would fain find melody quite meaningless, or
a statue meaningless, or a Venetian picture meaningless) is a contradiction in terms. In poetry,
life, or a portion of life, lives again, resuscitated and presented to our mental faculty through
art. The best poetry is that which reproduces the most of life, or its intensest moments. Therefore
the extensive species of the drama and the epic, the intensive species of the lyric, have been
ever held in highest esteem. Only a half-crazy critic flaunts the paradox that poetry is excellent
in so far as it assimilates the vagueness of music, or estimates a poet by his power of translating
sense upon the borderland of nonsense into melodious words. Where poetry falls short in the
comparison with other arts, is in the quality of form-giving, in the quality of sensuous concreteness.
Poetry can only present forms to the mental eye and to the intellectual sense, stimulate the
physical senses by indirect suggestion. Therefore dramatic poetry, the most complicated kind
of poetry, relies upon the actor; and lyrical poetry, the intensest kind of poetry, seeks the
aid of music. But these comparative deficiencies are overbalanced, for all the highest purposes
of art, by the width and depth, the intelligibility and power, the flexibility and multitudinous
associations, of language. The other arts are limited in what they utter. There is nothing
which has entered into the life of man which poetry cannot express. Poetry says everything
in man's own language to the mind. The other arts appeal imperatively, each in its own region,
to man's senses; and the mind receives art's message by the help of symbols from the world
of sense. Poetry lacks this immediate appeal to sense. But the elixir which it offers to the
mind, its quintessence extracted from all things of sense, reacts through intellectual perception
upon all the faculties that make men what they are.

VII

I used a metaphor in one of the foregoing paragraphs to indicate the presence of the vital
spirit, the essential element of thought or feeling, in the work of art. I said it radiated
through the form, as lamplight through an alabaster vase. Now the skill of the artist is displayed
in modelling that vase, in giving it shape, rich and rare, and fashioning its curves with subtlest
workmanship. In so far as he is a craftsman, the artist's pains must be bestowed upon this
precious vessel of the animating theme. In so far as he has power over beauty, he must exert
it in this plastic act. It is here that he displays dexterity; here that he creates; here that
he separates himself from other men who think and feel. The poet, more perhaps than any other
artist, needs to keep this steadily in view; for words being our daily vehicle of utterance,
it may well chance that the alabaster vase of language should be hastily or trivially modelled.
This is the true reason why 'neither gods nor men nor the columns either suffer mediocrity
in singers.' Upon the poet it is specially incumbent to see that he has something rare to say
and some rich mode of saying it. The figurative arts need hardly be so cautioned. They run
their risk in quite a different direction. For sculptor and for painter, the danger is lest
he should think that alabaster vase his final task. He may too easily be satisfied with moulding
a beautiful but empty form.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last word on the topic of the arts is given in one sentence. Let us remember that every
work of art enshrines a spiritual subject, and that the artist's power is shown in finding
for that subject a form of ideal loveliness. Many kindred points remain to be discussed; as
what we mean by beauty, which is a condition indispensable to noble art; and what are the relations
of the arts to ethics. These questions cannot now be raised. It is enough in one essay to have
tried to vindicate the spirituality of art in general.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CINQUE CENTO BRUTUS

I.--THE SESTIERE DI SAN POLO

There is a quarter of Venice not much visited by tourists, lying as it does outside their beat,
away from the Rialto, at a considerable distance from the Frari and San Rocco, in what might
almost pass for a city separated by a hundred miles from the Piazza. This is the quarter of
San Polo, one corner of which, somewhere between the back of the Palazzo Foscari and the Campo
di San Polo, was the scene of a memorable act of vengeance in the year 1546. Here Lorenzino
de' Medici, the murderer of his cousin Alessandro, was at last tracked down and put to death
by paid cut-throats. How they succeeded in their purpose, we know in every detail from the
narrative dictated by the chief assassin. His story so curiously illustrates the conditions
of life in Italy three centuries ago, that I have thought it worthy of abridgment. But, in
order to make it intelligible, and to paint the manners of the times more fully, I must first
relate the series of events which led to Lorenzino's murder of his cousin Alessandro, and from
that to his own subsequent assassination. Lorenzino de' Medici, the Florentine Brutus of the
sixteenth century, is the hero of the tragedy. Some of his relatives, however, must first appear
upon the scene before he enters with a patriot's knife concealed beneath a court-fool's bauble.

II.--THE MURDER OF IPPOLITO DE' MEDICI

After the final extinction of the Florentine Republic, the hopes of the Medici, who now aspired
to the dukedom of Tuscany, rested on three bastards--Alessandro, the reputed child of Lorenzo,
Duke of Urbino; Ippolito, the natural son of Giuliano, Duke of Nemours; and Giulio, the offspring
of an elder Giuliano, who was at this time Pope, with the title of Clement VII. Clement had
seen Rome sacked in 1527 by a horde of freebooters fighting under the Imperial standard, and
had used the remnant of these troops, commanded by the Prince of Orange, to crush his native
city in the memorable siege of 1529-30. He now determined to rule Florence from the Papal chair
by the help of the two bastard cousins I have named. Alessandro was created Duke of Cività
di Penna, and sent to take the first place in the city. Ippolito was made a cardinal; since
the Medici had learned that Rome was the real basis of their power, and it was undoubtedly
in Clement's policy to advance this scion of his house to the Papacy. The sole surviving representative
of the great Lorenzo de' Medici's legitimate blood was Catherine, daughter of the Duke of Urbino
by Madeleine de la Tour d'Auvergne. She was pledged in marriage to the Duke of Orleans, who
was afterwards Henry II. of France. A natural daughter of the Emperor Charles V. was provided
for her putative half-brother Alessandro. By means of these alliances the succession of Ippolito
to the Papal chair would have been secured, and the strength of the Medici would have been
confirmed in Tuscany, but for the disasters which have now to be related.

Between the cousins Alessandro and Ippolito there was no love lost. As boys, they had both
played the part of princes in Florence under the guardianship of the Cardinal Passerini da
Cortona. The higher rank had then been given to Ippolito, who bore the title of Magnifico,
and seemed thus designated for the lordship of the city. Ippolito, though only half a Medici,
was of more authentic lineage than Alessandro; for no proof positive could be adduced that
the latter was even a spurious child of the Duke of Urbino. He bore obvious witness to his
mother's blood upon his mulatto's face; but this mother was the wife of a groom, and it was
certain that in the court of Urbino she had not been chary of her favours. The old magnificence
of taste, the patronage of art and letters, and the preference for liberal studies which distinguished
Casa Medici, survived in Ippolito; whereas Alessandro manifested only the brutal lusts of a
debauched tyrant. It was therefore with great reluctance that, moved by reasons of state and
domestic policy, Ippolito saw himself compelled to accept the scarlet hat. Alessandro having
been recognised as a son of the Duke of Urbino, had become half-brother to the future Queen
of France. To treat him as the head of the family was a necessity thrust, in the extremity
of the Medicean fortunes, upon Clement. Ippolito, who more entirely represented the spirit
of the house, was driven to assume the position of a cadet, with all the uncertainties of an
ecclesiastical career.

In these circumstances Ippolito had not strength of character to sacrifice himself for the
consolidation of the Medicean power, which could only have been effected by maintaining a close
bond of union between its members. The death of Clement in 1534 obscured his prospects in the
Church. He was still too young to intrigue for the tiara. The new Pope, Alessandro Farnese,
soon after his election, displayed a vigour which was unexpected from his age, together with
a nepotism which his previous character had scarcely warranted. The Cardinal de' Medici felt
himself excluded and oppressed. He joined the party of those numerous Florentine exiles, headed
by Filippo Strozzi, and the Cardinals Salviati and Ridolfi, all of whom were connected by marriage
with the legitimate Medici, and who unanimously hated and were jealous of the Duke of Cività
di Penna. On the score of policy it is difficult to condemn this step. Alessandro's hold upon
Florence was still precarious, nor had he yet married Margaret of Austria. Perhaps Ippolito
was right in thinking he had less to gain from his cousin than from the anti-Medicean faction
and the princes of the Church who favoured it. But he did not play his cards well. He quarrelled
with the new Pope, Paul III., and by his vacillations led the Florentine exiles to suspect
he might betray them.

In the summer of 1535 Ippolito was at Itri, a little town not far from Gaeta and Terracina,
within easy reach of Fondi, where dwelt the beautiful Giulia Gonzaga. To this lady the Cardinal
paid assiduous court, passing his time with her in the romantic scenery of that world-famous
Capuan coast. On the 5th of August his seneschal, Giovann' Andrea, of Borgo San Sepolcro, brought
him a bowl of chicken-broth, after drinking which he exclaimed to one of his attendants, 'I
have been poisoned, and the man who did it is Giovann' Andrea.' The seneschal was taken and
tortured, and confessed that he had mixed a poison with the broth. Four days afterwards the
Cardinal died, and a post-mortem examination showed that the omentum had been eaten by some
corrosive substance. Giovann' Andrea was sent in chains to Rome; but in spite of his confession,
more than once repeated, the court released him. He immediately took refuge with Alessandro
de' Medici in Florence, whence he repaired to Borgo San Sepolcro, and was, at the close of
a few months, there murdered by the people of the place. From these circumstances it was conjectured,
not without good reason, that Alessandro had procured his cousin's death; and a certain Captain
Pignatta, of low birth in Florence, a bravo and a coward, was believed to have brought the
poison to Itri from the Duke. The Medicean courtiers at Florence did not disguise their satisfaction;
and one of them exclaimed, with reference to the event, 'We know how to brush flies from our
noses!'

III.--THE MURDER OF ALESSANDRO DE' MEDICI

Having removed his cousin and rival from the scene, Alessandro de' Medici plunged with even
greater effrontery into the cruelties and debaucheries which made him odious in Florence. It
seemed as though fortune meant to smile on him; for in this same year (1535) Charles V. decided
at Naples in his favour against the Florentine exiles, who were pleading their own cause and
that of the city injured by his tyrannies; and in February of the following year he married
Margaret of Austria, the Emperor's natural daughter. Francesco Guicciardini, the first statesman
and historian of his age, had undertaken his defence, and was ready to support him by advice
and countenance in the conduct of his government. Within the lute of this prosperity, however,
there was one little rift. For some months past he had closely attached to his person a certain
kinsman, Lorenzo de' Medici, who was descended in the fourth generation from Lorenzo, the brother
of Cosimo Pater Patriæ. This Lorenzo, or Lorenzino, or Lorenzaccio, as his most intimate acquaintances
called him, was destined to murder Alessandro; and it is worthy of notice that the Duke had
received frequent warnings of his fate. A Perugian page, for instance, who suffered from some
infirmity, saw in a dream that Lorenzino would kill his master. Astrologers predicted that
the Duke must die by having his throat cut. One of them is said to have named Lorenzo de' Medici
as the assassin; and another described him so accurately that there was no mistaking the man.
Moreover, Madonna Lucrezia Salviati wrote to the Duke from Rome that he should beware of a
certain person, indicating Lorenzino; and her daughter, Madonna Maria, told him to his face
she hated the young man, 'because I know he means to murder you, and murder you he will.' Nor
was this all. The Duke's favourite body-servants mistrusted Lorenzino. On one occasion, when
Alessandro and Lorenzino, attended by a certain Giomo, were escalading a wall at night, as
was their wont upon illicit love-adventures, Giomo whispered to his master: 'Ah, my lord, do
let me cut the rope, and rid ourselves of him!' To which the Duke replied: 'No, I do not want
this; but if he could, I know he'd twist it round my neck.'

In spite, then, of these warnings and the want of confidence he felt, the Duke continually
lived with Lorenzino, employing him as pander in his intrigues, and preferring his society
to that of simpler men. When he rode abroad, he took this evil friend upon his crupper; although
he knew for certain that Lorenzino had stolen a tight-fitting vest of mail he used to wear,
and, while his arms were round his waist, was always meditating how to stick a poignard in
his body. He trusted, so it seems, to his own great strength and to the other's physical weakness.

At this point, since Lorenzino is the principal actor in the two-act drama which follows, it
will be well to introduce him to the reader in the words of Varchi, who was personally acquainted
with him. Born at Florence in 1514, he was left early by his father's death to the sole care
of his mother, Maria Soderini, 'a lady of rare prudence and goodness, who attended with the
utmost pains and diligence to his education. No sooner, however, had he acquired the rudiments
of humane learning, which, being of very quick parts, he imbibed with incredible facility,
than he began to display a restless mind, insatiable and appetitive of vice. Soon afterwards,
under the rule and discipline of Filippo Strozzi, he made open sport of all things human and
divine; and preferring the society of low persons, who not only flattered him but were congenial
to his tastes, he gave free rein to his desires, especially in affairs of love, without regard
for sex or age or quality, and in his secret soul, while he lavished feigned caresses upon
every one he saw, felt no esteem for any living being. He thirsted strangely for glory, and
omitted no point of deed or word that might, he thought, procure him the reputation of a man
of spirit or of wit. He was lean of person, somewhat slightly built, and on this account people
called him Lorenzino. He never laughed, but had a sneering smile; and although he was rather
distinguished by grace than beauty, his countenance being dark and melancholy, still in the
flower of his age he was beloved beyond all measure by Pope Clement; in spite of which he had
it in his mind (according to what he said himself after killing the Duke Alessandro) to have
murdered him. He brought Francesco di Raffaello de' Medici, the Pope's rival, who was a young
man of excellent attainments and the highest hope, to such extremity that he lost his wits,
and became the sport of the whole court at Rome, and was sent back, as a lesser evil, as a
confirmed madman to Florence.' Varchi proceeds to relate how Lorenzino fell into disfavour
with the Pope and the Romans by chopping the heads off statues from the arch of Constantine
and other monuments; for which act of vandalism Molsa impeached him in the Roman Academy, and
a price was set upon his head. Having returned to Florence, he proceeded to court Duke Alessandro,
into whose confidence he wormed himself, pretending to play the spy upon the exiles, and affecting
a personal timidity which put the Prince off his guard. Alessandro called him 'the philosopher,'
because he conversed in solitude with his own thoughts and seemed indifferent to wealth and
office. But all this while Lorenzino was plotting how to murder him.

Giovio's account of this strange intimacy may be added, since it completes the picture I have
drawn from Varchi:--'Lorenzo made himself the accomplice and instrument of those amorous amusements
for which the Duke had an insatiable appetite, with the object of deceiving him. He was singularly
well furnished with all the scoundrelly arts and trained devices of the pander's trade; composed
fine verses to incite to lust; wrote and represented comedies in Italian; and pretended to
take pleasure only in such tricks and studies. Therefore he never carried arms like other courtiers,
and feigned to be afraid of blood, a man who sought tranquillity at any price. Besides, he
bore a pallid countenance and melancholy brow, walking alone, talking very little and with
few persons. He haunted solitary places apart from the city, and showed such plain signs of
hypochondria that some began covertly to pass jokes on him. Certain others, who were more acute,
suspected that he was harbouring and devising in his mind some terrible enterprise.' The Prologue
to Lorenzino's own comedy of 'Aridosiso' brings the sardonic, sneering, ironical man vividly
before us. He calls himself 'un certo omiciatto, che non è nessun di voi che veggendolo non
l'avesse a noia, pensando che egli abbia fatto una commedia;' and begs the audience to damn
his play to save him the tedium of writing another. Criticised by the light of his subsequent
actions, this prologue may even be understood to contain a covert promise of the murder he
was meditating.

'In this way,' writes Varchi, 'the Duke had taken such familiarity with Lorenzo, that, not
content with making use of him as a ruffian in his dealings with women, whether religious or
secular, maidens or wives or widows, noble or plebeian, young or elderly, as it might happen,
he applied to him to procure for his pleasure a half-sister of Lorenzo's own mother, a young
lady of marvellous beauty, but not less chaste than beautiful, who was the wife of Lionardo
Ginori, and lived not far from the back entrance to the palace of the Medici.' Lorenzino undertook
this odious commission, seeing an opportunity to work his designs against the Duke. But first
he had to form an accomplice, since he could not hope to carry out the murder without help.
A bravo, called Michele del Tavolaccino, but better known by the nickname of Scoronconcolo,
struck him as a fitting instrument. He had procured this man's pardon for a homicide, and it
appears that the fellow retained a certain sense of gratitude. Lorenzino began by telling the
man there was a courtier who put insults upon him, and Scoronconcolo professed his readiness
to kill the knave. 'Sia chi si voglia; io l'ammazzerò, se fosse Cristo.' Up to the last minute
the name of Alessandro was not mentioned. Having thus secured his assistant, Lorenzino chose
a night when he knew that Alessandro Vitelli, captain of the Duke's guard, would be from home.
Then, after supper, he whispered in Alessandro's ear that at last he had seduced his aunt with
an offer of money, and that she would come to his, Lorenzo's chamber at the service of the
Duke that night. Only the Duke must appear at the rendezvous alone, and when he had arrived,
the lady should be fetched. 'Certain it is,' says Varchi, 'that the Duke, having donned a cloak
of satin in the Neapolitan style, lined with sable, when he went to take his gloves, and there
were some of mail and some of perfumed leather, hesitated awhile and said: "Which shall I choose,
those of war, or those of love-making?"' He took the latter and went out with only four attendants,
three of whom he dismissed upon the Piazza di San Marco, while one was stationed just opposite
Lorenzo's house, with strict orders not to stir if he should see folk enter or issue thence.
But this fellow, called the Hungarian, after waiting a great while, returned to the Duke's
chamber, and there went to sleep.

Meanwhile Lorenzino received Alessandro in his bedroom, where there was a good fire. The Duke
unbuckled his sword, which Lorenzino took, and having entangled the belt with the hilt, so
that it should not readily be drawn, laid it on the pillow. The Duke had flung himself already
on the bed, and hid himself among the curtains--doing this, it is supposed, to save himself
from the trouble of paying compliments to the lady when she should arrive. For Caterina Ginori
had the fame of a fair speaker, and Alessandro was aware of his own incapacity to play the
part of a respectful lover. Nothing could more strongly point the man's brutality than this
act, which contributed in no small measure to his ruin.

Lorenzino left the Duke upon the bed, and went at once for Scoronconcolo. He told him that
the enemy was caught, and bade him only mind the work he had to do. 'That will I do,' the bravo
answered, 'even though it were the Duke himself.' 'You've hit the mark,' said Lorenzino with
a face of joy; 'he cannot slip through our fingers. Come!' So they mounted to the bedroom,
and Lorenzino, knowing where the Duke was laid, cried: 'Sir, are you asleep?' and therewith
ran him through the back. Alessandro was sleeping, or pretending to sleep, face downwards,
and the sword passed through his kidneys and diaphragm. But it did not kill him. He slipped
from the bed, and seized a stool to parry the next blow. Scoronconcolo now stabbed him in the
face, while Lorenzino forced him back upon the bed; and then began a hideous struggle. In order
to prevent his cries, Lorenzino doubled his fist into the Duke's mouth. Alessandro seized the
thumb between his teeth, and held it in a vice until he died. This disabled Lorenzino, who
still lay upon his victim's body, and Scoronconcolo could not strike for fear of wounding his
master. Between the writhing couple he made, however, several passes with his sword, which
only pierced the mattress. Then he drew a knife and drove it into the Duke's throat, and bored
about till he had severed veins and windpipe.

IV.--THE FLIGHT OF LORENZINO DE' MEDICI

Alessandro was dead. His body fell to earth. The two murderers, drenched with blood, lifted
it up, and placed it on the bed, wrapped in the curtains, as they had found him first. Then
Lorenzino went to the window, which looked out upon the Via Larga, and opened it to rest and
breathe a little air. After this he called for Scoronconcolo's boy, Il Freccia, and bade him
look upon the dead man. Il Freccia recognised the Duke. But why Lorenzino did this, no one
knew. It seemed, as Varchi says, that, having planned the murder with great ability, and executed
it with daring, his good sense and good luck forsook him. He made no use of the crime he had
committed; and from that day forward till his own assassination, nothing prospered with him.
Indeed, the murder of Alessandro appears to have been almost motiveless, considered from the
point of view of practical politics. Varchi assumes that Lorenzino's burning desire of glory
prompted the deed; and when he had acquired the notoriety he sought, there was an end to his
ambition. This view is confirmed by the Apology he wrote and published for his act. It remains
one of the most pregnant, bold, and brilliant pieces of writing which we possess in favour
of tyrannicide from that epoch of insolent crime and audacious rhetoric. So energetic is the
style, and so biting the invective of this masterpiece, in which the author stabs a second
time his victim, that both Giordani and Leopardi affirmed it to be the only true monument of
eloquence in the Italian language. If thirst for glory was Lorenzino's principal incentive,
immediate glory was his guerdon. He escaped that same night with Scoronconcolo and Freccia
to Bologna, where he stayed to dress his thumb, and then passed forward to Venice. Filippo
Strozzi there welcomed him as the new Brutus, gave him money, and promised to marry his two
sons to the two sisters of the tyrant-killer. Poems were written and published by the most
famous men of letters, including Benedetto Varchi and Francesco Maria Molsa, in praise of the
Tuscan Brutus, the liberator of his country from a tyrant. A bronze medal was struck bearing
his name, with a profile copied from Michelangelo's bust of Brutus. On the obverse are two
daggers and a cup, and the date viii. id. Jan.

The immediate consequence of Alessandro's murder was the elevation of Cosimo, son of Giovanni
delle Bande Nere, and second cousin of Lorenzino, to the duchy. At the ceremony of his investiture
with the ducal honours, Cosimo solemnly undertook to revenge Alessandro's murder. In the following
March he buried his predecessor with pomp in San Lorenzo. The body was placed beside the bones
of the Duke of Urbino in the marble chest of Michelangelo, and here not many years ago it was
discovered. Soon afterwards Lorenzino was declared a rebel. His portrait was painted according
to old Tuscan precedent, head downwards, and suspended by one foot, upon the wall of the fort
built by Alessandro. His house was cut in twain from roof to pavement, and a narrow lane was
driven through it, which received the title of Traitor's Alley, Chiasso del Traditore. The
price of four thousand golden florins was put upon his head, together with the further sum
of one hundred florins per annum in perpetuity to be paid to the murderer and his direct heirs
in succession, by the Otto di Balia. Moreover, the man who killed Lorenzino was to enjoy all
civic privileges; exemption from all taxes, ordinary and extraordinary; the right of carrying
arms, together with two attendants, in the city and the whole domain of Florence; and the further
prerogative of restoring ten outlaws at his choice. If Lorenzino could be captured and brought
alive to Florence, the whole of this reward would be doubled.

This decree was promulgated in April 1537, and thenceforward Lorenzino de' Medici lived a doomed
man. The assassin, who had been proclaimed a Brutus by Tuscan exiles and humanistic enthusiasts,
was regarded as a Judas by the common people. Ballads were written on him with the title of
the 'Piteous and sore lament made unto himself by Lorenzino de' Medici, who murdered the most
illustrious Duke Alessandro.' He had become a wild beast, whom it was honourable to hunt down,
a pest which it was righteous to extirpate. Yet fate delayed nine years to overtake him. What
remains to be told about his story must be extracted from the narrative of the bravo who succeeded,
with the aid of an accomplice, in despatching him at Venice.[13] So far as possible, I shall
use the man's own words, translating them literally, and omitting only unimportant details.
The narrative throws brilliant light upon the manners and movements of professional cut-throats
at that period in Italy. It seems to have been taken down from the hero Francesco, or Cecco,
Bibboni's lips; and there is no doubt that we possess in it a valuable historical document
for the illustration of contemporary customs. It offers in all points a curious parallel to
Cellini's account of his own homicides and hair-breadth escapes. Moreover, it is confirmed
in its minutest circumstances by the records of the criminal courts of Venice in the sixteenth
century. This I can attest from recent examination of MSS. relating to the Signori di Notte
and the Esecutori contro la Bestemmia, which are preserved among the Archives at the Frari.

V.--THE MURDER OF LORENZINO DE' MEDICI

'When I returned from Germany,' begins Bibboni, 'where I had been in the pay of the Emperor,
I found at Vicenza Bebo da Volterra, who was staying in the house of M. Antonio da Roma, a
nobleman of that city. This gentleman employed him because of a great feud he had; and he was
mighty pleased, moreover, at my coming, and desired that I too should take up my quarters in
his palace.'

This paragraph strikes the keynote of the whole narrative, and introduces us to the company
we are about to keep. The noblemen of that epoch, if they had private enemies, took into their
service soldiers of adventure, partly to protect their persons, but also to make war, when
occasion offered, on their foes. The bravi, as they were styled, had quarters assigned them
in the basement of the palace, where they might be seen swaggering about the door or flaunting
their gay clothes behind the massive iron bars of the windows which opened on the streets.
When their master went abroad at night they followed him, and were always at hand to perform
secret services in love affairs, assassination, and espial. For the rest, they haunted taverns,
and kept up correspondence with prostitutes. An Italian city had a whole population of such
fellows, the offscourings of armies, drawn from all nations, divided by their allegiance of
the time being into hostile camps, but united by community of interest and occupation, and
ready to combine against the upper class, upon whose vices, enmities, and cowardice they throve.

Bibboni proceeds to say how another gentleman of Vicenza, M. Francesco Manente, had at this
time a feud with certain of the Guazzi and the Laschi, which had lasted several years, and
cost the lives of many members of both parties and their following. M. Francesco being a friend
of M. Antonio, besought that gentleman to lend him Bibboni and Bebo for a season; and the two
bravi went together with their new master to Celsano, a village in the neighbourhood. 'There
both parties had estates, and all of them kept armed men in their houses, so that not a day
passed without feats of arms, and always there was some one killed or wounded. One day, soon
afterwards, the leaders of our party resolved to attack the foe in their house, where we killed
two, and the rest, numbering five men, entrenched themselves in a ground-floor apartment; whereupon
we took possession of their harquebuses and other arms, which forced them to abandon the villa
and retire to Vicenza; and within a short space of time this great feud was terminated by an
ample peace.' After this Bebo took service with the Rector of the University in Padua, and
was transferred by his new patron to Milan. Bibboni remained at Vicenza with M. Galeazzo della
Seta, who stood in great fear of his life, notwithstanding the peace which had been concluded
between the two factions. At the end of ten months he returned to M. Antonio da Roma and his
six brothers, 'all of whom being very much attached to me, they proposed that I should live
my life with them, for good or ill, and be treated as one of the family; upon the understanding
that if war broke out and I wanted to take part in it, I should always have twenty-five crowns
and arms and horse, with welcome home, so long as I lived; and in case I did not care to join
the troops, the same provision for my maintenance.'

From these details we comprehend the sort of calling which a bravo of Bibboni's species followed.
Meanwhile Bebo was at Milan. 'There it happened that M. Francesco Vinta, of Volterra, was on
embassy from the Duke of Florence. He saw Bebo, and asked him what he was doing in Milan, and
Bebo answered that he was a knight errant.' This phrase, derived no doubt from the romantic
epics then in vogue, was a pretty euphemism for a rogue of Bebo's quality. The ambassador now
began cautiously to sound his man, who seems to have been outlawed from the Tuscan duchy, telling
him he knew a way by which he might return with favour to his home, and at last disclosing
the affair of Lorenzo. Bebo was puzzled at first, but when he understood the matter, he professed
his willingness, took letters from the envoy to the Duke of Florence, and, in a private audience
with Cosimo, informed him that he was ready to attempt Lorenzino's assassination. He added
that 'he had a comrade fit for such a job, whose fellow for the business could not easily be
found.'

Bebo now travelled to Vicenza, and opened the whole matter to Bibboni, who weighed it well,
and at last, being convinced that the Duke's commission to his comrade was bona fide, determined
to take his share in the undertaking. The two agreed to have no accomplices. They went to Venice,
and 'I,' says Bibboni, 'being most intimately acquainted with all that city, and provided there
with many friends, soon quietly contrived to know where Lorenzino lodged, and took a room in
the neighbourhood, and spent some days in seeing how we best might rule our conduct.' Bibboni
soon discovered that Lorenzino never left his palace; and he therefore remained in much perplexity,
until, by good luck, Ruberto Strozzi arrived from France in Venice, bringing in his train a
Navarrese servant, who had the nickname of Spagnoletto. This fellow was a great friend of the
bravo. They met, and Bibboni told him that he should like to go and kiss the hands of Messer
Ruberto, whom he had known in Rome. Strozzi inhabited the same palace as Lorenzino. 'When we
arrived there, both Messer Ruberto and Lorenzo were leaving the house, and there were around
them so many gentlemen and other persons, that I could not present myself, and both straightway
stepped into the gondola. Then I, not having seen Lorenzo for a long while past, and because
he was very quietly attired, could not recognise the man exactly, but only as it were between
certainty and doubt. Wherefore I said to Spagnoletto, "I think I know that gentleman, but don't
remember where I saw him." And Messer Ruberto was giving him his right hand. Then Spagnoletto
answered, "You know him well enough; he is Messer Lorenzo. But see you tell this to nobody.
He goes by the name of Messer Dario, because he lives in great fear for his safety, and people
don't know that he is now in Venice." I answered that I marvelled much, and if I could have
helped him, would have done so willingly. Then I asked where they were going, and he said,
to dine with Messer Giovanni della Casa, who was the Pope's Legate. I did not leave the man
till I had drawn from him all I required.'

Thus spoke the Italian Judas. The appearance of La Casa on the scene is interesting. He was
the celebrated author of the scandalous 'Capitolo del Forno,' the author of many sublime and
melancholy sonnets, who was now at Venice, prosecuting a charge of heresy against Pier Paolo
Vergerio, and paying his addresses to a noble lady of the Quirini family. It seems that on
the territory of San Marco he made common cause with the exiles from Florence, for he was himself
by birth a Florentine, and he had no objection to take Brutus-Lorenzino by the hand.

After the noblemen had rowed off in their gondola to dine with the Legate, Bibboni and his
friend entered their palace, where he found another old acquaintance, the house-steward, or
spenditore of Lorenzo. From him he gathered much useful information. Pietro Strozzi, it seems,
had allowed the tyrannicide one thousand five hundred crowns a year, with the keep of three
brave and daring companions (tre compagni bravi e facinorosi), and a palace worth fifty crowns
on lease. But Lorenzo had just taken another on the Campo di San Polo at three hundred crowns
a year, for which swagger (altura) Pietro Strozzi had struck a thousand crowns off his allowance.
Bibboni also learned that he was keeping house with his uncle, Alessandro Soderini, another
Florentine outlaw, and that he was ardently in love with a certain beautiful Barozza. This
woman was apparently one of the grand courtesans of Venice. He further ascertained the date
when he was going to move into the palace at San Polo, and, 'to put it briefly, knew everything
he did, and, as it were, how many times a day he spit.' Such were the intelligences of the
servants' hall, and of such value were they to men of Bibboni's calling.

In the Carnival of 1546 Lorenzo meant to go masqued in the habit of a gipsy woman to the square
of San Spirito, where there was to be a joust. Great crowds of people would assemble, and Bibboni
hoped to do his business there. The assassination, however, failed on this occasion, and Lorenzo
took up his abode in the palace he had hired upon the Campo di San Polo. This Campo is one
of the largest open places in Venice, shaped irregularly, with a finely curving line upon the
western side, where two of the noblest private houses in the city are still standing. Nearly
opposite these, in the south-western angle, stands, detached, the little old church of San
Polo. One of its side entrances opens upon the square; the other on a lane, which leads eventually
to the Frari. There is nothing in Bibboni's narrative to make it clear where Lorenzo hired
his dwelling. But it would seem from certain things which he says later on, that in order to
enter the church his victim had to cross the square. Meanwhile Bibboni took the precaution
of making friends with a shoemaker, whose shop commanded the whole Campo, including Lorenzo's
palace. In this shop he began to spend much of his time; 'and oftentimes I feigned to be asleep;
but God knows whether I was sleeping, for my mind, at any rate, was wide-awake.'

A second convenient occasion for murdering Lorenzo soon seemed to offer. He was bidden to dine
with Monsignor della Casa; and Bibboni, putting a bold face on, entered the Legate's palace,
having left Bebo below in the loggia, fully resolved to do the business. 'But we found,' he
says, 'that, they had gone to dine at Murano, so that we remained with our tabors in their
bag.' The island of Murano at that period was a favourite resort of the Venetian nobles, especially
of the more literary and artistic, who kept country-houses there, where they enjoyed the fresh
air of the lagoons and the quiet of their gardens.

The third occasion, after all these weeks of watching, brought success to Bibboni's schemes.
He had observed how Lorenzo occasionally so far broke his rules of caution as to go on foot,
past the church of San Polo, to visit the beautiful Barozza; and he resolved, if possible,
to catch him on one of these journeys. 'It so chanced on the 28th of February, which was the
second Sunday of Lent, that having gone, as was my wont, to pry out whether Lorenzo would give
orders for going abroad that day, I entered the shoemaker's shop, and stayed awhile, until
Lorenzo came to the window with a napkin round his neck for he was combing his hair--and at
the same moment I saw a certain Giovan Battista Martelli, who kept his sword for the defence
of Lorenzo's person, enter and come forth again. Concluding that they would probably go abroad,
I went home to get ready and procure the necessary weapons, and there I found Bebo asleep in
bed, and made him get up at once, and we came to our accustomed post of observation, by the
church of San Polo, where our men would have to pass.' Bibboni now retired to his friend the
shoemaker's, and Bebo took up his station at one of the side-doors of San Polo; 'and, as good
luck would have it, Giovan Battista Martelli came forth, and walked a piece in front, and then
Lorenzo came, and then Alessandro Soderini, going the one behind the other, like storks, and
Lorenzo, on entering the church, and lifting up the curtain of the door, was seen from the
opposite door by Bebo, who at the same time noticed how I had left the shop, and so we met
upon the street as we had agreed, and he told me that Lorenzo was inside the church.'

To any one who knows the Campo di San Polo, it will be apparent that Lorenzo had crossed from
the western side of the piazza and entered the church by what is technically called its northern
door. Bebo, stationed at the southern door, could see him when he pushed the heavy stoia or
leather curtain aside, and at the same time could observe Bibboni's movements in the cobbler's
shop. Meanwhile Lorenzo walked across the church and came to the same door where Bebo had been
standing. 'I saw him issue from the church and take the main street; then came Alessandro Soderini,
and I walked last of all; and when we reached the point we had determined on, I jumped in front
of Alessandro with the poignard in my hand, crying, "Hold hard, Alessandro, and get along with
you in God's name, for we are not here for you!" He then threw himself around my waist, and
grasped my arms, and kept on calling out. Seeing how wrong I had been to try to spare his life,
I wrenched myself as well as I could from his grip, and with my lifted poignard struck him,
as God willed, above the eyebrow, and a little blood trickled from the wound. He, in high fury,
gave me such a thrust that I fell backward, and the ground besides was slippery from having
rained a little. Then Alessandro drew his sword, which he carried in its scabbard, and thrust
at me in front, and struck me on the corslet, which for my good fortune was of double mail.
Before I could get ready I received three passes, which, had I worn a doublet instead of that
mailed corslet, would certainly have run me through. At the fourth pass I had regained my strength
and spirit, and closed with him, and stabbed him four times in the head, and being so close
he could not use his sword, but tried to parry with his hand and hilt, and I, as God willed,
struck him at the wrist below the sleeve of mail, and cut his hand off clean, and gave him
then one last stroke on his head. Thereupon he begged for God's sake spare his life, and I,
in trouble about Bebo, left him in the arms of a Venetian nobleman, who held him back from
jumping into the canal.'

Who this Venetian nobleman, found unexpectedly upon the scene, was, does not appear. Nor, what
is still more curious, do we hear anything of that Martelli, the bravo, 'who kept his sword
for the defence of Lorenzo's person.' The one had arrived accidentally, it seems. The other
must have been a coward and escaped from the scuffle.

'When I turned,' proceeds Bibboni, 'I found Lorenzo on his knees. He raised himself, and I,
in anger, gave him a great cut across the head, which split it in two pieces, and laid him
at my feet, and he never rose again.'

VI.--THE ESCAPE OF THE BRAVI

Bebo, meanwhile, had made off from the scene of action. And Bibboni, taking to his heels, came
up with him in the little square of San Marcello. They now ran for their lives till they reached
the traghetto di San Spirito, where they threw their poignards into the water, remembering
that no man might carry these in Venice under penalty of the galleys. Bibboni's white hose
were drenched with blood. He therefore agreed to separate from Bebo, having named a rendezvous.
Left alone, his ill luck brought him face to face with twenty constables (sbirri). 'In a moment
I conceived that they knew everything, and were come to capture me, and of a truth I saw that
it was over with me. As swiftly as I could I quickened pace and got into a church, near to
which was the house of a Compagnia, and the one opened into the other, and knelt down and prayed,
commending myself with fervour to God for my deliverance and safety. Yet while I prayed, I
kept my eyes well open and saw the whole band pass the church, except one man who entered,
and I strained my sight so that I seemed to see behind as well as in front, and then it was
I longed for my poignard, for I should not have heeded being in a church.' But the constable,
it soon appeared, was not looking for Bibboni. So he gathered up his courage, and ran for the
Church of San Spirito, where the Padre Andrea Volterrano was preaching to a great congregation.
He hoped to go in by one door and out by the other, but the crowd prevented him, and he had
to turn back and face the sbirrí. One of them followed him, having probably caught sight of
the blood upon his hose. Then Bibboni resolved to have done with the fellow, and rushed at
him, and flung him down with his head upon the pavement, and ran like mad and came at last,
all out of breath, to San Marco. It seems clear that before Bibboni separated from Bebo they
had crossed the water, for the Sestiere di San Polo is separated from the Sestiere di San Marco
by the Grand Canal. And this they must have done at the traghetto di San Spirito. Neither the
church nor the traghetto are now in existence, and this part of the story is therefore obscure.[14]
Having reached San Marco, he took a gondola at the Ponte della Paglia, where tourists are now
wont to stand and contemplate the Ducal Palace and the Bridge of Sighs. First, he sought the
house of a woman of the town who was his friend; then changed purpose, and rowed to the palace
of the Count Salici da Collalto. 'He was a great friend and intimate of ours, because Bebo
and I had done him many and great services in times passed. There I knocked; and Bebo opened
the door, and when he saw me dabbled with blood, he marvelled that I had not come to grief
and fallen into the hands of justice, and, indeed, had feared as much because I had remained
so long away.' It appears, therefore, that the Palazzo Collalto was their rendezvous. 'The
Count was from home; but being known to all his people, I played the master and went into the
kitchen to the fire, and with soap and water turned my hose, which had been white, to a grey
colour.' This is a very delicate way of saying that he washed out the blood of Alessandro and
Lorenzo!

Soon after the Count returned, and 'lavished caresses' upon Bebo and his precious comrade.
They did not tell him what they had achieved that morning, but put him off with a story of
having settled a sbirro in a quarrel about a girl. Then the Count invited them to dinner; and
being himself bound to entertain the first physician of Venice, requested them to take it in
an upper chamber. He and his secretary served them with their own hands at table. When the
physician arrived, the Count went downstairs; and at this moment a messenger came from Lorenzo's
mother, begging the doctor to go at once to San Polo, for that her son had been murdered and
Soderini wounded to the death. It was now no longer possible to conceal their doings from the
Count, who told them to pluck up courage and abide in patience. He had himself to dine and
take his siesta, and then to attend a meeting of the Council.

About the hour of vespers, Bibboni determined to seek better refuge. Followed at a discreet
distance by Bebo, he first called at their lodgings and ordered supper. Two priests came in
and fell into conversation with them. But something in the behaviour of one of these good men
roused his suspicions. So they left the house, took a gondola, and told the man to row hard
to S. Maria Zobenigo. On the way he bade him put them on shore, paid him well, and ordered
him to wait for them. They landed near the palace of the Spanish embassy; and here Bibboni
meant to seek sanctuary. For it must be remembered that the houses of ambassadors, no less
than of princes of the Church, were inviolable. They offered the most convenient harbouring-places
to rascals. Charles V., moreover, was deeply interested in the vengeance taken on Alessandro
de' Medici's murderer, for his own natural daughter was Alessandro's widow and Duchess of Florence.
In the palace they were met with much courtesy by about forty Spaniards, who showed considerable
curiosity, and told them that Lorenzo and Alessandro Soderini had been murdered that morning
by two men whose description answered to their appearance. Bibboni put their questions by and
asked to see the ambassador. He was not at home. In that case, said Bibboni, take us to the
secretary. Attended by some thirty Spaniards, 'with great joy and gladness,' they were shown
into the secretary's chamber. He sent the rest of the folk away, 'and locked the door well,
and then embraced and kissed us before we had said a word, and afterwards bade us talk freely
without any fear.' When Bibboni had told the whole story, he was again embraced and kissed
by the secretary, who thereupon left them and went to the private apartment of the ambassador.
Shortly after he returned and led them by a winding staircase into the presence of his master.
The ambassador greeted them with great honour, told them he would strain all the power of the
empire to hand them in safety over to Duke Cosimo, and that he had already sent a courier to
the Emperor with the good news.

So they remained in hiding in the Spanish embassy; and in ten days' time commands were received
from Charles himself that everything should be done to convey them safely to Florence. The
difficulty was how to smuggle them out of Venice, where the police of the Republic were on
watch, and Florentine outlaws were mounting guard on sea and shore to catch them. The ambassador
began by spreading reports on the Rialto every morning of their having been seen at Padua,
at Verona, in Friuli. He then hired a palace at Malghera, near Mestre, and went out daily with
fifty Spaniards, and took carriage or amused himself with horse exercise and shooting. The
Florentines, who were on watch, could only discover from his people that he did this for amusement.
When he thought that he had put them sufficiently off their guard, the ambassador one day took
Bibboni and Bebo out by Canaregio and Mestre to Malghera, concealed in his own gondola, with
the whole train of Spaniards in attendance. And though, on landing, the Florentines challenged
them, they durst not interfere with an ambassador or come to battle with his men. So Bebo and
Bibboni were hustled into a coach, and afterwards provided with two comrades and four horses.
They rode for ninety miles without stopping to sleep, and on the day following this long journey
reached Trento, having probably threaded the mountain valleys above Bassano, for Bibboni speaks
of a certain village where the people talked half German. The Imperial Ambassador at Trento
forwarded them next day to Mantua; from Mantua they came to Piacenza; thence, passing through
the valley of the Taro, crossing the Apennines at Cisa, descending on Pontremoli, and reaching
Pisa at night, the fourteenth day after their escape from Venice.

When they arrived at Pisa, Duke Cosimo was supping. So they went to an inn, and next morning
presented themselves to his Grace. Cosimo received them kindly, assured them of his gratitude,
confirmed them in the enjoyment of their rewards and privileges, and swore that they might
rest secure of his protection in all parts of his dominion. We may imagine how the men caroused
together after this reception. As Bibboni adds, 'We were now able for the whole time of life
left us to live splendidly, without a thought or care.' The last words of his narrative are
these: 'Bebo from Pisa, at what date I know not, went home to Volterra, his native town, and
there finished his days; while I abode in Florence, where I have had no further wish to hear
of wars, but to live my life in holy peace.'

So ends the story of the two bravi. We have reason to believe, from some contemporary documents
which Cantù has brought to light, that Bibboni exaggerated his own part in the affair. Luca
Martelli, writing to Varchi, says that it was Bebo who clove Lorenzo's skull with a cutlass.
He adds this curious detail, that the weapons of both men were poisoned, and that the wound
inflicted by Bibboni on Soderini's hand was a slight one. Yet, the poignard being poisoned,
Soderini died of it. In other respects Martelli's brief account agrees with that given by Bibboni,
who probably did no more, his comrade being dead, than claim for himself, at some expense of
truth, the lion's share of their heroic action.

VII.--LORENZINO BRUTUS

It remains to ask ourselves, What opinion can be justly formed of Lorenzino's character and
motives? When he murdered his cousin, was he really actuated by the patriotic desire to rid
his country of a monster? Did he imitate the Roman Brutus in the noble spirit of his predecessors,
Olgiati and Boscoli, martyrs to the creed of tyrannicide? Or must this crowning action of a
fretful life be explained, like his previous mutilation of the statues on the Arch of Constantine,
by a wild thirst for notoriety? Did he hope that the exiles would return to Florence, and that
he would enjoy an honourable life, an immortality of glorious renown? Did envy for his cousin's
greatness and resentment of his undisguised contempt--the passions of one who had been used
for vile ends--conscious of self-degradation and the loss of honour, yet mindful of his intellectual
superiority--did these emotions take fire in him and mingle with a scholar's reminiscences
of antique heroism, prompting him to plan a deed which should at least assume the show of patriotic
zeal, and prove indubitable courage in its perpetrator? Did he, again, perhaps imagine, being
next in blood to Alessandro and direct heir to the ducal crown by the Imperial Settlement of
1530, that the city would elect her liberator for her ruler? Alfieri and Niccolini, having
taken, as it were, a brief in favour of tyrannicide, praised Lorenzino as a hero. De Musset,
who wrote a considerable drama on his story, painted him as a roué corrupted by society, enfeebled
by circumstance, soured by commerce with an uncongenial world, who hides at the bottom of his
mixed nature enough of real nobility to make him the leader of a forlorn hope for the liberties
of Florence. This is the most favourable construction we can put upon Lorenzo's conduct. Yet
some facts of the case warn us to suspend our judgment. He seems to have formed no plan for
the liberation of his fellow-citizens. He gave no pledge of self-devotion by avowing his deed
and abiding by its issues. He showed none of the qualities of a leader, whether in the cause
of freedom or of his own dynastic interests, after the murder. He escaped as soon as he was
able, as secretly as he could manage, leaving the city in confusion, and exposing himself to
the obvious charge of abominable treason. So far as the Florentines knew, his assassination
of their Duke was but a piece of private spite, executed with infernal craft. It is true that
when he seized the pen in exile, he did his best to claim the guerdon of a patriot, and to
throw the blame of failure on the Florentines. In his Apology, and in a letter written to Francesco
de' Medici, he taunts them with lacking the spirit to extinguish tyranny when he had slain
the tyrant. He summons plausible excuses to his aid--the impossibility of taking persons of
importance into his confidence, the loss of blood he suffered from his wound, the uselessness
of rousing citizens whom events proved over-indolent for action. He declares that he has nothing
to regret. Having proved by deeds his will to serve his country, he has saved his life in order
to spend it for her when occasion offered. But these arguments, invented after the catastrophe,
these words, so bravely penned when action ought to have confirmed his resolution, do not meet
the case. It was no deed of a true hero to assassinate a despot, knowing or half knowing that
the despot's subjects would immediately elect another. Their languor could not, except rhetorically,
be advanced in defence of his own flight.

The historian is driven to seek both the explanation and palliation of Lorenzo's failure in
the temper of his times. There was enough daring left in Florence to carry through a plan of
brilliant treason, modelled on an antique Roman tragedy. But there was not moral force in the
protagonist to render that act salutary, not public energy sufficient in his fellow-citizens
to accomplish his drama of deliverance. Lorenzo was corrupt. Florence was flaccid. Evil manners
had emasculated the hero. In the state the last spark of independence had expired with Ferrucci.

Still I have not without forethought dubbed this man a Cinque Cento Brutus. Like much of the
art and literature of his century, his action may be regarded as a bizarre imitation of the
antique manner. Without the force and purpose of a Roman, Lorenzo set himself to copy Plutarch's
men--just as sculptors carved Neptunes and Apollos without the dignity and serenity of the
classic style. The antique faith was wanting to both murderer and craftsman in those days.
Even as Renaissance work in art is too often aimless, decorative, vacant of intention, so Lorenzino's
Brutus tragedy seems but the snapping of a pistol in void air. He had the audacity but not
the ethical consistency of his crime. He played the part of Brutus like a Roscius, perfect
in its histrionic details. And it doubtless gave to this skilful actor a supreme satisfaction--salving
over many wounds of vanity, quenching the poignant thirst for things impossible and draughts
of fame--that he could play it on no mimic stage, but on the theatre of Europe. The weakness
of his conduct was the central weakness of his age and country. Italy herself lacked moral
purpose, sense of righteous necessity, that consecration of self to a noble cause, which could
alone have justified Lorenzo's perfidy. Confused memories of Judith, Jael, Brutus, and other
classical tyrannicides, exalted his imagination. Longing for violent emotions, jaded with pleasure
which had palled, discontented with his wasted life, jealous of his brutal cousin, appetitive
to the last of glory, he conceived his scheme. Having conceived, he executed it with that which
never failed in Cinque Cento Italy--the artistic spirit of perfection. When it was over, he
shrugged his shoulders, wrote his magnificent Apology with a style of adamant upon a plate
of steel, and left it for the outlaws of Filippo Strozzi's faction to deal with the crisis
he had brought about. For some years he dragged out an ignoble life in obscurity, and died
at last, as Varchi puts it, more by his own carelessness than by the watchful animosity of
others. Over the wild, turbid, clever, incomprehensible, inconstant hero-artist's grave we
write our Requiescat. Clio, as she takes the pen in hand to record this prayer, smiles disdainfully
and turns to graver business.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO DRAMATISTS OF THE LAST CENTURY

There are few contrasts more striking than that which is presented by the memoirs of Goldoni
and Alfieri. Both of these men bore names highly distinguished in the history of Italian literature.
Both of them were framed by nature with strongly marked characters, and fitted to perform a
special work in the world. Both have left behind them records of their lives and literary labours,
singularly illustrative of their peculiar differences. There is no instance in which we see
more clearly the philosophical value of autobiographies, than in these vivid pictures which
the great Italian tragedian and comic author have delineated. Some of the most interesting
works of Lionardo da Vinci, Giorgione, Albert Dürer, Rembrandt, Rubens, and Andrea del Sarto,
are their portraits painted by themselves. These pictures exhibit not only the lineaments of
the masters, but also their art. The hand which drew them was the hand which drew the 'Last
Supper,' or the 'Madonna of the Tribune:' colour, method, chiaroscuro, all that makes up manner
in painting, may be studied on the same canvas as that which faithfully represents the features
of the man whose genius gave his style its special character. We seem to understand the clear
calm majesty of Lionardo's manner, the silver-grey harmonies and smooth facility of Andrea's
Madonnas, the better for looking at their faces drawn by their own hands at Florence. And if
this be the case with a dumb picture, how far higher must be the interest and importance of
the written life of a known author! Not only do we recognise in its composition the style and
temper and habits of thought which are familiar to us in his other writings; but we also hear
from his own lips how these were formed, how his tastes took their peculiar direction, what
circumstances acted on his character, what hopes he had, and where he failed. Even should his
autobiography not bear the marks of uniform candour, it probably reveals more of the actual
truth, more of the man's real nature in its height and depth, than any memoir written by friend
or foe. Its unconscious admissions, its general spirit, and the inferences which we draw from
its perusal, are far more valuable than any mere statement of facts or external analysis, however
scientific. When we become acquainted with the series of events which led to the conception
or attended the production of some masterpiece of literature, a new light is thrown upon its
beauties, fresh life bursts forth from every chapter, and we seem to have a nearer and more
personal interest in its success. What a powerful sensation, for instance, is that which we
experience when, after studying the 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,' Gibbon tells us
how the thought of writing it came to him upon the Capitol, among the ruins of dead Rome, and
within hearing of the mutter of the monks of Ara Coeli, and how he finished it one night by
Lake Geneva, and laid his pen down and walked forth and saw the stars above his terrace at
Lausanne!

The memoirs of Alfieri and Goldoni are not deficient in any of the characteristics of good
autobiography. They seem to bear upon their face the stamp of truthfulness, they illustrate
their authors' lives with marvellous lucidity, and they are full of interest as stories. But
it is to the contrast which they present that our attention should be chiefly drawn. Other
biographies may be as interesting and amusing. None show in a more marked manner two distinct
natures endowed with genius for one art, and yet designed in every possible particular for
different branches of that art. Alfieri embodies Tragedy; Goldoni is the spirit of Comedy.
They are both Italians: their tragedies and comedies are by no means cosmopolitan; but this
national identity of character only renders more remarkable the individual divergences by which
they were impelled into their different paths. Thalia seems to have made the one, body, soul,
and spirit; and Melpomene the other; each goddess launched her favourite into circumstances
suited to the evolution of his genius, and presided over his development, so that at his death
she might exclaim,--Behold the living model of my Art!

Goldoni was born at Venice in the year 1707; he had already reached celebrity when Alfieri
saw the light for the first time, in 1749, at Asti. Goldoni's grandfather was a native of Modena,
who had settled in Venice, and there lived with the prodigality of a rich and ostentatious
'bourgeois.' 'Amid riot and luxury did I enter the world,' says the poet, after enumerating
the banquets and theatrical displays with which the old Goldoni entertained his guests in his
Venetian palace and country-house. Venice at that date was certainly the proper birthplace
for a comic poet. The splendour of the Renaissance had thoroughly habituated her nobles to
pleasures of the sense, and had enervated their proud, maritime character, while the great
name of the republic robbed them of the caution for which they used to be conspicuous. Yet
the real strength of Venice was almost spent, and nothing remained but outward insolence and
prestige. Everything was gay about Goldoni in his earliest childhood. Puppet-shows were built
to amuse him by his grandfather. 'My mother,' he says, 'took charge of my education, and my
father of my amusements.' Let us turn to the opening scene in Alfieri's life, and mark the
difference. A father above sixty, 'noble, wealthy, and respectable,' who died before his son
had reached the age of one year old. A mother devoted to religion, the widow of one marquis,
and after the death of a second husband, Alfieri's father, married for the third time to a
nobleman of ancient birth. These were Alfieri's parents. He was born in a solemn palazzo in
the country town of Asti, and at the age of five already longed for death as an escape from
disease and other earthly troubles. So noble and so wealthy was the youthful poet that an abbé
was engaged to carry out his education, but not to teach him more than a count should know.
Except this worthy man he had no companions whatever. Strange ideas possessed the boy. He ruminated
on his melancholy, and when eight years old attempted suicide. At this age he was sent to the
academy at Turin, attended, as befitted a lad of his rank, by a man-servant, who was to remain
and wait on him at school. Alfieri stayed here several years without revisiting his home, tyrannised
over by the valet who added to his grandeur, constantly subject to sickness, and kept in almost
total ignorance by his incompetent preceptors. The gloom and pride and stoicism of his temperament
were augmented by this unnatural discipline. His spirit did not break, but took a haughtier
and more disdainful tone. He became familiar with misfortunes. He learned to brood over and
intensify his passions. Every circumstance of his life seemed strung up to a tragic pitch.
This at least is the impression which remains upon our mind after reading in his memoirs the
narrative of what must in many of its details have been a common schoolboy's life at that time.

Meanwhile, what had become of young Goldoni? His boyhood was as thoroughly plebeian, various,
and comic as Alfieri's had been patrician, monotonous, and tragical. Instead of one place of
residence, we read of twenty. Scrape succeeds to scrape, adventure to adventure. Knowledge
of the world, and some book learning also, flow in upon the boy, and are eagerly caught up
by him and heterogeneously amalgamated in his mind. Alfieri learned nothing, wrote nothing,
in his youth, and heard his parents say--'A nobleman need never strive to be a doctor of the
faculties.' Goldoni had a little medicine and much law thrust upon him. At eight he wrote a
comedy, and ere long began to read the plays of Plautus, Terence, Aristophanes, and Machiavelli.
Between the nature of the two poets there was a marked and characteristic difference as to
their mode of labour and of acquiring knowledge. Both of them loved fame, and wrought for it;
but Alfieri did so from a sense of pride and a determination to excel; while Goldoni loved
the approbation of his fellows, sought their compliments, and basked in the sunshine of smiles.
Alfieri wrote with labour. Each tragedy he composed went through a triple process of composition,
and received frequent polishing when finished. Goldoni dashed off his pieces with the greatest
ease on every possible subject. He once produced sixteen comedies in one theatrical season.
Alfieri's were like lion's whelps--brought forth with difficulty, and at long intervals; Goldoni's,
like the brood of a hare--many, frequent, and as agile as their parent. Alfieri amassed knowledge
scrupulously, but with infinite toil. He mastered Greek and Hebrew when he was past forty.
Goldoni never gave himself the least trouble to learn anything, but trusted to the ready wit,
good memory, and natural powers, which helped him in a hundred strange emergencies. Power of
will and pride sustained the one; facility and a good-humoured vanity the other. This contrast
was apparent at a very early age. We have seen how Alfieri passed his time at Turin, in a kind
of aristocratic prison of educational ignorance. Goldoni's grandfather died when he was five
years old, and left his family in great embarrassment. The poet's father went off to practise
medicine at Perugia. His son followed him, acquired the rudiments of knowledge in that town,
and then proceeded to study philosophy alone at Rimini. There was no man-servant or academy
in his case. He was far too plebeian and too free. The boy lodged with a merchant, and got
some smattering of Thomas Aquinas and the Peripatetics into his small brain, while he contrived
to form a friendship with an acting company. They were on the wing for Venice in a coasting
boat, which would touch at Chiozza, where Goldoni's mother then resided. The boy pleased them.
Would he like the voyage? This offer seemed too tempting, and away he rushed, concealed himself
on board, and made one of a merry motley shipload. 'Twelve persons, actors as well as actresses,
a prompter, a machinist, a storekeeper, eight domestics, four chambermaids, two nurses, children
of every age, cats, dogs, monkeys, parrots, birds, pigeons, and a lamb; it was another Noah's
ark.' The young poet felt at home; how could a comic poet feel otherwise? They laughed, they
sang, they danced; they ate and drank, and played at cards. 'Macaroni! Every one fell on it,
and three dishes were devoured. We had also alamode beef, cold fowl, a loin of veal, a dessert,
and excellent wine. What a charming dinner! No cheer like a good appetite.' Their harmony,
however, was disturbed. The 'première amoureuse,' who, in spite of her rank and title, was
ugly and cross, and required to be coaxed with cups of chocolate, lost her cat. She tried to
kill the whole boat-load of beasts--cats, dogs, monkeys, parrots, pigeons, even the lamb stood
in danger of her wrath. A regular quarrel ensued, was somehow set at peace, and all began to
laugh again. This is a sample of Goldoni's youth. Comic pleasures, comic dangers; nothing deep
or lasting, but light and shadow cheerfully distributed, clouds lowering with storm, a distant
growl of thunder, then a gleam of light and sunshine breaking overhead. He gets articled to
an attorney at Venice, then goes to study law at Pavia; studies society instead, and flirts,
and finally is expelled for writing satires. Then he takes a turn at medicine with his father
in Friuli, and acts as clerk to the criminal chancellor at Chiozza.

Every employment seems easy to him, but he really cares for none but literature. He spends
all his spare time in reading and in amusements, and begins to write a tragic opera. This proves,
however, eminently unsuccessful, and he burns it in a comic fit of anger. One laughable love-affair
in which he engaged at Udine exhibits his adventures in their truly comic aspect. It reminds
us of the scene in 'Don Giovanni,' where Leporello personates the Don and deceives Donna Elvira.
Goldoni had often noticed a beautiful young lady at church and on the public drives: she was
attended by a waiting-maid, who soon perceived that her mistress had excited the young man's
admiration, and who promised to befriend him in his suit. Goldoni was told to repair at night
to the palace of his mistress, and to pour his passion forth beneath her window. Impatiently
he waited for the trysting hour, conned his love-sentences, and gloried in the romance of the
adventure. When night came, he found the window, and a veiled figure of a lady in the moonlight,
whom he supposed at once to be his mistress. Her he eloquently addressed in the true style
of Romeo's rapture, and she answered him. Night after night this happened, but sometimes he
was a little troubled by a sound of ill-suppressed laughter interrupting the tête-à-tête. Meanwhile
Teresa, the waiting-maid, received from his hands costly presents for her mistress, and made
him promises on her part in exchange. As she proved unable to fulfil them, Goldoni grew suspicious,
and at last discovered that the veiled figure to whom he had poured out his tale of love was
none other than Teresa, and that the laughter had proceeded from her mistress, whom the faithless
waiting-maid regaled at her lover's expense. Thus ended this ridiculous matter. Goldoni was
not, however, cured by his experience. One other love-affair rendered Udine too hot to hold
him, and in consequence of a third he had to fly from Venice just when he was beginning to
flourish there. At length he married comfortably and suitably, settling down into a quiet life
with a woman whom, if he did not love her with passion, he at least respected and admired.
Goldoni, in fact, had no real passion in his nature.

Alfieri, on the other hand, was given over to volcanic ebullitions of the most ungovernable
hate and affection, joy and sorrow. The chains of love which Goldoni courted so willingly,
Alfieri regarded with the greatest shyness. But while Goldoni healed his heart of all its bruises
in a week or so, the tragic poet bore about him wounds that would not close. He enumerates
three serious passions which possessed his whole nature, and at times deprived him almost of
his reason. A Dutch lady first won his heart, and when he had to leave her, Alfieri suffered
so intensely that he never opened his lips during the course of a long journey through Germany,
Switzerland, and Piedmont. Fevers, and suicides attempted but interrupted, marked the termination
of this tragic amour. His second passion had for its object an English lady, with whose injured
husband he fought a duel, although his collarbone was broken at the time. The lady proved unworthy
of Alfieri as well as of her husband, and the poet left her in a most deplorable state of hopelessness
and intellectual prostration. At last he formed a permanent affection for the wife of Prince
Charles Edward, the Countess of Albany, in close friendship with whom he lived after her husband's
death. The society of this lady gave him perfect happiness; but it was founded on her lofty
beauty, the pathos of her situation, and her intellectual qualities. Melpomene presided at
this union, while Thalia blessed the nuptials of Goldoni. How characteristic also were the
adventures which these two pairs of lovers encountered! Goldoni once carried his wife upon
his back across two rivers in their flight from the Spanish to the Austrian camp at Rimini,
laughing and groaning, and perceiving the humour of his situation all the time. Alfieri, on
an occasion of even greater difficulty, was stopped with his illustrious friend at the gates
of Paris in 1792. They were flying in post-chaises, with their servants and their baggage,
from the devoted city, when a troop of sansculottes rushed on them, surged around the carriage,
called them aristocrats, and tried to drag them off to prison. Alfieri, with his tall gaunt
figure, pallid face, and red voluminous hair, stormed, raged, and raised his deep bass voice
above the tumult. For half an hour he fought with them, then made his coachmen gallop through
the gates, and scarcely halted till they got to Gravelines. By this prompt movement they escaped
arrest and death at Paris. These two scenes would make agreeable companion pictures: Goldoni
staggering beneath his wife across the muddy bed of an Italian stream--the smiling writer of
agreeable plays, with his half-tearful helpmate ludicrous in her disasters; Alfieri mad with
rage among Parisian Mænads, his princess quaking in her carriage, the air hoarse with cries,
and death and safety trembling in the balance. It is no wonder that the one man wrote 'La Donna
di Garbo' and the 'Cortese Veneziano,' while the other was inditing essays on Tyranny and dramas
of 'Antigone,' 'Timoleon,' and 'Brutus.'

