Two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, one half pound of citron, one pound of sugar,
one pound of flour, eight ounces of butter, ten eggs, two nutmegs, one half ounce of mace,
one tablespoon of cloves, same of cinnamon, one glass of brandy, one tablespoon of baking powder,
one cup of molasses. Stir butter and sugar together until very light, beat whites and yolks
separately and bake in a slow oven.

ORANGE FROSTING.

One pound of frosting sugar, juice of one lemon and one orange, grate rind of orange.

CARAMEL CAKE.

FILLING.--Two cups of sugar, two thirds cup of milk, boil thirteen minutes, add butter the
size of a small egg, one good teaspoon of vanilla, when done stir till thick enough to spread
and not to run, bake in three, spread between and on top.

CHARLOTTE RUSSE CAKE.

MRS. RICHARD TURNER.

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, three tablespoons
boiling water. Bake same as sandwich cake.

THE FILLING.--One large cup of cream, one fourth package gelatine, dissolved in a little milk;
whip cream to a stiff froth, then add gelatine, sugar, flavoring to taste. Ice the top.

CORNSTARCH CAKE.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

One half pound of butter and two cups white sugar stirred together, add the yolks of four eggs,
one cup of milk, two cups of cornstarch and one of flour sifted well, one heaping teaspoonful
of baking powder and add the whites of the four eggs last. Flavor a little and line tins with
buttered paper.

SPONGECAKE. (Splendid.)

MRS. ERSKINE SCOTT.

Beat four eggs, over one cup of white sugar, for half an hour, then mix one cup of flour, after
it is in the pan pour some essence of lemon on the top and bake immediately.

SPONGE CAKE.

MISS K. H. MARSH.

Beat seven eggs together with their weight in white sugar for half an hour, then sift in the
weight of four eggs in flour. Add a little lemon to flavor and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven.

SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Ten eggs; very fresh, one pound fine sugar, the weight of five eggs in flour, the rind of two
lemons and juice of one. Break the eggs on the sugar and beat them twenty minutes with two
pronged steel carving fork until in a lovely light cream, then grate the lemon rind into it
with the juice of one lemon. Sift the flour several times and next mix in the flour most carefully
barely stirring to mix it in, if stirred too much it will make the cake heavy. Beat it with
the back of the fork towards you. The oven should be a little quick at first until the cake
rises, if baking too quickly place a piece of white paper over it and buttered paper should
be placed in the pans. N. B.--Delicious if properly made.

SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Six eggs, the weight of five in sugar, and three in flour, beat the whites and yolks separately,
lemon flavoring.

EASY SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. BLAIR.

Four eggs, two even cups of sugar, three-fourth's cup hot water, one and three fourth's cups
of flour, even measure, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, salt, flavor with lemon. Beat the eggs
separately. To the yolks gradually add the sugar. Mix well. Then add hot water. Mix the baking
powder with the flour and add a portion, then part of the well beaten whites, and so on until
all is used. Flavor. It will be thin but do not add any more flour, for it is all right. Bake
in a moderate oven. It may be baked very thin, cut into shapes like dominos; frost, and mark
the lines and dots with a camel's hair brush dipped in chocolate.

CACOUNA CAKE.

MISS K. H. MARSH.

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, seven eggs, one pound of raisins, wineglass of wine,
one nutmeg, one cup sour milk and one teaspoon soda, five cups of flour. Beat the butter to
a cream, then add the sugar and the eggs (well beaten), the fruit, spice and wine, then the
flour and lastly the soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk.

DELICIOUS ANGEL'S FOOD.

MISS RITCHIE.

Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth, then stir in carefully a cup and a half of
sifted granulated sugar, (or better still of castor sugar,) a teaspoonful of vanilla and one
cup of flour that has been sifted with a teaspoonful of cream of tartar five times; add this
very carefully and mix thoroughly, turn into an ungreased pan and bake in a moderate oven for
about fifty-five minutes. When done turn upside down and when cool it will either drop out
or it may be easily removed from the pan with a knife.

CHOCOLATE CAKE.

MISS M. A. RITCHIE.

Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in five tablespoonfuls boiling water. Cream half a cup of
butter adding gradually one and a half cups of sugar; add the yolks of four eggs, beat thoroughly;
then add the chocolate, half a cup of cream or milk, a cup and three quarters of flour, two
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs
to a stiff froth, stir them carefully into the mixture, and it is ready to bake either in a
loaf-pan or in three layer cake pans. Frost with boiled icing flavored with chocolate.

CHOCOLATE CAKE.

MRS. G. CRESSMAN.

One and one half squares of chocolate melted in one half cup of milk, two eggs, reserving white
of one egg for frosting, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful soda in one half cup of milk, and one
and one quarter cups of flour. Bake in dripping pan. Boiled frosting, one cup of sugar and
white of one egg.

MAPLE CREAM CAKE.

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls butter, a little less than two cups of flour,
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in two tins. Frosting, one cup and a half of maple sugar,
one half cup cream, boil until quite thick then beat until it creams, add the white of one
egg, keep beating until thick.

COCOA CAKE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

Rub one half cup butter to a cream, with one cup of sugar, add the beaten yolks of two eggs,
and beat well. Mix one and one half cups of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder and two teaspoonfuls
cocoa, thoroughly beat the whites of eggs stiff, measure one-half cup of milk, and then add
a little milk and flour alternately to the egg mixture, lastly add the whites of eggs and one
teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla. Bake in a shallow pan about twenty minutes and then frost
with plain cocoa frosting.

ICING.--Mix one half teaspoonful cocoa with one cup powdered sugar, add one tablespoonful lemon
juice and one tablespoonful boiling water or enough to make the sugar into a paste that settles
to a level the moment you stop stirring. Spread at once on the hot cake.

CORN CAKE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, sifted with the flour,
one egg, two tablespoons melted butter, two tablespoons sugar, little salt, one and one fourth
cups of sweet milk, bake in quick oven.

CREWE CAKE.

MISS M. C.

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, five eggs, one half
pound of butter, a little milk, vanilla or lemon flavoring.

CHRISTMAS CAKE.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

One cup melted butter, one cup milk, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, six eggs, six cups of
flour, two pounds of currants, two pounds raisins, two ounces peel, one teaspoonful of Durkee's
baking powder to every cup of flour.

COCOANUT CAKE. (Splendid.)

MISS. BEEMER.

Two cups of sugar and one half cup of butter beaten to a cream, slowly add one cup of milk;
mix two teaspoonfuls of baking powder with three cups of flour, add this gradually, mixing
and then beating, finally the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth and one teaspoonful
of lemon extract. This can be made in layers (three) or baked in a square pan.

ICING.

Whites of two eggs, one half pound of cocoanut, and enough powdered sugar to make it sufficiently
stiff, one teaspoonful lemon extract.

CREAM CAKE.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One cup of butter, one cup of cream or sour milk, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, four
eggs, one teaspoon soda mixed in vinegar and stirred in at the last. Bake in shallow tins.

RAILROAD CAKE.

One tea-cup flour, one ditto of sugar, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one half teaspoon of
soda, four eggs. This will form a thick batter. Butter pan and bake about ten minutes.

MOUNTAIN CAKE.

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one half pound well beaten butter, one cup sweet milk,
six eggs, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one half teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk.

MOUNTAIN CAKE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Three fourths cup of butter and two cups of sugar beaten to a cream, four eggs beaten very
light, three cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one half cup of sweet
milk with one teaspoonful of baking soda, bake about twenty-five minutes.

MARBLE CAKE.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One cup white sugar, one fourth cup butter, three eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately)
one half cup milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Separate this batter into
three parts. In one part put a square of chocolate dissolved in a little hot water, in another
part put one teaspoon cochineal to color it. Take a spoonful of each color (white, brown, pink)
alternately and bake in long tin pan.

ICING.

White of one egg well beaten, one teaspoon of vanilla, and pulverized sugar.

MARBLE CAKE.

MISS MILDRED POWIS.

(Light Part.)

One fourth cup butter, three fourths cup white sugar, one fourth cup milk, one cup flour, whites
of two eggs, one teaspoon of baking powder.

DARK PART.

One fourth cup butter, one half cup brown sugar, one fourth cup molasses, one fourth cup milk,
one and one fourth cups of flour, yolks of two eggs, one good teaspoon baking powder, one half
a teaspoon (good) each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and mace. Put into the pan a spoonful at
a time of each part.

MACAROON TART.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Make a paste of three quarters of a pound flour, five ounces of sugar, one half pound butter
and two eggs. Roll part of this out to one fourth inch thick layer and spread over a round
shallow cake pan about one half inch deep. Bake very slightly. When cold spread with thin layer
of jam or jelly, then put with bag and star tube, stripes of macaroon over and bake in a slow
oven nice and brown. Put some icing between the stripes after tart is baked.

PASTE FOR MACAROONS AND MACAROON TART.

Take one pound Hoide's Almond paste and mix fine with one pound powdered sugar then add gradually
the whites of about eight eggs until the paste gets smooth and soft enough to pass through
the bag and tube. For macaroons make paste softer and use round tube or teaspoon. Bake on paper
in slow oven.

BUCKEYE CAKE.

MRS. POLLEY.

Two cups sugar, two thirds cup of butter, three eggs beaten separately, one cup of sweet milk,
two teaspoons of baking powder sifted with three cups of flour, one teaspoon extract of lemon.

HARRISON CAKE.

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs well beaten, one cup molasses, one pound stoned
raisins, one teaspoonful each of saleratus, cloves, cinnamon and allspice, one nutmeg and four
cups of flour.

ORANGE CAKE.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOTT.

Two cups of flour, one scant cup of milk, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, two eggs,
one teaspoon soda and two of cream of tartar. Divided in six parts and spread as thin as possible
in pans of uniform size. Bake about three minutes: when done lay together with layers of orange
filling between. Method: cream sugar and butter together, then add milk in which the soda and
cream of tartar has been dissolved, then the eggs well beaten and lastly the flour into which
drop a pinch of salt. Beat well and don't scrimp the butter.

