July 1--German submarines sink British steamers Caucasian and Inglemoor, crews being saved;
German submarine sinks Italian ship Sardomene off Irish coast, two of crew being killed and
several wounded.

July 2--German submarines sink steamer Welbury, bark Sardozne, and schooner L.C. Tower, all
British, the crews being saved; captain of the Tower says that the submarine which sank his
ship was disguised with rigging, two dummy canvas funnels, two masts, and a false bow and stern,
having the appearance of a deeply laden steamer; at the entrance of Danzig Bay a Russian submarine
blows up by two torpedoes a German battleship of the Deutschland class, which is steaming at
the head of a German squadron, while a Russian destroyer rams a German submarine.

July 3--German submarines sink the steamships Larchmore, Renfrew, Gadsby, Richmond, and Craigard,
all British, and the Belgian steamship Boduognat, the crews being saved; Russian submarine
in the Black Sea sinks two Turkish steamers and one sailing ship.

July 4--German submarine sinks French steamer Carthage.

July 5--German submarines sink Norwegian bark Fiery Cross and British schooner Sunbeam.

July 10--British steamer Ellesmere, Norwegian steamer Nordaas, and Italian steamer Clio are
sunk by German submarines; one of the crew of the Nordaas is killed.

AERIAL RECORD

June 16--Official British statement shows that sixteen persons were killed and forty injured
by a Zeppelin raid on the northeast coast of England on June 15, and that twenty-four persons
were killed and forty injured by a Zeppelin raid on the same coast on June 6; German aeroplanes
drop bombs on Nancy, St. Die, and Belfort.

June 17--Sub-Lieutenant Warneford, who won the Victoria Cross for blowing a Zeppelin to pieces,
is killed by the fall of his aeroplane at Buc, France; French air squadrons bombard German
reserve forces at Givenchy and in the Forest of La Folie, dispersing troops about to attack
the French; squadron of Italian dirigibles bombards Austrian positions at Monte Santo and intrenchments
facing Gradisca, doing considerable damage; the squadron also damages the Ovoladeaga station
on the railroad from Gorizia to Dornberg.

June 18--Italian dirigible bombards an ammunition factory near Trieste.

June 19--In a duel between a French and a German aeroplane near Thann, in Upper Alsace, fought
at a height of 10,500 feet, the French aviator kills the German.

June 20--Germans shoot down one allied aeroplane near Iseghem, Flanders, and another near Vouziers,
in Champagne.

June 25--French aviators drop twenty bombs on the station of Douai, fifteen miles northeast
of Arras.

June 26--British aviators drop bombs near Roulers, Belgium, causing the explosion of a large
ammunition depot and the killing of fifty German soldiers.

June 27--French aeroplane drops eight shells on the Zeppelin hangars at Friedrichshafen.

July 1--French aeroplanes drop bombs on Zeebrugge and Bruges, but slight damage is done.

July 2--Austrian aeroplane bombards the town of Cormons, Austria, now in Italian hands, killing
a woman and boy, and wounding five other civilians.

July 3--German aeroplanes bombard a fort near Harwich, England, and bombard a British torpedo
boat destroyer flotilla; German aeroplanes also bombard Nancy and the railroad station at Dombasle,
southeast of Nancy, severing railroad communication with the fort at Remiremont; a German aeroplane
forces a French aeroplane to alight near Schlucht; German air squadron drops bombs on Bruges,
doing slight damage; French airmen bombard the railroad stations at Challerange, Zarren, and
Langemarck, in Belgium, and German batteries at Vimy and Beauraing, doing considerable damage.

