THE ARENA.

No. XXIII.

OCTOBER, 1891.

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.

BY GEORGE STEWART, D. C. L., LL.

When Longfellow had reached his sixtieth year, James Russell Lowell, then in his splendid prime,
sent him those lines as a birthday greeting. Lowell, since then, received in his turn many
similar tributes of affection, but none that seemed to speak so promptly from the heart as
those touching words of love to an old friend. To himself they might well have been applied
in all truthfulness and sincerity. Of the famous group of New England singers, that gave strength
and reality to American letters, but three names survived until the other day, when, perhaps
the greatest of them all passed away. Whittier and Holmes remain, but Lowell, the younger of
the three, and from whom so much was still expected, is no more to gladden, to delight, to
enrich, and to instruct the age in which he occupied so eminent a place. Bryant was the first
to go, and then Longfellow was called. Emerson followed soon after, and now it is Lowell's
hand which has dropped forever the pen. At first his illness did not cause much uneasiness,
but those near him soon began to observe indications of the great change that was going on.
At the last, dissolution was not slow in coming, and death relieved the patient of his sufferings
in the early hours of Wednesday, August 12th. Practically, however, it was conceded that his
life-work had been completed a few months ago, when his publishers presented the reading world
with his writings in ten sumptuous volumes, six containing the prose works, and the other four
the poems and satires. He was, with the single exception of Matthew Arnold, the foremost critic
of his time. Everything he said was well said. The jewels abounded on all sides. His adroitness,
his fancy, his insight, his perfect good-humor, and his rare scholarship and delicate art,
emphasize themselves on every page of his books. His political and literary addresses were
models of what those things should be. They were often graceful and epigrammatic, but always
sterling in their value and full of thought. Long ago he established his claim to the title
of poet, and as the years went by, his muse grew stronger, richer, fresher, and more original.
As an English critic, writing pleasantly of him and his work, in the London Spectator said
lately: "His books are delightful reading, with no monotony except a monotony of brilliance
which an occasional lapse into dulness would almost diversify."

James Russell Lowell was descended from a notable ancestry. His father was a clergyman, the
pastor of the West Church in Boston. His mother was a woman of fine mind, a great lover of
poetry, and mistress of several languages. From her, undoubtedly, the gifted son inherited
his taste for belles-lettres and foreign tongues. He was born at Cambridge, Mass., on the 22d
of February, 1819, and named after his father's maternal grandfather, Judge James Russell.
After spending a few years at the town school, under Mr. William Wells, a famous teacher in
his day, he entered Harvard University, and in 1838 was graduated. He wrote the class poem
of the year, and took up the study of law. But the latter he soon relinquished for letters.
His first book was a small collection of verse entitled "A Year's Life." It gave indication
of what followed. There were traces of real poetry in the volume, and none who read it doubted
the poet's future success in his courtship of the muse. In 1843 he tried magazine publishing,
his partner in the venture being Robert Carter. Three numbers only of The Pioneer, a Literary
and Critical Magazine, were published, and though it contained contributions by Hawthorne,
Lowell, Poe, Dwight, Neal, Mrs. Browning, and Parsons, it failed to make its way, and the young
editor prudently withdrew it. In the next year he published the "Legend of Brittany, Miscellaneous
Poems and Sonnets." A marked advance in his art was immediately noticed. His lyrical strength,
his passion, his terse vocabulary, his exquisite fancy and tenderness illumed every page, giving
it dignity and color. The legend reminded the reader of an Old World poem, and "Prometheus"
too, might have been written abroad. "Rhoecus" was cast in the Greek mold, and told the story,
very beautifully and very artistically, of the wood-nymph and the bee. But there were other
poems in the collection, such as "To Perdita Singing," "The Heritage," and "The Forlorn," which
at once caught the ear of lovers of true melody. A volume of prose essays succeeded this book.
It was entitled "Conversations on some of the Old Poets," and when Mr. Lowell became Mr. Longfellow's
successor in the chair of modern languages and belles-lettres at Harvard, much of this material
was used in his lectures to the students. But later on, we will concern ourselves more directly
with the author's prose.

In December, 1844, Mr. Lowell espoused Miss Maria White, of Watertown. She was a lady of gentle
character, and a poet of singular grace. The marriage was a most happy one, and it was to her
that many of the love poems of Lowell were inscribed. Once he wrote:--

    "A lily thou wast when I saw thee first,
       A lily-bud not opened quite,
       That hourly grew more pure and white,
    By morning, and noon-tide, and evening nursed:
    In all of Nature thou had'st thy share;
              Thou wast waited on
              By the wind and sun;
    The rain and the dew for thee took care;
    It seemed thou never could'st be more fair."

She died on the 27th of October, 1853, the day that a child was born to Mr. Longfellow.

    Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
      A shadow on those features fair and thin;
    And softly, from that hushed and darkened room,
      Two angels issued, where but one went in.

    All is of God!

A privately printed volume of Mrs. Lowell's poems appeared a year or two after her death. Mr.
Lowell's second wife was Miss Frances Dunlap, of Portland, Maine, whom he married in September,
1857. She died in February, 1885.

Mr. Lowell was ever pronounced in his hatred of wrong, and naturally enough he was found on
the side of Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and Whittier, in their great battle against that huge
blot on civilization, slavery in America. He spoke and wrote in behalf of the abolitionists
at a time when the anti-slavery men were openly despised as heartily in the North as they were
feared and detested in the South. He wrote with a pen which never faltered, and satire, irony,
and fierce invective accomplished their work with a will, and moved many a heart, almost despairing,
to renewed energy.

"The Vision of Sir Launfal" was published in 1848, and it will be read as long as men and women
admire tales of chivalry and the stirring stories of King Arthur's court. Tennyson's "Idyls"
will keep his fame alive, and Lowell's Sir Launfal, which tells of the search for the Holy
Grail, the cup from which Christ drank when he partook of the last supper with his disciples,
will also have a place among the best of the Arthurian legends. It is said that Mr. Lowell
wrote this strong poem in forty-eight hours, during which he hardly slept or ate. Stedman calls
it "a landscape poem," a term amply justified. We are constantly meeting these in the magazines
and in the newspapers. The vision did much to bring about a larger recognition of the author's
powers as a poet of the first order. He had to wait some time to gain this, and in that respect
he resembled Robert Browning, at first so obscure, at last compelling approval from all.

The field of American literature, as it existed in 1848, was surveyed by Lowell in his happiest
manner, as a satirist, in that clever production, by a wonderful Quiz, A Fable for Critics,
"Set forth in October, the 31st day, in the year '48, G. P. Putnam, Broadway." For some time
the authorship remained a secret, though there were many shrewd guesses as to the paternity
of the biting shafts of wit and delicately baited hooks. It was written mainly for the author's
own amusement, and with no thought of publication. Daily instalments of the poem were sent
off, as soon as written, to a friend of the poet, Mr. Charles F. Briggs, of New York, who found
the lines so irresistibly good, that he begged permission to hand them over to Putnam's for
publication. This, however, Mr. Lowell declined to do, until he found that the repeated urging
of his friend would not be stayed. Then he consented to anonymous publication. The secret was
kept, until, as the author himself tells us, "several persons laid claim to its authorship."
No poem has been oftener quoted than the fable. It is full of audacious things. The authors
of the day, and their peculiar characteristics (Lowell himself not being spared in the least),
are held up to admiring audiences with all their sins and foibles exposed to the public gaze.
It was intended to have "a sting in his tale," this "frail, slender thing, rhymey-winged,"
and it had it decidedly. Some of the authors lampooned took the matter up, in downright sober
earnest, and objected to the seat in the pillory which they were forced to occupy unwillingly.
But they forgave the satirist, as the days went by, and they realized that, after all, the
fun was harmless, nobody was hurt actually, and all were treated alike by the ready knife of
the fabler.

Apart from the humorous aspect of the fable, there is, certainly, a good deal of sound criticism
in the piece. It may be brief, it may be inadequate, it may be blunt, but for all that it is
truthful, and decidedly just, as far as it goes. Bryant, who was called cold, took umbrage
at the portrait drawn of him. But his verse has all the cold glitter of the Greek bards, despite
the fact that he is America's greatest poet of nature, and some of his songs are both sympathetic
and sweet, such as the "Lines to a Water-fowl," "The Flood of Years," "The Little People of
the Snow," and "Thanatopsis."

But now we come to the book which gave Mr. Lowell his strongest place in American letters,
and revealed his remarkable powers as a humorist, satirist, and thinker. We have him in this
work, at his very best. The vein had never been thoroughly worked before. The Yankee of Haliburton
appeared ten years earlier than the creations of Lowell. But Sam Slick was a totally different
person from Hosea Biglow and Birdofredum Sawin. Slick was a very interesting man, and he has
his place in fiction. His sayings and doings are still read, and his wise saws continue to
be pondered over. But the Biglow type seems to our mind, more complete, more rounded, more
perfect, more true, indeed, to nature. The art is well proportioned all through, and the author
justifies Bungay's assumption, that he had attained the rank of Butler, whose satire heads
the list of all such productions. Butler, however, Lowell really surpassed. The movement is
swift, and there is an individuality about the whole performance, which stamps it undeniably
as a masterpiece. The down-east dialect is managed with consummate skill, the character-drawing
is superlatively fine, and the sentiments uttered, ringing like a bell, carry conviction. The
invasion of Mexico was a distasteful thing to many people because it was felt that that war
was dishonorable, and undertaken solely for the benefit of the slaveholder, who was looking
out for new premises, where he might ply his calling, and continue the awful trade of bondage,
and his dealings in flesh and blood. Mr. Lowell's heart was steeled against that expedition,
and the first series of his Biglow papers, introduced to the world by the Reverend Homer Wilbur,
showed how deeply earnest he was, and how terribly rigorous he could be, when the scalpel had
to be used. The first knowledge that the reading world had of the curious, ingenuous, and quaint
Hosea, was the communication which his father, Ezekiel Biglow, sent to the Boston Courier,
covering a poem in the Yankee dialect, by the hand of the young down-easter. It at once commanded
notice. The idea was so new, the homely truths were so well put, the language in print was
so unusual, and the "hits" were so well aimed, that the critics were baffled. The public took
hold immediately, and it soon spread that a strong and bold pen was helping the reformers in
their unpopular struggle. The blows were struck relentlessly, but men and women laughed through
their indignation. There were some who rebelled at the coarseness of the satire, but all recognized
that the author, whoever he might be, was a scholar, a man of thought, and a genuine philanthropist,
who could not be put down. Volunteers were wanted, and Boston was asked to raise her quota.

The parson adds a note, sprinkled with Latin and Greek sentences, as is his wont. The letters
from the first page to the last, in the collected papers, are amazingly clever. The reverend
gentleman who edits the series is a type himself, full of pedantic and pedagogic learning,
anxious always to show off his knowledge of the classics, and solemn and serious ever as a
veritable owl. His notes and introductions, and scrappy Latin and Greek, are among the most
admirable things in the book. Their humor is delicious, and the mock criticisms and opinions
of the press, offered by Wilbur on the work of his young friend, and his magnificent seriousness,
which constantly shows itself, give a zest to the performance, which lingers long on the mind.
The third letter contains the often-quoted poem, "What Mr. Robinson Thinks."

Despite the sometimes harsh criticism which the Biglow papers evoked, Mr. Lowell kept on sending
them out at regular intervals, knowing that every blow struck was a blow in the cause of right,
and every attack was an attack on the meannesses of the time. The flexible dialect seemed to
add honesty to the poet's invective. The satire was oftentimes savage enough, but the vehicle
by which it was conveyed, carried it off. There was danger that Lowell might exceed his limit,
but the excess so nearly reached, never came. The papers aroused the whole country, said Whittier,
and did as much to free the slave, almost, as Grant's guns. In one of the numbers, Mr. Lowell
produced, quite by accident, as it were, his celebrated poem of "The Courtin'." This was in
the second series, begun in the Atlantic Monthly, of which he was, in 1857, one of the founders,
and editor. This series was written during the time of the American Civil War, and the object
was to ridicule the revolt of the Southern States, and show up the demon of secession in its
true colors. Birdofredum Sawin, now a secessionist, writes to Hosea Biglow, and the poem is,
of course, introduced as usual, by the parson. The humor is more grim and sardonic, for the
war was a stern reality, and Mr. Lowell felt the need of making his work tell with all the
force that he could put into it. In response to a request for enough "copy" to fill out a certain
editorial page, Lowell wrote rapidly down the verses which became, at a bound, so popular.
He added, from time to time, other lines.

During the war, Great Britain sided principally with the South. This the North resented, and
the Trent affair only added fuel to the flame. It was in one of the Biglow papers that Mr.
Lowell spoke to England, voicing the sentiments and feelings of the Northern people. That poem
was called "Jonathan to John," and it made a great impression on two continents. It was full
of the keenest irony, and though bitter, there was enough common sense in it, to make men read
it, and think.

The work concludes with notes, a glossary of Yankee terms, and a copious index. The chapter
which tells of the death of Parson Wilbur is one of the most exquisite things that Lowell has
done in prose. The reader who has followed the fortunes of the Reverend Homer, is profoundly
touched by the reflection that he will see him no more. He had grown to be a real personage,
and long association with him had made him a friend. On this point, Mr. Underwood relates an
incident, which is worth quoting here:--

     "The thought of grief for the death of an imaginary person is not
     quite so absurd as it might appear.

The volume "Under the Willows," which contains the poems written at intervals during ten or
a dozen years, includes such well-remembered favorites as "The First Snowfall," for an autograph
"A Winter Evening Hymn to My Fire," "The Dead House" (wonderfully beautiful it is), "The Darkened
Mind," "In the Twilight," and the vigorous "Villa Franca" so full of moral strength. It appeared
in 1869. Mr. Lowell's pen was always busy about this time and earlier. He was a regular contributor
to the Atlantic in prose and verse. He was lecturing to his students and helping Longfellow
with his matchless translation of Dante, besides having other irons in the fire.

It is admitted that the greatest poem of the Civil War was, by all
odds, Mr. Lowell's noble commemoration ode. In that blood-red struggle
several of his kinsmen were slain, among them Gen. C. R. Lowell,
Lieut. I. I. Lowell, and Lieutenant Putnam, all nephews. It is, in every way, a great effort, and
the historic occasion which called it forth will not be forgotten. The
audience assembled to listen to it was very large. No hall could hold
the company, and so the ringing words were spoken in the open air.
Meade, the hero of Gettysburg, stood at one side, and near him were
Story, poet and sculptor, fresh from Rome, and General Devens,
afterwards judge, and fellows of Lowell's own class at college. The
most distinguished people of the Commonwealth lent their presence to
the scene. There was a hushed silence while Lowell spoke, and when he
uttered the last grand words of his ode, every heart was full, and the
old wounds bled afresh, for hardly one of that vast throng had escaped
the badge of mourning, for a son, or brother, or father, lost in that
war.
    No poorest in thy borders but may now
    Lift to the juster skies a man's enfranchised brow.

"The Cathedral," dedicated most felicitously to the late James T. Fields, the author publisher,
written in 1869, was published early in the following year in the Atlantic Monthly, and immediately
won the applause of the more thoughtful reader. It is a poem of great grandeur, suggestive
in the highest degree and rich in description and literary finish. Three memorial odes, one
read at the one hundredth anniversary of the fight at Concord Bridge, one under the old elm,
and one for the Fourth of July, 1876, followed. The Concord ode appears to be the more striking
and brilliant of the three, but all are satisfactory specimens, measured by the standard which
governs the lyric.

"Heartsease and Rue," is the graceful title of Mr. Lowell's last volume of verse. A good many
of his personal poems are included in the collection, such as his charming epistle to George
William Curtis, the elegant author of "Prue and I," one of the sweetest books ever written,
inscribed to Mrs. Henry W. Longfellow, in memory of the happy hours at our castles in Spain;
the magnificent apostrophe to Agassiz; the birthday offering to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes;
the lines to Whittier on his seventy-fifth birthday; the verses on receiving a copy of Mr.
Austin Dobson's "Old World Idyls," and Fitz Adam's story, playful, humorous, and idyllic.

In his young days, Mr. Lowell wrote much for the newspapers and serials. To the Dial, the organ
of the transcendentalists, he contributed frequently, and his poems and prose will be found
scattered through the pages of The Democratic Review, The North American Review, of which he
ultimately became editor, The Massachusetts Quarterly Review, and the Boston Courier. His prose
was well received by scholars. It is terse and strong, and whatever position history may assign
to him as a poet there can never be any question about his place among the ablest essayists
of his century. "Fireside Travels," the first of the brilliant series of prose works that we
have, attract by their singular grace and graciousness. The picture of Cambridge thirty years
ago, is full of charming reminiscences that must be very dear to Cambridge men and women. "The
Moosehead Journal," and "Leaves from the Journal in Italy, Happily Turned," are rich in local
color. "Among My Books," and "My Study Windows," the addresses on literary and political topics,
and the really able paper on Democracy, which proved a formidable answer to his critics, fill
out the list of Mr. Lowell's prose contributions. The literary essays are especially well done.
Keats tinged his poetry when he was quite a young man. He never lost taste of Endymion or the
Grecian urn, and his estimate of the poet, whose "name was writ in water," is in excellent
form and full of sympathy. Wordsworth, too, he read and re-read with fresh delight, and it
is interesting to compare his views of the lake poet with those of Matthew Arnold. The older
poets, such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Spenser, Milton, Dryden, and Pope in English, and Dante
in Italian, find in Mr. Lowell a penetrating and helpful critic. His analyses are made with
rare skill and nice discrimination. He is never hasty in giving expression to his opinion,
and every view that he gives utterance to, exhibits the process by which it reached its development.
The thought grows under his hand, apparently. The paper on Pope, with whose writings he was
familiar at an early age, is a most valuable one, being especially rich in allusion and in
quality. He finds something new to say about the bard of Avon, and says it in a way which emphasizes
its originality. Indeed, every essay is a strong presentation of what Lowell had in his mind
at the time. He is not content to confine his observation to the name before him. He enlarges
always the scope of his paper, and runs afield, picking up here and there citations, and illustrating
his points, by copious drafts on literature, history, scenery, and episode. He was well equipped
for his task, and his wealth of knowledge, his fine scholarly taste, his remarkable grasp of
everything that he undertook, his extensive reading, all within call, added to a captivating
style, imparted to his writings the tone which no other essayist contemporary with him, save
Matthew Arnold, was able to achieve. Thoreau and Emerson are adequately treated, and the library
of old authors is a capital digest, which all may read with profit. The paper on Carlyle, which
is more than a mere review of the old historian's "Frederick the Great," is a noble bit of
writing, sympathetic in touch, and striking as a portrait. It was written in 1866. And then
there are papers in the volumes on Lessing, Swinburne's Tragedies, Rousseau, and the Sentimentalists,
and Josiah Quincy, which bring out Mr. Lowell's critical acumen even stronger. Every one who
has read anything during the last fifteen years or so, must remember that bright Atlantic essay
on "A Certain Condescension in Foreigners." It is Mr. Lowell's serenest vein, hitting right
and left skilful blows, and asserting constantly his lofty Americanism. The essay was needed.
A lesson had to be given, and no better hands could have imparted it. Mr. Lowell was a master
of form in literary composition,--that is in his prose, for he has been caught napping, occasionally,
in his poetry,--and his difficulty was slight in choosing his words.

As a speaker he was successful. His addresses before noted gatherings in Britain and elsewhere
are highly artistic. In Westminster Abbey he pronounced two, one on Dean Stanley, and the other
on Coleridge, which, though brief, could scarcely be excelled, so perfect, so admirable, so
dignified are they. The same may be said of the addresses on General Garfield, Fielding, Wordsworth,
and Don Quixote. Mr. Lowell on such occasions always acquitted himself gracefully. He had few
gestures, his voice was sweet, and the beauty of his language, his geniality, and courteous
manner drew every one towards him. He was a great student, and preacher, and teacher of reform.
He was in favor of the copyright law, and did his utmost to bring it about. He worked hard
to secure tariff reform, and a pet idea of his was the reformation of the American civil service
system. On all these subjects he spoke and wrote to the people with sincerity and earnestness.
When aroused he could be eloquent, and even in later life, sometimes, some of the fire of the
early days when he fought the slaveholders and the oppressors, would burst out with its old
time energy. He was ever outspoken and fearless, regardless, apparently, of consequences, so
long as his cause was just.

As professor of belles-lettres at Harvard University, he had ample opportunity for cultivating
his literary studies, and though he continued to take a lively interest always in the political
changes and upheavals constantly going on about him, he never applied for office. In politics
he was a Republican. His party offered him the mission to Russia, but he declined the honor.
During the Hayes administration, however, when his old classmate, General Devens, had a seat
in the Cabinet, the government was more successful with him. He was tendered the post of Minister
to Spain. This was in 1877, and he accepted it, somewhat half-heartedly, to be sure, for he
had misgivings about leaving his lovely home at Elmwood, the house he was born in, the pride
and glory of his life, the locale of many of his poems, the historic relic of royalist days.
And then again, he did not care to leave the then unbroken circle of friends, for Dr. Holmes,
John Holmes, Agassiz, Longfellow, Norton, Fields, John Bartlett, Whipple, Hale, James Freeman
Clarke, and others of the famous Saturday club, he saw almost every day. And then, yet again,
there was the whist club, how could he leave that? But he was overcome, and he went to Spain,
and began, among the grandees and dons, his diplomatic career. His fame had preceded him, and
he knew the language and literature of Cervantes well. It was not long before he became the
friend of all with whom he came into contact. But no great diplomatic work engaged his attention,
for there was none to do. The Queen Mercedes died, during his term, much beloved, and Mr. Lowell
wrote in her memory one of his most chaste and beautiful sonnets:--

    "Hers all that earth could promise or bestow,--
      Youth, Beauty, Love, a crown, the beckoning years,
      Lids never wet, unless with joyous tears,
    A life remote from every sordid woe,
    And by a nation's swelled to lordlier flow.
      What lurking-place, thought we, for doubts or fears,
      When, the day's swan, she swam along the cheers
    Of the Acalá, five happy months ago?
      The guns were shouting Io Hymen then
    That, on her birthday, now denounce her doom;
      The same white steeds that tossed their scorn of men
    To-day as proudly drag her to the tomb.
      Grim jest of fate! yet who dare call it blind,
      Knowing what life is, what our humankind?"

In 1880, he was transferred to London, as "his excellency, the ambassador of American literature
to the court of Shakespeare," as a writer in the Spectator deliciously put it. He had a good
field to work in, but, as the duties were light, he had ample time on his hands. He went about
everywhere, the idol of all, the most engaging of men. Naturally, his tastes led him among
scholars who in their turn made much of him. He was asked frequently to speak or deliver addresses
and he always responded with tact. The universities of Oxford and Cambridge conferred on him
their highest honors and the ancient Scottish University of Saint Andrew elected him rector,--a
rare compliment, Emerson only being the other citizen of the United States so marked out for
academic distinction. Some of his compatriots hinted that his English life was making him un-American.
Others more openly asserted that the United States minister was fast losing the republic feelings
which he took from America, and was becoming a British Conservative. The reply to those innuendoes
and charges will be found in his spirited address on Democracy, which proves undeniably his
sturdy faith in American institutions, American principles, and American manhood. Mr. Lowell
maintained to the letter the political and national views which had long guided his career.
His admirable temper and agreeable manner won the hearts of the people, but no effort was made
to win him away from his allegiance, nor would he have permitted it had it been tried. In addition
to being a great man and a well-informed statesman, he was a gentleman of culture and refinement.
His gentleness and amiability may have been misconstrued by some, but be that as it may, the
fact remains, he never showed weakness in the discharge of his diplomatic duties. He represented
the United States in the fullest sense of the term. In 1885, he returned to America, Mr. E.
J. Phelps taking his place, under President Cleveland. Though a Republican, Mr. Lowell differed
from his party on the presidential candidate question. He favored the election of the Democrat
nominee. Had he been in America during the campaign, he would have been found with Mr. George
William Curtis, and his friends, opposing the return of Mr. Blaine. From 1885 to the date of
his death, he added little to the volume of his literary work. He spent part of his time in
England, and part in the United States. A poem, a brief paper, or an address or two, came from
his pen, at irregular intervals. He edited a complete edition of his writings in ten volumes,
and left behind him an unfinished biography of Hawthorne, which he was preparing for the American
Men of Letters Series.

HEALING THROUGH MIND.

BY HENRY WOOD.

Truth may be considered as a rounded unit. Truths have various and unequal values, but each
has its peculiar place, and if it be missing or distorted, the loss is not only local but general.
Unity is made up of variety, and therein is completeness. Any honest search after truth is
profitable, for thereby is made manifest the Kingdom of the Real.

During the fifteen years just past, but more especially within the last third of that period,
a widespread interest has been developed in the question: Can disease be healed through mental
treatment? If so, under what conditions and subject to what limitations? Has mental healing
a philosophical and scientific basis, or is it variously composed of quackery, superstition,
and assumption? In the simplest terms, how much truth does it contain? Any candid inquirer
will admit that even if a minimum of its claims can be established, the world needs it. If
it can be of service in lessening or mitigating the appalling aggregation of human suffering,
disease, and woe, it should receive not only recognition, but a cordial welcome.

At the outset, it is proper to state that I have no professional nor pecuniary interest in
any method of healing. The evolution of truth is my only object. To this end, critical and
impartial investigation is necessary. While a personal experience of great practical benefit
first aroused my interest in the subject, I have cultivated conservatism and incredulity in
forming opinions, which are made up from a careful investigation of its literature, its philosophy,
and its practical demonstrations.

The first point noticeable is the peculiar attitude of popular sentiment toward this movement.
The unreasonable prejudice which has been displayed, and the flippant condemnation that it
has generally received in advance of any investigation, illy befit the boasted impartiality
and liberality of the closing decade of the nineteenth century. When the "Fatherhood of God"
and the "Brotherhood of Man" are so much on men's lips, and when the spirit of altruism is
supposed to be at the floodtide, here is what claims to be the essential quality of them all
denied even a hearing. The testimony of hundreds of clergymen, philanthropists, Christians,
and humanitarians, is classed as "delusion," and the experience of thousands who have received
demonstrations in their own persons [information of which is accessible to any candid investigator],
is passed by as an idle tale. It furnishes material for satire to the writer for the religious
weekly, and a prolific butt for jokes to the paragrapher of the daily journal. The news of
its failures is spread broadcast in bold head-lines by the sensational press. The fact that
other kinds of treatment denominated "regular" also fail, seems never to be thought of. The
mental healer, regardless of his success, is looked upon as an enthusiast, or worse, and even
the citizen who modestly accepts the theory of possible mind-healing, is regarded as credulous
and visionary by those who pride themselves upon their practicality. Why does this prejudice
exist, when advancement in physical science uniformly meets with a friendly reception?

Perhaps the most important reason why "there is no room in the inn" for truth of the higher
realm, is the prevailing materialism. Our western civilization prides itself upon its practicality;
but externality would better define it. We forget that immaterial forces rule not only the
invisible but the visible universe. Things to look real to us must be cognizant to the physical
senses. Matter, whether in the vegetable, animal, or human organism, is moulded, shaped, and
its quality determined by unseen forces back of and higher than itself.

We rely upon the drug, because we can feel, taste, see, and smell it. We are color-blind to
invisible potency of a higher order, and practically conclude that it is nonexistent.

One reason for the prevailing adverse prejudice is that this new thought disturbs the foundation-stones
of existing and time-honored systems and creeds. The literalism and externality of formulated
theology are rebuked by the simplicity of the spiritual and internal forces which are here
brought to light. The barrenness of intellectual scholasticism is in sharp contrast with the
overflowing love and simple transparency which reveal the image of God in every man, and as
an incidental result, possible health and harmony.

History ever repeats itself in the uniform suspicion with which advanced thought has been received
by existing institutions. It seems difficult to learn the lesson, that the human apprehension
of truth is ever expanding, while creeds are but "arrested developments, frozen into fixed
forms." As might be inferred, the clergy and the religious press, as a rule, are distrustful
of this advance, and see little that is good in it. It is fair to admit that this disposition
is often due more to misunderstanding, than to intentional injustice.

Another cause for its unwelcome reception is that it distrusts the dominant medical systems.
All honor to the multitude of noble and brave men who from the old standpoint have battled
with disease, and who have ever been on the alert to utilize every possible balm, in order
to restore disordered humanity. But systems are tenacious of life in proportion as they are
hoary with age. They mould men to their own shape; to break with them is difficult: tradition,
pride, professional honor, and loyalty, and often social and pecuniary status, are all like
strong cords, which bind even great men to their conventional grooves.

A further ground for the general unbelief is found in the peculiarities of the apostles and
exponents of the new departure. A division into schools and cliques, the out-cropping of personality,
exclusiveness, and internal criticism, statements of doctrine in forms likely to be misunderstood,
and a technical phraseology have, in a measure, prevented a free and full understanding of
principles, which are really simple and transparent.

Popular distrust is also awakened by the fact that, as a rule, mental healers have not regularly
studied pathology, nor even anatomy. But it will be seen that if the principle of mental causation
for disease is once admitted, mentality rather than physiology should furnish the field for
operations. In order to heal, the mind of the patient must be brought into unison with that
of the practitioner, and therefore, the latter must wash his own mind clean of spectres and
even of studies of disease, and fill it to overflowing with ideals of health and harmony.

Another reason for misapprehension is the fact that mind healing is not demonstrable by argument.
It is not intellectually apprehended. It concerns the inner man and can only be grasped by
the deeper vision of intuitional and spiritual sense. It is like a cyclorama, the beauty of
which is all inside. An outside view is no view at all.

Is there a necessity for some radical reinforcement to conventional instrumentalities to aid
us in our warfare with human ills? Is it desirable to find some new vantage ground, and some
more effective weapons? There can be but one answer. While surgery has been making rapid strides
toward the position of an exact science, confidence in materia medica is on the wane. The surgeon
is only a marvellously skilful mechanic who adjusts the parts, and then the divine, recuperative
forces vitalize and complete his work. He only makes the figures, while the principle solves
the problem. The adaptability of drugs to heal disease is becoming a matter of doubt, even
among many who have not yet studied deeper causation. Materia medica lacks the exact elements
of a science. The just preponderance for good or ill of any drug upon the human system is an
unsolved problem, and will so remain. The fact that a fresh remedy seems to work well while
it is much talked about, and then gradually appears to lose its efficacy, suggests that it
is the atmosphere of general belief in the medicine, and not the medicine itself that accomplishes
the visible result. It is well known that bread pills sometimes prove to be a powerful cathartic,
even from individual belief; but general belief would be necessary in order to make them always
reliable. General beliefs often have a very slight original basis, but gradually grow until
their cumulative power is enormous. If scientific, the same remedies once adopted should remain;
but instead, there is a continual transition. Fashions and fads are not significant of exact
science. Elixirs of life, lymphs, and other specifics have their short run, and then join the
endless procession to the rear. Many lives are sacrificed in experiments, but no criticism
is made because the treatment is administered by those who are within the limits of the "regular"
profession. After centuries of professional research, in order to perfect the "art of healing,"
diseases have steadily grown more subtle and numerous. Combinations, distillations, extracts,
and decoctions of almost every known material substance have been experimented with, in order
to discover their true bearing upon that ever-receding ideal, the banishment of disease. If
materia medica were a science, disease should be in a process of extermination. It does not
look as if this were expected, for doctors with diplomas are multiplying in a much greater
ratio than the population, and already we have more than three times the proportionate quota
of Germany. As our material civilization recedes from nature and grows more artificial, diseases,
doctors, and remedies multiply. What can be more beautiful and perfect than the human eye;
yet how commonly this organ requires artificial aid. The human senses are losing their tone,
and if present tendencies continue, it seems almost as if the future man would be not only
bald, but toothless and eyeless, unless he receives an entire artificial equipment. Only when
internal, divine forces come to be relied upon, rather than outside reinforcement, will deterioration
cease.

Scores of the most eminent physicians, who have risen above the trammels of system, have vigorously
expressed themselves regarding the utterly unreliable character of the drug system. Emerson
affirmed that "The best part of health is a fine disposition." Said Plato, "You ought not to
attempt to cure the body without the soul." A distinguished doctor of to-day remarked, "Of
the nature of disease, and from whence it comes, we still know nothing, but thanks to chemistry
we have new supplies of ammunition. For every drug of our fathers, we have now a hundred. We
have iodides, chlorides, and bromides without number; sulphates, nitrates, hydrochlorates,
and prussiates beyond count. But we do not believe in heroic doses. We give but little medicine
at a time and change it often." With such supplies of "ammunition," people within range are
liable to get hit.

A mere sketch of the rise and progress of the mind-healing movement may be proper before considering
its philosophy. Its novelty having worn off, it is perhaps less prominent as a current topic
than formerly, but its progress, though quiet, has been remarkable during the past five years.
Careful estimates by those in the best position to judge place the number of those who accept
its leading principles, in the United States, at over a million. Owing to the distrust of public
opinion, a large majority hold their views quietly but none the less firmly. But a small fraction
of its adherents are identified with its organizations, and yet within the limits of one school
[those distinctively known as Christian Scientists], there are about thirty organized churches,
and also one hundred and twenty societies which maintain regular Sunday services, though not
yet having church organization. There are also between forty and fifty dispensaries and reading
rooms, and a rapidly increasing literature, both of standard works and periodicals. One of
the other schools, distinctively known as Mind Cure, has also a large number of organizations
similar in character. The number of regularly graduated practitioners cannot be accurately
estimated, but they are numbered by the thousand. Of the million more or less of believers
in the principles of mind healing, it may be admitted that perhaps a large majority, in the
event of severe acute illness, would still make some use of old remedies, or would combine
both where circumstances would allow. Life-long habits are tenacious; to defy the force of
public opinion, the importunity of friends and the overwhelming aggregation of surrounding
belief, is a trying ordeal. Until public opinion softens, mental healing in its purity will
be mainly employed in chronic troubles, or at least for those which are not of a sudden and
acute nature. Mind healers would differ in acute cases, as to how far those who have had no
previous growth of trust in unseen forces should be left to those alone. In the present stage
of progress in mind healing, there should be nothing which would require anyone to dispense
with reasonable nursing nor with common sense. Some things which are ideally and abstractly
true, can only be fully realized in the future, and it is not well to prematurely use them
before the conditions are fully ripened.

All new innovations, no matter how much needed, have had to pass through a period when "they
were everywhere spoken against." The time is not distant when personal liberty in respect to
choice in one's method of healing may be enjoyed without unpleasant criticism or notoriety.

The more important schools which agree in the one cardinal principle of healing through mind,
designate their respective systems as Christian Science, Mind Cure, and Christian Metaphysics.
These terms, in common use, are somewhat interchangeable. There are also those who combine
mind healing with Theosophy, and still others who differ in non-essentials. What is distinctively
known as "Faith Cure" has little in common with those before named. Its theory is that disease
is healed by special interposition in answer to prayer. None of the other systems accept anything
as special, but believe in the universality and continuity of orderly law.

There are many leaders, authors, and workers in this movement, who are eminent; but as principles
are more important than personality, their names need not be enumerated.

Why did this movement originate among women, and why have so large a proportion of its exponents
belonged to the so-called weaker sex? Because the intuitional and spiritual senses of women
are keener than those of men, and mental healing is not the result of profound reasoning. It
is the seeming "weak things of the world which confound the strong." Men are largely immersed
in intellectual and formulated systems, and when the time was ripe for new light and attainment
in spiritual evolution to dawn upon humanity, it might have been expected that its first delicate
rays would be detected by woman.

The one great principle which underlies all mind healing is contained in the assumption that
all primary causation relating to the human organism is mental or spiritual. The mind, which
is the real man, is the cause, and the body the result. The mind is the expressor, and the
body the expression. The inner life forces build the body, and not the body the life forces.
The thought forms the brain, and not the brain the thought. The physical man is but the printed
page, or external manifestation, of the intrinsic man which is higher and back of him.

Materia medica deals with effects rather than primary causes. It seeks to modify the expression,
which can only be done through the expressor. It is axiomatic that to change results we deal
with causes. This principle is so widely recognized that it is seen in an endless variety of
phases, even among barbarous and half-civilized races. The charms and incantations used for
healing among Indian tribes have this significance. With all their barbarism they are near
to nature and keen in locating causation. With nothing more than a superstitious basis, charms,
incantations, dances, images, ceremonies, and shrines have a wonderful influence for healing.
They divert the mind from the ailment, and stimulate a strong faith which awakens the recuperative
forces to action, and thus cause a rapid recovery.

A traveller in Algiers relates the following conversation he had with a Moorish woman of high
class: "When ill do you go to the doctor?" he asked. "Oh, no; we go to the Marabout; he writes
a few words from the Koran on a piece of paper, which we chew and swallow, with a little water
from the sacred well at the Mosque. We need no more and soon recover."

If a skilful exercise of baseless superstition upon mind can be so efficacious, what results
are possible by a judicious use of the truth? Mental causation is abundantly proved by the
well-known effects of fear, anger, envy, anxiety, and other passions and emotions, upon the
physical organism. Acute fear will paralyze the nerve centres, and sometimes turn the hair
white in a single night. A mother's milk can be poisoned by a fit of anger. An eminent writer,
Dr. Tuke, enumerates as among the direct products of fear, insanity, idiocy, paralysis of various
muscles and organs, profuse perspiration, cholerina, jaundice, sudden decay of teeth, fatal
anæmia, skin diseases, erysipelas, and eczema. Passion, sinful thought, avarice, envy, jealousy,
selfishness, all press for external bodily expression. Even false philosophies, false theology,
and false conceptions of God make their unwholesome influence felt in every bodily tissue.
By infallible law, mental states are mirrored upon the body, but because the process is complex
and gradual, we fail to observe the connection. Mind translates itself into flesh and blood.

What must be the physical result upon humanity of thousands of years of chronic fearing, sinning,
selfishness, anxiety, and unnumbered other morbid conditions? These are all the time pulling
down the cells and tissues, which only divine, harmonious, and wholesome thought can build
up. Is it surprising that no one is perfectly healthy? If man were not linked to God, and unconsciously
receiving an inflow of recuperative vital force, the multitudinous destroyers would soon disintegrate
his physical organism. Can the building forces be strengthened, stimulated, and made more harmonious
and divine? Yes, through mind. The mind surely but unconsciously pervades every physical tissue
with its vital influence, and is present in every function; throbbing in the heart, breathing
in the lungs, and weaving its own quality into nutrition, assimilation, sensation, and motion.

A conscious fear of any particular disease is not necessary to induce it. The accumulated strands
of the unconscious fear of generations have been twisted into the warp and woof of our mentality,
and we find ourselves on the plane of reciprocity with disease. Our door is open to receive
it. What is disease? A mental spectre, which to material vision has terrible proportions. A
kingly tyrant, crowned by our own beliefs. It has exactly that power which our fears, theories,
and acceptances have conferred upon it. It is not an objective entity, but our sensuous beliefs
have galvanized it into life. "As a man thinketh, so is he." Realism to us may be conferred
upon the most absolute non-entity, if we give it large thought space, and fear it. As a condition,
disease is existent; but not as a God-created entity, in and of itself. It appears veritable
to us, because we have unconsciously identified the Ego with the body.

The material standpoint is false. We are immaterial; not bodies, but spirits--even here and
now. Having lost spiritual consciousness, we practically,--though not theoretically,--feel
that we are bodies. To grasp our divine selfhood and steadily hold it, disarms fear and all
its allies, and promotes recuperation and harmony. When the intrinsic man dethrones the false
and sensuous claimant, and asserts his divine birthright of wholeness [holiness] the body as
a correspondence falls into line and gradually expresses health on its own plane. Normally
and logically, that which is higher should rule the lower. The body, instead of being the unrelenting
despot, then becomes the docile and useful servant. In its subordinate position, where it rightfully
belongs, it grows beautiful and harmonious. Men live mainly in their bodily sensations. Such
living, though apparently real, is a false sense of life. There is a profound significance
in the scriptural injunction, "Take no thought for your body." The dyspeptic thinks of his
stomach, and the more he has it in mind the more abnormally sensitive it becomes. The sound
man has no knowledge of such an organ, except as a matter of theory. The body, when watched,
petted, and idolized, soon assumes the character of a usurper and tyrant. Retribution is sure
and inherent under such conditions.

A change of environment often cures, simply because novelty diverts thought which before has
been centered upon the body. The improvement, however, is often credited to better climate,
water, or air. Human pride seeks for its causation without rather than within. Secondary causation
is really effect, though not often so diagnosed. The draft occasions the cold, but it gets
its deadly qualities from cumulative belief and fear. Who has not seen persons in which this
bondage and sensitiveness have become so intense that even a breath of God's pure air alarms
them. In this way a great mass of secondary causation has been invested with power for evil,
and mistaken for that which is primary. Noting the tremendous power of grown-up accumulations
of false belief, we may glance at the modus operandi of mental healing.

There are two distinct lines of treatment which may effect a cure; one by intelligent and persistent
self-discipline and culture, and the other through the efforts of another person called a healer.
Often there is a combination of both. The power does not lie in the personality of the healer,
nor in the exercise of his will-power. Neither hypnotism nor mesmeric control are elements
in true mind-healing. The healer, in reality, is but an interpreter and teacher. The divine
recuperative forces which exist, but are latent, are awakened and called into action. The patient
is like a discordant instrument containing great capabilities, only waiting to respond in unison
to active harmony. His distorted thought must be elevated and harmonized, so that he will see
things in their true perspective. The healer gently guides him up into the "mount of transfiguration,"
where he feels the glow of the divine image within, and sees that wholeness is already his,
and will be made manifest as he recognizes it. A successful healer must be an overflowing fountain
of love and good-will. He is but a conduit through which flows the divine repletion. He makes
ideal conditions present. He steadily holds a mental image of his patient as already whole,
and silently appeals to the unconscious mind of the invalid, to induce him to accept the same
view. The patient's mental background is like a sensitive plate, upon which will gradually
appear outlines of health as they are positively presented. Improved views of his own condition
spring up from within, and seem to him to be original. As they grow into expression in the
outer man, his cure is complete.

Do failures occur? Undoubtedly, and often. Even infallible principles can have but imperfect
application because of local limitations. The failure of a particular field of grain does not
disprove the universal principle of vegetable growth. The imperfection of the healer, and the
lack of receptivity in the patient, are local limitations. There are sudden cures, but as a
rule recovery will be in the nature of a progressive growth. Lack of immediate results often
causes disappointment, and leads to an abandonment of the treatment before the seed has had
time to take root. The healer is the sower, and the patient's unconscious mind is the soil.
Often rubbish must be cleared away before any fertile spot is found. The cure must come from
within. Sometimes the patient is cherishing some secret sin, or giving place to trains of thought
colored with envy, jealousy, avarice, or selfishness. These are all positive obstacles to both
mental and physical improvement, for thoughts are real things. The patient must actively co-operate
with the healer, and make himself transparent to the truth. That which is misshapen has to
grow symmetrical. Even if the mind could be instantly permeated with the belief of health,
the body will need a little time to completely change its expression. Should these limitations
discourage anyone? Not in the least, but rather the reverse. The fact that the cure is in the
nature of a growth, is evidence that it is normal and permanent, rather than magical or capricious.
Limitations are present, but they can be surmounted.

The phenomenon of pain, so commonly regarded as an evil, is only a warning voice to summon
our consciousness from its resting-place in the damp, morgue-like basement of our being, to
the higher apartments, where sunshine and harmony are ever present. It is beneficent when its
message is heeded, for it is thereby transformed into blessing. Our resistance to it, and misunderstanding
of its significance, prevent that possible transformation. The process of cure through mind,
though in itself a steady growth, often appears to the consciousness of the patient as vibratory
and uneven.

Many could heal themselves without the aid of another, if they appreciated the tremendous power
for good of concentrated mental delineation of the ideal. By such exercises of mind, a wholesome
environment can be built up, even if at first the process seems almost mechanical. But instead
of such self-building, out of an infinitude of divine material, the average man is inclined
to vacate the control of his being, put his body into the keeping of his doctor, and his soul
[himself] into the care of his priest or pastor.

Efficiency for self-treatment is increased as the power of abstraction is cultivated. Hold
a firm consciousness of the spiritual self, and of the fact that the material form is only
expression made visible. Firmly deny the validity of adverse sensuous evidence, and at length
it will disappear. Silently but persistently affirm health, harmony, and the divine image.
Give out good thought, for thoughts are real gifts. In proportion as you pour out, the divine
repletion pours in. Look upon the physical self as only a false claimant for the Ego. Hold
only the good in your field of vision, and let disease and evil fade out to their native nothingness,
from lack of standing-room. Even a warfare against evils as objective realities, tends to make
them more realistic. At convenient seasons, bar out the external world, and rivet the mind
tenaciously to the loftiest ideals and aspirations, and for the time being forget that you
possess a body. Oh, victim of nervous prostration and insomnia, test these principles and see
if they are not superior to anodynes, opiates, bromides, and chorals, and be assured that they
leave no sting behind. The great boon which they bestow is not limited to nervous and mental
disorders; its virtue penetrates to the outermost physical limits.

The whole atmosphere of race thought in which we live is sensuous. This vast unconscious influence
must be overcome. The mental healer is like one rowing against the current of a mighty river.
Humanity is "bound in one bundle," and it is with difficulty that a few can advance much faster
than the rythmical step of the mass. Even the Great Exemplar in some places could not do many
mighty works because of surrounding unbelief.

Man is peering into the dust for new supplies of life, which are stored around and above him.
Is it not time that he should make a serious effort to throw off the galling yoke of cruel
though intangible masters, and achieve freedom and emancipation?

Turning to the religious aspect of mental healing, it is seen to be in harmony with revelation,
and also with the highest spiritual ideal in all religions. While rebuking scholastic and dogmatic
systems on the one hand, and pseudo-scientific materialism on the other, it vitalizes and makes
practical the principles of the Sermon on the Mount. The healing of to-day is the same in kind,
though not equal in degree to that of the primitive church. It is in accord with spiritual
law, which is ever uniformly the same under like conditions. The miracles of the Apostolic
Age were real as transactions, but their miraculous hue was in the materialistic vision of
the observers. The divine commission to preach the gospel and heal the sick, never rightly
could have been severed in twain, because they are only different sides of one Whole. By what
authority is one part declared binding through ages and the other ignored? Who will assert
that God is changeable, so that any divinely bestowed boon to one age could be withdrawn from
a subsequent one? The direct assurance of the Christ, that "these signs shall follow them that
believe," is perpetual in its scope, because "them that believe" are limited to no age, race,
or condition. As ecclesiasticism and materialism crept into the early church, and personal
ambitions and worldly policies sapped its vitality, spiritual transparency and brotherly love
faded out, and with them went the power--or rather the recognition of the power--to heal.

Wonderful works are not limited alone to those who accept the Christian religion; but in proportion
as other systems recognize the supremacy of the spiritual element, and catch even a partial
glow of "that true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world," their intrinsic
qualities will be made outwardly manifest. A right conception of God, as infinite present Good,
strongly aids in producing the expression of health. "In Him we live, and move, and have our
being." An abiding concept of such truth directly promotes trust, harmony, healing. Seeming
ills are not God-created powers, but human perversions and reflected images of subjective states.
As a higher and spiritual standpoint is gained, apparent evils dissolve, and then in bold relief
is seen the fair proportions of the Kingdom of the Real.

MR. AND MRS. HERNE.

BY HAMLIN GARLAND.

In May last, in a small hall in Boston, on a stage of planking, hung with drapery, was produced
one of the most radical plays from a native author ever performed in America. Mr. and Mrs.
James A. Herne, unable to obtain a hearing in the theatres for their play, which had been endorsed
by some of the best known literary men of the day, were forced to hire a hall, and produce
Margaret Fleming bare of all mechanical illusion, and shorn of all its scenic and atmospheric
effects. Everybody, even their friends, prophesied disaster. In such surroundings failure seemed
certain. But a few who knew the play and its authors better, felt confident that there was
a public for them. It was a notable event, and the fame of Margaret Fleming is still on its
travels across the dramatic world.

There were two reasons for this result, the magnificent art of Mrs. Herne, which "created illusion
by its utter simplicity and absolute truth to life," and second, because the play was, in fact,
as one critic said, "an epoch-marking play." It could afford to dispense with canvas, bunch-lights,
machinery, as it dispensed with conventional plot and epithet, and as its actors discarded
declamation and mere noise.

The phenomenal success of Mr. and Mrs. Herne brought them prominently before the literary public.
Interest became very strong in them as persons as well as artists, and from an intimate personal
acquaintance with them both, I have been asked to give this brief sketch of their work previous
to Margaret Fleming, for epoch-marking as it was, it was only a logical latest outcome of the
work the Hernes have been doing for the last ten years.

Mr. Herne is a man of large experience, having been on the stage for thirty years. He has been
through all the legitimate lines. He has been a member of a stock company, manager of theatres,
and author and manager of several plays of his own, previous to the writing of Margaret Fleming.
His first real attempt at writing was Hearts of Oak. The home scenes, and notably the famous
dinner scene, which became such a feature, showed the direction of his power. This play, produced
about twelve years ago with Mrs. Herne as "Crystal," was their first attempt to handle humble
American life, and was very successful.

Mr. Herne's next venture was an ambitious one. It was the writing of a play based upon the
American Revolution. In the spring of '86 he produced at the Boston Theatre The Minute Men,
where it was received with immense enthusiasm. It was somewhat conventional in plot, but in
all its scenes of home life was true and fine. The central figures were Reuben (a backwoodsman),
and Dorothy, his adopted daughter. Whatever concerned these two characters was keyed to the
note of life. Like all Mr. Herne's acting, Reuben was utterly unconscious of himself. He went
about as a backwoodsman naturally does, without posturing or swagger. With the sweetness and
quaintness of Sam Lawson, he had the comfortable aspect of a well-fed Pennsylvania Quaker.

Mrs. Herne's Dorothy was a fitting companion piece, faultlessly true, and sweet, and natural.
Her spontaneous laugh is as infectiously gleeful as Joe Jefferson's chuckle. Those who have
never seen her in this part can hardly realize how fine a comedienne she really is.

Mr. Herne's next play was simpler, stronger, and better, though less picturesque. Drifting
Apart was based upon the commonest of life's tragedies--the home of a drunkard. It is the most
effective of sermons, without one word of preaching. The drifting apart of husband and wife
through the husband's "failin'" is set forth with unexampled concreteness, and yet there is
no introduction of horror. We understand it all by the sufferings of the wife, with whom we
alternately hope and despair. I copy here what I wrote of it at the time when I knew neither
Mr. and Mrs. Herne, nor any other of their plays.

     The second act in this play for tenderness and truth has not been
     surpassed in any American play. A daring thing exquisitely done
     was that holiest of confidences between husband and wife. The
     vast audience sat hushed as death before that touching, almost
     sacred scene, as they do when sitting before some great tragedy.

     What does this mean, if not that our dramatists have been too
     distrustful of the public? They have gone round the earth in
     search of material for plays, not knowing that the most moving
     of all life is that which lies closest at hand, after all.

Mrs. Herne's acting of Mary Miller was my first realization of the compelling power of truth.
It was so utterly opposed to the "tragedy of the legitimate." Here was tragedy that appalled
and fascinated like the great fact of living. No noise, no contortions of face or limbs, yet
somehow I was made to feel the dumb, inarticulate, interior agony of a mother. Never before
had such acting faced me across the footlights. The fourth act was like one of Millet's paintings,
with that mysterious quality of reserve--the quality of life again.

In this play, as in Hearts of Oak, there was no villain and no plot. The scene was laid in
a fishing village near Gloucester. I can do no better than to give you a taste of the quaint
second act.

It is Christmas eve and Jack and Mary have been married a year. Jack is preparing to go out.
Mary is secretly disturbed over his going but hides it. "Mother" sits by the fire knitting.
Mary is sewing by the window.

     Jack. Say, Mary! D'you know, I can shave myself better'n any
     barber thet ever honed a razor?

     Mary. I always told you you could, Jack, if you'd only try.

     Jack. Feel my face now--ain't it as smooth as any baby's?

     Mary. (Feeling his face.) Yes, Jack, as smooth as any old
     baby's.

     Jack. Oh! say, look here now, thet ain't fair; a feller don't
     know nothin' till he's forty, does he, mother? Old baby's!
     (sitting on the arm of Mary's chair) I ain't too old to love
     you, Mary, that's one thing. I've loved you ever since you was
     knee-high to a grasshopper. I rocked you in y'r cradle--I'm
     blessed if I didn't make the cradle you was rocked in, didn't I,
     mother?

     Mother. Yes, Jack, an' d'ye remember what yeh made it out of?

     Jack. A herrin' box. (General laugh.)

     Mary. (Tenderly.) I married the man I love, Jack.

     Jack. Honest?

     Mary. Honest.

     Jack. (Kissing her.) Then what'n thunder you want to talk
     about a feller's gettin' old for? Where's my clean shirt? Say,
     mother, don't you t' hang up them stockin's.

     Mary. Oh! Jack, what nonsense.

     Jack. No nonsense at all about it. Christmas is Christmas. It
     only comes once a year an' I'm goin' to have th' stockin's hung
     up. So for fear you'd forgit 'em I'll hang 'em up myself.

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     Mary. Please, Jack, give me those stockings.

     Jack. Now it ain't no use, little woman. Them stockin's is
     a-goin' up. Mother, you give me three pins.

     Mary. Don't you give him any pins, mother. Suppose the
     neighbors should come in and see those stockings hangin' up.

     Jack. Let 'em come in, I don't care a continental cuss. Why,
     Mary, everybody wears stockin's nowadays, everybody that can
     afford to. I want the neighbors to see 'em, then they'll know
     we've got stockin's. (Holding up the three stockings.) Got one
     apiece anyhow.

     Mother. Oh, Jack, Jack! you'll never be anything but a great
     overgrown boy, if you live to be a hundred (goes off).

     Mary. (Tenderly.) Jack!

     Jack. Hey?

     Mary. (Putting her arms about his neck.) Did you never think
     that perhaps next Christmas there might be another stocking, just
     a tiny one, to hang in the chimney corner?

     Jack. Why, Mary, there's tears in your eyes. (Goes to wipe her
     eyes with the work she has in her hands; it is a baby's dress.)
     Bless my soul! What's this, Mary?

     Mary. (Falteringly.) Do you remember Bella and John in "Our
     Mutual Friend" that I read to you?

     Jack. Yes. Warn't they glorious?

     Mary. Well, these are sails, Jack, sails for the little ship
     that's coming across the water for you and me.

I quote a few lines from another scene.

     Christmas morning. Hester and Silas, some young friends, have
     come in to take breakfast. All are seated at the table with much
     bustle and laughter. Lish Mead, Mary's foster father, pokes his
     head in the door.

     Lish Mead. Wish you Merry Christmas.

     All. (Hilariously.) Merry Christmas! Come in.

     Lish. Can't less some on ye hol's th' door open.

     Silas. I'll hold it, Lish. (Lish enters, hauling a warehouse
     truck on which is a barrel of flour and a large hamper.)

     Lish. Mister Seward wanted I should hand ye these with his
     complements.

     Mary. Oh, how kind of Mr. Seward, and how good of you to bring
     'em.

     Jack. Set down here, Lish, and have a bite o' breakfast.

     Lish. (Taking off mittens, cap, comforter, etc.) Whatcher
     got? Chicking? Waal, that's good 'nough. (Seats himself at
     table.) Say, Jack, d' you know, you left a goose a-layin' on Jim
     Adamses bar las' night? I was goin' to fetch it along but Jim
     said you gin it to him, swore you made him a present on it.

     Mother. Jack Hepburn, did you give that goose--

     Mary. (Interrupting her.) Have a cup of coffee, mother.

     Lish. Jack, have you got the time o' day? (Chuckles.) Here's
     y'r new Waterbury. The boys wanted I should fetch her 'round; ye
     went off las' night without her.

     Jack. Ye can take her back again; I don't want her.

     Mary. O Jack!

     Jack. No, Mary, I don't. I wish the durned ol' Waterbury 'd
     never been born.

     Mary. The boys meant well, Jack; I wouldn't send back their
     present.

     Jack. All right, Mary, if you say so, I'll take her. There's
     one thing sure, every time I wind her up she'll put me in mind
     how durn near I come to losin' the best little wife in the whole
     world.

This play brought me to know Mr. and Mrs. Herne. It needed but an hour's talk to convince me
that I had met two of the most intellectual artists in the dramatic profession, and also to
learn how great were the obstacles which lay in the way of producing a real play, each year
adding to the insuperableness of the barriers. Mr. Herne was at that time (two years ago) working
upon a new play, in some respects, notably in its theme, finer than Drifting Apart. It was
the result of several summers spent on the coast of Maine, and is called Shore-Acres. The story
is mainly that of two brothers, Nathaniel and Martin Berry, who own a fine "shore-acre" tract
near a booming summer resort. An enterprising grocer in the little village gets Martin interested
in booms and suggests that they form a company and cut the shore-acre tract up into lots and
sell to summer residents.

Martin comes with the scheme to Nathaniel.

     Martin. I'd like t' talk to yeh, an' I d' know's I'll hev a
     better chance.

     Uncle Nat. I d' know's yeh will.

     Martin. (Hesitates, picks up a stick and whittles.) Mr.
     Blake's ben here.

     Uncle Nat. (Picks up a straw and chews it.) Hez 'e?

     Martin. Yes. He 'lows thet we'd ought to cut the farm up inter
     buildin' lots.

     Uncle Nat. Dooze 'e?

     Martin. Yes. He says there's a boom a-comin' here, an' thet the
     lan's too valu'ble to work.

     Uncle Nat. I want t' know 'f he dooze. Where d's he talk o'
     beginnin'?

     Martin. Out there at the nothe eend o' the shore pint?

     Uncle Nat. Yeh don't mean up yander? (Pointing with his thumb
     over his shoulder.)

     Martin. (Slowly.) Y-e-s.

     Uncle Nat. Dooze 'e calkalate t' take in the knoll thet looks
     out t' Al'gator Reef?

     Martin. I reck'n he dooze.

     Uncle Nat. Did yeh tell him thet mother's berried there?

     Martin. He knows thet 's well 's you do. (Sulkily.)

     Uncle Nat. What's he calkalate t' do with mother?

     Martin. He advises puttin' her in a cimitry up to Bangor.

     Uncle Nat. She'd never sleep comfort'ble in no cimitry, mother
     wouldn't.

     Martin. He says thet's the choice lot o' the hull pass'll.

     Uncle Nat. Then who's got so good a right to it as mother hez?
     It was all her'n once. Thet's the only piece she ast t' keep. Yeh
     don't begrutch it to her, do yeh, Martin?

     Martin. I don't begrutch her nothin', only he says folks hain't
     a-goin' to pay fancy prices 'thout they hev ther pick.

     Uncle Nat. D'ye think any fancy price hed ought to buy mother's
     grave?

     Martin. Yeh seem to kinder shameface me fer thinkin' o' partin'
     with it.

     Uncle Nat. Didn't mean to. Law sakes! who'm I thet I should set
     my face agin improvemints, I'd like t' know? Go ahead, an' sell,
     'n build, an' git rich, an' move t' Bangor, unly don't sell thet!
     Leave me jes' thet leetle patch, an' I'll stay an' take keer th'
     light, keep the grass cut over yander, an' sort o' watch eout fer
     things gin'rally....

     Ann. Sakes alive! Martin Berry, bean't you a-comin' to your
     dinner t'day? Come, Nathan'l, y'r dinner'll be stun cold. I say
     yer dinner'll be stun cold. 'T won't be fit f'r a hawg t'eat.

     Little Mildred. (Going to Nat, looks up into his face.) He's
     cryin', momma.

This estrangement, and the results that flow from it, form the simple basis of Shore-Acres,
a play full of character studies, and permeated by that peculiar flavor of sea and farm, which
the New England coast abounds with. The theme is the best and truest of all Mr. Herne's plays
of humble life.

Mr. and Mrs. Herne have lived for twelve years in Ashmont, a suburb of Boston. They have a
comfortable and tasteful home, with three children, Julie, Crystal, and Dorothy [aged ten,
eight, and five], to give them welcome when they come back from their seasons on the road.
Mr. Herne is very domestic and lives a very simple and quiet life. And he enjoys his pretty
home as only a man can whose life is spent so largely in fatiguing travel. He is fond of the
fields which lie near his home, and very many are the long walks we have taken together. He
is very fond of wild flowers, especially daisies and clover blossoms, and in their season is
never without a bunch of them upon his desk. Books are all about him. He writes at a flat-top
desk in the room he calls his, but his terrific orders to be left alone are calmly ignored
by the three children who invade this "study," and throw themselves upon him at the slightest
provocation. He is much tyrannized over by Dorothy, whose dolls he is forced to mend, no matter
what other apparently important work is going forward.

Mrs. Herne is a woman of extraordinary powers, both of acquired knowledge and natural insight,
and her suggestions and criticisms have been of the greatest value to her husband in his writing,
and she had large part in the inception as well as in the production of Margaret Fleming. Her
knowledge of life and books, like that of her husband, is self-acquired, but I have met few
people in any walk of life with the same wide and thorough range of thought. In their home
oft-quoted volumes of Spencer, Darwin, Fiske, Carlyle, Ibsen, Valdes, Howells, give evidence
that they not only keep abreast but ahead of the current thought of the day. Spencer is their
philosopher, and Howells is their novelist, but Dickens and Scott have large space on their
shelves. All this does not prevent Mr. Herne from being an incorrigible joker, and a wonderfully
funny story-teller. All dialects come instantly and surely to his tongue. The sources of his
power as a dramatist are evident in his keen observation and retentive memory. Mrs. Herne's
poet is Sidney Lanier, and she knows his principal poems by heart. "Sunrise" is her especial
delight. But to see her radiant with intellectual enthusiasm, one has but to start a discussion
of the nebular hypothesis, or to touch upon the atomic theory, or doubt the inconceivability
of matter. She is perfectly oblivious to space and time if she can get someone to discuss Flammarion's
supersensuous world of force, Mr. George's theory of land-holding, or Spencer's law of progress.

Her enthusiasms bear fruit not only in her own phenomenal development, but in her power over
others, both as an artist and friend. Wherever she goes she carries the magnetic influence
of one who lives and thinks on high planes. Her earnestness is tremendous.

They are both individualists in the sense of being for the highest and purest type of man,
and the elimination of governmental control. "Truth, Liberty, and Justice," form the motto
over their door. Mr. Herne has won great distinction as a powerful and ready advocate of the
single tax theory, and they are both personal valued friends of Mr. George. It is Ibsen's individualism
as well as his truth that appeals so strongly to both Mr. and Mrs. Herne. They are in deadly
earnest like Ibsen, and Margaret Fleming sprang directly from their radicalism on the woman
question. The home of these extraordinary people is a charged battery radiating the most advanced
thought. As one friend said: "No one ever leaves this house as he came. We all go away with
something new and vital to think about."

I give these personal impressions in order that those who saw them in Margaret Fleming may
know that its power was certainly a reflection of the high thought and purity of moral conviction
and life which Mr. and Mrs. Herne brought to its production and its performance. It voices
their love of truth in art, and freedom in life, and specifically their position on the woman
question.

The story of Margaret Fleming is briefly:--

Philip Fleming is a fairly successful business man in a town near Boston. He has a devoted
wife, a child just reaching its first year's birthday. The first scene develops the situation
by a conversation between Fleming and his family physician. Fleming offers a cigar which Dr.
Larkin refuses.

     Philip. You used to respect my cigars. (Laughing.)

     Doctor. I used to respect you....

     Philip. Why not, for heaven's sake?

     Doctor. Because you've no more moral nature than Joe Fletcher
     has.

     Philip. Oh! come now, Doctor, that's rather--

     Doctor. (Looking sternly at him.) At two o'clock last night,
     Lena Schmidt gave birth to a child.

     Philip. (His eyes meet those of the Doctor, then drop to the
     floor.) How in God's name did they come to send for you?

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     Doctor. I don't believe she'll ever leave that bed alive.

     Philip. Well, I've done all I can to--

     Doctor. Yeh have, eh?

     Philip. She's had all the money she needed.... If she'd a' done
     as I wanted her to, this never'd a' happened. I tried to get her
     away six months ago, but she wouldn't go. She was as obstinate as
     a mule.

     Doctor. Strange that she should want to be near you, aint it?
     If she'd got tired of you and wanted to go, you wouldn't have let
     her.

     Philip. (With a sickly smile.) You must think I'm--

     Doctor. I don't think anything about it. I know just what
     such animals as you are.

     Philip. Why, I haven't seen her for a--

     Doctor. Haven' t yeh! well, then, suppose you go and see her
     to-day.

     Philip. (Alarmed.) No, I won't. I can't do that!

     Doctor. You will do just that.

     Philip. (Showing temper.) I won't go near her.

     Doctor. (Quietly.) Yes, you will. She sha'n't lie there and
     die like a dog.

     Philip. You wouldn't dare--to tell--

     Doctor. I want you to go and see this girl! (They face each
     other.) Will yeh or won't yeh?

     Philip. (After a pause subdued.) What d' ye want me to say to
     her?

Fleming had been unfaithful to his wife at the time when he should have been most devoted.
The next two scenes show us Margaret in her lovely home with the baby crowing about her. Fleming,
with the easy shift of such natures, has thrown off his depression, and is in good spirits
the following morning. Dr. Larkin calls to warn Fleming that he had better take Margaret away
at once. She has trouble with her eyes which a nervous shock might intensify. He promises to
do so, but the act closes with Margaret's departure to visit Lena Schmidt, who has sent for
her. The third act takes place in Mrs. Burton's cottage, where the girl is dying. Dr. Larkin
enters, finds Mrs. Burton holding the babe in her arms. I quote the conversation as a fine
example of its truth and suggestion.

     Mrs. Burton. O Doctor! I didn't hear ye knawk. Did I keep y'
     waitin'?

     Doctor. No. How're the sick folks?

     Mrs. Burton. Haven't y' seen Dr. Taylor! Didn't he tell yeh?

     Doctor. Haven't seen him. I suppose you mean--

     Mrs. Burton. Yes.

     Doctor. Humph! When'd she die?

     Mrs. B. 'Bout half an hour ago.

     Doctor. I had two calls on my way here. When did the change
     come?

     Mrs. B. Ther' wa'n't no change t' speak 'f. About two hours
     ago, she et a nice cup o' grule, and asked me to fix the pillers
     so's her head 'd be higher. I done it. Then she asked f'r a
     pensul 'n paper, an' she writ f'r quite some time. After that she
     shet her eyes an' I thought she was asleep. She never moved till
     the Doctor come, then she opened her eyes 'n smiled at him. He
     asked how she felt, an' she gave a l-o-n-g sigh--an' that was all
     there was to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Margaret comes in and Dr. Larkin, horrified, tries in vain to get her to return. Maria, the
dead girl's sister, comes out of the bedroom, with a letter in her hand, and with barbaric
ferocity turns upon Margaret. A scene of great dramatic power follows, and under the stress
of her suffering, Margaret goes blind. It all ends in the flight of Fleming, and the destruction
of their home. Several years later a chain of events brings wife and husband together in the
office of the Boston Inspector of Police. Joe Fletcher, a street pedler, and husband of Maria,
the sister of Lena Schmidt, was the means of bringing them together again. Fleming runs across
Joe on the Common, and Joe takes him to see Maria. Margaret has found Maria and her child,
which Maria had taken. Philip's altercation with Maria brings them into the police office.
After explanations, the inspector turns to the husband and wife, and voicing conventional morality,
advises them to patch it up. "When you want me, ring that bell," he says, and leaves them alone.
There is a hush of suspense, and then Fleming, seeing the work he had wrought in the blind
face before him, speaks.

     Philip. Margaret!

     Margaret. Well!

     Philip. This is terrible

     Marg. You heard the inspector. He calls it a "common case."

     Philip. Yes. I was wondering whether he meant that or only said
     it.

     Marg. I guess he meant it, Philip. We'll be crowded out of his
     thoughts before he goes to bed to-night.

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     Marg. Ah, well, it's done now, and--

     Philip. Yes, it's done. For four years I've been like an
     escaped prisoner that wanted to give himself up and dreaded the
     punishment. I'm captured at last, and without hope or fear,--I
     was going to say without shame,--I ask you, my judge, to
     pronounce my sentence.

     Marg. That's a terrible thing to ask me to do, Philip.... (She
     hesitates.)

     Philip. Of course you'll get a divorce?

     Marg. Don't let us have any more ceremonies, Philip.... I gave
     myself to you when you asked me to. We were married in my
     mother's little home. Do you remember what a bright, beautiful
     morning it was?

     Philip. Yes.

     Marg. That was seven years ago. To-day we're here!...

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     I am calm. My eyes have simply been turned in upon myself for
     four years. I see clearer than I used to.

     Philip. Suppose I could come to you some day and say, Margaret,
     I'm now an honest man. Would you live with me again?

     Marg. The wife-heart has gone out of me, Philip.

     Philip. I'll wait, Margaret. Perhaps it may come back again.
     Who knows?

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     Philip. Is it degrading to forgive?

     Marg. No; but it is to condone. Suppose I had broken faith
     with you?

     Philip. Ah, Margaret!

     Marg. I know! But suppose I had? Why should a wife bear the
     whole stigma of infidelity? Isn't it just as revolting in a
     husband?...

     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .

     Then can't you see that it is simply impossible for me to live
     with you again? Philip. That's my sentence.... We'll be
     friends?

     Marg. Yes, friends. We'll respect each other as friends. We
     never could as man and wife.

     As they clasp hands, something latent, organic rushes over her.
     She masters it, puts his hand aside: "Ring that bell!"

Played as Mrs. Herne plays it, this act is the supreme climax toward which the action moves
from the first. It is her knowledge of its significance, her belief in its justice, and her
faith in its beneficence that makes her reading so intellectually powerful and penetrating.
She seems to be all of the woman, and something of the seer, as she stands there as Margaret
whose blindness has somehow given her inward light, and conviction, and strength. She seemed
to be speaking for all womankind, whose sorrowful history we are only just beginning to read
truthfully. It is no wonder that Mrs. Herne appealed with such power to the thinking women
of Boston. Never before has their case been so stated in America.

One of the most noticeable and gratifying results of Mr. and Mrs. Herne's performance was the
forced abandonment by the critics of conventional standards of criticism. Every thoughtful
word, even by those most severe, was made from the realist's standpoint. It forced a comparison
with life and that was a distinct gain.

The critics got at last the point of view of those who praise an imperfect play simply for
its honesty of purpose, and its tendency. My own criticism of Margaret Fleming is that it lacks
the simplicity of life. It has too much of plot. Things converge too much, and here and there
things happen. Measured by the standard of truth it fails at two or three points in its construction,
though its treatment is markedly direct and honest. Measured by any play on the American stage,
it stands above them all in purpose, in execution, in power, and is worthy to stand for the
new drama. It was exposed to the severest test, and came out of it triumphantly. What the effect
will be upon the American drama, it would be hard to say. Certainly whether great or small,
that influence will be toward progress, an influence that is altogether good.

Already it has precipitated the discussion of an independent American theatre, where plays
of advanced thought and native atmosphere can be produced. It has given courage to many who
(being in the minority) had given up the idea of ever having a play after their ideal. It has
cleared the air and showed the way out of the cul de sac into which monopoly seemed to have
driven plays and players. It demonstrated that a small theatre makes the production of literary
plays possible, and the whole field is opening to the American dramatist. The fact that the
lovers of truth and art are in the minority, no longer cuts a figure. The small theatre makes
a theatre for the minority not only possible, but inevitable.

In the immediate advance in truth, both in acting and play-writing, Mr. and Mrs. Herne are
likely to have large part. The work which they have already done entitles them not only to
respect, but to gratitude. They have been working for many years to discredit effectism in
acting, and to bring truth into the American drama. They have set a high mark, as all will
testify who saw the work in Chickering Hall. Now let who can, go higher.

SOME WEAK SPOTS IN THE FRENCH REPUBLIC.

BY THEODORE STANTON.

Last autumn the third French republic completed the second decade of its checkered existence,
and has thus proved itself to be the most long-lived government which France has known since
the advent of the great Revolution a century ago. No previous government has been able to stand
eighteen years, so that the present republic has outstripped all its predecessors, whether
republican, imperial, or monarchical, leaving even the most fortunate of them two or three
years behind, and bidding fair to increase the distance indefinitely. Its longevity has been
greater than the first and second republics taken together, which covered a period of a little
over sixteen years; while if we combine the existence of all three republics, equal to about
thirty-six years, we again find that no other regime has shown such prolonged vitality,--the
two empires having lived for only twenty-eight years, and the two monarchies for about thirty-three
and a half years.

But the early years of the third republic--from 1870 to 1879--like the declining period of
the first and second republics, were more monarchical than republican. And again, there are
so many weakening influences in the present institutions of France, that the decisive conclusions
which might otherwise be drawn from the foregoing considerations need, I regret to say, to
be considerably qualified. Previous to the election to the presidency of M. Grévy, in 1879,
the government was happily styled "a republic without republicans." But since that date the
same party--the republican--has had supreme control. Practically, therefore, the third republic
has been in operation about twelve years, and has, therefore, still to pass that dangerous
turning-point in the history of French governments, the twentieth year.

I now come to the consideration of some of the more serious causes of lack of faith in the
duration of the present regime. But it should be pointed out right here at the start that many
of these blemishes, most all of them in fact, have characterized every government in France,
so that they are not peculiarly republican; and I hasten to add that my object in pointing
them out, in analyzing them and dwelling on them, is not for the purpose of belittling or ridiculing
the estimable government now controlling the destinies of France. As an American and a republican
who has observed contemporary French history on the spot since 1874, who has been an eye witness
of many of the crucial episodes of this critical period, who has known personally several of
the leading actors and who wishes well for the present institutions, I take up this subject
not so much in order to find fault with what is, as to endeavor to discover how far these imperfections
and weaknesses endanger the existence of a form of government in which all Americans take such
a lively and sincere interest. Nowhere else in the civilized world, not even in France itself,
would the fall of the third republic cause such deep regret as in the United States. Hence
it is that we desire to know what likelihood there is of such a disaster being brought about,
in the hope that by calling attention to the dangers, we may, perhaps, do something to prevent
such a lamentable catastrophe.

The greatest peril that has threatened the republic since its foundation in 1870, was the recent
Boulanger adventure. Though this rather addle-brained general is now quite dead politically,
the causes which gave him strength and nearly plunged France once more into a chaos whence
would probably have issued a tyranny of some sort, still exist and are continually on the point
of cropping out again. The principal one of them is the lack of union among republicans. Just
as the republic owed its final triumph to the circumstance that the royalists and imperialists
could not coalesce during the years immediately following 1870, so Boulanger, backed by these
same royalists and imperialists, nearly won the day two years ago, almost wholly because the
republicans were divided among themselves. Union among republicans is scarcely less necessary
to-day than it was during the dark days of Marshal MacMahon's presidency and the threatened
Boulangist coup d'etat.

Since the republicans have had control of the two houses, the minority, especially in the chamber
of deputies, has been very strong, the Right to-day numbering about one hundred and seventy
deputies, and the Boulangists about thirty more, making a grand total of two hundred in a membership
of less than six hundred. That is to say, the Opposition, mustering more than a third of the
chamber. And when it is borne in mind that this minority is not simply a constitutional Opposition,
that its advent to power would mean the eventual overthrow of the republic, we perceive how
radically different such an Opposition is from that found in the parliament of other countries,
where whether the outs come in or the ins go out, no vital change occurs in the nature of the
government.

The existence of this recklessly revolutionary minority and the fickleness of republican union
are the chief causes of ministerial instability, one of the worst features of the present regime.
The ministry has changed so often during the last twenty years, that many republicans have
been led to doubt the advantages of the English parliamentary system, and have turned their
eyes toward its modification in the United States, where the existence of the Cabinet is independent
of a vote of the House. It was this admiration of the American system which led M. Naquet and
M. Andrieux--once prominent republican deputies, and the former still a member of the Chamber--to
espouse Boulangism, and the general obtained not a little of his popular strength from his
oft-repeated assertion that he would put an end to ministerial instability. That this evil
is not exaggerated, though the proposed remedy would probably have been worse than the disease,
is shown by the most casual glance at French cabinet history since the fall of the second empire.

Since September 4, 1870, up to the present day, there have been no less than twenty-eight different
ministries, which makes, on an average, a new ministry about every nine months. There were
three ministries in each of the years 1873 and 1877, while in 1876, 1879, 1882, 1883, 1886,
and 1887, there were two each. The longest ministry was the second, presided over by M. Jules
Ferry, which lasted from February 21, 1883, to April 6, 1885, or a few weeks over two years.
Gambetta's famous ministry--called in derision "le grand ministère"--lasted two months and
a half. M. de Freycinet, the present prime minister, has been in power four times since 1879,
the first time for nine months, the second for six months, the third for eleven months, and
the fourth since March of last year. Among the shortest ministries were those of M. Dufaure,
from May 18 to May 25, 1873; General de Rochebouet, from November 23 to December 13, 1877,
and M. Fallières from January 29 to February 21, 1883.

The persistency with which the reactionists refuse to recognize the legal government of France,
is another source of weakness in the present institutions. When M. Carnot gives a reception
at the Elysée Palace you never see a deputy or a Senator of the Right advancing to salute the
president and his wife, and when he offers a grand state dinner to parliament, he does not
invite members outside of the republican party because he would run the risk of receiving a
curt regret.[1] What is true of M. Carnot and the Elysée holds good also for all the ministers
and other high functionaries: they are left severely alone by Monarchists and Bonapartists alike.

      [1] There is a slight modification to be made in this statement.
          When the Bureaux of the two Chambers are invited either by
          the President of the Republic, the President of the Senate,
          or the President of the Chamber, no distinction is made in
          regard to politics, and on these occasions the members of the
          Right condescend to break bread with the republicans. I
          should explain that the Bureaux are composed of a president,
          four vice-presidents, and eight secretaries, chosen each
          session by the senators and deputies. Two of the
          secretaryships are given by courtesy to the Right.

This sulking in the tent on the part of the reactionists has in it something worse than their
simple absence from all official social ceremonies. The talents, experience, and patriotism
of this élite are almost wholly lost to the country, and to the government. From the ministries,
the judiciary, the foreign embassies, the prefectures, and the rectorships of the universities,
they are necessarily excluded. The ancient nobility of the old regime with its wealth and traditions,
and the younger nobility of the first and second empires; the blue blood bourgeoisée, especially
of the provinces, and the aristocratic ladies of all classes, turn their backs, almost without
exception, on the new order of things, and sigh for court and king or emperor.

In the provinces this detestation of the republic sometimes becomes ludicrous. In Montpelier,
for instance, "polite circles" absolutely boycott the republican official world. The prefect
has a palatial residence but does not dare to throw open his salons, for none of "the first
families" would respond to his invitation. When the mayor of the city, before whom all marriages
must be performed, is invited to the reception at the house, none of the reactionary coterie
will have a word with him and none of their young men will dance with his daughter. I have
heard similar stories from Pan, Castres, and Albi, and doubtless the same thing is true of
many other cities. But royalists and Bonapartists would not feel too much out of place in the
French republic, for it is astonishing, at least to an American, to see how many monarchical
customs have been preserved by the present government. And this brings me to the consideration
of a new source of weakness of the republic. I refer to its unrepublican features. A few examples
will explain what I mean.

The "military household" is one of the imperial institutions which the third republic accepted
and continued. The first president, however, did not revive it. "M. Thiers never had a military
household," M. Barthélémy Saint Hilaire, his private secretary and fidus achates writes me;
"however, in order to honor the army, he had two orderlies." But when Marshal MacMahon became
president in 1873, it was only natural that he should surround himself with soldiers. At first
the "Cabinet of the Presidency" consisted of three officials, one of them being a colonel.
In 1875 this cabinet had grown to five members, two of them colonels, and one an artillery
officer. In 1879 the "Cabinet of the Presidency" was reduced to two members with a colonel
at its head, but was supplemented with a "military household"--the first appearance of this
institution under the third republic--consisting of six officers, so that Marshal MacMahon
had seven officers in all as his immediate attendants.

At this point M. Grévy enters the Elysée. He throws out the military member of the Cabinet
of the Presidency, but increases by one his military household, so that there were as many
officers at the Elysée under the lawyer president as under the marshal president. Nor has M.
Carnot, the engineer president, departed from the example set by his two predecessors.

When I asked M. Barthélémy Saint Hilaire the explanation of this custom, he answered: "Our
kings were always provided with a military household, in which marine officers also figured.
It is doubtless this precedent which has surrounded civilian republicans with a body of officers.
The custom is due less to necessity than to a desire to show respect for the army and navy."

This same military parade is seen at the senate and chamber. During a sitting of either of
these bodies a company of infantry is kept under arms in a room adjoining the legislative hall,
and when the president of either house enters the building, he advances between two files of
soldiers presenting arms, and is escorted to his chair by the commanding officer.

This military element in the present government is as unnecessary as it is dangerous and pernicious.
It is dangerous because it might be turned by an ambitious president against the very constitution
he has taken an oath to defend. Two instances of this danger are afforded by the action of
Napoleon I. on the 18th Soumaire and by that of Napoleon III. on the 2d of December, 1852.
It is pernicious because it keeps alive in France that love for military display, and that
thirst for conquest, which have been the curse of the country since the days of Louis XIV.

Another one of these monarchical growths which still flourishes under the republic is the excessive
reverence and even awe which the public shows to its high officials. When President Carnot
appears anywhere, his reception scarcely differs from that shown to Emperor William in the
course of his numerous journeys. The president is allowed six hundred thousand francs for "entertaining
and travelling," and his balls and dinners at the Elysée, and especially his official tours
through the country smack of royalty to an extraordinary degree. A year ago I had an opportunity
at Montpelier to study one of these official visits in all its details, and I was astonished
at the royal aspect of the whole affair. The conferring of decorations, the dispensing of money
to deserving charities, the cut and dried speeches of the president and the mayors, the military
honors,--all this is far removed from that "Jeffersonian simplicity" which Americans at least
associate with a republic.

One of the most noticeable characteristics of these tours is the excessive manner in which
"the republic" is kept to the fore. In his speeches while "swinging around the circle" President
Carnot is continually informing expectant mayors and delighted citizens that "the government
of the republic" is watching over their every interest, and he then hastens to thank them for
the enthusiastic welcome which they have given to "the republic" in his humble person. The
phylloxera has destroyed the vineyards of this or that region, but "the republican minister
of agriculture" is successfully extirpating the injurious insect. The new schoolhouses of another
city owe their magnificence "to the deep solicitude of the republic for the education of the
masses," while the recently constructed bridge over the river is the work of "the engineers
of the republic." In a word, the farmer and his crops, the mechanic and his house-rent, the
schoolmaster and his salary, the wine growers and their plaster, the day laborers and their
hours of work, and of course the politicians and their constituents, if the former be republicans,
are, according to presidential oratory, the special care of the republic.

Nor is it President Carnot alone who thus proclaims the extraordinary virtues of the ever watchful
republic. The ministers, who are continually indulging in brief tours into the provinces, doing
en petit what M. Carnot does en grand, are even more assiduous than the president (because
their political position is less secure,) in sounding on all occasions the praises of the republic.

Nor is this ringing of the changes on the word republic confined to the oratory of presidential
and ministerial junketings. The obtrusion is brought about in many other ways. Thus M. Carnot
is always spoken of in the newspapers and elsewhere as "the president of the republic." M.
Waddington at London is "the ambassador of the republic." The district attorney is "the attorney
of the republic." An official bust of the republic is given the place of honor on the walls
of the town council chamber, the public schoolroom, and the courtroom. A new bridge will have
carved on its arches the monogram R. F. (République Française) while the same familiar letters
stare at you from the fronts of all the public buildings erected since 1870.

The practice is impolitic, to say the least. We have already seen how large and powerful is
the body of enemies of the present institutions. It is a mistake thus to force them to admit,
at every turn, that they are being governed by a regime which they detest. At a sitting of
the Chamber of Deputies, the Minister of Foreign Affairs declares that "the government of the
republic," not France, is negotiating this or that matter. The Minister of the Interior is
called upon to explain some rather high-handed measure against obstreperous agitators, and
he informs the deputies that "the republic" will not permit laws to be broken with impunity.
The Minister of Public Instruction presents a bill for the reorganization of the university
system, and in his speech in its support dwells on "the solicitude of the republic for the
education of the masses," thus exciting the opposition of a third of the members of the Chamber.
Some of the stormiest and most disgraceful scenes that have occurred in the Chamber of Deputies
during the past twenty years are traceable to this foolish parading of the word republic. The
republican party could cut the ground from under the feet of their opponents, and bring over
thousands of fresh recruits to the new institutions if they would only speak less of the republic
and more of France.[2]

      [2] When, during the Seize Mai crisis, MacMahon's message
          adjourning the sittings for a month was read to the Chamber,
          the republicans protested with repeated cries of "Vive la
          République!" to which the Right responded with "Vive la
          France!" A month later, when the decree dissolving the
          Chamber was laid before the Chamber, the republicans
          shouted: "Vive la République! Vive la Paix!" and the Right
          answered with "Vive la France! Vive le Maréchal!" When it
          was announced in full Congress that M. Grévy had been
          elected President, and again when M. Carnot's name was
          proclaimed in the same way, the republicans once more
          hurrahed for a form of government, while their opponents
          posed as the defenders of the country and the nation.

Another grave error of the republic is its break with the Catholic Church. I have no space
here to place the blame where it belongs. I wish simply to point out the lamentable fact that
the whole powerful organization of Rome is arrayed against the present government of France.
The danger from this source cannot be exaggerated. It has made the whole body of women enemies
of the republic, and "a government which has the women against it is lost," says Laboulaye.
And if Cardinal Lavigerie and the Pope are, at the eleventh hour, coming around to the republic,
is it to be wondered at that the Radicals declare that the Church is changing front for the
purpose of capturing rather than supporting the republic?

Attacking the purse is quite as grave a mistake as attacking the religion of the thrifty, economical,
and provident Frenchman. The financial policy of the republic is unpopular. The annual deficit
and the increasing taxation are crying evils even more difficult to handle than are religious
troubles, while conservative republican statesmen, like Senator Barthélémy Saint Hilaire, tell
me that the national debt keeps on increasing at such a rate that the bankruptcy of France
seems sure in the more or less distant future. The present tendency towards a high protective
tariff is an attempt to bring money into the national treasury, and thus relieve the peasant
and manufacturer not only from foreign competition, but from the disagreeable claims of the
tax-gatherer.

The Alsace Lorraine imbroglio must, of course, be mentioned in any list of the dangers threatening
the French republic. But it is not so dangerous as might appear at first blush, for, although
it is quite true that a war with Germany, especially if it should terminate disastrously, would
shake the republic to its foundations, and perhaps topple it to the ground, this same Alsace-Lorraine
difficulty is, in home affairs, almost the only question in whose consideration all parties
unite on the common ground of patriotism. A republican orator is sure to win the applause of
the Right when he refers in eloquent terms to the "Lost Provinces," "about which," as Gambetta
said, "a Frenchman should always think but say nothing."

My picture is full of dark colors. But I do not think that I have exaggerated the faults and
weaknesses of the third republic. But it should be borne in mind that in this brief paper I
have dealt alone on the faults and weaknesses. If I were to go farther and examine the merits
and strong points of the present government of France, I could easily prove that notwithstanding
these faults and weaknesses, it is highly probable that the various royal and imperial pretenders,
their children and their children's children, will, live and die without ever being able to
set up again in France the throne of the Capets or that of the Bonapartes.

LEADERLESS MOBS.

BY H. C. BRADSBY.

Office-holding politicians who have heretofore led the people, are leading them now, until
we, the hapless voters, find ourselves confronted with the following so-called issues, or rather
absurdities:--

Protection with reciprocity--Republicanism.

Free trade with incidental protection--Democracy.

The Democratic ex-President and the Republican President are in perfect agreement on the question
of remonetizing silver and many sub-leaders and able party newspapers on both sides are in
accord with these two successors of Washington, and the sub-lieutenants pass the word around,
"Do not discuss the silver question, it is an immaterial issue."

These are the anomalous conditions of American politics stated in all seriousness as they appear
to a layman.

A professional politician, even the man who hopes for future office, understands that real
issues are things to be avoided, because he would rather placate than antagonize, and he needs
friends and supporters, both in the nominating convention and at the polls; and he is in his
best form when he can campaign without a real issue and help select his adversaries "in buckram
and Kendall green" to have it out with, on the stump. He knows that a plump, simple issue would
reach the average voter's comprehension, and compel him to a simple "yes" or "no" that might
blast his hopes, destroy this happy equilibrium of voting parties, and the trade of politics
might actually go out of fashion. Pricked by his fears of all real issues, he becomes a genius
in inventing handy apparent ones that are usually glittering nothings--impalpable shadows about
which he can talk so learnedly by the life-time, and say nothing and mean nothing. So rapidly
has this expert developed in our land of politics that one man shouts, "I am for tweedle-dum"
and the other answers defiantly back, "I am for tweedle-dee," and the "campaign of education"
is on, the jockeys mounted, the race begins, and as the cloud of dust rises, "the greasy caps"
fill the air. "Spotted Free Trade" is ridden by the "Old Flag"; "Revenue Only" by the "Screaming
Eagle," and the excited voter stakes his future hopes on "Flag" or "Eagle," most probably as
did his father before him.

It seems this is the wretched outcome of the hundred years of American education in politics--making
of every man not only a sovereign, but a possible candidate for President. What is it all but
a roaring farce? If we could forget that this is real government coupled with all the pains
and penalties which are the heritage of ignorance, and not mere child's play, then even serious
intelligence might smile though commiserating the follies of grown men. Have we finally reached
the condition tending toward national political dementia, or is there no meaning whatever attached
any longer to the name of statesman?

Let us look a little further into the absurdities over which American statesmen are so vehemently
wrangling. Our government assumes the old time function of all governments to make and regulate
the currency or money for the transaction of business--a mere convenience for the measure of
values in buying and selling--in another way a thing performing functions similar to the yard-stick
in measuring, and the great statesmen are wrangling over the problem of what particular material
that convenience shall be made. And our nation, through Congress and the President, is ever
tinkering, changing, altering, and reversing regulations concerning this "value measurer"--this
convenient representative of property, and the basis of all commerce, gold, silver, copper,
nickel, and paper to-day, and on this basis contracts and multitudinous transactions are based;
then apparently that confusion and ruin may follow, an act of Congress may be passed to-morrow
changing the whole thing by demonetizing one or remonetizing the other; and the government
finally opens a junk-shop, and is engaged actively in the "second-hand" trade, or is in sharp
competition with the rag-picker. And our great political educators fall to wrangling about
a proposition, that could be paralleled only by some phenomenal crank beating up recruits for
a new party upon a platform that all yard-sticks must be made of hickory wood, and he shall
be deemed a counterfeiter who dares to use any other, and the length of the yard-stick must
be flexible so that "a yard shall always contain a yard's worth of cloth." The children open
a play store, and there the legal tender for all goods is pins, where the size of the pin or
the exact composition it is made of are never considered. There is, to my mind, no question
but the children should teach our great statesmen some of the fundamentals of common sense.
These are specimens of the economic problems evolved from our hundred years of voting experiment--the
ripened fruit of self-government. Books and papers are filled with discussions of whether both
gold and silver should be legal tender for debts or only gold. And the rank sophistries that
mark the flood-tide of a campaign discussion either of this or the problem of taxation are
surely to be considered among the curiosities of our civilization. Just why men should range
themselves on respective party lines on these questions and shut their eyes to evils that are
eating their way to the heart of government and that unchecked must end in common ruin, passes
comprehension.

The organization of a powerful party machinery with the authority to discipline recalcitrant
or discordant members is a natural outgrowth of our universal voting. The active politicians
and place hunters will control the machine, and when office, and place are made glittering
prizes, then comes the inevitable scramble, the selfishness, trampling the weak by the strong,
corruption, chicanery, the unspeakable crimes, and finally the Pandora's box is opened, and
the swarming evils darken the heavens. Inferior men with greatest cunning and least scruples
soon push their way to the front; all sight of good government is eventually lost, the Washingtons
and Jeffersons in time disappear with a constantly increasing ratio from public life, and the
end is the great Leaderless Mob and bloody chaos. Even at best our politicians and party publications
sing in unison, all struggling to the same end, victory at the polls and the elimination, as
far as possible, of real issues. Their quadrennial platforms are ever coming nearer and nearer
together--not omitting a plank expressing "profound sympathy" with the poor, persecuted people
of some part of the Old World. A large majority of the Democracy are openly in favor of free
trade and free silver, while the average "favorite son" is only in favor of "reform" in tariff,
and hence you can find men in favor of a prohibitory tariff calling themselves Democrats; while
many of the lay members of the Republican party are the earnest advocates of free trade and
free silver. If our statesmen do not use words to conceal ideas, then there is no question
but that the rank and file, those caring nothing about the offices personally, are in advance
of their leaders and party publications. Unfortunately the average voter studies the science
of politics--good government,--only when thumb-screwed by bad legislation. When happy and revelling
in plenty, this cunning thrift of politicians is good enough "statesmanship" for pretty much
all of us; then we can really admire the brightness of the great "Magnetic" when he says, "Boys,
I am a model high tarriffite, and in favor of reciprocity;" even the vitriolic ravings of the
iridescent--sparkling phrases without ideas, torchlight jeremaids about the poor Southern negro,
are all brilliant statesmanship; so long as the waters are smooth and prosperous, plenty is
coming to everybody. But when the pinch of misgovernment comes in the form of the gaunt wolf
then the people rise up, and without a "statesman" to lead, without a newspaper to educate,
but with a holy wrath, crush out these official puppets. For at least sixteen years the unbiased
intelligence of the Democratic party (not politicians) has been urging party leaders to take
the bold stand for free trade. During the same time the Republican voters have urged their
leaders to declare for "protection for protection's sake."

In 1888 the Republican Convention boldly challenged Democrats to the open issue of protection
absolute versus free trade. The best voters on the other side were eager to pick up this gauge
of battle, but their leaders, covert protectionists, and makeshift office seekers, bade them
nay, and a Democratic "stump speech" in that campaign was a curiosity. Part first would demonstrate
the infamy of all "protection" taxes; part second would demonstrate that the orator was in
favor of "protection" to a certain degree. Thus handicapped, the Democratic office seekers
fought out the long campaign and lost as they deserved. Happily for the country, because that
victory convinced every Republican in the land, except the man of Maine, that the people wanted
prohibitory tariffs, all foreign commerce destroyed, and that they honestly believed there
was such a thing as "home markets" to be regulated by statute. And the "three Bow Street tailors
in Congress" proceeded in all sincerity to carry out what they, in their simplicity, judged
to be the instruction given by the people at the polls. The "great secretary" alone of the
"smart" men of the land, understood the people in the '88 election better; he, it seems, well
understood that "protection" carried to prohibition was the yawning grave of any party responsible
for it without providing some loop-hole of escape in the burial ceremony, and this unequalled
politician in the nick of time startled the country with the cry of "Reciprocity"--spotted
free trade. His messmates turned upon him with objurgations deep, yet he had saved them from
themselves, by the bold dash of a "plumed knight." Had he been in the Kansas senator's place,
Kansas would have been again cajoled and humbugged into silence, and possibly have given an
increase on its 82,000 Republican majority.

Mr. Blaine was constantly defeated in his ambition to be President. General Harrison was successful
and fills the place that ex-officio makes him leader. He is nominally the party captain, while
in truth there is more real power in one hand of his armor bearer than there is in the loins
of the Executive. Now the author of the bill increasing taxes thinks he is on the road to the
White House by campaigning Ohio on the beauties of protection--with reciprocity or "free trade
in spots" left out entirely,--Blaine's happiest invention and the only thing that will save
"the Napoleon" if saved at all, from crushing defeat this Fall in his own State. The Democrats
have put up against him Governor Campbell with the plankless platform of the "McKinley bill,"
and an internal discussion on the silver question. Thus the two parties of that great State
are marshalling in battle array their lines under banners that might be labelled "Tweedle-dum"
and "Tweedle-dee." The last Democratic President was a product of the long successes of the
Republican party and its mistakes, chief among which was the covert act demonetizing silver
in 1873. It brought its train of wrong and disaster to our nation; while the people were unconscious
of the cause, yet they could feel the pangs, and results ripened in 1884 in the election of
the Buffalo mayor. As President and as ex-President he is the natural party leader, but he
has endorsed the monstrous act of 1873 in regard to silver, the very mistake that chiefly made
him President, and now should that bar forever the door of the White House to his re-entry
therein, the result would not be one of the seven wonders of the world.

These happenings, so fresh and patent, remind one of the sworn testimony of an eminent general
of the late war before the Senatorial Committee in describing the battle of Gettysburg: "After
the lines are formed and fighting commences all is confusion and hap-hazard." Apparently there
is no science in statesmanship, and our politics are but a ruthless trampling on the simple
maxims of political economy. These were the forces that secretly working through the patient
years of misrule and folly caused to bloom and fruit in a night, this stalwart tribe of rural
statesmen who so remorselessly struck down the Republican party in its State of largest majority,
and so disfigured the fortunes of the master polytechnic orator. A hayseed sprouted and grown
in a night like unto Jack's beanstalk, and without leaders--all concert action mere incidents,
the people marched to the polls in Kansas and amazed the world and themselves. The leaderless
mobs met other leaderless mobs--that proved to be mere skeletons of organizations led and composed
chiefly of wrangling, quarrelling, purposeless, and nearly idealess politicians. The leaderless
mob was in profound earnest while the "statesmen" as usual were merely masquerading, with no
other weapons of defence against attacks save that of Samson's when he fought the Philistines--all
jaw.

Politicians discuss with amazing brilliancy their beautiful issue of a little higher tariffs
or a little lower tariffs, while the people bluntly talk of protection to the full, or absolute
free trade. Politicians really enjoy having made gold the only money, and then talk learnedly
about the government buying so much metal monthly and coining it, so that silver will be both
money and not money, while the people talk about free silver or gold only.

These are the conditions existing on the only two national questions now under consideration.
To a layman's mind neither of them should have ever been made a national question at all. And
men called "great statesmen" who have pushed aside all real economic questions worthy of consideration
among civilized men, and forced these figments forward, are neither statesmen nor safe politicians.
Look at them! Their discussion of tariffs is whether we must have higher or lower taxes per
se. Their contentions on the money question are simply the vicious acts of Congress that are
the same as if we should pass laws every two years changing the length of our yard-sticks.
These are the great issues breeding our wonderful race of "great statesmen"--the mountain labored
and the little mouse came forth.

There are vital questions that should, especially in our experimental voting government, be
ever present to all our people for investigation and permanent settlement, to wit:--

How to turn back this stream of paternalism in government--the monster criminal, the murderer
of the dead nations and civilizations, the river of woe flowing forever round the world.

How to make the best of governments by ever-lowering taxes?

How to perfect a "civil service" by burdening officials, lessening fees and salaries, abolishing
patronage, and sealing salaries below the pay of similar private employ?

How to better education and thereby check this stream of "learned ignorance"?

How to reach the consummation of the best government because the least governed?

How to reform our judiciary until justice between men shall be nearly instantaneous and the
next cheapest thing to air and water?

How to save the weak (the majority) from the strong and selfish?

How to be the freest and therefore the best people that have ever lived?

How to prevent crime and suffering by removing causes?

How to destroy this struggle for government employ, this passion to be a public parasite and
live off of others' toil?

How to make and regulate nearly all government institutions upon the principle of our postal
system--self-supporting by the voluntary tax from those who use its powers or its offices?

How to eradicate all this flunkeyism that makes idols of office-holders--mere fetiches producing
a species of the lowest order of hero-worship--a nation of snobs who can meanly admire mean things?

How to call out statesmen and abolish demagogues?

How to understand that real statesmen repeal and never enact?

How to prevent governments from inflicting upon the innocents unspeakable wrongs, under the
monstrous plea that the few must suffer for the good of the many?

These and similar questions that are as deep as life itself, and that should come even to our
little children in their romps and plays, the same as they learn to avoid the pit, or to fear
a vicious dog, are the vital problems of mankind. These are questions essential to the preservation
of life, and touching the progress of civilization; the natural economic problems that real
statesmen should set before the people. Intelligent study and voting upon these and similar
questions would give us real statesmen for present demagogues.

The average American is always more than satisfied with his perfect surroundings so long as
he can point out his advantages over the wretched victims of paternalism in Europe. This is
both a low and ignorant self-laudation. Of course, wretched though you may be, you are incomparably
better off than the miserables of cruel Russia, because our national government could not possibly
be as outrageous as is of necessity that of the Czar. It has taken many centuries to evolve
such a monster cuttle-fish as the Russian government that has fastened its tentacles upon its
millions of people, and is slowly crushing out their lives. This is but government paternalism
full and ripe. Who shall say that if paternalism in this country goes on as it is to-day, growing
and strengthening, the time is not coming when we no longer can boast over the people of the
God-forsaken land? Mankind is much the same to-day and forever; so is government paternalism;
once a foothold gained, it can only be washed out in blood. The Russians have been giving over
their souls and their lives to their national fetich which has accepted their patriotic and
contrite offerings, and is now leisurely devouring them. The ancient migrating barbarian when
he camped at night, got his supper by cutting it out of the hams of the ox that had all day
borne him and his load on the weary journey--he had to have his supper, and just so it is with
Russian government. Just so it will be in any government when it is impossible longer for the
Leaderless Mob to spring into existence and into power.

Therefore, rural statesmen, all hail! Grant it that one of your political measures is rank
imbecility, your acts in exposing the essential knavery of our phenomenal humbugs are beautiful
and full of goodness and wisdom. And your worst, in the face of all jibes, is so incomparably
superior to those of the "great statesmen" that they may be esteemed actually respectable.
When the two parties had become Leaderless Mobs, because even their fictions or absurd issues
had reached a common point, then arose the people in the might of their Leaderless Mob, and
turned the river into the Augean stables. Who is it anyhow of the "magnetic" tribe that may
cast the first stone at the "haystack"? They simply broke party shackles and struck boldly
for justice,--blindly it may be--as well it should be, because they could not well hit amiss.
In this scramble and hurly-burly where is the "statesman" who can point to any similar act
of his own in behalf of his fellow-man? Their most arrant follies at least are not mean compared
to the "issues" as made up by our "great statesmen" of a little higher tax, or a little lower
tax, or a frequent change in the money standard of the country.

It is time for intelligent men to tire of all this burlesque of politics and this solemn joke
of calling it "great statesmanship," that is breeding these ungainly toadies--squat and warty.
A country is great only as her political institutions are good and wise--not merely when it
is strong in numbers, large in acres, and swarming with politicians and parasites that are
worshipped as great and good statesmen. That is not the kind of greatness of country that I
hanker for very seriously. I would wish a better education for our children than we have had--one
that would cure them of this disease of ignorance in politics, worship of demagogy and admiration
of that cheap and nasty politics that is our national disease, and that is making on our body
politic abhorrent warts and angry sores. The mistaken fanatics who are striving to put "God
in the Constitution" are not to blame; they are the offspring of this growing paternalism,
this fetich worship, this public education by these relays of "great statesmen."

MADAME BLAVATSKY AT ADYAR.

BY MONCURE D. CONWAY.

When Madame Blavatsky was on her way to found the Theosophical Society in India, I met her
in London, at the house of an American family,--devout spiritualists. She had a reputation
for picking up teapots from under her chair, and our hostess seemed somewhat disappointed that
she did not accord me some miracle. Although nothing unusual occurred, Madame Blavatsky was
herself sufficiently phenomenal to make the evening interesting. She was not then, 1878, so
huge as she afterwards became, and was rather attractive. She was humorous, entertaining, affable;
she had the air of a woman who had tried every experience,--the last person I should have suspected
of interest in spiritual or other philosophy. We next heard of her as the high priestess of
a new cult in India. Rumors reached London, where I was residing, that this new religion was
spreading among the Hindus, giving much trouble to the missionaries, and that Madame Blavatsky
was suspected of being in the pay of the Russian government. That way of meeting the new movement
was silenced by threats of prosecuting any who should make personal charges against the leaders
of Theosophy. It was presently reported that Madame Blavatsky had made converts of A. P. Sinnett,
editor of the Pioneer of India, and Mr. Allan Hume, formerly connected with the Indian government.
Presently Mr. Sinnett came to London, and gave us lectures in drawing-rooms on Theosophy. He
expatiated on the wonders performed by Madame Blavatsky with the aid of certain "Mahatmas,"
who by secret knowledge, had gained powers of prolonged existence, and of appearing in their
"astral" forms at vast distances from their retreat in the Himalayas.

As I was contemplating a journey round the world, which would bring me to India, I asked Mr.
Sinnett, in private conversation, whether I could make a pilgrimage to the abode of these mighty
Mahatmas, and converse with them. "Do you mean?" he asked, "as you now converse with me?"--"Yes."--"No."--"Why
not?"--"Oh, it would take too long to explain." Thereafter I tried to find out something that
would aid a practical investigation from Mr. Sinnett's books, but found them uninstructive
and sensational. In the autumn of the same year, I was in Australia, and found there a good
deal of excitement about Theosophy. At Sydney, where spiritualists and secularists had formed
a curious alliance, Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott were mentioned as grand personages,--she
a countess, he a famous warrior of the United States army. The marvels they wrought were of
only English size in Australia, but on the approach to India they loomed up in oriental magnitude.
Madame had only to walk in any garden to pick brooches from flowers, and find rupees at will,
like the fabled tree that yielded whatever was asked of it.

At length I reached the headquarters of Theosophy, at Adyar, some fifteen miles out of Madras,
and not far from St. Thomé, where the doubting disciple left his footprints blood-stained on
the spot of his martyrdom. Entering Madame's park I passed the pasteboard carcasses of two
blue elephants which had stood at the gateway on the occasion of a recent Theosophist anniversary.
Through the large and leafy park, luxuriant with palm and mango, I drove up to the handsome
mansion, with a growing suspicion that too much had been said of the sacrifices made by the
New York journalist and the medium in founding their new religion. While awaiting Madame's
appearance, I sat in the veranda, on a cushioned sofa of fine Indian work, beside a table holding
the newest books and magazines, receiving an impression of the charms with which self-sacrifice
has been invested since the days of poor St. Thomas. Presently I was approached by a young
Hindu, dreamy and picturesque, who said Madame Blavatsky would soon be with me. Next there
advanced a youth who almost seemed an apparition; he proved to be a "lay chela," and his snowy
garment gave a saintly look to his delicate beauty. He sweetly apologized for not taking my
offered hand, saying he was forbidden by his "Guru" (Mahatma) to shake hands, this being one
of the conditions of his farther development.

Madame Blavatsky gave me a cordial welcome. She sent off my carriage, and urged me to pass
the night. She had already been informed by our friend, Professor Smith, of Sydney University,
that I was coming, and regretted Colonel Olcott's absence. Her dress was the white gown, without
belt, which makes a noon costume of Russian ladies in summer. Her manner was easy, her talk
witty, and she disarmed prejudice by her impulsive candor. In addition to the two Hindus already
mentioned, others joined us, among these Norendranath Sen, editor of the Indian Mirror, and
relative of the Brahmo apostle Keshub Chunder Sen. All of them spoke good English. Another
person present was W. T. Brown, an educated young Scotchman, and Dr. Hartmann, of Colorado.
These young men, the Hindus especially, were eager to relate their marvellous experiences in
receiving from the distant Mahatmas immediate answers to their letters. The letters, it was
explained, were placed "in the shrine," and I at once proposed to write a note, referring to
some matter known to myself alone, in order to carry home evidence of the existence and knowledge
of the Mahatmas.

"What a pity!" broke in Madame Blavatsky, who had not participated in the conversation, "only
three days ago I was told by my Guru that the shrine must not be used for letters any more!"

"It has generally been my luck," I said, perhaps betraying vexation. "For thirty years I have
been unwearied in trying to test alleged phenomena, but have always happened to be a little
too late or a little too early. I was assured that it would be otherwise here!"

The young Hindus had eagerly approved my proposal to test the Mahatma, and had evidently heard
nothing of the prohibition. Madame Blavatsky, who betrayed no embarrassment whatever, presently
arose, invited me to accompany her, and led me to a secluded room. Here she shut the door,
lit a cigarette, offered me one, and sat serenely awaiting my next move. I told her that I
had a sincere purpose in coming. Some of my valued friends were deeply interested in Theosophy.
If extraordinary events were really occurring, none could be more ready to acknowledge them
than myself. I had a congregation in London, and we were not afraid to recognize new facts
if verified. "Now," I said, "what do these rumors mean? I hear of your lifting teapots from
beneath your chair, summoning lost jewels, conversing with Mahatmas a thousand miles away."

"Your questions shall be answered," said Madame Blavatsky. "You are a public teacher and ought
to know the truth. It is glamour; people think they see what they do not see. That is the whole
of it."

I could not repress some homage to the sagacity of this unwitnessed confession. Forewarned
that I was coming, Madame had received from her Guru a convenient prohibition against further
use of the shrine as a post-office; and now, by one clever stroke, she altogether forestalled
an inconvenient investigation. Obstruction to experiments, or evasion, would have been such
confession as I could use. Failure to obtain phenomena that could be verified might subtly
awaken skepticism in the simple-hearted Hindus around her. But this secret confession, which
might be repudiated if necessary, raised my whole siege at once.[3] And the confession itself,
while it admitted the unreality of the miracles, left a marvel,--namely, her power to cause
the hallucinations. I remembered the legend of Glam, from whom came our word "glamour," and
had a droll feeling of being defeated, like Grettir, in the moment of his victory over that
moonshine-giant. As says the Saga, "even as Glam fell a cloud was driven from the moon, and
Glam said, Exceedingly eager hast thou sought to meet me, Grettir, but no wonder will it be
deemed, though thou gettest no good hap of me." Even so it proved lately, when I told my friend,
Anne Besant, that Madame Blavatsky had admitted it was glamour. She reminded me of the power
still left unexplained, to cast the glamour.

      [3] Although this interview is here printed for the first time,
          I mentioned it to some of Madame Blavatsky's friends so that
          she might have an opportunity of giving her version. I am
          told that she said she gave me an answer as directed by her
          Guru. I must conclude therefore that unless the Gurus are all
          glamour, they must be raised by their superhuman merits above
          the obligations of truth.

The remaining hours of my visit at Adyar were occupied with study of the subjects of Madame's
hypnotic powers,--as I supposed them to be. The young Hindus, with their refined faces and
symbolical draperies, conveyed an impression of being like the magical mangoes which the jugglers
evoke, looking at them from time to time to see how they are growing. There were phases of
chelahood, with precise terms for each. I was invited to visit the shrine. It was in a small
room, and stood against the wall, reaching nearly to the ceiling. It was decorated with mystical
emblems and figures, and a breath of incense came when the doors were opened. The Hindus prostrated
themselves on the floor, and hid their faces; it was explained as their oriental custom, but
it is certainly favorable to Thaumaturgy. Two days afterwards I was told, being then at sea,
that while we visited the shrine a mysterious bell had sounded. No such incident was mentioned
at the time, and I felt quite sure that Madame Blavatsky and myself were the only persons present
whose testimony would be trustworthy. The interior of the shrine was inlaid with metal work.
There were various figures, Buddha being in the centre, and framed "portraits" of Mahatmas
Koothoomi and Moria. Each portrait was about seven inches high, and if drawn, as I understood,
by astral art, it may be hoped the process will remain occult. Koothoomi, who somewhat resembled
an old London portrait I have of Rammohun Roy, holds a small barrel-shaped praying-machine
on his head.

A considerable company surrounded the dinner table, and included one or two whom I had not
seen. Madame Blavatsky was a genial hostess. When a disciple told some miraculous experience
she would turn to me and say, "Now think of that!" She ate little, but smoked a cigarette during
the repast. Late in the evening, as I insisted on leaving, she ordered her carriage for me,
and promised me an astral apparition of herself after I should reach London. I did not find
in Madame Blavatsky the coarseness of which I had heard, and suspect it is mainly due to a
prejudice against ladies smoking.

Our ship between Madras and Calcutta was a floating epitome of the world. There were missionaries
contending with pundits, and world travellers lazily amused by discussions involving the eternal
welfare of the human race. But the disputes had a hollow and perfunctory sound, and the cultured
Englishmen stood apart. Mozoomdar, of the Brahmo-Somaj, preached us an ordinary Unitarian sermon.
In private he expressed to me a horror of Madame Blavatsky, but he did not appear to me possessed
of such religious enthusiasm as Norendranath Sen, whom I had met at Adyar. The latter reproved
me for wishing to see Madame Blavatsky's wonders, instead of recognizing in Theosophy a movement
that was saving India from being dragged into revolting dogmas called Christianity, its superstitions,
discords, inhumanities. Even admitting that some delusions, or impositions, have been connected
with the movement, they would pass away if liberal men did not make so much of them, and would
help to develop Theosophy into a religion related to the devout and poetic genius of the oriental
world. The words of this thoughtful Hindu impressed me much. I need only look about me on the
ship to recognize the fact that the West is overturning the deities and altars of the East,
but has no religion to give these instinctive worshippers. The scholarly English Church would
appear to have become conscious of this, and is leaving the work of propagandism to vulgar
and ignorant sects. There seems to be nothing offered the young Hindus graduated in the universities
of India except a repulsive "Salvationism" on the one hand, and a cold Agnosticism on the other.
I had conversed with a company of students at Madras, and found them hardly able to understand
the interest with which I followed the processions of "idols" about the streets, such things
being looked on by them much as a march of the Salvation Army might be regarded by Oxonians.
They had little interest in Christianity, but some of them spoke reverently of Buddha, and
probably Theosophy has done something to revive in India love for that long banished teacher.

On the whole, I found the little company in their beautiful retreat at Adyar becoming more
and more picturesque in the distance. It seems a hard, precipitous fall from visions of Indra's
paradise to a materialistic world of predatory evolution. The youth at Adyar, dreaming of Mahatmas
in mystical mountains, and evolving a natural supernaturalism, may be dwelling amid illusions;
but, as Shakespeare tells us, our little life is rounded with a sleep,--a dreamland. If Madame
Blavatsky had recovered Prospero's buried wand, and amid the dry and dusty realism of our time
raised for her followers a realm of faërie, beguiling them from scenes of falling temples and
fading heavens, were it not cruel to break her wand, even though it be glamour? I remember
at Concord, in my youth, a little controversy in which miracles were critically handled, some
ladies present being distressed. Emerson had remained silent, and on our way home said, "After
all it appears doubtful whether, when children are enjoying a play, one must tell them the
scene is paint and pasteboard, and the fairy's jewels but glass."

So I bore away from Adyar a slight sprinkle of Madame Blavatsky's moonshine. But it was rudely
dispelled in Calcutta and Bombay, where the priestess had worn out her welcome by attempts
at fraud. One of these instances was related by Mr. J. D. Broughton, a gentleman connected
with the Indian government, to whom I carried a letter of introduction. Unwilling to accept
any such fact without verification, I afterwards corresponded with those cognizant of the facts,
and have before me now their letters establishing the statements of the following from Mr.
Broughton.

     "I was in Calcutta, and a friend was staying with me, Mr. H.
     Blanford, a Fellow of the Royal Society, and head of the
     Meteorological Department,--a practical man, not, I think,
     disposed to judge wrongly one way or the other. We both know Mrs.
     Gordon [a spiritualist] the lady to whom Mr. Eglinton [a
     spiritualist medium of London] wrote--or says he wrote--from the
     Vega, while at sea; and I am on friendly terms with her, as is
     Mr. Blanford to the best of my belief. She called at my house a
     day or two after the Vega had left Colombo, and produced a
     letter, an envelope, and two or three cards. The letter was from
     Mr. Eglinton. It was not in the envelope, but was attached to it
     by a string in the corner, which was passed through the corner of
     the cards. These cards had writing upon them, which we were told
     was the writing of Madame Blavatsky, then at Poona. The writing
     on the cards referred to the contents of the letter. The envelope
     had three crosses on the back of it. Mrs. Gordon stated that
     these letters had been brought to her the day before by what are
     called astral means, having been conveyed from the Vega, then on
     the way from Colombo to Aden, first to Poona, and then from Poona
     to her residence in Housah, a suburb of Calcutta. I have not the
     slightest doubt that Mrs. Gordon firmly believed this, and I am
     under the impression that she believes it still. Mr. Blanford and
     I, however, ventured to ask a few questions as to the
     circumstances under which the letters made their appearance at
     Housah, and the replies led us to form an opinion that the lady
     might have been imposed upon. The circumstances, which were, I
     believe, considered to amount to strong proof in favor of the
     astral theory, were published in a paper called Psychic Notes,
     in Calcutta.

     "I wrote to my wife [who had travelled on the Vega to England]
     and sent this account to her. She replied that Mr. Eglinton had
     brought a letter to her [during the voyage] to be marked,--that
     it had a cross upon it, and that she had been asked to mark
     another or others, and that she did so, crossing the first
     cross.

     "I will add that when my wife left Calcutta I accompanied her in
     a steam launch, and she embarked on board the Vega at Diamond
     Harbor. I was the bearer of a letter to Mr. Eglinton. It was
     given to me for him by Mrs. Gordon, I think, but I won't be
     positive. I had known Mr. Eglinton; he was in the habit, when in
     Calcutta, of giving exhibitions of his powers in private houses,
     for a fee. He came to our house in this way, but nothing
     occurred; I think he considered it a failure."

Mrs. Broughton writes that she was with her friend Mrs. Eddis when Eglinton brought the letter.
Both ladies observed that the letter which Koothoomi was to convey across the sea contained
no allusion to anything that had occurred since they left--nothing that might not have been
written before they started. Instead of marking the envelope, for identification, in the way
Eglinton suggested, she made his cross into an asterisk. But the envelope published in India
to prove the power of Koothoomi was marked, as Eglinton had requested, with three separate
crosses. All efforts to obtain explanation of the difference between the marks on the letter
sent and the letter received were vain. In reply to my question Mr. Sinnett said, "All I can
tell you now is that Mrs. Broughton acted very badly." I was present when the Hon. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers pressed Colonel Olcott for an explanation. He replied, "The tone of your question suggests
collusion between the Theosophists of India and Mr. Eglinton. To such a charge I am, of course,
dumb." It was the only prudent answer he could make.

This incident lowered my idea of Madame Blavatsky's powers. It was not clever to rest so much
on the pliability of a "society lady" with whom she was unacquainted. I presently found that
at Bombay she had failed in several performances, but was shielded by a theosophistical argument
that mere jugglers never fail.[4] There was a pretty general feeling in Calcutta and Bombay
that no glamour or magnetic mystery was needed for Madame Blavatsky's thaumaturgy, which would
soon collapse in Madras as elsewhere. Nearly the first thing I heard after reaching London
(1884) was of that collapse. Mr. and Mrs. Coulomb, the former a skilled mechanic, had confessed
at Madras that they had all along been assisting Madame Blavatsky in frauds; elaborate contrivances
were discovered behind the shrine, and compromising letters written by the high priestess were
produced. Madame Blavatsky declared that the contrivances were put in the shrine to ruin her;
but Coulomb could have done that by a small mechanism, whereas the arrangements were extensive
and expensive, requiring such time as must have assured detection, and money which he had not.
The letters, mainly efforts to prevent the Coulombs from revealing the frauds, were pronounced
forgeries; but no expert reading them can fail to perceive that to forge them would require
a genius far beyond even that of Madame Blavatsky. The letters are brilliant, and Mrs. Coulomb
is sometimes worsted in them. Mrs. Coulomb, after her confession, wrote me a long letter, which
shows no trace of the style or ability disclosed in the Blavatsky letters. However, it was
a sufficient confession that the Theosophists receded from a proposal to test all these things,
including the handwriting of the letters, before a law court, for which the Coulombs were eager.
The result was that Madame Blavatsky left India and established herself in London.

      [4] Commissioner Grant was awakened by a telegram and requested
          to look for a cigarette in a certain part of the Prince of
          Wales' statue, in Bombay; he went and found nothing. Mrs.
          Coulomb now says she was Madame B----'s confederate, and that
          she was afraid of being taken up as a lunatic if she climbed
          to the unicorn's horn where the cigarette was to be placed.
          So she said the rain must have washed it away. Madame
          Blavatsky showed mental weakness in not considering the
          difficulties, and her fondness for cigarettes made her set
          them too high in dignity as well as position.

At the very time that I was at Adyar, and despite a certain repugnance to "occultism," sympathetically
appreciating the serene harmony of the Theosophists in their beautiful retreat amid the palms,
the place was turbid with discord, Madame Blavatsky at one end of the table and the Coulombs
at the other were even then in mortal combat. I have often marvelled at the self-possession
of the woman under the suspended sword that presently fell.

The most curious thing about this turbaned Spiritualism is its development of the Koothoomi
myth. I asked Sir W. W. Hunter, Gazetteer-General of India, and other orientalists, about the
name of this alleged Mahatma, or Rabat, and they declared Koothoomi to be without analogies
in any Hindu tongue, ancient or modern. I was assured on good authority that the name was originally
"Cotthume," and a mere mixture of Ol-cott and Hume, Madame Blavatsky's principal adherents.
Out of Madame's jest was evolved this incredible being, who performed the part allotted to
the aboriginal "John King" in America. Sumangala, chief priest of the Buddhist world, though
not unfriendly to Theosophy, told me that it was a belief among them that there had been Rahats
in the early world. I gathered from him and others that they are thought of as Enoch, Seth,
Elias, etc., are in Christendom. The Coulomb story is that a pasteboard doll, with half-shrouded
head, superimposed on the shoulders of Mr. Coulomb, himself orientally draped, moved about
in the dusk at Adyar when an "astral" apparition was wanted. In an accession of conscience,
Mrs. Coulomb, who is a Catholic, smashed the effigy. She says she had not cared much so long
as Hindus only were cheated, because they believed such things anyway, but she could not stand
it when European gentlemen and ladies were subjects of the imposture. Perhaps it was because
of this moral "strike" that Koothoomi was not tried on me.

What will be the future of Theosophy? Its age of miracles has passed, and is more likely to
be repudiated than renewed. It may easily be held that even if Madame Blavatsky was sometimes
tempted, in the absence of her potent Guru, to satisfy the demand for signs and wonders with
devices, she performed wonders not so explicable. In one of Madame Blavatsky's letters to Mrs.
Coulomb, she says, defiantly, "I have a thousand strings to my bow, and God Himself could not
open the eyes of those who believe in me." Elsewhere she quotes a letter she (Blavatsky) has
from Colonel Olcott, saying: "If Madame Coulomb, who has undeniably helped you in some phenomena,
for she told this to me herself, were to proclaim it on the top of the roof, it would change
nothing in my knowledge, and that of Dr. Hartmann, Brown, Sinnett, Hume, and so many others,
in the appreciation of Theosophy and their veneration for the brothers. You alone would suffer.
For even if you yourself were to tell me that the Mahatmas do not exist, and that you have
tricked in every phenomenon produced by you, I would answer you that YOU LIE, for we know the
Mahatmas, and know that you cannot--no more than a fly on the moon--have produced certain of
the best of your phenomena." It should be stated here that, in the whole correspondence revealed
by Mrs. Coulomb, Colonel Olcott appears as the dupe of Madame Blavatsky, and in no case accessory
to imposture unless by an amazing credulity.

We may assume that Colonel Olcott will continue his propaganda, and it remains only to consider
what vitality there is in Theosophy, apart from its "occultism," and what competency its leader
has for such work. I gathered up in India a number of Colonel Olcott's addresses, circulated
in cheap form, and find them much like "The Veiled Isis" ascribed to Madame Blavatsky. They
contain a medley of Buddhist, Brahmanic, and Zoroastrian traditions, interpreted in a mystical
and moral way, the only thing systematic being a Buddhist catechism. This catechism was printed
by the favor of a Singhalese lady, and approved, for use in schools, by the Buddhist high priest
Sumangala. Colonel Olcott's theosophy on the negative side aims to combine all oriental religions
against Christianity. He has not "any belief in, or connection with, Christianity in any form
whatsoever." (Theosophy and Buddhism, p. 2.) But he maintains the oriental philosophies, and
to some extent the mythologies, of eras corresponding to the discredited biblical doctrines
and legends. It is not, indeed, a literal restoration; but no esoteric interpretation can make
it very different from an attempt to rationalize for Europeans ancient Druidism, or for Americans
Aztec fables and symbolism. This kind of revival appeals in a certain way to the Rajahs whom
English rule has reduced to antiquarian curiosities; they too are survivals from primitive
religious and social systems. Colonel Olcott had patrons among the Rajahs who used to send
elephants to meet him, and entertain him in their palaces. But young India is not going that
way. English freedom and English colleges have emancipated Hindu youth, and they look upon
the cruel idolatry under which their fathers groaned as Colonel Olcott does on the Puritanism
he fiercely denounces.

But if Colonel Olcott should give up his Rajahs and elephants, and fix his headquarters in
Ceylon, there would be, I believe, fair prospect of a fruitful alliance of Theosophy with Buddhism.
In this island, now the centre of the Buddhist world, I found Madame Blavatsky comparatively
unimportant, the great personage being Colonel Olcott. The Buddhists are a mild, speculative,
unambitious people, easily overborne by the aggressive missionaries, and were without any leader
to defend their rights before Olcott came. He came to their rescue in a case where their procession
was attacked by Catholics, while enshrining relics of Buddha,--the Catholics thinking it a
mockery of their own processions. Colonel Olcott appealed to the government and obtained redress.
The Catholics (Portuguese) presently found some holy well, pointed out, I believe, by a vision,
where ailing pilgrims were said to be healed,--among these a number of Buddhists who were deserting
their temples. Colonel Olcott announced that he would try and heal sufferers in the name of
Buddha, and it is said his success quite eclipsed the holy well. Several eminent Buddhists
told me that he had healed members of their families. He is a robust man, of powerful will,
and in these days of hypnotism his influence over the most passive of people may appear less
wonderful to us than to them. No Christian was found willing to meet him in debate. By lectures,
in which Ingersollism blends with Arnold's "Light of Asia," the Colonel brought about a sort
of Buddhist revival. The Singhalese saw the Theosophists as wise men from the West, bringing
frankincense and myrrh to the cradle of their prophet. Although their high priest, Sumangala,
expressed disbelief in the Mahatmas, he valued the services of Colonel Olcott. He was especially
moved by a request from this American for his permission to administer the pansala to another
American. The ceremony took place at Madras. The two Americans, amid a crowd of witnesses,
went through formulas unheard there since the ancient banishment of the Buddhists. "I take
refuge in Buddha! I take refuge in religion! I take refuge in Truth!" The Colorado doctor (Hartmann)
pledged observance of the Five Precepts (pansala): abstinence from theft, lying, taking life,
intoxicating drink, adultery. All of this has profoundly impressed the Buddhist world, but
that is a world of humble people. It remains to be seen whether Theosophy, which has hitherto
shown an affection for titles in India and London, is willing to take its place beside Buddha
under his Bo tree, and share the lowliness of his followers. This may be rather hard after
the rapid success of Theosophy in India, where in four years from its foundation (1879) it
counted seventy-seven flourishing branches; but these are withering away under the Blavatsky
scandals, and if Theosophy is to live it must "take refuge in Buddha!"

EMANCIPATION BY NATIONALISM.

BY T. B. WAKEMAN.

The usually very liberal and skeptical Reverend Minot J. Savage has become astonishingly, and
it may be prematurely, certain on one subject. In THE ARENA for August (p. 321) he declares
that, "Nationalism, freely chosen, would be the murder of liberty, and social suicide." To
which the usually impartial editor cries Amen, thus:--

"I most heartily and cordially endorse Mr. Savage's position." For this sudden and decisive
foreclosure of the future and of THE ARENA upon Nationalism the world was not prepared. We
enter a protest and an appeal! Able "Gladiators are ready to fight for it," with aid and sympathy
from the leading reformers--the world over. The contest has hardly begun. A Bunker Hill or
a Bull Run does not end the war.

He who opened an Arena must keep it open, and like "the God of battles" wait for the best cause
to win.

Suppose it be found, as we propose to begin to show here and now, that Nationalism, under the
laws of Sociology, is not the murder, but in fact and theory, the only condition of liberty,
and the only way out from social suicide,--what then? Would it not have been better for THE
ARENA to have been kept open, as if by the aforesaid Deity, with a level head and a stiff and
silent upper lip?

For the Reverend and exultant Mr. Savage his exasperating situation is his excuse. For, with
the inbred and lethal instinct of a Theolog he was put upon the trail of a brother Theolog
to bring in his scalp. To return without some scalp would be a disgrace. But on coming up with
his reverend brother Bellamy, instead of finding him ready for fight or "treed, like Capt.
Scott's coon," he finds him already down and explaining in the blandest style: That, whereas,
"this difficulty" was a secular one, not at all theological, but quite within the bounds of
"the Knowable," there was really no necessity for one brother to scalp the other, although
both were clergymen. He even proposed ways by which the manifest benefit of both, and of all,
could be secured if they should hunt together, being sure to go no further than such benefit
justified. But an accommodation was just what the Reverend Savage was not out to find. Shaking
his war feathers, he says, "You are too fair,--I must kill you, or something, though it may
be 'cruelty to animals.' Stop,--I sniff 'paternalism'! It must be you or yours!" And without
waiting for an answer he bangs away at that old skunk which hasn't a friend on this side of
the world. Then, inflamed by smell of powder, blood, or something worse, he goes it wild, mistakes
even the good social domestic animals for wild beasts, and his reverend friend as their protector.
His slaughter of these purely imaginary enemies is accompanied by a self-approving wit, which
only exhales when, as Mephisto says, the Parson and Comedian are happily combined, and inspire
each other. But, alas! neither prayers nor laughter can settle the industrial and political
difficulties of our day. They may do, and are doing, much to prevent such settlement, which
must come from people who do not live in another world, and therefore are not free to ignore
or to make a joke of this. There is hope, therefore, when our reverend friend "ties his legs,"
and in his said article settles down to steady numbers: 1, 2, 3, 4. For by them, we can at
least get hold of him, and all points in his prior antics can be thereunder disposed of.

Most true! But that is half of the truth. If you had told the other half your article could
not have been written, for it would have been answered beforehand from a to z. The other half
is: That the rise of the individual has always been because of, and the result of, the concomitant
and ever-increasing Socialism. The two have ever gone, and must ever go, hand in hand. Integration
is the inevitable counterpart of individuation.

This is the fundamental law of history and Sociology, recognized the world over, as much as
the law of gravitation. To blink it, is to go wild or blind. This is the law of progress upon
which all human affairs expand, and there is scarcely a difference in wording it. For instance,
in the last book out on "Economics,"--that of Prof. George Gunton, he says (p. 22): "Progress
is an integrating differentiation. Only that differentiation is progressive which results in
new integrations and greater complexity of social relations." Comte's, and Fiske's, and Herbert
Spencer's statements of the same law are the same in substance, but too well known to quote
here. So Professor Huxley in his "Administrative Nihilism," Henry George in "Social Problems,"
and indeed pretty much everybody who touches the subject, except Mr. Savage. He, however, has
the grace to admit that "The world began in Socialism,"--and, by the law referred to, it will
continue in an ever-enlarging, integrating Socialism, till the rise of "the complete individual"
will result. Yes, man's origin was social; from the "Social Anthropoids,"--says Professor Huxley;
and to omit the continuance of this social fact and law in sociology is worse than talking
pre-Copernican astronomy. That should be left to our metaphysical anarchists, who chatter as
if man was a solitarily created "Adam," defying the social "compact" of Rousseau, or dickering
as to the terms upon which he will "come in."

From Henry C. Carey's noble work, "Social Science," Americans should have heard, if not read,
enough of this law of enlarging integration never to forget it, or to let those address them
who have. He illustrates it not only by human history, but by the fundamental law of biology
from Oken, Goethe, and the evolutionists generally. This application has been continued by
them to the present day; the last instance I noticed is that of Prof. Ernst Hæckel, translated
in Dr. Paul Carus' late work, "The Soul of Man." This law measures the progress of organisms
from the homogeneous jelly-fish to the complex elephant or man; from the savage tribe to the
Roman Empire, or the future "Federation of Mankind and Parliament of the World." Integration
is the mother, nurse, and protector of the individual.

In history and politics this law stands, however expressed or applied, as the door which opens
to the mental vision, the river of human evolution and progress,--a sight grander far than
Niagara. Those who see not this fact, law, vision!--are socially blind.

In industrial and economic evolution the same law of progress holds. The tribal homogeneous
industry, when one man did work at everything, became heterogeneous, special, and complex,
as society enlarged and advanced into higher integrations, and as the life of the individual
became more and more advanced through Fetichism, Polytheism, Monotheism, to our modern inception
of Humanism.

Do you stop this lecture to say that all this is a truism--a "chestnut"?

Yes, but everybody who talks against Nationalism forgets it. So follow a step farther.

"People will buy where they can buy the cheapest." But the cheapest can only result from the
highest integration of capital, machinery, labor, intellect, and means of wholesale production.
Thus industrial integration and progressive civilization, where the people can have the means
of a higher life, are indispensable parts and complements of each other. But the result and
the difficulty is, that while the people get their travel, oil, sugar, and necessities of life
cheaper and better than ever, they become the dependents, wage-slaves, and political and social
underlings of the industrial Feudal System which that integration of transporting and producing
monopolies builds up. For, those who can and do combine to control the conditions of the people's
life and welfare have the people and their Republic in their power. Under the integration of
the Roman Empire and Papacy the "Republic" was continued, but as a name only.

The lesson of history is, that Republics and Liberty always go down when the necessary integrations
of civilization and progress, military or other, pass from the control of the people. In a
word monopoly in war, politics, industry, or in any form of integration, has been the murder
of Liberty, ending in social suicide. Nationalism proposes to prevent this murder and suicide
under the law above stated, thus: Whenever the necessary transportation and production are
integrated into monopolies beyond the power of competition to control them, then the people
must control and operate them, or become the dependents of those who do. Such is the difficulty,
the danger, and the remedy, concisely stated. Critics like Mr. Savage can only reply: "The
difficulty does not exist; the remedy is worse than the disease; there is a better remedy."
But Mr. Savage admits the difficulty. In an evasive way he says, "the industrial condition
of the world is not all that one could wish." But he has no remedy, and concludes by saying
the remedy proposed would kill the patient sooner than the disease. This is the diagnosis of
an ostrich who tries to escape by burying his head in the sand. It simply abandons the patient
and there is no solution, no health in that. Let our lecture proceed and see if there is not
a scientific remedy.

"Capital is the condition of production and the controlling factor of modern civilization."
Those who control it are the masters of the world. The contest of the monopolists of this capital
with the workers and producers, that is, the people, is a burning fever which can only end
by the healthy triumph of the people. There is not a railroad, mine, or factory, where this
is not the daily issue upon which an internecine war is being waged or smothered. In literature,
religion, politics, economics, ethics, everything turns upon the relations of these contending
parties, from the Pope's Encyclical to the Platform of the People's Party. When we speak of
our age, as the age of iron, silver, gold, or of steam, electricity, intellect!--we simply
say it is the age of integrated capital, material and mental. To destroy this capital is impossible,
and if possible would be the suicide of civilization.

The question then urges upon us in every direction: Shall the people become the slaves of this
capital, or its masters? The watchman on the towers of our Boston Zion who fails to see the
gathering storm clouds seems strangely out of place, when we recall 1775 and 1861. Nationalism
says, the "Conflict is irrepressible," between labor and individualized capital; and that the
conflict will be fatal to liberty, unless a remedy is found under the law of our national evolution.
This remedy that law gives as follows: That the people must defend their liberties and "the
rise of the individual," against this industrial despotism of money kings, railroad barons,
political bosses, etc., better than they defended themselves against the foreign tyrants in
1775, or the slaveocrats of 1861,--to-wit, by organizing an army for their peaceful protection
and safety--A free Army of Industry--before an army for war shall be needed, and as its preventive.

But this name, "Army of Industry," fills our peaceful Mr. Savage with horror--a remedy worse
than the disease?

Mr. Savage has been taking novels and poetry literally, and has gone into a fright at a ghost
raised by his own excited imagination; or else, he makes an objection out of a figure of speech
because hard up for a real one. Who does not see that an "industrial army" has nothing to do
with a military army, or a military despotism, except to prevent both. There is no war, military
compulsion, or "military" at all, in the army of peace. The word "army" is short poetry for
the order, economy, punctuality, and reliable co-operation and co, not sub-ordination of the
public administration of industries. Remember that we are in America, where this administration
will be quite different from that proposed in Europe where the Revolution of 1776 was not,
and where "government" is one of divine right, authority, and force, and covers the all of
life from the cradle to the grave.

Nationalism is purely an American product, to be exercised as a popular benefit, and having
no mainspring or motive power but that. It is the co-operation and co-ordination of equal partners,
and while by a figure of speech fraternalism might be used to describe it, paternalism can
never be properly so used. When Mr. Savage says, or implies otherwise, he is simply imposing
upon, or trading upon an ignorance he ought to correct. He must know that the attempt to load
up American Nationalism with European despotism, Paternalism, or even Socialism, is to bear
false witness against his neighbor.

Before writing on this subject, he must have become acquainted with the late writings of Prof.
Richard T. Ely, and The New Nation of Edward Bellamy, whose standing motto is: "The industrial
system of a nation, as well as its political system, ought to be a government of the people,
by the people, for the people." And further it says (Aug. 1, p. 426): "This step necessarily
implies that under the proposed national industrial system, the nation should be no respecter
of persons in its industrial relations with its members, but that the law should be, as already
it is in its political, judicial, and military organization,--from all equally; to all equally."
Equality, Fraternity, Liberty, are the words.

Pages with similar import can be cited from every exponent of Nationalism. It all means that
our "government" will not be of force or of authoritarianism, but simply public conveniences
and needs regularly secured, without being farmed out by franchise laws to monopolistic corporations
for their benefit.

Notice further, that the extension of this government--action of the people is not to do nor
to extend to everything nor to anything, but to the material needs and industries of the people,
beginning with those natural monopolies like railroads and telegraphs, ending with trusts,
etc., which have passed beyond competition. This simple limit makes the cry of "universal despotism"
absurd. The tyranny and robbery of the few is simply abolished by the people, in equitably
resuming the franchise granted by them, and doing the work for all cheaper and better. There
is no tyranny to the few in this; and as to the many or all,--the tyranny of having things
you want done for you is laughable. Our anarchists invariably submit to the tyranny of our
free nationalized Brooklyn Bridge instead of swimming the river, or using the ferry company,
as they are at full liberty to do. We had a hard fight to get this bridge, for it displaced
monopolies. When the other monopolies, we have referred to, are displaced by the people, there
will be the same wonder that their tyrannies and exactions were ever submitted to. We have
found, and will find, that that government is the best which serves and administers the most,
for it will cost and restrain the least. The government that serves and protects the people
will not need to compel them. Now its main business is to hold them down while they are being
robbed.

But, says Mr. Savage, these advantages would be attended by a frightful "paradise of officialism"--a
helpless subordination--in which "the individual if not an officer would only count one!" We
cannot appreciate the horror of having more of "a paradise" about officialism than we have
in our present corrupt, inconstant, and servile system of political Bossism, even if the individual
could only "count one." But Mr. Savage does know, or ought to know, that the very first step
of Nationalism is to nationalize our "politics," so as to restore the initiative of political
action to the people, and render the abuses to which he refers impossible. He seems to suppose
that Nationalism is to be executed by Tammany Hall! Indeed, his capital as an opponent of Nationalism
consists in loading it up with European paternalism and American political corruption, both
of which it was invented to render impossible. Suppose the "politics" of New York were nationalized
so that the City should no longer be a mere annex of Tammany Hall, but so that every citizen
might "count one," under legal provisions for the vote and expression of the people without
regard to party or boss--who would be wronged? Politics must be annexed to our government by
such legal provisions, instead of being left to boss monopoly or mobocracy. There is no freedom
possible without a common law and order to ensure and protect it. The trouble is now that all
of our politics are outside of any law or order. "Count one!" Even that is now impossible.
We don't count at all, no more than if we lived in Russia. But how many does Mr. Savage want
an individual to count? His idea of political freedom seems to be that of our old "free" Fire
Department, which was a monopoly entirely "voluntary." It gave us a fire and free fight nearly
every night, developed its "Big Six" Tweed into a "statesman," and consolidated Tammany Hall
into the model political "combine" of the world--as a monopoly. The custom is to dispose of
the offices of the people as profitably as it can with safety, and to divide the proceeds for
the benefit of the combine. One of our purest and best judges publishes his last contribution
as $10,000, besides his other election expenses. This is the model to which the State and Nation
must conform, for such is the condition of success. Under that plan Governor Hill manages the
State of New York, and President Harrison, through "Boss" Platt, has just removed Collector
Erhardt from the New York custom house, under the imperative necessity of the same method.

As long as our Government is run by partisan politics, outside of law, there is no other alternative
but this way or defeat. The pretence, under this method, of civil service reform or fair tenure
is sheer hypocrisy. The Tammany method is the only condition of success, and every practical
politician knows it and adopts it. Nationalism proposes the only remedy. It would remove every
department from political control, and restore the political initiative to the people by requiring
their common action under general laws for that purpose, and suppressing as criminal the Boss
conspiracy system, which causes the counting of less than one by anyone. Do you say it cannot
be done? Well! look at that Fire Department. The indignation of "the State" finally replaced
it by a paid civil service, "nationalized" department. Since then our fire affairs have run
cheaply, effectively, smoothly, though in a most trying environment. Fires seldom occur, and
seldom extend beyond the building in which they occur. The old abuses, political and other,
have stopped. The men, appointed and promoted for merit, are highly respected and secured against
causeless removal, accident, sickness, and old age. "Helpless subordination" ended by an appeal
to the law which gave prompt redress. The heads of the departments and the officers count one
and the attempt to count more would be an assumption not submitted to for a moment, for no
one needs to submit. Extend this method mutatis mutandis over our Cities, States, and Nation,
and also over legalized political election departments for the whole people,--and the nail
will be hit on the head! The last nail in the coffin of party monopoly and corruption.

To excuse himself from not aiding this reform Mr. Savage cries, visionary, unpracticable! Thus
he says:--

"3.

All this shows Mr. Savage to be strangely misinformed. The Rev. Francis Bellamy is right. Every
impartial person does want the kind of Nationalism Nationalists are after, as soon as their
minds are disabused of this foolish talk about military despotism, and helpless subordination,
etc., for every one can see that it works for the liberty, equality, and welfare of all.

Misinformed, is the word for Mr. Savage. For if he had kept but one eye on this world, as Humboldt
said every well regulated chameleon and priest is in the habit of doing, he would have known
that every word of this "No. 3," above quoted, is exactly wrong: To wit: The other kind of
Nationalism, which is not military despotism, has not only been definitely talked about but
definitely put in practice, not only in the New York Fire Department, but in our schools, roads,
canals, waterworks, post-office, and in many other ways the world over! And never ("hardly
ever") has monopoly been able to recover its chance to tyrannize and rob!

"No definite talk"! Yet our present Postmaster-General is asking Congress for the postal telegraph;
and the Interstate Commerce Law is to be made practical to head off the People's Party? Let
Mr. Savage pick up the very same August ARENA which contains his article, and read the clear
and definite articles of C. Wood Davis, "Should the Nation own the Railways?" and of R. B.
Hassell, on "Money at Cost," and then tell the Editor with a straight face that they are not
"clear enough to be clearly discussed!" The facts, laws, and arguments are definitely there,
and clearly discussed. Why have we not the discerning eyes and impartial brains of Mr. Savage
to read them?

We ask Mr. Savage to bring such eyes and brains to bear, and we defy him to show any other
plan by which the fatal monopolies, which are natural or beyond competition, can be usefully
and safely checked, controlled, or destroyed. The attempts to do this by legal prosecutions
have notoriously failed. How to replace monopolies and yet increase the benefits they have
conferred is the question of our age, and Nationalism answers it. Mr. Savage, as we have shown,
admits the difficulty. We are entitled then to a practical answer, or to silence. Ridicule,
however witty, is neither answer nor remedy.

But instead of silence we have his amusing "fourth and lastly," thus:--

"4. Nationalism, as commonly understood, could mean nothing else but the tyranny of the commonplace."

The way in which Nationalism is commonly understood or misunderstood, is not the question;
but how is it correctly understood,--that is the concern of every fair mind. When thus understood
it seems to be just what Mr. Savage wants. For he agrees with Mr. Bellamy that if "it is only
what everybody freely wishes done," then it would be his "individualism" and all right. Thus
he approves of democracy; for, he says, "it only looks after certain public affairs, while
the main part of the life of the individual is free." This is Nationalism to a dot! Yet he
strangely concludes: "That Nationalism, freely chosen, would be the murder of Liberty, and
social suicide." But if "freely chosen" will it not be the same as his individualism? and what
everybody wants,--and so all right? Such would be his democracy certainly, but then how can
this Nationalism also "freely chosen" commit murder and suicide, and both at once? Strange!
That certainly would not be the tyranny of the commonplace.

Neither would Nationalism in any correct sense be such tyranny; and for these reasons:--

1. Government would for the first time in the history of the world, evolve beyond paternalism.
It would be industrial cooperative administration, for the equal benefit of all, protection
of the liberty of all, and such defence and restraint only as these main objects require. Government
would thus be the material foundation upon which liberty, originality, and the original--the
uncommonplace--could stand and be protected. The key to liberty is the "separation of the temporal
and spiritual powers;" but Nationalism does even more than that. It limits Government to the
provision of the common needs of all, and then protects all, in the enjoyment of their "uncommon-place."
Read for instance the remarkable article of Oscar Wilde on "The Soul of Man under Socialism."
He expresses the feeling of the artists and poets of the world. They want Nationalism so that
originality and free healthy development may at last have a chance,--and an audience. What
the people need in order to become an audience is the same thing that originality needs, emancipation
from drudgery and from the dependence of parasitism.

2. This emancipation can come only from the great saving of time and of waste by Nationalism;
and the division of labor by which it will enable each to follow the occupation to which he
is inclined, and to which he will be the best prepared by nature and education. Man is an active
animal, and the condition of life is that of some work. Now the work is imposed by the tyranny
of man and circumstances; then it will be rather a matter of choice. In the order instead of
the anarchy of industry there will be some relief. To use the grand prophecy of Fourier:--

     "When the series distributes the harmonies,
      The attractions will determine the destinies."

Given a material foundation for man and his education, so that he may have the mental and material
means of acting his part, and continuing his development, then the individual will have inherited
an environment in which life will be worth living, and which only the favored inherit now.
Civilization will certainly have ever new demands in order to equate its ever changing conditions;
and ambition, heroism, and originality will simply rise to newer and higher fields. The idea
that the temporal state will not continue to encourage and protect liberty, genius, and originality
is most absurd. That has been its general course against the sects and monopolists of religion
and opinion which have ever been the persecutors. We consider and answer: every one of them
would have been free, and protected and encouraged in the exercise of his highest gifts.

Even under such defective government as then existed, each had its aid and support, and each
was persecuted by the monopolistic sects and factions sure to get authority in the absence
of some general temporal control, which is absolutely necessary for the purpose of protecting
freedom of thought, of expression, and of action. From Homer's chieftain, Virgil's emperor,
Goethe's duke, on to the end of the list, we owe all they have done for us to the temporal
governments of their time, with a possible exception of Spencer, more apparent than real. Even
the Roman Pilate (if we are to take the reports?) let Jesus have a freedom to tramp and preach
in Palestine that would not be allowed in Boston for a day, and then stood by him, and when
compelled, by the unnationalized nature of his office, to give up to the Anthony Comstocks
and the priestly Monopolists and Pharisees of that day, he nobly said, "I find no fault in
him," and publicly washed his hands of the whole bloody affair. So was it with Servetus. Temporal,
much less a nationalized, Switzerland would have rescued him from the clutches of the Calvinistic
monopoly of Geneva. "Toleration?" repeats Mr. Savage tauntingly. We reply, yes! We want a general
temporal government which will protect liberty, and ensure that every priest, sect, fanatic,
and phase of thought and opinion shall tolerate every other. This Nationalism only can do.

We insist, and have for years, that the government monopolies of opinions, morals, and force,
farmed out to amateur societies of Comstocks and Pinkertons, should be withdrawn. If necessary
to public safety, let power be exercised only by the government directly responsible to the
people. It is this attempt to govern by monopolies in the interest of sects or industrial classes
that gave rise to every one of the abuses to which the editor of THE ARENA has well called
attention as "outrages of government." They are only outrages of government by monopolies for
monopolies, and which it is the fundamental condition and mission of Nationalism to end forever.
In all these cases, and in every case, the advocates and apologists of Anarchy, or of Laissez-faire
must not mistake their position, they are inevitably the allies of the oppressor. The integration
of special classes, sects, and interests, is the natural law making "toleration" more and more
impossible. The integral integration, then, of all for the equal support, and for the equal
protection of all, in mutual harmony and progress, is the only condition of our liberty, peace,
and safety. No rule in Arithmetic is plainer than this law of Sociology, and Nationalism is
its expression.

"RECOLLECTIONS OF OLD PLAY-BILLS."[5]

BY CHARLES H. PATTEE.

          [5] Copyright by Charles H. Pattee.

In offering to the public my recollections of old play-bills I cannot be said to be travelling
over familiar ground. For it is worthy of remark that while many bygone periods of theatrical
history have found their chroniclers, their panegyrists, their enthusiastic remembrances, the
space filled by the events of the Boston stage of 1852 to the present day has remained without
a comprehensive survey, without a careful retrospect of its many notable and brilliant illustrations.
To supply this void, to endeavor at once to preserve the memories of past grandeurs (already
fading with the generation who enjoyed them), and to furnish to the younger portion of theatre-goers
some conception of what the stage has been in its "palmy days," I have employed my leisure
in putting together this history of old play-bills. The changes which have overspread modern
society, vast and manifold as they are admitted to be, are, perhaps, nowhere more perceptible
than in the region known as the theatrical world. To one who has formed a link in that chain
which formerly connected the higher ranks of society with the taste for dramatic art--with
the cultivation of the beautiful and imaginative in both opera and drama--to such a one the
contemplation of the altered relations now between the patrons of the drama and the ministers
of art suggest many comparisons. The first stage performance I ever witnessed will not easily
be forgotten. It took place in the Boston Museum in 1850; the plays were "Speed the Plough,"
and a local drama (now happily banished from the stage) called "Rosina Meadows." Thomas Comer,
who was leader of the Museum orchestra, a gentleman, actor, and musician, took me under his
charge and seated me in the orchestra near the bass-drum and cymbals, where I remained until
the end of the performance. The time flew in unalloyed delight until the fatal green curtain
shut out all hope of future enjoyment. William Warren, W. H. Sedley Smith, Louis Mestayer,
J. A. Smith, Adelaide Phillips, Louisa Gann, who became the wife of Wulf Fries, the celebrated
'cello player, residing in Boston, Mrs. Judah and Mr. and Mrs. Thoman, all of whom are dead
with the exception of J. A. Smith, who is now an inmate of the Forrest Home in Holmesburg,
Penn., and Mrs. Thoman, who was a charming actress, and for several seasons a great favorite
with the Museum patrons. She was divorced from Thoman and became the wife of a Mr. Saunders,
a lawyer residing in San Francisco, who died some years since. Mrs. Saunders is now living
in the above city in retirement, and through the kindness of her cousin, Joseph Jefferson,
is enjoying the ease of a genteel competence.

William Warren and Adelaide Phillips were the first performers who ever made a lasting impression
upon me. William Warren, great as an artist and as a man. With pleasure do I pause from the
record of events to present a description of the illustrious actor. He has now passed away,
and to future generations the faithful description of one who delighted their fathers, and
who can never be replaced, will surely prove welcome. He made his first appearance in Boston
at the Howard Athenæum, Oct. 5, 1846, as Sir Lucius O'Trigger in the "Rivals" (the same character
that W. J. Florence is now personating with the Jefferson combination). Mr. Warren remained
at the Athenæum but one season, and during that time commanded the admiration of his audiences.
Mr. Charles W. Hunt, a very good actor, had held the position of comedian at the Boston Museum
for several seasons, but owing to some misunderstanding, left the establishment. Mr. Warren
was engaged to fill the vacancy, and on the night of the 23d of August, 1847, he made his first
appearance on the stage of the Museum as Billy Lackaday in the old comedy of "Sweethearts and
Wives," and as Gregory Grizzle in the farce of "My Young Wife and Old Umbrella," and from that
time, with the exception of one year's recession (1864-5) to the termination of the season
of 1882-3, was a member of the Museum company. Thirty-six years is a long test applied to modern
performers, and he that could pass such an ordeal of time, must possess merits of the very
highest order, such as could supersede the call for novelty, and make void the fickleness of
general applause. All this Warren effected. The public, so far from being wearied at the long-continued
cry of Warren, elevated him, if possible, into greater favoritism yearly. But his place is
not to be supplied. No other actor can half compensate his loss. Independent of his faculties
as an actor, so great a lover was he of his art that he would undertake with delight a character
far beneath his ability. Other actors will not condescend to do this or else fear to let themselves
down by doing so. Warren had no timidities about assuming a lesser part, nor did he deem it
condescension. Artists of questionable greatness may deem it a degradation to personate any
save a leading part. Warren felt that he did not let himself down, he raised the character
to his own elevation. From this it follows that no great actor within my recollection had undertaken
such a variety of characters. He was found in every possible grade of representation. His acting
forms a pleasant landing place in my memory. As I wander backward, no other actor has ever
so completely exemplified my idea of what a genuine comedian ought to be. He gained the highest
honors that could be bestowed upon him in Boston, and established his claim to be considered
one of the most chaste and finished of American actors. From Sir Peter Teazle to John Peter
Pillicoddy, from Jesse Rural to Slasher, from Haversack to Box and Cox, he was equally great
and efficient. I have heard it remarked that the late W. Rufus Blake stood without a rival
as Jesse Rural, while Henry Placide was the best of Sir Peter Teazles. Never having witnessed
the performances of those gentlemen, I am unable to speak of their merits, as older writers
have sounded their praises for a generation. Saturday, Oct. 28, 1882, was the fiftieth anniversary
of Mr. Warren's adoption of the stage. The entertainment consisted of an afternoon and evening
performance. The "Heir at Law," constituted the bill for the day performance, and "School for
Scandal," was given in the evening. It was impossible indeed for the arrangements to be more
perfectly accomplished. The character of the audiences was even more gratifying than its numbers.
Never had been such an assemblage in any theatre. A great number of elderly persons, both men
and women, interspersed with the younger people, gave a beautiful shading to the amphitheatre
picture, as it was seen from the boxes. It was a tribute of respect to one who had been so
long the pride of Boston. As a matter of record I give the complete cast of the plays:--

                     HEIR AT LAW.

  Dr. Pangloss                         Wm. Warren
  Dick Doulas                        Chas. Barron
  Zekiel Homespun                   George Wilson
  Daniel Doulas                         A. Hudson
  Kenrick                              Jas. Nolan
  Steadfast                            J. Burrows
  Henry Moreland                      J. B. Mason
  John                                   Fred Ham
  Waiter                       J. S. Maffitt, Jr.
  Cicely Homespun                    Annie Clarke
  Deborah Doulas               Mrs. J. R. Vincent
  Caroline Dormer                  Norah Bartlett

                  SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.

  Sir Peter Teazle                 William Warren
  Charles Surface                    Chas. Barron
  Joseph Surface                       Geo. Parks
  Sir Oliver Surface                    A. Hudson
  Sir Benjamin                        J. B. Mason
  Crabtree                            Geo. Wilson
  Moses                               Wm. Seymour
  Careless                  Geo. C. Boniface, Jr.
  Rowley                               J. Burrows
  Trip                                   J. Nolan
  Snake                                    F. Ham
  Sir Harry                     J. S. Maffit, Jr.
  Servant to Joseph                  A. R. Whytal
  Servant to Lady Sneerwell           Geo. Cohill
  Lady Teazle                        Annie Clarke
  Mrs. Candour                       Mrs. Vincent
  Marion                           Norah Bartlett
  Lady Sneerwell                        Kate Ryan

Mr. Warren remained at the Museum during the entire season, and made his last appearance on
any stage as old Eccles in "Caste," in May, 1883. From that time to the day of his death, which
sad event occurred Sept. 21, 1888, Mr. Warren made Boston his home, residing at No. 2 Bulfinch
Place, the residence of Amelia Fisher, where he had lived since the departure of his cousin,
Mrs. Thoman, for California, in 1854. Mr. Warren left property to the value of a quarter of
a million dollars. He made no public bequests, but bequeathed his entire estate to his relatives.
Who is there in Boston that has not heard of Miss Amelia Fisher, the "dear old lady" of Bulfinch
Place, where she has lived so many years, and at whose hospitable board so many have been welcomed?
Miss Fisher, accompanied by her sisters Jane, afterwards Mrs. Vernon, who was for many years
the "first old woman" of the New York stage, and Clara, afterwards Mrs. Gaspard Maeder, married
in America in 1827, and made her début at the Park Theatre, N. Y., singing a duet, "When a
Little Farm We Keep," with William Chapman. Miss Fisher was for several seasons attached to
the Tremont Theatre in Boston, and although possessing respectable abilities both as singer
and actress, never attained the prominent place in the profession accorded to her more talented
sisters. Miss Fisher retired from the stage in 1841, and for some years was a teacher of dancing
in Boston. For over thirty-seven years Miss Fisher has entertained at her home a swarm of dramatic
celebrities. Here Mr. and Mrs. James W. Wallack, Charles Couldock, Peter Richings and his daughter
Caroline, Mrs. John Hoey, and Fanny Morant, dined together where, in later days, Joseph Jefferson,
George Honey (the celebrated English comedian), Ada Rehan, Annie Pixley, Mr. and Mrs. McKee
Rankin, and Mr. and Mrs. Byron, ate their supper in the old kitchen, and were merry with wit
and song. Since the death of Mr. Warren, Miss Fisher has not enjoyed good health, although
her hospitable board is still surrounded by her friends and guests.

With the name of Adelaide Phillips there are many dear associations. When at seven or eight
years of age I went to see her at the Boston Museum, the days she began to sing in "Cinderella"
and the "Children of Cyprus." How the old days rise up before me now. She seemed to speak and
sing without effort or art. All was nature and harmony. Miss Phillips was a great favorite
in Boston where she made her début at the Tremont Theatre in January, 1842, in the play of
"Old and Young," personating five characters, and introducing songs and dances. Although very
youthful, she displayed great aptness and evinced remarkable musical talent. On the 25th of
September, 1843, she first appeared on the boards of the Boston Museum, which then stood at
the corner of Tremont and Bromfield Streets, where the Horticultural Hall now stands. The character
which she assumed was Little Pickle in the "Spoiled Child." At the opening of the present Museum,
Nov. 2, 1846, Miss Phillips was attached to the company as actress-danseuse, and doing all
the musical work necessary in the plays of that time. She was a most attractive member of the
company, and as Morgiana (Forty Thieves), Lucy Bertram (Guy Mannering), Fairy of the Oak (Enchanted
Beauty) was greatly admired. Her first decided success was as Cinderella. She was now about
eighteen years of age, and the tones of her voice were rich and pure. She did not aim at "stage
effect," and her singing and acting were exquisite. At that time, 1850-51, Jenny Lind was in
Boston. Miss Phillips was introduced and sang to her, and her singing was so brilliant, so
ringing, so finished, that her hearer was astonished, and uttered exclamations of delight.
The noble-hearted Jenny sent her a check for a thousand dollars, and a letter recommending
Emanuel Garcia, who had been her own teacher, as the best instructor, and amid all the triumphs
of her professional career, the affection and kindness which was showered upon her by Mlle.
Lind, and her Boston friends, who came forward to show their willingness to aid Miss Phillips,
was never effaced from her mind. After remaining abroad several years, she returned to Boston,
appearing at the Boston Theatre Dec. 3, 1855, as Count Belino, in the opera of the "Devil's
Bridge," supported by the popular favorite, Mrs. John Wood. She first appeared here in Italian
opera a year later as Azucena in "Il Trovatore," Madame La Grange being the Leonora. In this
opera Miss Phillips was heard with great effect and never were her talents as an actress more
conspicuously displayed. At the conclusion of the performance, the favorite singer received
an ovation, applause rang through the theatre; the emotion which was evinced by her friends
and admirers was evidently shared by herself. The character of Azucena remained a favorite
one with Miss Phillips to the last. The characters in which she excelled were Maffio Orsini
(Lucrezia Borgia), Rosina (Barber of Seville), and Leonora (Favorita). In 1879, she joined
the Ideal Opera Company, and carried into it her vocal and dramatic culture. She continued
with this company until December, 1881, when she made her last appearance on any stage in Cincinnati.
Her last appearance in Boston was at the Museum, the home of her earlier triumphs, in the role
of Fatinitza, a few months before her departure for the West in 1880. Ill health compelled
her to relinquish all her engagements, and on the 12th of August, 1882, accompanied by her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Adrian Phillips, who was the Arvilla in the early days of the Museum, sailed
for Paris. After a few days' rest in that city, they reached Carlsbad, and took apartments
at Konig's Villa, a pension for invalids. A few weeks thus passed until suddenly, on Oct. 3,
1882, the change came, and Adelaide Phillips was gone. The death of this gifted and good woman
produced a painful sensation in Boston, and, indeed, all over the country she was deeply regretted.
In private life she was amiable and kind-hearted, ever ready to assist the distressed. By her
family and friends she was idolized, by the public she was respected for the purity of her
life, and admired for her talents. Herewith I give a copy of the "bill" of Miss Phillips' last
benefit at the Museum, prior to her departure for Europe.

                    BOSTON MUSEUM.

       FAREWELL BENEFIT OF MISS ADELAIDE PHILLIPS.

   Re-engagement of the eminent artists, MR. CHARLES
                 PITT and MRS. BARRETT.

             FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 27, 1851.

                   THE HONEYMOON.

  Duke Aranza                          C. D. Pitt
  Rolando                             L. Mestayer
  Jacques                               W. Warren
  Lampedo                            J. W. Thoman
  Count                               J. A. Smith
  Balthazar                          J. L. Monroe
  Lopez                                G. H. Finn
  Campillo                             A. Bradley
  Lupez                              S. F. Palmer
  Juliana                            Mrs. Barrett
  Volante                             Mrs. Thoman
  Zamora                   Miss Adelaide Phillips

  In which she will sing "Ah, What Full Delight," from
           the opera of the "Bohemian Girl."

  Hostess                               Miss Rees

              Fancy dance - Miss Arvilla.
    Comic dance - Masters Adrian and Fred Phillips.

                    Conclude with

                  THE SWISS COTTAGE.

  Corporal Max                        L. Mestayer
  Nat. Tick                             W. Warren
  Lisette                  Miss Adelaide Phillips

  In which she will sing "France, I Adore Thee," and
                 "Liberty for Me."

A great attraction in Boston, way back in the fifties, was Anna Cora Mowatt. Her engagements
were always very successful, the theatre being crowded with fashionable and intelligent audiences.
Mrs. Mowatt was not a great actress. Delicacy was her most marked characteristic. "A subdued
earnestness of manner, a soft musical voice, a winning witchery of enunciation, and indeed
an almost perfect combination of beauty, grace, and refinement fitted her for a class of characters
in which other actresses were incapable of excelling." Mrs. Mowatt was born at Bordeaux, France,
during the temporary residence there of her parents about 1820. She married very young, and
for a short time enjoyed every luxury that wealth could purchase. Her husband's bankruptcy
drove her to the stage, where she made her first appearance at the Park Theatre as Pauline,
in "Lady of Lyons," June 13, 1845. Her engagements here in Boston were played at the Howard
Athenæum, then under the management of Mr. Wyzeman Marshall, who still lives, and can be seen
upon the principal streets of Boston almost daily. The "houses" were very large, tickets being
sold at public auction. At the termination of her engagement she was serenaded at the hotel,
and throughout the country she met with the same flattering reception. Mrs. Mowatt's favorite
roles were Viola, Rosalind, and Parthenia, characters now fresh in the public mind, made so
by Miss Julia Marlowe. Mrs. Mowatt made her last appearance on the stage at Niblo's Theatre,
N. Y., on the 3d of June, 1854. On the 7th of that month she became the wife of W. F. Ritchie.
Mrs. Ritchie died in Paris a few years since, where she was much regretted by the social circle
of which she was the admired star.

In 1852, at the National Theatre, which was situated on Portland Street, Charlotte Cushman
commenced her farewell to the stage in the tragedy of "Romeo and Juliet." Charlotte Cushman
was now at the summit of her art. She was universally allowed to be the greatest tragedienne
of the day. And this recognition was due to her fine genius. She owed nothing to artifice or
meretricious attraction. Nothing was left to chance, for the indomitable spirit and zealousness
with which she had sustained herself under adverse circumstances had done not a little to elevate
her in the regard of her countrymen and admirers. This was the first of a series of "farewell
engagements," inaugurated by Miss Cushman, and continued to her real and positive farewell in 1875.

I have always had an objection to ladies personating Romeo, but I waived that feeling in favor
of Miss Cushman. Her personation of Romeo was beautiful and even pathetic. The passionate grief
of young Montague in the third act was subdued by a tearful pathos. Nothing could surpass her
reading of the character: it was a triumph, and in a word it would be difficult to conceive
anything more grand than this impersonation. It is difficult to conceive a character more highly
dramatic or more impassioned than that of Lady Macbeth. The conflicts, emotions, and power
of the ambitious queen were portrayed with a truth, a grandeur of effect, unequalled since
by any actress. Miss Cushman's impersonation of Meg Merriles was one of the finest illustrations
of originality the stage ever witnessed. There was no effort to resemble the character. She
entered the stage the character itself, transposed into the situation, excited by hope and
fear, breathing the life and the spirit of the being she represented. In my opinion, when Charlotte
Cushman died, so did Meg Merriles, and it will be many a day before the old gipsy queen will
produce that indescribable effect upon an audience, as in the days of Cushman. At the Boston
Theatre, June 2, 1858, Miss Cushman as Romeo, her farewell to the stage. At the same theatre,
in 1860, another farewell, Miss Cushman as Romeo, who with the aid of Mrs. Barrow as Juliet,
John Gilbert as Friar Laurence, and Mrs. John Gilbert as the nurse, made up a very strong cast.
Here, at the Howard Athenæum in 1861, then under the management of that talented actor (who,
by the way, was the best Hamlet I ever saw,) Edgar L. Davenport, Miss Cushman was announced
April 11, 1861, positively her last night in Boston, when Romeo and Juliet was given with a
remarkable cast. E. L. Davenport was the Mercutio, John Gilbert the Friar, John McCullough,
Tybalt, Frank Hardenbergh, Prince Esculus, Dan Setchell, Peter, W. J. Le Moyne, Capulet, Miss
Josephine Orton (a very brilliant actress, and now the wife of Benj. E. Woolf, of the Saturday
Evening Gazette), Juliet, Mrs. John Gilbert as the nurse (she had no superior in this role),
and Charlotte Cushman as Romeo, truly a fine array of talent, all of whom have passed away
with the exception of Miss Orton and Mr. Le Moyne. This was Miss Cushman's last performance
of Romeo in Boston. In the spring of 1875, Miss Cushman played another farewell engagement,
which proved in truth a reality. It was at the Globe Theatre, and Saturday, May 15, 1875, was
announced as Miss Cushman's farewell to the stage. Macbeth was the play, with Miss Cushman
as Lady Macbeth. As an event worth remembering, I give the complete cast:--

  Macbeth                            D. W. Waller
  Macduff                           G. B. Waldron
  Banquo                              Chas. Fyffe
  Malcolm                              Lin Harris
  Duncan                               James Dunn
  Physician                            C. Pierson
  Drunken Porter                       E. Coleman
  Rosse                                 S. Clarke
  Seyter                                G. Conner
  Sergeant                            John Connor
  Donaldbain                          Miss Wilkes
  1st Witch                            E. Coleman
  2d Witch                          Mrs. A. Hayes
  3d Witch                           J. H. Connor
  Gentlewoman                         Miss Athena

A most inefficient company, exceedingly weak in the masculine department, while the actresses
were barely tolerable. The highest anticipations of a brilliant engagement had been indulged
in by the management, and bitter was their disappointment, and great the chagrin of Miss Cushman
to find that this "positively farewell engagement" failed to create anything of a furore. The
public had been so often deceived by these announcements, that they failed to respond to the
box office. In this special performance of "Macbeth," Miss Cushman was hailed with prolonged
acclamations. Old admirers were there who still recollected her when she was the greatest ornament
of the stage. Younger ones assembled to catch the last rays of a genius which had filled Europe
and America with its splendor. The former sought this memory of days gone by, the latter came
to pay deference to the verdict of a previous generation. At the close of the performance Miss
Cushman was called to the footlights, there to receive the tribute due to her name and fame
from the not over large audience. The spectacle was interesting, yet it was melancholy, not
to say painful, to all who could feel with true artistic sympathy. Her last appearance was
soon forgotten in the turmoil of dramatic events, but her name still gleams with traditional
lustre in the annals of dramatic fame. Miss Cushman never again appeared in Boston, for on
the 18th day of February, 1876, she breathed her last at the Parker House, Boston. Her funeral
took place at King's Chapel, in presence of a large concourse of people, and her body rests
in Mount Auburn. Miss Cushman was a very wealthy woman, but her generosities were not numerous;
even the little Cushman school, named in her honor, was forgotten in her will. Her relatives
(nephews and nieces) reside, I believe, in Newport, R. I., and are the sole possessors of her
large estate. I omitted to mention that Charlotte Cushman's last appearance in public was as
a reader in Easton, Penn., June 2, 1875.

THE MICROSCOPE FROM A MEDICAL, MEDICO-LEGAL, AND LEGAL POINT OF VIEW.

BY FREDERICK GAERTNER, A. M., M. D.

When the microscope was first invented, it was regarded as a mere accessory, a plaything, an
unnecessary addition, and an imposition upon the medical profession and upon the public in
general. But since 1840, when the European oculists and scientists began to make microscopical
researches and investigations, not only in the medical profession, but also in botanical and
geological studies, etc., and since 1870, when, throughout the civilized world, the microscope
came into general use in chemical analysis and other studies, it ceased to be considered an
accessory, and is now regarded as an extremely necessary apparatus, especially in minute examinations
and investigations; also in the advancement of every branch of science and art.

Had Galen, Celsus, Hippocrates, and the other great scientists of old, known the use of the
microscope, they would have made no such grave blunders as in the advocation of the theory
that the arteries of the human body contain and carry air during life, instead of oxygenized
blood only. They were of the erroneous opinion that the blood stayed in the extremities, not
to nourish and sustain the tissues, but simply to act as a humor in lubricating the same (tissues).

Then, again, had it not been for the microscope, the great English surgeon and physician, James
Paget, would not have discovered that deadly parasite, the trichina-spiralis, which had already
slaughtered thousands upon thousands of human beings. And yet the existence of trichina-spiralis
may be dated as far back as the time of Moses, who even then advocated prohibition of the use
of pork as a food, and who considered pork not only an unwholesome food, but dangerous and
even poisonous.

The microscope is certainly the best friend that a scientist can have. A physician without
a microscope is like a man without eyes: he is uncertain and unprotected and must be considered
incompetent, simply because he cannot arrive at a correct and positive conclusion in diagnosing
and prognosing his case.

The value of the microscope cannot be overestimated, at least in the examination of the sputa
of a human being, and thus being able to state positively whether or not the man is suffering
from consumption (Tuberculosis). How important it is to be able to state with certainty at
an early date whether or not the patient is suffering from cancer of the stomach, by examining
the vomits microscopically.

The microscope is composed of a simply constructed horse-shoe or tripod base with a column,
tube, reflector, and lenses of different magnifying powers, ranging from one to five thousand
diameters. It is a most extraordinary and at the same time a most simple apparatus, an invaluable
instrument, whose use any person with a little skill can learn in a few hours' practice.

Much has already been published of late years concerning the microscope applied in a medico-legal
sense (examinations). This surely is a very broad field and much remains for future observation
and investigation. Everything that concerns medical examinations in a legal sense or legal
examinations in a medical sense can be facilitated and accurately determined by the use of
the microscope. For instance, let me call your attention to the world-renowned "Cronin" case
of Chicago, in which the medical experts demonstrated to a certainty that the blood, hair,
and brain matter found in the Coulson cottage and sewer drop were those of a human being. And
what was still more remarkable they demonstrated by the microscope accurately and positively
that the hair and blood found in the cottage and fatal trunk were those of the late Dr. Cronin,
only in a modified condition.

Without a doubt the microscope is the most advantageous and most efficacious apparatus that
a scientist has ever invented and constructed. It is an especially powerful factor in enlightening
complex and difficult cases concerning medico-legal examinations, where the combined efforts
of an attorney and an expert microscopist are required. Within the last decade, scientists
have demonstrated to a certainty the possibility of distinguishing old and dried human blood
spots, whether on clothing, wood, iron, or any other object, from those of animal blood. Scientists,
especially pathologists and histologists, have demonstrated the great value of the microscope
in distinguishing not only the skin, blood, hair, and brain matter, but also the excretions
and secretions of the human body from those of animals.

Again, the microscope applied in medico-legal practice, particularly in malpractice suits,
suits for damages, those requiring the detection of adulteration of food or drink, is of the
greatest importance. It is not less valuable in determining the purity of an article, especially
whether or not the food or drink has spoiled or undergone fermentation, and in detecting the
accumulation and development of microorganisms such as germs, bacilli, etc. Prominent among
these uses are of course the detection of oleomargarine, the adulteration of drugs, liquors,
milk, groceries, sausages, etc.

The utilization of the microscope as a factor in the solution of legal difficulties is as interesting
as it is valuable, and in that connection I wish to cite a few lines from an exhaustive paper
read by the Hon. Geo. E. Fell, M. D., F. R. M. S., before the American Society of Microscopists,
relating to the "Examination of Legal Documents with the Microscope."

"This subject is of practical importance, in which the value of the microscope has again and
again been demonstrated. On several occasions have we been enabled to clear the path for justice
to ferret out the work of the contract falsifier, and shield the innocent from the unjust accusations
of interested rogues. The range of observations in investigations of written documents with
the microscope is a broad one. We may begin with the characteristics of the paper upon which
the writing is made, which may enable us to ascertain many facts of importance; for instance,
a great similarity might indicate, with associated facts, that the documents were prepared
at about the same time. A marked dissimilarity might also have an important bearing upon the
case. The difference of the paper may exist in the character of the fibres composing it, the
finish of the paper whether rough or smooth, the thickness, modifying the transmissibility
of light, the color, all of which may be ascertained with the microscope.

"The ink used in the writing may then be examined. If additions have been made to the document
within a reasonable time of its making, microscopic examination will in all probability demonstrate
the difference by keeping the following facts in view: Some inks in drying assume a dull, or
shining surface; if in sufficient quantity, the surface may become cracked, presenting, when
magnified, an appearance quite similar, but of a different color, to that of the dried bottom
of a clayey pond after the sun has baked it for a few days. The manner in which the ink is
distributed upon the paper, whether it forms an even border, or spreads out to some extent,
is a factor which may be also noted. The color of the ink by transmitted or reflected illumination
is also a very important factor. This in one case which I had in hand proved of great importance
and demonstrated the addition of certain words which completely annulled the value of the document
in a case involving several thousand dollars. And in a certain case where the lines of a certain
document were written over with the idea of entirely covering the first written words, the
different colors of the inks could not be concealed from the magnified image as seen under
reasonably low powers of the microscope."

The value of the microscope in this field of research is so great and the facts elicited by
it so vital, I wish to emphasize its practical utility as strongly as possible. Of course the
principal object in such an examination of written or printed documents is the erasures or
additions; then the coloring of different inks applied and the mode of their execution. As
to erasures, this can be accomplished in two ways, either by the use of a penknife or by a
chemical preparation. The former is the one most commonly resorted to, and is effected in the
following manner. With a well sharpened knife blade the surface of the paper is carefully scraped
until all objectionable lettering and wording appear to the naked eye to have been effaced;
but under a microscopical examination the impression made by the strokes of the pen may easily
be detected, while the different colors of the inks are still plainly visible under the microscope.

The second method is by the application of a chemical preparation by which the ink is made
soluble and is then easily removed from the paper by means of a blotter or absorbent cotton.
Of course this method is also an imperfect one and the letters can easily be traced by close
observation. When a chemical preparation has been used for erasing purposes, I find that in
most cases it leaves a stain and also that the fibres of the paper are more or less destroyed
by the chemical used; thus always leaving evidence that the document has been tampered with.

George E. Fell in his excellent paper says: "The eye of the individual making the erasures
is certainly not sufficient, and even with the aid of a hand magnifier, the object might not
be effectually accomplished. We will find that the detection of an erasure made by the knife
is a very simple matter and may be detected by the novice. An investigation may be made by
simply holding the document before a strong light and this is usually all that is necessary
to demonstrate the existence of an erasure of any consequence.

"This is, however, a very different matter from making out the outlines of a word or detecting
the general arrangement of the fibres of the paper, so as to be able to state whether writing
has been executed on certain parts of the document; and again, when we enter into the minutiæ
of the subject, we will find that the compound microscope will give us results not to be obtained
by the simple hand magnifier."

On several occasions I have had the opportunity for demonstrating with the microscope additions
made to certain documents, two of which were wills (testaments); these additions were made
in the following manner:--First an erasure was made and then the additional matter written
over the erasure. With the microscope I could at once detect the erasure beneath the addition;
also the different colors of the inks. Then, and this is the most important result of the microscopical
examination, by close observation, I could discern the strokes of the pen in the original lettering
as well as those of the additional lettering, and finally the general mode of their execution.

In regard to the examination of legal documents, United States currency, printed and written
matter, mutilated documents, including forgeries, etc., from a legal point of view (as to their
genuineness), it will suffice to say that the principal features are, as already stated, first,
the detection of erasures and additions; second, the comparison of the colors of the different
inks used in the original and in the additional lettering, and finally the mode of their execution.
This includes of course a careful observation of the original writing as to the general and
comparative expression. In the observation of the characteristics of the letters constituting
the document, I will call attention especially to the shading and general formation of the
letters, that is, the stroke of the pen either in a downward or upward movement. This comparison
includes both capital and small letters and even punctuation.

All these things, as well as the grammatical and orthographical relationship and comparative
differentiations, must be taken into consideration in order to enable the microscopical examiner
to give a positive opinion.

A microscopical examination of paper documents, such as wills, notes, checks, etc., as to whether
or not they have been mutilated or forged, is certainly the most reliable test, and by far
the easiest and simplest method of determining the authenticity or spuriousness of a document.
An expert microscopist and observer can at once arrive at a correct and positive conclusion
as to the genuineness of an autograph.

The use of the microscope in the examination of United States currency is invaluable, and I
believe the only perfectly reliable test for distinguishing counterfeit currency from the genuine
bills. In this examination the following observations are necessary, to the last of which I
wish to call special attention: First, the quality of the paper used; second, the general execution
and finish of the bill; third, the ink used for the printed reading matter as well as for the
autograph; fourth, the two red lines; these lines in a genuine bill are produced by two red
silk threads woven into the paper, and running lengthwise of the bill. In a counterfeit bill
these lines are not of silk thread, but are simply two lines drawn with red ink. This is the
crowning test in the detection of counterfeit currency, and I have no doubt that the same tests
will hold good in the examination of foreign currency.

A GRAIN OF GOLD.

BY WILL ALLEN DROMGOOLE.

Everybody said he would go to the bad; everybody expected it of him. Whether it was the fulfilment
of the promise, "As thy faith so be it," or whether he felt any conscientious obligation resting
upon him not to disappoint public expectation, nobody knows. Nobody was surprised, however,
when news went over the town that Jim Royal was going to the penitentiary.

Going to "the pen" at sixteen years of age. Nobody thought of that. Moreover, the old Tennessee
prison contains scores of boys under sixteen, for that matter; and if they do not work satisfactorily,
the lessees of the prison have made no complaint of them; therefore, they do work satisfactorily;
for the lessees are not likely to pay the State for the privilege of feeding worthless hands.
But as for vagabond Jim, if anybody thought of him at all, it was something after this wise:

"Safe place. Keep him out of mischief. Protect other people's boys. Bad influence, Jim's. Town's
scourge. Bad mother before him. Questionable father. Made to work."

Now there were two considerations in this category, concerning which the public opinion was
exactly correct. More so, indeed, than public opinion is usually known to be. Namely: Jim would
"be made to work." No doubt about that. There were straps for the obstreperous, the water-pump
for the sullen, the pool for the belligerent, the lash for the lazy, and for the rebellious--the
shotgun.

Oh, yes; Jim would be made to work. The town was quite right about that.

The other consideration, although not altogether so important, was a trifle more interesting.
Jim's "questionable father"!

It was his mother's fault that public interest (?) was not gratified. And it never forgave
the poor outcast for leaving the world with that seal of secrecy still unbroken. The heart
broke, but not the seal. They cast her off utterly when, poor girl-mother, she stubbornly refused
to reveal the name of her betrayer. To them there was nothing heroic in the answer, "Because
my life is ruined, shall I ruin his?"

So they treasured it against her in her grave, and against her son after her, in his grave
too, that living, loathsome sepulchre, the State prison.

But they had surmised a good deal regarding Jim's paternal parentage. They searched for resemblances,
birthmarks, peculiarities of feature, owning that nature always set her brand upon the bastard,
and that the features, as well as the iniquities of the father, are always visited upon the
illegitimate. If this be the case, Jim must have come of some strange blood. And yet, knowing
him and his history, some might have traced the poor mother in the boy, although of that mother
he knew very little. He had been told--oh, yes, he had been told--that she was found in a garret
one December morning with a vagabond baby nursing at her dead breast. And old Nancy Piatt,
the only one who ever seemed to dislike talking to the lad about it, had told him that she
was "a pretty corpse, as pretty as the grave ever held," and that the dead lips wore a smile,
those dead lips that never would, and never could, give up their pitiful secret. Poor lips;
death had granted that which life denied them--a smile. Stubbornness, the town gossips called
the woman's silence. In other circumstances it would have answered to the higher term of fidelity,
or, perhaps, heroism. Jim was very like his mother, old Nancy said, despite Dame Nature's habit
of branding. Surely Nancy ought to be authority, for when the boy was left, at two months old,
on the town, old Nancy Piatt, a drunken old crone, who washed the clothes of the rich all the
week, and drank her earnings Saturday evenings, was the only one who offered to "take the cub"
whom the authorities were ready to give away.

A sorry chance had Jim, although he never realized that. At ten he could drink as much liquor
as Nancy herself, and outswear the ablest lawyer in the town. At twelve he could pick a lock
better than a blacksmith, and was known as one of the most cunning sneak thieves in the place.
At fourteen he beat a little boy of eight unmercifully. (Did anybody expect old Nancy to tell
him that was the crown crime of cowardice?)

Then someone suspected Nancy of a crime. One of those nameless crimes concerning which the
law is very jealous, not considering the slander prevented, the "good name preserved," and
the disgrace averted. All in high circles, and all set in the scale against a useless little
baby,--a wicked little illegitimate baby, that is so heartless as to be born, and thereby bring
a world of trouble upon wealthy and respectable people.

That old Nancy--for handsome considerations--had made away with the selfish baby, Jim knew
as well as anybody. And when he was offered quite as handsome a sum to tell all he knew about
it, his reply was to plant his fist in the eye of the man who had made the offer. Not that
he cared for the cause the babe's coming had disgraced. He only meant to stand by old Nance,
and not all the money in the county's coffers could have forced his lips to speak that which
would hurt her. He was afterward arrested and brought before the magistrate, together with
Nance, and swore, not by the calendared saints,--he hadn't made their acquaintance,--but by
"George," by "Gum," by "Gosh," and even by God himself that he knew nothing at all about the
matter. They knew he was lying, but there was no way to prove it, as he attempted no dodge.
He was merely ignorant. Nance hadn't asked him to do this; she knew he would do it if necessary.
She had not attempted to win his love, his confidence, or his gratitude. Perhaps she believed,
in her blind way, that these things are born, not won, like respect, and honor, and admiration.
He was fifteen when this happened. At sixteen Nance died from the effects of a blow from a
policeman's club while trying to arrest her. Two weeks later the policeman died from the effects
of a blow from Jim's club while trying to protect old Nance. Two months later the prison door
closed on Jim, and the town took breath again in a long, relieved sigh of "Safe at last!" As
if vagabond Jim's salvation had lain a weight for sixteen years upon their consciences.

It was certainly the face of a hardened creature that followed the sheriff to the railroad
station that June morning. June, sweet, old love-laden, rose-burdened June. Of all the year
to give up one's freedom in June. And how many years before he would breathe the free, rose-haunted
air of another June. Twenty. Why, the twentieth century would be dawning before he would be
free again. Would his face be any the less hard at the expiration of his term? The penitentiary
isn't a hotbed of virtue, and Jim wasn't wax. Nobody wasted any hopes on him,--except the lessees,
who, finding him able-bodied, young, and healthy, sent him to the Branch prison to dig coal.

There an old gray-bearded warden offered a plea for his youth, and a protest against the associations
of the Branch, and was promptly reminded that the Tennessee State prison was not a reformatory
institute, but that it had been leased as a financial speculation, which was expected to yield
at least ten per cent. on the money invested by the lessees.

So Jim went to the coal mines in the mountains, leaving his life, his poor, puny sixteen years
of dust and degradation, behind him. If there was anything of brightness, any softening memory,
any tender touch of the human--dream touches are they to the castaway--which Jim carried with
him, it was the memory of old Nance, drunken, filthy, murderous old Nance, and the face of
the gray-bearded warden who had lifted his voice in his behalf.

It was noon of a day in June, early in the eighties, that Jim trudged across the coal-sprinkled
ridge upon which rose the great gray, weather-beaten, rat-infested fence, which was dignified
by the name of stockade. To go out of life into a dungeon like that, and at noon of a day in
June. That Jim made no sign was accredited to his hardness of heart. That, having registered
and heard an official sneer at the name, Jim Royal, and having passed through the hands of
the barber, and being duly entered at last among the State's hired help, and dropped down on
his ill-smelling bunk, a rat came and gnawed his ear, and the vermin crawled unmolested over
him, and still he gave no sign, was set down to the account of his laziness.

"He won't be vicious," the warden said, "he is too lazy," and he thought yearningly of the
raw-hide lash hanging in the office. That the stupor might be the result of weariness had never
once suggested itself. If it had, why still there was the lash. The lessees' ten per cent.
must be gotten out of that herd in the stockade, even if it should be necessary to beat it out.

But when, the next morning, Jim fell into his place as brisk as any, the warden began to waver
between the lash and the pool. If he did not need the one, he was fairly seen to require the
other. All of them needed some one, may be two, of the prison's medicines, and the warden made
a special point of spying out the diseases of new arrivals, and applying the remedy as soon
as possible. It told them, more plainly than words, precisely the manner of treatment they
were to expect in case of any appearance of any of the several moral diseases with which all
convicts, young, old, rich, or poor, were supposed to be afflicted.

Therefore, the warden "had his eye on Jim." And when the gang started from the stockade across
the black, coal-dusted mountains, to the blacker mine beneath, he called to the new arrival,
draining the last of some sloppy coffee from a dingy tin cup at the greasy, board table of
the shed room that served for dining-room, and laundry, during the week, and for chapel on Sundays.

"Come here, sir; what's your name, sir? At least what one did you leave on the book out there?"

"The only one I've got," said Jim. "The clerk down there made it to spell Royal."

"Royal." A sneer curled the lips of the official. "Here Black"--to the guard,--"add this royal
renegade to your company. Here, you fellow, fall into line here, and be quick about it."

To Jim, accustomed from the day his dead mother's nipple had been taken from his toothless
gums to having his own free will, the surly command came like a threat. He hesitated.

"Will you come, you bit of carrion, or shall I fetch you?"

Jim stood like a young lion at bay. His hands unconsciously drew up into fists; one foot moved
forward; the prisoners stood in wondering groups, some recalling the day, five, ten, fifteen,
aye, even fifty years before, when they, too, had thought of defence. They, too, had stood
at bay. But they had learned the folly of it, and they knew Jim would learn too; but still
they half hoped he would get in that one blow before the lesson began.

Such fists! such strength! And he came on like a young tiger, his eyes ablaze, his nostrils
quivering, his arm poised, his full chest expanding, perfectly aware the officer was feeling
for the pistol at his belt, when, quick and noiseless, a small hand, white and delicate as
a woman's, reached out and drew the clenched fist down; a soft voice, softened by despair,
said: "It isn't any use; they'll down you at last, and you only make it harder."

It was all done so quickly, the guards around had not had time "to draw," else the rebellious
one had received the reward of rebellion.

The warden replaced his pistol, with a curse upon it for not obeying his effort to draw it.
The young convict had ceased hostilities, and stood submissive by the side of his unknown friend.
He had not once glanced at him, but something in his voice had controlled and subdued his passion.

"Away with him," cried the officer. "To the pump, and afterward to the pool. Get the straps
ready there. We'll show our royal friend who is master here."

Again came an idea of resistance, but the same small hand was laid upon his arm.

"My friend, it isn't any use. I tried it all. Go on and be punished. It is part of life here.
You receive it whether merited or not."

They dragged him off, strapped him, hand and foot, and writhing, foaming, like the untamed
wild beast that he was, they thrust him under the great prison pump.

"That will cool his royal blood," laughed a guard, as the fearful force of the cold current
beating upon his shaven head knocked him senseless.

Drenched and beaten, utterly exhausted, he lay like a limp rag, until three men had spent their
strength upon the pump. Then to the pool they dragged him, and "ducked" him three times into
the dark, stagnant water. Then back to the warden who asked if he "thought he had enough."

"Not enough to make me take your jaw," was the foolish answer.

"The lash," said the warden, and the miserable, half-drowned creature was taken away to be
beaten "into subjection."

The guard overlooked the punishment. A stout, burly convict was required to perform it. He
would have refused, being in like strait, only that he knew the uselessness. He had been there
a long time, forty years, and according to his sentence would be there for fifty more. He had
picked up a little scripture at the prison Sunday school, so that when he lifted the whip above
the back they had made bare for it, he whispered, by way of apology:--

"And one Simon, a Cyrenian, him they compelled to bear the cross."

But Jim didn't understand even if he had heard. All he heard was that low, patient voice calling
him "friend."

In the afternoon he was sent down to the mines, subdued, but not conquered. Every evil passion
of his nature had been aroused, and would never slumber again.

After that first day's experience he seemed indeed a wild beast. He fought among the prisoners,
rebelled against the rules of the prison, would have nothing to do with any but the worst of
the men, shirked his work until he had to be strapped and beaten, in short, made a record that
had never been surpassed by any previous man on the prison record.

Yet, when there was danger of any kind, he was the first there. One morning there was an explosion
in the mine, and more than a score of prisoners were in danger of being suffocated before help
could reach them. Indeed everybody was afraid to venture in that black hole from which the
hot, sulphurous gases were pouring. Everybody but Jim. Even the warden had to admit Jim's courage.
"He aint afraid of the devil," he declared, when he saw the boy jump into an empty coal car,
call to the mule to "git up," and disappear in the gas and smoke with the empty cars rumbling
behind him. It was a long time before he came out, but he brought ten insensible convicts in
his first haul. The lessees recommended him for that, and promised to make it good sometime
if he kept on at that rate.

Another time there was a fire. The rumbling old rat-hole was threatened with destruction, and
with it three hundred and seventy-five of the State's charges. The men glared like beasts through
the cracks of the tottering stockade. Liberty, it would come surely in some form. The fire
was confined for a time to the wing where the hospital was. But when it mounted in a great
blood-dappled sheet of flame to the top of an old rotten tower above the main building, where
the prisoners were huddled, it became evident that all must go unless the old tower could be
torn away. Up the uneven, rickety wall went Jim, nimble as a squirrel. Crack! crack! fell the
dead boards, then with a clang and clamor, down rolled the old bell from its perch, carrying
with it the last of the burning tower.

Jim climbed down as sullen as ever. He didn't care to save the old shanty, or to win any praise
from anybody. He was simply not afraid, and his courage would not permit him to do other than
what he did.

Nobody cared for him specially, although the soft-voiced man with the small, womanish hands
spoke to him often, and always kindly. Jim never forgot that he had called him friend. The
memory of it stayed with him, like the kiss of a first love that lingers long after love is
dead. Most of the men were afraid of him, so fierce was his temper, and so easily aroused.
Even the warden had learned that he could not tame him. The strap, the lash, the pool, the
pump, had been applied times without number. The warden was still "looking around" for the
time to apply the last resource, the shotgun. It was pretty sure to come, for the boy was entirely
"unscrupulous."

Summer set in again. Again June came, and tried to bloom even on the coal-tracked mountain
about the mine. Somewhere up back among the pine and shadows the wild roses were blooming,
and the grapes. Their odors came down to the men as they tramped across the hot, bare, coal-strewn
way between the stockade and the mines.

With the coming of June came a number of strangers to the mountain. They always came in the
warm season, but they quartered themselves over in the town, beyond the stockade, and the stench,
and filth, and crime found there.

Only one, a young man, a minister who had been expelled from the church in the city where he
had preached, found his way to the prison. He went out one Sunday afternoon, and asked permission
to preach to the convicts. It was freely granted. Such wild heresy! Such odd, eccentric ideas!
Such flights of oratory! Such fiery brands tossed into the old tabernacles of religious belief!
Such blows upon the old batteries of narrowness and impossibility! They had never heard anything
like it. Had he preached thus anywhere else he would have been promptly silenced. But a lot
of convicts was not an audience likely to be injured by the too free circulating of the doctrine
he advocated. What if he should convince them that eternal punishment was a myth, and an insult
flung in the face of the Creator? A slur upon His justice, and a lie to His divine goodness?
What if he snapped his finger at a lake of brimstone and of eternal fire? And his wild ravings
about an inconsistent Being, accepted as the head of all wisdom, and tenderness,--and mercy,
and at the same time as the perfection of all cruelty and injustice, in that He creates only
to destroy,--what if the seed scattered should take root? What if those old sin-blackened souls
should comfort themselves with the new doctrine, the idea that no good can be lost? God cannot
be God and destroy any good thing. It is wicked, it is devilish to kill that which is good.
God cannot be wicked and be the good God, the kind All-Father, at the same time. Nor has He
created any so vile as to be without some one virtue. In the dust of the evil He has not failed
to drop one grain of gold to glisten, and to make glad the dull waste of life. The grain is
there, planted by God's hand, in every soul. It was in their souls, poor, old, sin-covered,
forsaken souls, toiling up to the light through those begrimed walls among the filth, and dust,
and mould. Not one of them but was God's work, and bore His grain of gold. None would be lost,
not one. What matter if the prison registrar's table of deaths did record so many, Found dead!
Drowned! Killed! Shot! Blank! Blank! Blank! Meaning they disappeared, nobody knows how or when.

It was a strange, sweet hope to them, that came in that wild sermon of a bishop-silenced young
heretic. They thought about it a good deal, and began, some of them whose terms were to expire
with life, to dig down into the rust and mire with the spade of conscience for the hidden grain.

The minister was at the stockade often, cheering, sympathizing, and always comforting the convicts
with the certainty of eternal love, and the folly of eternal punishment. One day he stumbled
upon a man who was being strapped and prepared for punishment at the pump. His face was sullen,
and there were splotches of blood on his clothes, and he limped when he attempted to walk.
Still there was something in the old, young face, that neither cruelty nor threats could kill.
They might turn on the icy water, and exhaust themselves with lashing him, but that stoic determination
would not yield. They might murder him, but from his fixed, dead eyes, it would glare at them,
that same heroic, immovable something that had shone in the staring eyes of his dead mother.

No visitors were allowed in that part of the prison, so the minister held back until, fearing
the limp figure under the pump would be beaten to death by the cruel pour of water upon his
head, he stepped forward to interfere.

"In God's name, I beg you stop," he cried, his hand uplifted, his eyes full of tears. "Your
punishment is beastly. What has the fellow done? Is someone murdered?"

"Someone ought to be," sullenly replied the man at the pump-handle. "And someone might be if
this sneaking rascal was the only hope of preventing it."

There had been a plot among the convicts to batter down the shaky old stockade, and break for
freedom. They had secured a gun and some ammunition, where, no one could tell, and the plot
had well-nigh succeeded. The guard on the wall had been killed, three men had escaped, and
the prison bloodhounds were lying in the kennel with their throats cut.

Already the governor of the State had telegraphed freedom to the convicts not in the scheme
who would give the names of those engaged in it. Even the leader's name; for that freedom was
offered, pardon unconditional.

Something let fall discovered to the warden that Jim, while not in, was familiar with the whole
history of the insurrection. The offer of freedom had no further effect upon him than a careless
refusal to comply with the terms set forth. But when force was suggested, he set his lips in
that old way that belonged to his mother, and said nothing. Three days they gave him to "knock
under." But the only change noticeable during that time was a more decided sullenness, a look
in the cold, gray eyes that meant death rather than yielding.

Once the soft-voiced young man who had put out his hand in his defence the day of his arrival
at the stockade, and had afterward called him "friend," the only time he had ever heard the
word addressed to himself, once he came over where Jim sat cleaning the warden's boots, and
motioned him.

Jim shook his head, and went on blacking the big boots. But when the young convict drew nearer,
and tried to take his hand, he drew back, and struck at him viciously with the blacking brush.

"Git out, will you! And don't come a-fooling with this brush, lest you want your d--n head broke."

He had seen a guard spying upon them at a half open door in the rear of the young convict.
At Jim's outburst of temper the guard entered.

"Come away from him, Solly," he said, "the surly beast is as like as not to knock your brains out."

The convict turned to obey, but the glance he got of Jim's face carried a full explanation.
The temper was affected to keep down suspicion. After that came the punishment at the pump,
the merciless beating, and then, all things proving unavailing, he was put in the dungeon to
have the "truth starved out of him."

After three days he was brought out, faint, pale, ready to die at every step, but with that
same immovable something shining in his eyes, and his lips still set in the old way that he
had of his mother.

His hands were manacled, and an iron chain clanked about his feet as he dragged them wearily
one after the other. For three days he had tasted no food, except a rat that he had caught
in the dungeon. He ate it raw, like a dog, and searched eagerly for another. Just as he had
found it, and skinned it with the help of his teeth, the guard peered through the grating,
and seeing what he was doing, entered, and put handcuffs upon him, after first removing the
raw flesh to a point where he could see, but not touch it. And there it lay, torturing him
while he starved. And there it lay until it became carrion, and tortured him again. And then
they had dragged him out again, out under the blue sky, where the trees--the old sweet-smelling
pines--were waving their purple plumes upon the distant mountains, and the wild grape filled
the air with perfume, and the wild roses were pink as childhood's sweet, young dreams, and
over all was bended the blue heaven. And heaven spread before him, heaven; behind him lay hell,
fifteen years of it less one. And they gave him choice again betwixt the two. They even crammed
a bit of moral in the offer. "It was right," they said, "to tell on those who had broken the
prison regulations, mere justice to the lessees." Right! too late to talk to him of right.
He glanced once at the pines, going farther away, whiffed at the pleasant odor of the grape
blooms, waved his hand to the roses, in farewell, perhaps, lifted his face to the blue heaven--he
had never looked heavenward before in all his wretched years,--then, wearing that same old
look of his mother's, he turned, without a word, and re-entered the prison.

Back to the pump, the lash, and at last to the dungeon.

But he no longer dreaded it. It was the Sabbath, and the shackles had been removed, but he
was too weary to notice the rat that came out and sat peering at him, nibbling at his wet prison
clothes, and his feet and hands. Even the carrion did not disturb any more. The scent of the
wild grape blooms was still in his nostrils. And when the day wore on, and the two o'clock
bell sounded, calling the men to Sunday school, he started up with a cry of "Here." He had
thought the bell a voice at the dungeon door, and fancied that it said, "friend!"

He dropped back, with a smile on his lips. Could old Nance have peeped in at that moment she
would have pronounced him very like his mother with that smile, and that stanch old heroism
shining in his wide, dead eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Down in the office the registrar entered upon the death list:

"James Royal--Natural death."

Natural? then God help the unnatural.

"The worst one ever fell into our hands," the warden told the minster as he came out of the
chapel with the soft-voiced friend of the dead man's. "Not a spark of good in him, parson.
Jim Royal knocks your theory all to pieces."

But the friend had been telling the minister a story. And as he passed out at the rattling
stockade gate, he, too, glanced up at the blue sky. His doubts were gone, if there had been
any, his faith was planted in God's eternal goodness.

"Can such die?" he mused, "such faithfulness, such magnificent courage, such glorious fidelity?
Is it possible that such can pass away into eternal torment?"

The soft wind touched his cheek and bore heavenward the prayer he breathed:--

"Forbid it, Almighty God."

EDITORIAL NOTES.

RELIGIOUS INTOLERANCE TO-DAY. PERSECUTED FOR CONSCIENCE SAKE.

The decision recently handed down by Judge Hammond, of the United States District Court, in
the celebrated case of R. M. King, is rich in lessons of vital importance to thoughtful minds
at the present time of unrest, when conservatism is seeking on every hand, even under the cloak
of radical movements, to secure statutes and legal constructions of laws which may at an early
day be used to fetter thought, crush liberty, and throttle the vanguard of progress. Briefly
stated, the important facts in the case in question are as follows: Mr. King is an honest,
hard-working farmer. He is charged with no breach of morals; in fact, it appears that he is
a remarkably upright man. But he is a Seventh Day Adventist; that is, he does not hold the
same religious views as the majority in his State. He stands in the same relation to his countrymen
as that occupied by the early disciples of Christ to Roman society when Nero undertook to punish
Christians by kindling nightly human fires for the delectation of conservative or majority
thought. He is of the minority, even as the Huguenots were in the minority when the Church
tortured, racked, and burned them for the glory of God and the good of humanity. He is of the
minority, as was Roger Williams when, in 1635, the popular and conventional thought of Salem
banished him. Mr. King is not an infidel or even a doubter. On the contrary he is ardently
religious, being a zealous and conscientious member of a sect of Christians noted for their
piety and faith. The Adventists, of whom he is an honored member, it must be remembered, hold
somewhat peculiar views about the second advent of Christ. They believe they find in the Bible
commands making it obligatory upon them to keep holy the seventh day of the week, or the Hebrew
Sabbath, instead of Sunday, the holiday and rest day observed by most Christian denominations.
Now it was shown in the trial that, conforming to his belief, Mr. King strictly observed the
Sabbath on Saturday, but being a poor farmer he could not afford to rest two days each week,
or over one hundred days in the year, and, therefore, after having kept the Sabbath he plowed
in his field on Sunday. This aroused the pious indignation of the narrow-minded and bigoted
members of the community who profess to follow that great Leader who taught us to judge not,
to resist not evil, and to do unto others as we would have others do unto us. These Christians
(?) who, unfortunately for the cause of justice and religious liberty, are in the majority
in Tennessee, had this conscientious, God-fearing man arrested as a common felon, and convicted
of the heinous crime (?) of Sabbath-breaking by plowing on Sunday. He appealed to the Supreme
Court, and the sentence was affirmed. Then the Adventists and the National Secular Association
took up the case. Hon. Don M. Dickinson was engaged as counsel, and the case was taken to the
Federal Court last November on a writ of habeas corpus, the contention being that the conviction
was contrary to the bill of rights of Tennessee and the Constitution of the United States,
and that the defendant was held prisoner by the sheriff without due process of law. The application
was argued several months ago, and Judge Hammond has had it under advisement until recently,
when his decision was given in which the defendant was remanded back to the custody of the
sheriff to pay the fine or serve the time according to the sentence. This decision holds that
malice, religious or otherwise, may dictate a prosecution, but if the law has been violated
this fact does not shield the law-breaker. Neither do the courts require that there shall be
some moral obloquy to support a given law before enforcing it, and it is not necessary to maintain
that to violate the Sunday observance customs shall be of itself immoral to make it criminal
in the eyes of the law.

Suggestive, indeed, are the lessons of this great judicial crime against liberty, justice,
and God. In the first place it illustrates the fact which must long since have become apparent
to thinking men that the guarantee of the Constitution of the United States, which, more than
aught else, has made this Republic the flower of all preceding nations, is yearly becoming
less and less regarded by the small men and narrow minds who interpret law and who, instead
of showing how unconstitutional any law is which violates the great charter of right, yield
to the present craze for Governmental Paternalism, paying no more heed to our Constitution
than if it was the ukase of a Czar. In numerous instances during the past decade has this solemn
fact been emphasized, until it is evident that with the reaction toward Paternalism and centralization
has come the old time spirit of intolerance and moral obloquy on the part of the governing
powers which has been one of the chief curses of the ages, entailing indescribable misery on
the noblest and best, and holding in subjection the vanguard of progress, which always has
been and always will be the minority, regarded by the majority as dangerous innovators or disseminators
of false theories and doctrines. In my article on Socialism I noted the case of Mr. King, observing
that:--

     He in no way deserves the shameful imprisonment he is suffering;
     yet the prejudice of the majority sustains the infamous law that
     makes criminals of the innocent and takes not into consideration
     the rights of the minority. And what is more, the religious
     press is so dominated by bigotry and ancient prejudice that it is
     blind alike to the Golden Rule and the inexorable demands of
     justice. If in any State the Adventists, the Hebrews, or any
     other people who believed in observing Saturday instead of Sunday
     should happen to predominate, and they undertook to throw
     Christians into dungeons, and after branding them criminals
     should send them to the penitentiary for working on Saturday,
     indignation would blaze forth throughout Christendom against the
     great injustice, the wrong against the liberty of the rights of
     the citizen. The only difference is that poor Mr. King is in the
     minority; he is the type of those who always have been and always
     will be made to suffer when the government is strong enough to
     persecute all who do not accept what is considered truth and
     right by the majority.

In replying to my paper Mr. Bellamy thus flippantly dismissed this case: "Of this it may be
remarked that had it happened two centuries ago it would have been symptomatic; to-day it is
a curiosity." To-day we are told that this great judicial crime is a curiosity, although the
religious bigotry of the majority has been upheld by the lower, the federal, and supreme courts,
while the religious press has, with rare exceptions, sanctioned the persecution or ignored
the case.

In vain the long-cherished idea that this country was to pass down the cycle of time known
as the land of freedom; that it was to be forever the asylum for religious liberty and the
cradle of progress, unless the sober thought of our people be at once aroused to stem the rising
tide of Governmentalism and the steady encroachment of religious organizations and despotic
foreign thought.

Comparatively few of the leading secular journals[6] have deemed this outrage sufficiently
important to call for editorial comment, notwithstanding it marks the establishing of a precedent
which must inevitably work great misery to innocent people at the hands of religious fanatics,
unless there is a sufficient agitation to cause the repeal of many iniquitous laws which are
a menace to the rightful freedom of citizens as long as they remain on the statute books.

      [6] Among the few papers which have denounced this judicial
          crime are the New York Commercial Advertiser and the St.
          Louis Republic. The former journal observes: "It seems
          that the glorious clause of the Constitution can give no
          protection to men who conscientiously believe they should
          literally observe the Fourth Commandment.... It seems that
          when a State seeks to enforce religious duty all consciences
          must bow before it. That is to say, if, for example, the
          Catholics of Louisiana were to pass a law that no man should
          taste meat on Friday, the act would be no infringement of
          religious liberty.

          There can be but one opinion upon this decision among all
          liberal-minded men. It is odious sophistry, unworthy of the
          age in which we live. And under it an American citizen has
          been condemned to spend the rest of his days in a dungeon
          unless he shall stoop to deny the dictates of his own
          conscience and dishonor his own manhood.

          The Republic in an editorial of August second says: "Not
          being able to leave his crops unworked for two days in the
          week, Mr. King ploughed them on Sunday, after having kept
          the Sabbath the day before. He was arrested under the Sunday
          law, and in order to make it effective against him it was
          alleged that his work on his own farm on Sunday created a
          public nuisance. On this entirely untenable ground he has
          been harassed from court to court. He was a poor man, but he
          has been supported by the friends of religious liberty. Mr.
          King has been greatly wronged, but his only remedy at law is
          under the law and Constitution of Tennessee. It appears that
          for the present his remedy is denied him, and this being the
          case he has no better recourse than to submit to the
          oppression and go to prison--to the convict camp, if it
          suits the convenience of his persecutors to send him there."

SOCIAL CONDITIONS UNDER LOUIS XV. A LESSON FOR THE PRESENT DAY.

To the superficial observer who, as guests of royalty, loitered through the sunny days which
marked the closing years of Louis XV., France presented the aspect of a gay, thoughtless, happy,
butterfly nation, whose government on the whole satisfied the requirements of the rich and
powerful, and was sustained by the strong arm of the army on the one hand and the impregnable
influence of the Church on the other. Small heed was to be given to the pamphleteers, whose
brilliant satire, biting sarcasm, and pointed logic afforded amusement at the Louvre, rather
than struck dismay to the hearts of those who fondly believed that the Church still held in
thrall the brain of the masses, and that as for centuries the people had been content with
slavery and vassalage, it was absurd to imagine they had now come to man's estate, had, Phoenix-like,
arisen from the ashes of old-time sullen obedience or ignorant content, into the tumultuous
atmosphere of intellectual activity. It is true, some far-seeing brains beheld the coming storm
and warned the king, urging him to either suppress the philosophers, or concede to the masses
a greater meed of justice, but their views were scouted by the ruling or conventional thought
of the court, and life at the Louvre continued a merry whirl of carnal and selfish delight.
The morning brought the chases, and evening the banquet, the theatre, or the ball; while at
intervals grand polytechnic exhibitions delighted the populace, being given, probably, in the
vain hope that they would satisfy the rising discontent, much as the gladiatorial shows satisfied,
while they still further brutalized, the degraded populace of ancient Rome, making possible
the toleration of such colossal iniquity as marked the decline of the Empire. Such, then, was
the aspect of court life, while above the social and political horizon were gathering clouds
which prophesied the greatest cataclysm civilization had witnessed. The wilful short-sightedness,
the supreme indifference to the principles of justice, liberty, and fraternity; the conspicuous
absence of the spirit of humanity, which characterized those who might have averted the coming
baptism of blood, was the legitimate result of the anæsthetizing of the soul of the Court and
aristocracy with the lust of the eye, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life. The divine
spark had disappeared. The spiritual nature had given way to the sensual. Ambition and pleasure
were enthroned in the seats of justice and humanity. Selfishness was the keynote of aristocratic
life. And with this fact kept in view, the short-sightedness of royalty in the presence of
the rising tide of intelligent discontent is by no means strange. Indifferent to the fate of
the masses in any struggle that might be precipitated, guided by none of the higher impulses
of life, and possessing implicit confidence in the impregnability of that triple bulwark of
conservatism, the army, the police, and the Church, the ruling party of French aristocracy
drifted down the stream garlanded with roses, revelling in wine and music, abandoning itself
to pleasure on life's lowest plane.

To the student of social conditions, who might have been a guest of the philosopher Rousseau,
the picture photographed on the mental retina would have been far different. Above he would
have beheld the round of selfish, thoughtless gaiety, in which the images and intrigues of
Madame Dubarry and Marie Antoinette, of Choiseul and Rohan, of Louis and Richelieu, were strangely
mingled and distorted by exaggeration, as they sifted down from the Court through several layers
of brains until they reached the world of the newly awakened laborer. Below him would have
yawned, in all its hideousness, the blackness of the pit, the social cellar into which he would
have seen thousands and scores of thousands of his fellow-men crowded or driven by want, misfortune,
or the avarice of the more powerful, and from which so few who once fall ever rose to the noble
estate of true manhood and womanhood. Around him he would have noted still another world, more
interesting and yet more terrible in its ferocity and power than those above and below--the
realm of the common people--the sphere of the masses--the current which passed over the darkest
dregs and bore on its surface the scum. In this world the strange and interesting phenomenon
would have met his eye of a newly awakened brain, an intellect which after ages of semi-unconsciousness,
had, in a surprisingly short time, been aroused by the intellectual brilliancy of thinkers
who had flooded a nation with new ideas, who had kindled the fires of justice, who had spoken
in the ear of all the people the doctrine of the essential brotherhood of man, the kinship
of the throne and the shop, the idler in the palace and the idler in the cellar; the cormorant
who dined off the labor of others at Lucerne, and the low-browed outcasts occupied in the same
way but pursuing different methods, in the social sewer. And he would have noticed an unusual
activity in this working world; secret meetings were being held on every hand. The great philosophical
works of Rousseau breathing a new hope and a larger life into the soul of every reader, and
the withering satire of Voltaire falling against the battlements of the church and the throne--these
were the text-books and watchword of the new revolution. Tens of thousands of men who a few
years before had accepted unquestioningly the assurance of the priests and obeyed as children
the decrees of Royalty, were now thinking as never before on justice and equity, were students
and intelligent expounders of the master brains which blossomed forth on every hand, in spite
of priest and police. Heresy and liberty, justice and freedom, progress and equity had joined
hands; conventionalism was doomed. The cry for justice went up from every hand to the crown
and the aristocracy, only to come back with a mocking laugh or a royal restrictive decree.
Thus the flame was fanned. The noble teaching of the great apostles of light and justice which
illuminated the brains of the people and at first filled their hearts with holy love and wonderful
tenderness, making them ready to accept and only desirous of receiving that measure of justice
and consideration to which they knew they were entitled, later changed to feelings of hate
and desire for revenge which ever grows as mushrooms in the average mind when justice is denied
and oppression bears down more relentlessly at each complaint that comes from the oppressed.
It is a law of life on the lower plane that selfishness, indifference, and heartlessness coming
from above are photographed upon the sensitive intellect of the struggling minds below, which
vainly ask for justice, only to return in time intensified a hundred-fold--selfishness becomes
active and is complemented by an insane desire to destroy. Indifference calls forth unbridled
ferocity. Heartlessness awakens sentiments of cruelty and brutality as relentless and destructive
as the cyclone.

The social sewer or cellar of Paris at this time presented as interesting and suggestive a
study as the toiling world above. Here were thousands of human beings dwelling in the atmosphere
of crime and brutality, hungry, cold, and well-nigh hopelessly vicious by virtue of want, association,
and environment, and ready for, if not eagerly anticipating any social upheaval which would
afford them an opportunity to plunder and pillage. This world presented then, as it ever must,
the saddest and most hopeless spectacle in the kaleidoscope of life. There were scores of thousands
in this social sewer and new recruits coming daily. The avarice and extravagance of the Court
pressed upon the great stratum of middle life, which in time bore down upon the lower sphere
with crushing weight, while many of its numbers, weary of the eternal struggle, relaxed their
hold on respectability and fell into the pit of crime and moral death. The inhabitants of this
realm presented a picture of ferocity and despair, which must necessarily prove a frightful
element in a revolution. The social cellar was only waiting for the signal when its hideous
throat would belch forth death as surely as cannon or mortar ever hurled the life-destroying
bomb. Such was life in France in the world of the wealthy and the world of want; while Louis
drank Dubarry's health; while Marie Antoinette longed for her childhood home, and the Dauphin
busied himself with geography, lock-making, and clock-repairing.

When Louis XV. died the scum had so thoroughly poisoned the great current of life in France
that it is probable that even had there been far wiser heads at the helm of State than Louis
XVI. and his councillor they would have found it difficult, if not impossible, to prevent a
bloody reckoning, for the love of peace and reverence for justice, the cool judgment and mature
wisdom which swayed the popular mind at an early day was well-nigh drowned in the rising tide
of angry discontent and intense hate. A settled conviction pervaded the soul of the masses
that the hour had come when might should make right the age-long wrongs of the people; and
when an idea of this character possesses the rank and file of a nation it is almost impossible
even by a liberal policy to avert a bloody issue.

I have dwelt upon this striking passage of history because it bristles with suggestive lessons
and warning notes to the great Republic at the present time, and because the grave evils, which
are as symptomatic to-day as were the signs of the times portentous in the reign of the easy-going,
sensual Louis, are being met by those who have it in their power to avert a social catastrophe
in precisely the same short-sighted spirit as characterized the conservative aristocracy when
it denied the existence of the universal discontent among the masses and flippantly dismissed
the angry muttering of the coming storm as merely the expression of a few shallow-brained malcontents.
To-day we find the same brutal indifference and selfishness as was so conspicuous at the Louvre
in 1770, exhibited by our mushroom aristocracy of the dollar, composed of those who form and
control the great monopolies, syndicates, trusts, and combines, which are so cruelly oppressing
the many that the few may grow many times millionnaires; together with the great railway magnates,
who have through watering stock on the one hand, and plundering the commonwealth of farmers
by exorbitant freights on the other, dishonestly amassed colossal fortunes. And that still
more baleful communion which forms such an important part of America's shoddy aristocracy,
the Wall Street gamblers, they who rule "the street," paralyzing healthy business, causing
panics at will, and annually sweeping to the wall, to ruin and to death numbers of victims
who have been lured into their snares by deceptive reports industriously circulated and extensively
published by paid agents of these same brigands of the commercial world.

This mushroom plutocracy, whose representatives hold colossal fortunes acquired rather than
earned, practically rule our business interests by virtue of the enormous opportunities afforded
by their great wealth. And year by year are they increasing the rising tide of indignation
in the hearts of millions of hard-working men and women, by grinding down more and still more
hopelessly the multitude dependent on them, whom they can reduce to starvation if they rebel.
Another element, which, viewed from the plane of justice and equity may be rightly termed criminal,
is the popular and conservative economist who caters to the plutocracy and with brazen effrontery
denies facts susceptible of proof, while he denounces every reformer who seeks to expose the
iniquities of the present. This course is precisely a repetition of the policy of those who
minified the real danger and misrepresented the grave facts to the Court of France, at a time
when an honest, truthful representation might have averted the most terrible revolution in
the annals of civilization. Only a short time since a popular economic writer denounced a Boston
clergyman for unveiling the horrors of the sweating system in the modern Athens. He could not
deny the truth of the sickening facts described, but termed the minister a member of one of
the "most dangerous class" of citizens, merely because he spoke the truth with a view to bettering
the condition of society's exiles.

At a recent meeting of the Rhode Island weavers, a distinguished and popular conservative economic
writer addressed the hard struggling workingmen. During his remarks he sought to make them
blindly and contentedly accept their lot by saying in honeyed tones: "Why, my dear friends,
the production of the country only furnishes $200 a head annually, and it is hard to make it
go around. It is only by hard pinching and careful economy that we can make it do so;" while
almost within gunshot of the speaker rose the palaces of America's millionnaires, at Newport,
where gigantic fortunes are annually squandered with lavish hands; where Mr. McAllister and
his butterfly coterie of wealthy gourmands eat, drink, and dance away the summer, and illustrate
how these children of idleness and wealth have to "pinch and plan" to make their share "of
the $200 go around," of which the distinguished conservative economist spoke. If the masses
of our people were unable to read or write, if they had been accustomed to centuries of oppression,
a policy so glaringly unjust and disingenuous might succeed for a time. But with conditions
as they are, the persistent crying of peace when there is no peace, and attempting to juggle
with facts is more than foolish, it is criminal. One who does not regularly read the labor
and agricultural press of this country is incapable of forming an intelligent idea of the nature
or extent of the discontent at the present time. Then again, beyond this commonwealth of struggling
toilers rises another commonwealth, the frightful condition of which no careful student can
ignore. I refer to society's exiles, or the contingent of the social cellar. This element grows
more powerful with each year. It is not securing justice at the hands of civilization and must
some day be reckoned with.

In every agitation, every crusade against wrong, every battle for humanity, every contest for
a broader sweep of justice, conventional critics have arrayed themselves on the side of the
evil conditions, and denounced as dangerous agitators those who have sought to arouse the higher
impulses of the people to right the crying wrongs of the hour. The treatment of Garrison and
Phillips by this class in Boston, even in the shadow of the Cradle of Liberty, during the anti-slavery
agitation, is of sufficiently recent date to emphasize this point, which has been paralleled
in every important agitation for a higher civilization and a more just condition. To ignore
the serious social unrest of the present, and the bitter cry of the weak for justice, is to
follow the fatal precedent set by the French government. To deny the reality of the wrongs
complained of, or lightly dismiss them as our popular economists are doing, is to pursue the
ostrich policy with the certainty of being overtaken by the results of the evil which might
have been averted. It matters not whether our "eminent" authorities are ignorant of the true
social condition in city and country life to-day, or are wickedly juggling with truth in order
to curry favor with plutocracy and conservatism, the fact remains that they are deceiving their
masters as courtiers have often deceived thrones at moments when deception meant ruin. The
duty of the hour is to turn on the light, to compel the thoughtful among our wealthy and powerful
people to know the truth as it is, and to seek such a just and equitable revolution as will
save a baptism of blood. The day for prophesying smooth things is past; we are face to face
with problems and conditions which will not brook dishonest treatment. The exigencies of the
present hour demand that we frankly face the social problems as they are and honestly discuss
them in all their bearings. That we call to witness the impressive lessons of history and if
possible, avert the repetition of the cataclysms of the past by prompt measures, marked by
wisdom and justice. It is not too late to prevent a revolution of force if wealth and power
will heed the cry of want and weakness; if justice, courage, and duty supplant self-interest
and indifference in the hearts of those who see and feel the rising tide of angry discontent.
To-day if we would demonstrate that a century of civilization and free government has lifted
us to a higher ethical level than humanity had attained a hundred years ago, we must face conditions
as they are and promptly adopt measures that will secure such a meed of justice for the weak
as shall take from his heart the bitterness of injustice and establish a feeling of common
brotherhood and good-will.

       *       *       *       *       *

