The next day, in spite of the brief influence of the Norther, the first case of yellow fever
showed itself in the hospital; before night seven had sickened, and one, already reduced by
chronic disease, died. I had hoped to bury Jackson decently, in the cemetery of the city, where
his vexed mortality might rest in peace under the oleanders and china-trees, shut in by the
hedge of Cherokee roses that guards the enclosure from the prairie, a living wall of glassy
green, strewn with ivory-white buds and blossoms, fair and pure; but on applying for a burial-spot,
the city authorities, panic-stricken cowards that they were, denied me the privilege even of
a prairie grave, outside the cemetery hedge, for the poor fellow. In vain did I represent that
he had died of lingering disease, and that nowise contagious; nothing moved them. It was enough
that there was yellow fever in the ward where he died. I was forthwith strictly ordered to
have all the dead from the hospital buried on the sand-flats at the east end of the island.

What a place that is it is scarcely possible to describe. Wide and dreary levels of sand, some
four or five feet lower than the town, and flooded by high tides; the only vegetation a scanty,
dingy gray, brittle, crackling growth,--bitter sandworts and the like; over and through which
the abominable tawny sand-crabs are constantly executing diabolic waltzes on the tips of their
eight legs, vanishing into the ground like imps as you approach; curlews start from behind
the loose drifts of sand and float away with heartbroken cries seaward; little sandpipers twitter
plaintively, running through the weeds; and great, sulky, gray cranes droop their motionless
heads over the still salt pools along the shore.

To this blank desolation I was forced to carry poor Jackson's body, with that of the fever-patient,
just at sunset. As the Dutchman who officiated as hearse, sexton, bearer, and procession, stuck
his spade into the ground, and withdrew it full of crumbling shells and fine sand, the hole
it left filled with bitter black ooze. There, sunk in the ooze, covered with the shifting sand,
bewailed by the wild cries of sea-birds, noteless and alone, I left Eben Jackson, and returned
to the mass of pestilence and wretchedness within the hospital walls.

In the spring I reached home safely. None but the resident on a Southern sand-bank can fully
appreciate the verdure and bloom of the North. The great elms of my native town were full of
tender buds, like a clinging mist in their graceful branches; earlier trees were decked with
little leaves, deep-creased, and silvery with down; the wide river in a fluent track of metallic
lustre weltered through green meadows that on either hand stretched far and wide; the rolling
land beyond was spread out in pastures, where the cattle luxuriated after the winter's stalling;
and on many a slope and plain the patient farmer turned up his heavy sods and clay, to moulder
in sun and air for seed-time and harvest; and the beautiful valley that met the horizon on
the north and south rolled away eastward and westward to a low blue range of hills, that guarded
it with granite walls and bristling spears of hemlock and pine.

This is not my story; and if it were, I do not know that I should detail my home-coming. It
is enough to say, that I came after a five years' absence, and found all that I had left nearly
as I had left it;--how few can say as much!

Various duties and some business arrangements kept me at work for six or seven weeks, and it
was June before I could fulfil my promise to Eben Jackson. I took the venerable old horse and
chaise that had carried my father on his rounds for years, and made the best of my way out
toward Simsbury. I was alone, of course; even Cousin Lizzy, charming as five years had made
the little girl of thirteen whom I had left behind on quitting home, was not invited to share
my drive; there was something too serious in the errand to endure the presence of a gay young
lady. But I was not lonely; the drive up Talcott Mountain, under the rude portcullis of the
toll-gate, through fragrant woods, by trickling brooks, past huge boulders that scarce a wild
vine dare cling to, with its feeble, delicate tendrils, is all exquisite, and full of living
repose; and turning to descend the mountain, just where a brook drops headlong with clattering
leap into a steep black ravine, and comes out over a tiny green meadow, sliding past great
granite rocks, and bending the grass-blades to a shining track, you see suddenly at your feet
the beautiful mountain valley of the Farmington river, trending away in hill after hill,--rough
granite ledges crowned with cedar and pine,--deep ravines full of heaped rocks,--and here and
there the formal white rows of a manufacturing village, where Kühleborn is captured and forced
to turn water-wheels, and Undine picks cotton or grinds hardware, dammed into utility.

Into this valley I plunged, and inquiring my way of many a prim farmer's wife and white-headed
school-boy, I edged my way northward under the mountain side, and just before noon found myself
beneath the "great ellum," where, nearly twenty years ago, Eben Jackson and Hetty Buel had
said good-bye.

I tied my horse to the fence and walked up the worn footpath to the door. Apparently no one
was at home. Under this impression I knocked vehemently, by way of making sure; and a weak,
cracked voice at length answered, "Come in!" There, by the window, perhaps the same where she
sat so long before, crouched in an old chair covered with calico, her bent fingers striving
with mechanical motion to knit a coarse stocking, sat old Mrs. Buel. Age had worn to the extreme
of attenuation a face that must always have been hard-featured, and a few locks of snow-white
hair, straying from under the bandanna handkerchief of bright red and orange that was tied
over her cap and under her chin, added to the old-world expression of her whole figure. She
was very deaf; scarcely could I make her comprehend that I wanted to see her grand-daughter;
at last she understood, and asked me to sit down till Hetty should come from school; and before
long, a tall, thin figure opened the gate and came slowly up the path.

I had a good opportunity to observe the constant, dutiful, self-denying Yankee girl,--girl
no longer, now that twenty years of unrewarded patience had lined her face with unmistakable
graving. But I could not agree with Eben's statement that she was not pretty; she must have
been so in her youth; even now there was beauty in her deep-set and heavily fringed dark eyes,
soft, tender, and serious, and in the noble and pensive Greek outline of the brow and nose;
her upper lip and chin were too long to agree well with her little classic head, but they gave
a certain just and pure expression to the whole face, and to the large thin-lipped mouth, flexible
yet firm in its lines. It is true, her hair was neither abundant, nor wanting in gleaming threads
of gray; her skin was freckled, sallow, and devoid of varying tint or freshness; her figure
angular and spare; her hands red with hard work; and her air at once sad and shy;--still, Hetty
Buel was a very lovely woman in my eyes, though I doubt if Lizzy would have thought so.

I hardly knew how to approach the painful errand I had come on, and with true masculine awkwardness
I cut the matter short by drawing out from my pocket-book the Panama chain and ring, and placing
them in her hands. Well as I thought I knew the New England character, I was not prepared for
so quiet a reception of this token as she gave it. With a steady hand she untwisted the wire
fastening of the chain, slipped the ring off, and, bending her head, placed it reverently on
the ring-finger of her left hand;--brief, but potent ceremony; and over without preface or
comment, but over for all time.

Still holding the chain, she offered me a chair, and sat down herself,--a little paler, a little
more grave, than on entering.

"Will you tell me how and where he died, Sir?" said she,--evidently having long considered
the fact in her heart as a fact; probably having heard Seth Crane's story of the Louisa Miles's
loss.

I detailed my patient's tale as briefly and sympathetically as I knew how. The episode of Wailua
caused a little flushing of lip and cheek, a little twisting of the ring, as if it were not
to be worn, after all; but as I told of his sacred care of the trinket for its giver's sake,
and the not unwilling forsaking of that island wife, the restless motion passed away, and she
listened quietly to the end; only once lifting her left hand to her lips, and resting her head
on it for a moment, as I detailed the circumstances of his death, after supplying what was
wanting in his own story, from the time of his taking passage in Crane's ship, to their touching
at the island, expressly to leave him in the Hospital, when a violent hemorrhage had disabled
him from further voyaging.

I was about to tell her I had seen him decently buried,--of course omitting descriptions of
the how and where,--when the grandmother, who had been watching us with the impatient querulousness
of age, hobbled across the room to ask "what that 'are man was a-talkin' about."

Briefly and calmly, in the key long use had suited to her infirmity, Hetty detailed the chief
points of my story.

"Dew tell!" exclaimed the old woman; "Eben Jackson a'n't dead on dry land, is he? Left means, eh?"

I walked away to the door, biting my lip. Hetty, for once, reddened to the brow; but replaced
her charge in the chair and followed me to the gate.

"Good day, Sir," said she, offering me her hand,--and then slightly hesitating,--"Grandmother
is very old. I thank you, Sir! I thank you kindly!"

As she turned and went toward the house, I saw the glitter of the Panama chain about her thin
and sallow throat, and, by the motion of her hands, that she was retwisting the same wire fastening
that Eben Jackson had manufactured for it.

Five years after, last June, I went to Simsbury with a gay picnic party. This time Lizzy was
with me; indeed, she generally is now.

I detached myself from the rest, after we were fairly arranged for the day, and wandered away
alone to "Miss Buel's."

The house was closed, the path grassy, a sweetbrier bush had blown across the door, and was
gay with blossoms; all was still, dusty, desolate. I could not be satisfied with this. The
meeting-house was as near as any neighbor's, and the graveyard would ask me no curious questions;
I entered it doubting; but there, "on the leeward side," near to the grave of "Bethia Jackson,
wife of John Eben Jackson," were two new stones, one dated but a year later than the other,
recording the deaths of "Temperance Buel, aged 96," and "Hester Buel, aged 44."

       *       *       *       *       *

AMOURS DE VOYAGE.

  XI.--CLAUDE TO EUSTACE.
  I shall, however, get George, before he goes, to say something.

[To be continued.]

A WELSH MUSICAL FESTIVAL.

I had been knocking about London, as the phrase goes, for more months than I choose to mention,
when, my purse presenting unmistakable symptoms of a coming state of collapse, I began seriously
to look about me for the means of replenishing it. Luckily, I had not to wait long for an opportunity.
One morning, as I sat in the box of a coffee-room in Holborn, running my eye over the advertisement
columns of the "Times," I met with one which promised novelty, at least; I had had too much
experience in such matters to anticipate from it any very great pecuniary compensation. The
said advertisement was to the effect, that a gentleman who combined literary tastes with business
habits was required to edit a paper published in a town in South Wales; and it went on to state,
that application, personally or by letter, might be made to the proprietor of the said journal
at M----.

That I possessed some taste for literature I was well enough assured; but as for my "business
habits," perhaps the least said about them, the better. This condition of candidateship, however,
I quietly shirked, while counting over my few remaining coins, scarcely more than sufficient,
after paying my landlady, to defray my expenses to M----, some one hundred and sixty miles
distant. Determining, then, to assume a commercial virtue, though I had it not, I quitted the
metropolis, and in due time reached the land of leeks, with a light heart, and seven and sixpence
sterling in my pocket.

A queer little Welsh town was M----, with an androgynous population,--or so it seemed to me,
who had never before beheld women wearing men's hats and coats, and men with head-coverings
and other articles of apparel of a very ambiguous description. It chanced to be market-day
when I arrived, so that I had a capital opportunity of observing the population for whose edification
my "literary tastes" were, I hoped, to be called into requisition. But at the very outset a
tremendous difficulty stared me in the face. Nine out of every ten of the people I met or passed
spoke in a language that to me was as unintelligibly mysterious as the cuneiform characters
on Mr. Layard's Nineveh sculptures. It was a hard, harsh, guttural dialect, which even those
who were to the manner born seemed to jerk out painfully and spasmodically from their lingual
organs. This was especially obvious during a bargain, where an excited market-man was endeavoring
to pass off a tough old gander as a tender young goose, to some equally excited customer. It
was dissonant enough to my ear, but I fancy it would have driven a sensitive Italian to distraction.
After listening to the horrible jargon for some time, I could easily believe the story which
poor William Maginn used to tell with such unction, of the origin of the Welsh language. It
was to this effect.--When the Tower of Babel was being built, the workmen all spoke one tongue.
Just at the very instant when the "confusion" occurred, a mason, trowel in hand, called for
a brick. This his assistant was so long in handing to him, that he incontinently flew into
a towering passion, and discharged from the said trowel a quantity of mortar, which entered
the other's windpipe just as he was stammering out an excuse. The air, rushing through the
poultice-like mixture, caused a spluttering and gurgling, which, blending with the half-formed
words, became that language ever since known as Welsh.--I think it my duty to advise the reader
never to tell this anecdote to any descendants of Cadwallader, who are peculiarly sensitive
on the subject, and so hot-blooded, that it is not at all unlikely the injudicious story-teller
might be deprived of any future opportunity of insulting the Ap-Shenkins, the Ap-Joneses, and
the race of very irascible Taffys in general.

I had, however, little time to study either language or character; so, after a plain dinner
at the Merlin's Head, the chief inn of the place, I set out for the purpose of seeing the newspaper
proprietor. Fortified by a letter of introduction and some testimonials, I entered his shop,--he
was a bookseller and stationer,--and inquired for Mr. F----.

"That's my name," said a red-faced man behind the counter. I handed him the introductory note,
he glanced at it and then at me, thrust it into his waistcoat pocket, and, as soon as he had
served the customer with whom he was engaged, led the way into a little room adjoining the
place of business.

Mr. F--- owned the newspaper; but, as he never ventured in a literary way beyond reading proofs
of advertisements, he was compelled to employ an editor to do the leaders, select from the
exchanges, prepare the local news, and get up the reporting. He was, however, a practical printer,
and, in the main, a good fellow. After looking at my testimonials and asking a few questions,
my services were accepted, and I was duly installed as editor of the "M---- Beacon," a small,
but rather influential county sheet. I ought to observe, that, as it circulated chiefly in
places where English was generally spoken, my ignorance of Welsh was of but little importance,
especially as the foreman of the printing-office was a Cambrian, who could correct any errors
I might make in Taffy's orthography, which, prodigal as it is of consonants and penurious of
vowels, and, as it regards pronunciation, embarrassing to the last degree, might drive Elihu
Burritt back to his smithy in an agony of despair.

Thus assisted, I got on tolerably well, though at first I made some awful mistakes in the names
of places mentioned by witnesses in courts of justice and elsewhere. For instance, at the assizes,
a man swore that he resided at a place which he pronounced Monothosluin, and so I spelt it
in my report. "Cot pless me, Sur!--sure inteed, and you have not spelt hur right," remarked
Mr. Morgan, the foreman; and for my edification he set it up thus,--Mynyddysllwyn. I almost
turned my tongue into a corkscrew, trying to speak the word as he did, and I fairly gave up
in despair. After that, I made it a rule, when I did not know how to spell some unpronounceable
word, to huddle a number of consonants together in most admired disorder, and I was then usually
nearer correctness than if I had orthographized by ear.

I had been installed in the editorial chair some six months when Mr. F---- informed me it was
necessary I should visit Abergavenny, a town some twenty-five miles distant, for the purpose
of reporting the proceedings at the CYMREIGGDDYON.

"And what the deuse is that?" I inquired.

I learned that it was a Triennial Musical Festival, so called,--at which all the musical talent
of Wales would be present; in short, that it was a very grand occasion indeed, would be patronized
by the aristocracy of the Principality, and full reports of each of the three days' proceedings
were absolutely necessary.

Here again the Welsh difficulty started up; but as the Cymreiggddyon would be quite a novelty,
I determined to trust to Chance and Circumstance,--two allies of mine who have gallantly aided
me in many a tough battle of literary life.

Remembering the words of Goldsmith,--"The young noble who is whirled through Europe in his
chariot sees society at a peculiar elevation, and draws conclusions widely different from him
who makes the grand tour on foot," I determined to make my way to Abergavenny either by means
of my own legs or through the chance aid of those of a Welsh pony. So, one bright morning,
with stick in hand, knapsack on shoulder, and a wandering artist for a companion, I started
for the iron district, as that part of Wales is termed. Wildly romantic were the roads we traversed;
and after having threaded many a glen, leaped frequent torrents, ascended and descended mountains
with impossible names, and plodded wearily across dreary moors, glad enough were we to observe,
in the less thinly scattered cottages, indications of a town.

The clouds had been gathering ominously during the latter half of our long day of travel,--and
as the sun set blood-red behind a heavy bank of vapor, it cast lurid reflections on large bodies
of dense mist, which sailed heavily athwart the crests of the mountains, with low, ragged,
trailing edges, that were too surely the precursors of a storm. Just before the orb finally
disappeared, its slant rays streamed through some dark purple bars on the horizon's verge,
and for an instant tinged the opposite distant mountains with strange supernatural hues. The
Blorenge and the Sugar Loaf glowed like huge carbuncles, while the pale green light which bathed
their bases gleamed faintly like a setting of aqua-marina. My artist companion incontinently
fell into professional raptures, and raved of "effect," and "Turner," and "Ruskin," heedless
of my advice that he had better hasten onward, lest night should overtake us in that wild region,
where sheep-tracks, scarcely visible even by daylight, were our sole guides. At length, however,
I managed to start him, and on we stalked, the decreasing twilight and the distant reverberations
of thunder among the mountains hastening our steps, until they became almost a trot.

But soon the trot declined once more into a walk, and a slow one too,--for we entered a gloomy
pass or gorge, whose rocky walls on either side effectually excluded what little light yet
lingered in the sky. Cautiously picking our way, we slowly travelled on, until at length we
became sensible of a faint red flush in the narrow strip of sky overhead. It seemed as though
the sun had just wheeled back to give a forgotten message to some starry-night-watcher,--or
so my companion intimated. But, unfortunately for his theory, the dull red glare above us,
which every moment deepened in intensity, was evidently the reflection of earthly, not heavenly
fire. I had seen too many conflagrations to doubt that for an instant. Presently a dull, confused
sound fell on our ears, and at a sudden turn round an angle of our mountain road we stood speechless
as we gazed on a spectacle which Milton might have conceived and Martin painted.

  "Far other light than that of day there shone
  Upon the wanderers entering Padalon,"

murmured the artist, as he gazed on the strange scene. And strange indeed was it to our startled
eyes. We stood on the end and summit of a mountain spur, some two thousand feet above the valley,
or rather basin, below, from the centre of which burst forth a thousand fires, whose dull roar--dulled
by distance--was like "the noise of the sea on an iron-bound shore." The extent of space covered
by those strange, fierce fires must have amounted to many acres,--in fact, did so, as we afterwards
ascertained,--and the effect produced by them may be partially imagined when it is remembered
that these flames were of all hues, from rich ruby-red, to the pale lurid light of burning
sulphur. Fancy all the gems of Aladdin's Palace or Sinbad's Valley in fierce flashing combustion,
immensely magnified, and you may form some faint idea of the scene in that Welsh valley.

Stretching out, like spokes of a gigantic wheel, from their fiery centre, were huge embankments,
like those of Titanic railways, whose summits and sides, especially towards their extremities,
glowed in patches with all the hues of the rainbow. As I gazed wonderingly on one of these,--a
real mountain of light, far surpassing the Koh-i-Noor,--I observed a dark figure gliding along
its summit, pushing something before it, like a black imp conveying an unfortunate soul from
one part of Tophet to another. At the extremity of the ridge the imp stopped, and suddenly
there shot down the steep, not a tortured ghost, but a shower of radiant gems even more brilliant
than those to which I have already referred.

"What, in the name of all that's wonderful, is that?" said my friend, Mr. Vandyke Brown; and
I was also trying to account for the phenomena, when a voice close to my ear--a voice which
I was certain belonged neither to Mr. B. nor myself--uttered the mysterious word,--

"Sl-aa-g!"

I looked round, and, sure enough, there stood a being who might very easily be mistaken for
a new arrival from the bottomless pit. Such, however, it was evident he was not. Though he
was black enough, in all conscience, he had neither horns, hoof, nor tail, and he was redolent
rather of 'bacco than brimstone; a queer old hat, in the band of which was stuck an unlighted
candle, covered a mass of matted red hair; his eyes were glaring and rimmed with red; and there
was a gash in his face where his mouth should have been. A loose flannel shirt, which had once
been red, a pair of indescribable trowsers, and thick-soled shoes, completed his dress,--an
attire which I at once recognized as that common among the coal-miners of the district.

"'Deed and truth, Sur, they is cinder-heaps and slag from the iron-works, Sur; and yon is Merthyr-Tydvil,
sure."

Piloted by our dusky guide,--not exactly, though, like Campbell's "Morning brought by Night,"--we
soon reached the town,--which is named after a young lady of legendary times named Tydfil,
a Christian martyr, of which Merthyr-Tydvil is a corruption,--and made the best of our way
to the Bush Inn, where we treated our sable friend to some cwrw dach,--Anglicé, strong ale;
and after a hearty supper of Welsh rabbit, which Tom Ingoldsby calls a "bunny without any bones,"
and "custard with mustard,"--which, as made in the Principality, it much resembles,--I took
a stroll through the town. It was a dull-looking place enough, and as dirty as dull; every
house was built with dingy gray stones, without any reference whatever to cleanliness or ventilation;
and as to the civilization of the inhabitants, I saw enough to convince me, that, to see real
barbarism, an Englishman need only visit that part of Great Britain called Wales. It was eight
in the evening, and the day-laborers at the furnaces had just left work. The doors of all the
cottages were open, and, as I passed them, in almost every one was to be seen a perfectly naked
stalwart man rubbing himself down with a dirty rough towel, while his wife and grown-up daughters
or sisters, almost as nude and filthy as himself, stood listlessly by, or prepared his supper.

Glad to escape from such disgusting objects, I hurried back to the Bush and to bed. But not
to rest, though; for during that long, miserable night, the eternal rattle of machinery, clattering
of hammers, whirling of huge wheels, and roaring of blast-furnaces completely murdered sleep.
Never, for one instant, did these sounds cease,--nor do they, it is said, the long year through;
for if any accident happens at one of the five great iron-works, there are four others which
rest not day nor night. Little, however, is this heeded by the people of Merthyr; they are
lulled to repose by the clatter of iron bars and the thumping of trip-hammers, but are instantaneously
awakened by the briefest intervals of silence.

Glad enough was I, the next morning early, to cross an ink-black stream and leave the town,
and pleasant was it to breathe the free, fresh mountain air, after inhaling the foul smoke
of the iron-works. Towards the close of the afternoon, after a delightful walk, a great portion
of it on the banks of the picturesque river Usk, we came in sight of Abergavenny, where the
Cymreiggddyon was to be held.

The first of the glorious three days was duly ushered in with the firing of cannon, ringing
of bells, and all kinds of extravagant jubilation. It wasn't quite as noisy as a Fourth of
July, but much more discordant. Strings of flags were suspended across the streets,--flags
with harps of all sorts and sizes displayed thereon,--flags with Welsh mottoes, English mottoes,
Scotch mottoes, and no mottoes at all. In front of the Town Hall was almost an acre of transparent
painting,--meant, that is, to be so after dark, but mournfully opaque and pictorially mysterious
in the full glare of sunshine. As far as I could make it out, it was the full-length portrait--taken
from life, no doubt--of an Ancient Welsh Bard. He was depicted as a baldheaded, elderly gentleman,
with upturned eyes, apparently regarding with reverence a hole in an Indian-ink cloud through
which slanted a gamboge sunbeam, and having a white beard, which streamed like a (horse-hair)
"meteor on the troubled air." This venerable minstrel was seated on a cairn of rude stones,
his white robe clasped at his throat and round his waist by golden brooches, and with a harp,
shaped like that of David in old Bible illustrations, resting on the sward before him. In the
background were some Druidical remains, by way of audience; and the whole was surrounded by
a botanical border, consisting of leeks, oak-leaves, laurel, and mistletoe, which had a very
rare and agreeable effect. Nor were these hieroglyphical decorations without a deep meaning
to a Cambrian; for while the oak-leaf typified the durability of Welsh minstrelsy, the mistletoe
its mysterious origin, and the laurel its reward, the national leek was pleasantly suggestive
of its usual culinary companions, Welsh mutton and toasted cheese.

As in America, so in Wales, almost every public matter is provocative of a procession, and
the proceedings of the Festival commenced with one. No doubt, it was to the eyes of the many,
who from scores of miles round had travelled to witness it, a very imposing and serious demonstration;
but anything more ridiculously amusing it was never my good fortune to see. I had, however,
to keep all my fun to myself, for Welshmen are not to be trifled with. By no means inclined
to subject myself to such inconvenient experiences, I prudently kept my eyes wide open and
my mouth shut,--or if I spoke, I merely asked questions, by which means I acquired necessary
information and passed off for a gratified stranger and an admiring spectator.

All the resources of the town and its neighborhood, and indeed of the county itself, had been
exhausted to give due effect to the parade, of which I regret to say that I cannot hope to
give any adequate description. All the usual elements of processions were to be seen. Bands
of music,--there were at least a dozen of them, all playing different pieces at one and the
same moment, which had a somewhat distracting effect on those sensitively-eared people who
weakly prefer one air at a time and do not appreciate tuneful tornadoes. As the procession
went by at a brisk pace, it was curious enough to notice how the last wailing notes of "A noble
race was Shenkin," played by a band in advance, blended with the brisk music of "My name's
David Price, and I'm come from Llangollen," performed by a company in the rear. In fact, it
was a genuine Welsh musical medley, and the daring genius who would have occupied himself in
"untwisting all the links which tied its hidden soul of harmony," would have had about as difficult
and distressing a task as he who tried to make ropes out of sea-sand.

Of course, these bands were made up of divers instruments, but the national harp was head and
chief of them all, as might naturally have been expected in such a place and at such a time.
There were harps of all sorts and shapes; some of the Welsh urchins had even Jews-harps between
their teeth. There were Irish harps, English harps, and Welsh harps. There was no Caledonian
harp, though; but a remarkably dirty fellow in the procession seemed to be making up for the
lack of one stringed instrument by bringing another,--the Scotch fiddle!--on which he perpetually
played the tune of "God bless the gude Duke of Argyle!" There were harps with one, two, and
three sets of strings,--harps with gold strings, silver strings, brass strings,--strings of
cat-gut and brass,--strings red, and brown, and white. I looked sharp for the "harp of a thousand
strings," but it was nowhere to be seen; and surmising that such is only played on by the spirits
of just men made perfect, I ceased to search further for it in that procession,--for though
the men composing it might be just enough, they were evidently a long way from perfection.
And when it is remembered that all these harps were twang-twanging away furiously, and that
their strings were being swept over with no Bochsa fingers, few will wonder that I longed for
cotton-wool, and blessed the memory of Paganini, who had only one string to his bow.

Harps, however, would be of little value, were there no bards to sing and no minstrels to play.
Walter Scott was decidedly wrong, when, speaking of his minstrel, he says,--

  "The last of all the bards was he."

Nonsense! I saw at least fifty in that procession,--regular, legitimate bards,--each one having
a bardic bald pate, a long white bardic beard, flowing bardic robes, bardic sandals, a bardic
harp in his hand, and an ancient bardic name. There was Bard Alaw, Bard Llewellyn, Bard Ap-Tudor,
Bard Llyyddmunnddggynn, (pronounce it, if you can, Reader,--I can't,) and I am afraid to say
how many more, in face of the high poetical authority I have just cited and refuted. Talk of
the age of poetry having passed away, when three-score and ten bards can be seen at one time
in a little Welsh town! These men of genius were headed by Bard Alaw, whose unpoetical name,
I almost hesitate to write it, was Williams,--Taliesin Williams,--the Welsh given name alone
redeeming it from obscurity. I found, too, to my disenchantment, that all the other bards were
Joneses and Morgans, Pryces and Robertses, when they were met in everyday life, before and
after these festivals; and that they kept shops, and carried on mechanical trades. Only fancy
Bard Ap-Tudor shaving you, or Bard Llyynnssllumpllyynn measuring you for a new pair of trowsers!

After the bards and minstrels came the gentry of the county, the clergy, and distinguished
strangers, before and behind whom banners floated and flags streamed. On many of these banners
were fancy portraits of Saint David, the Patron Saint of Wales, always with a harp in his hand.
But the Saint must have had a singularly varied expression of countenance, or else his portrait-painters
must have been mere block-heads, for no two of their productions were alike. I saw smiling
Davids, frowning Davids, mild Davids, and ferocious Davids,--Davids with oblique eyes, red
noses, and cavernous mouths,--and Davids as blind as bats, or with great goggle-orbs, aquiline
nasal organs, blue at the tips, and lips made for a lisp. One David had a brown Welsh wig on
his head, and was anachronistically attired in a snuff-colored coat, black small-clothes, gray,
coarse, worsted stockings, high-low boots, with buckles, and he wore on his head a three-cornered
hat, and used spectacles as big as tea-saucers. On my remarking to a bystander, that I was
not aware knee-breeches were worn in the time of the ancient kings, I was condescendingly informed
that this David was not the celebrated Monarch-Minstrel, but a Mr. Pryce David, the founder
of the Cymreiggddyon Society. But the most amusing David was one depicted on a banner carried
in front of a company of barbers belonging to the order of Odd Fellows. In that magnificent
work of art David was represented bewailing the death of Absalom, that unhappy young man being
seen hanging by his hair from a tree. Out of the mouth of David issued a scroll, on which was
inscribed the following touching verse:--

  "Oh, Absalom! Oh, Absalom!
    Oh, Absalom, my son!
  If thou hadst worn a good Welsh wig,
    Thou hadst not been undone!"

It was with no little trouble that I elbowed my way into the great temporary hall where the
exercises were to be held: but by dint of much pressing forward, I at length reached the reporters'
bench. Directly in front was a raised platform, and on two sides of the tent galleries had
been erected for the bards and orators. On the platform table were arranged prizes to be given
for the best playing, singing, and speaking,--and also for articles of domestic Welsh manufacture,
such as plaids, flannels, and the like. A large velvet and gilded chair was placed on a daïs
for the president, and on either side of this, seats for ladies and visitors. In a very short
time every corner of the spacious area was crammed.

And a pretty and a cheerful spectacle was presented wherever the eye turned. As in almost all
other gatherings of the kind, the fair sex were greatly in the majority; and during the interval
which elapsed between the opening of the doors and the beginning of business, the clatter of
female tongues was prodigious. The sex generally are voluble when in crowds; but as for Welsh
women, their loquacity was far beyond anything of the kind I had ever conceived of. And there
were some wonderfully handsome specimens of girlhood, womanhood, and matronhood among that
great gathering; though I am compelled to admit that in Wales beauty forms the exception, rather
than the rule.

But the bards are in their places,--the front rows of either gallery; the president has taken
his seat; the leading ladies of the county are in their chairs; and while the large audience
are settling down into their places, let us glance at two or three of the celebrities present.

On the foremost seat, to the right of the chairman, sits a lady who is evidently a somebody,
since all the gentlemen, on entering, pay her especial respect. She is rather past the middle
age, but has worn well; her eye is still bright, her cheek fresh-colored, and her skin smooth.
Evidently she takes much interest in the proceedings,--and little wonder,--for it is mainly
owing to her exertions that the Festival has not become one of the things that were. Her name?
You may see it embroidered in dahlias on yonder broad strip of white cotton, stretching across
the breadth of the hall, nearly over her head. These blossoms form the letters and words, GWENNEN
GWENT, or "The Bee of Gwent,"--Gwent being the ancient name of that portion of Glamorgan. The
title is apt enough; for Lady Hall--that is her matter-of-fact name--is proverbially one of
the busiest of her sex in all that relates to the welfare of her poorer neighbors. She is wife
of Sir Benjamin Hall, member of Parliament for the largest parish in London, St. Mary-le-bone,
and whose county residence is at Llanover Court, near Abergavenny. That tall, aristocratic
man near her is her husband; but he looks somewhat out of place there. As a member of the House
of Commons, he is prominent; but evidently his present position is not at all to his taste.

On the left of the chairman is another lady, whose name is well known in literary circles.
She is not Welsh by birth, though she is so by marriage,--she being united to one of the great
iron-masters. She has a large face, open and cheerful-looking, if not handsome. The forehead
is broad and white,--the eyes dark and lustrous. Formerly she was known to the reading world
as Lady Charlotte Lindsay; now she is Lady Charlotte Guest; a woman than whom very few archaeologists
are better acquainted with the Welsh language and its ancient literature. She is the author
of that very learned work, "The Mabinogion," a collection of early Welsh legends. This book
was printed a few years since by the pale-faced, intelligent-looking man who is standing behind
her chair,--Mr. Rees,--a printer in an obscure Welsh hamlet, named Llandovery. He has, with
perfect propriety, been termed the Welsh Elzevir; and certainly a finer specimen of typography
than that furnished by the "Mabinogion" can scarcely be produced.

The chairman is a pompous old nobody. Him I need not describe. The presiding and directing
spirit of the place is a tall, slender gentleman with snow-white hair, dark, flashing eyes,
and a graceful bearing; it is the Rev. Thomas Price, or, as his Welsh title has it, Carnuhanawc.
He is a thorough believer in the ultra-excellence of everything Welsh,--Welsh music, Welsh
flannels, Welsh scenery, Welsh mutton; and so far as regards the latter, I am quite of his
opinion. After a very animated speech, he directs the competitors on the triple harp to stand
forward and begin a harmonious contest.

There are three,--an old blind man, a young man, and a girl some fourteen years of age. Every
one cheers the latter lustily, and "wishes she may get it." So do I, of course; and I listen
with great interest as Miss Winifred Jenkins commences her performance, which she does without
blush or hesitation, and with quite an I-know-all-about-it sort of air. I forget the particular
piece the young lady played; but upon it she extemporized so many variations, that long before
she came to an ending I had lost all remembrance of the text from which she had deduced her
melodious sermon. There was, I thought, more mechanical tact than expression in her performance,
but it was enthusiastically applauded for all that; and with an awkward curtsy--much like Sydney
Smith's little servant-maid Bunch's "bobbing to the centre of the earth"--the red-cheeked little
harpist vanished.

Next came the young man; but several of the harp-strings at once snapped in consequence of
his fierce fingering, and he broke down amidst howls of guttural disapprobation. So far as
competition was concerned, he was, in sporting parlance, nowhere!

The old blind gentleman followed, and I do not think that I ever witnessed a more melancholy
spectacle. Apollo playing on his stringed instrument presents a very graceful appearance; but
fancy a Welsh Orpheus with a face all seamed and scarred by smallpox,--a short, fiery button
in the middle of his countenance, serving for a nose,--a mouth awry and toothless,--and two
long, dirty, bony hands, with claw-like fingers tipped with dark crescents,--and I do not think
the picture will be a pleasant one. If the horrible-looking old fellow had concealed his ghastly
eyes by colored glasses, the effect would not have been so disagreeable; but it was absolutely
frightful to see him rolling his head, as he played, and every now and then staring with the
whites of his eyes full in the faces of his unseen audience. At length, greatly to my relief,
he gave the last decisive twang, and was led away by his wife. It is almost needless to say
that the musical "Bunch" took the prize.

"Penillionn Singing" was the next attraction. This was something like an old English madrigal
done into Welsh, and, as a specimen of vocalization, pleasing enough,--as pleasing, that is,
as Welsh singing can be to an English ear; but how different from the soft, liquid Italian
trillings, the flexible English warblings, the melodious ballads of Scotland, or the rollicking
songs of Ireland! There was only one of the many singers I heard at the Festival who at all
charmed me, and that was a little vocalist of much repute in Southern Wales for her bird-like
voice and brilliancy of execution. Her professional name was pretty enough,--Eos Vach Morganwg,--"The
Little Nightingale of Glamorgan." Her renderings of some simple Welsh melodies were delicious;
they as far excelled the outpourings of the other singers as the compositions of Mendelssohn
or Bellini surpass a midnight feline concert. I have heard Chinese singing, and have come to
the conclusion, that, next to it, Welsh prize-vocalism is the most ear-distracting thing imaginable.

So it went on; Welsh, Welsh, Welsh, nothing but Welsh, until I was heartily sick of it. Then,
the singing part of the performance being concluded, the bardic portion of the business commenced.
It was conducted in this manner:--

The names of several subjects were written on separate slips of paper, and these being placed
in a box, each bard took one folded up and with but brief preparation was expected to extemporize
a poem on the theme he had drawn. The contest speedily commenced, and to me this part of the
proceedings was far and away the most entertaining. Of course, being, as I said, ignorant of
the language, I could not understand the matter of the improvisations; but as for the manner,
just imagine a mad North American Indian, a howling and dancing Dervise, an excited Shaker,
a violent case of fever-and-ague, a New York auctioneer, and a pugilist of the Tom Hyer school,
all fused together, and you may form some faint idea of a Welsh bard in the agony of inspiration.
Such roaring, such eye-rolling, such thumping of fists and stamping of feet, such joint-dislocating
action of the arms, such gyrations of the head, such spasmodic jerkings--out of the language
of the ancient Britons, I never heard before, and fervently pray that I never may again. And,
let it be remembered, the grotesque costume of the bard wonderfully heightened the effect.
His long beard, made of tow, became matted with the saliva which ran down upon it from the
corners of his mouth; his make-believe bald scalp was accidentally wiped to one side, as he
mopped away the perspiration from his forehead with a red cotton handkerchief; and a nail in
the gallery front catching his ancient robe, in a moment of frenzy, a fearful rending sound
indicated a solution of continuity, and exposed a modern blue unbardic pair of breeches with
bright brass buttons beneath,--an incident in keeping with the sham nature of all the proceedings.
For a mortal half hour this exhibition lasted, and when the impassioned speaker sat down, panting
and perspiring, the multitude stamped, clapped, and hallooed, and went into such paroxysms
of frenzy, that Bedlam broke loose could alone be compared with it.

During the three days the Festival lasted, such scenes as I have described were repeated,--the
only changes being in the persons of the singers and spouters. Glad enough was I when all was
over, and my occupation as reporter gone, for that time at least. With the aid of a Welsh friend
I managed to make a highly florid report of the proceedings, which occupied no less than eight
columns of the "M---- Beacon." As several of the speakers were only too glad to give me, sub
rosâ, copies of their speeches in their native language, and as none knew of the fact but ourselves,
I gained no little reputation as an accomplished Welsh scholar. The result of this was, that
presents of Welsh Bibles, hymn-books, histories, topographies, and the like, by the score,
were forwarded to me,--some out of respect for my talents as a great Welsh linguist, others
for review in the newspaper. I was neither born to such greatness, nor did I ever achieve it;
it was literally thrust on me; so also were sundry joints of the delicious Liliputian Welsh
mutton, which latter I am not ashamed to say I thoroughly understood, appreciated, and digested.
The ancient litter-ature, I am sorry to confess, I sold as waste paper, at so much per pound;
but to show that some lingering regard for at least two of Cambria's institutions yet reigns
in this ---- bosom, I am just about to begin upon a Welsh rabbit, and wash it down with a pitcher
of cwrw dach.

CORNUCOPIA.

  There's a lodger lives on the first floor,
    (My lodgings are up in the garret,)
  At night and at morn he taketh a horn
    And calleth his neighbors to share it,--
  A horn so long, and a horn so strong,
    I wonder how they can bear it.

  I don't mean to say that he drinks,
    For that were a joke or a scandal;
  But, every one knows it, he night and day blows it;--
    I wish he'd blow out like a candle!
  His horn is so long, and he blows it so strong,
    He would make Handel fly off the handle.

  By taking a horn I don't hint
    That he swigs either rum, gin, or whiskey;
  It's we who drink in his din worse than gin,
    His strains that attempt to be frisky,
  But are grievously sad.--A donkey, I add,
    Is as musical, braying in his key.

  It's a puzzle to know what he's at;
    I could pity him, if it were madness:
  I never yet knew him to play a tune through,
    And it gives me more anger than sadness
  To hear his horn stutter and stammer to utter
    Its various abortions of badness.

  At his wide open window he stands,
    Overlooking his bit of a garden;
  One can see the great ass at one end of his brass
    Blaring out, never asking your pardon:
  This terrible blurting he thinks is not hurting,
    As long as his own ear-drums harden.

  He thinks, I've no doubt, it is sweet,
    While thus Time and Tune he is flaying;
  The little house-sparrows feel all through their marrows
    The jar and the fuss of his playing,--
  The windows all shaking, the babies all waking,
    The very dogs howling and baying.

  One note out of twenty he hits,
    And, cheered, blows pianos like fortes.
  His time is his own. He goes sounding alone,
    (A sort of Columbus or Cortés,)
  On a perilous ocean, without any notion
    Whereabouts in the dim deep his port is.

  Like a man late from club, he has lost
    His key, and around stumbles moping,
  Touching this, trying that, now a sharp, now a flat,
    Till he strikes on the note he is hoping,
  And a terrible blare at the end of the air
    Shows he's got through at last with his groping.

  There,--he's finished,--at least, for a while;
    He is tired, or come to his senses;
  And out of his horn shakes the drops that were borne
    By the winds of his musical frenzies.
  There's a rest, thank our stars, of ninety-nine bars,
    Ere the tempest of sound recommences.

  When all the bad players are sent
    Where all their false notes are protested,
  I am sure that Old Nick will play him a trick,
    When his bad trump and he are arrested,
  And down in the regions of Discord's own legions
    His head with two French horns be crested.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY JOURNAL TO MY COUSIN MARY.

March, 1855.

Of all the letters of condolence I have received since my misfortune, yours has consoled me
most. It surprises me, I confess, that a far-away cousin--of whom I only remember that she
had the sweetest of earthly smiles--should know better how to reach the heart of my grief and
soothe it into peace, than any nearest of kin or oldest of friends. But so it has been, and
therefore I feel that your more intimate acquaintance would be something to interest me and
keep my heart above despair.

My sister Catalina, my devoted nurse, says I must snatch at anything likely to do that, as
a drowning man catches at straws, or I shall be overwhelmed by this calamity. But is it not
too late? Am I not overwhelmed? I feel that life is a revolting subject of contemplation in
my circumstances, a poor thing to look forward to. Death itself looks pleasanter.

Call up to your mind what I was, and what my circumstances were. I was healthy and strong.
I could run, and wrestle, and breast strong winds, and cleave rough waters, and climb steep
hills,--things I shall henceforth be able only to remember,--yes, and to sigh to do again.

I was thoroughly educated for my profession. I was panting to fulfil its duties and rise to
its honors. I was beginning to make my way up. I had gained one cause,--my first and last,--and
my friends thought me justified in entertaining the highest hopes.

It had always been an object of ambition with me to--well, I will confess--to be popular in
society; and I know I was not the reverse.--So much, Mary, for what I was. Now see what I am.

I am, and shall forever be,--so the doctors tell me,--a miserable, sickly, helpless being,
without hope of health or independence. My object in life can only be--to be comfortable, if
possible, and not to be an intolerable trial to those about me! Worth living for,--isn't it?

An athlete, eager and glowing in the race of life, transformed by a thunder-bolt into a palsied
and whining cripple for whom there is no Pool of Bethesda,--that is what has befallen me!

I suppose you read the shocking details of the collision in the papers. Catalina and I sat,
of course, side by side in the cars. We had that day met in New York, after a separation of
years. She had just returned from Europe. I went to meet and escort her home, and, as we whirled
over the Jersey sands, I told her of all my plans and hopes. She listened at first with her
usual lively interest; but as I went on, she looked me full in the face with an air of exasperated
endurance, as if what I proposed to accomplish were beyond reason. I own that I was in a fool's
paradise of buoyant expectation. At last she interrupted me.

"Ah, yes! No doubt! You'll do those trifles, of course! And, perhaps, among your other plans
and intentions is that of living forever? It is an easy thing to resolve upon;--better not
stop short of it."

At this instant came the crash, and I knew nothing more until I heard people remonstrating
with Kate for persisting in trying to revive a dead man, (myself,) while the blood was flowing
profusely from her own wound. I heard her indignantly deny that I was dead, and, with her customary
irritability, tell them that they ought to be ashamed of themselves for saying so. They still
insisted that I was "a perfect jelly," and could not possibly survive, even if I came to consciousness.
She contradicted them energetically. Yet they pardoned, and liked her. They knew that a fond
heart keenly resents evil prophecies of its beloved ones. Besides, whatever she does or says,
people always like Kate.

After a physician arrived, it was found that the jellying of my flesh was not the worst of
it; for, in consequence of some injury to my spine, my lower limbs were paralyzed. My sister,
thank Heaven, had received only a slight cut upon the forehead.

Of course I don't mean to bore you with a recital of all my sufferings through those winter
months. I don't ask your compassion for such trifles as bodily pain; but for what I am, and
must forever be in this life, my own heart aches for pity. Let yours sympathize with it.

I thought to be so active, so useful, perhaps so distinguished as a man, so blest as husband
and father!--for you must know how from my boyhood up I have craved, what I have never had, a home.

Now that I have been thrust out of active life and forced to make up my mind to perfect passiveness,
I have become a bugbear to myself. I cannot endure the thought of ever being the peevish egotist,
the exacting tyrant, which men are apt to become when they are thrown upon woman's love and
long-suffering, as I am.

My only safeguard is, I believe, to keep up interests out of myself, and I beg of you to help
me. I believe implicitly in your expressed desire to be of some service to me, and I ask you
to undertake the troublesome task of correspondence with a sick man, and almost a stranger.
I will, however, try to make you acquainted with myself and my surroundings, so thoroughly
that the latter difficulty will soon be obviated.

First, let me present my sister,--named Catalina,--called Kate, Catty, or Lina, according to
the fancy of the moment, or the degree of sentimentality in the speaker. You have not seen
her since she was a child, so that, of course, you cannot imagine her as she is now. But you
know the circumstances in which our parents left us. You remember, that, after living all his
life in careless luxury, my father died penniless. Our mother had secured her small fortune
for Kate; and at her death, just before my father's, she gave me--an infant a few weeks old--into
my sister's young arms, with full trust that I should be taken care of by her. You know of
all my obligations to her in my babyhood and for my education, which she drudged at teaching
for years to obtain for me. I could never repay her for such devotion, but I hoped to make
her forget all her trials, and only retain the happy consciousness of having had the making
of such a famous man! I expected to place her in affluence, at least.

And now what can I bring to her but grief and gray hairs? I am dependent upon her for my daily
bread; I occupy all her time, either in nursing or sewing for me; I try her temper hourly with
my sick-man's whims; and I doom her to a future of care and economy. Yet I believe in my soul
that she blesses me every time she looks upon me!

Thackeray says women like to be martyrized. I hardly think it is the pursuit of pleasure which
leads them to self-denial. Men, at any rate, do not often seek enjoyment in that form. If women
do make choice of such a class of delights, even instinctively, they need advance no other
claim to superiority over men. The higher the animal, the higher its propensities.

Kate the other day was asserting a wife's right to the control of her own property, and incidentally
advocating the equality of the sexes,--a touchy point with her. I put in,--

"Tell me, then, Lina, why animals form stronger attachments to men than to women. Your dog,
your parrot, even your cat, already prefers me to you. How can you account for it, unless by
allowing that there is more in us to respect and love?"

"I account for it," said she, with her most decided nod, "by affinity. There is more affinity
between you and brutes. It is the sons of God who find the daughters of men fair. We draw angels
from the skies;--even your jealous, reluctant sex has borne witness to that."

"Pshaw! only those anomalous creatures, the poets. But please yourself with such fancies; they
encourage a pretty pride that becomes your sex. Conscious forever of being your lords, we feel
that the higher you raise yourselves, the higher you place us. You can't help owning that angelic
woman-kind submits--and gladly--to us."

"Nonsense! conceited nonsense!"

"But don't they?"

"Some do; but I do not."

"Why, all my life you have been to me a most devoted, obedient servant, Kate."

"Yes, I have my pets," she answered, "and I care for them. I am housemaid to my bird; my cat
makes her bed of my lap and my best silk dress; I am purveyor to my dog, head-scratcher to
my parrot, and so forth. It is my pleasure to be kind. Higher natures always are so,--yes,
Charlie, even minutely solicitous for the welfare of the objects of their care; for are not
the very hairs of our head all numbered by the Most Beneficent?"

She began in playful insolence, but ended with tearful eyes, and a grateful, humble glow upon
her face. Its like I had never seen before in her rather imperious countenance. I gazed at
her with interest. She saw me, and was irritated to be caught with moistened eyes. She scorns
crying, like a man.

"Come, come!" said she, childishly and snappishly, "what are you looking at?"

Of course you cannot have any idea of her personal appearance from memory, and I will try to
give you one by description.

Though over thirty, she is generally considered very handsome, and is in the very prime of
her beauty; for it is not of the fragile, delicate order. She has jet-black, very abundant
hair, hazel eyes, and a complexion that is very fair, without being blonde. A bright, healthy
color in cheek and lip makes her look as fresh as a rose. Her nose is the doubtful feature.
It is--hum!--Roman, and some fastidious folks think a trifle too large. But I think it suits
well her keen eyes and slightly haughty mouth. She has fine hands, a tall figure, and an independent
"grand action," that is not wanting in grace, but is more significant of prompt energy.

The study of woman is a new one to me. I often see Kate's friends and gossips,--for I occupy
the parlor as sick-room,--and I lie philosophizing upon them by the hour, puzzling myself to
solve the problem of their idiosyncrasies. Lady Mary Wortley Montague said, that, in all her
travels, she had met with but two kinds of people,--men and women. I begin to think that one
sex will never be thoroughly comprehended by the other, notwithstanding the desperate efforts
the novelists are making now-a-days. They all go upon the same plan. They take some favorite
woman, watch her habits keenly, dissect her, analyze her very blood and marrow,--then patch
her up again, and set her in motion by galvanism. She stalks through three volumes and--drops
dead. I have seen Kate laugh herself almost into convulsions over the knowing remarks upon
the sex in Thackeray, Reade, and others. And I must confess that the women I know resemble
those of no writer but Shakspeare.

We take our revenge for this irritating incapacity by saying that neither can women create
ideal men at all resembling reality. But halte là! Was it not said at first that Rochester
must be a man's man? Is not the little Professor Paul Emanuel an actual masculine creature?
Heathcliff was a fiend,--but a male fiend.

But where am I wandering? To come back to my sister. She is a fair specimen of the quick, impulsive,
frank class of women. She says she belongs to the genus irritabile. She is easily excited to
every good emotion, and also to the nobler failings of anger, indignation, and pride. But she
is so far above any meanness or littleness, that she don't know them when she sees them. They
pass with her for what they are not, and she is spared the humiliation of knowing what her
species is capable of. Kate's nature is very charming, but there is a gentler, calmer order
of beings in the sex. I once was greatly attracted by one of them; and you, I think, belong
to that order. However, I should not class you with her,--for Kate says she was a "deceitful
thing." She may have been so, for aught I know; but I hold it as my creed, that there are some
women all softness, all gentleness, all purity, all loveableness, and yet all strength of principle.
Kate says, if there are men all courage, all chivalry, all ardor, and all virtue, I may be right.

The Germans say, "Give the Devil a hair, and he will get your whole head." Luckily it is the
same with the good angels. I have seen a hundred examples to prove it true. I will give the
one nearest my heart.

Lina's generous aspiration at the birth of her baby brother was the hair. Since then, the angel
of generosity has drawn her on from one self-denying deed to another, until he has possessed
her utterly. Her self-sacrifice was completed some weeks ago. I will tell you how,--for her
light shall not be hidden under a bushel.

When I arrived at this, her little cottage home, after the accident, it was found impossible
to get me up stairs. So I have since occupied the parlor as my sick-room,--having converted
a large airy china-closet into a recess for a bed, and banished the dishes to the kitchen dresser.
During the day I occupy a soft hair-cloth-covered couch, and from it I can command, not a view,
but a hearing, of the two porches, the hall, and the garden.

The day after my return was a soft, warm day; and though it was in February, the windows were
all open. I heard a light carriage drive up to the front door, and supposing it to be the doctor,
I awaited his entrance with impatience. After some time I discovered that he was with Kate
in the garden, and I could hear their voices. I listened with all my ears, that I might steal
his true opinion of myself; for I concluded that Kate was having a private consultation, and
arranging plans by which I was to be bolstered up with prepared accounts, and not told the
plain facts of the case. I had before suspected that they did not tell me the worst. I could
just catch my name now and then, but no more; and I wished heartily that they were a little
nearer the windows. They must be, I thought, quite at the bottom of the garden. Suddenly I
perceived that the voice addressing my sister was one of impassioned persuasion, and I heard
the words, "Be calm and reasonable,"--"Not forever." Then Kate said, with a burst of sobs,
"Only in heaven."

"It is all over with me, then," I thought, aghast. But having settled it, after a struggle,
to be the best thing both for me and Kate, I began to listen again. They were quite silent
for some moments. Then I heard sounds which surprised me,--low, loving tones,--and I desperately
wrenched myself upon my elbows to look out. The agony of such effort was more tolerable than
the agony of suspense. They were not far off, as I supposed, but close under the window, standing
in the little box-tree arbor, screened from all eyes but mine; and no doubt Kate believed herself
safe enough from these, as I had never been capable of such exertion since the accident. Their
low tones had deceived me as to their distance.

I was mistaken in another respect. It was not the doctor with Kate, but a fine-looking man,
whose emotion declared him her lover. His arm held her, and hers rested upon his shoulder,
as she looked up at him and spoke earnestly. His face expressed the greatest alarm and grief.
I do not know where she found the resolution, while looking upon it, to do what she did; for,
Mary,--I can hardly bear to write it,--I heard her forever renounce her love and happiness
for my sake.

I might then have cried out against this self-sacrifice; but there is something sacred in such
an interview, and I could not thrust myself upon it. I wish now that I had done so. But then
I listened in silence--grief-struck--to the rejection of him she loved,--to the farewells.
I saw the long-clasped hands severed with an effort and a shudder; I saw my proud sister offer
and give a kiss far more fervent than that which she received in return;--for she felt that
this was a final parting, and her heart was full of love and sorrow; while in his there lingered
both hope and anger,--hope that I would recover, and release her,--resentment because she could
sacrifice him to me.

And yet, after the parting, Kate had but just turned from him, when a change came over his
countenance, at first of enthusiastic admiration, then of a yet more burning pain. He walked
quickly after her, caught her in his arms, and dashing away tears, that they might not fall
upon her face, he kissed her passionately, and said, "It is hard that I must say it, but you
are right, Lina! Oh, my God! must I lose such a woman?"

Kate, trembling, panting, stamped her foot and cried, "Go, go!--I cannot stand it!--go!" Ah,
Mary! that poor, pale face! He went. Kate made one quick, terrified, instantly restrained motion
of recall, which he did not see; but I did, and I fainted with the pang it gave me.

When I recovered consciousness, I found my sister bending over me, blaming herself for neglecting
me for so long a time, and calling herself a cruel, faithless nurse, with acute self-reproach!--There's
woman for you!

I told her what I had overheard, and protested against what she had done. She said I must not
talk now,--I was too ill; she would listen to me to-morrow. The next day I broached the subject
again, as she sat by my side, reading the evening paper. She put her finger on a paragraph
and handed it to me. I read that one of the steamships had sailed at twelve o'clock that day.
"He is in it," Kate said, and left the room.--He is in Europe by this time.

Helpless wretch that I am!

Are not Kate's whole head and heart, and all, under the dominion of Heaven's best angels?

II.

March, 1855.

And now, dear Mary, I intend to let you into our household affairs. This illness has brought
me one blessing,--a home. It has plunged me into the bosom of domestic life, and I find things
there exceedingly amusing. Things commonplace to others are very novel and interesting to me,
from my long residence in hotels, and perfect ignorance of how the pot was kept boiling from
which my dinners came.

But before you enter the house, take a look at the outside, and let me localize myself in your
imagination. Bosky Dell is a compact little place of ten acres, covered mostly with a dense
grove, and cut into two unequal parts by a brawling, rocky stream. The house--a little cottage,
draped with vines, and porched--sits on a slope, with an orchard on one side, a tiny lawn bordered
with flowers on another, the shade of the grove darkening the windows of a third, and on the
fourth a kitchen-garden with strawberry-beds and grape-trellises. It is a pretty little place,
and full of cosy corners. My favorite one I must describe.

It is a porch on the south side of the house, between two projections. Consequently both ends
of it are closed; one, by the parlor wall, in which there is a window,--and the other, by the
kitchen window and wall. It is quite shut in from winds, and the sun beams pleasantly upon
it, these chilly March days. There is just room enough for my couch, Kate's rocking-chair,
and a little table. Here we sit all the morning,--Kate sewing, I reading, or watching the sailing
clouds, the swelling tree-buds in the grove, and the crocus-sprinkled grass, which is growing
greener every day.

Thus, while busy with me, Kate can still have an eye to her kitchen, and we both enjoy the
queer doings and sayings of our "culled help," Saide. She became Kate's servant under an inducement
which I will give in her own words.

"Massy! Miss Catline, when I does a pusson a good turn, seems like I wants to keep on doin'
'em good turns. I didn't do so dreffle much for you, but I jes got one chance to help you a
bit, and seems like I couldn't be satisfactioned to let you alone no more."--A novel reason
to hear given, but a true one in philosophy.

This "chance" was when my sister was attacked with cholera once, in the first panic caused
by it, of late years. All her friends had fled to the country, and she was quite alone in a
boarding-house. I was at college. She would have been left to die alone, so great was the fear
of the disease, if Saide, who was cook in the establishment, had not boiled over with indignation,
and addressed her selfish mistress in this fashion:--

"That ar' young lady's not to have no care, nohow, took of her, a'n't she? She's to be lef'
there a-sufferin' all alone that-a-way, is she? I guess so too! Hnh! Now I'se gwine to nuss
her, and I don't keer if you don't know nothin' about culining, you must get yer own dinnas
and breakwusses and suppas. That's the plain English of it,--leastways till she's well ag'in."

She devoted herself night and day to Kate for several weeks, and then accompanied her to this
house, as a matter of course. She is a privileged personage. She often pops her head out of
the kitchen window to favor us with her remarks. As they always make us laugh, she won't take
reproofs upon that subject. Kate says her impertinence is intolerable, but suffers it rather
than resort to severity with her old benefactress. I enjoy it.

She manages to turn her humor to account in various ways. I heard her exclaim,--

"Laws-a-me! Dere goes de best French-chayny gold-edged tureen all to smash! Pieces not big
enough to save! Laws now, do let me study how to tell de folks, so's to set 'em larfin'. Dere's
great 'casion to find suthin' as 'll do it, 'cause dey thinks a heap o' dis yere ole chayny.
Mr. Charley now,--he's easy set off; but Miss Catline,--she takes suthin' purty 'cute! Laws,
I has to fly roun' to git dat studied out!"

Kate overheard this;--how could she scold?

Saide can never think unless she is "flyin' roun'"; and whenever there is a great tumult in
the kitchen, pans kicked about, tongs falling, dishes rattling, and table shoved over the floor,
something pretty good, in the shape either of a bonne-bouche or a bon-mot, is sure to turn up.

This morning there was a furious hubbub, that threatened to drown my voice. Saide was evidently
"flyin' roun'," and Kate, who could not hear half that I read, got out of patience.

"What is the matter?" she asked, raising the sash of the window.

"I on'y wants the currender, (colander,) Miss Catline,--dat's all, Miss."

"Well, does it take a whirlwind to produce it?"

"Oh, laws, Miss Catline! Don't be dat funny now, don't!--yegh! yegh!--I'se find it presentry.
I'se on'y a little frustrated, (flustered,) Miss, with de 'fusion, and I'se jes a-studyin'.
Never mind me, Miss,--dat's all, indeed it is,--and you'll have a fuss-rate minch-pie for dinner.
I guess so, too!--yegh! yegh!"--And so we had.

Kate's domestics stand in much awe of her, but feel at least equal love. So that hers is a
household kept in good order, with very little of the vexation, annoyance, and care, I hear
so many of her married friends groaning about.

April.

For a month nearly, Kate has forbidden my writing, and the first part of this letter was not
sent; so I will finish it now. My sister thought the effort of holding a pen, in my recumbent
position, was too wearying to me; but now I am stronger, and can sit up supported by pillows.
I hasten to tell you of another most important addition to my comfort, which has been made
since I wrote last. I am so eager with the news, that I can hardly hold a steady pen. Isn't
this a fine state for a promising young lawyer to be reduced to? He is wild with excitement,
because some one has given him a new go-cart!

Ben, the gardener, was that indulgent individual. He made for me, with his own industrious
hands, what he calls a "jaunting-car-r-r-r." It is a large wheeled couch on springs. I am a
house-prisoner no longer!

I think the first ride I took in it was the most exciting event of my life. I was not exactly
conscious of being mortally tired of looking from the same porch, over the same garden, into
the same grove, and up to the same quarter of the heavens, for so many months; but when the
change came unexpectedly, it was transporting happiness.

I suppose it may be so when we enter a future life. While here, we think we do not want to
go elsewhere,--even to a better land; but when we reach that shore, we shall probably acknowledge
it to be a lucky change.

Ben drew me carefully down the garden-path. I inhaled the breath of the tulips and hyacinths,
as we passed them. I longed to stay there in that fairy land, for they brought back all the
unspeakably rapturous feelings of my boyhood. Strange that such delight, after we become men,
never visits us except in moments brief as lightning-flashes,--and then generally only as a
memory,--not, as when we were children, in the form of a hope! When we are boys, and sudden
joy stirs our hearts, we say, "Oh, how grand life will be!" When we are men, and are thus moved,
it is, "Ah, how bright life was!"

Ben did not pause in the hyacinth-bed with me. He was anxious to prove the excellence of his
vehicle; so he dragged me on in it, until we had nearly reached the boundary of our grounds,
where the two tall, ragged old cedar-trees marked the extreme point of the evergreen shrubbery,
and the view of the neighborhood lies before us. He stopped there and said,--

"Ye'll mappen like to look abroad a bit, and I'se go on to the post-office. Miss Kathleen bid
me put you here fornenst the landskip, and then leave ye. She was greatly fashed at the coompany
cooming just then. I must go, Sir."

"All right, Ben. You need not hurry."

The fresh morning wind whisked up to me and kissed my face bewitchingly, as Ben removed his
tall, burly form from the narrow opening between the two trees, and left me alone there in
the shade, with nothing between me and the view.

That moment revealed to me the joy of all liberated prisoners. My eyes flew over the wide earth
and the broad heavens. After a sweeping view of both in their vast unity, I began to single
out particulars. There lay the village in the lap of the hills, in summer time "bosomed high
in tufted trees," but now only half veiled by the gauze-like green of the budding foliage.
The apple orchards, still white with blossoms, and green with wheat or early grass, extended
up the hills, and encroached upon the dense brown forests. There was the little red brick turret
which crowned the village church, and my eye rested lovingly upon it. Not that it was anything
to me; but Kate and all the women I respect love it, or what it stands for, and through them
I hope to experience that warm love of worship, and of the places dedicated to it, which seems
native to them, and much to be desired for us. I have cared little for such things hitherto.
Their beauty and happiness are just beginning to dawn upon me.

          ----"Dear Jesus, can it be?
  Wait we till all things go from us or e'er we go to thee?
  Ay, sooth! We feel such strength in weal, thy love may seem
       withstood:
  But what are we in agony? Dumb, if we cry not 'God!'"

Behind the village I can see the blue hazy line of a far-distant horizon, as the valley opens
in that direction. I know the sea lies there, and sometimes I fancy that mirage lifts its dark
waters to my sight.

In a wooded nook on my right stands the little brown mill, with its huge wheel, and wide blue
pond, and foamy waterfall. On that day I heard its drone, and saw the geese bathing, and throwing
up the bright sparkling drops with their wings, until they fell like fountains.

On my left lay "a little lane serene," with stone fences half hid by blackberry-bushes--

      ----"A little lane serene,
  Smooth-heaped from wall to wall with unbroken snows.
  Or in the summer blithe with lamb-cropped green,
  Save the one track, where naught more rude is seen
    Than the plump wain at even
  Bringing home four months' sunshine bound in sheaves."

I thought of those lines there and then, and they enhanced even the joy of Nature. They tinged
her for me with the magic colors of poetry.

When I had thus scrutinized earth, I looked up to heaven. It had been so long shut from me
by the network of the grove, that it was like escaping from confining toils, to look straight
into Heaven's face, with nothing between, not even a cloud.

I have never seen a sweeter, calmer picture than that I gazed upon all the morning, and for
which the two huge old cedars formed a rugged, but harmonious frame.

I have lived out of doors since. When it is cold, I am wrapped in a wadded robe Kate has made
for me,--a capital thing, loose, and warm, and silky-soft. To an invalid with nerves all on
edge, that is much. I never found out, until Kate enveloped me in its luxurious folds, what
it was that rasped my feelings so, every morning, when I was dressed; I then knew it must have
been my flashy woollen dressing-gown. I envy women their soft raiment, and I rather dread the
day when I shall be compelled to wear coats again. (Let me cheat myself, if I can.)

III.

May, 1855.

You wish to know more of Ben. I am glad of it. You shall be immediately gratified.

He is a true Scot, tall and strong and sandy-haired, with quick gray eyes, and a grave countenance,
which relaxes only upon very great provocation.

Before I came here, he was known simply as a most careful, industrious, silent, saving machine,
which cared not a jot for anybody in particular, but never wanted any spur to its own mechanical
duty. It was never known to do a turn of work not legitimately its own, though mathematically
exact in its proper office. But after I came here with my sister, a helpless cripple, we found
out that the mathematical machine was a man, with a soft, beating heart. He was called upon
to lift me from the carriage, and he did it as tenderly as a woman. He took me up as a mother
lifts her child from the cradle, and I reposed passively in his strong arms, with a feeling
of perfect security and ease.

From that day to this, Ben has been a most devoted friend to me. He watches for opportunities
to do me kindnesses, and takes from his own sacred time to make me comforts. He has had me
in his arms a hundred times, and carries me from bed to couch like a baby. I positively blush
in writing this to you. You have known me to be a man for years, and here I am in arms again!

Ben's decent, well-controlled self-satisfaction, which almost amounts to dignity, is gone like
a puff of smoke, at the word "Shanghai." Poor fellow! He once had the hen-fever badly, and
he don't like to recall his sufferings.

The first I knew of it was by his starting and changing color one day, when I was reading the
news from China to Kate in the garden, he being engaged in tying up a rose-bush close by. Kate
saw his confusion, and smiled. Ben, catching the expression of her face, looked inconceivably
sheepish. He dropped his ball of twine, and was about to go away, but thinking better of it,
he suddenly turned and said, with a grin and a blush,--

"Ye'll be telling on me, Miss Kathleen! so I'se be aforehond wi' ye, and let Mr. Charlie knaw
the warst frae my ain confassion, if he will na grudge me a quarter hour."

I signified my wish to hear, and with much difficulty and many questions wrung from him his
"confassion." Kate afterwards gave me her version, and the facts were these:--

He persuaded Kate to let him buy a pair of Shanghais.

"But don't do it unless you are sure of its being worth while," Kate charged him; "because
I can't afford to be making expensive experiments."

Ben counted out upon his fingers the numberless advantages.

"First, the valie o' the eggs for sale, (mony ane had fetched a dollar,) forbye the ecawnomy
in size for cooking, one shell handing the meat o' twa common eggs. Second, the size o' the
chickens for table, each hen the weight o' a turkey. Third, for speculation. Let the neebors
buy, and she could realize sixty dollar on the brood o' twal' chicks; for they fetched ten
dollar the pair, and could be had for nae less onywheres. Every hen wad hae twa broods at the
smallest."

Kate doubted, but handed over the money. The next day she was awaked from a nap on the parlor
sofa by a most unearthly music. There was one bar of four notes, first and third accepted;
bar second, a crescendo on a long swelled note, then a decrescendo equally long.

"Why," she cried, "is that our little bull-calf practising singing? I shall let Barnum know
about him. He'll make my fortune!"

Ben knocked at the door, presented a radiant grin, and invited inspection of his Shanghais.
Kate went with him to the cellar. There stood two feathered bipeds on their tip-toes, with
their giraffe necks stretched up to my sister's swinging shelf where the cream and butter were
kept. It spoke well for the size of their craws certainly, that, during the two minutes Ben
was away, they had each devoured a "print" of butter, about half a pound!

"Saw ye ever the like o' thae birds, Miss Kathleen?" began Ben, proudly.

"My butter, my butter!" cried Kate.

Ben ran to the rescue, and having removed everything to the high shelf, he came back, saying,--

"It was na their faut. I tak shame for not minding that they are so gay tall. But did ye ever
see the like o' yon rooster?"

Indeed, she never had! The frightful monster, with its bob-tail and boa-constrictor neck! But
she said nothing.

Ben named them the Emperor and Empress. They were not to be allowed to walk with common fowls,
and he soon had a large, airy house made for them. He watched these creatures with incessant
devotion, and one morning he was beside himself with delight, for, by a most hideous roaring
on the part of the Emperor, and a vigorous cackling, which Ben, very descriptively, called
"scraughing," by the Empress, it was announced that she had laid an egg!

Etiquette required Kate to call and admire this promise of royal offspring, and she was surprised
into genuine admiration when she saw the prodigy. Her nose had to lower its scornful turn,
her lips to relax their skeptical twist. It was an egg indeed! Ben was nobly justified in his
purchase. His step was light that day. Kate heard him singing, over and over again, a verse
from an old song which he had brought with him from the land o' cakes:--

  "I hae a hen wi' a happity leg,
  (Lass, gin ye loe me, tell me noo,)
  And ilka day she lays me an egg
  (And I canna come ilka day to woo!)"

Wooing any lass would, just now, have been quite as secondary an affair with the singer as
in the song,--a something par parenthèse.

But, alas! Ben's face was more dubious the next day, and before the week was over it was yard-long.
The Empress, after that one great effort, laid no more eggs, but duly began her second duty,
sitting. There was no doubt that she meant to have but one chick,--out of rivalry, perhaps,
with the Pynchon hen. It was gratifying, perhaps, to have her so aristocratic, but it was not
exactly profitable as a speculation.

"Ben," said Kate, dryly, "I don't know that that egg was wonderfully large, as it contained
the whole brood!"

Poor Ben! That was not all. The clumsy, heavy Empress stepped upon her egg, and broke it in
the second week of its existence; but, faithful to its memory, she refused to forego the duties
of maternity, and would persist in staying on her nest. As the season advanced, Ben lost hope
of the second brood he had counted upon. In short, his Empress had the legitimate "hen-fever,"
and it carried her off, though Ben tried numberless remedies in common use for vulgar fowls,
such as pumping upon her, whirling her by one leg, tying red flannel to her tail, and so forth.
Of course such indignities were fatal to royalty, and Ben gave up all hopes of a pure race
of Shanghais.

The Emperor was then set at liberty, and for one short half-hour strutted like a giant-hero
among the astounded hens. But no sooner did the former old cock--who had game blood in him,
repute said--return from a distant excursion into the cornfields with his especial favorites
about him, and behold the mighty majesty of the monster, than his pride and ire blazed up.
He put his head low, ruffled out his long neck-feathers, his eyes winked and snapped fire with
rage, he set out his wings, took a short run, and, throwing up his spurs with fury, struck
the stupid, staring Emperor a blow under the ear which laid him low. Alas for royalty, opposed
to force of will!

"And you had to pocket the loss, Kate?" I said.

"It was my gain," she replied. "Ben had always been dictatorial before; but after that, I had
only to smile to remind him of his fallibility, and I have been mistress here ever since."

So far had I written when your welcome letter arrived. Kate found me this morning sighing over
it, pen in hand, ready to reply. She put on her imperious look, and said she forbade my writing,
if I grew gloomy over it. She feared my letters were only the outpourings of a disappointed
spirit. Indulgence in grief she considered weak, foolish, unprincipled, and egotistical.

"I can't help being egotistical," I replied, "when I see no one, and am shut up in the 'little
world of me,' as closely as mouse in trap. And with myself for a subject, what can my letters
be but melancholy?"

"Anybody can write amusing letters, if they choose," said Kate, reckless both of fact and grammar.

"Unless I make fun of you, what else have I to laugh at?"

"Well, do! Make fun of me to your heart's content! Who cares?"

"You promise to laugh with us, and not be offended?"

"I promise not to be offended. My laughing depends upon your wit."

"There is no mirth left in me, Kate. I am convinced that I ought to say with Jacques, ''Tis
good to be sad, and say nothing.'"

"Then I shall answer as Rosalind did,--'Why, then, 'tis good to be a post!' No, no, Charlie,
do be merry. Or if you cannot, just now, at least encourage 'a most humorous sadness,' and
that will he the first step to real mirth."

"I shall never be merry again, Lina, till you let me recall Mr. ----. That care weighs me down,
and I truly believe retards my recovery."

"Hush, Charlie!" she said, imperiously.

"Now, dear Kate, do not be obstinate. My position is too cruel. With the alleviation of knowing
your happiness secure, I could bear my lot. But now it is intolerable, utterly!"

She was silent.

"You must give me that consolation."

"To say I would ever leave you, Charlie, while you are so helpless, would be to tell a lie,
for I could not do it. Mr. ---- is a civil engineer. He is always travelling about. I should
have no settled home to take you to. How can you suppose I would abandon you? Do you think
I could find any happiness after doing it? Let us be silent about this."

"I will not, Kate. I am sure, that, besides being a selfish, it would be a foolish thing to
submit to you in this matter. I shall linger, perhaps, until your youth is gone, and then have
the pang, far worse than any other I could suffer, of leaving you quite alone in the world.
Do listen to reason!"

She sat thinking. At last she said, "Well, wait one year."

"That would be nonsensical procrastination. Does not the doctor declare that a year will not
better my condition?"

"But he cannot be sure. And I promise you, Charlie, that, if Mr. ---- asks me then, I will
think about it,--and if you are better, go with him. More I will not promise."

"A year from last February, you mean?"--A pause.

"Encroacher! Yes, then."

"And you will write to him to say so?"

"Indeed! That would be pretty behavior!"

"But as you rejected him decidedly, he may form new"----She clapped her hand upon my mouth.

"Dare to say it!" she cried.

I removed her hand, and said, eagerly, "Now, Kate, do not trifle. I must have some certainty
that I am not wrecking your happiness. I cannot wait a year in suspense. I am a man. I have
not the patience of your incomprehensible sex."

"I have more than patience to support me, Charlie," she whispered. "He insisted upon refusing
to take a positive answer then, and said he should return again next spring, to see if I were
in the same mind. So be at ease!"

I sighed, unsatisfied.

"I am sure he will come," she said, turning quite away, that I might not dwell upon her warm blush.

"There is Ben with the horse. Are you ready?" she asked, glad to change the subject.

I was always ready for that I had enjoyed the "jaunting-car-r-r" so much, that my sister, resolved
to gratify me further, had made comfortable arrangements for longer excursions. I found that
I could sit up, if well supported by pillows; and so Kate had her "cabriolet" brought out and
repaired.

She had not the least idea of what a cabriolet might be, when she named her vehicle so; but
it sounded fine and foreign, and was a sort of witty contrast to the misshapen affair it represented.
It was indescribable in form, but had qualities which recommended it to me. It was low, wide-seated,
high-backed, broad, and long. The front wheels turned under, which was a lucky circumstance,
as Kate was to be driver. Ben could not be spared from his work, and I was out of the question.

We have a horse to match this unique affair, called "Old Soldier,"--an excellent name for him;
though, if Kate reads this remark, she will take mortal offence at it. She calls the venerable
fellow her charger, because he makes such bold charges at the steep hills,--the only occasions
upon which the cunning beast ever exerts himself in the least, well knowing that he will be
instantly reined in. Kate has a horror of going out of a walk, on either ascent or descent,
because "up-hill is such hard pulling, and down-hill so dangerous!"

Old Soldier can discern a grade of five feet to the mile of either. If I did not know his history,
(an old omnibus horse,) I should say he must have practised surveying for years. He accommodates
himself most obligingly to his mistress's whims, and walks carefully most of the time, except
when he is ambitious of great praise at little cost, when he makes the charges aforesaid.

"He is so considerate, usually!" Kate says; "he knows we don't like tearing up and down hills;
but now and then his spirit runs away with him!"--I wish it would some day with us. No hope of it!

We stop every two miles to water the horse, and though we are exceedingly moderate in our donations,
we are a fortune to the hostlers. I carry the purse, as Kate is quite occupied in holding the
reins, and keeping a sharp look-out that her charger don't run off. Not that he ever showed
a disposition that way,--being generally quite agreeable, if we wish him to stand ever so long
a time; but Kate says he is very nervous, and he might be startled, and then we might find
it impossible to stop him,--a thing easy enough hitherto.

I am obliged to keep the purse in my hand all the time, there being such frequent use for it.
Kate says,--

"Give the man a half-dime, Charlie, if you can find one. A three-cent piece looks mean, you
know; and a fip mounts up so, it is rather extravagant. That is the twelfth fip that man has
had this week, and for only holding up a bucket a half-minute at a time; for Soldier only takes
one swallow."

She will pay every time we stop, if it is six times a day.

"Shall I give the man a half-dollar at once," I ask, "and let that do for a week?"

"No, indeed! How mean I should feel, sneaking off without paying!"

When the roadside shows a patch of tender grass, Kate eyes it, and checks Soldier's pace. He
knows what that means, and edges toward the tempting herbage.

"Poor fellow!" his driver says,--"it is like our having to pass a plate of peaches. Let him
have a bite."

And so we wait while he grazes awhile. It is the same thing when we cross a brook, and Soldier
pauses in it to cool his feet and look at his reflection in the water.

"Perhaps he wants a drink. We won't hurry him. We will let him see that we can afford to wait."

If he had not come to that conclusion from the very start, he must have believed human beings
were miracles of patience and forbearance.

I could write a fine dissertation upon Kate's foolish fondness and her blind indulgence. I
could show that these are the great failings of her sex, and prove how very much more rational
my sex would be in like circumstances. But I find it too pleasant to be the recipient of such
favors myself just now, to find fault. Wait until I do not need woman's tenderness, and then
I'll abuse it famously. I will say then, that she is weak, foolish, imprudent; I will say,
she kills with kindness, spoils with indulgence, and all that; but just now I will say nothing.

In one thing I think her kindness very sensible,--she uses no check-rein. I think with Sir
Francis Head, that all horses are handsomer with their heads held as Nature pleases. I pity
the poor creatures when I see them turning to one side and the other, to find a little relief
in change of position. To restrain horses thus, who have heavy loads to pull, is the height
of folly, as a waste of power.

You take no interest in these remarks, perhaps; but treasure them. If ever, Cousin Mary, you
drive a dray, they will serve you.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THY PSYCHE.

  Like a strain of wondrous music rising up in cloister dim,
  Through my life's unwritten measures thou dost steal, a glorious
       hymn!
  All the joys of earth and heaven in the singing meet, and flow
  Richer, sweeter, for the wailing of an undertone of woe.
  How I linger, how I listen for each mellow note that falls,
  Clear as chime of angels floating downward o'er the jasper walls!

  Every night, when winds are moaning round my chamber by the sea,
  Thine's the face that through the darkness latest looks with love at
       me;
  And I dream, ere thou departest, thou dost press thy lips to mine;--
  Then I sleep as slept the Immortals after draughts of Hebe's wine!
  And I clasp thee, out of slumber when the rosy day is born,
  As the soul, with rapture waking, clasps the resurrection morn.

  'Twas thy soul-wife, 'twas thy Psyche, one uplifted, radiant day,
  Thou didst call me;--how divinely on thy brow Love's glory lay!
  Thou my Cupid,--not the boy-god whom the Thespians did adore,
  But the man, so large, so noble, truer god than Venus bore.
  I thy Psyche;--yet what blackness in this thread of gold is wove!
  Thou canst never, never lead me, proud, before the throne of Jove!
  All the gods might toil to help thee through the longest summer
       day;--
  Still would watch the fatal Sisters, spinning in the twilight gray;
  And their calm and silent faces, changeless looking through the
       gloom,
  From eternity, would answer, "Thou canst ne'er escape thy doom!"
  Couldst thou clasp me, couldst thou claim me, 'neath the soft
       Elysian skies,
  Then what music and what odor through their azure depths would rise!
  Roses all the Hours would scatter, every god would bring us joy,
  So, in perfect loving blended, bliss would never know alloy!

  O my heart! the vision changes; fades the soft celestial blue;
  Dies away the rapturous music, thrilling all my pulses through!
  Lone I sit within my chamber; storms are beating 'gainst the pane,
  And my tears are falling faster than the chill December rain;--
  Yet, though I am doomed to linger, joyless, on this earthly shore,
  Thou art Cupid!--I am Psyche!--we are wedded evermore!

DR. WICHERN AND HIS PUPILS.

"Would you like to spend a day at Horn and visit the Rauhe Haus?" inquired my friend, Herr
X., of me, one evening, as we sat on the bank of the Inner Alster, in the city of Hamburg.
I had already visited most of the "lions" in and about Hamburg, and had found in Herr X. a
most intelligent and obliging cicerone. So I said, "Yes," without hesitation, though knowing
little more of the Rauhe Haus than that it was a reform school of some kind.

"I will call for you in the morning," said my friend, as we parted for the night.

The morning was clear and bright, and I had hardly despatched my breakfast when Herr X. appeared
with his carriage. Entering it without delay, we were driven swiftly over the pavements, till
we came to the old city-wall, now forming a fine drive, when my friend, turning to the coachman,
said,--

"Go more slowly."

"The scenery in this vicinity we Hamburgers think very beautiful," he continued, turning to me.

To my eye, accustomed to our New England hills, it was much too flat to merit the appellation
of beautiful, though Art had done what it could to improve upon Nature; so I assented to his
encomiums upon the landscape, but, desirous of changing the subject, added,--

"This Rauhe Haus, where we are going, I know but little of; will you give me its history?"

"Most willingly," he replied. "You must know that our immense commerce, while it affords ample
occupation for the enterprising and industrious, draws hither also a large proportion of the
idle, depraved, and vicious. For many years, it was one of the most difficult questions with
which our Senate has had to grapple, to determine what should be done with the hordes of vagrant
children who swarmed about our quays, and were harbored in the filthy dens which before the
great fire of 1842 were so abundant in the narrow streets. These children were ready for crime
of every description, and in audacity and hardihood far surpassed older vagabonds.

"In 1830, Dr. Wichern, then a young man of twenty-two, having completed his theological studies
at Göttingen and Berlin, returned home, and began to devote himself to the religious instruction
of the poor. He established Sabbath-schools for these children, visited their parents at their
homes, and sought to bring them under better influences. He succeeded in collecting some three
or four hundred of them in his Sabbath-schools; but he soon became convinced that they must
be removed from the evil influences to which they were subjected, before any improvement could
be hoped for in their morals. In 1832, he proposed to a few friends, who had become interested
in his labors, the establishment of a House of Rescue for them. The suggestion met their approval;
but whence the means for founding such an institution were to come none of them knew; their
own resources were exceedingly limited, and they had no wealthy friends to assist them.

"About this time, a gentleman with whom he was but slightly acquainted brought him three hundred
dollars, desiring that it should be expended in aid of some new charitable institution. Soon
after, a legacy of $17,500 was left for founding a House of Rescue. Thus encouraged, Wichern
and his friends went forward. A cottage, roughly built and thatched with straw, with a few
acres of land, was for sale at Horn, about four miles from the city, and its situation pleasing
them, they appropriated their legacy to the purchase of it. Hither, in November, 1833, Dr.
Wichern removed with his mother, and took into his household, adopting them as his own children,
three of the worst boys he could find in Hamburg. In the course of a few months he had increased
the number to twelve, all selected from the most degraded children of the city.

"His plan was the result of careful and mature deliberation. He saw that these depraved and
vicious children had never been brought under the influence of a well-ordered family, and believing,
that, in the organization of the family, God had intended it as the best and most efficient
institution for training children in the ways of morality and purity, he proposed to follow
the Divine example. The children were employed, at first, in improving the grounds, which had
hitherto been left without much care; the banks of a little stream, which flowed past the cottage,
were planted with trees; a fish-pond into which it discharged its waters was transformed into
a pretty sylvan lake; and the barren and unproductive soil, by judicious cultivation, was brought
into a fertile condition.

"In 1834, the numerous applications he received, and the desire of extending the usefulness
of the institution, led him to erect another building for the accommodation of a second family
of boys. The work upon it was almost wholly performed by his first pupils. I should have remarked,
that, during the first year, a high fence, which surrounded the premises when they were purchased,
was removed by the boys, by Dr. Wichern's direction, as he desired to have love the only bond
by which to retain them in his family. When the new house was finished and dedicated, the original
family moved into it, and were placed under the charge of two young men from Switzerland, named
Baumgärtner and Byckmeyer.

"Workshops for the employment of the boys soon became necessary, and means were contributed
for their erection. New pupils were offered, either by their parents, or by the city authorities,
and new families were organized. These required more "house-fathers," as they were called,
and for their training a separate house was needed. Dr. Wichern has been very successful in
obtaining assistants of the right description. They are young men of good education, generally
versed in some mechanical employment, and whose zeal for philanthropic effort leads them to
place themselves under training here, for three or four years, without salary. They are greatly
in demand all over Germany for home missionaries and superintendents of prisons and reformatory
institutions. You have heard, I presume, of the Inner Mission?"

I assented, and he continued.

"These young men are its most active promoters. The philanthropy of Wichern was not satisfied,
until he had established also several families of vagrant girls at his Rough House.--But see,
we are approaching our destination. This is the Rauhe Haus."

As he spoke, our carriage stopped. We alighted, and rarely has my eye been greeted by a pleasanter
scene. The grounds, comprising about thirty-two acres, presented the appearance of a large
landscape-garden. The variety of choice forest-trees was very great, and mingled with them
were an abundance of fruit-trees, now laden with their golden treasures, and a profusion of
flowers of all hues. Two small lakes, whose borders were fringed with the willow, the weeping-elm,
and the alder, glittered in the sunlight,--their finny inhabitants occasionally leaping in
the air, in joyous sport. Fourteen buildings were scattered over the demesne,--one, by its
spire, seeming to be devoted to purposes of worship.

"Let us go to the Mutter-Haus," (Mother-House,) said my friend; "we shall probably find Dr.
Wichern there."

So saying, he led the way to a plain, neat building, situated nearly centrally, though in the
anterior portion of the grounds. This is Dr. Wichern's private residence, and here he receives
reports from the Brothers, as the assistants are called, and gives advice to the pupils. We
were ushered into the superintendent's office, and found him a fine, noble-looking man, with
a clear, mild eye, and an expression of great decision and energy. My friend introduced me,
and Dr. Wichern welcomed us both with great cordiality.

"Be seated for a moment, gentlemen," said he; "I am just finishing the proofs of our Fliegenle
Blätter," (Flying Leaves, a periodical published at the Rauhe Haus,) "and will presently show
you through our buildings."

We waited accordingly, interesting ourselves, meanwhile, with the portraits of benefactors
of the institution which decorated the walls.

In a few minutes Dr. Wichern rose, and merely saying, "I am at your service, gentlemen," led
the way to the original Rough House. It is situated in the southeastern corner of the grounds,
and is overshadowed by one of the noblest chestnut-trees I have ever seen. The building is
old and very humble in appearance, but of considerable size. In addition to accommodations
for the House-Father and his family of twelve boys, several of the Brothers of the Mission
reside here, and there are also rooms for a probationary department for new pupils.

"Here," said the Doctor, "we began the experiment whose results you see around you. When, with
my mother and sister and three of the worst boys to be found in Hamburg, I removed to this
house in 1833, there was need of strong faith to foresee the results which God has wrought
since that day."

"What were the means you found most successful in bringing these turbulent and intractable
spirits into subjection?" I inquired.

"Love, the affection of a parent for his children," was his reply. "These wild, hardened boys
were inaccessible to any emotion of fear; they had never been treated with kindness or tenderness;
and when they found that there was no opportunity for the exercise of the defiant spirit they
had summoned to their aid, when they were told that all the past of their lives was to be forgotten
and never brought up against them, and that here, away from temptation, they might enter upon
a new life, their sullen and intractable natures yielded, and they became almost immediately
docile and amiable."

"But," I asked, "is there not danger, that, when removed from these comfortable homes, and
subjected again to the iron gripe of poverty, they will resume their old habits?"

"None of us know," replied Dr. Wichern, solemnly, "what we may be left to do in the hour of
temptation; but the danger is, nevertheless, not so great as you think. Our children are fed
and clothed like other peasant children; they are not encouraged to hope for distinction, or
an elevated position in society; they are taught that poverty is not in itself an evil, but,
if borne in the right spirit, may be a blessing. Our instruction is adapted to the same end;
we do not instruct them in studies above their rank in life; reading, writing, the elementary
principles of arithmetic, geography, some of the natural sciences, and music, comprise the
course of study. In the calling they select, we do what we can to make them intelligent and
competent. Our boys are much sought for as apprentices by the farmers and artisans of the vicinity."

"Many of them, I suppose," said I, "had been guilty of petty thefts before coming here; do
you not find trouble from that propensity?"

"Very seldom; the perfect freedom from suspicion, and the confidence in each other, which we
have always maintained, make theft so mean a vice, that no boy who has a spark of honor left
will be guilty of it. In the few instances which do occur, the moral sense of the family is
so strong, that the offender is entirely subdued by it. An incident, illustrative of this,
occurs to me. Early in our history, a number of our boys undertook to erect a hut for some
purpose. It was more than half completed, and they were delighted with the idea of being able
soon to occupy it, when it was discovered that a single piece of timber, contributed by one
of the boys, had been obtained without leave. As soon as this was known, one of the boys seized
an axe, and demolished the building, in the presence of the offender, the rest looking on and
approving; nor could they afterward be induced to go on with it. At one time, several years
since, there were two or three petty thefts committed, (and a good deal of prevarication naturally
followed,) mainly by new pupils, of whom a considerable number had been admitted at once. Finding
ordinary reproof unavailing, I announced that family worship would be suspended till the delinquents
gave evidence of penitence. The effect of this measure was far beyond my expectation. Many
of the boys would meet in little groups, in the huts, for prayers among themselves; and ere
long the offenders came humbly suing for pardon and the resumption of worship."

During this conversation, we had left the Rough House and visited the new Lodge, erected in
1853, for a family of boys and a circle of Brothers, and the "Beehive," (Bienenkorb,) erected
in 1841, in the northeast corner of the grounds, the home of another family. Turning westward,
we came to the chapel, and a group of buildings connected with it, including the school-rooms,
the preparatory department for girls, the library, dwellings for two families of girls, the
kitchen, store-rooms, and offices. It was the hour of recess, and from the school-rooms rushed
forth a joyous company of children, plainly clad, and evidently belonging to the peasant class;
but though the marks of an early career of vice were stamped on many of their countenances,
yet there were not a few bright eyes, and intelligent, thoughtful faces. Seeing Dr. Wichern,
they came at once to him, with the impulsiveness of childhood, but with so evident a sense
of propriety and decorum, that I would not but compare their conduct with that of many pupils
in our best schools, and not to the advantage of the latter. The Doctor received them cordially,
and had a kind word for each, generally in reference to their improvement in behavior, or their
influence over others.

"This," said he, turning to me, as a bright, blue-eyed, flaxen-haired boy seized his hand,
"is one of our peace boys."

I did not understand what he meant by the term, and said so.

"Our peace boys," he replied, "are selected from the most trustworthy and exemplary of our
pupils, to aid in superintending the others. They have no authority to command, or even reprove;
but only to counsel and remind. To be selected for this duty is one of their highest rewards."

"There must be among so many boys," I remarked, "and particularly those taken from such sources,
a considerable number of born-destructives,--children in whom the propensity to break, tear,
and destroy is almost ineradicable; how do you manage these?"

"In the earlier days of our experiment," he replied, "we had much trouble from this source;
but at last we hit upon the plan of allowing each boy a certain sum of pocket-money, and deducting
from this, in part at least, the estimated value of whatever he destroyed. From the day this
rule was adopted all destructible articles seemed to have lost a great part of their fragility."

"Do the pupils often run away?" I asked.

"Very seldom, of late years; formerly we were occasionally troubled in that way. It was, of
course, easy for them to do it, as no fences or other methods of restraint were used,--our
reliance being upon affection, to retain them. If they made their escape, we usually sought
them out, and persuaded them to return, and they seldom repeated the offence. Some years ago,
one of our boys, who had repeatedly tried our patience by his waywardness, ran away. I pursued
him, found him, and persuaded him to return. It was Christmas eve when we arrived, and this
festival was always celebrated in my mother's chamber. As we entered the room, the children
were singing the Christmas hymns. As he appeared, they manifested strong disapprobation of
his conduct. They were told that they might decide among themselves how he should be punished.
They consulted together quietly for a few moments, and then one, who had himself been forgiven
some time before for a like fault, came forward, and, bursting into tears, pleaded that the
offender might be pardoned. The rest joined in the petition, and, extending to him the hand
of fellowship, soon turned their festival into a season of rejoicing over the returned prodigal.
The pardon thus accorded was complete; no subsequent reference was made to his misconduct;
and the next day, to show our confidence in him, a confidence which we never had occasion to
retract, we sent him on an errand to a considerable distance."

"How did they behave at the time of the great fire?" I inquired; "the excitement must surely
have reached you."

"No event in our whole history," answered Dr. Wichern, his fine countenance lighting up as
he spoke, "so fully satisfied me of the success which had attended our labors, as their behavior
on that occasion. On the second day of the fire, the boys, some of whom had relatives and friends
in the burning district, became so much excited by the intelligence brought by those who had
escaped from the flames, that they began to implore me to permit them to go and render assistance.
I feared, at first, the consequences of exposing them to the temptations to escape and plunder
by which they would be beset; but at length permitted a company of twenty-two to go with me,
on condition that they would keep together as much as possible, and return with me at an appointed
time. They promised to do this, and they fulfilled their promise to the letter. Their conduct
was in the highest degree heroic; they rushed into danger, for the sake of preserving lives
and property, with a coolness and bravery which put to shame the labors of the boldest firemen;
occasionally they would come to the place of rendezvous to reassure their teacher, and then
in a moment they were away again, laboring as zealously as ever, and utterly refusing any compensation,
however urgently pressed upon them. When they returned home, another band was sent out under
the direction of one of the house-fathers, and exerted themselves as faithfully as their predecessors
had done. But their sacrifices and toils did not end here. Among the thousands whom that fearful
conflagration left homeless, not a few came here for shelter and food. With these our boys
shared their meals, and gave up to them their beds,--themselves sleeping upon the ground, and
this for months."

I could not wonder at the enthusiasm of the good man over such deeds as these on the part of
boys whom he had rescued from a degradation of which we can hardly form an idea. It was a triumph
of which an angel might have been proud.

I was desirous of learning something of the industrial occupations of the pupils, and made
some inquiries respecting them.

"A considerable portion of our boys," said Dr. Wichern, "are engaged in agricultural, or rather,
horticultural pursuits. As we practise spade husbandry almost exclusively, and devote our grounds
to gardening purposes, we can furnish employment to quite a number. For those who prefer mechanical
pursuits, we have a printing-office, book-bindery, stereotype-foundry, lithographing and wood-engraving
establishment, paint-shop, silk-weaving manufactory, and shoe-shop, as well as those trades
which are carried on for the most part out of doors, such as masonry and carpentry. The girls
are mostly employed in household duties, and are in great demand as servants and assistants
in the households of our farmers."

Passing westward, we came next to the bakery and the farmer's residence, catching a glimpse
through the trees of the Fisherman's Hut, at a little distance, near the bank of the larger
of the two sylvan lakes on the premises, where another family are gathered, and then approachd
a large building of more pretension than the rest.

"This," said Dr. Wichern, "is the home of the Brothers of our Inner Mission, and the school-room
for our boarding-school boys, the children of respectable and often wealthy parents, who have
proved intractable at home."

"What," I asked, "do you include in the term, Inner Mission?"

"I must take a round-about method of answering your inquiry. When we found it necessary to
form new families, our greatest difficulty was in procuring suitable persons to become house-fathers
of these families. It was easy enough to obtain honest, intelligent men and women, who possessed
a fair education and a sufficient knowledge of some of the mechanic arts for the situation;
but we felt that much more than this was necessary. We wanted men and women who would act a
parent's part, and perform a parent's duty to the children under their care; and these, we
found, must be trained for the place. We then began our circles of Brothers, to furnish house-fathers
and assistants for our families. We required in the candidates for this office an irreproachable
character; that they should be free from physical defect, of good health and robust constitution;
that they should give evidence of piety, and of special adaptation to this calling; that they
should understand farming, or some one of the trades practised in the establishment, or possess
sufficient mechanical talent to acquire a knowledge of them readily; that they should have
already a certain amount of education, and an amiable and teachable disposition; and that they
should be not under twenty years of age, and exempt from military service."

"And do you find a sufficient number who can fulfil conditions so strict?" I inquired.

"Candidates are never wanting," was his reply, "though the demand for their services is large."

"What is your course of training?"

"Mainly practical; though we have a course of special instruction for them, occupying twenty
hours a week, in which, during their four years' residence with us, they are taught sacred
and profane history, German, English, geography, vocal and instrumental music, and the science
of teaching. Instruction on religious subjects is also given throughout the course. For the
purpose of practical training, they are attached, at first, to families as assistants, and
after a period of apprenticeship they undertake in rotation the direction. They teach the elementary
classes; visit the parents of the children, and report to them the progress which their pupils
have made; maintain a watchful supervision over them, after they leave the Rauhe Haus; and
assist in religious instruction, and in the correspondence. By the system of monthly rotation
we have adopted, each Brother is brought in contact with all the pupils, and is thus enabled
to avail himself of the experience acquired in each family."

"You spoke of a great demand for their services; I can easily imagine that men so trained should
be in demand; but what are the callings they pursue after leaving you? for you need but a limited
number as house-fathers and teachers."

"The Inner Mission," he replied, "has a wide field of usefulness. It furnishes directors and
house-fathers for reform schools organized on our plan, of which there are a number in Germany;
overseers, instructors, and assistants in agricultural and other schools; directors and subordinate
officers for prisons; directors, overseers, and assistants in hospitals and infirmaries; city
and home missionaries; and missionaries to colonies of emigrants in America."

"What is your annual expenditure above the products of your farm and workshops?" I asked.

"Somewhat less than fifty dollars a head for our entire population," was the reply.

It was by this time high noon, and as we returned to the Mutter-Haus, the benevolent superintendent
insisted that we should remain and partake with him of the mid-day meal. We complied, and presently
were summoned to the dining-hall, where we found a small circle of the Brothers, and the two
head teachers. After a brief but appropriate grace, we took our seats, being introduced by
the director.

"At supper all our teachers assemble here," said Dr. Wichern, "and with them those children
whose birthday it is; but at dinner the Brothers remain with their own families."

The table was abundantly supplied with plain but wholesome food, and the cheerful conversation
which ensued gave evidence that the cares of their position had not exerted a depressing influence
on their spirits. Each seemed thoroughly in love with his work, and in harmony with all the
rest. Dr. Wichern mentioned that I was from America.

"Have you," inquired one of the Brothers, "any institutions like this in your country?"

"We have," I answered, "Reform Schools, Houses of Refuge, Juvenile Asylums, and other reformatory
institutions; but I am afraid I must say, nothing like this. We are making progress, however,
in Juvenile Reform, and I hope that ere long we, too, may have a Rough House whose influence
shall pervade our country, as yours has done Central Europe."

"Dr. Wichern," inquired another, "have our friends visited the 'God's Acre?'"[A]

[Footnote A: The German name of a grave-yard.]

"Not yet," was the reply; "but I will go thither with them after we have dined, if they can
remain so long."

We assented, and one of the Brothers remarked,--

"Our boys have taken especial pains to beautify that favorite spot, this season."

"This disposition to adorn the resting-place of the body, so common among us, is becoming popular
in your country, I believe," said our host, courteously.

I replied, that it was,--that in our larger towns the place of burial was generally rendered
attractive, but that in the rural districts the burying-grounds were yet neglected and unsightly;
and ventured the opinion, that this neglect might be partly traceable to the iconoclastic tendencies
of our Puritan ancestors.

Dr. Wichern thought not; the neglect of the earthly home of the dead resulted from the prevalence
of indifference to the glorious doctrine of the Resurrection; and whatever a people might profess,
he could not but believe them infidel at heart, if they were entirely neglectful of the resting-place
of their dead.

The close of our repast precluded further discussion, and at our host's invitation we accompanied
him to the rural cemetery, where such of the pupils and Brothers as died during their connection
with the school were buried. An English writer has very appropriately called the Rauhe Haus
a "Home among the Flowers"; but the title is far more appropriate to this beautiful spot. Whatever
a pure and exquisite taste could conceive as becoming in a place consecrated to such a purpose,
willing hands have executed; and early every Sabbath morning, Dr. Wichern says, the pupils
resort hither to see that everything necessary is done to keep it in perfect order. The air
seemed almost heavy with the perfume of flowers; and though the home of the living pupils of
the Rauhe Haus is plain in the extreme, the palace of their dead surpasses in splendor that
of the proudest of earthly monarchs. One could hardly help coveting such a resting-place.

It was with reluctance that we at last turned our faces homeward, and bade the excellent director
farewell. The world has seen, in this nineteenth century, few nobler spirits than his. Possessed
of uncommon intellect, he combines with it executive talent of no ordinary character, and a
capacity for labor which seems almost fabulous. His duties as the head of the Inner Mission,
whose scope comprises the organization and management of reformatory institutions of all kinds,
throughout Germany, as well as efforts analogous to those of our city missions, temperance
societies, etc., might well be supposed to be sufficient for one man; but these are supplementary
to his labors as director of the Rauhe Haus, and editor of the Fliegende Blätter, and the other
literature, by no means inconsiderable, of the Inner Mission. Dr. Wichern is highly esteemed
and possesses almost unbounded influence throughout Germany; and that influence, potent as
it is, even with the princes and crowned heads of the German States, is uniformly exerted in
behalf of the poor, the unfortunate, the ignorant, and the degraded. When the history of philanthropy
shall be written, and the just meed of commendation bestowed on the benefactors of humanity,
how much more exalted a place will he receive, in the memory and gratitude of the world, than
the perjured and audacious despot who, born the same year, in the neighboring city of the Hague,
has won his way to the throne of France by deeds of selfishness and cruelty! Even to-day, who
would not rather be John Henry Wichern, the director of the Rauhe Haus at Horn, than Louis
Napoleon, emperor of France?

Would that on our own side of the Atlantic a Wichern might arise, whose abilities should be
sufficient to unite in one common purpose our reformatory enterprises, and rescue from infamy
and sin the tens of thousands of children who now, apt scholars in crime, throng the purlieus
of vice in our large cities, and are already committing deeds whose desperate wickedness might
well cause hardened criminals to shudder. The existence of a popular government depends, we
are often told, upon the intelligence and virtue of the people. What hope, then, can we have
of the perpetuity of our institutions, when those who are to control them have become monsters
of iniquity ere they have reached the age of manhood?

The forces of Good and Evil are ever striving for the mastery in human society. Happy is that
philanthropist, and honored should he be with a nation's gratitude, who can rescue these juvenile
offenders from the power of evil, and from the fearful suggestings of temptation and want,
and enlist them on the side of virtue and right! We rear monuments of marble and bronze to
those heroes who on the battle-field and in the fierce assault have kept our nation's fame
untarnished, and added new laurels to the renown of our country's prowess; but more enduring
than marble, more lasting than brass, should be the monument reared to him who, in the fierce
contest with the powers of evil, shall rescue the soul of the child from the grasp of the tempter,
and change the brutalized and degraded offspring of crime and lust into a youth of generous,
active, and noble impulses. But though earthly fame may be denied to such a benefactor of his
race, his record shall be on high; and at that grand assize where all human actions shall be
weighed, His voice, whose philanthropy exceeded, infinitely, the noblest deeds of benevolence
of the sons of earth, shall be heard, saying to these humble laborers in the vineyard of our
God, "Friends, come up higher!"

Those who are interested in knowing what has been accomplished by the reformatory institutions
of Europe will find a full and entertaining account of most of them in a volume recently published,
entitled "Papers on Preventive, Correctional, and Reformatory Institutions and Agencies in
Different Countries," by Henry Barnard, LL.D. Hartford: F.C. Brownell, 1857. Dr. Barnard has
done a good work in collecting these valuable documents.

BEAUTY.

  Fond lover of the Ideal Fair,
  My soul, eluded everywhere,
  Is lapsed into a sweet despair.
  Perpetual pilgrim, seeking ever,
  Baffled, enamored, finding never;
  Each morn the cheerful chase renewing,
  Misled, bewildered, still pursuing;
  Not all my lavished years have bought
  One steadfast smile from her I sought,
  But sidelong glances, glimpsing light,
  A something far too fine for sight,
  Veiled voices, far off thridding strains,
  And precious agonies and pains:
  Not love, but only love's dear wound
  And exquisite unrest I found.

  At early morn I saw her pass
  The lone lake's blurred and quivering glass;
  Her trailing veil of amber mist
  The unbending beaded clover kissed;
  And straight I hasted to waylay
  Her coming by the willowy way;--
  But, swift companion of the Dawn,
  She left her footprints on the lawn,
  And, in arriving, she was gone.
  Alert I ranged the winding shore;
  Her luminous presence flashed before;
  The wild-rose and the daisies wet
  From her light touch were trembling yet;
  Faint smiled the conscious violet;
  Each bush and brier and rock betrayed
  Some tender sign her parting made;
  And when far on her flight I tracked
  To where the thunderous cataract
  O'er walls of foamy ledges broke,
  She vanished in the vapory smoke.

  To-night I pace this pallid floor,
  The sparkling waves curl up the shore,
  The August moon is flushed and full;
  The soft, low winds, the liquid lull,
  The whited, silent, misty realm,
  The wan-blue heaven, each ghostly elm,
  All these, her ministers, conspire
  To fill my bosom with the fire
  And sweet delirium of desire.
  Enchantress! leave thy sheeny height,
  Descend, be all mine own this night,
  Transfuse, enfold, entrance me quite!
  Or break thy spell, my heart restore,
  And disenchant me evermore!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GRINDWELL GOVERNING MACHINE.

On the other side of the Atlantic there is a populous city called Grandville. It is, as its
name indicates, a great city,--but it is said that it thinks itself a good deal greater than
it really is. I meant to say that Grandville was its original name, and the name by which even
at the present day it is called by its own citizens. But there are certain wits, or it may
be, vulgar people, who by some process have converted this name into Grindwell.

I may be able, in the course of this sketch, to give a reason why so sounding and aristocratic
a name as Grandville has been changed into the plebeian one of Grindwell. I might account for
it by adducing similar instances of changes in the names of cities through the bad pronunciation
and spelling of foreigners. For instance, the English nickname Livorno Leghorn, the Germans
insist on calling Venice Venedig, and the French convert Washington into the Chinese word Voss-Hang-Tong.
And so it may be that the name Grindwell has originated among us Americans simply from miscalling
or misspelling the foreign name of Grandville.

I incline to think, however, that there is a better reason for the name.

For a good many years Grandville has been famous for a great machine, of a very curious construction,
which is said to regulate the movements of the whole city, and almost to convert the men, women,
and children into cranks, wheels, and pinions. As a model of this machine does not exist in
our Patent Office at Washington, I shall beg the reader's indulgence while I attempt to give
some account of it. It may be thought a very curious affair, though I believe there is little
about it that is original or new. The idea of it was handed down from remote generations.

In America I know that many persons may consider the Grindwell Governing Machine a humbug,--an
obsolete, absurd, and tyrannous institution, wholly unfitted to the nineteenth century. A machine
that proposes to think and act for the whole people, and which is rigidly opposed to the people's
thinking and acting for themselves, is likely to find little favor among us. With us the doctrine
is, that each one should think for himself,--be an individual mind and will, and not the spoke
of a wheel. Every American voter or votress is allowed to keep his or her little intellectual
wind-mill, coffee-mill, pepper-mill, loom, steam-engine, hand-organ, or whatever moral manufacturing
or grinding apparatus he or she likes. Each one may be his own Church or his own State, and
yet be none the less a good and useful citizen, and the union of the States be in none the
more danger. But it is not so in Grindwell. The rules of the Grindwell machine allow no one
to do his own grinding, unless his mill-wheel is turned by the central governing power. He
must allow the big State machine to do everything,--he paying for it, of course. A regular
programme prescribes what he shall believe and say and do; and any departure from this order
is considered a violation of the laws, or at least a reprehensible invasion of the time-honored
customs of the city.

The Grindwell Governing Machine (though a patent has been taken out for it in Europe, and it
is thought everything of by royal heads and the gilded flies that buzz about them) is really
an old machine, nearly worn out, and every now and then patched up and painted and varnished
anew. If a committee of our knowing Yankees were sent over to gain information with regard
to its actual condition, I am inclined to think they would bring back a curious and not very
favorable report. It wouldn't astonish me, if they should pronounce the whole apparatus of
the State rotten from top to bottom, and only kept from falling to pieces by all sorts of ingenious
contrivances of an external and temporary nature,--here a wheel, or pivot, or spring to be
replaced,--there a prop or buttress to be set up,--here a pipe choked up,--there a boiler burst,--and
so on, from one end of the works to the other. However, the machine keeps a-going, and many
persons think it works beautifully.

Everything is reduced to such perfect system in its operations, that the necessity for individual
opinion is almost superseded, and even private consciences are laid upon the shelf,--just as
people lay by an antiquated timepiece that no winding-up or shaking can persuade into marking
the hours,--for have they not the clock on the Government railroad station opposite, which
they can at any time consult by stepping to the window? For instance, individual honesty is
set aside and replaced by a system of rewards and punishments. Honesty is an old-fashioned
coat. The police, like a great sponge, absorbs the private virtue. It says to conscience, "Stay
there,--don't trouble yourself,--I will act for you."

You drop your purse in the street. A rogue picks it up. In his private conscience he says,
"Honesty is a very good thing, perhaps, but it is by no means the best policy,--it is simply
no policy at all,--it is sheer stupidity. What can be more politic than for me to pocket this
windfall and turn the corner quick?"--So preacheth his crooked fag-end of a conscience, that
very, very small still voice, in very husky tones; but he knows that a policeman, walking behind
him, saw him pick up the purse, which alters the case,--which, in fact, completely sets aside
his fag-end of a husky-voiced conscience, and makes virtue his necessity, and necessity his
virtue. External morality is hastily drawn on as a decent overcoat to hide the tag-rags of
his roguishness, while he magnanimously restores the purse to the owner.

Jones left his umbrella in a cab one night. Discovering that he hadn't it under his arm, he
rushed after the cabman; but he was gone. Jones had his number, however, and with it proceeded
the next day to the police-office, feeling sure that he would find his umbrella there. And
there, in a closet appropriated to articles left in hackney-coaches,--a perfect limbo of canes,
parasols, shawls, pocket-books, and what-not,--he found it, ticketed and awaiting its lawful
owner. The explanation of which mystery is, that the cabmen in Grindwell are strictly amenable
to the police for any departure from the system which provides for the security of private
property, and a yearly reward is given to those of the coach-driving fraternity who prove to
be the most faithful restorers of articles left in their carriages. Surely, the result of system
can no farther go than this,--that Monsieur Vaurien's moral sense, like his opinions, should
be absorbed and overruled by the governing powers.

What a capital thing it is to have the great governmental head and heart thinking and feeling
for us! Why, even the little boys, on winter afternoons, are restricted by the policemen from
sliding on the ice in the streets, for fear the impetuous little fellows should break or dislocate
some of their bones, and the hospital might have the expense of setting them; so patriarchal
a regard has the machine for its young friends!

I might allude here to a special department of the machine, which once had great power in overruling
the thoughts and consciences of the people, and which is still considered by some as not altogether
powerless. I refer to the Ecclesiastic department of the Grindwell works. This was formerly
the greatest labor-saving machinery ever invented. But however powerful the operation of the
Church machinery upon the grandmothers and grandfathers of the modern Grindwellites, it has
certainly fallen greatly into disuse, and is kept a-going now more for the sake of appearances
than for any real efficacy. The most knowing ones think it rather old-fashioned and cumbrous,--at
any rate, not comparable to the State machinery, either in its design or its mode of operation.
And as in these days of percussion-caps and Miniè rifles we lay by an old matchlock or crossbow,
using it only to ornament our walls,--or as the powdered postilion with his horn and his boots
is superseded by the locomotive and the electric telegraph,--so the old rusty Church wheels
are removed into buildings apart from the daily life of the people, where they seem to revolve
harmlessly and without any necessary connection with the State wheels.

Not that I mean to say that it works smoothly and well at all times,--this Grindwell machine.
How can such an old patched and crumbling apparatus be expected always to work well? And how
can you hope to find, even in the most enslaved or routine-ridden community, entire obedience
to the will of the monarch and his satellites? Unfortunately for the cause of order and quiet,
there will always be found certain tough lumps, in the shape of rebellious or non-conformist
men, which refuse to be melted in the strong solvents or ground up in the swift mills of Absolutism.
Government must look after these impediments. If they are positively dangerous, they must be
destroyed or removed. If only suspected, or known to be powerless or inactive, they must at
least be watched.

And here, again, the machine of government shows a remarkable ingenuity of organization.

For instance, it is said that there are pipes laid all along the streets, like hose, leading
from a central reservoir. Nobody knows exactly what they are for; but if any one steps upon
them, up spirts something like a stream of gas, and takes the form of a gendarme,--and the
unlucky street-walker must pay dear for his carelessness. Telegraph wires radiate like cobwebs
from the chamber of the main-spring, and carry intelligence of all that is going on in the
houses and streets. Man-traps are laid under the pavements,--sometimes they are secretly introduced
under your very table or bed,--and if anything is said against that piece of machinery called
the main-spring, or against the head engineer, the trap will nab you and fly away with you,
like the spider that carried off Margery Mopp. If a number of people get together to discuss
the meaning of and the reasons for the existence of the main-spring, or any of the big wheels
immediately connected therewith, the ground under them will sometimes give way, and they will
suddenly find themselves in unfurnished apartments not to their liking. And if any one should
be so rash as to put his hand on the wheels, he is cut to pieces or strangled by the silent,
incessant, fatal whirl of the engine.

The head engineer keeps his machine, and the city on which it acts, as much in the dark as
possible. He has a special horror of sunshine. He seems to think that the sky is one great
burning lens, and his machine-rooms and the city a vast powder-magazine.

There are certain articles thought to be especially dangerous. Newspapers are strictly forbidden,--unless
first steeped in a tincture of asbestos of a very dull color, expressly manufactured and supplied
by the Governing Machine. When properly saturated with the essence of dulness and death, and
brought down from a glaring white and black to a decidedly ashy-gray neutral color, a few small
newspapers are permitted to be circulated, but with the greatest caution. They sometimes take
fire, it is said,--these journals,--when brought too near any brain overcharged with electricity.
Two or three times, it is said, the Governing Machine has been put out of order by the newspapers
and their readers bringing too much electro-magnetism (or something like it) to bear on parts
of the works;--the machine had even taken fire and been nearly burnt up, and the head engineer
got so singed that he never dared to take the management of the works again.

So it is thought that nothing is so unfavorable to the working of the wheels as light, heat,
electricity, magnetism, and, generally, all the imponderable and uncatchable essences that
float about in the air; and these, it is thought, are generated and diffused by these villanous
newspapers. Certain kinds of books are also forbidden, as being electric conductors. Most of
the books allowed in the city of Grindwell are so heavy, that they are thought to be usually
non-conductors, and therefore quite safe in the hands of the people.

It is at the city gates that most vigilance is required with regard to the prohibited articles.
There the poor fellows who keep the gates have no rest night or day,--so many suspicious-looking
boxes, bundles, bales, and barrels claim admittance. Quantities of articles are arrested and
prevented from entering. Nothing that can in any way interfere with the great machine can come
in. Newspapers and books from other countries are torn and burnt up. Speaking-trumpets, ear-trumpets,
spectacles, microscopes, spy-glasses, telescopes, and, generally, all instruments and contrivances
for extending the sphere of ordinary knowledge, are very narrowly examined before they are
admitted. The only trumpets freely allowed are of a musical sort, fit to amuse the people,--the
only spectacles, green goggles to keep out the glare of truth's sunshine,--the magnifying-glasses,
those which exaggerate the proportions of the imperial governor of the machinery. All sorts
of moral lightning-rods and telegraph-wires are arrested, and lie in great piles outside the
city walls.

But in spite of the utmost vigilance and care of the officers at the gates and the sentinels
on the thick walls, dangerous articles and dangerous people will pass in. A man like Kossuth
or Mazzini going through would produce such a current of the electric fluid, that the machine
would be in great danger of combustion. Remonstrances were sometimes sent to neighboring cities,
to the effect that they should keep their light and heat to themselves, and not be throwing
such strong reflections into the weak eyes of the Grindwellites, and putting in danger the
governmental powder-magazine,--as the machine-offices were sometimes called. An inundation
or bad harvest, producing a famine among the poor, causes great alarm, and the government officers
have a time of it, running about distributing alms, or raising money to keep down the price
of bread. Thousands of servants in livery, armed with terrific instruments for the destruction
of life, are kept standing on and around the walls of the city, ready at a moment's notice
to shoot down any one who makes any movement or demonstration in a direction contrary to the
laws of the machine. And to support this great crowd of liveried lackeys, the people are squeezed
like sponges, till they furnish the necessary money.

The respectable editors of the daily papers go about somewhat as the dogs do in August, with
muzzles on their mouths. They are prohibited from printing more than a hundred words a day.
Any reference to the sunshine, or to any of the subtile and imponderable substances before
mentioned, is considered contrary to the order of the machine; to compensate for which, there
is great show of gaslight (under glass covers) throughout the city. Gas and moonshine are the
staple subjects of conversation. Besides lighting the streets and shops, the chief use of fire
seems to be for cooking, lighting pipes and cigars, and fireworks to amuse the working classes.

Great attention is paid to polishing and beautifying the outer case of the machine, and the
outer surface generally of the city of Grindwell. Where any portion of the framework has fallen
into dilapidation and decay, the gaunt skeleton bones of the ruined structure are decked and
covered with leaves and flowers. Old rusty boilers that are on the verge of bursting are newly
painted, varnished, and labelled with letters of gold. The main-spring, which has grown old
and weak, is said to be helped by the secret application of steam,--and the fires are fed with
huge bundles of worthless bank-bills and other paper promises. The noise of the clanking piston
and wheels is drowned by orchestras of music; the roofs and sides of the machine buildings
are covered all over with roses; and the smell of smoke and machine oil is prevented by scattering
delicious perfumes. The minds of the populace are turned from the precarious condition of things
by all sorts of public amusements, such as mask balls, theatres, operas, public gardens, etc.

But all this does not preserve some persons from the continual apprehension that there will
be one day a great and terrific explosion. Some say the city is sleeping over volcanic fires,
which will sooner or later burst up from below and destroy or change the whole upper surface.
The actual state of things might be represented on canvas by a gaping, laughing crowd pressing
around a Punch-and-Judy exhibition in the street, beneath a great ruined palace in the process
of repairing, where the rickety scaffolding, the loose stones and mortar, and in fact the whole
rotten building, may at any moment topple down upon their heads.

But while such grave thoughts are passing in the minds of some people, I must relate one or
two amusing scenes which lately occurred at the city gates.

Travellers are not prohibited from going and coming; but on entering, it is necessary to be
sure that they bring with their passports and baggage no prohibited or dangerous articles.
A young man from our side of the Atlantic, engaged in commerce, had been annoyed a good deal
by the gate-officers opening and searching his baggage. The next time he went to Grindwell,
he brought, besides his usual trunks and carpet-bags, a rather large and very mysterious-looking
box. After going through with the trunks and bags, the officers took hold of this box.

"Gentlemen," said the young practical joker, "I have great objections to having that box opened.
Yet it contains, I assure you, nothing contraband, nothing dangerous to the peace of the Grindwell
government or people. It is simply a toy I am taking to a friend's house as a Christmas present
to his little boy. If I open it, I fear I shall have difficulty in arranging it again as neatly
as I wish,--and it would be a great disappointment to my little friend Auguste Henri, if he
should not find it neatly packed. It would show at once that it had been opened; and children
like to have their presents done up nicely, just as they issued from the shop. Gentlemen, I
shall take it as a great favor, if you will let it pass."

"Sir," said the head officer, "it is impossible to grant the favor you ask. The government
is very strict. Many prohibited articles have lately found their way in. We are determined
to put a stop to it."

"Gentlemen," said the young man, "take hold of that box,--lift it. You see how light it is;
you see that there can be no contraband goods there,--still less, anything dangerous. I pray
you to let it pass."

"Impossible, Sir!" said the officer. "How do I know that there is nothing dangerous there?
The weight is nothing. Its lightness rather makes it the more suspicious. Boxes like this are
usually heavy. This is something out of the usual course. I'm afraid there's electricity here.
Gentlemen officers, proceed to do your duty!"

So a crowd of custom-house officers gathered around the suspected box, with their noses bent
down over the lid, awaiting the opening. One of them was about to proceed with hammer and chisel.

"Stop," said the young merchant, "I can save you a great deal of trouble. I can open it in
an instant. Allow me--by touching a little spring here"--

As he said this, he pressed a secret spring on the side of the box. No sooner was it done than,
the lid was thrown back with sudden and tremendous violence, as if by some living force, and
up jumped a hideous and shaggy monster which knocked the six custom-house officers flat on
their backs. It was an enormous Punchinello on springs, who had been confined in the box like
the Genie in the Arabian story, and by the broad grin on his face he seemed delighted with
his liberty and his triumph over his inquisitors. The six officers lay stunned by the blow;
and while others ran up to see what was the matter, the young traveller persuaded Mr. Punch
back again into his box, and, shutting him down, took advantage of the confusion to carry it
off with the rest of his baggage, and reach a cab in safety. When the officers recovered their
senses, the practical joker had escaped into the crowded city. They could give no clear account
of what had happened; but I verily believe they thought that Lucifer himself had knocked them
down, and was now let loose in the city of Grindwell.

Another amusing incident occurred afterwards at the city gates. An American lady, who was a
great lover of Art, had purchased a bronze bust of Plato somewhere on the Continent. She had
it carefully boxed, and took it along with her baggage. She got on very well until she reached
the city of Grindwell. Here she was stopped, of course, and her baggage examined. Finding nothing
contraband, they were about to let her pass, when they came to the box containing the ancient
philosopher's head.

"What's this?" they asked. "What's in this box, so heavy?"

"A bust," said the lady.

"A bust? so heavy? a bust in a lady's baggage?--Impossible!"

"I assure you, it is nothing but a bust."

"Pray, whose bust may it be, Madam?"

"The bust of Plato."

"Plato? Plato? Who's Plato? Is he an Italian?"

"He was a Greek philosopher."

"Why is it so heavy?"

"It is a bronze bust."

"We beg your pardon, Madam; but we fear there's something wrong here. This Plato may be a conspirator,--a
Carbonaro,--a member of some secret society,--a red-republican,--a conductor of the electric
fluid. How can we answer for this Plato? We don't like this heavy box;--these very heavy boxes
are suspicious. Suppose it should be some infernal-machine. Madam, we have our doubts. This
box must be detained till full inquiries are made."

There was no help for it. The box was detained. "It must be so, Plato!" After waiting several
hours, it was brought forward in presence of the entire company of inquisitors, and cautiously
opened. Seeing no Plato, but only some sawdust, they grew still more suspicious. Having placed
the box on the ground, they all retired to a safe distance, as if awaiting some explosion.
They evidently took it for an infernal-machine. In their eyes everything was a machine of some
sort or other. After waiting some time, and finding that it didn't burst, nor emit even a smell
of sulphur, the boldest man of the party approached it very cautiously, and upset it with his
foot and ran.

All this while the lady and her friends stood by, silent spectators of this farce. The only
danger of explosion was on their part, with laughter at the whole scene. They contrived, however,
to keep their countenances, though less rigidly than the Greek philosopher in the box did his.

When the custom-house officials found, that, though the box was upset, nothing occurred, they
grew more bold, and, approaching, saw a piece of the bronze head peering above the sawdust.
Then, for the first time, they began to feel ashamed of themselves. So replacing the sawdust
and the cover, they allowed the box to pass into the city, and tried, by avoiding to speak
of the affair among themselves, to forget what donkeys they had been.

The Grindwell government has many such alarms, and never appears entirely at its ease. It is
fully aware of the combustible nature of the component parts of the Governing Machine. There
is consequently great outlay of means to insure its safety. An immense number of public spies
and functionaries are constantly employed in looking after the fires and lights about the city.
Heavy restrictions are laid on all substances containing electricity, and great care is taken
lest this subtile fluid should condense in spots and take the form of lightning. Fortunately,
the unclouded sunshine seldom comes into Grindwell, else there would be the same fears with
regard to light.

So long as this perpetual surveillance is kept up, the machine seems to work on well enough
in the main; but the moment there is any remissness on the part of the police,--bang! goes
a small explosion somewhere,--or, crack! a bit of the machinery,--and out rush the engineers
with their bags of cotton-wool or tow to stop up the chinks, or their bundles of paper money
to keep up the steam, or their buckets of oil and soft soap to pour upon the wheels.

One eccentric gentleman of my acquaintance persists in predicting that any day there may be
a general blow-up, and the whole concern, engineers, financiers, priests, soldiers, and flunkies,
all go to smash. He evidently wishes to see it, though, as far as personal comfort goes, one
would rather be out of the way at such a time.

Most people seem to think, that, considering all things, the present head engineer is about
the best man that could be found for the post he occupies. There are, however, a number of
the Grindwell people--I can't say how many, for they are afraid to speak--who feel more and
more that they are living in a stifled and altogether abnormal condition, and wish for an indefinite
supply of the light, heat, air, and electricity which they see some of the neighboring cities
enjoying.

What the result is to be no one can yet tell. We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and
our little life is rounded with--a crust; some say, a very thin crust, such as might be got
up by a skilful patissier, and over which gilded court-flies, and even scaraboei, may crawl
with safety, but--which must inevitably cave in beneath the boot-heels of a real, true, thinking
man. We cannot forget that there are measureless catacombs and caverns yawning beneath the
streets and houses of modern Grindwell.

SAINTS, AND THEIR BODIES.

Ever since the time of that dyspeptic heathen, Plotinus, the saints have been "ashamed of their
bodies." What is worse, they have usually had reason for the shame. Of the four famous Latin
fathers, Jerome describes his own limbs as misshapen, his skin as squalid, his bones as scarcely
holding together; while Gregory the Great speaks in his Epistles of his own large size, as
contrasted with his weakness and infirmities. Three of the four Greek fathers--Chrysostom,
Basil, and Gregory of Nazianzen--ruined their health early, and were wretched invalids for
the remainder of their days. Three only of the whole eight were able-bodied men,--Ambrose,
Augustine, and Athanasius; and the permanent influence of these three has been far greater,
for good or for evil, than that of all the others put together.

Robust military saints there have doubtless been, in the Roman Catholic Church: George, Michael,
Sebastian, Eustace, Martin,--not to mention Hubert the Hunter, and Christopher the Christian
Hercules. But these have always held a very secondary place in canonization. If we mistake
not, Maurice and his whole Theban legion were sainted together, to the number of six thousand
six hundred and sixty-six; doubtless they were stalwart men, but there never yet has been a
chapel erected to one of them. The mediaeval type of sanctity was a strong soul in a weak body;
and it could be intensified either by strengthening the one or by further debilitating the
other. The glory lay in contrast, not in combination. Yet, to do them justice, they conceded
a strong and stately beauty to their female saints,--Catherine, Agnes, Agatha, Barbara, Cecilia,
and the rest. It was reserved for the modern Pre-Raphaelites to attempt the combination of
a maximum of saintliness with a minimum of pulmonary and digestive capacity.

But, indeed, from that day to this, the saints by spiritual laws have usually been sinners
against physical laws, and the artists have merely followed the examples they found. Vasari
records, that Carotto's masterpiece of painting, "The Three Archangels," at Verona, was criticized
because the limbs of the angels were too slender, and Carotto, true to his conventional standard,
replied, "Then they will fly the better." Saints have been flying to heaven for the same reason
ever since,--and have commonly flown very early.

Indeed, the earlier some such saints cast off their bodies the better, they make so little
use of them. Chittagutta, the Buddhist saint, dwelt in a cave in Ceylon. His devout visitors
one day remarked on the miraculous beauty of the legendary paintings, representing scenes from
the life of Buddha, which adorned the walls. The holy man informed them, that, during his sixty
years' residence in the cave, he had been too much absorbed in meditation to notice the existence
of the paintings, but he would take their word for it. And in this non-intercourse with the
visible world there has been an apostolical succession, from Chittagutta, down to the Andover
divinity-student who refused to join his companions in their admiring gaze on that wonderful
autumnal landscape which spreads itself before the Seminary Hill in October, but marched back
into the Library, ejaculating, "Lord, turn thou mine eyes from beholding vanity!"

It is to be reluctantly recorded, in fact, that the Protestant saints have not ordinarily had
much to boast of, in physical stamina, as compared with the Roman Catholic. They have not got
far beyond Plotinus. We do not think it worth while to quote Calvin on this point, for he,
as everybody knows, was an invalid for his whole lifetime. But we do take it hard, that the
jovial Luther, in the midst of his ale and skittles, should have deliberately censured Juvenal's
mens sana in corpore sano, as a pagan maxim!

If Saint Luther fails us, where are the advocates of the body to look for comfort? Nothing
this side of ancient Greece, we fear, will afford adequate examples of the union of saintly
souls and strong bodies. Pythagoras the sage we doubt not to have been identical with Pythagoras
the inventor of pugilism, and he was, at any rate, (in the loving words of Bentley,) "a lusty
proper man, and built as it were to make a good boxer." Cleanthes, whose sublime "Prayer" is,
to our thinking, the highest strain left of early piety, was a boxer likewise. Plato was a
famous wrestler, and Socrates was unequalled for his military endurance. Nor was one of these,
like their puny follower Plotinus, too weak-sighted to revise his own manuscripts.

It would be tedious to analyze the causes of this modern deterioration of the saints. The fact
is clear. There is in the community an impression that physical vigor and spiritual sanctity
are incompatible. We knew a young Orthodox divine who lost his parish by swimming the Merrimac
River, and another who was compelled to ask a dismissal in consequence of vanquishing his most
influential parishioner in a game of ten-pins; it seemed to the beaten party very unclerical.
We further remember a match, in a certain sea-side bowling-alley, in which two brothers, young
divines, took part. The sides being made up, with the exception of these two players, it was
necessary to find places for them also. The head of one side accordingly picked his man, on
the presumption (as he afterwards confessed) that the best preacher would naturally be the
worst bowler. The athletic capacity, he thought, would be in inverse ratio to the sanctity.
We are happy to add, that in this case his hopes were signally disappointed. But it shows which
way the popular impression lies.

The poets have probably assisted In maintaining the delusion. How many cases of consumption
Wordsworth must have accelerated by his assertion, that "the good die first"! Happily, he lived
to disprove his own maxim. We, too, repudiate it utterly. Professor Peirce has proved by statistics
that the best scholars in our colleges survive the rest; and we hold that virtue, like intellect,
tends to longevity. The experience of the literary class shows that all excess is destructive,
and that we need the harmonious action of all the faculties. Of the brilliant roll of the "young
men of 1830," in Paris,--Balzac, Soulié, De Musset, De Bernard, Sue, and their compeers,--it
is said that nearly every one has already perished, in the prime of life. What is the explanation?
A stern one: opium, tobacco, wine, and licentiousness. "All died of softening of the brain
or spinal marrow, or swelling of the heart." No doubt, many of the noble and the pure were
dying prematurely at the same time; but it proceeded from the same essential cause: physical
laws disobeyed and bodies exhausted. The evil is, that what in the debauchee is condemned,
as suicide, is lauded in the devotee, as saintship. The delirium tremens of the drunkard conveys
scarcely a sterner moral lesson than the second childishness of the pure and abstemious Southey.

But, happily, times change, and saints with them. Our moral conceptions are expanding to take
in that "athletic virtue" of the Greeks, [Greek: apetae gimnastikae] which Dr. Arnold, by precept
and practice, defended. The modern English "Broad Church" aims at breadth of shoulders, as
well as of doctrines. Kingsley paints his stalwart Philammons and Amyas Leighs, and his critics
charge him with laying down a new definition of the saint, as a man who fears God and can walk
a thousand miles in a thousand hours. Our American saintship, also, is beginning to have a
body to it, a "Body of Divinity," indeed. Look at our three great popular preachers. The vigor
of the paternal blacksmith still swings the sinewy arm of Beecher; Parker performed the labors,
mental and physical, of four able-bodied men, until even his great strength temporarily yielded;--and
if ever dyspepsia attack the burly frame of Chapin, we fancy that dyspepsia will get the worst
of it.

This is as it should be. One of the most potent causes of the ill-concealed alienation between
the clergy and the people, in our community, is the supposed deficiency, on the part of the
former, of a vigorous, manly life. It must be confessed that our saints suffer greatly from
this moral and physical anhaemia, this bloodlessness, which separates them, more effectually
than a cloister, from the strong life of the age. What satirists upon religion are those parents
who say of their pallid, puny, sedentary, lifeless, joyless little offspring, "He is born for
a minister," while the ruddy, the brave, and the strong are as promptly assigned to a secular
career! Never yet did an ill-starred young saint waste his Saturday afternoons in preaching
sermons in the garret to his deluded little sisters and their dolls, without living to repent
it in maturity. These precocious little sentimentalists wither away like blanched potato-plants
in a cellar; and then comes some vigorous youth from his out-door work or play, and grasps
the rudder of the age, as he grasped the oar, the bat, or the plough-handle. We distrust the
achievements of every saint without a body; and really have hopes of the Cambridge Divinity
School, since hearing that it has organized a boat-club.

We speak especially of men, but the same principles apply to women. The triumphs of Rosa Bonheur
and Harriet Hosmer grew out of a free and vigorous training, and they learned to delineate
muscle by using it.

Everybody admires the physical training of military and naval schools. But these same persons
never seem to imagine that the body is worth cultivating for any purpose, except to annihilate
the bodies of others. Yet it needs more training to preserve life than to destroy it. The vocation
of a literary man is far more perilous than that of a frontier dragoon. The latter dies at
most but once, by an Indian bullet; the former dies daily, unless he be warned in time and
take occasional refuge in the saddle and the prairie with the dragoon. What battle-piece is
so pathetic as Browning's "Grammarian's Funeral"? Do not waste your gymnastics on the West
Point or Annapolis student, whose whole life will be one of active exercise, but bring them
into the professional schools and the counting-rooms. Whatever may be the exceptional cases,
the stern truth remains, that the great deeds of the world can be more easily done by illiterate
men than by sickly ones. And yet more eloquently it has been said by a younger American thinker,
(D.A. Wasson,) "Intellect in a weak body is like gold in a spent swimmer's pocket,--the richer
he would be, under other circumstances, by so much the greater his danger now."

Of course, the mind has immense control over physical endurance, and every one knows that among
soldiers, sailors, emigrants, and woodsmen, the leaders, though more delicately nurtured, will
often endure hardship better than the followers,--"because," says Sir Philip Sidney, "they
are supported by the great appetites of honor." But for all these triumphs of nervous power
a reaction lies in store, as in the case of the superhuman efforts often made by delicate women.
And besides, there is a point beyond which no mental heroism can ignore the body,--as, for
instance, in seasickness and toothache. Can virtue arrest consumption, or self-devotion set
free the agonized breath of asthma, or heroic energy defy paralysis? More formidable still
are those subtle results of disease, which cannot be resisted, because their source is unseen.
Voltaire declared that the fate of a nation had often depended on the good or bad digestion
of a prime-minister; and Motley holds that the gout of Charles V. changed the destinies of
the world.

But so blinded, on these matters, is our accustomed mode of thought, that Mr. Beecher's recent
lecture on the Laws of Nature has been met with strong objections from a portion of the religious
press. These newspapers agree in asserting that admiration of physical strength belonged to
the barbarous ages of the world. So it certainly did, and so much the better for those ages.
They had that one merit, at least; and so surely as an exclusively intellectual civilization
ignored it, the arm of some robust barbarian prostrated that civilization at last. What Sismondi
says of courage is preëminently true of that bodily vigor which it usually presupposes: that,
although it is by no means the first of virtues, its loss is more fatal than that of all others.
"Were it possible to unite the advantages of a perfect government with the cowardice of a whole
people, those advantages would be utterly valueless, since they would be utterly without security."

Physical health is a necessary condition of all permanent success. To the American people it
has a stupendous importance because it is the only attribute of power in which they are losing
ground. Guaranty us against physical degeneracy, and we can risk all other perils,--financial
crises, Slavery, Romanism, Mormonism, Border Ruffians, and New York assassins; "domestic malice,
foreign levy, nothing" can daunt us. Guaranty us health, and Mrs. Stowe cannot frighten us
with all the prophecies of Dred; but when her sister Catherine informs us that in all the vast
female acquaintance of the Beecher family there are not a dozen healthy women, we confess ourselves
a little tempted to despair of the republic.

The one drawback to satisfaction in our Public-School System is the physical weakness which
it reveals and helps to perpetuate. One seldom notices a ruddy face in the school-room, without
tracing it back to a Transatlantic origin. The teacher of a large school in Canada went so
far as to declare to us, that she could recognize the children born this side the line by their
invariable appearance of ill-health joined with intellectual precocity,--stamina wanting, and
the place supplied by equations. Look at a class of boys or girls in our Grammar Schools; a
glance along the line of their backs affords a study of geometrical curves. You almost long
to reverse the position of their heads, as Dante has those of the false prophets, and thus
improve their figures; the rounded shoulders affording a vigorous chest, and the hollow chest
an excellent back.

There are statistics to show that the average length of human life is increasing; but it is
probable that this results from the diminution of epidemic diseases, rather than from any general
improvement in physique. There are facts also to indicate an increase of size and strength
with advancing civilization. It is known that two men of middle size were unable to find a
suit of armor large enough among the sixty sets owned by Sir Samuel Meyrick. It is also known
that the strongest American Indians cannot equal the average strength of wrist of Europeans,
or rival them in ordinary athletic feats. Indeed, it is generally supposed that any physical
deterioration is local, being peculiar to the United States. Recently, however, we have read,
with great regret, in the "Englishwoman's Review," that "it is allowed by all, that the appearance
of the English peasant, in the present day, is very different to [from] what it was fifty years
ago; the robust, healthy, hard-looking countrywoman or girl is as rare now as the pale, delicate,
nervous female of our times would have been a century ago." And the writer proceeds to give
alarming illustrations, based upon the appearance of children in English schools, both in city
and country.

We cannot speak for England, but certainly no one can visit Canada without being struck with
the spectacle of a more athletic race of people than our own. On every side one sees rosy female
faces and noble manly figures. In the shop-windows, in winter weather, hang snow-shoes, "gentlemen's
and ladies' sizes." The street-corners inform you that the members of the "Curling Club" are
to meet to-day at "Dolly's," and the "Montreal Fox-hounds" at St. Lawrence Hall to-morrow.
And next day comes off the annual steeple-chase, at the "Mile-End Course," ridden by gentlemen
of the city with their own horses; a scene, by the way, whose exciting interest can scarcely
be conceived by those accustomed only to "trials of speed" at agricultural exhibitions. Everything
indicates out-door habits and athletic constitutions.

We are aware that we may be met with the distinction between a good idle constitution and a
good working constitution,--the latter of which often belongs to persons who make no show of
physical powers. But this only means that there are different temperaments and types of physical
organization, while, within the limits of each, the distinction between a healthy and a diseased
condition still holds; and we insist on that alone.

Still more specious is the claim of the Fourth-of-July orators, that, health or no health,
it is the sallow Americans, and not the robust English, who are really leading the world. But
this, again, is a question of temperaments. The Englishman concedes the greater intensity,
but prefers a more solid and permanent power. It is the noble masonry and vast canals of Montreal,
against the Aladdin's palaces of Chicago. "I observe," admits the Englishman, "that an American
can accomplish more, at a single effort, than any other man on earth; but I also observe that
he exhausts himself in the achievement. Kane, a delicate invalid, astounds the world by his
two Arctic winters,--and then dies in tropical Cuba." The solution is simple; nervous energy
is grand, and so is muscular power; combine the two, and you move the world.

We shall assume, as admitted, therefore, the deficiency of physical health in America, and
the need of a great amendment. But into the general question of cause and cure we do not propose
to enter. In view of the vast variety of special theories, and the inadequacy of any one, (or
any dozen,) we shall forbear. To our thinking, the best diagnosis of the universal American
disease is to be found in Andral's famous description of the cholera: "Anatomical characteristics,
insufficient;--cause, mysterious;--nature, hypothetical;--symptoms, characteristic;--diagnosis,
easy;--treatment, very doubtful."

Every man must have his hobby, however, and it is a great deal to ride only one hobby at a
time. For the present we disavow all minor ones. We forbear giving our pet arguments in defence
of animal food, and in opposition to tobacco, coffee, and india-rubbers. We will not criticize
the old-school physician whom we once knew, who boasted of not having performed a thorough
ablution for twenty-five years; nor will we question the physiological orthodoxy of Miss Sedgwick's
New England artist, who represented the Goddess of Health with a pair of flannel drawers on.
Still less should we think of debating (or of tasting) Kennedy's Medical Discovery, or R.R.R.,
or the Cow Pepsin. We know our aim, and will pursue it with a single eye.

  "The wise for cure on exercise depend,"

saith Dryden,--and that is our hobby.

A great physician has said, "I know not which is most indispensable for the support of the
frame,--food or exercise." But who, in this community, really takes exercise? Even the mechanic
commonly confines himself to one set of muscles; the blacksmith acquires strength in his right
arm, and the dancing-master in his left leg. But the professional or business man, what muscles
has he at all? The tradition, that Phidippides ran from Athens to Sparta, one hundred and twenty
miles, in two days, seems to us Americans as mythical as the Golden Fleece. Even to ride sixty
miles in a day, to walk thirty, to run five, or to swim one, would cost most men among us a
fit of illness, and many their lives. Let any man test his physical condition, we will not
say by sawing his own cord of wood, but by an hour in the gymnasium or at cricket, and his
enfeebled muscular apparatus will groan with rheumatism for a week. Or let him test the strength
of his arms and chest by raising and lowering himself a few times upon a horizontal bar, or
hanging by the arms to a rope, and he will probably agree with Galen in pronouncing it robustum
validumque laborem. Yet so manifestly are these things within the reach of common constitutions,
that a few weeks or months of judicious practice will renovate his whole system, and the most
vigorous exercise will refresh him like a cold bath.

To a well-regulated frame, mere physical exertion, even for an uninteresting object, is a great
enjoyment, which is, of course, enhanced by the excitement of games and sports. To almost every
man there is joy in the memory of these things; they are the happiest associations of his boyhood.
It does not occur to him, that he also might be as happy as a boy, if he lived more like one.
What do most men know of the "wild joys of living," the daily zest and luxury of out-door existence,
in which every healthy boy beside them revels?--skating, while the orange sky of sunset dies
away over the delicate tracery of gray branches, and the throbbing feet pause in their tingling
motion, and the frosty air is filled with the shrill sound of distant steel, the resounding
of the ice, and the echoes up the hillsides?--sailing, beating up against a stiff breeze, with
the waves thumping under the bow, as if a dozen sea-gods had laid their heads together to resist
it?--climbing tall trees, where the higher foliage, closing around, cures the dizziness which
began below, and one feels as if he had left a coward beneath and found a hero above?--the
joyous hour of crowded life in football or cricket?--the gallant glories of riding, and the
jubilee of swimming?

The charm which all have found in Tom Brown's "School Days at Rugby" lies simply in this healthy
boy's-life which it exhibits, and in the recognition of physical culture, which is so novel
to Americans. At present, boys are annually sent across the Atlantic simply for bodily training.
But efforts after the same thing begin to creep in among ourselves. A few Normal Schools have
gymnasiums (rather neglected, however); the "Mystic Hall Female Seminary" advertises riding-horses;
and we believe the new "Concord School" recognizes boating as an incidental;--but these are
all exceptional cases, and far between. Faint and shadowy in our memory are certain ruined
structures lingering Stonehenge-like on the Cambridge "Delta,"--and mysterious pits adjoining,
into which Freshmen were decoyed to stumble, and of which we find that vestiges still remain.
Tradition spoke of Dr. Follen and German gymnastics; but the beneficent exotic was transplanted
prematurely, and died. The only direct encouragement of athletic exercises which stands out
in our memory of academic life was a certain inestimable shed on the "College Wharf," which
was for a brief season the paradise of swimmers, and which, after having been deliberately
arranged for their accommodation, was suddenly removed, the next season, to make room for coal-bins.
Manly sports were not positively discouraged in our day,--but that was all.

Yet earlier reminiscences of the same beloved Cambridge suggest deeper gratitude. Thanks to
thee, W.W.,--first pioneer, in New England, of true classical learning,--last wielder of the
old English birch,--for the manly British sympathy which encouraged to activity the bodies,
as well as the brains, of the numerous band of boys who played beneath the stately elms of
that pleasant play-ground! Who among modern pedagogues can show such an example of vigorous
pedestrianism in his youth as thou in thine age? and who now grants half-holidays, unasked,
for no other reason than that the skating is good and the boys must use it while it lasts?

We cling still to the belief, that the Persian curriculum of studies--to ride, to shoot, and
to speak the truth--is the better part of a boy's education. As the urchin is undoubtedly physically
safer for having learned to turn a somerset and fire a gun, perilous though these feats appear
to mothers,--so his soul is made healthier, larger, freer, stronger, by hours and days of manly
exercise and copious draughts of open air, at whatever risk of idle habits and bad companions.
Even if the balance is sometimes lost, and play prevails, what matter? We rejoice to have been
a schoolmate of him who wrote

  "The hours the idle schoolboy squandered
  The man would die ere he'd forget."

Only keep in a boy a pure and generous heart, and, whether he work or play, his time can scarcely
be wasted. Which really has done most for the education of Boston,--Dixwell and Sherwin, or
Sheridan and Braman?

Should it prove, however, that the cultivation of active exercises diminishes the proportion
of time given by children to study, we can only view it as an added advantage. Every year confirms
us in the conviction, that our schools, public and private, systematically overtask the brains
of the rising generation. We all complain that Young America grows to mental maturity too soon,
and yet we all contribute our share to continue the evil. It is but a few weeks since we saw
the warmest praises, in the New York newspapers, of a girl's school, in that city, where the
appointed hours of study amounted to nine and a quarter daily, and the hours of exercise to
a bare unit. Almost all the Students' Manuals assume that American students need stimulus instead
of restraint, and urge them to multiply the hours of study and diminish those of out-door amusements
and of sleep, as if the great danger did not lie that way already. When will parents and teachers
learn to regard mental precocity as a disaster to be shunned, instead of a glory to be coveted?
We could count up a dozen young men who have graduated at Harvard College, during the last
twenty years, with high honors, before the age of eighteen; and we suppose that nearly every
one of them has lived to regret it. "Nature," says Tissot, in his Essay on the Health of Men
of Letters, "is unable successfully to carry on two rapid processes at the same time. We attempt
a prodigy, and the result is a fool." There was a child in Languedoc who at six years was of
the size of a large man; of course, his mind was a vacuum. On the other hand, Jean Philippe
Baratier was a learned man in his eighth year, and died of apparent old age at twenty. Both
were monstrosities, and a healthy childhood would be equidistant from either.

One invaluable merit of out-door sports is to be found in this, that they afford the best cement
for childish friendship. Their associations outlive all others. There is many a man, now perchance
hard and worldly, whom we love to pass in the street simply because in meeting him we meet
spring flowers and autumn chestnuts, skates and cricket-balls, cherry-birds and pickerel. There
is an indescribable fascination in the gradual transference of these childish companionships
into maturer relations. We love to encounter in the contests of manhood those whom we first
met at football, and to follow the profound thoughts of those who always dived deeper, even
in the river, than our efforts could attain. There is a certain governor, of whom we personally
can remember only, that he found the Fresh Pond heronry, which we sought in vain; and in memory
the august sheriff of a neighboring county still skates in victorious pursuit of us, (fit emblem
of swift-footed justice!) on the black ice of the same lovely lake. Our imagination crowns
the Cambridge poet, and the Cambridge sculptor, not with their later laurels, but with the
willows out of which they taught us to carve whistles, shriller than any trump of fame, in
the happy days when Mount Auburn was Sweet Auburn still.

Luckily, boy-nature is too strong for theory. And we admit, for the sake of truth, that physical
education is not so entirely neglected among us as the absence of popular games would indicate.
We suppose, that, if the truth were told, this last fact proceeds partly from the greater freedom
of field-sports in this country. There are few New England boys who do not become familiar
with the rod or gun in childhood. We take it, that, in the mother country, the monopoly of
land interferes with this, and that game laws, by a sort of spontaneous pun, tend to introduce
games.

Again, the practice of match-playing is opposed to our habits, both as a consumer of time and
as partaking too much of gambling. Still, it is done in the case of "firemen's musters," which
are, we believe, a wholly indigenous institution. We have known a very few cases where the
young men of neighboring country parishes have challenged each other to games of base-ball,
as is common in England; and there was, if we mistake not, a recent match at football between
the boys of the Fall River and the New Bedford High Schools. And within a few years regattas
and cricket-matches have become common events. Still, these public exhibitions are far from
being a full exponent of the athletic habits of our people; and there is really more going
on among us than this meagre "pentathlon" exhibits.

Again, a foreigner is apt to infer, from the more desultory and unsystematized character of
our out-door amusements, that we are less addicted to them than we really are. But this belongs
to the habit of our nation, impatient, to a fault, of precedents and conventionalisms. The
English-born Frank Forrester complains of the total indifference of our sportsmen to correct
phraseology. We should say, he urges, "for large flocks of wild fowl,--of swans, a whiteness,--of
geese, a gaggle,--of brent, a gang,--of duck, a team or a plump,--of widgeon, a trip,--of snipes,
a wisp,--of larks, an exaltation.--The young of grouse are cheepers,--of quail, squeakers,--of
wild duck, flappers." And yet, careless of these proprieties, Young America goes "gunning"
to good purpose. So with all games. A college football-player reads with astonishment Tom Brown's
description of the very complicated performance which passes under that name at Rugby. So cricket
is simplified; it is hard to organize an American club into the conventional distribution of
point and cover-point, long slip and short slip, but the players persist in winning the game
by the most heterodox grouping. This constitutional independence has its good and evil results,
in sports as elsewhere. It is this which has created the American breed of trotting horses,
and which won the Cowes regatta by a mainsail as flat as a board.

But, so far as there is a deficiency in these respects among us, this generation must not shrink
from the responsibility. It is unfair to charge it on the Puritans. They are not even answerable
for Massachusetts; for there is no doubt that athletic exercises, of some sort, were far more
generally practised in this community before the Revolution than at present. A state of almost
constant Indian warfare then created an obvious demand for muscle and agility. At present there
is no such immediate necessity. And it has been supposed that a race of shopkeepers, brokers,
and lawyers could live without bodies. Now that the terrible records of dyspepsia and paralysis
are disproving this, we may hope for a reaction in favor of bodily exercises. And when we once
begin the competition, there seems no reason why any other nation should surpass us. The wide
area of our country, and its variety of surface and shore, offer a corresponding range of physical
training. Take our coasts and inland waters alone. It is one thing to steer a pleasure-boat
with a rudder, and another to steer a dory with an oar; one thing to paddle a birch-canoe,
and another to paddle a ducking-float; in a Charles River club-boat, the post of honor is in
the stern,--in a Penobscot bateau, in the bow; and each of these experiences educates a different
set of muscles. Add to this the constitutional American receptiveness, which welcomes new pursuits
without distinction of origin,--unites German gymnastics with English sports and sparring,
and takes the red Indians for instructors in paddling and running. With these various aptitudes,
we certainly ought to become a nation of athletes.

We have shown, that, in one way or another, American schoolboys obtain active exercise. The
same is true, in a very limited degree, even of girls. They are occasionally, in our larger
cities, sent to gymnasiums,--the more the better. Dancing-schools are better than nothing,
though all the attendant circumstances are usually unfavorable. A fashionable young lady is
estimated to traverse her three hundred miles a season on foot; and this needs training. But
out-door exercise for girls is terribly restricted, first by their costume, and secondly by
the remarks of Mrs. Grundy. All young female animals unquestionably require as much motion
as their brothers, and naturally make as much noise; but what mother would not be shocked,
in the case of her girl of twelve, by one-tenth part the activity and uproar which are recognized
as being the breath of life to her twin brother? Still, there is a change going on, which is
tantamount to an admission that there is an evil to be remedied. Twenty years ago, if we mistake
not, it was by no means considered "proper" for little girls to play with their hoops and balls
on Boston Common; and swimming and skating have hardly been recognized as "ladylike" for half
that period of time.

Still it is beyond question, that far more out-door exercise is habitually taken by the female
population of almost all European countries than by our own. In the first place, the peasant
women of all other countries (a class non-existent here) are trained to active labor from childhood;
and what traveller has not seen, on foreign mountain-paths, long rows of maidens ascending
and descending the difficult ways, bearing heavy burdens on their heads, and winning by the
exercise such a superb symmetry and grace of figure as were a new wonder of the world to Cisatlantic
eyes? Among the higher classes, physical exercises take the place of these things. Miss Beecher
glowingly describes a Russian female seminary in which nine hundred girls of the noblest families
were being trained by Ling's system of calisthenics, and her informant declared that she never
beheld such an array of girlish health and beauty. Englishwomen, again, have horsemanship and
pedestrianism, in which their ordinary feats appear to our healthy women incredible. Thus,
Mary Lamb writes to Miss Wordsworth, (both ladies being between fifty and sixty,) "You say
you can walk fifteen miles with ease; that is exactly my stint, and more fatigues me"; and
then speaks pityingly of a delicate lady who could accomplish only "four or five miles every
third or fourth day, keeping very quiet between." How few American ladies, in the fulness of
their strength, (if female strength among us has any fulness,) can surpass this English invalid!

But even among American men, how few carry athletic habits into manhood! The great hindrance,
no doubt, is absorption in business; and we observe that this winter's hard times and consequent
leisure have given a great stimulus to outdoor sports. But in most places there is the further
obstacle, that a certain stigma of boyishness goes with them. So early does this begin, that
we remember, in our teens, to have been slightly reproached with juvenility, because, though
a Senior Sophister, we still clung to football. Juvenility! We only wish we had the opportunity
now. Full-grown men are, of course, intended to take not only as much, but far more active
exercise than boys. Some physiologists go so far as to demand six hours of out-door life daily;
and it is absurd in us to complain that we have not the healthy animal happiness of children,
while we forswear their simple sources of pleasure.

Most of the exercise habitually taken by men of sedentary pursuits is in the form of walking.
We believe its merits to be greatly overrated. Walking is to real exercise what vegetable food
is to animal; it satisfies the appetite, but the nourishment is not sufficiently concentrated
to be invigorating. It takes a man out-doors, and it uses his muscles, and therefore of course
it is good; but it is not the best kind of good. Walking, for walking's sake, becomes tedious.
We must not ignore the play-impulse in human nature, which, according to Schiller, is the foundation
of all Art. In female boarding-schools, teachers uniformly testify to the aversion of pupils
to the prescribed walk. Give them a sled, or a pair of skates, or a row-boat, or put them on
horseback, and they will protract the period of exercise till the teacher in turn grumbles.
Put them into a gymnasium, with an efficient teacher, and they will soon require restraint,
instead of urging.

Gymnastic exercises have two disadvantages: one, in being commonly performed under cover (though
this may sometimes prove an advantage as well); another, in requiring apparatus, and at first
a teacher. These apart, perhaps no other form of exercise is so universally invigorating. A
teacher is required, less for the sake of stimulus than of precaution. The tendency is almost
always to dare too much; and there is also need of a daily moderation in commencing exercises;
for the wise pupil will always prefer to supple his muscles by mild exercises and calisthenics,
before proceeding to harsher performances on the bars and ladders. With this precaution, strains
are easily avoided; even with this, the hand will sometimes blister and the body ache, but
perseverance will cure the one and Russia Salve the other; and the invigorated life in every
limb will give a perpetual charm to those seemingly aimless leaps and somersets. The feats
once learned, a private gymnasium can easily be constructed, of the simplest apparatus, and
so daily used; though nothing can wholly supply the stimulus afforded by a class in a public
institution, with a competent teacher. In summer, the whole thing can partially be dispensed
with; but we are really unable to imagine how any person gets through the winter happily without
a gymnasium.

For the favorite in-door exercise of dumb-bells we have little to say; they are not an enlivening
performance, nor do they task a variety of muscles,--while they are apt to strain and fatigue
them, if used with energy. Far better, for a solitary exercise, is the Indian club, a lineal
descendant of that antique one in whose handle rare medicaments were fabled to be concealed.
The modern one is simply a rounded club, weighing from four pounds upwards, according to the
strength of the pupil; grasping a pair of these by the handles, he learns a variety of exercises,
having always before him the feats of the marvellous Mr. Harrison, whose praise is in the "Spirit
of the Times," and whose portrait adorns the back of Dr. Trall's Gymnastics. By the latest
bulletins, that gentleman measured forty-two and a half inches round the chest, and employed
clubs weighing no less than forty-seven pounds.

It may seem to our non-resistant friends to be going rather far, if we should indulge our saints
in taking boxing lessons; yet it is not long since a New York clergyman saved his life in Broadway
by the judicious administration of a "cross-counter" or a "flying crook," and we have not heard
of his excommunication from the Church Militant. No doubt, a laudable aversion prevails, in
this country, to the English practices of pugilism; yet it must be remembered that sparring
is, by its very name, a "science of self-defence"; and if a gentleman wishes to know how to
hold a rude antagonist at bay, in any emergency, and keep out of an undignified scuffle, the
means are most easily afforded him by the art, which Pythagoras founded. Apart from this, boxing
exercises every muscle in the body, and gives a wonderful quickness to eye and hand. These
same remarks apply, though in a minor degree, to fencing also.

Billiards is a graceful game, and affords, in some respects, admirable training, but is hardly
to be classed among athletic exercises. Tenpins afford, perhaps, the most popular form of exercise
among us, and have become almost a national game, and a good one, too, so far as it goes. The
English game of bowls is less entertaining, and is, indeed, rather a sluggish sport, though
it has the merit of being played in the open air. The severer British sports, as tennis and
rackets, are scarcely more than names, to us Americans.

Passing now to outdoor exercises, (and no one should confine himself to in-door ones,) we hold
with the Thalesian school, and rank water first. Vishnu Sarma gives, in his apologues, the
characteristics of the fit place for a wise man to live in, and enumerates among its necessities
first "a Rajah" and then "a river." Democrats as we are, we can dispense with the first, but
not with the second. A square mile even of pond water is worth a year's schooling to any intelligent
boy. A boat is a kingdom. We personally own one,--a mere flat-bottomed "float," with a centre-board.
It has seen service,--it is eight years old,--has spent two winters under the ice, and been
fished in by boys every day for as many summers. It grew at last so hopelessly leaky, that
even the boys disdained it. It cost seven dollars originally, and we would not sell it to-day
for seventeen. To own the poorest boat is better than hiring the best. It is a link to Nature;
without a boat, one is so much the less a man.

Sailing is of course delicious; it is as good as flying to steer anything with wings of canvas,
whether one stand by the wheel of a clipper-ship, or by the clumsy stern-oar of a "gundalow."
But rowing has also its charms; and the Indian noiselessness of the paddle, beneath the fringing
branches of the Assabeth or Artichoke, puts one into Fairyland at once, and Hiawatha's cheemaun
becomes a possible possession. Rowing is peculiarly graceful and appropriate as a feminine
exercise, and any able-bodied girl can learn to handle one light oar at the first lesson, and
two at the second; this, at least, we demand of our own pupils.

Swimming has also a birdlike charm of motion. The novel element, the free action, the abated
drapery, give a sense of personal contact with Nature which nothing else so fully bestows.
No later triumph of existence is so fascinating, perhaps, as that in which the boy first wins
his panting way across the deep gulf that severs one green bank from another, (ten yards, perhaps,)
and feels himself thenceforward lord of the watery world. The Athenian phrase for a man who
knew nothing was, that he could "neither read nor swim." Yet there is a vast amount of this
ignorance; the majority of sailors, it is said, cannot swim a stroke; and in a late lake disaster,
many able-bodied men perished by drowning, in calm water, only half a mile from shore. At our
watering-places it is rare to see a swimmer venture out more than a rod or two, though this
proceeds partly from the fear of sharks,--as if sharks of the dangerous order were not far
more afraid of the rocks than the swimmers of being eaten. But the fact of the timidity is
unquestionable; and we were told by a certain clerical frequenter of a watering-place, himself
a robust swimmer, that he had never met but two companions who would venture boldly out with
him, both being ministers, and one a distinguished Ex-President of Brown University. We place
this fact to the credit of the bodies of our saints.

But space forbids us thus to descant on the details of all active exercises. Riding may be
left to the eulogies of Mr. N.P. Willis, and cricket to Mr. Lillywhite's "Guide." We will only
say, in passing, that it is pleasant to see the rapid spread of clubs for the latter game,
which a few years since was practised only by a few transplanted Englishmen and Scotchmen;
and it is pleasant also to observe the twin growth of our indigenous American game of base-ball,
whose briskness and unceasing activity are perhaps more congenial, after all, to our national
character, than the comparative deliberation of cricket. Football, bating its roughness, is
the most glorious of all games to those whose animal life is sufficiently vigorous to enjoy
it. Skating is just at present the fashion for ladies as well as gentlemen, and needs no apostle;
the open weather of the current winter has been unusually favorable for its practice, and it
is destined to become a permanent institution.

A word, in passing, on the literature of athletic exercises; it is too scanty to detain us
long. Five hundred books, it is estimated, have been written on the digestive organs, but we
shall not speak of half a dozen in connection with the muscular powers. The common Physiologies
recommend exercise in general terms, but seldom venture on details; unhappily, they are written,
for the most part, by men who have already lost their own health, and are therefore useful
as warnings rather than examples. The first real book of gymnastics printed in this country,
so far as we know, was the work of the veteran Salzmann, translated and published in Philadelphia,
in 1802, and sometimes to be met with in libraries,--an odd, desultory book, with many good
reasonings and suggestions, and quaint pictures of youths exercising in the old German costume.
Like Dr. Follen's gymnasium, at Cambridge, it was probably transplanted too early, and produced
no effect. Next came, in 1836, the book which is still, after twenty years, the standard, so
far as it goes,--Walker's "Manly Exercises,"--a thoroughly English book, and needing adaptation
to our habits, but full of manly vigor, and containing good and copious directions for skating,
swimming, boating, and horsemanship. The only later general treatise worth naming is Dr. Trall's
recently published "Family Gymnasium,"--a good book, yet not good enough. On gymnastics proper
it contains scarcely anything; and the essays on rowing, riding, and skating are so meagre,
that they might almost as well have been omitted, though that on swimming is excellent. The
main body of the book is devoted to the subject of calisthenics, and especially to Ling's system;
all this is valuable for its novelty, although we cannot imagine how a system so tediously
elaborate and so little interesting can ever be made very useful for American pupils. Miss
Beecher has an excellent essay on calisthenics, with very useful figures, at the end of her
"Physiology." And on proper gymnastic exercises there is a little book so full and admirable,
that it atones for the defects of all the others,--"Paul Preston's Gymnastics,"--nominally
a child's book, but so spirited and graphic, and entering so admirably into the whole extent
of the subject, that it ought to be reprinted and find ten thousand readers.

In our own remarks, we have purposely confined ourselves to those physical exercises which
partake most of the character of sports. Field-sports alone we have omitted, because these
are so often discussed by abler hands. Mechanical and horticultural labors lie out of our present
province. So do the walks and labors of the artist and the man of science. The out-door study
of natural history alone is a vast field, even yet very little entered upon. In how many American
towns or villages are to be found local collections of natural objects, such as every large
town in Europe affords, and without which the foundations of thorough knowledge cannot be laid?
We can scarcely point to any. We have innumerable fragmentary and aimless "Museums,"--collections
of South-Sea shells in inland villages, and of aboriginal remains in seaport towns,--mere curiosity-shops,
which no man confers any real benefit by collecting; while the most ignorant person may be
a true benefactor to science by forming a cabinet, however scanty, of the animal and vegetable
productions of his own township. We have often heard Professor Agassiz lament this waste of
energy, and we would urge upon all our readers to do their share to remedy the defect, while
they invigorate their bodies by the exercise which the effort will give, and the joyous open-air
life into which it will take them.

For, after all, the secret charm of all these sports and studies is simply this,--that they
bring us into more familiar intercourse with Nature. They give us that vitam sub divo in which
the Roman exulted,--those out-door days, which, say the Arabs, are not to be reckoned in the
length of life. Nay, to a true lover of the open air, night beneath its curtain is as beautiful
as day. We personally have camped out under a variety of auspices,--before a fire of pine logs
in the forests of Maine, beside a blaze of faya-boughs on the steep side of a foreign volcano,
and beside no fire at all, (except a possible one of Sharp's rifles,) in that domestic volcano,
Kansas; and every such remembrance is worth many nights of indoor slumber. We never found a
week in the year, nor an hour of day or night, which had not, in the open air, its own special
beauty. We will not say, with Reade's Australians, that the only use of a house is to sleep
in the lee of it; but there is method in even that madness. As for rain, it is chiefly formidable
indoors. Lord Bacon used to ride with uncovered head in a shower, and loved "to feel the spirit
of the universe upon his brow"; and we once knew an enthusiastic hydropathic physician who
loved to expose himself in thunder-storms at midnight, without a shred of earthly clothing
between himself and the atmosphere. Some prudent persons may possibly regard this as being
rather an extreme, while yet their own extreme of avoidance of every breath from heaven is
really the more extravagantly unreasonable of the two.

It is easy for the sentimentalist to say, "But if the object is, after all, the enjoyment of
Nature, why not go and enjoy her, without any collateral aim?" Because it is the universal
experience of man, that, if we have a collateral aim, we enjoy her far more. He knows not the
beauty of the universe, who has not learned the subtile mystery, that Nature loves to work
on us by indirections. Astronomers say, that, when observing with the naked eye, you see a
star less clearly by looking at it, than by looking at the next one. Margaret Fuller's fine
saying touches the same point,--"Nature will not be stared at." Go out merely to enjoy her,
and it seems a little tame, and you begin to suspect yourself of affectation. We know persons
who, after years of abstinence from athletic sports or the pursuits of the naturalist or artist,
have resumed them, simply in order to restore to the woods and the sunsets the zest of the
old fascination. Go out under pretence of shooting on the marshes or botanizing in the forests;
study entomology, that most fascinating, most neglected of all the branches of natural history;
go to paint a red maple-leaf in autumn, or watch a pickerel-line in winter; meet Nature on
the cricket ground or at the regatta; swim with her, ride with her, run with her, and she gladly
takes you back once more within the horizon of her magic, and your heart of manhood is born
again into more than the fresh happiness of the boy.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE DEAD.

  Pride that sat on the beautiful brow,
    Scorn that lay in the arching lips,
  Will of the oak-grain, where are ye now?
    I may dare to touch her finger-tips!
  Deep, flaming eyes, ye are shallow enough;
    The steadiest fire burns out at last.
  Throw back the shutters,--the sky is rough,
    And the winds are high,--but the night is past.

  Mother, I speak with the voice of a man;
    Death is between us,--I stoop no more;
  And yet so dim is each new-born plan,
    I am feebler than ever I was before,--
  Feebler than when the western hill
    Faded away with its sunset gold.
  Mother, your voice seemed dark and chill,
    And your words made my young heart very cold.

  You talked of fame,--but my thoughts would stray
    To the brook that laughed across the lane;
  And of hopes for me,--but your hand's light play
    On my brow was ice to my shrinking brain;
  And you called me your son, your only son,--
    But I felt your eye on my tortured heart
  To and fro, like a spider, run,
    On a quivering web;--'twas a cruel art!

  But crueller, crueller far, the art
    Of the low, quick laugh that Memory hears!
  Mother, I lay my head on your heart;
    Has it throbbed even once these fifty years?
  Throbbed even once, by some strange heat thawed?
    It would then have warmed to her, poor thing,
  Who echoed your laugh with a cry!--O God,
    When in my soul will it cease to ring?

  Starlike her eyes were,--but yours were blind;
    Sweet her red lips,--but yours were curled;
  Pure her young heart,--but yours,--ah, you find
    This, mother, is not the only world!
  She came,--bright gleam of the dawning day;
    She went,--pale dream of the winding-sheet.
  Mother, they come to me and say
    Your headstone will almost touch her feet!

  You are walking now in a strange, dim land:
    Tell me, has pride gone with you there?
  Does a frail white form before you stand,
    And tremble to earth, beneath your stare?
  No, no!--she is strong in her pureness now,
    And Love to Power no more defers.
  I fear the roses will never grow
    On your lonely grave as they do on hers!

  But now from those lips one last, sad touch,--
    Kiss it is not, and has never been;
  In my boyhood's sleep I dreamed of such,
    And shuddered,--they were so cold and thin!
  There,--now cover the cold, white face,
    Whiter and colder than statue stone!
  Mother, you have a resting-place;
    But I am weary, and all alone!

AARON BURR.[A]

[Footnote A: The Life and Times of Aaron Burr. By J. PARTON. New York: Mason, Brothers. 1857.]

The life of Aaron Burr is an admirable subject for a biographer. He belonged to a class of
men, rare in America, who are remarkable, not so much for their talents or their achievements,
as for their adventures and the vicissitudes of their fortunes. Europe has produced many such
men and women: political intriguers; royal favorites; adroit courtiers; adventurers who carried
their swords into every scene of danger; courtesans who controlled the affairs of states; persevering
schemers who haunted the purlieus of courts, plotted treason in garrets, and levied war in
fine ladies' boudoirs.

In countries where all the social and political action is concentrated around the throne, where
a pretty woman may decide the policy of a reign, a royal marriage plunge nations into war,
and the disgrace of a favorite cause the downfall of a party, such persons find an ample field
for the exercise of the arts upon which they depend for success. The history and romance of
Modern Europe are full of them; they crowd the pages of Macaulay and Scott. But the full sunlight
of our republican life leaves no lurking-place for the mere trickster. Doubtless, selfish purposes
influence our statesmen, as well as the statesmen of other countries; but such purposes cannot
be accomplished here by the means which effect them elsewhere. He who wishes to attract the
attention of a people must act publicly and with reference to practical matters; but the ear
of a monarch may be reached in private. Therefore there is a certain monotony in the lives
of most of our public men; they may be read in the life of one. It is, generally, a simple
story of a poor youth, who was born in humble station, and who, by painful effort in some useful
occupation, rose slowly to distinguished place,--who displayed high talents, and made an honorable
use of them. Aaron Burr, however, is an exception. His adventures, his striking relations with
the leading men of his time, his romantic enterprises, the crimes and the talents which have
been attributed to him, his sudden elevation, and his protracted and agonizing humiliation
have attached to his name a strange and peculiar interest. Mr. Parton has done a good service
in recalling a character which had well-nigh passed out of popular thought, though not entirely
out of popular recollection.

As to the manner in which this service has been performed, it is impossible to speak very highly.
The book has evidently cost its author great pains; it is filled with detail, and with considerable
gossip concerning the hero, which is piquant, and, if true, important. The style is meant to
be lively, and in some passages is pleasant enough; but it is marked with a flippancy, which,
after a few pages, becomes very disagreeable. It abounds with the slang usually confined to
sporting papers. According to the author, a civil man is "as civil as an orange," a well-dressed
man is "got up regardless of expense," and an unobserved action is done "on the sly." He affects
the intense, and, in his pages, newspapers "go rabid and foam personalities," are "ablaze with
victories" and "bristling with bulletins,"--the public is in a "delirium,"--the politicians
are "maddened,"--letters are written in "hot haste," and proclamations "sent flying." He appears
to be on terms of intimacy with historical personages such as few writers are fortunate enough
to be admitted to. He approves a remark of George II. and patronizingly exclaims, "Sensible
King!" He has occasion to mention John Adams, and salutes him thus: "Glorious, delightful,
honest John Adams! An American John Bull! The Comic Uncle of this exciting drama!" He then
calls him "a high-mettled game-cock," and says "he made a splendid show of fight."

Such little foibles and vanities might easily be pardoned, if the book had no more important
defects. It professes to explain portions of our history hitherto not perfectly understood,
and it contains many statements for the truth of which we must rely upon the good sense and
accuracy of the writer; yet it is full of errors, and often evinces a disposition to exaggeration
little calculated to produce confidence in its reliability.

Our space will not permit us to point out all the mistakes which Mr. Parton has made, and we
will mention only a few which attracted our attention upon the first perusal of his book. His
hero was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel when only twenty-one years of age, and the author says
that he was "the youngest man who held that rank in the Revolutionary army, or who has ever
held it in an army of the United States." Alexander Hamilton and Brockholst Livingston both
reached that rank at twenty years of age.--Mr. Parton tells us that Burr's rise in politics
was more "rapid than that of any other man who has played a conspicuous part in the affairs
of the United States"; and that "in four years after fairly entering the political arena, he
was advanced, first, to the highest honor of the bar, next, to a seat in the National Council,
and then, to a competition with Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Clinton, for the Presidency
itself." He could hardly have crowded more errors into a single paragraph. Burr never attained
the highest honor of the bar. His first appearance in politics was as a member of the Legislature
of New York, in 1784, when twenty-eight years old; five years after, he was appointed Attorney-General;
in 1791 he was elected to the Senate of the United States; and in 1801, at the age of forty-five,
seventeen years after he fairly entered public life, he became Vice-President. Hamilton was
a member of Congress at twenty-five, and at thirty-two was Secretary of the Treasury; Jefferson
wrote the great Declaration when only thirty-two years old; and the present Vice-President
is a much younger man than Burr was when he reached that station. The statement, that Burr
was the rival of Washington and Adams for the Presidency, is absurd. Under the Constitution,
at that time, each elector voted for two persons,--the candidate who received the greatest
number of votes (if a majority of the whole) being declared President, and the one having the
next highest number Vice-President. In 1792, at which time Burr received one vote in the Electoral
College, all the electors voted for Washington; consequently the vote for Burr, upon the strength
of which Mr. Parton makes his magnificent boast, was palpably for the Vice-Presidency. In 1796,
the Presidential candidates were Adams and Jefferson, for one or the other of whom every elector
voted,--the votes for Burr, in this instance thirty in number, being, as before, only for the
Vice-Presidency. Even in 1800, when the votes for Jefferson and Burr in the Electoral College
were equal, it is notorious that this equality was simply the result of their being supported
on the same ticket,--the former for the office of President, and the latter for that of Vice-President.
Mr. Parton says, that, in the House of Representatives, Burr would have been elected on the
first ballot, if a majority would have sufficed; and that Mr. Jefferson never received more
than fifty-one votes in a House of one hundred and six members. Had he taken the trouble to
examine Gales's "Annals of Congress" for 1799-1801, he would have found that the House consisted
of one hundred and four members, two seats being vacant; and that on the first ballot Jefferson
received fifty-five votes, a majority of six. We are several times told that Robert R. Livingston
was one of the framers of the Constitution. Mr. Livingston was not a member of the Constitutional
Convention; the only person of the name in that body was William Livingston, Governor of New
Jersey.--Mr. Parton comes into conflict with other writers upon matters affecting his hero,
as to which he would have done well if he had given his authority. Matthew L. Davis, Burr's
first biographer and intimate friend, says that Burr's grandfather was a German; Parton, speaking
of the family at the time of the birth of Burr's father, says that it was Puritan and had flourished
in New England for three generations. Mr. Parton makes Burr a witness of a dramatic interview
between Mrs. Arnold and Mrs. Prevost shortly after the discovery of Arnold's treason, the particulars
of which Davis says Burr obtained from the latter lady after she became his wife.--Our author
is not consistent in his own statements. Upon one page he describes Mrs. Prevost, about the
time of her marriage, as "the beautiful Mrs. Prevost"; a few pages farther on he says she was
"not beautiful, being past her prime." He informs us that it is the fashion to underrate Jefferson,
that the polite circles and writers of the country have never sympathized with him,--and in
the very same paragraph he remarks that "Thomas Jefferson has been for fifty years the victim
of incessant eulogy."

This carelessness in reciting facts is associated with a certain confusion of mind. Mr. Parton
does not appear to have the power of distinguishing between conflicting statements of the same
thing. He describes Hamilton as honest and generous, and then accuses him of malignity and
dishonorable intrigue. He says that Wilkinson, at that time a general in the United States
service, may have thought of hastening the dissolution of the Union "without being in any sense
a traitor." How an officer can meditate the destruction of a government which he has sworn
to protect, and not be in any sense of the word a traitor, will puzzle minds not educated in
what the author calls "the Burr school." But the most curious exhibition which Mr. Parton makes
of this mental and moral confusion occurs in a passage where he attempts to prove his assertion,
that "Burr has done the state some service, though they know it not." This service, of which
the state has continued so obstinately ignorant, consists mainly in having invented filibustering,
and in having brought duelling into disgrace by killing Hamilton. "That was a benefit," our
moralist gravely remarks concerning this last claim to gratitude. Certainly; just such a benefit
as Captain Kidd conferred upon the world; he brought piracy into disgrace by being hanged for
it. As to the invention of filibustering, we are hardly disposed to rank Burr with Fulton and
Morse for his valuable discovery; but perhaps the shades of Lopez and De Boulbon, and the living
"gray-eyed man of destiny," will worship him as the founder of their order.

It is impossible to define Mr. Parton's opinion of his hero. It is not very clear to himself.
He is inclined to admire him, and is quite sure that he has been harshly dealt with. In the
Preface he intimates that it is his purpose to exhibit Burr's good qualities,--for, as he says,
"it is the good in a man who goes astray that ought most to alarm and warn his fellow-men."
The converse of which proposition we suppose the author thinks equally true, and that it is
the evil in a man who does not go astray which ought most to delight and attract his fellow-men.
At the end of the volume Mr. Parton makes a summary of Burr's character,--says that he was
too good for a politician, and not great enough for a statesman,--that Nature meant him for
a schoolmaster,--that he was a useful Senator, an ideal Vice-President, and would have been
a good President,--and that, if his Mexican expedition had succeeded, he would have run a career
similar to that of Napoleon. We do not dare attack this extraordinary eulogy. To describe a
man as not great enough for a statesman, yet fitted to make a good President, as a natural-born
schoolmaster and at the same time a Napoleon, argues a boldness of conception which makes criticism
dangerous.

Mr. Parton occasionally assumes an air of impartiality, and mildly expresses his disapprobation
of Burr's vices; but in every instance where those vices were displayed he earnestly defends
him. In the contest with Jefferson, Parton insists that Burr acted honorably; in the duel with
Hamilton, Burr was the injured party; in his amours he was not a bad man; so that, although
we are told that Burr had faults, we look in vain for any exhibition of them. In the cases
where we have been accustomed to think that his passions led him into crime, he either displayed
the strictest virtue, or, at most, sinned in so gentlemanlike a manner, with so much kindness
and generosity, as hardly to sin at all.

There are three ways of writing a biography: one is, to make a simple narrative and leave the
reader to form his own opinion; another, to present the facts so as to illustrate the author's
conception of his hero's character; a third, and the most common way, to proceed like an advocate,
to suppress everything which can be suppressed, to sneer at everything which cannot be answered,
to put the most favorable construction upon all dubious matters, and to throw the strongest
light upon every fortunate circumstance. Mr. Parton has tried all three modes, and failed in
all. He is an unskilful delineator of character, a poor story-teller, and a worse advocate.
His book, despite its spasmodic style, lacks vigor. It indicates a want of firmness and precision
of thought. It leaves a mixed impression on the mind. We venture to say, that two thirds of
its readers will close the volume with an indefinite contradictory opinion that Burr was a
sort of villanous saint, and that the other third, by no means the most inattentive readers,
will not be able to form any opinion whatever.

There are four periods or events in the life of Burr which are worthy of attention: his career
in the army; his political course and contest with Jefferson; the duel; and the Mexican expedition.
Upon the first and most pleasing portion of his life we cannot dwell. He entered the service
shortly after the battle of Bunker Hill, and in two years rose to a Lieutenant-Colonelcy. Though
engaged in several important battles, he did not have an opportunity to display great military
talents, if he possessed them. He was distinguished, but not more so than many other young
men. He resigned in the spring of 1779,--as he alleged, on account of ill health, but more
probably because the failure of the Lee and Conway intrigue had disappointed his hopes of promotion.

As an indication of character, the most important circumstance of Burr's military life was
his quarrel with Washington. This difficulty is said to have grown out of some scandalous affair
in which Burr was engaged, a belief which is strengthened by his intrigue with the beautiful
and unfortunate Margaret Moncrieffe a few months after. But aside from any such cause, there
was ground enough for difference in the characters of the two men. Discipline compelled Washington
to hold his subordinates at a distance of implied, if not asserted inferiority; and Burr never
met a man to whom he thought himself inferior. Mr. Parton's explanation is, that "Hamilton
probably implanted a dislike for Burr in Washington's breast." The only difficulty with this
theory is one which the author's suppositions often encounter,--it has no foundation in fact.
At the time that Burr was in Washington's family, Hamilton was probably not acquainted with
the General; he did not enter his staff until nine months after Burr had left it.

Burr entered public life at the only period in our history when a man of his stamp of mind
could have played a conspicuous part. At the close of the Revolution, in addition to the Tories,
there were already two political factions in New York. As early as 1777 the Whigs had divided
upon the election for Governor, and George Clinton was chosen over Philip Schuyler. The division
then created continued after the peace, but the differences were, at first, purely personal.
Schuyler was the leader of a party made up of a few great families, most prominent among which
were the Van Rensselaers and Livingstons. The Van Rensselaers have never been particularly
distinguished except as the possessors of a great estate; the Livingstons, on the other hand,
second only to the great Dutch family in wealth, far surpassed them in political power and
reputation. The Van Rensselaers and Schuylers were connected with the Livingstons by marriage;
and this powerful association, made more powerful by the banishment of the wealthy inhabitants
of New York city and Long Island, was still further strengthened by the connection with it
of Alexander Hamilton, who married a daughter of Philip Schuyler, and John Jay, who married
a daughter of William Livingston. The Schuyler faction excited that opposition which wealth
and social and political influence always excite. A party arose which was composed of men of
every condition and shade of opinion,--those who were galled by the exclusiveness of the aristocracy,--those
who had joined the opposition to Washington,--the young men who had made their reputation during
the war and were eager for professional and political promotion,--and all those who were converts
to the new doctrines of government which the dispute with England had originated. At the head
of these was George Clinton. Though a man of liberal education, and trained to a liberal profession,
he had not the showy and attractive accomplishments which distinguished his rivals; but he
possessed in an extraordinary degree those more sturdy qualities of mind and character which,
in a country where distinction is in the gift of the people, are always generously rewarded.
He had great aptitude for business, a clear and rapid judgment, and high physical and moral
courage. He was faithful to his friends, and though an unyielding, he was a magnanimous foe.
At a time when politics were looked upon almost wholly as the means of personal and family
aggrandizement, and the motives of party conduct such as flow from the passions of men, he,
more than any of his opponents, adhered to a consistent and not illiberal theory of public action.

At the outset of his political career, Burr acted upon the policy which always governed him.
He attached himself closely to neither party. When the political issues grew broader, he was
careful not to connect himself with any measure. He did not heartily oppose the abolition of
the Tory disabilities, nor the adoption of the Constitution. He was a Clintonian, but not so
decidedly as to prevent him from attempting to defeat Clinton. With a few adherents, he stood
between the two parties and maintained a position where he could avail himself of any overtures
which might be made to him; yet he was careful to be so far identified with one side as to
be able to claim some political association whenever it became necessary to do so. His success
in this artful course was remarkable. Nominally a Clintonian, in 1789 he supported Yates, and
a few months afterwards took office under Clinton. In 1791, while holding a place under a Republican
governor, he persuaded a Federal legislature to send him to the Senate of the United States.
In the Senate he sided with the opposition, but so moderately that some Federalists were willing
to support him for Governor. The Republicans nominated him for the Vice-Presidency, and shortly
after, the Federalists in Congress, almost in a body, voted for him for the Presidency. During
all this time, his name was not associated with any important measure except a fraudulent banking-scheme
in New York.

The occasion of his elevation to the Vice-Presidency is a perfect illustration of the accidental
circumstances and unimportant services to which he was generally indebted for advancement.
From the commencement of the Presidential canvass of 1800, it was evident that the action of
New York would control the election. That State then had twelve votes in the Electoral College;
but the electors were chosen by the Legislature,--not, as at present, by the people. The parties
in New York were nearly equal, and the result in the Legislature was very doubtful. The city
of New York sent twelve members to the Assembly, and usually determined the political complexion
of that body. Thus the contest in the nation was narrowed down to a single city, and that not
a large one. This gave Burr a favorable field for the exercise of his peculiar talents. His
energy, tact, unscrupulousness, and art in conciliating the hostile and animating the indifferent
made him unequalled in political finesse. He did not hesitate to use any means in his power.
Some one in his pay overheard the discussion in a Federal caucus, and revealed to him the plans
of his opponents. He had become unpopular, and had brought odium upon his party by a corrupt
speculation; he therefore declined presenting his own name, and made a ticket comprehending
the most distinguished persons in the Republican ranks. George Clinton, Gen. Gates, and Brockholst
Livingston were placed at the head of it. The most urgent solicitations were necessary to persuade
these gentlemen to consent to a nomination for places which were beneath their pretensions,
but Burr answered every objection and overcame every scruple. The respectability of the candidates
and the vigorous prosecution of the canvass carried the city by a considerable majority, and
insured the election of Mr. Jefferson. Mr. Parton finds in this abundant material for extravagant
eulogy of Burr. But most people will be surprised to learn that such services constituted a
claim to the Vice-Presidency. If being an adroit politician entitles a person to high office,
there is not a town in New York which cannot furnish half a dozen statesmen whose exploits
have been far more remarkable than Burr's.

Burr's nomination, however, was not solely due to his labors at this election, but in part
also to his subsequent address. The importance of New York made it desirable to select the
candidate for the Vice-Presidency from that State. A caucus of the Republican members of Congress
directed Mr. Gallatin to ascertain who would be the most acceptable candidate. He wrote to
Commodore Nicholson, asking him to discover the sentiments of the leading men in the State.
The names of Livingston, George Clinton, and Burr had been suggested. Livingston was deaf,
and Nicholson is said to have determined to recommend Clinton. Burr, however, saw him afterwards,
and persuaded him to substitute his name instead of Clinton's in the letter which he had prepared
to send to Philadelphia. Col. Burr was accordingly placed upon the Republican ticket.

The tie vote between Jefferson and Burr, which unexpectedly occurred in the Electoral College,
has given rise to the assertion that Burr endeavored to defeat Jefferson and secure his own
election. Mr. Parton devotes a chapter to the refutation of this charge, but does not succeed
in making a very strong argument. The evidence of Burr's treachery, is as positive as from
the nature of the case it can be. Of course, he made no open pledges; it was unnecessary, and
it would have been impolitic to do so. The main fact cannot be denied, that for several weeks
before and after the election went to the House of Representatives, Burr was openly supported
by the Federalists in opposition to Jefferson. Burr knew it; everybody knew it. Why was this
support given? It will require plain proof to satisfy any one who is familiar with the motives
of political action, that a party would have so earnestly advocated the election of any man
without good reason to suppose that he would make an adequate return for its support. There
was but one course which Burr, in honor, could take; he should have peremptorily refused to
permit his name to be used. A word from him would have ended the matter; but that word was
not spoken. The evidence on the other side consists of some statements made several years after,
by parties concerned, which are by no means so direct and unequivocal as might be wished,--and
of a series of depositions taken in some lawsuits instituted by Col. Burr to investigate the
truth of this charge. One circumstance, which seems to have escaped the notice of our biographer,
casts suspicion upon all these documents. Burr applied to Samuel Smith, a United States Senator
from Maryland, for his testimony. It is not worth while to discuss a defence which was made
out by forgery.

His election to the Vice-Presidency terminated Burr's official career. He was deserted by his
party, and denounced by the Republican press. Burning with resentment, he turned upon his enemies,
and, supported by the Federalists, became a candidate for the Governorship of New York, in
opposition to the Republican nominee. Hamilton, who alone among the Federal statesmen had openly
opposed Burr during the contest for the Presidency, again separated from his party, and earnestly
denounced him. Burr was defeated by an enormous majority. His disappointment and anger at being
again foiled by Hamilton prompted him to the most notorious and unfortunate act of his life.

In speaking of his duel with Gen. Hamilton, we do not intend to judge Col. Burr's conduct by
the rules by which a more enlightened public opinion now judges the duellist. He and his adversary
acted according to the custom of their time; by that standard let them be measured. Mr. Parton
thinks that the challenge was as "near an approach to a reasonable and inevitable action as
an action can be which is intrinsically wrong and absurd." By this we understand him to say
that the course of Col. Burr was in accordance with the etiquette which then governed men of
the world in such affairs. We think differently.

During the election for Governor, Dr. Cooper, of Albany, heard Hamilton declare that he was
opposed to Burr, and made a public statement to that effect. Gen. Schuyler denied the truth
of this assertion, which Dr. Cooper then reiterated in a published letter, saying that Hamilton
and Judge Kent had both characterized Burr as "a dangerous man, and one who ought not to be
trusted with the reins of government," and that "he could detail a still more despicable opinion
which Gen. Hamilton had expressed of Mr. Burr." Nearly two months after this letter was written,
Burr addressed a note to Hamilton asking for an unqualified acknowledgment or denial of the
use of any expression which would justify Dr. Cooper's assertion. The dispute turned upon the
words "more despicable," and as to them there obviously were many difficulties. Cooper thought
that the expression, "a dangerous man and one who ought not to be trusted with the reins of
government," conveyed a despicable opinion; but many persons might think that such language
did not go beyond the reasonable limits of political animadversion. Burr himself made no objection
to that particular phrase; he did not allude to it except by way of explanation. The use of
such language was common. In his celebrated attack upon John Adams, Hamilton had spoken of
Mr. Jefferson as an "ineligible and dangerous candidate." The same words had been publicly
applied to Burr himself, two years before. He did not see anything despicable in the opinion
then expressed. A man may be unfit for office from lack of capacity, and dangerous on account
of his principles. The most rigid construction of the Code of Honor has never compelled a person
to fight every fool whom he thought unworthy of public station, and every demagogue whose views
he considered unsound. If Dr. Cooper, then, was able to discover a despicable opinion where
most people could find none, might he not have seen what he called a more despicable opinion
in some remark equally innocent? Burr did not ask what were the precise terms of the remark
to which Cooper alluded; he demanded that Hamilton should disavow Cooper's construction of
that expression. He took offence, not at what had been said, but at the inference which another
had drawn from what had been said. The justification of such an inference devolved upon Cooper,
not Hamilton,--who by no rule of courtesy could be interrogated as to the justice of another's
opinions. These difficulties presented themselves to the mind of Hamilton. He stated them in
his reply, declared that he was ready to answer for any precise or definite opinion which he
had expressed, but refused to explain the import which others had placed upon his language.
Unfortunately, the last line of his note contained an intimation that he expected a challenge.
Burr rudely retorted, reiterating his demand in most insolent terms. The correspondence then
passed into the hands of Nathaniel Pendleton on the part of Hamilton, and William P. Van Ness,
a man of peculiar malignity of character, upon the part of Burr. The responsibility of his
position weighing upon Hamilton's mind, before the final step was taken, he voluntarily stated
that the conversation with Dr. Cooper "related exclusively to political topics, and did not
attribute to Burr any instance of dishonorable conduct," and again offered to explain any specific
remark. This generous, unusual, and, according to strict etiquette, unwarranted proposition
removed at once Burr's cause of complaint. Had he been disposed to an honorable accommodation,
he would have received Hamilton's proposal in the spirit in which it was made. But, embarrassed
by this liberal offer, he at once changed his ground, abandoned Cooper's remark, which had
previously been the sole subject of discussion, and peremptorily insisted that Gen. Hamilton
should deny ever having made remarks from which inferences derogatory to him could fairly have
been drawn. This demand was plainly unjustifiable. No person would answer such an interrogatory.
It showed that Burr's desire was, not to satisfy his honor, but to goad his adversary to the
field. It establishes the general charge, which Parton virtually admits, that it was not passion
excited by a recent insult which impelled him to revenge, but hatred engendered during years
of rivalry and stimulated by his late defeat. Burr must long have known Hamilton's feelings
towards him. Those feelings had been freely expressed; and Burr's letters discover that he
was fully aware of the distrust and hostility with which he was regarded by his political associates
and opponents. A man has no claim to satisfaction for an insult given years ago. The entire
theory of the duello makes it impossible for one to ask redress for an injury which he has
long permitted to go unredressed. The question being, not whether the practice of duelling
is wrong, but whether Burr was wrong according to that practice, we have no difficulty in concluding
that the challenge was given upon vague and unjustifiable grounds, and that Gen. Hamilton would
have been excusable, if he had refused to meet him.

It may be said, that, if Hamilton accepted an improper challenge, he should receive the same
condemnation as the one who gave it. But, even on general grounds, some qualification should
be made in favor of the challenged party. His is a different position from that of the challenger.
A sensitive man, though he think that he is improperly questioned, may have some delicacy about
making his own judgment the rule of another's conduct. Besides, there were many considerations
peculiar to this case. The menacing tone of Burr's first note made it evident that he meant
to force the quarrel to a bloody issue. Hamilton, jealous of his reputation for courage, could
not run the risk of appearing anxious to avoid a danger so apparent. Moreover, he was conscious,
that, during his life, he had said many things which might give Burr cause for offence, and
he was unwilling to avail himself of a technical, though reasonable objection, to escape the
consequences of his own remarks. Neither could he apologize for what he still thought was true.
These considerations were doubly powerful with Hamilton. His early manhood had been passed
in camps; his early fame had been won in the profession of arms. He was a man of the world.
He had never discountenanced duelling; he himself had been engaged in the affair between Laurens
and Lee; and a few years before, his own son had fallen in a duel. Neither his education nor
his professions nor his practice could excuse him. It was too late to take shelter behind his
general disapproval of a custom which was recognized by his professional brethren and had been
countenanced by himself. It is true that he would have shown a higher courage by braving an
ignorant and brutal public opinion, but it would be unjust to censure him for not showing a
degree of courage which no man of his day displayed. He and Burr are to be measured by their
own standard, not by ours; and tried by that test, it is easy to see a difference between one
who accepts and one who sends an unjustifiable challenge; it is the difference which exists
between an error and a crime.

There was an interval of two weeks between the message and the meeting. This was required by
Hamilton to finish some important law business. When he went to White Plains to try causes,
he was in the habit of staying at a friend's house. The last time he visited there, a few days
before his death, he said, upon leaving, "I shall probably never come here again." During this
period he invited Col. Wm. Smith, and his wife, who was the only daughter of John Adams, to
dine with him. Some rare old Madeira which had been given to him was produced on this occasion,
and it was afterwards thought that it was his intention by this slight act to express his desire
to bury all personal differences between Mr. Adams and himself. These, and various other little
incidents, show that he felt his death to be certain; yet all his business in court and out
was marked by his ordinary clearness and ability, all his intercourse with his family and friends
by his usual sweetness and cheerfulness of disposition.

On the Fourth of July, Hamilton and Burr met at the annual banquet of the Society of Cincinnati.
Hamilton presided. No one was afterwards able to remember that his manner gave any indication
of the dreadful event which was so near at hand. He joined freely in the conversation and badinage
of such occasions, and towards the close of the feast sang a song,--the only one he knew,--the
ballad of the Drum. But many remembered that Burr was silent and moody. He did not look towards
Hamilton until he began to sing, when he fixed his eyes upon him and gazed intently at him
until the song was ended.

Hamilton was living at the Grange, his country-seat, near Manhattanville. The place is still
unchanged. His office was in a small house on Cedar Street, where he likewise found lodgings
when necessary. The night previous to the duel was passed there. We have been told by an aged
citizen of New York, that Hamilton was seen long after midnight walking to and fro in front
of the house.

During these last hours both parties wrote a few farewell lines. In no act of their lives does
the difference in the characters of Hamilton and Burr show itself so distinctly as in these
parting letters. Hamilton was oppressed by the difficulties and responsibilities of his situation.
His duty to his creditors and his family forbade him rashly to expose a life which was so valuable
to them; his duty to his country forbade him to leave so evil an example; he was not conscious
of ill-will towards Col. Burr; and his nature revolted at the thought of destroying human life
in a private quarrel. These thoughts, and the considerations of pride and ambition which nevertheless
controlled him, are beautifully expressed in language which is full of pathos and manly dignity.
He had made his will the day before. He was distressed lest his estate should prove insufficient
to pay his debts, and, after committing their mother to the filial protection of his children,
he besought them, as his last request, to vindicate his memory by making up any deficiency
which might occur. Burr's letters to Theodosia and her husband are mainly occupied with directions
as to the disposal of his property and papers. The tone of them does not differ greatly from
that of his ordinary correspondence. They do not contain a word such as an affectionate father
or a patriotic citizen would have written at such a time. They do not express a sentiment such
as a generous and thoughtful man would naturally feel on the eve of so momentous an occurrence.
There are no misgivings as to the propriety of his conduct, nor a whisper of regret at the
unfortunate circumstances which, as he professed to think, compelled him to seek another's blood.

The combatants met on the 11th of July, 1804, at a place beneath the heights of Weehawken,
upon the New Jersey side of the Hudson,--the usual resort, at that time, for such encounters.
Burr fired the moment the word was given, raising his arm deliberately and taking aim. The
ball struck Hamilton on the side, and, as he reeled under the blow, his pistol was discharged
into the air. "I should have shot him through the heart," said Burr, afterwards, "but, at the
moment I was about to fire, my aim was confused by a vapor." Burr stepped forward with a gesture
of regret, when he saw his adversary fall; but his second hurried him from the field, screening
him with an umbrella from the recognition of the surgeon and bargemen.

Hamilton was carried to the house of Mr. Bayard, in the suburbs of the city. The news flew
through the town, producing intense excitement. Bulletins were posted at the Tontine, and changed
with every new report. Crowds soon gathered around Mr. Bayard's house, and in the grounds.
So deep was the feeling, that visitors were permitted to pass one by one through the room where
Gen. Hamilton was lying. From the first, there was no hope of his recovery. This opinion of
the most eminent surgeons in the city was concurred in by the surgeons of two French frigates
in the harbor, who were consulted. Gen. Hamilton was a man of slight frame, and a disorder,
from which he had recently suffered, prevented the use of the ordinary remedies. He retained
his composure to the last; nor was his fortitude disturbed until his seven children approached
his bedside. He gave them one look, and, closing his eyes, did not open them again while they
remained in the room. He expired at two o'clock on the day after the duel.

He was not the only victim. His oldest daughter, a girl of twenty, whose education he had carefully
directed, and whose musical talents gave him great pleasure, never recovered from the shock
of her father's death. In her disordered fancy, she visited by night the fatal ground at Weehawken,
and told her friends that she crossed the river and returned before morning. Her mind soon
gave way entirely; and only last spring death released her from a total, though gentle insanity
of fifty years' duration.

The sudden and tragic death of Alexander Hamilton produced a universal feeling of sympathy
and sorrow. As the leader of the bar, the advocate of the Constitution, the statesman who had
given the law to American commerce, the most accomplished soldier in the army, and connected
with the still recent glories of the Revolution,--his name had become familiar to every ear,
and was associated with every subject of popular interest. His career was, in all respects,
an extraordinary one. He came here a stranger, without fortune or powerful family connections.
While yet a school-boy, he had borne a creditable part in the discussion of public affairs.
At an age when the ambition of most young soldiers is satisfied, if, by the performance of
their ordinary duties as subalterns, they have attracted the regard of their superiors, he
was in a position of responsibility, and occupied with the most serious and complicated matters
of war. He was one of the youngest and at the same time one of the most influential members
of the Constitutional Convention. To this distinction in affairs and arms he added equal distinction
at the bar. It will be difficult to find in our history, or in that of England, an instance
of such eminence in three departments of action so distinct and dissimilar. Although it may
he said of Hamilton, that he had not the intuitive perception, which Jefferson possessed, of
the necessities imposed upon the country by its anomalous condition, yet, as a statesman under
an established government, he was surpassed by no man of his generation. His talents were of
the kind which most attracts the sympathies and impresses the understandings of others. He
was a grave man, occupied with business affairs, but not unequal to occasions which required
the display of taste and eloquence. His solid qualities of mind inspired universal confidence
in the soundness of his views upon all questions which were not the subject of political dispute.
There were many plain Republicans of that day who were firmly attached to the principles which
Jefferson advocated, but who thought that Jefferson was a dreamer and an enthusiast, and that
Hamilton was a far safer man in the ordinary affairs of government.

The grief which the death of Hamilton caused in the nation reacted upon Burr; and when the
correspondence was published, a storm of condemnation burst upon him. Indictments were found
against him in New York and New Jersey. In every pulpit, upon every platform, where the virtues
and services of Hamilton were celebrated, the features of his malignant foe were displayed
in dramatic contrast. He was compared to Richard III. and Catiline, to Saul, and to the wretch
who fired the temple of Diana. This feeling was not confined to orators and clergymen, nor
to this country. It reached other communities, and was shared by men of the world like Talleyrand,
and retired students like Jeremy Bentham. The former, a few years before his death, related
to an American gentleman, that Burr, on his arrival in Paris, in 1810, sent to him and requested
an interview. The French statesman could not well refuse to receive an American of such distinction,
with whom he was personally acquainted, and by whom he had formerly been hospitably entertained,
and told the gentleman who brought the message,--"Say to Col. Burr, that I will receive him
to-morrow; but tell him also, that Gen. Hamilton's likeness always hangs over my mantel." Burr
did not call upon him. Talleyrand directed that after his death the miniature should be sent
to Hamilton's descendants, with some newspaper scraps relating to him, which he had thrust
into the lining. When Burr was in England, he became intimate with Bentham. The latter, in
his "Memoirs and Correspondence," makes a brief allusion to the acquaintance, in which the
following passage occurs: "Burr gave me an account of his duel with Hamilton. He was sure of
being able to kill him: so I thought it little better than a murder."

Previously to his retirement from the Vice-Presidency, in March, 1805, Burr had formed the
design of seeking a home in the Southwest. Little more than a year before, Louisiana had been
annexed, and then offered a wide field to an ambitious man. Encouraged by some acquaintances,
he projected various political and financial speculations. In April, he repaired to Pittsburg,
and started upon a journey down the Ohio and the Mississippi. On the way, curiosity led him
to the house of Herman Blennerhassett, and he thus accidentally made the acquaintance of a
man whose name has become historic by its association with his own. Blennerhassett was an Irishman
by birth; he had inherited a considerable fortune, and was a man of education. Beguiled by
the belief that in the retirement of the American forests he would find the solitude most congenial
to the pursuit of his favorite studies, he purchased an island in the Ohio River near the mouth
of the Little Kanawha. He expended most of his property in building a house and adorning his
grounds. The house was a plain wooden structure; and the shrubbery, in its best estate, could
hardly have excited the envy of Shenstone. Men of strong character are not dependent upon certain
conditions of climate and quiet for the ability to accomplish their purposes. But Blennerhassett
was not a man of strong character; neither was he an exception to this rule. He was, at the
best, but an idle student; and his zeal for science never carried him beyond a little desultory
study of Astronomy and Botany and some absurd experiments in Chemistry. His figure was awkward,
his manners were ungracious, and he was so near-sighted that he used to take a servant hunting
with him, to show him the game. His credulity and want of worldly knowledge exposed him to
the practices of the shrewd frontiers-men among whom he lived. He soon became involved in debt,
and at the time of Burr's visit his situation made him a ready volunteer for any enterprise
which promised to repair his shattered fortunes. That the enterprise was impracticable, and
that he was unfit for it, only made it more attractive to his imaginative and simple mind.
The fancy of Wirt has thrown a deceptive romance around the career of Blennerhassett, yet there
is enough of truth in the account of the misfortunes which Burr brought upon him and his amiable
wife to justify the sympathy with which they have been regarded.

Soon after his arrival at New Orleans Burr seems to have formed bolder designs. From this time
we find in his correspondence, and that of his friends, vague hints of some great undertaking.
This proved to be a project for an expedition against Mexico, and the establishment there of
an Empire which was to include the States west of the Alleghanies; subsidiary to this, and
connected with it, was a plan for the colonization of a large tract of land upon the Washita.

It is difficult to believe that a design so absurd can have been entertained by a man of common
sense; yet it is certain that it was seriously undertaken by Burr. His conduct in carrying
it out furnishes the best measure of his talents and a signal exhibition of his folly and his
vices. His high standing, his reputation as a soldier, attracted the vulgar, and brought him
into intercourse with the most intelligent people of the Territory. The fascination of his
manners, and the skill in the arts of intrigue which long discipline had given him, enabled
him to sustain the impression which the prestige of his name everywhere produced. The details
of his political conduct could not have been accurately known in a region so remote. The affair
with Hamilton had not injured his reputation in communities where such affairs were common
and often applauded. The circumstances of the time, to his superficial glance, seemed to be
encouraging. A large portion of the country had lately passed under our flag;--many of the
inhabitants spoke a foreign language, and retained foreign customs and predilections;--the
American settlers were an adventurous race, and eager for an opportunity to indulge their martial
spirit;--Mexico was uneasy under the Spanish yoke;--and some indications of a war between the
United States and Spain held out a faint hope that the initiatory steps of his enterprise might
be taken with the connivance of the government. To recruit an army among the hardy citizens
of Kentucky and Tennessee, to excite the jealousies of the French in Louisiana, to subdue feeble
and demoralized Mexico, and create a new and stable empire, did not appear difficult to the
sanguine imagination of a man who was without means or powerful friends, and who at no time
had sufficient confidence in those with whom he was engaged to fully inform them of his plans.
But he pursued his purposes with a tenacity which leaves no doubt of his sincerity, and an
audacity and unscrupulousness seldom equalled. A few whom he thought it safe to trust were
admitted to his secrets. Upon those in whom he did not dare to confide he practised every species
of deception. He told some, that his intentions were approved by the government,--others, that
his expedition was against Mexico only, and that he was sure of foreign aid. He represented
to the honest, that he had bought lands, and wished to form a colony and institute a new and
better order of society; the ignorant were deluded with a fanciful tale of Southern conquest,
and a magnificent empire, of which he was to be king, and Theodosia queen after his death.
So thoroughly was this deception carried out, that it is difficult to determine who were actually
engaged with him. Without doubt, many acceded to his plans only because they did not knew what
his plans really were. He made rapid journeys from New Orleans to Natchez, Nashville, Lexington,
Louisville, and St. Louis. In the winter of 1805 he returned to Washington, and in the following
summer again went down the Ohio. Wherever he went, he threw out complaints against the government,--charged
it with imbecility,--boasted that with two hundred men he could drive the President and Congress
into the Potomac,--freely prophesied a dissolution of the Union, and published in the local
journals articles pointing out the advantages which would result from a separation of the Western
from the Eastern States. Gen. Eaton had been denounced in Congress, and had a claim against
the government; Burr tempted him with an opportunity to redress his wrongs and satisfy his
claim. Commodore Truxton had been struck from the Navy list; he offered him a high command
in the Mexican navy. He took every occasion to flatter the vanity of the people; attended militia
parades, and praised the troops for their discipline and martial bearing. Large donations of
land were freely promised to recruits; men were enlisted; Blennerhassett's Island was made
the rendezvous; and provisions were gathered there.

At length his movements began to cause some anxiety to the public officers. The United States
District Attorney attempted to indict him at Frankfort, Kentucky, but the grand-jury refused
to find a bill. Henry Clay defended him in these proceedings, and in reference to his connection
with the case, Mr. Parton makes a characteristic display of the spirit in which his book is
written, and of his unfitness for the ambitious task he has undertaken. He quotes the following
passage from Collins's "Historical Sketches of Kentucky":--"Before Mr. Clay took any active
part as the counsel of Burr, he required of him an explicit disavowal, [avowal,] upon his honor,
that he was engaged in no design contrary to the laws and peace of the country. This pledge
was promptly given by Burr, in language the most broad, comprehensive, and particular. He had
no design, he said, to intermeddle with or disturb the tranquillity of the United States, nor
its territories, nor any part of them. He had neither issued nor signed nor promised a commission
to any person for any purpose. He did not own a single musket, nor bayonet, nor any single
article of military stores,--nor did any other person for him, by his authority or knowledge.
His views had been explained to several distinguished members of the administration, were well
understood and approved by the government. They were such as every man of honor and every good
citizen must approve." Upon this paragraph Mr. Parton makes the following extraordinary comments:--"Mr.
Clay, there is reason to believe, went to his grave in the belief that each of these assertions
was an unmitigated falsehood, and the writer of the above adduces them merely as remarkable
instances of cool, impudent lying. On the contrary, with one exception, all of Burr's allegations
were strictly true; and even that one was true in a Burrian sense. He did not own any arms
or military stores: by the terms of his engagement with his recruits, every man was to join
him armed, just as every backwoodsman was armed whenever he went from home. He had not issued
nor promised any commissions: the time had not come for that. Jefferson and his cabinet undoubtedly
knew his views and intentions, up to the point where they ceased to be lawful."

To this miserable tissue of sophistry and misrepresentation the only reply we have to make
is, that Burr's statements were the unmitigated falsehoods which Henry Clay believed them to
be. For at that very time stores were collected on Blennerhassett's Island; other persons were
bringing arms for Burr's service and with his knowledge; the winter previous he had offered
commissions to Eaton and Truxton; and a month before this statement was made, his agent had
arrived at Wilkinson's camp with the direct proposition to that officer, that he should attack
the Spaniards, hurry his country into a war, and enter upon a career of conquest which was
to result in dismembering the Union. And yet Burr solemnly declared upon his honor that he
was engaged in no design "contrary to the laws and peace of the country," and that "his views
were such as every man of honor and every good citizen must approve,"--and Parton says these
averments were true. We have no wish to deal harshly with this writer; but such an impudent
defence of a palpable falsehood is a disgrace to American letters.

Every well-informed person knows the miserable issue of this ill-contrived conspiracy. The
only emotion which it now excites in the student is wonder that the thought of it could ever
have entered a sane mind. A wilder or more chimerical scheme never disturbed the dreams of
a schoolboy; yet no one has ever pressed a reasonable undertaking with more earnestness and
confidence than Burr his visionary purpose. He exhibited, throughout, an infatuation and a
degree of incompetency for great achievements, which would cover the enterprise with ridicule,
were it not for the misfortunes which it brought upon himself and others.

We do not desire to linger over the last period of Burr's life. His deadliest foe could not
have wished for him so terrible a punishment as that which afflicted his long and ignominious
old age.

In 1808 he went to Europe to obtain aid for his Mexican expedition. While in England, he made
another display of his adroitness and boldness in falsehood. The English government became
suspicious of him; whereupon he had the hardihood to claim, that, although he had borne arms
against Great Britain and had held office in an independent state, he was still a British subject.
Mr. Parton says, that this "was an amusing instance of Burr's lawyerlike audacity." Less partial
judges will probably find a harsher term to apply to it.

After his return to this country, Burr resumed his profession in New York, but never regained
his former position at the bar. The standard of legal acquirements was higher than it had been
in his youth, and the obloquy which rested upon him excluded him from the respectable departments
of practice. During all this time, by far the longest period of his professional life, he never
displayed any signal ability. His society was shunned,--or sought only by a few personal admirers,
or by the profligate and the curious. When seventy-eight years of age, he wheedled Madame Jumel,
an eccentric and wealthy widow, into a marriage. On the bridal trip he obtained possession
of some of her property, and squandered it in an idle speculation. A continuance of such practices
led to a separation, and his wife afterwards made application for a divorce, upon a charge
which Mr. Parton says is now known to have been false, but which we have reason to believe
was true, and which was so disgusting that we cannot even hint at it.

It is our duty to notice one chapter in this book, which, more than anything else it contains,
has given it notoriety. We refer to its defence of, or, to speak more mildly, its apology for,
Burr's libertinism. All the faults of the author which we have had occasion to notice, examples
of which are scattered through the volume, are concentrated in these few pages,--his inconsistency,
his inaccuracy, his disposition to draw inferences from facts which they directly contradict,
and to rely on evidence which has nothing to do with the case in hand. He argues at great length
upon the assumption, that Burr's correspondence with women was unfit for publication, and then,
in contradiction to Burr's own positive declaration, asserts that there were "no letters necessarily
criminating ladies." To prove this, he publishes two letters, one of which is an apology, written
by Burr in his seventy-fourth year, for having addressed a young woman in an improper manner,
and the other is a letter from a female, couched in language much warmer than an innocent woman
could use. Mr. Parton attacks Davis because that writer stated that Burr left his correspondence
to be disposed of by him, and eulogizes his hero because he ordered that the letters should
be burned. To establish this position, he quotes Burr's will, which directed Davis "to destroy,
or to deliver to all persons interested, such letters, as may, in his estimation, be calculated
to affect injuriously the feelings of individuals against whom I have no complaint,"--thus
giving Mr. Davis all the discretionary power with which he claims to have been invested, and
making him the judge as to what letters should be destroyed. We have no more space to expose
Mr. Parton's blunders and sophistry. The evidence of Burr's debauchery, of his heartless vanity,
of his utter disregard of the considerations which usually govern even the worst of men, does
not rest upon the admissions of Davis alone. Those who are familiar with a scandalous book
called the "Secret History of St. Domingo," which consists of a series of letters addressed
to Col. Burr by Madame D'Auvergne, will need no further illustration of his influence over
women, nor of the character of those with whom he was most intimately associated. The night
before his duel with Hamilton, he committed all the letters of his female correspondents to
the care and perusal of Theodosia, saying that she would "find in them something to amuse,
much to instruct, and more to forgive." When in Europe, he kept a journal in which he recorded
his various amorous adventures. This book, as published, is one which no gentleman would place
in the hands of a lady, and the editor tells us that the most improper portions of the diary
have been expurgated; yet this journal was written, not to amuse a scandal-loving public, not
for purposes of gain, but for the private perusal of Theodosia. What can be said of a man who
could expose the lascivious expressions of abandoned females and retail his own debaucheries
to a gentle and innocent woman, and that woman his own daughter? The mere statement beggars
invective. It shows a mind so depraved as to be unconscious of its depravity.

The character of Burr is not difficult to analyze. His life was consistent, and at the beginning
a wise man might have foretold the end. Our author complains that Burr's reputation has suffered
from the disposition to exaggerate his faults. This may be true; but it is likewise true that
he has been benefited by the same disposition to exaggeration. A character is more dramatic
which unites great talents with great vices, and therefore he has been represented both as
a worse and a greater man than he really was. Burr cannot be called great in any sense. His
successes, such as they were, never appear to have been obtained by high mental effort. He
has left not a single measure, no speech, no written discussion of the various important subjects
that came before him, to which one can point as an exhibition of superior talents. A certain
description of ability cannot be denied to him. He did well whatever could be done by address,
courage, and industry, joined to moderate talents. His chief power lay in the fascination of
personal intercourse. His countenance was pleasing, and illuminated by eyes of singular beauty
and vivacity; his bearing was lofty; his self-possession could not be disturbed; he had the
tact of a woman, and an intellect which was active and equal to all ordinary occasions. But
even in society his range was a narrow one, and he seems to have been successful mainly because
he avoided positive effort. It is usual to speak of him as a remarkable conversationalist;
but if by that term we mean to describe, a person who is distinguished for his eloquence, grace
of expression, information, force and originality of thought, Burr was not a good converser.
A distinguished gentleman, who, while young, was much noticed by Burr, being asked in what
his personal attraction consisted, replied, "In his manner of listening to you. He seemed to
give your thought so much value by the air with which he received it, and to find so much more
meaning in your words than you had intended. No flattery was equal to it." We think that this
anecdote reveals the entire power of the man. He was strong through the weakness of others,
rather than in his own strength. Therefore he was most attractive to young or inferior people.
He was not on terms of intimacy with any leading man of his time, unless it was Jeremy Bentham,
and the precise nature of their relations is not understood. The philosopher, who could not
then boast many disciples, was favorably disposed toward Burr, because the latter had ordered
a London bookseller to send him Bentham's works as fast as they were published. Upon acquaintance,
he must have been pleased with a gentleman with whom he could have had no cause for dispute,
who could supply him with information as to new and interesting forms of society and government,
and whose adventurous and romantic career differed so widely from his own life of study and
thought.

Burr's conduct in his various public situations affords a perfect measure of his abilities.
As a soldier, he was brave, a good disciplinarian, watchful of details, and an excellent executive
officer. At the head of a brigade he would have been useful; but he did not possess the foresight,
the breadth of mental vision, nor the magnetism of nature awakening the enthusiasm of armies,
which are necessary to a great commander. He was an adroit lawyer, an adept in the fence of
his profession, skilful to avail himself of the errors of an opponent, and to play upon the
foibles of judge or jury; but he had not the faculty for generalization and analysis, nor the
nice discrimination in the application of general principles to particular instances, which
must be combined in a great lawyer. He cannot by any figure of speech be called a statesman.
As a politician, he was one of the first to discover and one of the most skilful in the use
of those unworthy arts which have brought the pursuit of politics into disrepute; but we doubt
whether he could have succeeded upon the broader field of the present day. Perfectly competent
to manage a single city, he would have failed in an attempt to govern a party. His talents
were well defined by Jefferson, who spoke of him as a great man in little things, and a small
man in great things.

One of the qualities most frequently attributed to Burr is fortitude; upon this characteristic
his biographer frequently dwells. And indeed, when one reads of the misfortunes which came
upon him,--the disappointments which he encountered,--his poverty abroad,--his terrible afflictions,
and dreary old age,--and how gallantly he bore up under all,--unblenching, unmurmuring, struggling
cheerfully and patiently to the end,--one cannot repress a feeling of admiration for the courage
which endured so much misery, and of pity for the faults which brought that misery upon him.
Such a feeling would be justified, if we could believe that fortitude was a positive trait
in his character. That is to say, if he had been properly sensible of the odium which covered
his name, and had really felt the sorrows which visited him,--if these things had moved him
as they do others, and he had still gone on calmly and bravely to the end, hiding the wounds
which tortured him, and giving no sign of pain,--he would, indeed, have been worthy of admiration;
he would have been a hero. But we think it will appear, upon a closer examination, that his
fortitude was a negative, not a positive quality; it was insensibility, not courage. He did
not suffer, because he did not feel. The emotional part of our nature he did not possess; at
least, it did not show itself in any of the forms which it usually takes,--in love of country,
or of kindred,--in the opinions which he professed, or in the subjects which occupied his thoughts.
The first act of his manhood was to join in the resistance of his countrymen to foreign oppression.
But it was no love of liberty that urged him to arms. He went to the camp at Cambridge from
the mere love of adventure. The sacred spirit which gave nobility to so many,--which transformed
mechanics, tradesmen, village lawyers, and plain country-gentlemen into statesmen, philosophers,
diplomatists, and great captains,--which united the children of many races into one nation,
and roused a simple people to deeds of lofty heroism,--awakened no enthusiasm in him. He was
in the very flush of youth, yet to his most intimate friends he did not breathe a word of even
moderate interest in the cause for which he had drawn his sword. His political life was passed
during the first twenty years of our national existence, when men's minds were exercised in
the effort to adapt one government to the various and apparently conflicting interests of many
communities widely separated by distance, climate, and ancient differences; but these complicated
and momentous subjects, so absorbing to all thoughtful men, never weighed upon his mind. He
was in Europe when Napoleon was at the height of his power, when his armies swept from the
Danube to the Guadalquivir; but that strange story, which the giddiest school-girl cannot read
with divided attention, drew no remark from his lips. It is said that he was fond of his daughter;--it
was a fondness of the head, not of the heart. He admired her because she was beautiful and
intelligent;--had she been plain and dull, he would not have cared for her. He made no return
for the affection, warm and generous, which her noble heart lavished upon him, liberal as the
sunlight. Had that earnest love touched, for a single instant, a responsive chord in his heart,
he could never have written those foul, foul words to make her blush at the record of her father's
shame. Nowhere does he express regret for the misfortunes which he brought upon others,--the
bereaved family of Hamilton,--the ruin of Blennerhassett,--the victims of his passions and
his ambition. He spoke freely, as if they were indifferent matters, of things which most men
would have concealed. He laughed at his trial,--alluded to Hamilton as "my friend Hamilton,
whom I shot,"--and used to repeat some doggerel lines upon the duel, which he had seen in a
strolling exhibition. It is said that he was courteous and amiable, and that he did many kind
and generous acts. His courtesy and amiability did not restrain him from perfidy and debauchery;
neither did he ever do a kind act when an unkind one would have served his purposes better.

As we have seen, Mr. Parton has described Aaron Burr as suited to many very incongruous conditions
in life. If we were to select an epoch in history and a form of society for which he was best
adapted, we should place him in France daring the Regency and the reign of Louis XV. There,
where a successful bon-mot established a claim to office, and a well-turned leg did more for
a man than the best mind in Europe, Burr would have risen to distinction. He might have shone
in the literary circles at Sceaux, and in the petits soupers at the Palais Royal. Among the
wits, the littérateurs, the fashionable men and women of the time, he would have found society
congenial to his tastes, and sufficient employment for his talents. He would have exhibited
in his own life and character their vices and their superficial virtues, their extravagance,
libertinism, and impiety, their politeness, courage, and wit. He might have borne a distinguished
part in the petty statesmanship, the intriguing diplomacy, and the wild speculations of that
period. But here, among the stern rebels of the Revolution and the practical statesmen of the
early Republic, this trickster and shallow politician, this visionary adventurer and boaster
of ladies' favors, was out of place. He has given to his country nothing except a pernicious
example. The full light, which shows us that his vices may have been exaggerated, shows likewise
that his talents have surely been overestimated. The contrast which gave fascination to his
career is destroyed; and for a partial vindication of his character he will pay the penalty
which he would most have dreaded, that of being forgotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL. "Don't" for doesn't,--base misspelling of Clos Vougeot, (I wish
I saw the label on the bottle a little oftener,)--and I don't know how many more.

CHILD-LIFE BY THE GANGES.

We are told--and, being philosophers, we will amuse ourselves by believing--that there are
towns in India, somewhere between Cape Comorin and the Himalayas, wherein everything is butcha,--that
is, "a little chap"; where inhabitants and inhabited are alike in the estate of urchins; where
little Brahmins extort little offerings from little dupes at the foot of little altars, and
ring little bells, and blow little horns, and pound little gongs, and mutter little rigmaroles
before stupid little Krishnas and Sivas and Vishnus, doing their little wooden best to look
solemn, mounted on little bulls or snakes, under little canopies; where little Brahminee bulls,
in all the little insolence of their little sacred privileges, poke their little noses into
the little rice-baskets of pious little maidens in little bazaars, and help their little selves
to their little hearts' content, without "begging your little pardons," or "by your little
leaves"; where dirty little fakirs and yogees hold their dirty little arms above their dirty
little heads, until their dirty little muscles are shrunk to dirty little rags, and their dirty
little finger-nails grow through the backs of their dirty little hands,--or wear little ten-penny
nails thrust through their little tongues till they acquire little chronic impediments in their
decidedly dirty little speech,--or, by means of little hooks through the little smalls-of-their-backs,
circumgyrate from little churruck-posts for the edification of infatuated little crowds and
the honor of horrid little goddesses; where plucky little widows perform their little suttees
for defunct little husbands, grilling on little funeral piles; where mangy little Pariah dogs
defile the little dinners of little high-caste folks, by stealing hungry little sniffs from
sacred little pots; where omnivorous little adjutant-birds gobble up little glass bottles,
and bones, and little dead cats, and little old slippers, and bits of little bricks, in front
of little shops in little bazaars; where vociferous little circars are driving little bargains
with obese little banyans, and consequential little chowkedars--that is, policemen--are bullying
inoffensive little poor people, and calling them sooa-logue,--that is, pigs;--where--where,
in fine, everything in heathen human-nature happens butcha, and the very fables with which
the little story-tellers entertain the little loafers on the corners of the little streets,
are full of little giants and little dwarfs. Let us pursue the little idea, and talk butcha
to the end of this chapter.

When, in Calcutta, you have smitten the dry rock of your lonely life with the magic rod of
connubial love, and that well-spring of pleasure, a new baby, has leaped up in the midst of
your wilderness of exile, the demonstration, if any, with which your servants will receive
the glad tidings, will depend wholly on the "denomination of the imbecile offspring," as our
eleëmosynary widow, Mrs. Diana Theodosia Comfort Green, would call it. If it happen to be only
a girl, there will be a trace of pity in the silent salaam with which the grim durwan salutes
you as you roll into your palkee at the gate to proceed to the godowns where they are weighing
the saltpetre and the gunny bags. As he touches his forehead with his joined palms, he thinks
of the difference that color makes to the babivorous crocodiles of Ganges. Perhaps your gray-beard
circar, privileged by virtue of high caste and faithful service, will take upon himself to
condole with you: "Khodabund" he will say, "better luck next time; Heaven is not always with
one's paternal hopes; let us trust that my lord may live to say it might have been worse; let
us pray that the baba's bridal necklace may be as gay as rubies and as light as lilies, and
that she may die before her husband."

But if to the existing number of your suntoshums--the jewels that hang on the Mem Sahib's bosom--a
man-child is added, ah, then there is merry-making in the verandas, and happy salaaming on
the stairs; and in the fulness of his Hindoo Sary-Gampness, which counts the Sahib blessed
that hath "his quiver full of sich," he says, Ap-ki kullejee kaisa burri ho-jaga! Khodá rukho
ki beebi-ka kullejee bhee itni burri hoga,--Gurreeb-purwan! "How large my lord's liver is about
to grow! God grant to the Mem Sahib, my exalted lady, a liver likewise large,--O favored protector
of the poor!" The happiness and honors which should follow upon the birth of a male child being
figuratively comprehended in that enlargement of the liver whence comes the good digestion
for which alone life is worth the living.

Many and grievous perils do environ baby-life by the Ganges,--perils of dry nurses, perils
by wolves, perils by crocodiles, perils by the Evil Eye, perils by kidnappers, perils by cobras,
perils by devils.

You are living at one of the up-country stations, where the freer air of the jungle imparts
to babes and sucklings a voracious appetite. Besides your own dhye, brought from Calcutta,
there is not another wet-nurse to be had, for love or money. Immediately Dhye strikes for higher
wages. The Baba Sahib, she says, has defiled her rice; yesterday he put his foot into her curry;
to-day he washes the monkey's tail in her consecrated lotah. What shall she do? she has lost
caste; the presents to the Brahmins, that her reinstatement will cost her, will consume all
her earnings from the beginning. Gurreeb-purwan, O munificent and merciful! what shall she
do? She strikes for higher wages.--But you are hard-hearted and hard-headed; you will not pay,--by
Gunga, not another pice! by Latchtmee, not one cowry more!--Oh, then she will leave; with a
heavy heart she will turn her back on the blessed baby; she will pour dust upon her head before
the Mem Sahib, at whose door her disgrace shall lie, and she will return to her kindred.--Not
she! the durwan, grim and incorruptible, has his orders; she cannot pass the gate. Oho! then
immediately she dries up; no "fount," and Baby famishing. You try ass's milk; it does not agree
with Baby; besides, it costs a rupee a pint. You try a goat; she does not agree with Baby,
for she butts him treacherously, and, leaping over his prostrate body, scampers, like Leigh
Hunt's pig in Smithfield Market, up all manner of figurative streets. Then you send for Dhye,
and say, "Milk, or I shave your head!" Milk or death! And, lo, a miracle!--the "fount" again!--Baby
is saved.

What was, then, the conjuration and the mighty magic? In the folds of her saree the dhye conceals
leaves of chambeli, the Indian jessamine, roots of dhallapee, the jungle radish. She chews
the chambeli, and hungry Baby, struggling for the "fount," is insulted with apples of Sodom;
she swallows a portion of dhallapee, and he is regaled as with the melting melons of Ceylon.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some fine afternoon your ayah takes your little Johnny to stroll by the river's bank,--to watch
the green budgerows, as they glide, pulled by singing dandees (so the boatmen of Ganges are
called) up to Patna,--to watch the brown corpses, as they float silently down from Benares.
At night the ayah returns, wringing her hands. Where is your merry darling? She knows not.
O Khodabund, go ask the evil spirits! O Sahib, go cry unto Gunga,--go accuse the greedy river,
and say to the envious waters, "Give back my boy!" She had left him sitting on a stone, she
says, counting the sailing corpses, while she went to find him a blue-jay's nest among the
rocks; when she returned to the stone,--no Jonnee Sahib! "My golden image, who hath snatched
him away? He that skipped and hummed like a singing-top, where is he gone?"--A month after
that, your dandees capture a crocodile, and from his heathen maw recover a familiar coral necklace
with an inscription on the clasp,--"To Johnny, on his birth-day." A pair of little silver bangles,
whose jocund jingling had once been happy household music to some poor Hindoo mother, have
kept the necklace company.

       *       *       *       *       *

Over against the gate of our compound the Baboo's walks are bright with roses, and ixoras,
and the creeping nagatallis; the Baboo's park is shady with banians, and fragrant with sandal-trees,
and imposing with tall peepuls, and cool with sparkling fountains; and Chinna Tumbe, the Little
Brother, the brown apple of the Baboo's eye, plays among the bamboos by the tank, just within
the gate, and pelts the gold-fishes with mango-seeds. Presently comes along a pleasant peddler,
all the way from Cabool, with a pretty bushy-tailed kitten of Persia in the hollow of his arm,
and a cunning little mungooz cracking nuts on his shoulder. A score of tiny silver bells tinkle
from a silken cord around Chinna Tumbe's loins, and the silver whistle with which he calls
his cockatoos is suspended from his neck by a chain of gold. So the pleasant peddler all the
way from Cabool greets Chinna Tumbe merrily, saying, "See my pretty kitten, that knows a hundred
tricks! and see my brave mungooz, that can kill cobras in fair fight! My Persian kitten for
your silver bells, Chinna Tumbe, and my cunning mungooz for your golden chain!" And Chinna
Tumbe laughs, and claps his hands, and dances for delight, and all his silver bells jingle
gleefully. And the pleasant peddler all the way from Cabool says, "Step without the gate, Little
Brother, if you would see my pretty kitten play tricks; if you would stroke my cunning mungooz,
step without the gate; for I dare not pass within, lest my lord, the Baboo of many lacs, should
be angry." So Chinna Tumbe steps out into the road, and the pleasant peddler all the way from
Cabool sets the Persian kitten on the ground, and rattles off some strange words, that sound
very funnily to the Little Brother; and immediately the Persian kitten begins to run round
after its bushy tail, faster and faster, faster and faster, a ring of yellow light. Then the
peddler speaks to the cunning mungooz, which immediately leaps to the ground, and sitting quite
erect, with its broad tail curled over its back, like a marabout feather, holds its paws together
in the quaint manner of a squirrel, and looks attentive. More of the peddler's funny conjuration,
and up springs the mungooz into the air, like a Birman's wicker football, and, alighting on
the kitten's back, clings close and fast. For Chinna Tumbe follows fast, crying, Wah, wah!
and clapping his hands, and jingling gleefully all his silver bells,--follows across the road,
and through the bamboo hedge, and into the darkness and the danger of the jungle; and the pleasant
peddler all the way from Cabool goes smiling after,--but, as he goes, what is it that he draws
from the breast of his dusty coortee? Only a slender, smooth cord, with a slip-knot at the
end of it.

Within the twelvemonth, in a stony nullah, hard by a clump of crooked saul-trees, a mile away
from the Baboo's gate, some jackals brought to light the bones of a little child; and the deep
grave from which they dug them with their sharp, busy claws, bore marks of the mystic pick-axe
of Thuggee. But there were no tinkling bells, no chain of gold, no silver whistle; and the
cockatoos and the goldfishes knew Chinna Tumbe no more.

When a name was bestowed on the Little Brother, the Brahmins wrote a score of pretty words
in rice, and set over each a lamp freshly trimmed, and the name whose light burned brightest,
with happy augury, was "Chinna Tumbe." And when they had likewise inscribed the day of his
birth, and the name of his natal star, the proud and happy Baboo cried, with a loud voice,
three times, "Chinna Tumbe," and all the Brahmins stretched forth their hands and pronounced
Asowadam,--benediction. Then they performed arati about the child's head, to avert the Evil
Eye, describing mystic circles with lamps of rice-paste set on copper salvers, with many pious
incantations. But, spite of all, the Evil Eye overtook Chinna Tumbe, when the pleasant peddler
came all the way from Cabool, with his bushy-tailed kitten, and his mungooz cracking nuts.

They do say the ghost of Chinna Tumbe walks,--that always at midnight, when the Indian nightingale
fills the Baboo's banian topes with her lugubrious song, and the weird ulus hoot from the peepul
tops, a child, girt with silver bells, and followed by a Persian kitten and a mungooz, shakes
the Baboo's gate, blows upon a silver whistle, and cries, so piteously, "Ayah! Ayah!"

       *       *       *       *       *

At Hurdwar, in the great fair, among jugglers and tumblers, horse-tamers and snake-charmers,
fakirs and pilgrims, I saw a small boy possessed of a devil,--an authentic devil, as of yore,
meet for miraculous driving-out. In the midst of dire din, heathenish and horrible,--dissonant
jangle of zogees' bells, brain-rending blasts from Brahmins' shells, strepent howling of opium-drunk
devotees, delirious pounding of tom-toms, brazen clangor of gongs,--a child of seven years,
that might, unpossessed, have been beautiful, sat under the shed of a sort of curiosity-shop,
among bangles and armlets, mouthpieces for pipes, leaden idols, and Brahminical cords, and
made infernal faces,--his mouth foaming epileptically, his hair dishevelled and matted with
sudden sweat, his eyes blood-shot, his whole aspect diabolic. And on the ground before the
miserable lad were set dishes of rice mixed with blood, carcasses of rams and cocks, handfuls
of red flowers, and ragged locks of human hair, wherewith the more miserable people sought
to appease the fell bhuta that had set up his throne in that fair soul. Sack bat? It was even
so. And as the possessed made spasmy fists with his feet, clinching his toes strangely, and
grinned, with his chin between his knees, I solemnly wished for the presence of One who might
cry with the voice of authority, as erst in the land of the Gadarenes, "Come out of the lad,
thou unclean spirit!"

At the Hurdwar fair pretty little naked girls are exposed for sale, and in their soft brown
innocence appeal at once to the purity of your mind and the tenderness of your heart. They
come from Cashmere with the shawls, or from Cabool with the kittens, or from the Punjaub with
the arms and shields.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very quaint are the little Miriams, Ruths, and Hannahs of the Jewish houses in Bombay,--with
their full trousers of blue satin and gold, their boyish Fez caps of spangled red velvet, bound
round with party-colored turbans, their chin-bands of pearls, their coin chains, their great
gold bangles, and the jingling tassels of their long plaits.

Less interesting, because formal and inanimate, even to sulkiness, are the prim little Parsee
maidens, who often wear an "exercised" expression, of a settled sort, as though they were weary
of reflecting on the hollowness of the world, and how their dolls are stuffed with sawdust,
and that Dakhma, the Tower of Silence, is the end of all things.

Then there are the regimental babalogue, the soldiers' children, sturdiest and toughest of
Anglo-Indian urchins,--affording, in their brown cheeks and crisp muscles and boisterous ways,
a consoling contrast to the oh-call-it-pale-not-fairness, and the frailness, and premature
pensiveness of the little Civil Service.

And there is the half-caste child, the lisping chee-chee, or Eurasian, grandiloquently so called,
much given to sentimental minstrelsy, juvenile polkas, early coquetry, and early beer, hot
curries, loud clothes, bad English, and fast pertness. I never think of them without recalling
a precocious ballad-screamer of eight years who was flourished indispensably at every chee-chee
hop in Chandernagore:

  "O lay me in a little pit,
  With a marvle thtone to cover it,
  And keearve thereon a turkle-dove,
  That the world may know I died for love!"

I left India in consequence of that child.

But for the true Anglo-Indian type of brat, at all points a complete "torn-down," "dislikeable
and rod-worthy," as Mrs. Mackenzie describes it, there is nothing among nursery nuisances comparable
to the Civil-Service child of eight or ten years, whose father, a "Company's Bad Bargain,"
in the Mint, or the Supreme Court, or the Marine Office, draws per mensem enough to set his
brat up in the usual servile surroundings of such small despots. Deriving the only education
it ever gets directly from its personal attendants, this young monster of bad temper, bad manners,
and bad language becomes precociously proficient in overbearing ways, and voluble in Hindostanee
Billingsgate, before it has acquired enough of its ancestral tongue to frame the simplest sentence.
It bullies its bhearer; it bangs distractingly on the tom-tom; it surfeits itself to an apoplectic
point with pish-pash; it burns its mouth with hot curry, and bawls; it indulges in horrid Hindostanee
songs, whereof the burden will not bear translation; it insults whatever is most sacred to
the caste attachments of its attendants; the Moab of ayahs is its wash-pot, over an Edom of
bhearers will it cast out its shoe; it slaps the mouth of a gray-haired khansaman with its
slipper, and dips its poodle's paws in a Mohammedan kitmudgar's rice; it calls a learned Pundit
an asal ulu, an egregious owl; it says to a high-caste circar, "Shut up, you pig!" and to an
illustrious moonshee, "Hi, toom junglee-wallah!" Whereat its fond mamma, to whom Bengalee,
Hindostanee, and Sanscrit are alike sealed books of Babel, claps the hands of her heart, and
crying, Wah, wah! in all the innocence of her philological deficiency, blesses the fine animal
spirits of her darling Hastings Clive.

"Soono, you sooa, loom kis-wasti omara bukri not bring?" says Hastings Clive, whose English
is apt to figure among his Hindostanee like Brahmins in a regiment of Sepoys,--that is, one
Brahmin to every twenty low-caste fellows.

The Hon. Mrs. Wellesley Gough.--Wellesley dear, do listen to that darling Hastings Clive, how
sweetly he prattles! What did he say then? If one could only learn that delightful Hindostanee,
so that one could converse with one's dear Hastings Clive! Do tell me what he said.

The Hon. Wellesley Gough, of the Company's Bad Bargains.--Literally interpreted, my dearest
Maud, our darling Hastings Clive sweetly remarked, "I say, you pig, why in thunder don't you
fetch my goat into the parlor?"

The Hon. Mrs. Wellesley Gough, of the Hon. Mr. Wellesley Gough's Bad Bargains.--Oh, isn't he
clever?

Hastings Clive.--Jou, you haremzeada! Bukri na munkta, nimuk-aram!

The Hon. Wellesley Gough.--My love, he says now, "Get out, you good-for-nothing rascal! I don't
want that goat here."

The Hon. Mrs. Wellesley Gough.--Oh, isn't he clever?

What dreadful crime did you commit in another life, O illustrious Moonshee, that you should
fall now among such thieves as this horrid Hastings Clive?

"Sahib, I know not. Hum kia kurrenge? kismut hi: What can I do? it is my fate."

Hastings Clive has a queer assortment of pets, first of which are the bushy-tailed Persian
kittens, hereinbefore mentioned. When, in Yankee-land, some lovelorn Zeekle is notoriously
sweet upon any Huldy of the rural maids,--when

  "His heart keeps goin' pitypat,
  And hern goes pity Zeekle,"--

when she is

  "All kind o' smily round the lips,
  And teary round the lashes,"--

it is usual to describe his condition by a feline figure; he is said to "cuddle up to her like
a sick kitten to a hot brick." But the sick Oriental kitten, reversing the Occidental order
of kitten things, cuddles up to a water-monkey, and fondly embraces the refreshing evaporation
of its beaded bulb with all her paws and all her bushy tail. The Persian kitten stands high
in the favor of Hastings Clive.

Hastings Clive has a whole array of parroquets and hill-mainahs, which, as they learned their
small language from his peculiar scurrilous practice, are but blackguard birds at best. He
also rejoices in many blue-jays, rescued from the Ganges, whereinto they were thrown as offerings
to the vengeful Doorga during the barbarous pooja celebrated in her name. Very proud, too,
is Hastings Clive of his pigeons,--his many-colored pigeons from Lucknow, Delhi, and Benares;
an Oudean bird-boy has trained them to the pretty sport of the Mohammedan princes, and every
afternoon he flies them from the house-top in flashing flocks, for Hastings Clive's entertainment.

Hastings Clive has toys, the wooden and earthen toys for which Benares was ever famous among
Indian children,--nondescript animals, and as non-descript idols,--little Brahminee bulls with
bells, and artillery camels, like those at Rohilcund and Agra,--Sahibs taking the air in buggies,
country-folk in hackeries, baba-logue in gig-topped ton-jons. But much more various and entertaining,
though frailer, are his Calcutta toys, of paper, clay, and wax,--hunting-parties in bamboo
howdahs, on elephants a foot high, that move their trunks very cunningly,--avadavats of clay,
which flutter so naturally, suspended by hairs in bamboo cages, that the cats destroy them
quickly,--miniature palanquins, budgerows, bungalows, and pagodas, all of paper,--figures in
clay of the different castes and callings, baboos, kitmudgars, washermen, barbers, tailors,
street-waterers, box-wallahs, (as the peddlers are called,) nautch-girls, jugglers, sepoys,
policemen, doorkeepers, dog-boys,--all true to the life, in costume, attitude, and expression.

Statedly, on his birth-day, the Anglo-Indian child is treated to a kat-pootlee nautch, and
Hastings Clive has a birth-day every time he conceives a longing for a puppet-show; so that
our wilful young friend may be said to be nine years, and about nineteen kat-pootlee nautches, old.

To make a birth-day for Hastings Clive, three or four tamasha-wallahs, or show-fellows, are
required; these, hired for a few rupees, come from the nearest bazaar, bringing with them all
the fantastic apparatus of a kat-pootlee nautch, with its interludes of story-telling and jugglery.
A sheet, or table-cloth, or perhaps a painted drop-curtain, expressly prepared, is hung between
two pillars in the drawing-room, and reaches, not to the floor, but to the tops of the miniature
towers of a silver palace, where some splendid Rajah, of fabulous wealth and power, is about
to hold a grand durbar, or levee. All the people, be they illustrious personages or the common
herd, who assist in the ceremony, are puppets a span long, rudely constructed and coarsely
painted, but very faithful as to costume and manners, and most dexterously played upon by the
invisible tamasha-wallahs, whom the curtain conceals.

A silver throne having been wheeled out on the portico by manikin bhearers, the manikin Rajah,
attended by his manikin moonshee, and as many manikin courtiers as the tamasha property-man
can supply, comes forth in his wooden way, and seats himself on the throne in wooden state;
a manikin hookah-badar, or pipe-server, and a manikin chattah-wallah, or umbrella-bearer, take
up their wooden position behind, while a manikin punkah-wallah fans, woodenly, his manikin
Highness, and the manikin courtiers dance wooden attendance around. Then manikin ladies and
gentlemen come on manikin elephants and horses and camels, or in manikin palanquins, and alight
with wooden dignity at the foot of the palace stairs, taking their respective orders of wooden
precedence with wooden pomposities and humilities, and all the manikin forms of the customary
bore. The manikin courtiers trip woodenly down the grand stairs to meet the manikin guests
with little wooden Orientalisms of compliment, and all the little wooden delicacies of the
season; and they conduct the manikin Sahibs and Beebees into the presence of the manikin Rajah,
who receives them with wooden condescension and affability, and graciously reciprocates their
wooden salaams, inquiring woodenly into the health of all their manikin friends, and hoping,
with the utmost ligneous solicitude, that they have had a pleasant wooden journey: and so on,
manikin by manikin, to the wooden end. Of course, much desultory tomtomry and wild troubadouring
behind the curtain make the occasion musical.

The audience is complete in all the picturesqueness of mixed baba-logue. In the front row,
chattering brown ayahs, gay with red sarees and nose-rings, sit on the floor, holding in their
laps pale, tender babies, fair-haired and blue-eyed, lace-swaddled, coral-clasped, and amber-studded.
Behind these, on high chairs, are the striplings of three years and upward, vociferous and
kicking under the hand-punkahs of their patient bhearers. Tall fellows are these bhearers,
with fierce moustaches, but gentle eyes,--a sort of nursery lions whom a little child can lead.
On each side are small chocolate-colored heathens, in a sort of short chemises, silver-bangled
as to their wrists and ankles, and already with the caste-mark on the foreheads of some of
them,--shy, demure younglings, just learning all the awful significance of the word Sahib,
who have been brought from mysterious homes by fond ayahs, and smuggled in through back-stairs
influence, or boldly introduced by the durwan under the glorifying patronage of that terrible
Hastings Clive.

Back of all are Dhobee, the washerman, and Dirzce, the tailor, and Mehter, the sweeper, and
Mussalehee, the torch-boy, and Metranee, the scullion,--and all the rest of the household riff-raffry.
There is much clapping of hands, and happy wah-wah-ing, wherefrom you conclude that Hastings
Clive's birth-day is at least one good result of his being born at all.

The Sahib baba-logue have a lively share in several of the native festivals. The Hoolee, for
instance, is their high carnival of fun, when they pelt their elders and each other with the
red powder of the mhindee, and repel laughing assaults with smart charges of rose-water fired
from busy little squirts. During the illumination of the Duwallee, they receive from the servants
presents of fantastic toys, and search in the compounds by moonlight for the flower of the
tree that never blossoms, and for the soul of a snake, whence comes to the finder good luck
for the rest of his life.

These are the traditional sports of the baba-logue; but they are ingenious in inventing others,
wherein, from time to time, the imitative faculty, of the native child especially, is tragically
manifested.

When the Nawab, Shumsh-ud-deen, was hung at Delhi for hiring a sowar to assassinate Mr. Fraser,
the British Commissioner, the country population round about were seized with the news as with
the coming of a dragon or a destroying army; and the British Lion was the Bogy, the Black Douglas,
in whose name poor ryots' wives scared refractory brats into trembling obedience. Not far from
Delhi was a village school, where were many small boys,--so many Asiatic frogs-in-a-well,--to
whom "the news of the day" was full of terrible portent. Once, when they were tired of foot-ball,
and the shuttlecock had grown heavy on their hands, the cry was, "What shall we play next?"
And one daring little fellow--whose father had been to Delhi with his rent, and had told how
the Nawab met his kismut (his fate) so quietly, that the gold-embroidered slippers did not
fall from his feet--cried, "Let us play hanging the Nawab! and I will be the Nawab; and Kama,
here, shall be Kurreim Khan, the sowar; and Joota shall be Metcalfe Sahib, the magistrate;
and the rest of you shall be the sahibs, and the sepoys, and the priests."

Acha, acha!--"Good, good!" they all cried. "Let us play the Nawab's kismut! let us hang the
Nawab! And Mungloo--he that is more clever than all of us--he that is cunning as a Thug--Mungloo
shall be the Nawab!"

So they began with the murder of the Commissioner; and he who personated Kurreim Khan, the
assassin, played so naturally, that he sent the Commissioner screaming to his mother, with
an arrow sticking in his arm. Then they arrested Kurreim Khan, and his accomplice, Unnia, a
mehwatti, who turned king's evidence, and betrayed the sowar; and having tried and condemned
Kurreim Khan, they would have hung him on the spot; but, being but a little fellow, he became
alarmed at the serious turn the sport was taking, although he had himself set so sharp an example;
so he took nimbly to his heels, and followed his young friend, the Commissioner.

Then Unnia told how the Nawab had paid Kurreim Khan blood-money, because Shumsh-ud-deen did
so hate Fraser Sahib. Whereupon Metcalfe Sahib, a little naked fellow, just the color of an
old mahogany table, sent his sepoys and had the Nawab dragged, in all his ragged breech-cloth
glory, to the bar of Sahib justice. In about three minutes, the Nawab was condemned to die,--condemned
to be hung by an outcast sweeper. But, in consideration of his exalted rank, they consented
that he should wear his slippers, and ride to the place of execution, smoking his hookah; and
Mungloo acknowledged the Sahib's magnanimity by proudly inclining his head, like a true Nawab,
with a dignified "Acha!" Then two members of the court-martial, who lived nearest at hand,
ran home, and quickly returned, one with his father's slippers, the other with his mother's
hubble-bubble; and having tied the slippers, that were a world too big, on Mungloo's little
feet, and lighted the hubble-bubble, that he might smoke, they mounted him on a buffalo, captured
from the village hurkaru, who happened, just in the nick of time, to come riding by, on his
way to Delhi, with the mail. And they led out the prisoner, smoking his hubble-bubble,--and
looking, as Metcalfe Sahib said of the real Nawab, "as if he had been accustomed to be hanged
every day of his life,"--to the place of execution, an old saul-tree with low limbs. Then,
having taken the rope with which the hurkaru's mail-bag was lashed to his buffalo, they slipped
a noose over the Nawab's head, made the other end fast to the lower limb of the saul-tree,
and led away the buffalo.

