He was a child of very deep affections and warmth of heart, but he did not show any special
intelligence. He was lively, merry, and extremely talkative, but sometimes a silent mood would
fall on him, and perhaps, as his sister says, his imagination was then carrying him to distant
worlds, though the family only thought the chatterbox was tired. In all ways, however, he was
in these days a very ordinary child, devoted to fairy stories, fond of the popular nursery
amusement of making up plays, and charmed with the excruciating noise he brought out of a little
red violin. This he would sometimes play on for hours, till even the faithful Laure would remonstrate,
and he would be astonished that she did not realise the beauty of his music.

This happy childish life, chastened only by the tremors which both children felt when taken
by their governess in the morning and at bedtime into the stern presence of their mother, did
not last very long for Honore. When he was eight years old (his sister says seven, but this
seems to be a mistake), there was a change in his life, as the home authorities decided that
it was time his education should begin in good earnest. He was therefore taken from the day
school at Tours, and sent to the semi-military college founded by the Oratorians in the sleepy
little town of Vendome. On page 7 of the school record there is the following notice: "No.
460. Honore Balzac, age de huit ans un mois. A eu la petite verole, sans infirmites. Caractere
sanguin, s'echauffant facilement, et sujet a quelques fievres de chaleur. Entre au pensionnat
le 22 juin, 1807. Sorti, le 22 aout, 1813. S'adresser a M. Balzac, son pere, a Tours."[*] Thus
is summed up the character of the future writer of the "Comedie Humaine," and there was apparently
nothing remarkable or precocious about the boy, as his quick temper is his most salient point
in the eyes of his masters. It will be noticed, too, that the "de," about which Balzac was
very particular, and which was the occasion of many scoffing remarks on the part of his enemies,
does not appear on this register.

[*] "Balzac au College," by Champfleury.

Honore was a small boy to have been completely separated from home, and the whole scheme of
education as devised by the Oratorian fathers appears to have been a strange one. One of the
rules forbade outside holidays, and Honore never left the college once during the six years
he was at school; so that there was no supervision from his parents, and no chance of complaint
if he were unhappy or ill treated. His family came to see him at Easter and also at the prize-givings;
but on these occasions, to which he looked forward, his sister tells us, with eager delight,
reproaches were generally his portion, on account of his want of success in school work. In
"Louis Lambert" he gives an interesting account of the college, which was in the middle of
the town on the little river Loir, and contained a chapel, theatre, infirmary, bakery, and
gardens. There were two or three hundred pupils, divided according to their ages or attainments
into four classes--les grands, les moyens, les petits, and les minimes --and each class had
its own class-room and courtyard. Balzac was considered the idlest and most pathetic boy in
his division, and was continually punished. Reproaches, the ferule, the dark cell, were his
portion, and with his quick and delicate senses he suffered intensely from the want of air
in the class-rooms. There, according to the graphic picture in "Louis Lambert," everything
was dirty, and eighty boys inhabited a hall, in the centre of which were two buckets full of
water, where all washed their faces and hands every morning, the water being only renewed once
in the day.