CHATTERBOX

  STORIES OF

  NATURAL HISTORY

  NEW YORK R. WORTHINGTON 770 BROADWAY.

  COPYRIGHT,

  1880,

  By R. WORTHINGTON.

  New York: J. J. Little & Co., Printers, 10 to 20 Astor Place.

         *       *       *       *       *

 +------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 |Transcriber's note: There was no Table of Contents in the original book,|
 |and one has been provided for this version.                             |
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------+

  THE KING OF THE CASTLE.
  ZEBRA AND YOUNG.
  MRS. BRUIN AND FAMILY.
  LITTLE OWLS.
  AUROCHS.
  THE KANGAROO.
  THE PEACOCK.
  SWANS.
  THE SEA LION.
  A--THE ASS.
  BADGERS.
  THE BIRD'S NEST.
  THE CHAMOIS.
  JACKO WITH PUSSY'S BONE.
  MEMBERS OF THE POACHING FRATERNITY.
  A COW WORKING A PUMP.
  CARRIER PIGEONS.
  THE SIASIN, OR ANTELOPE OF INDIA.
  THE COMMON SNIPE.
  D--THE DOE.
  MRS. BUNNY AND FAMILY.
  THE LYNX.
  THE SWAN AND THE DRAKE.
  THE BEAVER.
  LIONESS AND CUBS.
  A PET JACK.
  THE SWALLOW'S NEST.
  THE BRAVE DOG OF ST. BERNARD.
  G--THE GIRAFFE.
  MOTHER-DEER AND BABY.
  WHOOPING CRANE.
  THE ELK.
  TOYS FOR ANIMALS.
  THE SUCKING-PIG.
  BELL-RINGERS.
  THE GUINEA-PIG.
  J--THE JAY.
  WAITING.
  THE ARGUS.
  THE YOUNG MONKEY.
  THE CLEVER FOX.
  TESTING HIS STRENGTH.
  A WISE DOG.
  M--THE MANDRILL.
  SPRING.
  SUMMER.
  TIMOTHY.
  THE BRAVE COCKATOO.
  HARE TAKING THE WATER.
  AUTUMN.
  WINTER.
  OUR WILD BIRDS.
  P--THE PELICAN.
  BLACKBIRDS AND YOUNG.
  A USEFUL PILOT.
  JACK.
  S--THE SWALLOW.
  A SINGULAR HABIT OF THE WOODCOCK.
  THE SKY-LARK
  THE STORY OF A SEAL.
  THE KING OF THE MOUNTAINS.
  THE BEE.
  V--THE VULTURE.
  MOTHER AND PUPS.
  THE FRIENDLY TERNS.
  Y--THE YAK.
  SHEEP AND LAMBS.
  THE CAPTIVE SQUIRREL.
  A STROLL IN THE COUNTRY.
  THE OTTER.
  THE MASTIFF.
  THE CUNNING WOOD-PIGEONS.
  SEA REPTILES.
  SWISS MOUNTAIN SCENERY.
  PARTRIDGE AND YOUNG.
  THE KINGFISHERS' HOME.
  RATS CARRYING EGGS UP STAIRS.
  A HERON ATTACKED BY A HAWK.
  A HORSE GUARDIAN.
  BATTLE BETWEEN A FOX AND A SWAN.
  TOUSY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING OF THE CASTLE.

As the lion is called the king of beasts, so the eagle is called the king of birds; but except
that it is bigger, stronger, and swifter than other birds, there does not seem much reason
for the name. It is a mistake to attribute noble or mean qualities to animals or birds, or
to think they can do good or bad actions, when they can only do what God has created them to
do, and as their instinct teaches.

The most powerful of the eagles is the Golden Eagle, so called because of the rich yellowish-brown
bordering to its feathers. It makes its nest in the clefts of the rocky sides of the mountains,
and seldom on a tree, unless where one has sprung up in between the clefts, and the tangled
roots make a sort of platform. This the eagles cover with sticks, and here they make their
house, living in it always, and not only when they lay eggs or have young ones.

If there are eaglets in the nest, the food is at once carried home to them, and the skinning
and eating done at home. Eagles are very attentive to their young, and feed them with great
care until they are able to take care of themselves.

ZEBRA AND YOUNG.

Mrs. Zebra, standing with her baby by her side, asks proudly of the lookers-on, "Did you ever
see such a likeness?" and certainly mother and child are very much alike, striped all over
their bodies, from head to foot, and from nose to tail, with the same regular marks of black.
Strong and wild by nature, the zebra family are left very much to themselves, which is a source
of great happiness to the mother and child in the picture before us. "No! no! my baby is not
going to become as tame as the donkey, or to draw carts and carriages like the horse; it is
to have its freedom, and go just where it likes all over these large plains;"--so says Mrs.
Zebra, and she means it too, for if anybody took the trouble to go all the way to the hot country
of Africa, where Mrs. Zebra is at home, and tried to carry off her baby, they would find their
journey a vain one, and that she would kick severely, and perhaps break the legs of the person
bold enough to take away her darling.

MRS. BRUIN AND FAMILY.

This is the American black bear, who is looking so lively and seemingly inviting the young
folks to have a romp, which they will be only too willing to join in. The black bear is of
a timid disposition, and seldom attacks man except in self-defense. The female bear is a most
affectionate mother, and many stories are related showing her care and love for her young,
and her sorrow and mournful cries when any evil befalls them. On one occasion a black bear
with her two cubs was pursued across the ice by some armed sailors. At first she urged her
cubs to increased speed, but finding her pursuers gaining upon them, she carried, pushed, and
pitched them, alternately, forward, until she effected their escape from her pursuers.

LITTLE OWLS.

Who has not at one time or other of his life read fairy tales and sympathized with stories
of enchanted princes and princesses? I once thought of this when a country boy offered me a
nest with four of the young of the Little Owl. I put them into a large cage, where they could
stare at each other and at my pigeons to their hearts' content.

Let me say that this little owl is a very useful bird, for it keeps mice, bats, beetles, and
other creatures in check, which might otherwise multiply too fast. On a spring or summer evening
you may hear its plaintive hoot among the apple-blossoms of an orchard, or the sheaves of a
cornfield. Curiously enough, this simple sound earned the little bird the name of being the
harbinger of death, and peasants believed that whenever its cry was heard where sickness was
in the family, the patient was sure to die.

AUROCHS.

An Aurochs in blind rage, charging through thick and thin, has had a fascination for me as
long as I can remember. The true aurochs and this, the European Bison, ceased to exist in the
British Isles, except in the Zoological Gardens; but the latter is still found wild in Lithuania,
and is also carefully preserved in other parts of Russia, of which the Emperor has a herd.
There is much talk about their being untamable--that they will not mix with tame cattle--that
tame cows shrink from the aurochs' calves; but does not any cow shrink from any calf not her
own? The American Bison, with which you are all pretty familiar, is very similar to the one
just mentioned. There have been several attempts made to domesticate the American bison, and
have been so far successful. The size and strength of the animal make it probable that if domesticated,
it would be of great use.

THE KANGAROO.

"Well," said little Herbert Joyce, as he looked over the books of drawings which his cousin
had just brought home from Australia, "I never saw anything so extraordinary before in all
my life; why here is an animal with three heads, and two of them are very low down, and much
smaller than the others." "What do you mean, Herbert?" asked his cousin, who just then came
into the room. "There are no three-headed animals--let me see the picture. Oh! no wonder you
were puzzled; it does look like a queer creature. That is a kangaroo, and the small heads belong
to her children, whom she carries about in a bag formed by a hole in her skin, until they are
old enough to walk; and the little things seem very happy there; and sometimes, as their mother
moves along over the grass, you may see them nibbling it."

THE PEACOCK.

Proud bird! I watched thee stalking by,
  With stately step and slow,
As though thou fain would'st charm each eye
  With glittering pomp and show:

And truly thou art brave to see,
  In heaven's hues arrayed,
And plainer birds at sight of thee
  Might shrink and be dismayed:

Yet, pampered bird! there still are those
  I value higher far,
Albeit their garb nor glints nor glows
  With many a jeweled star.

I love them for their gentle ways,
  Their voices soft and sweet
In summer chorus, that repays
  Right well their winter's meat.

For what is outward form at best
  But accident of birth?
That form in splendid raiment drest
  Is still but common earth.

And yet 'tis he whose painted plumes
  Shine fairest in the sun,
Who haughtiest look of pride assumes,
  As though by him 'twere done.

We smile to see yon bird strut by,
  Thus proud of his array;
But human friends we may espy
  As foolish every day.

Not beauty's form nor grand attire
  Upon the wise will tell,
But acts of those who e'er aspire
  To do their DUTY well.

SWANS.

This beautiful and majestic bird was considered the bird-royal in England, owing to a law of
England that when found in a partially wild state on the sea and navigable rivers it belonged
to the crown; but of course it is to be found on the ponds and lakes of many a gentleman's
estate, and is always prized as a great ornament to the lake. The swan is also very valuable
in clearing the ponds of weeds, and makes a most effective clearance, as they eat them before
they rise to the surface. The swan affords a pleasing illustration of the love of the mother-bird
for its young, and has been known to vanquish a fox who made an attack on its nest--showing
that the instinct of motherhood kindles boldness and bravery in the breast of the most timid
animals. The nest is generally made on an islet, and composed of reeds and rushes, and when
the five or seven large eggs are hatched, the mother may be seen swimming about with the young
ones on her back.

THE SEA LION.

Although such large and powerful creatures, these sea lions are innocent and playful. See,
one of them has reared himself up on his hind legs, if legs they may be called, and is sitting
on a chair with his flappers over the back of the chair. It inhabits the eastern shores of
Kamtchatka, and is in some places extremely abundant, and measuring about fifteen feet in length.
It is much addicted to roaring, which, as much as the mane of the old males, has obtained for
it the name of the Sea Lion. The old males have a fierce appearance, yet they fly in great
haste on the approach of man, but if driven to extremities they will fight desperately; but
in captivity they are capable of being tamed, and become very familiar with man. The scientific
name of the sea lion is Otary.

A--THE ASS.

A Forbear to vex the patient Ass, Its heaving sides to goad, And far and safe its useful back
Will carry many a load.

B--THE BITTERN.

In reedy swamp and lonely marsh, Where all is shade and gloom, The Bittern stalks, and you
may hear His voice in sullen boom.

C--THE CAMEL.

The Camel is a useful beast, Patient, and slow, and mild; To man a blessing and a boon In Afric's
sandy wild.

BADGERS.

One day at the Zoological Gardens, I saw the group of Badgers as they are here given. Little
do visitors to the gardens take into account how much a wild animal goes through till it has
got used to a state of things so opposite to its natural habits. Their wants are attended to
as much as possible, but cannot be always met; and so we have here a devoted mother, worn out
by the demands of her cubs, and vainly anxious to hide herself from daylight and man's gaze.
She has long given up trying to dig or scratch her way out. All she can do is to lean against
the wall, ready for a last defence, should anybody come within her prison. She dares not curl
up into a ball, like the one cub, and go to sleep; while this little careless imp on her back,
happy and trustful, adds to her tiredness by his weight.

THE BIRD'S NEST.

"Her little nest, so soft and warm,
  God teaches her to make it;
I would not dare to do her harm,
  I would not dare to take it."

THE CHAMOIS.

The chamois are indeed high-born, for among the high mountain-peaks, where the eternal snow
rests and the Alpine roses bloom, there they make their home! There they spring up over the
snowy slopes to those heights to which man cannot climb. They rest upon the glittering ice,
the snow does not blind them, neither does it cool their hot blood. Carelessly they stride
across the snowed-over crevices, and when the terrible storms, at which men are so alarmed,
hurl down rocks and avalanches from the summits, the Chamois do not fear them. They find their
way safely through the thickest mist and darkest clouds. Agile and light-footed, gentle and
peaceable, proud and courageous, they lead a happy life among the mountains, as long as man
does not molest them.

JACKO WITH PUSSY'S BONE.

Jacko is a bird called a Macaw, and has fine feathers--scarlet and yellow and blue. Jacko can
talk a little. He says, "Come along, Jacko, come along;" and when you come, as soon as he thinks
you near enough, he pecks at you with his great beak. When he is in a good temper he will say,
"Poor, poor!" He will sit upon the ivy all the morning and talk to himself, and he will call
the gardener, and he will cough and sneeze, and crow and cackle, in a very funny manner. If
Jacko sees sparrows picking up a few crumbs, he will rush up, sweeping his great wings along
the ground, and take their meal for himself. If he sees poor Pussy picking a bone, he takes
great delight in creeping down from his ivy, helping himself down with beak and claws, and
at a sight of Jacko's approach Pussy darts away, leaving the bone in Jacko's possession. Pussy,
of course, does not like this, but stands at a respectable distance, and with curved back and
flashing eyes shows her indignation at Jacko. Presently Jacko retires to the ivy and Pussy
resumes her feast.

MEMBERS OF THE POACHING FRATERNITY.

Among the various wild animals which inhabit the earth, it is difficult to decide which are
really friendly and which are really hostile to man's interests. The actual fact appears to
be that there is neither hostility nor friendship. If farmers and gardeners kill off too many
birds, nature revenges herself by sending a plague of insects which the small birds, if alive,
would have eaten. Gamekeepers ruthlessly shoot hawks and kites, or snare stoats and polecats,
with the result that their game grows up too thick for its feeding ground, sickly specimens
are allowed to linger on, and a destructive murrain follows. The rook, no doubt, is fond of
eggs; but nevertheless he does the farmer good service when he devours the grubs which are
turned up by the plow; and as the salmon disease, which of late has proved so destructive,
is attributed by the best authorities to overcrowding, that glossy-coated fisherman, the otter,
is really a benefactor to the followers of Izaak Walton's gentle craft.

A COW WORKING A PUMP.

My informant writes me as follows: "We have a wonderful cow here--about ten years old, and
very clever at opening gates and breaking fences. There is an Abyssinnian pump about three
feet high in the center of the field, near my house, over a trough, which is, or ought to be,
filled daily. It was on a hot day, when my man had omitted to pump the trough full, that the
cow was first observed to help herself: the way in which she managed to pump was by pushing
the handle up with her head and then forcing it down with her horns. Very little elevation
of the handle is required to get water, and she would work it for five minutes together, and
sometimes drank from the spout, and sometimes from the trough."

CARRIER PIGEONS.

The carrier pigeon is remarkable for the degree in which it possesses the instinct and power
of returning from a distance to its accustomed home. In Eastern countries it is the practice
to bathe the pigeon's feet in vinegar to keep them cool, and to prevent it from alighting in
quest of water, by which the letter might sustain injury. Pigeons intended for this use must
be brought from the place to which they are to return, within a short period, and must be kept
in the dark and without food for at least eight hours before being let loose. The carrier pigeon
was of great service during the siege of Paris in 1871, and conveyed many important messages.
It goes through the air at the rate of thirty miles an hour, but has been known to fly even faster.

THE SIASIN, OR ANTELOPE OF INDIA.

The Siasin, or Antelope of India, roams over the open and rocky plains of that immense country.
It is distinguished from the rest of its family by the beauty and singular shape of its horns,
which are annulated or ringed, and spirally convoluted or curved together, making two or more
turns, according to the age of the animal. The fakirs and dervishes of India, who are enjoined
by their religion from carrying swords, frequently wear at their girdles the polished horns
of the siasin instead of the usual military arm. This antelope is one of the fleetest-footed
of its family, and its leap is something wonderful. It is not uncommon for it to vault to the
height of twelve or thirteen feet, passing over ten or twelve yards at a single bound. In color
it is almost black on the upper part of the body, and light-colored beneath. When full grown,
it is about the size of our common deer.

THE COMMON SNIPE.

These birds frequent swampy woods, marshes, morasses, and the borders of rivers. Their usual
time for seeking their food is early in the morning and during the twilight of the evening.
They subsist principally upon insects and worms; for these they search among the decayed leaves,
and probe the mud and ooze with their lengthened bills. When alarmed, they generally lie close
to the ground, or among the grass, or, suddenly starting on the wing, escape by flight, which
is short but elevated, rapid, and irregular. The eggs, which are four in number, are deposited
on the ground. In the snipe, and all its immediate allies, the bill is thickened, soft, and
very tender at its extremity; so that this part, which is richly supplied with nerves, serves
as a delicate organ of touch, and is used for searching in the soft ground for the insects
and worms that constitute the food of these birds.

D--THE DOE.

Graceful and gentle is the Doe;
  Its tawny coat how sleek!
How bright yet tender are its eyes!
  Its glance how softly meek!

E--THE EAGLE.

Upon the lonely mountain peak
  The eagle builds her nest,
And there, when weary of the chase,
  In silence takes her rest.

F--THE FOX.

The Fox will skulk in ferny brake,
  Yet loves the haunts of men;
And prowls around the farm, to pounce
  On capon, goose, or hen.

MRS. BUNNY AND FAMILY.

This wild Rabbit has been startled by some noise, and the next moment she may be scampering
away to her burrow, with the little bunnies, at the top of their speed, and crouch there until
all is quiet again. Rabbits usually select, if possible, a sandy soil overgrown with furze,
in which to make their burrows, as such a soil is easily removed, and the dense prickly furze
hides their retreat, whilst it affords them a wholesome and never-failing food. These furze
bushes are constantly eaten down, as far as the rabbits can reach standing on their hind legs,
and consequently present the appearance of a solid mass with the surface even and rounded.
These animals retire into their burrows by day to rest, and come out only in the twilight to
obtain food.

THE LYNX.

