On the next morning poor Mary Belton was too ill to come down-stairs; and as her brother spent
his whole day out upon the farm, remaining among reapers and wheat stacks till nine o'clock
in the evening, nothing was said about Clara on that day. Then there came a Sunday, and it
was a matter of course that the subject of which they both were thinking should be discussed.
Will went to church, and, as was their custom on Sundays, they dined immediately on his return.
Then, as the afternoon was very warm, he took her out to a favourite seat she had in the garden,
and it became impossible that they could longer abstain.

'And you really mean to go again at Christmas?' she asked.

'Certainly I shall I promised.'

'Then I am sure you will.'

'And I must go from time to time because of the land I have taken. Indeed there seems to be
an understanding that I am to manage the property for Mr Amedroz.'

'And does she wish you to go?'

'Yes she says so.'

'Girls, I believe, think sometimes that men are indifferent in their love. They suppose that
a man can forget it at once when he is not accepted, and that things can go on just as before.'

'I suppose she thinks so of me,' said Belton wofully.

'She must either think that, or else be willing to give herself the chance of learning to like
you better.'

'There's nothing of that, I'm sure. She's as true as steel.'

'But she would hardly want you to go there unless she thought you might overcome either your
love or her indifference. She would not wish you to be there that you might be miserable.'

'Before I had asked her to be my wife I had promised to be her brother. And so I will, if she
should ever want a brother. I am not going to desert her because she will not do what I want
her to do, or be what I want her to be. She understands that. There is to be no quarrel between
us.'

'But she would be heartless if she were to encourage you to be with her simply for the assistance
you may give her, knowing at the same time that you could not be happy in her presence.'

'She is not heartless.'

'Then she must suppose that you are.'

'I dare say she doesn't think that I care much about it. When I told her, I did it all of a
heap, you see; and I fancy she thought I was just mad at the time.'

'And did you speak about it again?'

'No; not a word. I shouldn't wonder if she hadn't forgotten it before I went away.'

'That would be impossible.'

'You wouldn't say so if you knew how it was done. It was all over in half an hour; and she
had given me such an answer that I thought I had no right to say anything more about it. The
morning when I left her she did seem to be kinder.'

'I wish I knew whether she cares for any one else.'

'Ah! I so often think of that. But I couldn't ask her, you know. I had no right to pry into
her secrets. When I came away, she got up to see me off; and I almost felt tempted to carry
her into the gig and drive her off.'

'I don't think that would have done, Will.'

'I don't suppose anything will do. We all know what happens to the child who cries for the
top brick of the chimney. The child has to do without it. The child goes to bed and forgets
it; but I go to bed and can't forget it.'

'My poor Will!'

Then he got up and shook himself, and stalked about the garden always keeping within a few
yards of his sister's chair and carried on a strong battle within his breast, struggling to
get the better of the weakness which his love produced, though resolved that the love itself
should be maintained.

'I wish it wasn't Sunday,' he said at last, 'because then I could go and do something. If I
thought that no one would see me, I'd fill a dung-cart or two, even though it is Sunday. I'll
tell you what I'll go and take a walk as far as Denvir Sluice; and I'll be hack to tea. You
won't mind?'

'Denvir Sluice is eight miles off.'

