The treacherous thing about a spinning-nose dive is that, to come out of it, a pilot must put
his stick forward, not hold it back, in spite of the fact that the machine is falling nose
first and spinning at the same time. A spin is possible only from a stall, and only when the
stick is back and rudder in either direction is given. The position is an easy one to get into
from a steep turn. Air resistance against a machine turning becomes greater, it slows down
the speed, decreases the lifting power of the planes. The result is that the nose falls slightly.
The pilot moves the stick back to lift the nose, and in doing so pulls up his elevators, offering
still more resistance to the air, and checking the speed. The effect becomes cumulative; he
tries to hold up his machine, and he has stalled. In a last effort to check the spin he kicks
on the rudder, and the thing is done.

The rudder and elevators have formed a pocket in the tail plane, which is like the spoon on
a trolling-hook. The pocket is off-center and the air rushes into it as the machine topples
over and plunges down. It imparts a twisting motion, which in a turn or two develops into a
throbbing spin. Picture the pilot, trying to lift the nose of his machine by holding his stick
well back and wondering why the nose does not come up. The pathetic thing is that so many hundred
men have thought their salvation was to hold the stick back.

The only possible thing to do in this case is to break the pocket. Put the stick forward to
neutral, or even farther if need be, and opposite rudder. The machine will come out in three-quarters
of a turn with practice, into a straight-nose dive. Then ease the stick back, and this time
the nose comes up and the machine flies on its course. Instructors who have taught their pupils
this before they let them go solo have saved many, many lives.

It is reasonable to say that there are no fatal accidents except those from a spin, but, like
all general statements, that is open to contradiction. A nose-high side-slip may be fatal,
but generally the pilot pulls himself out of it. There may have been men killed in landing
accidents, but one seldom hears of them. Men have been killed trying to loop off the ground,
and Vernon Castle was killed doing an Immelmann turn at fifty feet to avoid another machine.
These are the exceptions. The common or garden variety of accident is from a spin. The spin
once conquered, the air is conquered.

One hears about stunting, and the accidents which result from taking chances in the air. There
may be two opinions about whether for the flying of the future it should be necessary to loop,
to roll, to half roll, and stall turn, or even to spin. As to looping and rolling, the question
of the type of machine to be flown will determine that largely. There are many machines which
cannot be looped. The large naval flying-boats, for instance, describe a circle two thousand
feet in diameter for each turnover--it is almost obvious that not much stunting is done on
these boats. A small scout or sporting plane can loop and come out higher than it went in.

There is certain value in practising such maneuvers if the machine will permit it. In battle
they are, of course, essential. In peace, however, they may be valuable for the very fact that
it accustoms a pilot to unexpected changes in the air. He gets used to the idea that he can
pull himself out of any position, given air enough, and he will never be afraid. He becomes
orientated on his back, does not lose his head, and simply waits with confidence for his machine
to come around. This means that if he is suddenly overturned by accident, or for a minute or
two loses control, he knows that his condition is temporary and that he must simply "carry on."

