When, eventually, the signal was given for commencing business, it was a fine thing to see
how beautifully submissive the deputy had become. He began by declaring that he could not arrange
the matter, but must refer it to his chief, and wanted much to put off the discussion till
that functionary should arrive. On this it was hinted to him, that it would have been polite
and proper had that gentleman remained in the way to settle the row, which had occurred by
his own fault, but that we could not await his return. Either must they undertake at once to
make full reparation for the wounded dignity of the Consul, and for the injurious treatment
of the Ionian, or they would see what they should see. It needed little pressing on our part
to break down the feint which had been set up by way of opposition. The deputy soon declared
that all should be as we wished. He still stuck to his declaration, that the actual settlement
of the business was beyond his province, and that he must wait for the sanction of his commanding
officer. But meanwhile he took upon himself to declare the terms on which things might be considered
virtually settled; and they were, that we were to have everything our own way. This result
was obtained by us without recourse had to any thing like bullying; and we were able, in this
instance, to behave in a more civilised manner, because we were backed by so much real authority,
and show of present power. But little doubt is there, that, however unfavourable the inference
with respect to Turkish sense and honesty, the mode most commonly to be recommended in dealings
with them, is by in terrorem proceeding. They cannot understand the co-ordinate existence,
of power and moderation. Very good fun will sometimes be enacted by the knowing for the cowing
of a pasha; and in almost any case the only fear of échouance is where there may exist too
much modesty. But only bully hard, and you are tolerably sure to gain your point. It is by
no means necessary that your arguments should carry the cogent force of soundness. Appearances
are what weigh chiefly with those whose habits of thinking do not dispose them to discuss argument.
One sharp-witted fellow that I knew brought to successful issue a decisive experiment on the
readiness of pashas to be taken in by mere sound. He went into the vice-regal presence, attended
by a dragoman whom he had previously instructed in the subject-matter to be propounded--some
question of redress for grievance. It was necessary that he should say something on the occasion,
and afford the appearance of telling the dragoman what to say: but as this person already knew
his lesson, it was not necessary that what he said should be to him intelligible. Nothing occurred
to him as likely to be more effective in delivery than the celebrated speech of Norval about
the Grampian hills; which accordingly he recited with due emphasis, standing up to give the
better effect to the scene. The end desired was fully attained. The pasha opened wide eyes,
as the actor grew excited, and was visibly affected by the assumption of towering passion.
He soon began to try to pacify him, and beg him to be easy. "Inshalla! all should be as he
wished." The upshot of our argument with the deputy Caimacan was, that he would send immediately
to his chief, for a confirmation of the pacification between us, and that meanwhile we were
to amuse ourselves as well as we could. But for all we saw, amusement was one of the good things
not easily to be had at Adalia. It is so deeply retired in uncivilisation, and so wanting withal
in the excitements of energetic barbarism, that human life is there tamed down to the most
passionless condition. It was, too, notwithstanding the season, a time of unusual commercial
enterprise just then. It was the year of the murrain in Egypt, which destroyed so enormous
a proportion of their cattle; and Mehemet Ali was sending in all directions to purchase horses,
asses, and kine. A large corvette of his came in while we were there, on this service. She
had landed her guns, and was filling her deck with livestock. There was also a deal of business
going on just then in the timber line. But little evidence of this brisk state of the markets
was given by the people. A good many visitors certainly came off to see us; but that was rather
a reason why we should have accused the populace of idleness. We were struck with the appearance
of many of the old fellows who honoured us with visits. They retained, without exception, the
orthodox dress and beard of the old school. Among them were a great number of the green turbans,
which mark the sacred person of the "Hadji." Such a clustering of these distinguished characters
made us fancy at first that Adalia itself must be invested with the idea of some peculiar sanctity.
But we found that these gentlemen were merely en route, tarrying at Adalia, a great point of
embarkation, for opportunity to pursue their journey. The place is in one of the great high
roads to the Hedjaz: and of the swarms who pass through it every year, many pilgrims have not
sufficient funds to defray the expense of travelling either way. It then becomes a work of
charity for the more opulent of the faithful to speed them on the journey. But that they depend
on such means of travelling is reason sufficient to account for long in their line of locomotion,
and for their congregating here in considerable numbers. Of all places likely to maintain the
constant infection of plague, this must be one of the first: for notoriously among no people
is the disease so rife as among the pilgrims.

The worthy consul did his best to embellish the days of our sojourn with pleasurable episodes.
Society there was not likely to be any; but yet such as, for want of better, they had, he undertook
to show us. He really seemed very much obliged to us for our opportune visit, and said that
it would be the making of him. It certainly did seem to be quite necessary to the maintaining
of the dignity of his office. One invitation we had from a merchant of the place, a man whom
they described as being very rich and of great influence; and a plan was laid for our having
a picnic in the country. There is a place in the neighbourhood of the town which has been prepared
expressly for the use of those who make rural excursions. A thick grove of trees keeps off
the sun, and soft turf lends a seat to the revellers. We could make out the top of the trees
from the anchorage, for the country is of an elevated character, hanging out on lofty cliffs
the different features of its panorama. The effect produced by this arrangement of the scenery
is highly beautiful. It has in profusion one element of the beautiful, and that is the feature
of cascade. There is in one point a congress of waterfalls, whereat may be counted no less
than nine separate streams, which pour down their abundance from the cliffs into the sea. The
good consul and his satellites bore us pretty constant company; and of great service they were
in preserving order among the motley crew that constantly thronged our decks. We did not like
to qualify the good report we had so far gained and maintained, by any exhibition of harshness
towards the mob. But the sturdy janissary of Mr ---- thought nothing of laying his stick across
a fellow's shoulders, by way of reminder to behave himself. I must say that many of them deserved
it, and for their sakes can but hope that they profited by the attention.

Mr ---- had two men in attendance upon him, without whom he never stirred abroad. They were
brothers, but filled situations of different rank. One was dragoman, a post of which the occupation
entitled him to the consideration of a gentleman; the other was merely henchman or janissary,
of which dignity the allocation is in the kitchen. I remember that it pained me to see one
brother walk in to dinner, while the other poor fellow had to keep guard without. But they
seemed well used to the enforcement of the distinction, and to find therein nothing of invidiousness.
Fine fellows were they both, and highly lauded by their master. There is surely something extraordinary
in these instances, where men are brought to devote themselves implicitly to a foreign service,
in the heart of their country, and amid the full play of national prejudices. That they really
are faithful followers, is I believe beyond doubt; and that sometimes under trying circumstances.
With these two individuals especially, we had so much intercourse, that we were enabled to
see how admiration for the English entered into the main current of their feelings. It so happened
that we had come here to the very place where that early victim to the zeal of travel, Mr Daniels,
had shortly before met his doom. While following in the track of Mr Fellowes, he caught the
fatal Xanthian fever; and after many relapses died here. That these men were very kind and
attentive to him may be argument only of their humanity. But there was something in the emotion
with which they spoke of him, that betokened a sense of fellowship, beyond what men of such
differing creeds are apt to feel for a travelling stranger. They spoke of sitting up with him
at night, giving him his medicine, and weeping for him, when there remained no room for active
solicitude. The idea of dying amidst strangers in a foreign land, with no familiar face at
the bed-side, is a desolation whose thought cannot pass over the spirit without beclouding
its sunniness. And yet we may rely upon it, that amongst those most affectionately tended and
most generously wept, have been they who have met their last hour under such circumstances.
Human hearts all vibrate in harmony to one chord: in the good this sympathy is ready; in the
bad it is dulled; but never while life and hope remain, can the silver chord be said to be
cut. And so it is, that the same image of the forlorn, which, as affecting any that we love,
appeals at once to the deep wells of compassion, will cause the same feeling of compassion
to thrill with the remotest stragglers of the family of Adam. It is not a matter of reasoning,
but an instinct. There is in the sight of helpless suffering a power to disarm human ferocity.
And if that be the gentlest death-pillow that is breathed upon by the prayer and lighted by
the eye of family love, depend upon it that far from the ungentlest is that, whose presence
has brought to rude and rough natures the putting off of their roughness, and the recognising
of the sweet faculty of compassion. Happy is that desolation, even in the last hour, which
can awaken the heaven-like eagerness to be to the dying one a minister from his far-off home!
A man might be happy so to die, that he might light up so much of heaven within a human breast.

Both these attachés of the consulate were men of note. The dragoman had been captain of a troop
of cavalry in the service of Mehemet Ali, and on some quarrel with his commanding officer had
left the service and kingdom. He was a person of polished manners, and some education, and
thus enabled to produce agreeably in conversation the results of his experience of many lands
and people. He rather astonished us with the extent to which he carried jeune France principles,
that seem so entirely incompatible with the holding of Mahomedanism. But wonderful it is to
see how the French spirit circulates in the most apathetic societies, seeming to find in them
a latent vitality suited to its purpose. The manners of a Mussulman are so stereotyped, and
his subjects of conversation so provided for by law, that it seemed quite an anomaly to see
this Turk drinking wine after dinner, and talking like a man of the world. It would not seem
that such an effect on the personal character is the invariable result of educating a Turk
in Paris, though such an effect is exactly what we might expect. I have met a native of Constantinople,
who had brought back with him from France only the language and the personal deportment, retaining
withal the anti-reforming spirit of his orthodox brethren. But this spirit of resistance to
innovation is fast fading away; and as innovation once begun here must lead to revolution,
it is not difficult to foresee that a few more years only shall have passed, when the character
of the Turk will have become historical, and the scenes that at present embellish their corner
of the world, will have to be sought for in the descriptions of pen and pencil. Whether the
influence emanate from the throne, or whether the court be following the popular metropolitan
movement, it is difficult to say. But among them is assuredly at work the spirit of change,
that must shortly carry away the mouldering edifice of their present institutions. This is
something too vetust to abide the shock of any agitation. Let us hope that their changes may
be successively biassed towards the better: may they acquire the urbanity of our great masters
in elegance, without their profligacy; and if they reject Mahomedanism, may it be to receive
in exchange something better than mere infidelity.

The brother of the ci-devant captain was a quiet, unassuming fellow, who wanted language to
communicate with us freely. Nevertheless he managed to interest us much, with an account of
the sufferings and trials of his youth. They were by birth Moreote Turks; and in the revolution
of that country, when first the Greeks arose against their Turkish masters, (for really one
must particularise in talking of Greek revolutions,) they had suffered the loss of all their
protecting kindred, and hardly, children as they were, by some kindly intervention, been themselves
saved. It is a sad thing, but a truth, that in this exterminating war, the cold-blooded massacreing
was not all on one side. The horror and hatred of these deeds have, with their infamy, rested
chiefly on the Turks, because theirs was the power to exceed in enormity; but the black veil
of guilt rests on both sides of the strife. Still, however blameable the Greeks may be, for
the cruelty committed on occasion, they were far from having power to work the enormous destruction
of harmless life, whose memory still weighs on the Turkish power, and whose record is still
extant in the evidence of ruined and dispeopled cities. But a short time before coming to Adalia,
we had visited the island of Scio--that island which once was the garden of the Levant, and
the storehouse of her riches. Even now, the great majority of the Greek merchants who are so
prosperous a body in London, are Sciotes; and in those days they had pretty well all the commerce
of the Levant in their hands. They delighted themselves in adorning their beautiful island
with the artifices which money can command to the decorating of nature. At present a mass of
ruins defaces that lovely spot. One is disposed to wonder that the Turks have never been at
the pains to clear away the wreck of the town, if only for the sake of removing the monument
of their cruelty. Mere selfish motives might induce them to be at that pains, and to restore
this island to its former fitness for the habitations of the rich. At present it is one wide
ruin; noble streets are there, with the shells of their houses remaining, as they were left
in the day of massacre and pillage. The few inhabitants are stowed away in the one or two odd
rooms of the old mansions that remain; being now reduced to such poverty that they have had
neither spirit nor money to build for themselves; and probably finding it more congenial to
the present spirit of their fortunes to roost among the bats and owls, rather than in trim
streets. One occurrence gave us much pleasure, because it gave the lie to a story which has
many abettors. It is said that when the garrison in the fortress, and the fleet before the
town, were promoting the havoc, the English consul, from some punctilio on the subject of neutrality,
refused shelter to the miserables who fled to his threshold. One old woman, in the story of
her sufferings, gave us a full contradiction to this most incredible tradition. She had invited
us into her dwelling to look at her wares, in the shape of conserves and purses--a strange
combination, but nevertheless the articles by the sale of which they eke out their living.
We were fully consoled for the trouble of passing over and through the debris of some half-dozen
houses which lay between us and her domicile. It came out that she herself had been saved by
flying to the English consulate. It was a comfort to hear this--and to hear it in a way that
involved the fact of an indefinite number of refugees having found the same shelter. Many rejoice
to say that the French consul was the only efficient protector in that day of horror; and of
these times, though so recent, it is not easy always to get such correct information as may
sustain a contradiction of popular report.

In a country of such limited resources in the way of amusement, it was not very easy for our
zealous friends to cater for us, during the long days that we had to await the answer from
the Caimacan. Riding was out of the question, and there were no antiquities within reach. Thus
were we cut off from the two great resources of men in our position. But they played their
part of entertainers hospitably and well. They told us long stories of the courts, and of what
was to be seen in actual service in the camp of the Egyptian viceroy. Above all, they did us
good by showing how thoroughly happy the whole party had been rendered by our coming. We were
only afraid that they might become a little too bumptious on the strength of it, and be after
giving us another job. But they did more than simply bear us company; they bore us to the cool
grove, which I have said we could descry from the deck of our ship, there to be introduced
to certain worthies, and to make kef in their company. Nothing to my mind comes up to an al
fresco entertainment--in proper season and country, be it understood; for an English gipsy
party is a very different affair.

Our host conceived it to be a duty incumbent on him to develop, on this occasion, the full
power of the resources of Adalia. We should have been far better satisfied if he had contented
himself with doing things in a smaller way; but he was bent on magnificence. It was quite treat
enough to lie on the soft turf, with the thick shade above, and to allow the hours to pass
away as they led on evening. But he had been at the trouble to retain a band of musicians for
our sakes. Such a set they were!--surpassing, in discordant prowess, the worst street musicians
among our beggar melodists. It is quite surprising that invention has so long slumbered with
these native artistes. With Musard concerts and Wilhelm music-meetings all around them, it
is wonderful that they do not catch the note of something better than their villanous mandolins
and single-noted pipes. Does any one need to be told what a mandolin is? It is something very
different, let me assure him, from the ideal instrument of Moore's Melodies. Not even the lovely
maidens that Moore paints could render tolerable a performance upon it; whereas it is made
to resound by some especially ugly fellow, whose rascality of appearance, is relieved by no
touch of the poetic. I did once hear a Turco-Greek lady perform, and on a more civilised instrument--a
lady of high reputation as a performer on the guitar and a vocalist. And seldom has the spirit
of romantic preparation received a more sudden chill than did mine on that occasion. Nothing
could be more outrageously absurd than the whole thing was--accompaniment and song. I never
afterwards was solicitous to hear an Oriental's musical performance; and am quite satisfied,
that in them dwells no musical faculty, creative or perceptive: or that at least it is in a
dormant state.

These musicians began with a symphony on the full band--mandolins leading, drums doing bass,
and the whole lot of ugly fellows screeching forth what might have been esteemed air or accompaniment,
as the case might be. That a sorry musical effect was produced will surprise no one who considers
the build of the most musical of their instruments. The mandolin is by way of being a guitar,
or banjo--only in a very small way indeed. Nothing has been added to the idea since first Mercury
stumbled on the original testudo--indeed, I should guess that the dried sinews of a tortoise
would give out a far purer sound than the jingling wires with which the mandolin is mounted.
I have sometimes stood at the door of a café, or, to give it the real name [Greek: kapheneion],
and listened in wonder to the strains of some minstrel holding forth within. The wonder was,
not that the man should play egregiously ill, but that the effect of good music should be produced
by his evil playing. The people were evidently excited to sorrow when the attempt was at a
mournful strain, and to ardour when the lilt took a loftier flight. To me who stood by, the
difference of intention on the part of the performer was hardly discernible; indeed to be recognised
only by the occasional catching of some familiar word in the burden of the song. The same observation
may apply to the current Greek poetry. There can be no mistake in the conclusion, that it produces
the effect of real poetry on the people, urging them in the direction whither works the imagination
of the poet. But men of taste have come to, and can come to, but one decision on the judgment
of Romaic poetasters. The spirit of poetry has died out of, and is become extinct from the
genius of their tongue. It is but the enthusiasm of by-gone days, the inkling of Attic glory,
that lingers about the circumstances of their modern productions, and cheats men with the mere
similarity of idiom. Poetry is of universal application, and were the pretensions of the modern
Greek genuine, his productions would touch the hearts of the poetic of other lands.

These fellows who entertained us on this occasion, struck a good deal of enthusiasm out of
their jingle,--enthusiasm to themselves, be it remarked, and not to us. I saw them grow sad
in face, while the strain proceeded at a slow pace, and the voce di canto degenerated into
a more lugubrious howl than ever. By these tokens, I judged them to be singing some tale of
sorrow, and so it seemed they were. The gentleman who performed for us the part of Chorus,
gave us to wit, that they were lamenting the fall of Algiers, and imprecating maledictions
on the head of the French. This they evidently considered a delicate and appropriate attention
to us as Englishmen. I was only surprised to find they entered so far into the family distinctions
of the Franks. There was some heart, too, in the manner in which they gesticulated and declaimed;
and I have little doubt but that they were in earnest--especially if any of these happened
to have friends or relations down that way, who had been roused out of house and home by the
Gallic Avatar. When they were tired with singing, or perhaps presumed that they had therewith
tired us, they took to playing the fool. Not merely in a general sense, in which they may be
said to have been so engaged all along; but with heavy effort, and under the express direction
of a professional master of the ceremonies. The Adalian jester was a tall ugly fellow, who
had considerable power of comic expression in his face, but whose forte lay in a cap of fantastic
device. It was made of the skin of some animal, whose genus I will not venture to guess; and
had been contrived in such fashion that the tail hung over the top, and whisked about at the
caprice of the wearer. This was a never-failing source of amusement to the performer himself,
as well as to the native bystanders. As he bobbed his head up and down, and ran after this
tail, the people burst into peals of laughter. They were quite taken up with the exhibition,
except when they stole a moment now and then for a peep to see how the Frank visitors were
amused with their wit. Besides this, the jester had a number of practical jokes, such as coming
quietly along-side of some unsuspecting person, and catching hold of his leg, barking loudly
the while, so as to make him think that some dog had bitten him. But this part of the performance
was decidedly coarse, and did not improve our idea of the civilisation of the place. A good
deal of sketching was going on in the course of this day; and the visages of some of these
musicians, and especially of the jester, and of a blind old choragus, have been handed down
to the posterity of our affectionate friends. We had a visit this day of a gentler kind. A
Greek lady, the owner of considerable landed property in the place, came with her youthful
daughter to interchange civilities with us. She was a plain, almost ugly old woman; but, like
nine out of ten of all women extant, was of kind and feminine disposition. Moreover, like the
rest of the ladies, she was very fond of talking; but, on this particular occasion, unhappily
could speak no single word that would convey meaning to us. Still it was not to be expected
that she could hold her tongue; so she squatted down by us, and talked, perhaps all the faster
because she had the conversation all to herself. Her daughter was a young lady, whom by appearance
in England, you would call somewhere in her teens; but, hereaway they are so precocious that
one is constantly deceived in guessing their age. She would have been pretty if she had been
clean; and was abundantly and expensively ornamented. Sometimes we hear it figuratively said
of a domestic coquette, that she carries all her property on her back. These Greeks must be
well off, if it may not sometimes be so said with propriety of them. They have a plan of advertising
a young lady's assets, in a manner that must be most satisfactory to fortune-hunters, and prevent
the mistakes that with us constantly foil the best-laid plans. They turn a girl's fortune into
money, and hang it--it, the fortune proper--the [Greek: poion] and the [Greek: poson]--about
her neck. They do not buy jewels worth so many hundreds or tens--but transpierce the actual
coin, and of them compose a necklace of whose value there can be no doubt, and whose fashion
is not very variable. This may be called a fair and above-board way of doing things. The swain,
as he sits by the beloved object, may amuse himself by counting the number of precious links
in the chain that is drawing him into matrimony, and debate within himself, on sure data, the
question whether or no he shall yield to the gentle influence. There would not have been much
doubt about the monetary recommendations of this young lady, for she was abundantly gilt, as
became the daughter of one reputed so rich as the old lady. Poor girls! It makes one sad to
look upon them, brought up with so little idea of what is girlish and beautiful; to see them
ignorant yet sophisticated, bejeweled and unwashed. This poor child was decked out in the most
absurd manner, and sat for admiration most palpably. She also sat for something else, which
was her picture. This was taken by several of the party, so much to the satisfaction of mother
and daughter, that the old lady insisted on taking her turn as model. We invariably found them
pleased with the productions of our art in these cases, and satisfied of the correctness of
the likeness. The only objections they would occasionally make, would refer to the pretermission
of some such thing as a tassel in the cap. The fidelity of the likeness they took implicitly
on trust.

I have said we could not talk to this old lady, Greek though she was, furnished though some
of us were with the language of her compatriots. The deficiency was on her part--not on ours.
She could not speak one single word of her own language. And so it is, that of all the Greeks
of Adalia, not one can converse in the language of their fathers. Separated from their countrymen,
they have become almost a distinct race; and, losing that language of which they have no practice,
have learnt to use as their own the vernacular of the land in which they are immigrants of
such antique standing. They talk Turkish--live almost like Turks; and by their religion only
are distinguished from their neighbours. For religious purposes they use their own language:
and, by consequence, understand no single word of the ritual or lessons. This is certainly
a singular national position--impossible, except from religious prevention. It is just the
reverse of what may be seen elsewhere: for instance, in the mountains of Thessaly you find
a colony of Germans, who, though completely shut in by the people of the land, and holding
intercourse with none other, remain foreigners and Germans, resisting the tendency to amalgamation.
So in Sicily you find the Piana della Grecia, where the original Greek colonists have kept
their language and customs in their integrity. But where else, save in this one spot, will
you find people who, after having imbibed the influences of the country to the extent of adoption
of its language, have been able to resist amalgamation with its denizens in every respect?

By the bye, these people have opened a sort of royal road to the acquisition of the Turkish
language. The orthography of this language is a most vexed and perplexed affair. Those who
have made the attempt to master its difficulties may say something in its vituperation; but
the practice of many of those who are well acquainted therewith, says a great deal more. These
Greeks, for instance, though they have adopted this language as their own, and have been accustomed
in no other to lisp to their nurses, have altogether discarded the orthography. They speak
as do the natives, but write in their own character; accommodating the flexible capabilities
of their alphabet to the purposes of Turkish orthoepy. Thus have you the means of reading Turkish
in a familiar character, which also has the advantage of presenting your words in a definite
form. The real Turkish alphabet is any thing but definite; at least to one within any decent
term of years of his commencing the study. This is a mode of teaching which I have known to
be insisted on by at least one good master: though of course the man of any ambition would
regard this byway to knowledge as merely a step preliminary in the course.

This was not the only party at which we assisted during our visit. A rich Greek merchant invited
us to enjoy the coolness of evening in his gardens. It was duly impressed on our minds by the
gentleman of the place that this old fellow was worth his weight in gold. They did say that
his name was good for £150,000--a long figure, certainly, to meet in such a place. He was a
quiet-looking, unpretending person, with very much the air of a moneyed man. The hope that
we had formed of seeing a display of the youth and fashion of Adalia was disappointed. It was
by all express relaxation of the law of etiquette that we had the opportunity of seeing even
the one or two ladies belonging to the family. Greeks, in their own country, though exceedingly
jealous, and apt to build up alarms on the slightest foundation, are yet by no means chary
in showing their women. In-doors and out, you will meet them, both old and young; and perfectly
unconstrained and companionable you will find them. But here the case is far otherwise. They
have acquired so much of Mussulman notions, that they do not allow their women to mix in society.
This is the general rule: more pliant to occasion than the law of the Turks, which never yields.
And not only here is there a strong feeling on this subject: the same prejudice prevails widely
in the Turco-Greek islands. For instance, in Mytilene, on occasion of taking that long excursion
which I have already mentioned, we observed that all the women we met were old and ugly. From
this observed fact we drew conclusions unfavourable to the general appearance and presentability
of the Mytilenian ladies. But subsequently we found the reason of the phenomenon to be, that
the young and pretty girls were kept within doors, and the old ones alone allowed the privilege
of walking forth--a difference of condition that might almost induce the girls of Mytilene
to wish for age and wrinkles.

They did not, at Adalia, use us quite so ill as to withhold their ladies from the entertainment.
The mother was there and a daughter--a young lady with the romantic name of Dúdù. With such
a name as this she ought to have been very pretty, and certainly she did not fall far short
of such condition. It was clearly to be perceived that she was unaccustomed to mix in general
society, and that the company of strange men disturbed her. But she was not ungraceful either
in manner or dress, or in her evident desire to please. The place of our reception was in the
central court, which the best kind of houses preserve--a contrivance which gives to each of
the four sides on which the building is disposed, the advantages of a pure and thorough current
of air. Here we sat drinking sherbet, and, of course, smoking the unfailing chibouque. The
lady mother was painfully anxious to talk to us, and pretty Miss Dúdù was seriously bent on
listening; but we could not manage to execute a colloquy. All the civil things imaginable were
expressed to us by gesture, and the young lady came out strong in the presentation of bouquets.
One fortunate man received from her an orange, the only one remaining at that time in the garden;
this we persuaded ourselves must, in their symbolical language, imply a declaration of some
soft interest. Miss Dúdù would not have been such a very bad parti, being, as she was, the
sole heritress of her father's thousands. However, she was, we understood, engaged already
to a youth, who was obeying the cruel law prevalent in this place, which compels the accepted
swain to absent himself from his inamorata for a long probation. I think the time was said
to be a year; during which no communication must pass between the parties. Should the first
overtures of a suitor be rejected, it is a settled matter of etiquette, that he never again
is to see or speak to the young lady. This must be likely, we would think, to render a man
cautious in proposing: but certainly it must tend to lessen the number of eventual old maids,
by rendering the young ladies also chary of saying No, when they mean Yes. On the whole, we
can scarcely admire their matrimonial tactics. We found that we were among a family of Hádjis.
Miss Dúdù was a Hadji, and so were her father and mother. In their case the place of pilgrimage
is Jerusalem, a visit to which confers on them the respectable title of Hadji for life. This
old gentleman had made a pious use of some of his money, by promoting the cause of pilgrimage
among his less opulent brethren. The desire to tread the holy soil is common to them all; not
only to the religious. These have their motives; but so also have the disorderly and wicked,
who think that a world of cheating and ill-living is covered over by the wholesome cloak of
pilgrimage. There are also certain less considerable places of pilgrimage, invested with considerable
sanctity, though inferior in character to the one great rendezvous of the religious. Health
to body seems often the expected result of visits to these secondary places, to which recourse
will frequently be had when medical aid has failed to be available. Dúdù's father had made
himself highly popular by chartering a vessel, and conveying, for charity's sake, as many devotees
as chose to go on one of these minor expeditions. The island of Cyprus has a convent of peculiar
sanctity, a visit to which is highly esteemed as an antidote to bodily ills. He gave a great
number the opportunity of testing the truth of the tradition.

It was not bad fun, after all, tarrying a few days in Adalia: only, by choice, we would hardly
choose that particular season for the excursion. What between the Consul's gardens, and the
old Greek, and the little bit of business we had upon our hands, we managed to get through
the time pleasantly enough. We saw that we had here a good specimen of the variety of life
commonly described as deadly-lively. Were it not that they have such a lot of strangers constantly
passing through the place, they might seem to be in danger of a moralanchylosis--of falling
into a state of mind so rusty, as to be incapable of direction to any object, save such as
lay before them, in the way of immediate physical requirement. The few days that we remained
there did not afford time enough for the disease to make much head with us. Indeed, for us
it was a variety of experience, sufficiently stirring for the time, to mark the ways of a people
so deeply buried in imperturbability and incuriosity.

I think we were not sorry when at last the messenger returned from the Caimacan, and we found
we were in condition to leave the place. The Consul was set on his legs again, and the English
name in better odour than ever. The attachés of the consulate had taken care that our visit
should fail in no degree of its wholesome influence, for want of their good word; and I fancy
that the town's people thought themselves rather well off that we left their town standing.
We left, too, with the full reputation for merciful dealing; as we had spared the poor soap-rioters
the infliction of the bastinado.

And so we sped on our way to Rhodes.

PACIFIC ROVINGS.[C]

We were much puzzled, a few weeks since, by a tantalising and unintelligible paragraph, pertinaciously
reiterated in the London newspapers. Its brevity equalled its mystery; it consisted but of
five words, the first and last in imposing majuscules. Thus it ran:--

    "OMOO, by the author of TYPEE."

With Trinculo we exclaimed, "What have we here? a man or a fish? dead or alive?" Who or what
were Typee and Omoo? Were things or creatures thus designated? Did they exist on the earth,
or in the air, or in the waters under the earth; were they spiritual or material, vegetable
or mineral, brute or human? Were they newly-discovered planets, nicknamed whilst awaiting baptism,
or strange fossils, contemporaries of the Megatherium, or Magyar dissyllables from Dr Bowring's
vocabulary? Perchance they were a pair of new singers for the Garden, or a fresh brace of beasts
for the legitimate drama at Drury. Omoo might be the heavy elephant; Typee the light-comedy
camel. Did danger lurk in the enigmatical words? Were they obscure intimations of treasonable
designs, Swing advertisements, or masonic signs? Was the palace at Westminster in peril? had
an agent of sure of Barbarossa Joinville undermined the Trafalgar column? Were they conspirators'
watchwords, lovers' letters, signals concerted between the robbers of Rogers's bank? We tried
them anagrammatically, but in vain: there was nought to be made of Omoo; shake it as we would,
the O's came uppermost; and by reversing Typee we obtained but a pitiful result. At last a
bright gleam broke through the mist of conjecture. Omoo was a book. The outlandish title that
had perplexed us was intended to perplex; it was a bait thrown out to that wide-mouthed fish,
the public; a specimen of what is theatrically styled gag. Having but an indifferent opinion
of books ushered into existence by such charlatanical manoeuvres, we thought no more of Omoo,
until, musing the other day over our matutinal hyson, the volume itself was laid before us,
and we suddenly found ourselves in the entertaining society of Marquesan Melville, the phoenix
of modern voyagers, sprung, it would seem, from the mingled ashes of Captain Cook and Robin Crusoe.

Those who have read M. Herman Melville's former work will remember, those who have not are
informed by the introduction to the present one, that the author, an educated American, whom
circumstances had shipped as a common sailor on board a South-Seaman, was left by his vessel
on the island of Nukuheva, one of the Marquesan group. Here he remained some months, until
taken off by a Sydney whaler, short-handed, and glad to catch him. At this point of his adventures
he commences Omoo. The title is borrowed from the dialect of the Marquesas, and signifies a
rover: the book is excellent, quite first-rate, the "clear grit," as Mr Melville's countrymen
would say. Its chief fault, almost its only one, interferes little with the pleasure of reading
it, will escape many, and is hardly worth insisting upon. Omoo is of the order composite, a
skilfully concocted Robinsonade, where fictitious incident is ingeniously blended with genuine
information. Doubtless its author has visited the countries he describes, but not in the capacity
he states. He is no Munchausen; there is nothing improbable in his adventures, save their occurrence
to himself, and that he should have been a man before the mast on board South-Sea traders,
or whalers, or on any ship or ships whatever. His speech betrayeth him. His voyages and wanderings
commenced, according to his own account, at least as far back as the year 1838; for aught we
know they are not yet at an end. On leaving Tahiti in 1843, he made sail for Japan, and the
very book before us may have been scribbled on the greasy deck of a whaler, whilst floating
amidst the coral reefs of the wide Pacific. True that in his preface, and in the month of January
of the present year, Mr Melville hails from New York; but in such matters we really place little
dependence upon him. From his narrative we gather that this literary and gentlemanly common-sailor
is quite a young man. His life, therefore, since he emerged from boyhood, has been spent in
a ship's forecastle, amongst the wildest and most ignorant class of mariners. Yet his tone
is refined and well-bred; he writes like one accustomed to good European society, who has read
books and collected stores of information, other than could be perused or gathered in the places
and amongst the rude associates he describes. These inconsistencies are glaring, and can hardly
be explained. A wild freak or unfortunate act of folly, or a boyish thirst for adventure, sometimes
drives lads of education to try life before the mast, but when suited for better things they
seldom persevere; and Mr Melville does not seem to us the manner of man to rest long contented
with the coarse company and humble lot of merchant seamen. Other discrepancies strike us in
his book and character. The train of suspicion once lighted, the flame runs rapidly along.
Our misgivings begin with the title-page. "Lovel or Belville," says the Laird of Monkbarns,
"are just the names which youngsters are apt to assume on such occasions." And Herman Melville
sounds to us vastly like the harmonious and carefully selected appellation of an imaginary
hero of romance. Separately the names are not uncommon; we can urge no valid reason against
their junction, and yet in this instance they fall suspiciously on our ear. We are similarly
impressed by the dedication. Of the existence of Uncle Gansevoort, of Gansevoort, Saratoga
County, we are wholly incredulous. We shall commission our New York correspondents to inquire
as to the reality of Mr Melville's avuncular relative, and, until certified of his corporality,
shall set down the gentleman with the Dutch patronymic as a member of an imaginary clan.

Although glad to escape from Nukuheva, where he had been held in a sort of honourable captivity,
Typee--the alias bestowed upon the rover by his new shipmates, after the valley whence they
rescued him--was but indifferently pleased with the vessel on which he left it, and whose articles
he signed as a seaman for one cruise. The Julia was of a beautiful model, and on or before
a wind she sailed like a witch; but that was all that could be said in her praise. She was
rotten to the core, incommodious, and ill-provided, badly manned, and worse commanded. American-built,
she dated from the Short war, had served as a privateer, been taken by the British, passed
through many vicissitudes, and was in no condition for a long cruise in the Pacific. So mouldering
was her fabric, that the reckless sailors, when seated in the forecastle, dug their knives
into the dank boards between them and eternity as easily as into the moist sides of some old
pollard oak. She was much dilapidated and rapidly becoming more so; for Black Baltimore, the
ship's cook, when in want of firewood, did not scruple to hack splinters from the bits and
beams. Lugubrious indeed was the aspect of the forecastle. Landsmen, whose ideas of a sailor's
sleeping-place are taken from the snow-white hammocks and exquisitely clean berth-deck of a
man of war, or from the rough, but substantial comfort of a well-appointed merchantman, can
form no conception of the surpassing and countless abominations of a South-Sea whaler. The
"Little Jule," as her crew affectionately styled her, was a craft of two hundred tons or thereabouts;
she had sailed with thirty-two hands, whom desertion had reduced to twenty, but these were
too many for the cramped and putrid nook in which they slept, ate, and smoked, and alternately
desponded or were jovial, as sickness and discomfort, or a Saturday night's bottle and hopes
of better luck, got the upper hand. Want of room, however, was one of the least grievances
of which the Julia's crew complained. It was a mere trifle, not worth the naming. They could
have submitted to close stowage had the dunnage been decent. But instead of swinging in cosy
hammocks, they slept in bunks or wretched pigeon-holes, on fragments of sails, unclean rags,
blanket-shreds, and the like. Such unenviable accommodations ought hardly to have been disputed
with their luckless possessors, who nevertheless were not allowed to occupy in peace their
broken-down bunks and scanty bedding. Two races of creatures, time out of mind the curse of
old ships in warm latitudes, infested the Julia's forecastle, resisting all efforts to dislodge
or exterminate them, sometimes even getting the upper hand, dispossessing the tortured mariners,
and driving them on deck in terror and despair. The sick only, hapless martyrs unable to leave
their cribs, lay passive, if not resigned, and were trampled under foot by their ferocious
and unfragrant foes. These were rats and cockroaches. Typee--we use the name he bore during
his Julian tribulations--records a singular phenomenon in the nocturnal habits of the last-named
vermin. Persons there are, weak enough to view with loathing and aversion certain sable insects
that stray at night in kitchen or in pantry, and barbarous enough to circumvent and destroy
the odoriferous coleopteræ by artful devices of glass traps and scarlet wafers. Such persons
will probably form their ideas of Typee's cockroaches from their own domestic opportunities
of observation. That were unjust to the crew of the Julia, and would give no adequate idea
of their sufferings. As a purring tabby to a roaring jaguar, so is a British black-beetle to
a cock-roach of the Southern Seas. We back our assertion by a quotation from our lamented friend
Captain Cringle, who in his especially graphic and attractive style thus hits off the peculiarities
of this graceful insect. A description worthy of Buffon. Such were the delicate monsters, the
savoury sexipedes, with whom Typee and his comrades had to wage incessant war. They were worse
even than the rats, which were certainly bad enough. There were no delicate feeders on board,
but this saccharine essence of rat was too much even for the unscrupulous stomachs of South-Sea
whalers. A queer set they were on board that Sydney barque. Paper Jack, the captain, was a
feeble Cockney, of meek spirit and puny frame, who glided about the vessel in a nankeen jacket
and canvass pumps, a laughing-stock to his crew. The real command devolved upon the chief mate,
John Jermin--a good sailor and brave fellow, but violent, and given to drink. The junior mate
had deserted; of the four harpooners only one was left, a fierce barbarian of a New Zealander--an
excellent mariner, whose stock of English was limited to nautical phrases and a frightful power
of oath, but who, in spite of his cannibal origin, ranked as a sort of officer, in virtue of
his harpoon, and took command of the ship when mate and captain were absent. What a capital
story, by the bye, Typee tells us of one of this Bembo's whaling exploits! New Zealanders are
brave and bloodthirsty, and excellent harpooners, and they act up to the South-Seaman's war-cry,
"A dead whale or a stove boat!" There is a world of wild romance and thrilling adventure in
the occasional glimpses of the whale fishery afforded us in Omoo; a strange picturesqueness
and piratical mystery about the lawless class of seamen engaged in it. Such a portrait gallery
as Typee makes out of the Julia's crew, beginning with Chips and Bungs, the carpenter and cooper,
the "Cods," or leaders of the forecastle, and descending until he arrives at poor Rope Yarn,
or Ropey, as he was called, a stunted journeyman baker from Holborn, the most helpless and
forlorn of all land-lubbers, the butt and drudge of the ship's company! A Dane, a Portuguese,
a Finlander, a savage from Hivarhoo, sundry English, Irish, and Americans, a daring Yankee
beach-comber, called Salem, and Sydney Ben, a runaway ticket-of-leave-man, made up a crew much
too weak to do any good in the whaling way. But the best fellow on board, and by far the most
remarkable, was a disciple of Esculapius, known as Doctor Long-Ghost. Jermin is a good portrait;
so is Captain Guy; but Long-Ghost is a jewel of a boy, a complete original, hit off with uncommon
felicity. Nothing is told us of his early life. Typee takes him up on board the Julia, shakes
hands with him in the last page of the book, and informs us that he has never since seen or
heard of him. So we become acquainted with but a small section of the doctor's life; his subsequent
adventures are unknown, and, save a chance hint or two, his previous career is a mystery, unfathomable
as the Tahitian coast, where, within a biscuit's toss of the coral shore, soundings there are
none. Now and then he would obscurely refer to days more palmy and prosperous than those spent
on board the Julia. But however great the contrast between his former fortunes and his then
lowly position, he exhibited much calm philosophy and cheerful resignation. He was even merry
and facetious, a practical wag of the very first order, and as such a great favourite with
the whole ship's company, the captain excepted. He had arrived at Sydney in an emigrant ship,
had expended his resources, and entered as doctor on board the Julia. All British whalers are
bound to carry a medico, who is treated as a gentleman, so long as he behaves as such, and
has nothing to do but to drug the men and play drafts with the captain. At first Long-Ghost
and Captain Guy hit it off very well; until, in an unlucky hour, a dispute about politics destroyed
their harmonious association. The captain got a thrashing; the mutinous doctor was put in confinement
and on bread and water, ran away from the ship, was pursued, captured, and again imprisoned.
Released at last, he resigned his office, refused to do duty, and went forward amongst the
men. This was more magnanimous than wise. Long-Ghost was a sort of medical Tom Coffin, a raw-boned
giant, upwards of two yards high, one of those men to whom the between-decks of a small craft
is a residence little less afflicting than one of Cardinal Balue's iron cages. And to one who
"had certainly, at some time or other, spent money, drunk Burgundy, and associated with gentlemen,"
the Julia's forecastle must have contained a host of disagreeables, irrespective of rats and
cockroaches, of its low roof, evil odours, damp timbers, and dungeon-like aspect. As regarded
society, he lost little by relinquishing that of Guy the Cockney, since he obtained in exchange
the intimacy of Melville the Yankee, who, to judge from his book, must be exceeding good company,
and to whom he was a great resource. The doctor was a man of learning and accomplishments,
who had made the most of his time whilst the sun shone on his side the hedge, and had rolled
his ungainly carcass over half the world. "He quoted Virgil, and talked of Hobbes of Malmsbury,
besides repeating poetry by the canto, especially Hudibras. Strangely must such reminiscences
have sounded in a whaler's forecastle, with Dunks the Dane, Finland Van, and Wymontoo the Savage,
for auditors.

The Julia had hitherto had little luck in her cruise, and could scarcely hope for better in
the state in which Typee found her. Besides the losses by desertion, her crew was weakened
by disease. Several of the men lay sick in their berths, wholly unfit for duty. The captain
himself was ill, and all would have derived benefit from a short sojourn in port; but this
could not be thought of. The discipline of the ship was bad, and the sailors, desperate and
unruly fellows, discontented, as well they might be, with their wretched provisions and uncomfortable
state, were not to be trusted on or near shore. Three-fourths of them, had they once set foot
on dry land, would have absconded, taken refuge in the woods or amongst the savages, and have
submitted to any amount of tattoo, paint, and nose-ringing, rather than return to the ship.
Already, at St Christina, one of the Marquesas, a large party had made their escape in two
of the four whale-boats, scuttling the third, and cutting the tackles of the fourth nearly
through, so that when Bembo jumped in to clear it away, man and boat went souse into the water.
By the assistance of a French corvette, and by bribing the king of the country with a musket
and ammunition, the fugitives were captured. But it was more than probable that they and others
would renew the attempt should opportunity offer; so there was no alternative but to keep the
sea, and hope for better days and for the convalescence of the invalids. Two of these died.
Neither Bible nor Prayer-book were on board the godless craft, and like dogs, without form
of Christian burial, the dead were launched into the deep. The situation of the survivors inspired
with considerable uneasiness the few amongst them capable of reflection. The captain was ignorant
of navigation; it was the mate who, from the commencement of the voyage, had kept the ship's
reckoning, and kept it all to himself. He had only to get washed overboard in a gale, or to
walk over in a drunken fit, to leave his shipmates in a fix of the most unpleasant description,
ignorant of latitude, longitude, and of everything else necessary to be known to guide the
vessel on her course. And as to the sperm whales, which Jermin had promised them in such abundance
that they would only have to strike and take, not a single fin showed itself. At last the captain
was reported dying, and the mate took counsel with Long-Ghost, Typee, and others of the crew.
He would gladly have continued the cruise, but his wish was overruled, and the whaler's stern
was turned towards the Society Islands.

The first glimpse of the peaks of Tahiti was hailed with transport by the Julia's weary mariners.
They had got a notion that if the captain left the ship, their articles were no longer binding,
and they should be free to follow his example. And, at any rate, the sickness on board and
the shaky condition of the barque, guaranteed them, as they thought, long and blissful leisure
amongst the waving palm-groves and soft-eyed Neuhas of Polynesia. Their arrival in sight of
Papeetee, the Tahitian capital, was welcomed by the boom of cannon. The frigate Reine Blanche,
at whose fore flew the flag of Admiral Du Petit Thouars, thus celebrated the compulsory treaty,
concluded that morning, by which the island was ceded to the French.

Captain Guy and his baggage were now set on shore, and it was soon apparent to his men that
whilst he nursed himself in the pure climate and pleasant shades of Tahiti, they were to put
to sea under the mate's orders, and after a certain time to touch again at the island, and
take off their commander. The vessel was not even allowed to go into port, although needing
repairs, and in fact unseaworthy; and as to healing the sick, selfish Paper Jack thought only
of solacing his own infirmities. The fury of the ill-fed, reckless, discontented crew, on discovering
the project of their superiors, passed all bounds. Chips and Bungs volunteered to head a mutiny,
and a round-robin was drawn up and signed. But when Wilson, an old acquaintance of Guy's, and
acting consul in the absence of missionary Pritchard, came on board, the gallant cooper, who
derived much of his courage from the grog-kid, was cowed and craven. The grievances brought
forward, amongst others that of the salt-horse, (a horse's hoof with the shoe on, so swore
the cook, had been found in the pickle,) were treated as trifles and pooh-poohed by the functionary,
"a minute gentleman with a viciously pugged nose, and a decidedly thin pair of legs." But if
Bungs allowed himself to be brow-beaten, so did not his comrades. Yankee Salem flourished a
bowie-knife, and such alarming demonstrations were made, that the counsellor, as the sailors
persisted in calling the consul, thought it wise to beat a retreat. Jermin now tried his hand,
holding out brilliant prospects of a rich cargo of sperm oil, and a pocket-full of dollars
for every man on his return to Sydney. The mutineers were proof alike against menace and blandishment,
and, at the secret instigation of Long Ghost and Typee, resolutely refused to do duty. The
consul, who had promised to return, did not show; and at last the mate, having now but a few
invalids and landsmen to work the ship and keep her off shore, was compelled to enter the harbour.
The Julia came to an anchor within cable's length of the French frigate, on board which consul
Wilson repaired to obtain assistance. The Reine Blanche was to sail in a few days for Valparaiso,
and the mutineers expected to go with her and be delivered up to a British man-of-war.

Touching the proceedings on board the French man-of-war, its imperfect discipline, and the
strange, un-nautical way of carrying on the duty, Typee is jocular and satirical. American
though he be--and, but for occasional slight yankeeisms in his style, we might have doubted
even that fact--he has evidently much more sympathy with his cousin John Bull than with his
country's old allies, the French, whom he freely admits to be a clever and gallant nation,
whilst he broadly hints that their valour is not likely to be displayed to advantage on the
water. He finds too much of the military style about their marine institutions. Sailors should
be fighting men, but not soldiers or musket-carriers, as they all are in turn in the French
navy. He laughs at or objects to every thing; the mustaches of the officers, the system of
punishment, the sour wine that replaces rum and water, the soup instead of junk, the pitiful
little rolls baked on board, and distributed in lieu of hard biscuit. And whilst praising the
build of their ships--the only thing about them he does praise--he ejaculates a hope, which
sounds like a doubt, that they will not some day fall into the hands of the people across the
Channel. We are rather at a loss to comprehend the familiarity shown by Typee with the internal
arrangements and architecture of the Reine Blanche. His time on board was passed in fetters;
at nightfall on the fifth day he left the ship. How, we are curious to know, did he become
acquainted with the minute details of "the crack craft in the French navy," with the disposition
of her guns and decks, the complicated machinery by which certain exceedingly simple things
were done, and even with the rich hangings, mirrors, and mahogany of the commodore's cabin?
Surely the ragged and disreputable mutineer of the Julia, whose foot had scarcely touched the
gangway, when he was hurried into confinement below, could have had scanty opportunity for
such observations: unless, indeed, Herman Melville, or Typee, or the Rover, or by whatever
other alias he be known, instead of creeping in at the hawse-holes, was welcomed on the quarter-deck
and admitted to the gun-room, or to the commodore's cabin, an honoured guest in broad-cloth,
not a despised merchant seaman in canvass frock and hat of tarpaulin. We shall not dwell on
these small inconsistencies and oversights in an amusing book. We prefer accompanying the Julia's
crew to Tahiti, where they were put on shore contrary to their expectations, and not altogether
to their satisfaction, since they had anticipated a rapid run to Valparaiso, the fag-end of
a cruise in an English man-of-war, and a speedy discharge at Portsmouth. Paper Jack and Consul
Wilson had other designs, and still hoped to reclaim them to their duty on board the crazy
Julia. On their stubborn refusal, they were given in charge to a fat, good-humoured, old Tahitian,
called Captain Bob, who, at the head of an escort of natives, conveyed them up the country
to a sort of shed, known as the Calabooza Beretanee or English jail, used as a prison for refractory
sailors. This commences Typee's shore-going adventures, not less pleasant and original than
his sea-faring ones; although it is with some regret that we lose sight of the vermin-haunted
barque, on whose board such strange and exciting scenes occurred.

Throughout the book, however, fun and incident abound, and we are consoled for our separation
from poor little Jule, by the curious insight we obtain into the manners, morals, and condition
of the gentle savages, on whom an attempted civilisation has brought far more curses than blessings.

    "How pleasant were the songs of Toobonai,"

how gladsome and grateful the rustle of leaves and tinkle of rills, and silver-toned voices
of Tahitian maidens, to the rough seamen who had so long been "cabined, cribbed, confined,"
in the Julia's filthy forecastle! Not that they were allowed free range of the Eden of the
South Seas. On board the Reine Blanche their ankles had been manacled to an iron bar; in the
Calabooza, (from the Spanish calabozo, a dungeon,) they were placed in rude wooden stocks twenty
feet long, constructed for the particular benefit of refractory mariners. There they lay, merry
men all of a row, fed upon taro (Indian turnip) and bread-fruit, and covered up at night with
one huge counterpane of brown tappa, the native cloth. It was owing to no friendly indulgence
on the part of Guy and the consul, that their diet was so agreeable and salutary. Every morning
Ropey came grinning into the prison, with a bucket full of the old worm-eaten biscuit from
the Julia. It was a huge treat to the unfortunate Cockney, thus to be instrumental in the annoyance
of his former persecutors; and lucky for him that their limbo'd legs prevented their rewarding
his visible exultation otherwise than by a shower of maledictions. They swore to starve rather
than consume the maggoty provender. Luckily the natives had it in very different estimation.
They did not mind maggots, and held British biscuit to be a piquant and delicious delicacy.
So in exchange for their allotted ration, the mutineers obtained a small quantity of vegetable
food, and an unlimited supply of oranges, thanks to which refreshing regimen the sick were
speedily restored to health. And after a few days of stocks and submission, jolly old Captain
Bob, who spoke sailor's English, and obstinately claimed intimacy with Captain Cook,--whose
visit to the island had occurred some years before his birth--relaxed his severity, and allowed
the captives their freedom during the day. They profited of this permission to forage a little,
in a quiet way; assisting at pig-killings, and dropping in at dinner-time upon the wealthier
of their neighbours. Tahitian hospitality is boundless, and the more praiseworthy that the
island, although so fertile, produces but a scanty amount of edibles. Bread-fruit is the chief
resource; fish, a very important one, the chief dependence of many of the poorer natives. There
is little industry amongst them, and on the spontaneous produce of the soil the shipping make
heavy demands. Polynesian indolence is proverbial. Very light labour would enable the Tahitians
to roll in riches, at least according to their own estimate of the value of money and of the
luxuries it procures. Wholly without energy, the Tahitians saunter away their lives in a state
of drowsy indolence, aiming only at the avoidance of trouble, and the sensual enjoyment of
the moment. The race rapidly diminishes. Diseases of various kinds, entirely of European introduction,
and chiefly the result of drunkenness and debauchery, account for this frightful decrease,
which must result in the extinction of the aborigines.

    "The palm-tree shall grow,
    The coral shall spread,
    But man shall cease."

So runs an old Tahitian prophecy, soon to be realised. And if Pomaree, who is under forty years
of age, proves a long-lived sovereign, she may chance to find herself a queen without subjects.
Concerning her majesty and her court, Typee is diffuse and diverting. This is an age of queens,
and although her dominions be of the smallest, her people few and feeble, and her prerogative
wofully clipped, she of Tahiti has made some noise in the world, and attracted a fair share
of public attention. At one time, indeed, she was almost as much thought of and talked about
as her more civilised and puissant European sisters. In France, La Reine Pomarée was looked
upon as a far more interesting personage than Spanish Isabel or Portuguese Maria; and extraordinary
notions were formed as to the appearance, habits, and attributes of her dusky majesty. Distance
favoured delusion, and French imagination ran riot in conjecture, until the reports of the
valiant Thonars, and his squadron of protection, dissipated the enchantment, and reduced Pomaree
to her true character, that of a lazy, dirty, licentious, Polynesian savage, who walks about
barefoot, drinks spirits, and hen-pecks her husband. Her real name is Aimata, but she assumed,
on ascending the throne, the royal patronymic by which she is best known. There were Cæsars
in Rome, there are Pomarees in Tahiti. The name was originally assumed by the great Otoo, (to
be read of in Captain Cook,) who united the whole island under one crown. It descended to his
son, and then to his grandson, who came to the throne an infant, and, dying young, was succeeded
by her present majesty, Pomaree Vahinee I., the first female Pomaree. This lady has been twice
married. Her first husband was a king's son, but the union was ill assorted, a divorce obtained,
and she took up with one Tanee, a chief from the neighbouring island of Imeco. She leads him
a dog's life, and he consoles himself by getting drunk. In that state, he now and then violently
breaks out, contemns the royal authority, thrashes his wife, and smashes the crockery. Captain
Bob gave Typee an account of a burst of this sort, which occurred about seven years ago. Stimulated
by the seditious advice of his boon companions, and under the influence of an unusually large
dose of strong waters, the turbulent king-consort forgot the respect due to his wife and sovereign,
mounted his horse, and ran full tilt at the royal cavalcade, out for their afternoon ride in
the park. One maid of honour was floored, the rest fled in terror, save and except Pomaree,
who stood her ground like a man, and apostrophised her insubordinate spouse in the choicest
Tahitian Billingsgate. For once her eloquence failed of effect. Dragged from her horse, her
personal charms were deteriorated by a severe thumping on the face. This done, Othello-Tanee
attempted to strangle her, and was in a fair way to succeed, when her loving subjects came
to her rescue. So heinous a crime could not be overlooked, and Tanee, was banished to his native
island; but after a short time he declared his penitence, made amende honorable, and was restored
to favour. He does not very often venture to thwart the will of his royal wife, much less to
raise his hand against her sacred person, but submits with exemplary patience to her caprices
and abuse, and even to the manual admonitions she not unfrequently bestows upon him.

Upon the whole, life, at the Calabooza was not very disagreeable. The prisoners, now only nominally
so, had little to complain of, except occasional short commons, arising not from unwillingness,
but from disability, on the part of the kind-hearted natives, to satisfy the cravings of the
hungry whalers, whose appetites were remarkable, especially that of lanky Doctor Long Ghost.
The doctor was a stickler for quality as well as quantity; the memory of his claret and beccafico
days still clung to him, like the scent of the roses to Tom Moore's broken gallipot: he was
curious in condiments, and whilst devouring, grumbled at the unseasoned viands of Tahiti. Cayenne
and Harvey abounded not in those latitudes, but pepper and salt were on board the Julia, and
the doctor prevailed on Rope Yarn to bring him a supply. 'In my poor opinion,' said Long Ghost,
as he tucked the wallet out of sight, 'it behoves a stranger in Tahiti to have his knife in
readiness, and his castor slung.'" Then they had plenty of society; native visitors flocked
to see them, and Doctor Johnson, a resident English physician, was constant in his attendance,
knowing that the Consul must pay his bill. Three French priests also called upon them, one
of whom proved to be no Frenchman, but a portly, handsome, good-humoured Irishman, well known
and much disliked by the Polynesian protestant missionaries. A strong attempt was made by Guy
and Wilson to get the men to do duty. A schooner was about to sail for Sydney, and they were
threatened to be sent thither for trial. They still refused to hand rope or break biscuit on
board the Julia. Long Ghost made some cutting remarks on the captain; and the sailors, who
had been taken down to the Consul's office for examination, began to bully, and talked of carrying
off Consul and Captain to bear them company in the Calabooza. The same ill success attended
subsequent attempts, until Captain Guy was compelled to look out for another crew, which he
obtained with difficulty, and by a considerable advance of hard dollars. The Consul would supply
none, and it was pretty evident that he rather desired the departure of the obstinate seamen
from that part of the island. The whole of his proceedings with regard to them had served but
to render him ridiculous, and he wished them out of his neighbourhood; but the ex-prisoners
found themselves pretty comfortable, and preferred remaining. They were better off than they
had for some time been, for Jermin--not such a bad fellow, after all--had sent them their chests
ashore; and these, besides supplying them with sundry necessaries, gave them immense importance
in Tahitian eyes. They had been kindly treated before, but now they were courted and flattered,
like younger sons in marching regiments, who suddenly step into the family acres. The natives
crowded round them, eager to swear eternal friendship, according to an old Polynesian custom,
once universal in the islands, but that has fallen into considerable disuse, except when something
is to be gained by its observance. A gentleman of the name of Kooloo fixed his affections upon
Typee--or rather upon his goods and chattels; for when he had wheedled him out of a regatta
shirt, and other small pieces of finery, he transferred his affections to a newly-arrived sailor,
whose chest was better lined, and who bestowed on him a love-token, in the shape of a heavy
pea-jacket. In this garment, closely buttoned up, Kooloo took morning promenades, with the
tropical sun glaring down upon him. He frequently met his former friend, but passed him with
a careless "How d'ye do?" which presently dwindled into a nod. "In one week's time," says poor
Typee, "he gave me the cut direct, and lounged by without even nodding. He must have taken
me for part of the landscape."

After a while the contents of the chests, and even the chests themselves--esteemed by the Tahitians
most valuable pieces of furniture--were given or bartered away, and, as the Consul still refused
them rations, the sailors knew not how to live. The natives helped them as much as they could,
but their larders were scantily furnished, and they grew tired of feeding fifteen hungry idlers.
So at last the latter made a morning call upon the Consul, who, being unwilling to withdraw,
and equally so to press, charges which he knew would not be sustained, refused to have any
thing to say to them. Thereupon some of the party, strong in principle and resolution, and
seeing how grievous an annoyance their presence was to their enemy, Wilson, swore to abide
near him and never to leave him. Others, less obstinate or more impatient of a change, resolved
to decamp from the Calabooza. The first to depart were Typee and Long Ghost. They had received
intelligence of a new plantation in Imeco, recently formed by foreigners, who wanted white
labourers, and were expected at Papeetee to seek them. With these men they took service under
the names of Peter and Paul, at wages of fifteen silver dollars a month; and, after an affecting
separation from their shipmates--whose respectable character may be judged of by the fact,
that one of them picked Long Ghost's pocket in the very act of embracing him,--they sailed
away for Imeco, and arrived without accident in the valley of Martair, where the plantation
was situate. The chapters recording their stay here are amongst the very best in the book,
full of rich, quiet fun. Typee gives a capital description of his employers. Zeke the Yankee,
had christened his comrade "Shorty;" and Shorty looked up to him with respect, and yielded
to him in most things. Both showed themselves well disposed towards their new labourers, whom
they at once discovered to be superior to their station. And they soon found their society
so agreeable, that they were willing to keep them to do little more than nominal work. As to
making them efficient farm servants, they quickly gave up that idea. As a sailor, Typee had
little fancy for husbandry; and the doctor found his long back terribly in his way when requested
to dig potatoes and root up stumps, under a sun which, as Shorty said, "was hot enough to melt
the nose hoff a brass monkey." Long Ghost very soon gave in; the extraction of a single tree-root
settled him; he pleaded illness, and retired to his hammock, but was considerably vexed when
he heard the Yankee propose a bullock hunting expedition, in which, as a sick man, he could
not decently take part. This was only the prologue to his annoyances. Musquitoes, unknown in
Tahiti, abound in Imeeo. Musquitoes were the result. The musquito chapter is very amusing,
showing the various comical and ingenious manoeuvres of the friends to avoid their tormentors,
and obtain a night's sleep. At last they entered a fishing canoe, paddled some distance from
shore, and dropped the native anchor, a stone secured to a rope. They were awakened in the
morning by the motion of their boat. Zeke was wading in the shallow water, and towing them
from a reef towards which they had drifted. "The water-sprites had rolled our stone out of
its noose, and we had floated away." This was a narrow escape, but nevertheless they stuck
to their floating bedstead as the only possible sleeping place. A day's successful hunting,
followed by a famous supper and jollification under a banian-tree, put the doctor in good humour,
and he made himself vastly agreeable. The natives beheld his waggish pranks with infinite admiration,
and Zeke looked upon him with particular favour; so much so, that when upon the following morning
an order came from a ship at Papeetee, for a supply of potatoes, he almost hesitated to tell
funny Peter to assist in digging them up. But the emergency pressed, and the work must be done.
So Peter and Paul were set to unearth the vegetables. But when they were dug up, they had to
be carried to the beach; and to this part of the business the lazy adventurers had a special
dislike, although Zeke kindly provided them, to lighten their toil, with what he called the
barrel machine--a sort of rural sedan, in which the servants carried their loads with comparative
ease, whilst their employers sweated under shouldered hampers. But no alleviation could reconcile
the sailor and the physician to this novel and unpleasant labour, and the potato-digging was
the last piece of work, deserving the name, that either of them did. A few days afterwards
they gave their masters warning, greatly to the vexation of Zeke, although he received the
notice--with true Yankee imperturbability. He proposed that Long Ghost, who, after the hunt,
had shown, considerable culinary skill, should assume the office of cook, and that Paul-Typee
should only work when it suited him, which would not have been very often. The offer was friendly
and favourable, but it was refused. A hospitable invitation to remain as guests as long as
was convenient to them, was likewise rejected, and, bent upon a ramble, the restless adventurers
left the vale of Martair. Even greater inducements would probably have been insufficient to
keep them there. They had been so long on the rove, that change of scene had become essential
to their happiness. The doctor, especially, was anxious to be off to Tamai, an inland village
on the borders of a lake, where the fruits were the finest, and the women the most beautiful
and unsophisticated in all the Society Islands. Epicurean Long Ghost had set his mind upon
visiting this terrestrial paradise, and thither his steady chum willingly accompanied him.
It was a day's journey on foot, allowing time for dinner and siesta; and the path lay through
wood and ravine, unpeopled save by wild cattle. About noon they reached the heart of the island,
thus pleasantly described. There is something delightfully hydropathic in these lines; they
cool one like a shower-bath. He is a prime fellow, this common sailor Melville, at such scraps
of description, terse and true, placing the scene before us in ten words. In long yarns he
indulges not, but of such happy touches as the above, we could quote a score. We have not room,
either for them, or for an account of the valley of Tamai, its hospitable inhabitants, and
its heathenish dances, performed in secret, and in dread of the missionaries, by whom such
saturnalia are forbidden. The place was altogether so pleasant, that the doctor and his friend
entertained serious thoughts of settling there, or at least of making a long stay, when one
morning they were put to flight by the arrival of strangers, said to be missionaries, with
whom, vagrants as they were, they had no wish to fall in. So they returned to their friend
Zeke, nursing new and ambitious projects. They had no intention of remaining with the good-hearted
Yankee, but merely paid him a flying visit, and that with an interested motive. What they wanted
of him was this. Although feeling themselves gentlemen every inch, they were not always able
to convince the world of their respectability. So they resolved to have a passport, and pitched
upon Zeke to manufacture it, he being well known and much respected in Imeeo. Zeke was gratified
by the compliment, and set to work with a rooster's quill, and a piece of dirty paper. 'In
this here damned climate,' he observed, 'a feller can't keep the run of the months, no how;
'cause there's no seasons, no summer and winter to go by.

The decline of the Tahitian monarchy--the degradation of the regal house of Pomaree, is painful
to contemplate. The queen still wears a crown--a tinsel one, received as a present from her
sister-sovereign of England,--she has also a court and a palace, such as they are; but her
power is little more than nominal, her exchequer seldom otherwise than empty. Typee draws a
touching contrast between times past and present. Into the court of this washerwoman-queen,
Typee and Long Ghost were exceedingly anxious to penetrate. Vague ideas of favour and preferment
haunted their brains. During their Polynesian cruise, they had seen many instances of rapid
advancement; vagabond foreigners, of all nations, domesticated in the families of chiefs and
kings, and sometimes married to their daughters and sharing their power. At one of the Tonga
islands, a scamp of a Welshman officiated as cupbearer to the king of the cannibals. The monarch
of the Sandwich islands has three foreigners about his court--a Negro to beat the drum, a wooden-legged
Portuguese to play the fiddle, and Mordecai, a juggler, to amuse his majesty with cups and
balls and sleight of hand. On the Marquesan island of Hivarhoo, they had found an English sailor
who had attained to the highest dignity in the country. He had deserted from a merchant ship,
and at once set up, on his own hook, as an independent sovereign, without dominions, but by
disposition most belligerent. A musket and a store of cartridges were his whole possessions;
but in a land where war was rife, carried on with the primitive weapons of spear and javelin,
they were sufficiently important to make a native prince covet his alliance. His first battle
was a decisive victory, a perfect Waterloo, and he became the Wellington of Hivarhoo, receiving,
as reward for his distinguished services, the hand of a princess, and a splendid dowry of hogs,
mats, and other produce. To conform to the prejudices of his new family, he allowed himself
to be tattooed, tabooed, and otherwise paganized, becoming as big a savage as any in the island.
A blue shark adorned his forehead; a broad bar, of the same colour, traversed his face. The
tabooing was a less ornamental but more decidedly useful formality, for by it his person was
declared sacred and inviolable. Typee and his medical friend had a strong prejudice against
cerulean sharks and the like embellishments; but if these could be dispensed with, they felt
no disinclination to form part of Pomaree's household. They had not quite made up their minds
what office would best suit them, but their circumstances were unprosperous, and they resolved
not to be particular. They understood that the queen was mustering around her all the foreigners
she could recruit, to make head against the French. She was then at Taloo, a village on the
coast of Imeeo, and thither the two adventurers betook themselves, hoping to be at once elevated
to important posts at court; but quite resigned, in case of disappointment, to work as day-labourers
in a sugar-plantation, or go to sea in a whaler, then in the harbour for wood and water. Disgusted
with their desultory, hand-to-mouth existence, they yearned after respectability and a prime-ministership.
To their sanguine anticipations, both of these seemed easy of attainment. Long Ghost, indeed,
who, amongst his various accomplishments, was a very Orpheus upon the violin, insisted strongly
upon the probability of his becoming a Tahitian Rizzio. But a necessary preliminary to the
realisation of these day-dreams, was a presentation at court, and that was difficult to obtain.
Once before Queen Pomaree, they doubted not but she, with Napoleonic sagacity, would discern
their merits, and forthwith make Typee her admiral, and Long Ghost inspector-general of hospitals.
But they lacked an introduction. The proper course, according to the practice of travelling
nobodies, desirous of intruding their plebeianism into a foreign court, would have been to
apply to their ambassadors. Unfortunately Deputy-Consul Wilson, the only person at hand of
a diplomatic character, was by no means disposed to act as master of the ceremonies to the
insurgents of the Julia. And their costume, it must be confessed, scarcely qualified them to
appear at levee or drawing-room. A short time previously, their ragged and variegated garb
had given them much the look of a brace of Polynesian Robert Macaires. Typee had made himself
a new frock out of two old ones, a blue and a red, the irregular mingling of the colours producing
a pleasing parrot-like effect; a tattered shirt of printed calico was twisted round his head,
turban-fashion, the sleeves dangling behind, and bullock's-hide sandals protected his feet.
The doctor was still more fantastical in his attire. He sported a roora, a garment similar
to the South American poncho, a sort of mantle or blanket, with a hole in the centre, through
which the head passes. This simple article of apparel, which in the doctor's case was of coarse
brown tappa, fell in folds around his angular carcass, and in conjunction with a broad-brimmed
hat of Panama grass, gave him the aspect of a decayed grandee. Thus clad, the two friends arrived
in the neighbourhood of the royal residence, and there were fortunate enough to fall in with
Mrs Po-Po, a benevolent Tahitian matron, who provided them with clean frocks and trousers,
such as sailors wear, and in all respects was as good as a mother to them. Her husband, Jeremiah
Po-Po, a man of substance and consideration, made them welcome in his house, fed and fostered
them, without hope of fee or recompense. A little of this generous hospitality was owing to
the hypocrisy of that villain, Long Ghost, who, finding his entertainers devoutly disposed,
muttered a "Grace before Meat" over the succulent little porkers, baked à la façon de Barbarie
in the ground, upon which their kind-hearted Amphitrion regaled them. But neither clean canvass,
nor simulated piety, sufficed to draw upon the ambitious schemers the favourable notice of
Queen Pomaree. Accustomed to sailors, she held them cheap. A uniform, though but the moth-eaten
undress of a militia ensign, would have been a powerful auxiliary to their projects of aggrandisement.
Like some others of her sex, Pomaree loves a soldier's coat, and maintained in more prosperous
days a formidable regiment of body-guards, in pasteboard shakos, and without breeches.

To go to court, however, Typee and his comrade were fully resolved; and they were not very
scrupulous as to the manner of their introduction. They made up to a Marquesan gentleman of
herculean proportions, whose office it was to take the princes of the blood an airing in his
arms. Typee, who spoke his language, and had been at his native village, soon ingratiated himself
with Marbonna, who introduced them to one of the queen's chamberlains. Bribery and corruption
now came into play: a plug of tobacco, proved an excellent passport to within the royal precincts,
but then Marbonna was suddenly called away, and the intruders found themselves abandoned to
their fate amongst the ladies of the court, amiable and affable damsels, whom a little "soft
sawder" induced to conduct them into the queen's own drawing room. Here were collected numerous
costly articles of European manufacture, sent as presents to Pomaree. Writing-desks, cut glass
and beautiful china, valuable engravings, and gilt candelabras, arms and instruments of all
kinds, lay scratched and broken, musty and rusting amongst greasy calabashes, old matting,
paddles, fish-spears, and rubbish of all kinds. It was supper-time; and presently the queen
came out of her private boudoir, attired in a blue silk gown and rich shawls, but without shoes
or stockings. She lay down upon a mat, and fed herself with her fingers. Presumptuous Long
Ghost, unabashed before royalty, was for immediately introducing himself and friend; but the
attendants opposed this forward proceeding, and, in doing so, made such a fuss that the queen
looked up from her calabash of fish, perceived the strangers, and ordered them out. Such was
the first and last interview between Typee the mariner and Pomaree the queen.

"Disappointed in going to court, we determined upon going to sea." The Leviathan, an American
whaler, lay in harbour, and Typee shipped on board her. Long Ghost would have done the same,
but the Yankee captain disliked the cut of his jib, swore he was a "Sidney bird," and would
have nought to say to him. So Typee divided his advance of wages with the medical spectre--drank
with him a parting bottle of wine, surreptitiously purchased from a pilfering member of Pomaree's
household--and sailed on a whaling cruise to the coast of Japan. We look forward with confidence
and interest to an account of what there befel him.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] Omoo; A Narrative of Adventures in the South Seas. By HERMAN MELVILLE. London: 1847.

ON THE NUTRITIVE QUALITIES OF THE BREAD NOW IN USE.

BY PROFESSOR JOHNSTON.

A few plain words on this subject may not be unacceptable to the popular reader at the present
time.

We are fond of what is agreeable to the eye as well as pleasant to the taste, and therefore
we love to have our bread made of the whitest and finest of the wheat. Attaching superior excellence
to what thus pleases the eye, we call the good Scotch bannock an inferior food, and the wholesome
black bread of the north of Europe a disgusting article of diet. When our experience and knowledge
are local and confined, our opinions necessarily partake of a similar character.

In regard to the different qualities of wheaten flour, our judgments are not so severe. All
things which pertain to this aristocratic grain--this staff of English life--like the liveries
and horses of a great man--are treated with a certain degree of respect. Still, they are only
the appendages of the noble seed, and the more thoroughly they are got rid of, the better the
kernel is supposed to become.

In many of our old-fashioned families, indeed, the practice still lingers of baking bread from
the whole meal of wheat for common use in the kitchen or hall, and for occasional consumption
on the master's table. An enthusiastic physician also now and then rouses himself, and does
battle with the national organs of taste on behalf of the darker bread, and the browner flour--and
dyspeptic old gentlemen or mammas who have over-pampered their sickly darlings, listen to his
fervid warnings, and the star of the brown loaf is for a month or two in the ascendant.

But gradually the warning sound is lost to the alarmed ear, and the pulses of the commoved
air waft it on to mingle with the thousand other long-quenched voices which people the distant
realms of space, and form together that unutterable harmony which, by consent of the poets,
is named the music of the spheres.

There are times, however, when good men, though aware of this passing tendency of human efforts,
and of the thankless impotency of a struggle against the public voice--that vox populi which
wise men (so-called) have pronounced to be also vox Dei--will nevertheless return to what they
believe to be a useful though unvalued labour. The present is one in which any thing which
can be said in favour of the less-valued parts of our imperial grain, will be more readily
listened to than at any other period in the life-time of the existing generation; and being
listened to, may be productive of the greatest national good.

I propose, therefore, to show, in an intelligible manner, that whole meal flour is really more
nourishing, as well as more wholesome, than fine white flour as food for man.

The solid parts of the human body consist, principally, of three several portions: the fat,
the muscle, and the bone. These three substances are liable to constant waste in the living
body, and therefore must be constantly renewed from the food that we eat. The vegetable food
we consume contains these three substances almost ready formed. The plant is the brick-maker.
The animal voluntarily introduces these bricks into its stomach, and then involuntarily--through
the operation of the mysterious machinery within--picks out these bricks, transports them to
the different parts of the body, and builds them into their appropriate places. As the miller
at his mill throws into the hopper the unground grain, and forthwith, by the involuntary movements
of the machinery, receives in his several sacks the fine flour, the seconds, the middlings,
the pollard, and the bran; so in the human body, by a still more refined separation, the fat
is extracted and deposited here, the muscular matter there, and the bony material in a third
locality, where it can not only be stored up, but where its presence is actually at the moment
necessary.

Again, the fluid parts of the body contain the same substances in a liquid form, on their way
to or from the several parts of the body in which they are required. They include also a portion
of salt or saline matter which is dissolved in them, as we dissolve common salt in our soup,
or Epsom salts in the pleasant draughts with which our doctors delight to vex us. This saline
matter is also obtained from the food.

Now, it is self-evident, that that food must be the most nourishing which supplies all these
ingredients of the body most abundantly on the whole, or in proportions most suited to the
actual wants of the individual animal to which it is given.

How stands the question, then, in regard to this point between the brown bread and the white--the
fine flour, and the whole meal of wheat?

The grain of wheat consists of two parts, with which the miller is familiar--the inner grain
and the skin that covers it. The inner grain gives the pure wheat flour; the skin, when separated,
forms the bran. The miller cannot entirely peel off the skin from his grain, and thus some
of it is unavoidably ground up with his flour. By sifting, he separates it more or less completely:
his seconds, middlings, &c., owing their colour to the proportion of brown bran that has passed
through the sieve along with the flour. The whole meal, as it is called, of which the so-named
brown household bread is made, consists of the entire grain ground up together--used as it
comes from the mill-stones unsifted, and therefore containing all the bran.

The first white flour, therefore, may be said to contain no bran, while the whole meal contains
all that grew naturally upon the grain.

What is the composition of these two portions of the seed? How much do they respectively contain
of the several constituents of the animal body? How much of each is contained also in the whole
grain?

1. The fat. Of this ingredient a thousand pounds of the

    Whole grain contain 28 lbs.
    Fine Flour,    "    20  "
    Bran,          "    60  "

So that the bran is much richer in fat than the interior part of the grain, and the whole grain
ground together (whole meal) richer than the finer part of the flour in the proportion of nearly
one half.

2. The muscular matter. I have had no opportunity as yet of ascertaining the relative proportions
of this ingredient in the bran and fine flour of the same sample of grain. Numerous experiments,
however, have been made in my laboratory, to determine these proportions in the fine flour
and whole seed of several varieties of grain. The general result of these is, that the whole
grain uniformly contains a larger quantity, weight for weight, than the fine flour extracted
from it does. The particular results in the case of wheat and Indian corn were as follows:--A
thousand pounds of the whole grain and of the fine flour contained of muscular matter respectively,--

               Whole grain.   Fine Flour.
Wheat,          156 lbs.               130 lbs.
Indian Corn,    140                    110

Of the material out of which the animal muscle is to be formed, the whole meal or grain of
wheat contains one-fifth more than the finest flour does. For maintaining muscular strength,
therefore, it must be more valuable in an equal proportion.

3. Bone material and Saline matter.--Of these mineral constituents, as they may be called,
of the animal body, a thousand pounds of bran, whole meal and fine flour, contain respectively,--

    Bran,        700 lbs.
    Whole meal,  170  "
    Fine flour,   60  "

So that in regard to this important part of our food, necessary to all living animals, but
especially to the young who are growing, and to the mother who is giving milk--the whole meal
is three times more nourishing than the fine flour.

Our case is now made out. Weight for weight, the whole grain or meal is more rich in all these
three essential elements of a nutritive food, than the fine flour of wheat. By those whose
only desire is to sustain their health and strength by the food they eat, ought not the whole
meal to be preferred? To children who are rapidly growing, the browner the bread they eat,
the more abundant the supply of the materials from which their increasing bones and muscles
are to be produced. To the milk-giving mother, the same food, and for a similar reason, is
the most appropriate.

A glance at their mutual relations in regard to the three substances, presented in one view,
will show this more clearly. A thousand pounds of each contain of the three several ingredients
the following proportions.

                  Whole meal.   Fine flour.
Muscular matter,   156 lbs.       130 lbs.
Bone material,     170  "          60  "
Fat,                28  "          20  "

Total in each,     354            210

Taking the three ingredients, therefore, together, the whole meal is one-half more valuable
for fulfilling all the purposes of nutrition than the fine flour--and especially it is so in
regard to the feeding of the young, the pregnant, and those who undergo much bodily fatigue.

It will not be denied that it is for a wise purpose that the Deity has so intimately associated,
in the grain, the several substances which are necessary for the complete nutrition of animal
bodies. The above considerations show how unwise we are in attempting to undo this natural
collocation of materials. To please the eye and the palate, we sift out a less generally nutritive
food,--and, to make up for what we have removed, experience teaches us to have recourse to
animal food of various descriptions.

It is interesting to remark, even in apparently trivial things, how all nature is full of compensating
processes. We give our servants household bread, while we live on the finest of the wheat ourselves.
The mistress eats that which pleases the eye more, the maid what sustains and nourishes the
body better.

But the whole meal is more wholesome, as well as more nutritive. It is on account of its superior
wholesomeness that those who are experienced in medicine usually recommend it to our attention.
Experience in the laws of digestion brings us back to the simple admixture found in the natural
seed. It is not an accidental thing that the proportions in which the ingredients of a truly
sustaining food take their places in the seeds on which we live, should be best fitted at once
to promote the health of the sedentary scholar, and to reinvigorate the strength of the active
man when exhausted by bodily labour.

Some may say that the preceding observations are merely theoretical; and may demand the support
of actual trial, before they will concede that the selection of the most nourishing and wholesome
diet is hereafter to be regulated by the results of chemical analysis. The demand is reasonable
in itself, and the so-called deductions of theory are entitled only to the rank of probable
conjectures, till they have been tested by exact and repeated trials.

But such in this case have been made; and our theoretical considerations come in only to confirm
the results of previous experiments--to explain why these results should have been obtained,
and to extend and enforce the practical lessons which the results themselves appeared to inculcate.

Thus, from the experiments of Majendie and others, it was known that animals which in a few
weeks died if fed only upon fine flour, lived long upon whole meal bread. The reason appears
from our analytical investigations. The whole meal contains in large quantity the three forms
of matter by which the several parts of the body are sustained, or successively renewed. We
may feed a man long upon bread and water only, but unless we wish to kill him also, we must
have the apparent cruelty to restrict him to the coarser kinds of bread. The charity which
should supply him with fine white loaves instead, would in effect kill him by a lingering starvation.

Again, the pork-grower who buys bran from the miller, wonders at the remarkable feeding and
fattening effect which this apparently woody and useless material has upon his animals. The
surprise ceases, however, and the practice is encouraged, and extended to other creatures,
when the researches of the laboratory explain to him what the food itself contains, and what
his growing animal requires.

Economy as well as comfort follow from an exact acquaintance with the wants of our bodies in
their several conditions, and with the composition of the various articles of diet which are
at our command. In the present condition of the country, this economy has become a vital question.
It is a kind of Christian duty in every one to practise it as far as his means and his knowledge
enable him.

Perhaps the amount of the economy which would follow the use of whole meal instead of fine
flour, may not strike every one who reads the above observations. The saving arises from two
sources.

First, The amount of husk, separated by the miller from the wheat which he grinds, and which
is not sold for human use, varies very much. I think we do not over-estimate it, when we consider
it as forming one-eighth of the whole. On this supposition, eight pounds of wheat yield seven
of flour consumed by man, and one of pollard and bran which are given to animals--chiefly to
poultry and pigs. If the whole meal be used, however, eight pounds of flour will be obtained,
or eight people will be fed by the same weight of grain which only fed seven before.

Again, we have seen that the whole meal is more nutritious--so that this coarser flour will
go farther than an equal weight of the fine. The numbers at which we arrived, from the results
of analysis, show that, taking all the three sustaining elements of the food into consideration,
the coarse is one-half more nutritive than the fine. Leaving a wide margin for the influence
of circumstances, let us suppose it only one-eighth more nutritive, and we shall have now nine
people nourished equally by the same weight of grain, which, when eaten as fine flour, would
support only seven. The wheat of the country, in other words, would in this form go one-fourth
farther than at present.

But some one may remark, if all this good is to come from the mere use of the bran, why not
recommend it to be withheld from the pigs, and consume it by man in some way alone? This would
involve no change in the practice of our millers, and little in the habits and bread of the
great mass of the population.

But such a course, if possible, would not bring us to the economical end we wish to attain.
Suppose it could be made palatable and eaten by man, little comparative saving would be effected.

First, because, when eaten alone, the fine flour will not go so far as when mixed with a certain
proportion of bran: that is to say,--a given weight of fine flour will produce an increased
nutritive effect when mixed with the bran: greater than is due to the constituents of the bran
taken alone. The mixture of the two in reality increases the virtues of both. Again, if eaten
alone, bran would prove too difficult, and therefore slow of digestion in most stomachs. Much
would thus pass, unexhausted of its nutritive matter, through the alimentary canal, as whole
oats often do through that of horses, and thus a considerable waste would ensue.

And further, supposing all to be dissolved in the stomach, there would still, of necessity,
be a waste of material, since the bran actually contains a larger proportion of bone material
and saline matter compared with its other ingredients, than the body, in its natural healthy
state, can make use of. All this excess must, therefore, be rejected by the body, and, as nutritive
matter, for the time be wasted.

Lastly, it is doubtful if bran alone contains enough of starch, or of any substitute for it,
to meet the other demands of the human system. I have not spoken of the use of the starch of
the grain in the preceding observations, because, as both whole meal and fine flour contain
a sufficient quantity of it to supply the wants of the living animal, it was unnecessary to
the main object of this paper. But with bran the case is different. It is doubtful if the purposes
of the starch could be fully, and with sufficient speed, fulfilled by the ingredients which,
in the bran, take the place of starch in the flour. The cellular fibre or woody matter, of
which it contains a considerable proportion, is too slowly soluble in the stomachs of ordinary
men. While, therefore, much of it would pass through the body undigested, it would require
to be eaten in far larger proportions than its composition indicates, if the body was to be
supported, and thus a further waste would be incurred.

On the whole, therefore, we come back to the whole meal, as the most economical as well as
the most nutritive and wholesome form in which the grain of wheat can be consumed. The Deity
has done far better for us, by the natural mixtures to be found in the whole seed, than we
can do for ourselves. The materials, both in form and in proportion, are adjusted in each seed,
as wheat, in a way more suitable to us than any which, with our present knowledge, we appear
able to devise.

A word to our Scottish readers, before we conclude. We do not recommend to you even the whole
meal of wheat as a substitute for your oatmeal or your oaten-cake. The oat is more nutritive
even than the whole grain of wheat, taken weight for weight. For the growing boy, for the hard-working
man, and for the portly matron, oatmeal contains the materials of the most hearty nourishment.
This it owes in part to its peculiar chemical composition, and in part to its being, as it
is used in Scotland, a kind of whole meal. The finely sifted oatmeal of Yorkshire and Lancashire
is not so agreeable to a Scottish taste, and, I believe, is not so nutritious, as the rounder
and coarser meal of the more northern counties.

While, therefore, the whole meal of wheat is superior to the fine flour, in economy, in nutritive
power, and in wholesomeness, and therefore should be preferred by those who must live upon
wheat,--in all these respects the oat has still the advantage, and therefore ought religiously
to be adhered to. You owe it to the experience of your forefathers, for a thousand years, not
to forsake it.

                          Lurham, 19th May, 1847.

INDEX TO VOL. LXI.

Abdul Medjid, the Sultan, 693.

Adalia, sketches of, 737.

Addington, Henry, see Sidmouth.

Addington, Hiley, 475.

Adelaide, Madame, 2, 7, 8, 12.

Adventures of the Connaught Rangers, review of, 457.

Aidan, Bishop, 84.

Albemarle, Lord, 201.

Albert, Madame, 186.

Ambrosio, General, 174.

America, origin of the struggle with, 207.

America, how they manage matters in, 492.

America, North, 653.

Ancient and Modern Ballad Poetry, 622.

Anglo-Saxons, Lappenberg's History of the, reviewed, 79.

Angouleme, the Duc d', 5, 6.

Appert, B. Dix ans à la Cour du Roi Louis Philippe, review of, 1.

Aquilius, Letter from, to Eusebius, 374
  --second, 501
  --third, 695.

Arabs in Batavia, the, 321.

Archangel, New, settlement of, 661.

Armenians of Smyrna, the, 238.

Arnal, a French actor, 185.

Arnault, M., 15.

Arthur, King, 81.

Assessed Taxes, inequalities of, 248.

Aumale, Duc d', 17.

Badajos, capture of, 468.

Ballad Poetry, ancient and modern, 622.

Balzac, M. de, 16, works of, 591.

Banditti of Spain, the, 356.

Batavia, city of, 320.

Baths of Mont Dor, the, 448
  --the company at, 451
  --the forest, 454.

Belgrade, siege and battle of, 36.

Belisarius,--was he blind? 606.

Benedict Biscop, 87.

Bernard, Charles de, notices of the works of, 589.

Berri, Duchesse de, 530.

Blackwall, ode to, 59.

Blucher, sketches of, 76.

Bolingbroke, Lord, 204.

Bonabat, village of, 241.

Bouffé, Marie, 189.

Boufflers, Marshal, 35, 36.

Boujah, village of, 241.

Bread, on the nutritive qualities of, by Professor Johnston, 768.

Browning, Elizabeth Barrett, sonnets by:
  --Life, 555
  --Love, ib.
  --Heaven and Earth, 556
  --The Prospect, ib.
  --Two Sketches, 683
  --The Mountaineer and the Poet, 684
  --the Poet, ib.

Brunet, an actor, 187.

Bruhl, Count, 209.

Bunzelwitz, camp and battle of, 43.

Buonaparte, Joseph, as King of Naples, 168.

Burgos, the retreat from, 471.

Burke, notices of, 483, 484, 487.

Busaco, battle of, 460.

Canning, Peel's conduct towards, 97.

California, sketches of, 662.

Caravan Bridge of Smyrna, the, 239.

Carbonari of Naples, the, 173.

Cardinal's voyage, the, 430.

Carlyle's Cromwell, review of, 392.

Caroline, Queen of Naples, 164, 167.

Catherine of Russia, intimacy of, with Voltaire, 537.

Catholic question, Peel's conduct on the, 97.

Catullus, translations from, No. I., 374
  --No. II., 501
  --No. III., 695.

Cave of the Regicides, the, and how three of them fared in New England, 333.

Championet, General, capture of Naples by, 163.

Chapelle, an actor, 185.

Charles X., accession of, 6.

Charles de Bernard, works of, 589.

Chateauroux, the Duchess of, 206, 530.

Chatham, Lord, 474, 475.

Cheri, Rose, 191.

Chesterfield, Lord, character of, by Walpole, 198.

Chinese in Batavia, the, 321.

Church rate, inequality of the, 250.

Ciudad Rodrigo, capture of, 467.

Claqueurs of Paris, the, 183.

Collier's book of Roxburghe ballads, review of, 622.

Connaught Rangers, sketches of the, 457.

Constantine Kanaris, epitaph of, 644.

Constantinople, and the declining state of the Ottoman empire, 685.

Corn law, Peel's conduct regarding the, 99.

Court of Louis Philippe, sketches of the, 1.

Cromwell, Carlyle's life of, reviewed, 392.

Cunnersdorf, battle of, 42.

Cunningham's poems and songs, review of, 622.

Dardanelles, the, 686.

Daun, Marshal, 40, 42.

Dejazet the actress, 189.

Delta, Scottish Melodies by:
  --Eric's Dirge, 91
  --The Stormy Sea, ib.
  --The Maid of Ulva, 645
  --Lament for Macrimmon, ib.

Direct Taxation, on, 243
  --true principles of, 258.

Divining Rod, the, 368.

Dixwell, John, the Regicide, 338.

Doche, Madame, 187.

Doddington, Bubb, 201, 202, 210.

Doré, a French robber, sketches of, 4.

Dubois, the Abbé, 530.

Duckworth, Sir John, forcing of the Dardanelles by, 686.

Dumas, General, 168.

Dumas, M. de, and his works, 16, 590, 591.

Durham, Lord, 15, 16.

Dutch, cruelties of the, in Java, 327.

Early Taken, the, 230.

Egmont, Lord, 197.

Ekaterineburg, town of, 671.

England, uniform triumphs of, over France, 48.

Epigrams, 361.

Epitaphs, 57, 61.

Epitaph of Constantine Kanaris, the, 644.

Eric's dirge, by Delta, 91.

Erith, village of, 423.

Erskine, Lord, 488.

Eugene, Marlborough, Frederick, Napoleon, and Wellington, 34.

Eusebius, letters to--Horæ Catullianæ, 374, 501, 695.

Famine, lessons from the, 515.

Ferdinand, king of Naples, 163, 164, 167.

Ferguson of Pitfour, anecdotes of, 488.

Fighting Eighty-eighth, the, 457.

Flour, on the various kinds of, and their nutritive qualities, 768.

Fontenoy, battle of, 535.

Ford's gatherings from Spain, review of, 350.

Fossa del Maritimo, prison of, 167.

Fox, anecdotes of, 488.

France, the modern court of, 1.

France, uniform triumphs of England over, 48.

France, Walpole's picture of, 206.

France, letter on, 547.

Frederick the Great, sketch of the career of, and comparison of him
with Marlborough and others, 37
  --his intimacy with Voltaire, 537.

Frederick, prince of Wales, death of, and his character, 200.

Free trade in connexion with taxation, 243.

French players and playhouses, 177.

Fuentes d' Onore, battle of, 462.

Galata, sketches of, 688.

General Mack: a Christmas carol, 92.

George II., Walpole's reign of, reviewed, 194.

George III., anecdotes of, 490.

Georges, characteristics of the reigns of the, 211.

Ghosts, letters on, 440, 541.

Gneisenau, General, 77.

Goffe the Regicide, 333.

Gold district of Siberia, the, 671.

Grand Opera at Paris, the, 180, 182.

Grattan's Adventures of the Connaught Rangers, review of, 457.

Greeks of Adalia, the, 750.

Grey, Lord, first appearance of, 479.

Guilleminot, Count, 6.

Gutch's Robin Hood, review of, 622.

Gymnase Dramatique at Paris, the, 190.

Hastings, Warren, trial of, 478, 487.

Heaven and Earth, a Sonnet, 556.

Heptarchy, the, 79.

Hervey's Theatres of Paris, review of, 177.

Highway Rates, inequalities of, 249.

Hohenfriedberg, battle of, 39.

Hohenkirchen, battle of, 42.

Horæ Catullianæ, No. I., 374
  --No. II., 501
  --No. III., 695.

Horn, Count de, execution of, 534.

How they manage matters in the model republic, 492.

How to build a house and live in it,--No. III., 727.

Hughes' Overland Journey to Lisbon, review of, 350.

Hymn of King Olaf the Saint, the, altered from the Icelandic, 682.

Imeeo, residence on island of, 763.

Income Tax, inequalities of the, 253.

Indian Life, anecdotes of, 658, 659, 660.

Indirect Taxes, probable abandonment of, in Great Britain, 244, 245.

Ireland, state of, under George II., 205
  --necessity of Poor Law for, 247
  --unjust exemption from taxation enjoyed by, 256.

Isle of Dogs, the, 50
  --tradition regarding, 52.

Italian History, modern, 162.

Java, sketches of, 318.

Joinville, Prince de, 17.

Johnston, Professor, on the nutritive qualities of the Bread now in use, 768.

Jones, Neville, 205.

Jutland 130 years since, from the Danish
  --I., the Deer Rider, 286
  --II., Ansbjerg, 289
  --III., the Nisse, 292
  --IV., the Elopement, 297
  --V., the Horse Garden, 303.

Kawashes of Turkey, the, 235.

Khan of Magnesia, the, 309.

Khans of Turkey, the, 236.

Kiachta, town of, 670.

Kolin, battle of, 41.

Krasnoyayk, town of, 671.

Lafayette, sketches of, 5.

Lament for Macrimmon, by Delta, 645.

Land, injustice of the freedom of, from legacy duty, 246.

Land Tax, injustice of the, 248.

Landsheck, battle of, 42.

Lappenberg's Anglo-Saxons, review of, 79.

Latest from the Peninsula, 350.

Law of Lauriston, 533, 534.

Lays and Legends of the Thames, No. II., 49
  --the Isle of Dogs, 50
  --the Song of the Mail Coachman, 51
  --the Presentation, 55
  --Epitaphs, 57, 61
  --Ode to Blackwall, 59
  --the Poet's Auction, 62
  --No. III., 423
  --the Vision, 424
  --the Arsenal, 426
  --True Love, 428
  --the Cardinals' voyage, 430.

Legacy duty, inequality of the, 246.

Lemaitre, the Marquis, 166.

Lemaitre, Frederick, 188.

Lena, the river, 669.

Lessons from the Famine, 515.

Letters on the Truths contained in Popular Superstitions,
  --No. I., the Divining Rod, 368
  --II., Vampyrism, 432
  --III., Spirits, Goblins, Ghosts, 440
  --IV., Real Ghosts and Second Sight, 541
  --V., Trance and Sleep-waking, 547
  --VI., Religious Delusions, the Possessed, Witchcraft, 673.

Lettres de Cachet, profligate use of, in France, 538.

Levasseur the actor, 192.

Leuthen, battle of, 41.

Life, a sonnet, 555.

Lord Sidmouth's Life and Times, 473.

Louis XV., sketches of, by Walpole, 206.

Louis XV., De Tocqueville's Memoirs of, reviewed, 525.

Louis Philippe, sketches of the court of, 1
  --his elevation, 8
  --and personal habits, 9.

Love, a sonnet, 555.

Lowositz, battle of, 40.

Macdonald, General, administration of Naples by, 164.

Mack, General, a Christmas carol, 92.

Mack, General, at Naples, 163.

Magnesia, a ride to, stage first, 231
  --II. 305.

Mahmood, the Sultan, 694.

Maid of Ulva, the, by Delta, 645.

Maida, battle of, 168.

Mail Coachman, song of the, 51.

Maison Dorée at Paris, the, 177.

Mammone, a Neapolitan bandit, 164.

Mammoth deposits of Siberia, the, 670.

Maria Theresa, accession of, and war against, 38.

Marie Amelie, Queen of Louis Philippe, 7, 8, 11.

Marlborough, comparison of, with Eugene, &c., 34.

Marriage Bill, the Scotch, 646.

Marsin, Marshal, 35.

Massillon, 532.

Mazarine, Cardinal, French Opera originated by, 180.

Melville's Omoo, review of, 754.

Mérimée, Prosper, notices of the works of, 695.

Merkatz, Lieutenant, 67, 68.

Mexican War, the, 667.

Mildred, a tale, Chap. IV., 18
  --Chap. V., 23
  --Chap. VI., 28
  --Chap. VII., 213
  --Chap. VIII., 217
  --Chap. IX., 222.

Minden, battle of, 42.

Minerals of Lake Superior, the, 658.

Mississippi Scheme, the, 533.

Modern Italian History, 162.

Mollwitz, battle of, 38.

Mont Dor, baths of, 448.

Montebello, Duchess of, 5.

Monterey, town of, 664.

Montreal, town of, 655.

Motherwell's Poems, review of, 622.

Mountaineer and Poet, the, a sonnet, 684.

Muleteers of Spain, the, 352, 354.

Murat, sketches of, 166, 167
  --as King of Naples, 170
  --death of, 175, 176.

Murray, a Jacobite, sketches of, 196.

Music, Turkish, 749.

Mytilene, Island of, 736.

Naples, sketch of the recent history of, 162.

Napoleon, comparison of Frederick the Great with, 34, 45.

Nashua, town of, 654.

Nemours, the Duc de, 17.

New Archangel, settlement of, 661.

Newcastle, the Duke of, character of, by Walpole, 202.

New England, Residence of three of the Regicides in, 333.

Newhaven, grave of the Regicides at, 334.

North America, Siberia, and Russia, 653.

Nugent, Lord, Walpole's character of, 197.

Oatmeal, superiority of, to wheat, 772.

Ochotsk, town of, 668.

Oglou, Pasha, 235.

Olaf the Saint, the Hymn of, altered from the Icelandic, 682.

Omoo, review of, 754.

Orleans, Dowager Duchess of, Anecdote of, 11.

Orleans, the Regent, 530.

Opera Comique at Paris, the, 180.

Oswald, Prince, 84.

Ottoman Empire, present state of the, 685.

Overland Journey round the Globe, Simpson's, review of, 653.

Pacific Rovings, 754.

Pano di Grajo, a Neapolitan leader, 165, 169.

Palais Royal, the, 191.

Paris, Sketches of Society in, 13.

Passaruang, town of, 332.

Pauperism and its treatment, 261.

Peel, Sir Robert, reflections on the career of, 93.

Pelham, Lord, 204, 206.

Pellew's Life of Sidmouth, review of, 473.

Peninsula, latest from the, 350.

Pépé, General, review of the memoirs of, 162.

Pépé, Florestano, 172.

Personal character, importance of, to a statesman, 93.

Peterwardin, battle of, 36.

Picton and the Connaught Rangers, 457.

Pitt, first appearance of, 476
  --notices of, 483, 484.

Poet, the, a Sonnet, 684.

Poet's Auction, the, 62.

Poetry
  --Eric's Dirge, by Delta, 91
  --the Stormy Sea, by the same, ib.
  --General Mack, 92
  --the Early Taken, 230
  --To the Stethoscope, 361
  --Epigrams, 367
  --Four Sonnets, namely, Life, Love, Heaven and Earth, the Prospect,
    by E. B. Browning, 555
  --Epitaph of Constantine Kanaris, 644
  --The Maid of Ulva, by Delta, 645
  --The Lament of Macrimmon, by the same, ib.
  --The Hymn of King Olaf the Saint, 682
  --Four Sonnets, by Elizabeth B. Browning, 683.

Police Rates, inequalities of, 250.

Polynesia, sketches of, 754.

Pomaree, Queen, 761, 766.

Pompadour, Madame de, 206.

Poor, treatment of the, 262.

Poors'-rate, inequality of the, 247.

Portuguese troops, character of the, 464.

Possession, Demoniacal, letter on, 673.

Premier, reflections: suggested by the career of the late, 93.

Prospect, the, a Sonnet, 556.

Prosper Mérimée, notices of the works of, 695.

Prussian Military Memoirs, 65.

Rahden, Baron von, wanderings of an old soldier, reviewed, 65.

Railways in Spain, 352.

Raval the Actor, 193.

Red River Settlement, the, 659.

Reflections suggested by the career of the late Premier, 93.

Regicides, cave of the, and how three of them fared in New England, 333.

Regnier, defeat of, at Maida, 168.

Reichenbach, Count, 68.

Reign of George II., the, 194.

Religious Delusions, letter on, 673.

Ride to Magnesia, a
  --stage I. 231
  --II. 305.

Robinson, Sir Thomas, 209.

Rosama, a tale of Madrid, 557.

Rosbach, battle of, 41.

Royal Arsenal, the, 426.

Ruffo, Cardinal, 164.

Russia, sketches of, 668.

Salamanca, battle of, 470.

Samson, the executioner of Paris, 15.

Sanchez, Julian, a Spanish Guerilla leader, 463.

San Francisco, harbour of, 662.

Santa Barbara, town of, 665.

Saxe, Marshal, 535.

Saxony, conquest of, by Frederick the Great, 40.

Scio, Island of, 748.

Scotch Marriage Bill, the, 646.

Scotland, new poor law for, 247.

Secker, Archbishop, character of, 198.

Second-sight, letter on, 541.

Selberg's Java, review of, 318.

Sentimental Journey, a, see New.

Sheldon's Border Minstrelsy, review of, 622.

Sheridan, speech of, on the Begum question, 478
  --notices of, 488.

Siberia, sketches of, 668.

Sidmouth, Lord, life and times of, 473.

Simpson's Overland Journey Round the World, review of, 653.

Sitka, Settlement of, 661.

Sleep-waking, letter on, 547.

Smith, John William, memoir of, by Samuel Warren, 129.

Smyrna, city of, 231, 233, 735.

Soor, battle of, 39.

Spain, sketches of modern, 350.

Spirits, Goblins, Ghosts, letter on, 440.

Stamboul, sketches of, 689.

Stamp Duties, inequalities of, 250.

Stethoscope, to the, 361.

Stewart, Sir John, 169.

Storming of the Redoubt, the, 724.

Stormy Sea, the, by Delta, 91.

Sue, Engene, 591.

Superior, Lake, the minerals of, 658.

Surabaya, town of, 324.

Tahiti, sketches of, 758.

Taxation, direct, 243,
  true principles of, 258.

Thames, Lays and Legends of the, see Lays.

Theatres of Paris, the, 177.

Theatre des Variétés, the, 187.

Thill, Colonel, 77.

Thorpe's translation of Lappenberg's Anglo-Saxons, review of, 79, 80.

Tiger Hunting in Java, 326.

Tocqueville's History of the reign of Louis XV., review of, 525.

Torgau, battle of, 43.

Treatment of Pauperism, on the, 261.

True Love, 428.

Turin, battle of, 35.

Turkey, present state of, 685.

Turkish Manners, sketches of, 231.

Turkish Watering Place, a, 735.

Turning Dervishes, the, 689.

Two Sketches, by E. B. Browning, 683.

United States, war of the, with Mexico, 667.

Ural mountains, mines of the, 671.

Vallego, General, 663.

Valona, town of, 231.

Vampyrism, letter on, 432.

Vaudeville at Paris, the, 184, 185.

Vestris, the Dancer, 181.

Vidocq, the Thief-taker, 15.

Villeroi, Marshal, 35.

Visible and Tangible, the, a metaphysical fragment, 580.

Vision, the, 424.

Voltaire, sketches of, 536, 537.

Walpole's reign of George II., review of, 194.

Walpole, Sir Robert, notices of, 197, 203, 204.

Warren, Samuel, memoir of the late John William Smith by, 129.

Watermen of London, the, 262.

Wellington, comparison of Marlborough with, 34
  --Sketches of, by Von Rahden, 75, 76.

Whalley the Regicide, 333.

Wheat, on the nutritive qualities of, and the various kinds of flour from it, 768.

Wilberforce, anecdotes of, 480.

Wilfrith, Bishop, 88.

Witchcraft, letter on, 673.

Yakutsh, province of, 669.

Yonge, Sir William, 191.

Zenta, battle of, 35.

Zorndorf, battle of, 42.

Zulares, valley of, 666.

END OF VOL. LXI.

Printed by William Blackwood and Sons, Edinburgh.