The Tenth Avenue gang is a chance affair, owing its existence to the successful and bold express
robbery occurring some years ago, but which is still fresh in the minds of most people from
the skillful manner in which it was executed, and from the number of prominent rascals participating
in it. The robbery referred to, at the time of its occurrence, was current talk, and continued
a subject of conversation for many weeks afterwards. A number of ingenious, daring and highly-cultured
train robbers, under the leadership of the notorious Ike Marsh, among whom was one who has
since attained celebrity as an actor, boarded a train on the Hudson River Railroad, near Spuyten
Duyvil, the spot immortalized by Washington Irving, and, entering the express car, bound and
gagged the messenger in charge, threw the safe off and jumped after it. The iron box contained
a large amount of greenbacks and government bonds, which the thieves succeeded in appropriating.
Some of these daring robbers were subsequently arrested and lodged in the White Plains jail,
but on the day set for the trial, the sheriff discovered that his prisoners of the night before,
whom he imagined quite secure, had left, without waiting to say good-bye. Some friends and
confederates came to their assistance, released them and drove them down to the city, from
whence they finally reached our sister Kingdom, recently made famous as the abode of the fashionable
defaulter.

The successful perpetration of this bold robbery suggested to a number of idle men the idea
of robbing the freight cars as they remained apparently unguarded on the tracks in the vicinity
of the West Thirtieth street station, and led to the formation of the notorious Tenth Avenue
gang. The cars arriving from the west and other points loaded with valuable goods and merchandise,
offered facilities of a most tempting kind to the members of this gang, and large quantities
nightly disappeared until, week after week, the goods stolen aggregated thousands of dollars
loss to the railroad company. The proximity of the river aided the operations of this gang
very materially, for much of the goods were spirited away with the assistance of the river
thieves and their boats, both sets of thieves acting, of course, in collusion.

It is a very difficult thing to map out just the precise localities where criminals reside
now, owing, in a great measure, to the efficiency of the present police, who keep evil-doers
under constant surveillance, preventing them remaining long in any one place. Of course, such
streets as are contained in wards of the city where the poorest people dwell will invariably
have their quota of questionable characters; but the days when gangs of roughs, "toughs" or
thieves can flourish in one particular section, it is to be hoped, are matters of the past.

It is a matter of surprise to other nations, and of congratulation to ourselves, that at the
present such crimes against persons and property as burglary, pocket-picking and highway robbery
are much rarer in proportion than in any other cosmopolitan city in the world.

To the wealthy resident of Fifth avenue and other noted fashionable thoroughfares, the incidents
of actual every-day life that are here revealed will read like a revelation. To the merchant
and the business man they may probably read like romance. To the thrifty mechanic, however,
who occupies a vastly different social sphere, who hurries to his work in the morning, and
with equal haste seeks to reach his home at night, this chapter may, perhaps, cause a tear
to glisten in his manly eye when the facts, here written for the first time, meet his gaze,
and, may be, are associated with some young male or female relation or friend who has "gone
wrong." But to the officers of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, and other kindred useful
societies, newspaper men, the police, and others whose daily vocations happen to keep them
out late o' nights, the truths here unfolded are of too frequent occurrence and are too familiar
sights to need any other corroborative evidence than is supplied by their own experience and
the exercise of their own observation.

Youthful vice and depravity, of all grades, is, unfortunately, the natural result of that civilization
which finds its outgrowth in large and necessarily closely-packed communities. Where ground
is dear, poor people must seek rooms in dwellings where the rent is cheap, and these dwellings
are, for the most part, erected in cheap neighborhoods--and cheap neighborhoods mean questionable
companionships and associations, and bad associations beget a familiarity with immorality of
all kinds. No one can question the truth of this. For instance, the honest and industrious
mechanic, receiving fair wages for his work, must hire lodgings or rooms in some tenement;
he goes to work during the day, leaving his wife, if he happens to have one, at home to perform
those hard household duties which fall to the lot of her class; the children--and there are
generally several, for one of the chief luxuries within the reach of the poor is children--are
allowed to take care of themselves as best they can between times; they naturally go to the
streets to play; they have no gardens, with shady graveled walks running between beds of bright
flowers; no nursery, no governesses, no nurses with French caps, and, shame be it said, hardly
any public parks; there are not even trees in this great city to cast a shade for these little
creatures in summer nor to help break the force of the wind in winter--but they play in the
streets just the same, and are under no restraint whatever, and therein lies their temptation.
What wonder that they afterwards people the gilded palaces of vice "up-town," or fill the prisons
of the city and state?

They may be approached by any one, and they are led away by many. Sometimes the ever-watchful
and lynx-eyed Chinaman singles out some pretty little girl, on the pretense that he has some
curious things to show her in his laundry. Sometimes an old, eminently respectable gentleman
(?) has a package of candy for the little girls. Sometimes, again, bright-eyed young girls
are attracted, like butterflies to bright flowers, to the gaudy signs of the Bowery museums.
Sometimes there are other inducements, in the way of store windows, or a chance acquaintance
(and they are always around, too, these obliging acquaintances), and the purchase of some trinkets,
then a hotel, a room, and our little friend has eaten of the apple. But this is premature.

The unconstrained freedom of the street, therefore, is undoubtedly one great source of danger
to the young but there are many others which, in varying degrees, conspire to ensnare and corrupt
them. So that the wonder is that so many escape rather than that so many are contaminated.

The manner in which poor people--the very poor--live in this city is, of itself, fearfully
demoralizing in its effects upon their children. Oftener than otherwise, a family, in some
cases six or seven in number, will occupy but two rooms; one, a kitchen, the other, a sleeping
apartment. In the latter room are sometimes the father, mother, one or two daughters, say ten,
twelve or fifteen years of age, and as many sons, younger or older, as the case may be. Just
think of it! think of the tender age at which these children are familiarized with what should
be as a sealed book. Think of--what frequently happens--a drunken father reeling to the marriage
bed in such a room! Think of brothers and sisters of such ages lying side by side, and think
of the mistakes that might occur when--which is possible--the whole family may have taken liquor
and the floor is one common bed. There are hundreds of families living in this big, charitable
city in this degrading manner. Is it any surprise that children here are bad and criminally
vicious at five years of age and upwards?

It not infrequently happens that the parents of families so circumstanced are sent to the "Island,"
in which case the children are then, indeed, upon the streets. Yet they are so precocious and
resourceful that they generally are able to take care of themselves, and so become flower girls,
news girls, wharf rats, etc.

There are yet other causes which go to affect the lives of the children of the poor. It sometimes
happens that the happy and virtuous home of a comparatively well-to-do mechanic is broken up
by unforeseen circumstances, against which no provident provision, except a life insurance
policy, could guard. The head of the family meets with some serious accident, incapacitating
him for labor, and straightway, instead of being the breadwinner and family support, he becomes
a care and a burden. The poor wife is thrown upon her resources, and she naturally invokes
the assistance of her children in the desperate endeavor of maintaining a roof over their heads.
In this way the ranks of the flower and news girls are frequently recruited.

Through the cursed effects of drink, the heads of many families are frequently sent to the
"Island" for from ten days to six months, and when the sheltering arms of some beneficent society,
or the kindly offices of some good Samaritan, are not directed to the forlorn and destitute
condition of the children, the unfortunate young creatures are forced upon the streets to beg,
steal, sell papers, flowers, etc., and also visit the offices of bankers and brokers, doing
anything, in short, to get the means to live. They live in the streets, sleep in hallways,
alleyways, anywhere, a prey to the first evil-disposed man that meets them. It is a common
sight to see children on the streets in all parts of the metropolis--boys and girls--aged from
five to fifteen years, selling papers, shoplifting, stealing, and,--worse. Have they parents?
Who knows, who inquires, who cares? Some of them are very pretty girls, too. All the worse
for them.

The same causes which conspire to throw girls upon their own resources to gain a livelihood,
operate with the brothers; but the latter are more fertile in means of accomplishing that end.
Girls can only sell papers, flowers or themselves, but boys can black boots, sell papers, run
errands, carry bundles, sweep out saloons, steal what is left around loose everywhere, and
gradually perfect themselves for a more advanced stage and higher grade of crimes, finally
developing into fully-fledged and first-class criminals.

So much for the causes which help to create this class of street Arabs, whom it is almost a
labor of supererogation to describe, especially to those who daily hear the familiar cries,
"Telegram!" "News!" "Telegram!" "New-es!" "Mail 'n' Express!" uttered chiefly by young girls,
all over the town. Pretty girls they are, too, many of them, with large, lustrous eyes, long,
well-oiled hair, nice shoes upon their feet, short dresses, disclosing evidences of graceful
forms, ruddy complexions, and armed with many winsome little actions calculated to conciliate
patronage. They are to be seen on Park Row, the Bowery, Chatham street, around the post-office,
hotels, elevated railroad stations, the ferries leading to Brooklyn, Jersey City and Staten
Island--everywhere, in fact, where there is a chance of disposing of the afternoon newspaper.

The larger number of these little girls emerge from their hiding-places about eleven o'clock
in the morning. Their hiding-places may have been a hotel, an assignation house, their parents'
homes, some hallway, the News Girls' Lodging House, resorts in North William, Bayard, Hester,
New Bowery, or any other street in which cheap rooms can be obtained. It is not to be presumed
that all news-girls are bad; on the contrary, many are very good, respectable little things,
but a few only remain so, for their associations are bad, and many men who purchase papers
from them are constantly tempting them, so that it is very difficult for any of them to remain
good for any length of time.

Be that as it may, however, the news girl in this case arrives down-town about noon. She strolls
down among the brokers and bankers, and in many cases is winked at, conversed with and asked
to visit different offices, which invitation is generally accepted, for a little money is to
be made by the call, with which the afternoon papers are purchased. Sometimes the selling of
papers is merely a pretext under which a better opportunity is afforded of conversing with
men. The papers are hawked in saloons, upon the streets, in cars, and other places. If any
one should chance to buy a paper and offers a nickel, the girl invariably has no change; when
the purchaser, nine times out of ten, tells her to keep the change. They are extremely shrewd,
smart, intelligent and wide awake.

Their papers all sold, about nine or ten o'clock at night they saunter up Chatham street, the
Bowery and other thoroughfares; or, if it is the summer season, they will be found in the City
Hall park, playing, sitting on the benches, or accosting passing pedestrians. The Battery,
too, has its frequenters, and the piers and docks at night are crowded with them. This life
they pursue until they engage regularly in a life of shame, by becoming regular boarders in
some one of the many dives in the cellars of Chatham street, the houses of prostitution in
Forsyth, Hester, Canal, Bayard and other streets. Or, again, they may be found in the various
pretty-waiter-girl saloons of the Bowery, or such notorious resorts as Hilly McGlory's, Owney
Geoghegan's, and so on. The public parks, however, are favorite places, and they may be found
even in Union Square and Madison Square, and sometimes in Central Park. They enjoy themselves,
too, for they are often seen on picnics in summer and at balls during the winter. They have
their favorites among the opposite sex, too, just as have more favored and aristocratic females.
For the love of one of these little girls--Mary Maguire--a member of the notorious Mackerelville
gang met a tragic end, at the hands of a jealous rival in City Hall park, by being stabbed
to death. Little Mary was only fourteen years of age. She was afterwards sent to the House
of the Good Shepherd.

Newsboys are largely responsible for leading girls of this class into the tempting paths of
vice. In purchasing their papers at the newspaper offices, generally in cellars, they are subjected
to many indignities and familiarities, which, at first resented, are gradually accepted as
a matter of course. Once the descent is begun, the journey is completed by outsiders, until
the girls become corrupt and unscrupulous, with a knowledge of the ways of the world that would
surprise many a matronly head.

In many cases, girls of five and six years are sent out as decoys by the larger ones to "rope
in" customers; for detectives and agents of the various societies, on the lookout for depraved
girls, teach those young Messalinas caution. When one of these smaller girls has secured a
customer she pilots the way to the place where the larger ones are to be found. In one instance
this was a cellar, under ground, not fifty feet from the corner of Chatham and William streets;
outwardly an oyster saloon, but a door opened in a wooden partition, through which one entered
another room, and in which, at one time, there were actually no less than nine small girls,
ranging in age from ten to sixteen years.

There are a few places where these girls resort in the day-time and remain all day, and where
they are visited by regular frequenters of the houses. Here, also, may be found those young
girls who, leaving home in the morning and telling their parents they are going to work, remain
all day; returning home again in the evening with, perhaps, a couple of dollars in their pockets,
and at the end of the week hand their parents what the old people innocently suppose is the
week's wages of their daughters, honestly obtained.

There are old-time procuresses, who, having once been news-girls themselves, know just how
to proceed to capture recruits for Hester street boarding-houses, and they obtain them, too,
from the ranks mentioned. Parents that drive their children in the streets to get money, and
beat them if they fail to fetch it home, are generally sure to either make prostitutes of their
little ones or have them run away entirely, particularly when a tempting offer is made them
by male or female. There are thousands of men in this city, as well as there are in London,
who employ procuresses, whose efforts and operations, unfortunately, are not confined to news-girls,
but include the pretty daughters of well-to-do mechanics and trades people.

Many of these girls become closely identified with the lives of Chinamen, and it is astonishing
how fond some of these girls become of their almond-eyed protectors.

Should any observant individual pass through Elizabeth, Bleecker, Canal, Hester, Bayard, Dover,
Pell, Mott, Baxter, Rose, Chambers streets, and the other localities mentioned, at night, he
will see what becomes of the pretty news-girls. But there are instances in which they have
obtained work in various factories and wholesale houses and remained respectable.

Thus far, the news-girl. Of the pretty flower girl--she with the engaging manner, and interesting
face above a tray of flowers--not much remains to be said, for she has almost become an institution
of the past. Thrown upon her own resources, from like causes affecting others of her sex, she
was once to be met with in the lobby of every theatre in town, every resort where gentlemen
were supposed to frequent, club-houses, drinking saloons, omnibuses, cars, and the streets.
Even houses of ill fame found her gently and firmly looking for trade. Wherever there was a
chance to intercept a gentleman, there was she, and her importunities to purchase were redoubled
when a lady accompanied a gentleman. They did a thriving business in the pretty-waiter-girl
saloons, for men could hardly escape them, and nearly all bought bouquets for their favorites
in those places.

It is safe to say that very few of the flower girls were virtuous. They remained out until
all hours of the night and plied a double trade, selling both their flowers and themselves.
There was one well-known house in Thirteenth street which these little girls made a headquarters.
It was between Broadway and University place. The proprietress had no other "ladies" but flower
girls, as she found them more profitable, charged them higher prices for accommodations, whether
by the day or week, and as but few places would assume the risk of harboring the waifs, they
were compelled to pay her extortionate rates.

Some time since a man could hardly pass along Fourteenth street or Union Square, at night,
without his being accosted by one of these girls, who, instead of asking him to purchase flowers,
would invariably remark, "Give me a penny, mister?" by which term, afterwards, all these girls
of loose character were known to ply their trade. Many of these girls were so exceedingly handsome
as to be taken by gentlemen of means and well cared for, and one instance is known where a
flower girl married a very wealthy man of middle age.

