"But the end is not yet. You are likely to stay out six weeks longer, and each six weeks adds
another fifteen years to your struggle to catch up with your losses. Is this a load which thinking
people would impose upon themselves? Not much! You will lose your battle, for your strike is
badly timed. It seems to be the fate of strikes to be badly timed; they usually occur when,
on account of hard times or over-supply, the employers would rather stop paying wages than
not. That's the case now. Four months of coal is in yards or on cars, and it's an absolute
benefit to the Company to turn seventy or eighty thousand dollars of dead product into live
money. Don't deceive yourselves with the hope that you are distressing the owner by your foolish
strike; you are putting money into his pockets while your families suffer for food. There is
no great principle at stake to make your conduct seem noble and to call forth sympathy for
your suffering,--only foolishness and the blind following of a demagogue whose living depends
upon your folly.

"McGinnis talked to you about the conflict between capital and labor. That is all rot. There
is not and there cannot be such a conflict. Labor makes capital, and without capital there
would be no object in labor. They are mutually dependent upon each other, and there can be
no quarrel between them, for neither could exist after the death of the other. The capitalist
is only a laborer who has saved a part of his wages, --either in his generation or in some
preceding one. Any man with a sound mind and a sound body can become a capitalist. When the
laborer has saved one dollar he is a capitalist,--he has money to lend at interest or to invest
in something that will bring a return. The second dollar is easier saved than the first, and
every dollar saved is earning something on its own account. All persons who have money to invest
or to lend are capitalists. Of course, some are great and some are small, but all are independent,
for they have more than they need for immediate personal use.

"I am going to tell you how you may all become capitalists; but first I want to point out your
real enemies. The employer is not your enemy, capital is not your enemy, but the saloonkeeper
is,--and the most deadly enemy you can possibly have. In that fringe of shanties over yonder
live the powers that keep you down; there are the foes that degrade you and your families,
forcing you to live little better than wild beasts. Your food is poor, your clothing is in
rags, your children are without shoes, your homes are desolate, there are no schools and no
social life. Year follows year in dreary monotone, and you finally die, and your neighbors
thrust you underground and have an end of you. Misery and wretchedness fill the measure of
your days, and you are forgotten.

"This dull, brutish condition is self-imposed, and to what end? That some dozen harpies may
fatten on your flesh; that your labor may give them leisure; that your suffering may give them
pleasure; that your sweat may cool their brows, and your money fill their tills!

"What do you get in return? Whiskey, to poison your bodies and pervert your minds; whiskey,
to make you fierce beasts or dull brutes; whiskey, to make your eyes red and your hands unsteady;
whiskey, to make your homes sties and yourselves fit occupants for them; whiskey, to make you
beat your wives and children; whiskey, to cast you into the gutter, the most loathsome animal
in all the world. This is cheap whiskey, but it costs you dear. All that makes life worth living,
all that raises man above the brute, and all the hope of a future life, are freely given for
this poor whiskey. The man who sells it to you robs you of your money and also of your manhood.
You pay him ten times (often twenty times) as much as it cost him, and yet he poses as your friend.

"I'm not going to say anything against beer, for I don't think good beer is very likely to
hurt a man. I will say this, however,--you pay more than twice what it is worth. This is the
point I would make: beer is a food of some value, and it should be put on a food basis in price.
It isn't more than half as valuable as milk, and it shouldn't cost more than half as much.
You can have good beer at three or four cents a quart, if you will let whiskey alone.

"I promised to tell you how to become capitalists, each and every one of you, and I'll keep
my word if you'll listen to me a little longer."

While Jack had been speaking, some of the men had shown considerable interest and had gradually
crowded their way nearer to the boy. Thirty or forty Cornishmen and perhaps as many others
of the better sort were close to the car, and seemed anxious to hear what he had to say. Back
of these, however, were the large majority of the miners and the hangers-on at the saloons,
who did not wish to hear, and did not mean that others should hear, what the boy had to say.
Led by McGinnis and the saloon-keepers, they had kept up such a row that it had been impossible
for any one, except those quite near the car, to hear at all. Now they determined to stop the
talk and to bounce the boy. They made a vigorous rush for the car with shouts and uplifted hands.

A gigantic Cornishman mounted the car, and said, in a voice that could easily be heard above
the shouting of the crowd:--

"Wait--wait a bit, men! The lad is a brave one, and ye maun own to that! There be small 'urt
in words, and mebbe 'e 'ave tole a bit truth. Me and me mates 'ere are minded to give un a
chance. If ye men don't want to 'ear 'im, you don't 'ave to stay; but don't 'e dare touchen
with a finger, or, by God! Tom Carkeek will kick the stuffin' out en 'e!"

This was enough to prevent any overt act, for Tom Carkeek was the champion wrestler in all
that county; he was fiercer than fire when roused, and he would be backed by every Cornishman
on the job.

Jack went on with his talk. "The 'Order of Thinkers' claim that you men and all of your class
spend one-third of your entire wages for whiskey and beer. There are exceptions, but the figures
will hold good. I am going to call the amount of your wages spent in this way, one-fourth.
The yearly pay-roll of this mine is, in round numbers, $200,000. Fifty thousand of this goes
into the hands of those harpies, who grow rich as you grow poor. You are surprised at these
figures, and yet they are too small. I counted the saloons over there, and I find there are
eleven of them. Divide $50,000 into eleven parts, and you would give each saloon less than
$5000 a year as a gross business. Not one of those places can run on the legitimate percentage
of a business which does not amount to more than that. Do you suppose these men are here from
charitable motives or for their health? Not at all. They are here to make money, and they do
it. Five or six hundred dollars is all they pay for the vile stuff for which they charge you
$5000. They rob you of manhood and money alike.

"Now, what would be the result if you struck on these robbers? I will tell you. In the first
place, you would save $50,000 each year, and you would be better men in every way for so doing.
You would earn more money, and your children would wear shoes and go to school. That would
be much, and well worth while; but that is not the best of it. I will make a proposition to
you, and I will promise that it shall be carried out on my side exactly as I state it.

"This is a noble property. In ten years it has paid its owner $500,000,--$50,000 a year. It
is sure to go on in this way under good management. I offer, in the name of the owner, to bond
this property to you for $300,000 for five years at six per cent. Of course this is an unusual
opportunity. The owner has grown rich out of it, and he is now willing to retire and give others
a chance. His offer to you is to sell the mine for half its value, and, at the same time, to
give you five years in which to pay for it. I will add something to this proposition, for I
feel certain that he will agree to it. It is this: Mr. Gordon will build and equip a small
brewery on this property, in which good, wholesome beer can be made for you at one cent a glass.
You are to pay for the brewery in the same way that you pay for the other property; it will
cost $25,000. This will make $325,000 which you are to pay during the next five years. How?
Let me tell you.

"The property will give you a net income of $40,000 or $50,000, and you will save $50,000 more
when you give up whiskey and get your beer for less than one-fourth of what it now costs you.
The general store at which you have always traded will be run in your interests, and all that
you buy will be cheaper. The market will be a cooperative one, which will furnish you meat,
fattened on your own land, at the lowest price. Your fruit and vegetables will come from these
broad acres, which will be yours and will cost you but little. You will earn more money because
you will be sober and industrious, and your money will purchase more because you will deal
without a middleman. You will be better clothed, better fed, and better men. Your wives will
take new interest in life, and there will be carpets on your floors, curtains at your windows,
vegetables behind your cottages, and flowers in front of them.

"All these things you will have with the money you are now earning, and at the same time you
will be changing from the laborer to the capitalist. The mine gives you a profit of $40,000,
and you save one-fourth of your wages, which makes $50,000 more,--$90,000 in all. What are
you to do with this? Less than $20,000 will cover the interest. You will have $70,000 to pay
on the principal. This will reduce the interest for the next year more than $3000. Each year
you can do as well, and by the time the five years have passed you will own the mine, the land,
the brewery, the store, the market, and this blessed blacksmith shop about which you have had
so much fuss, and also a bank with a paid-up capital of $50,000. You are capitalists, every
one of you, at the end of five years, if you wish to be, and if you are willing to give up
the single item,--whiskey.

"Do you like the plan? Do you like the prospect? Turn it over and see what objections you can
find. If you are willing to go into it, come over to Four Oaks some day and we will go more
into details. McGinnis gave you one side of the picture: I have given you the other. You are
at liberty to follow whichever you please."

Jack and Jarvis jumped off the car and struck out for home. Carkeek and his Cornishmen followed
the lads until they were well clear of the village, to protect them, and then Carkeek said:--"Me
and the others like for to hear 'e talk, mister, and we like for to 'ear 'e talk more."

"All right, Goliath," said Jack. "Come over any time and we'll make plans."

CHAPTER XLII

THE RIOT

Two days later the boys, returning from the city, were met by Jane and Jessie in the big carriage
to be driven home. Halfway to Four Oaks the carriage suddenly halted, and a confused murmur
of angry voices gave warning of trouble. Jack opened the door and stood upon the step.

"Fifteen or twenty drunken miners block the way,--they are holding the horses," said he.

"Let me out; I'll soon clear the road," said Jarvis, trying to force his way past Jack.

"Sit still, Hercules; I am slower to wrath than you are. Let me talk to them," and Jack took
three or four steps forward, followed closely by Jarvis.

"Well, men, what do you want? There is no good in stopping a carriage on the highroad."

"We want work and money and bread," said a great bearded Hun who was nearest to Jack.

"This is no way to get either. We have no work to offer, there is no bread in the carriage,
and not much money. You are dead wrong in this business, and you are likely to get into trouble.
I can make some allowance when I remember the bad whiskey that is in you, but you must get
out of our way; the road is public and we have the right to use it."

"Not until you have paid toll," said the Hun.

"That's the rooster who said we drank whiskey and didn't work. He's the fellow who would rob
a poor man of his liberty," came a voice in the crowd.

"Knock his block off!"

"Break his back!"

"Let me at him," and a score of other friendly offers came from the drunken crowd.

Jack stood steadily looking at the ruffians, his blue eyes growing black with excitement and
his hands clenched tightly in the pockets of his reefer.

"Slowly, men, slowly," said he. "If you want me, you may have me. There are ladies in the carriage;
let them go on; I'll stay with you as long as you like. You are brave men, and you have no
quarrel with ladies."

"Ladies, eh!" said the Hun, "ladies! I never saw anything but women. Let's have a look at them,
boys."

This speech was drunkenly approved, and the men pressed forward. Jack stood firm, his face
was white, but his eyes flamed.

"Stand off! There are good men who will die for those ladies, and it will go hard but bad men
shall die first."

The Hun disregarded the warning.

"I'll have a look into--"

"Hell!" said the slow-of-wrath Jack, and his fist went straight from the shoulder and smote
the Hun on the point of the jaw. It was a terrible blow, dealt with all the force of a trained
athlete, and inspired by every impulse which a man holds dear; and the half-drunken brute fell
like a stricken ox. Catching the club from the falling man, Jack made a sudden lunge forward
at the face of the nearest foe.

"Now, Jim!" he shouted, as the full fever of battle seized him. His forward lunge had placed
another miner hors de combat, and Jarvis sprang forward and secured the wounded man's bludgeon.

"Back to back, Jack, and mind your guard!"

The odds were eighteen to two against the young men, but they did not heed them. Back to back
they stood, and the heavy clubs were like feathers in their strong hands. Their skill at "single
stick" was of immense advantage, for it built a wall of defence around them. The crazy-drunk
miners rushed upon them with the fierceness of wild beasts; they crowded in so close as to
interfere with their own freedom of movement; they sought to overpower the two men by weight
of numbers and by showers of blows. Jack and Jim were kept busy guarding their own heads, and
it was only occasionally that they could give an aggressive blow. When these opportunities
came, they were accepted with fierce delight, and a miner fell with a broken head at every
blow. Two fell in front of Jack and three went down under Jarvis's club. The battle had now
lasted several minutes, and the strain on the young men was telling on their wind; they struck
as hard and parried as well as at first, but they were breathing rapidly. The young men cheered
each other with joyous words; they felt no need of aid.

"Beats football hollow!" panted Jarvis.

"Go in, old man! you're a dandy full-back!" came between strokes from Jack.

Let us leave the boys for a minute and see what the girls are doing. When Jarvis got out of
the carriage, he said:--

"Lars, if there is trouble here, you drive on as soon as you can get your horses clear. Never
mind us; we'll walk home. Get the ladies to Four Oaks as soon as possible."

When the battle began, the miners left the horses to attack the men. This gave a clear road,
and Lars was ready to drive on, but the girls were not in the carriage. They had sprung out
in the excitement of the first sound of blows; and now stood watching with glowing eyes and
white faces the prowess of their champions. For minutes they watched the conflict with fear
and pride combined. When seven or eight minutes had passed and the champions had not slain
all their enemies, some degree of terror arose in the minds of the young ladies,--terror lest
their knights be overpowered by numbers or become exhausted by slaying,--and they looked about
for aid. Lars, remembering what Jarvis had said, urged the ladies to get into the carriage
and be driven out of danger. They repelled his advice with scorn. Jane said:--"I won't stir
a step until the men can go with us!"

Jessie said never a word, but she darted forward toward the fighting men, stooped, picked up
a fallen club, and was back in an instant. Mounting quickly to the box, she said:--"I can hold
the horses. Don't you think you can help the men, Lars?"

"I'd like to try, miss," and the coachman's coat was off in a trice and the club in his hand.
He was none too soon!

Jane, who had mounted the box with Jessie, cried, "Look out, Jack!" just as a heavy stone crashed
against the back of his head. Some brute in the crowd had sent it with all his force. The stone
broke through the Derby hat and opened a wide gash in Jack's scalp, and sent him to the ground
with a thousand stars glittering before his eyes. Jane gave a sob and covered her eyes. Jessie
swayed as though she would fall, but she never took her eyes from the fallen man; her lips
moved, but she said nothing; and her face was ghastly white. Jarvis heard the dull thud against
Jack's head and knew that he was falling. Whirling swiftly, he stopped a savage blow that was
aimed at the stricken man, and with a back-handed cut laid the striker low.

"All right, Jack; keep down till the stars are gone." He stood with one sturdy leg on each
side of Jack's body and his big club made a charmed circle about him. It was not more than
twenty seconds before the wheels were out of Jack's head and he was on his feet again, though
not quite steady.

Jack's fall had given courage to the gang, and they made a furious attack upon Jarvis, who
was now alone and not a little impeded by the friend at his feet. As Jack struggled to his
legs, a furious blow directed at him was parried by Jarvis's left arm,--his right being busy
guarding his own head. The blow was a fearful one; it broke the small bone in the forearm,
beat down the guard, and came with terrible force upon poor Jack's left shoulder, disabling
it for a minute. At the same time Jarvis received a nasty blow across the face from an unexpected
quarter. He was staggered by it, but he did not fall. Jack's right arm was good and very angry;
a savage jab with his club into the face of the man who had struck Jarvis laid him low, and
Jack grinned with satisfaction.

Things were going hard with the young men. They had, indeed, disqualified nine of the enemy;
but there were still eight or ten more, and through hard work and harder knocks they had lost
more than half their own fighting strength. At this rate they would be used up completely while
there were still three or four of the enemy on foot. This was when they needed aid, and aid came.

No sooner had Lars found himself at liberty and with a club in his hands than he began to use
it with telling effect. He attacked the outer circle, striking every head he could reach, and
such was his sprightliness that four men fell headlong before the others became aware of this
attack from the rear. This diversion came at the right moment, and proved effective. There
were now but six of the enemy in fighting condition, and these six were more demoralized by
the sudden and unknown element of a rear attack than by the loss of their thirteen comrades.
They hesitated, and half turned to look, and two of them fell under the blows of Jack and Jarvis.
As the rest turned to escape, the Swede's club felled one, and the other three ran for dear
life. They did not escape, however, for the long legs of the young men were after them. Young
blood is hot, and the savage fight that had been forced upon these boys had aroused all that
was savage in them. In an instant they overtook two of the fleeing men, but neither could strike
an enemy in the back. Throwing aside their clubs, each seized his enemy by the shoulder, turned
him face to face and smote him sore, each after his fashion. Then they laughed, took hold of
hands, and walked wearily back to the carriage. Jarvis's face was covered with blood, and Jack's
neck and shoulders were drenched,--his wound had bled freely. Lars had relieved the ladies
on the box after administering kicks and blows in generous measure to the dazed and crippled
miners, who were crawling off the road or staggering along it. The Swede had a strain of fierce
North blood which was not easily laid when once aroused, and he glared around the battle-field,
hoping to find signs of resistance. When none were to be seen, he donned his coachman's coat
and sat the box like a sphinx.

The girls went quickly forward to meet the men. They said little, but they put their hands
on their battered champions in a way to make the heart of man glad. The men were flushed and
proud, as men have been, and men will be, through all time, when they have striven savagely
against other savages in the sight of their mistresses, and have gained the victory. Their
bruises were numb with exultation and their wounds dumb with pride. There was no regret for
blows given or received,--no sympathy for fallen foe. The male fights, in the presence of the
female, with savage delight, from the lowest to the highest ranks of creation, and we must
forgive our boys for some cruel exultation as they looked on the field of strife. Better feelings
will come when the blood flows less rapidly in their veins!

"We must hurry home," said Jane, "and let papa mend you." Then she burst into tears. "Oh, I
am so sorry and so frightened! Do you feel very bad, Jack? I know you are suffering dreadfully,
Mr. Jarvis. Can't I do something for you?"

"My arm is bruised a bit," said Jarvis; "if you don't mind, you can steady it a little."

Jane's soft hands clasped themselves tenderly over Jarvis's great fist, and she felt relieved
in the thought that she was doing something for her hero. She held the great right hand of
Hercules tenderly, and Jarvis never let her know that it was the left arm that had been broken.
She felt certain that he must be suffering agony, for ever and anon his fingers would close
over hers with a spasmodic grip that sent a thrill of mixed joy and pain to her heart.

While I was bandaging the broken arm I saw the young lady going through some pantomimic exercises
with her hands, as if seeking to revive the memory of some previous position; then her face
blazed with a light, half pleasure and half shame, and she disappeared.

When the carriage arrived at Four Oaks, the story was told in few words, and I immediately
set to work to "mend" the boys. Jack insisted that Jarvis should receive the first attention,
and, indeed, he looked the worse. But after washing the blood off his face, I found that beyond
a severe bruise, which would disfigure him for a few days, his face and head were unhurt. His
arm was broken and badly contused. After I had attended to it, he said:--

"Doctor, I'm as good as new; hope Jack is no worse."

I carefully washed the blood off Jack's head and neck, and found an ugly scalp wound at least
three inches long. It made me terribly anxious until I fairly proved that the bone was uninjured.
After giving the boy the tonsure, I put six stitches into the scalp, and he never said a word.
Perhaps the cause of this fortitude could be found in the blazing eyes of Jessie Gordon, which
fixed his as a magnet, while her hands clasped his tightly. Miss Jessie was as white as snow,
but there was no tremor in hand or eye. When it was all over, her voice was steady and low
as she said:--

"Jack Williams, in the olden days men fought for women, and they were called knights. It was
counted a noble thing to take peril in defence of the helpless. I find no record of more knightly
deed than you have done to-day, and I know that no knight could have done it more nobly. I
want you to wear this favor on your hand."

She kissed his hand and left the room. Jack didn't seem to mind the wound in his head, but
he gave great attention to his hand.

CHAPTER XLIII

THE RESULT

As soon as the first report of the battle reached me, I telephoned to Bill Jackson, asking
him to come at once to Four Oaks and to bring a man with him. When he arrived, attended by
his big Irishman, my men had already put one of the farm teams to a great farm wagon, and had
filled the box nearly full of hay. We gave Jackson a hurried account of the fight and asked
him to go at once and offer relief to the wounded,--if such relief were needed. Jackson was
willing enough to go, but he was greatly disappointed that he had missed the fight; it seemed
unnatural that there should be a big fight in his neighborhood and he not in it.

"I'd give a ten-acre lot to have been with you, lads," said the big farmer as he started off.

Word had been sent to Dr. High to be ready to care for some broken heads. Two hours later I
drove to the Inn at Exeter and found the doctor just commencing the work of repair. Thirteen
men had been brought in by the wagon, twelve of them more or less cut and bruised about the
head, and all needing some surgical attention. The thirteenth man was stone dead. A terrific
blow on the back of the head had crushed his skull as if it had been an egg-shell, and he must
have died instantly. After looking this poor fellow over to make sure that there was no hope
for him, we turned our attention to the wounded. The barn had been turned into a hospital,
and in two hours we had a dozen sore heads well cared for, and their owners comfortably placed
for the night on soft hay covered by blankets from the Inn. Mrs. French brought tea and gruels
for the thirsty, feverish fellows, and we placed Otto and the big Irishman on duty as nurses
for the night. The coroner had been summoned, and arrived as we finished our work. He was an
energetic official, and lost no time in getting a jury of six to listen to the statements which
the wounded men would give. To their credit be it said that every one who gave testimony at
all, gave it to the effect that the miners were crazy-drunk, that they stopped the carriage,
provoked the fight, and did their utmost to disable or destroy the enemy. The coroner would
listen to no further testimony, but gave the case to the jury. In five minutes their verdict
was returned, "justifiable and commendable homicide by person unknown to the jury."

The news of a fight and the death of a miner had reached Gordonville, where it created intense
excitement. By the time the inquest was over a crowd of at least fifty miners had collected
near the barn. Much grumbling and some loud threats were heard. Jackson took it upon himself
to meet these angry men, and no one could have done better. Stepping upon a box which raised
him a foot or two above the crowd, he said:--

"See here, fellows, I want to say a word to you. My name's Jackson--Bill Jackson; perhaps some
of you know me. If you don't, I'll introduce myself. I wasn't in this fight,--worse luck for
me! but I am wide open for engagements in that line. Some one inside said that this gang must
be conciliated, and I thought I would come out and do it. I understand that you feel sore over
this affair,--it's natural that you should,--but you must remember that those boys out at Four
Oaks couldn't accommodate all of you. If you wouldn't mind taking me for a substitute, I'll
do my level best to make it lively for you. You don't need cards of introduction to me; you
needn't be American citizens; you needn't speak English; all you have to do is to put up your
hands or cock your hats, and I'll know what you mean. If any of you thinks he hasn't had his
share of what's been going on this afternoon, he may just call on Bill Jackson for the balance.
I want to conciliate you if I can! I'm a good-tempered man, and not the kind to pick a quarrel;
but if any of you low-lived dogs are looking for a fight, I'm not the man to disappoint you!
I came out here to satisfy you in this matter and to send you home contented, and, by the jumping
Jews! I'll do it if I have to break the head of every dog's son among you! They told me to
speak gently to you, and by thunder, I've done it; but now I'm going to say a word for myself!

"A lot of your dirty crowd attacked two of the decentest men in the county when they were riding
with ladies; one of the gang got killed and the rest got their skulls cracked. Would these
boys fight for the girls they had with them? Hell's blazes! I'll fight for just thinking of
it! Just one of you duffers say 'boo' to me! I'm going right through you!"

Jackson sprang into the crowd, which parted like water before a strong swimmer. He cocked his
hat, smacked his fists, and invited any or all to stand up to him. He was crazy for a fight,
to get even with Jack and Jarvis; but no one was willing to favor him. He marched through the
gang lengthways, crossways, and diagonally, but to no purpose. In great disgust he returned
to the barn and reported that the crowd would not be "conciliated." When we left, however,
there were no miners to be seen.

It was after one o'clock in the morning when I reached home. Going directly to the room occupied
by the boys, I met Polly on the stairs.

"I'm glad you've come," said she, "for I can't do a thing with those boys; they are too wild
for any use."

Entering the room, I found the lads in bed, but hilarious. They had sent for Lars and had filled
him full of hot stuff and commendation. He was sitting on the edge of a chair between the two
beds, his honest eyes bulging and his head rolling from the effects of unusual potations. The
lads had tasted the cup, too, but lightly; their high spirits came from other sources. Victories
in war and in love deserve celebration; and when the two are united, a bit of freedom must
be permitted. They sat bolt upright against the heads of their beds with flushed faces and
shining eyes. They shouted Greek and Latin verse at the bewildered Swede; they gave him the
story of Lars Porsena in the original, and then in bad Swedish. They called him Lars Porsena,--for
had he not fought gallantly? Then he was Gustavus Adolphus,--for had he not come to the aid
of the Protestants when they were in sore need? And then things got mixed and the "Royal Swede"
was Lars Adolphus or Gustavus Porsena Viking all in one. The honest fellow was more than half
crazed by strong waters, incomprehensible words, and "jollying up" which the young chaps had
given him.

"See here, boys, don't you see that you're sending your noble Swede to his Lutzen before his
time,--not dead, indeed, but dead drunk? This isn't the sort of medicine for either of you;
you should have been asleep three hours ago. I'll take your last victim home."

We heard no more from any of the fighters until nine in the morning. In looking them over I
found that the Swede had as sore a head as either of the others, though he had never taken a blow.

Many friends came to see the boys during the days of their seclusion, to congratulate them
on their fortunate escape, and to compliment them on their skill and courage. The lads enjoyed
being made much of, and their convalescence was short and cheerful. Of course Sir Tom was the
most constant and most enthusiastic visitor. The warm-hearted Irishman loved the boys always,
but now he seemed to venerate them. The successful club fight appealed to his national instincts
as nothing else could have done.

"With twenty years off and a shillalah in me hand I would have been proud to stand with you.
By the Lord, I'm asking too much! I'll yield the twenty years and only ask for the stick!"
And his cane went whirling around his head, now guarding, now striking, and now with elaborate
flourishes, after the most approved Donny-brook fashion.

"But, me friend Jarvis, what is this you have on your face? Pond's Extract! Oh, murder! What
is the world coming to when fresh beef and usquebaugh are crowded to the wall by bad-smelling
water! Look at me nose; it is as straight as God made it, and yet many a time it has been knocked
to one side of me face or spread all over me features. Nothing but whiskey and raw beef could
ever coax it back! It's God's mercy if you are not deformed for life, me friend. Such privileges
are not to be neglected with impunity. Let me bathe your face with whiskey and put a beef-steak
poultice after it, and I'll have you as handsome as a girl in three days."

"Give me the steak and whiskey inside and I'll feel handsome at once," said Jarvis.

"Oh, the rashness of youth!" said Sir Tom. "But I'll not say a word against it. Youth is the
greatest luck in the world, and I'll not copper it."

And then our sporting friend grew reminiscent and told of a time at Limmer's when the marquis
and he occupied beds in the same room, not unlike our boys' room--only smoky and dingy--and
poulticed their battered faces with beef, and used usquebaugh inside and outside, after ten
friendly rounds.

"Queensbary's nose never resumed entirely after that night, but mine came back like rubber.
Maybe it was the beef--maybe it was usquebaugh; me own preference is in favor of the latter."

Sir Tom came every day so long as the boys were confined to the place, and each day he was
able to develop some new incident connected with the battle which called for applause. After
hearing Lars tell his story for the fourth time, he gave him a ten-dollar note, saying:--

"You did nobly for a Swede, Mr. Gustavus Adolphus, but I would give ten tenners to have had
your place and your shillalah,--a Swede for a match-lock, but an Irishman for a stick."

Jack had hardly recovered when he was waited on by a committee from the mine with a request
that he would make another speech. He was asked to make good his offer of bonding the property,
and also to formulate a plan of cooperation for the guidance of the men. Jack had the plans
for a cooperative mining village well digested, and was anxious to get them before the miners.
As soon as he was fit he went to Gordonville to try to organize the work. Jarvis of course
went with him, and Bill Jackson and Sir Tom would not be denied; they did not say so, but they
looked as if they thought some diversion might be found. In spite of the influence of strong
whiskey, however, the meeting passed off peacefully. The results that grew from this effort
at reformation were so great and so far-reaching that they deserve a book for their narration.

CHAPTER XLIV

DEEP WATERS

For sharp contrasts give me the dull country. The unexpected is the usual in small and in great
things alike as they happen on a farm, and I make no apology to the reader for entering them
in my narrative. I only ask him, if he be a city man, to take my word for the truth as to the
general facts. To some elaboration and embellishment I plead guilty, but the groundwork is
truth, and the facts stated are as real as the foundations of my buildings or the cows in my
stalls. If the fortunate reader be a country man, he will need no assurance from me, for his
eyes have seen and his ears have heard the strange and startling episodes with which the quiet
country-side is filled. I do not dare record all the adventures which clustered around us at
Four Oaks. People who know only the monotonous life of cities would not believe the half if
told, and I do not wish to invite discredit upon my story of the making of the factory farm.

The incidents I have given of the strike at Gordon's mine are substantially correct, and I
would love to follow them to their sequel,--the coöperative mine; but as that is a story by
itself, I cannot do it now. I promise myself, however, the pleasure of writing a history of
this innovation in coal-mining at an early date. It is worth the world's knowing that a copartnership
can exist between three hundred equal partners without serious friction, and that community
in business interests on a large scale can be successfully managed without any effort to control
personal liberty, either domestic, social, or religious. Indeed, I believe the success of this
experiment is due largely to the absence of any attempt to superintend the private interests
of its members,--the only bond being a common financial one, and the one requisite to membership,
ability to save a portion of the wages earned.

But to go back to farm matters. In August the ground was stirred for the second time around
the young trees. To do this, the mulch was turned back and the surface for a space of three
feet all around the tree was loosened by hoe or mattock, and the mulch was then returned. The
trees were vigorous, and their leaves had the polish of health, in spite of the dry July and
August. The mulching must receive the credit for much of this thrift, for it protected the
soil from the rays of the sun and invited the deep moisture to rise toward the surface. Few
people realize the amount of water that enters into the daily consumption of a tree. It is
said that the four acres of leaf surface of a large elm will transpire or yield to evaporation
eight tons of water in a day, and that it takes more than five hundred tons of water to produce
one ton of hay, wheat, oats, or other crop. This seems enormous; but an inch of rain on an
acre of ground means more than a hundred tons of water, and precipitation in our part of the
country is about thirty-six inches per annum, so that we can count on over thirty-six hundred
tons of water per acre to supply this tremendous evaporation of plant life.

Water-pot and hose look foolish in the face of these figures; indeed, they are poor makeshifts
to keep life in plants during pinching times. A much more effective method is to keep the soil
loose under a heavy mulch, for then the deep waters will rise. In our climate the tree's growth
for the year is practically completed by July 15, and fortunately dry times rarely occur so
early. We are, therefore, pretty certain to get the wood growth, no matter how dry the year,
since it would take several years of unusual drought to prevent it. Of course the wood is not
all that we wish for in fruit trees; the fruit is the main thing, and to secure the best development
of it an abundant rainfall is needed after the wood is grown. If the rain doesn't come in July
and August, heavy mulching must be the fruit-grower's reliance, and a good one it will prove
if the drought doesn't continue more than one year. After July the new wood hardens and gets
ready for the trying winter. If July and August are very wet, growth may continue until too
late for the wood to harden, and it consequently goes into winter poorly prepared to resist
its rigors. The result is a killing back of the soft wood, but usually no serious loss to the
trees. The effort to stimulate late summer growth by cultivation and fertilization is all wrong;
use manures and fertilizers freely from March until early June, but not later. The fall mulch
of manure, if used, is more for warmth than for fertility; it is a blanket for the roots, but
much of its value is leached away by the suns and rains of winter.

I felt that I had made a mistake in not sowing a cover crop in my orchard the previous year.
There are many excellent reasons for the cover crop and not one against it. The first reason
is that it protects the land from the rough usage and wash of winter storms; the second, that
it adds humus to the soil; and the third, if one of the legumes is used, that it collects nitrogen
from the air, stores it in each knuckle and joint, and holds it there until it is liberated
by the decay of the plant. As nitrogen is the most precious of plant foods, and as the nitrate
beds and deposits are rapidly becoming exhausted, we must look to the useful legumes to help
us out until the scientists shall be able to fix the unlimited but volatile supply which the
atmosphere contains, and thus to remove the certain, though remote, danger of a nitrogen famine.
That this will be done in the near future by electric forces, and with such economy as to make
the product available for agricultural purposes, is reasonably sure. In the meantime we must
use the vetches, peas, beans, and clovers which are such willing workers.

The legumes fulfil the three requisites of the cover crop: protection, humus, and the storing
of nitrogen. That was why, when the corn in the orchard was last cultivated in July, I planted
cow peas between the rows. The peas made a fair growth in spite of the dry season, and after
the corn was cut they furnished fine pasture for the brood sows, that ate the peas and trampled
down the vines. In the spring ploughing this black mat was turned under, and with it went a
store of fertility to fatten the land. Cow peas were sowed in all the corn land in 1897, and
the rule of the farm is to sow corn-fields with peas, crimson clover, or some other leguminous
plant. As my land is divided almost equally each year between corn and oats, which follow each
other, it gets a cover crop turned under every two years over the whole of it. Great quantities
of manure are hauled upon the oat stubble in the early spring, and these fields are planted
to corn, while the corn stubble is fertilized by the cover crop, and oats are sown. The land
is taxed heavily every year, but it increases in fertility and crop-making capacity. For the
past two years my oats have averaged forty-seven bushels and my corn nearly sixty-eight bushels
per acre. There is no waste land in my fields, and we have made such a strenuous fight against
weeds that they no longer seriously tax the land. The wisdom of the work done on the fence
rows is now apparent. The ploughing and seeding made it easy to keep the brush and weeds down;
hay gathered close to the fences more than pays us for the mowing; and we have no tall weed
heads to load the wind with seeds. This is a matter which is not sufficiently considered by
the majority of farmers, for weeds are allowed to tax the land almost as much as crops do,
and yet they pay no rent. Fence lines and corners are usually breeding beds for these pests,
and it will pay any landowner to suppress them.

CHAPTER XLV

DOGS AND HORSES

It was definitely decided in August that Jane was not to go back to Farmington. We had all
been of two minds over this question, and it was a comfort to have it settled, though I always
suspect that my share of it was not beyond the suspicion of selfishness.

Jane was just past nineteen. She had a fair education, so far as books go, and she did not
wish to graduate simply for the honor of a diploma. Indeed, there were many studies between
her and the diploma which she loathed. She could never understand how a girl of healthy mind
could care for mathematics, exact science, or dead languages. English and French were enough
for her tongue, and history, literature, and metaphysics enough for her mind.

"I can learn much more from the books in your library and from the dogs and horses than I can
at school, besides being a thousand times happier; and oh, Dad, if you will let me have a forge
and workshop, I will make no end of things."

This was a new idea to me, and I looked into it with some interest. I knew that Jane was deft
with her fingers, but I did not know that she had a special wish to cultivate this deftness
or to put it to practical use.

"What can you do with a forge?" said I. "You can't shoe the horses or sharpen the ploughs.
Can you make nails? They are machine-made now, and you couldn't earn ten cents a week, even
at horse-shoe nails."

"I don't want to make nails, Dad; I want to work in copper and brass, and iron, too, but in
girl fashion. Mary Town has a forge in Hartford, and I spent lots of Saturdays with her. She
says that I am cleverer than she is, but of course she was jollying me, for she makes beautiful
things; but I can learn, and it's great fun."

"What kind of things does this young lady make, dear?"

"Lamp-shades, paper-knives, hinges, bag-tops, buckles, and lots of things. She could sell them,
too, if she had to. It's like learning a trade, Dad."

"All right, child, you shall have a forge, if you will agree not to burn yourself up. Do you
roll up your sleeves and wear a leather apron?"

"Why, of course, just like a blacksmith; only mine will be of soft brown leather and pinked
at the edges."

So Jane was to have her forge. We selected a site for it at once in the grove to the east of
the house and about 150 yards away, and set the carpenter at work. The shop proved to be a
feature of the place, and soon became a favorite resort for old and young for five o'clock
teas and small gossiping parties. The house was a shingled cottage, sixteen by thirty-two,
divided into two rooms. The first room, sixteen by twenty, was the company room, but it contained
a work bench as well as the dainty trappings of a girl's lounging room. In the centre of the
wall that separated the rooms was a huge brick chimney, with a fireplace in the front room
and a forge bed in the rear room, which was the forge proper.

I suppose I must charge the $460 which this outfit cost to the farm account and pay yearly
interest on it, for it is a fixture; but I protest that it is not essential to the construction
of a factory farm, and it may be omitted by those who have no daughter Jane.

There were other things hinging on Jane's home-staying which made me think that, from the standpoint
of economy, I had made a mistake in not sending her back to Farmington. It was not long before
the dog proposition was sprung upon me; insidiously at first, until I had half committed myself,
and then with such force and sweep as to take me off my prudent feet. My own faithful terrier,
which had dogged my heels for three years, seemed a member of the family, and reasonably satisfied
my dog needs. That Jane should wish a terrier of some sort to tug at her skirts and claw her
lace was no more than natural, and I was quite willing to buy a blue blood and think nothing
of the $20 or $30 which it might cost. We canvassed the list of terriers,--bull, Boston, fox,
Irish, Skye, Scotch, Airedale, and all,--and had much to say in favor of each. One day Jane said:--

"Dad, what do you think of the Russian wolf-hound?"

"Fine as silk," said I, not seeing the trap; "the handsomest dog that runs."

"I think so, too. I saw some beauties in the Seabright kennels. Wouldn't one of them look fine
on the lawn?--lemon and white, and so tall and silky. I saw one down there, and he wasn't a
year old, but his tail looked like a great white ostrich feather, and it touched the ground.
Wouldn't it be grand to have such a dog follow me when I rode. Say, Dad, why not have one?"

"What do you suppose a good one would cost?"

"I don't know, but a good bit more than a terrier, if they sell dogs by size. May I write and
find out?"

"There's no harm in doing that," said I, like the jellyfish that I am.

Jane wasted no time, but wrote at once, and at least seventeen times each day, until the reply
came, she gave me such vivid accounts of the beauties of the beasts and of the pleasure she
would have in owning one, that I grew enthusiastic as well, and quite made up my mind that
she should not be disappointed. When the letter came, there was suppressed excitement until
she had read it, and then excitement unsuppressed.

"Dad, we can have Alexis, son of Katinka by Peter the Great, for $125! See what the letter
says: 'Eleven months old, tall and strong in quarters, white, with even lemon markings, better
head than Marksman, and a sure winner in the best of company.' Isn't that great? And I don't
think $125 is much, do you?"

"Not for a horse or a house, dear, but for a dog--"

"But you know, Dad, this isn't a common dog. We mustn't think of it as a dog; it's a barzoi;
that isn't too much for a barzoi, is it?"

"Not for a barzoi, or a yacht either; I guess you will have to have one or the other."

"The Seabright man says he has a girl dog by Marksman out of Katrina that is the very picture
of Alexis, only not so large, and he will sell both to the same person for $200; they are such
good friends."

"Break away, daughter, do you want a steam launch with your yacht?"

"But just think, Dad, only $75 for this one. You save $50, don't you see?"

"Dimly, I must confess, as through a glass darkly. But, dear, I may come to see it through
your eyes and in the light of this altruistic dog fancier. I'm such a soft one that it's a
wonder I'm ever trusted with money."

The natural thing occurred once more; the fool and his money parted company, and two of the
most beautiful dogs came to live on our lawn. To live on our lawn, did I say? Not much! Such
wonderful creatures must have a house and grounds of their own to retire to when they were
weary of using ours, or when our presence bored them. The kennel and runs were built near the
carriage barn, the runs, twenty by one hundred feet, enclosed with high wire netting. The kennel,
eight by sixteen, was a handsome structure of its kind, with two compartments eight by eight
(for Jane spoke for the future), and beds, benches, and the usual fixtures which well-bred
dogs are supposed to require.

The house for these dogs cost $200, so I was obliged to add another $400 to the interest-bearing
debt. "If Jane keeps on in this fashion," thought I, "I shall have to refund at a lower rate,"--and
she did keep on. No sooner were the dogs safely kennelled than she began to think how fine
it would look to be followed by this wonderful pair along the country roads and through the
streets of Exeter. To be followed, she must have a horse and a saddle and a bridle and a habit;
and later on I found that these things did not grow on the bushes in our neighborhood. I drew
a line at these things, however, and decided that they should not swell the farm account. Thus
I keep from the reader's eye some of the foolishness of a doting parent who has always been
as warm wax in the hands of his, nearly always, reasonable children.

In my stable were two Kentucky-bred saddlers of much more than average quality, for they had
strains of warm blood in their veins. There is no question nowadays as to the value of warm
blood in either riding or driving horses. It gives ability, endurance, courage, and docility
beyond expectation. One-sixteenth thorough blood will, in many animals, dominate the fifteen-sixteenths
of cold blood, and prove its virtue by unusual endurance, stamina, and wearing capacity.

The blue-grass region of Kentucky has furnished some of the finest horses in the world, and
I have owned several which gave grand service until they were eighteen or twenty years old.
An honest horseman at Paris, Kentucky, has sold me a dozen or more, and I was willing to trust
his judgment for a saddler for Jane. My request to him was for a light-built horse; weight,
one thousand pounds; game and spirited, but safe for a woman, and one broken to jump. Everything
else, including price, was left to him.

In good time Jane's horse came, and we were well pleased with it, as indeed we ought to have
been. My Paris man wrote: "I send a bay mare that ought to fill the bill. She is as quiet as
a kitten, can run like a deer, and jump like a kangaroo. My sister has ridden her for four
months, and she is not speaking to me now. If you don't like her, send her back."

But I did like her, and I sent, instead, a considerable check. The mare was a bright bay with
a white star on her forehead and white stockings on her hind feet, stood fifteen hands three
inches, weighed 980 pounds, and looked almost too light built; but when we noted the deep chest,
strong loins, thin legs, and marvellous thighs, we were free to admit that force and endurance
were promised. Jane was delighted.

"Dad, if I live to be a hundred years old, I will never forget this day. She's the sweetest
horse that ever lived. I must find a nice name for her, and to-morrow we will take our first
ride, you and Tom and Aloha and I--yes, that's her name."

We did ride the next day, and many days thereafter; and Aloha proved all and more than the
Kentuckian had promised.

CHAPTER XLVI

THE SKIM-MILK TRUST

The third quarter of the year made a better showing than any previous one, due chiefly to the
sale of hogs in August. The hens did well up to September, when they began to make new clothes
for themselves and could not be bothered with egg-making. There were a few more than seven
hundred in the laying pens, and nearly as many more rapidly approaching the useful age. The
chief advantage in early chickens is that they will take their places at the nests in October
or November while the older ones are dressmaking. This is important to one who looks for a
steady income from his hens,--October and November being the hardest months to provide for.
A few scattered eggs in the pullet runs showed that the late February and early March chickens
were beginning to have a realizing sense of their obligations to the world and to the Headman,
and that they were getting into line to accept them. More cotton-seed meal was added to the
morning mash for the old hens, and the corn meal was reduced a little and the oatmeal increased,
as was also the red pepper; but do what you will or feed what you like, the hen will insist
upon a vacation at this season of the year. You may shorten it, perhaps, but you cannot prevent
it. The only way to keep the egg-basket full is to have a lot of youngsters coming on who will
take up the laying for October and November.

We milked thirty-seven cows during July, August, and September, and got more than a thousand
pounds of milk a day. The butter sold amounted to a trifle more than $375 a month. I think
this an excellent showing, considering the fact that the colony at Four Oaks never numbered
less than twenty-four during that time, and often many more.

I ought to say that the calves had the first claim to the skim-milk; but as we never kept many
for more than a few weeks, this claim was easily satisfied. It was like the bonds of a corporation,--the
first claim, but a comparatively small one. The hens came next; they held preferred stock,
and always received a five-pound, semi-daily dividend to each pen of forty. The growing pigs
came last; they held the common stock, which was often watered by the swill and dish-water
from both houses and the buttermilk and butter-washing from the dairy. I hold that the feeding
value of skim-milk is not less than forty cents a hundred pounds, as we use it at Four Oaks.
This seems a high price when it can often be bought for fifteen cents a hundred at the factories;
but I claim that it is worth more than twice as much when fed in perfect freshness,--certainly
$4 a day would not buy the skim-milk from my dairy, for it is worth more than that to me to
feed. This by-product is essential to the smooth running of my factory. Without it the chickens
and pigs would not grow as fast, and it is the best food for laying hens,--nothing else will
give a better egg-yield. The longer my experiment continues, the stronger is my faith that
the combination of cow, hog, and hen, with fruit as a filler, are ideal for the factory farm.
With such a plant well-started and well-managed, and with favorable surroundings, I do not
see how a man can prevent money from flowing to him in fair abundance. The record of the fourth
quarter is as follows:--

Butter       $1126.00
Eggs           351.00
Hogs          1807.00
             --------
   Total     $3284.00

CHAPTER XLVII

NABOTH'S VINEYARD

>One hazy, lazy October afternoon, as my friend Kyrle and I sat on the broad porch hitting
our pipes, sipping high balls, and watching the men and machines in the corn-fields, as all
toiling sons of the soil should do, he said:--

"Doctor, I don't think you've made any mistake in this business."

"Lots of them, Kyrle; but none too serious to mend."

"Yes, I suppose so; but I didn't mean it that way. It was no mistake when you made the change."

"You're right, old man. It's done me a heap of good, and Polly and the youngsters were never
so happy. I only wish we had done it earlier."

"Do you think I could manage a farm?"

"Why, of course you can; you've managed your business, haven't you? You've grown rich in a
business which is a great sight more taxing. How have you done it?"

"By using my head, I suppose."

"That's just it; if a man will use his head, any business will go,--farming or making hats.
It's the gray matter that counts, and the fellow that puts a little more of it into his business
than his neighbor does, is the one who'll get on."

"But farming is different; so much seems to depend upon winds and rains and frosts and accidents
of all sorts that are out of one's line."

"Not so much as you think, Kyrle. Of course these things cut in, but one must discount them
in farming as in other lines of business. A total crop failure is an unknown thing in this
region; we can count on sufficient rain for a moderate crop every year, and we know pretty
well when to look for frosts. If a man will do well by his land, the harvest will come as sure
as taxes. All the farmer has to do is to make the best of what Nature and intelligent cultivation
will always produce. But he must use his gray matter in other ways than in just planning the
rotation of crops. When he finds his raw staples selling for a good deal less than actual value,--less
than he can produce them for, he should go into the market and buy against higher prices, for
he may be absolutely certain that higher prices will come."

"But how is one to know? Corn changes so that one can't form much idea of its actual value."

"No more than other staples. You know what fur is worth, because you've watched the fur market
for twenty years. If it should fall to half its present price, you would feel safe in buying
a lot. You know that it would make just as good hats as it ever did, and that the hats, in
all probability, would give you the usual profit. It's the same with corn and oats. I know
their feeding value; and when they fall much below it, I fill my granary, because for my purpose
they are as valuable as if they cost three times as much. Last year I bought ten thousand bushels
of corn and oats at a tremendously low price. I don't expect to have such a chance again; but
I shall watch the market, and if corn goes below thirty cents or oats below twenty cents, I
will fill my granary to the roof. I can make them pay big profits on such prices."

"Will you sell this plant, Williams?"

"Not for a song, you may be sure."

"What has it cost you to date?"

"Don't know exactly,--between $80,000 and $90,000, I reckon; the books will show."

"Will you take twenty per cent advance on what the books show? I'm on the square."

"Now see here, old man, what would be the good of selling this factory for $100,000? How could
I place the money so that it would bring me half the things which this farm brings me now?
Could I live in a better house, or have better food, better service, better friends, or a better
way of entertaining them? You know that $5000 or $6000 a year would not supply half the luxury
which we secure at Four Oaks, or give half the enjoyment to my family or my friends. Don't
you see that it makes little difference what we call our expenses out here, so long as the
farm pays them and gives us a surplus besides? The investment is not large for one to get a
living from, and it makes possible a lot of things which would be counted rank extravagance
in the city. Here's one of them."

A cavalcade was just entering the home lot. First came Jessie Gordon on her thoroughbred mare
Lightfoot, and with her, Laura on my Jerry. Laura's foot is as dainty in the stirrup as on
the rugs, and she has Jerry's consent and mine to put it where she likes. Following them were
Jane and Bill Jackson, with Jane's slender mare looking absolutely delicate beside the big
brown gelding that carried Jackson's 190 pounds with ease. The horses all looked as if there
had been "something doing," and they were hurried to the stables. The ladies laughed and screamed
for a season, as seems necessary for young ladies, and then departed, leaving us in peace.
Jackson filled his pipe before remarking:--

"I've been over the ridge into the Dunkard settlement, and they have the cholera there to beat
the band. Joe Siegel lost sixty hogs in three days, and there are not ten well hogs in two
miles. What do you think of that?"

"That means a hard 'fight mit Siegel,'" said Kyrle.

"It ought to mean a closer quarantine on this side of the ridge," said I, "and you must fumigate
your clothes before you appear before your swine, Jackson. It's more likely to be swine plague
than cholera at this time of the year, but it's just as bad; one can hardly tell the difference,
and we must look sharp."

"How does the contagion travel, Doctor?"

"On horseback, when such chumps as you can be found. You probably have some millions of germs
up your sleeve now, or, more likely, on your back, and I wouldn't let you go into my hog pen
for a $2000 note. I'm so well quarantined that I don't much fear contagion; but there's always
danger from infected dust. The wind blows it about, and any mote may be an automobile for a
whole colony of bacteria, which may decide to picnic in my piggery. This dry weather is bad
for us, and if we get heavy winds from off the ridge, I'm going to whistle for rain."

"I say, Williams, when you came out here I thought you a tenderfoot, sure enough, who was likely
to pay money for experience; but, by the jumping Jews! you've given us natives cards and spades."

"I was a tenderfoot so far as practical experience goes, but I tried to use the everyday sense
which God gave me, and I find that's about all a man needs to run a business like this."

"You run it all right, for returns, and that's what we are after; and I'm beginning to catch
on. I want you to tell me, before Kyrle here, why you gave me that bull two years ago."

"What's the matter with the bull, Jackson? Isn't he all right?"

"Sure he's all right, and as fine as silk; but why did you give him to me? Why didn't you keep
him for yourself?"

"Well, Bill, I thought you would like him, and we were neighbors, and--"

"You thought I would save you the trouble of keeping him, didn't you?"

"Well, perhaps that did have some influence. You see, this is a factory farm from fence to
fence, except this forty which Polly bosses, and the utilitarian idea is on top. Keeping the
bull didn't exactly run with my notion of economy, especially when I could conveniently have
him kept so near, and at the same time be generous to a neighbor."

"That's it, and it's taken me two years to find it out. You're trying to follow that idea all
along the line. You're dead right, and I'm going to tag on, if you don't mind. I was glad enough
for your present at the time, and I'm glad yet; but I've learned my lesson, and you may bet
your dear life that no man will ever again give me a bull."

"That's right, Jackson. Now you have struck the key-note; stick to it, and you will make money
twice as fast as you have done. Have a mark, and keep your eye on it, and your plough will
turn a straight furrow."

Jackson sent for his horse, and just before he mounted, I said, "Are you thinking of selling
your farm?"

"I used to think of it, but I've been to school lately and can 'do my sums' better. No, I guess
I won't sell the paternal acres; but who wants to buy?"

"Kyrle, here, is looking for a farm about the size of yours, and to tell you the truth I should
like him for a neighbor. It's dollars to doughnuts that I could give him a whole herd of bulls."

"Indeed, you can't do anything of the kind! I wouldn't take a gold dollar from you until I
had it tested. I'm on to your curves."

"But seriously, Jackson, I must have more land; my stock will eat me out of house and home
by the time the factory is running full steam. What would you say to a proposition of $10,000
for one hundred acres along my north line?"

"A year ago I would have jumped at it. Now I say 'nit.' I need it all, Doctor; I told you I
was going to tag on. But what's the matter with the old lady's quarter across your south road?"

"Nothing's the matter with the land, only she won't sell it at any price."

"I know; but that drunken brute of a son will sell as soon as she's under the sod, and they
say the poor old girl is on her last legs,--down with distemper or some other beastly disease.
I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll sound the renegade son and see how he measures. Some one will
get it before long, and it might as well be you."

Jackson galloped off, and Kyrle and I sat on the porch and divided the widow's 160-acre mite.
It was a good strip of land, lying a fair mile on the south road and a quarter of a mile deep.
The buildings were of no value, the fences were ragged to a degree, but I coveted the land.
It was the vineyard of Naboth to me, and I planned its future with my friend and accessory
sitting by. I destroyed the estimable old lady's house and barns, ran my ploughshares through
her garden and flower beds, and turned the home site into one great field of lusty corn, without
so much as saying by your leave. Thus does the greed of land grow upon one. But in truth, I
saw that I must have more land. My factory would require more than ten thousand bushels of
grain, with forage and green foods in proportion, to meet its full capacity, and I could not
hope to get so much from the land then under cultivation. Again, in a few years--a very few--the
fifty acres of orchard would be no longer available for crops, and this would still further
reduce my tillable land. With the orchards out of use, I should have but 124 acres for all
crops other than hay. If I could add this coveted 160, it would give me 250 acres of excellent
land for intensive farming.

"I should like it on this side of the road," said I, "but I suppose that will have to do."

"What will have to do?" asked Kyrle.

"The 160 acres over there."

"You unconscionable wretch! Have you evicted the poor widow, and she on her deathbed? For stiffening
the neck and hardening the heart, commend me to the close-to-nature life of the farmer. I wouldn't
own a farm for worlds. It risks one's immortality. Give me the wicked city for pasturage--and
a friend who will run a farm, at his own risk, and give me the benefit of it."

CHAPTER XLVIII

MAIDS AND MALLARDS

We have so rarely entered our house with the reader that he knows little of its domestic machinery.
So much depends upon this machinery that one must always take it into consideration when reckoning
the pleasures and even the comforts of life anywhere, and this is especially true in the country.
We have such a lot of people about that our servants cannot sing the song of lonesomeness that
makes dolor for most suburbanites. They are "churched" as often as they wish, and we pay city
wages; but still it is not all clear sailing in this quarter of Polly's realm. I fancy that
we get on better than some of our neighbors; but we do not brag, and I usually feel that I
am smoking my pipe in a powder magazine. There is something essentially wrong in the working-girl
world, and I am glad that I was not born to set it right. We cannot down the spirit of unrest
and improvidence that holds possession of cooks and waitresses, and we needs must suffer it
with such patience as we can.

Two of our house servants were more or less permanent; that is, they had been with us since
we opened the house, and were as content as restless spirits can be. These were the housekeeper
and the cook,--the hub of the house. The former is a Norwegian, tall, angular, and capable,
with a knot of yellow hair at the back of her head,--ostensibly for sticking lead pencils into,--and
a disposition to keep things snug and clean. Her duties include the general supervision of
both houses and the special charge of store-rooms, food cellars, and table supplies of all
sorts. She is efficient, she whistles while she works, and I see but little of her. I suspect
that Polly knows her well.

The cook, Mary, is small, Irish, gray, with the temper of a pepper-pod and the voice of a guinea-hen
suffering from bronchitis, but she can cook like an angel. She is an artist, and I feel as
if the seven-dollar-a-week stipend were but a "tip" to her, and that sometime she will present
me with a bill for her services. My safeguard, and one that I cherish, is an angry word from
her to the housekeeper. She jeeringly asserted that she, the cook, got $2 a week more than
she, the housekeeper, did. As every one knows that the housekeeper has $5 a week, I am holding
this evidence against the time when Mary asks for a lump sum adequate to her deserts. The number
of things which Mary can make out of everything and out of nothing is wonderful; and I am fully
persuaded that all the moneys paid to a really good cook are moneys put into the bank. I often
make trips to the kitchen to tell Mary that "the dinner was great," or that "Mrs. Kyrle wants
the receipt for that pudding," or that "my friend Kyrle asks if he may see you make a salad
dressing;" but "don't do it, Mary; let the secret die with you." The cook cackles, like the
guinea-hen that she is, but the dishes are none the worse for the commendation.

The laundress is just a washerwoman, so far as I know. She undoubtedly changes with the seasons,
but I do not see her, though the clothes are always bleaching on the grass at the back of the
house.

The maids are as changeable as old-fashioned silk. There are always two of them; but which
two, is beyond me. I tell Polly that Four Oaks is a sprocket-wheel for maids, with two links
of an endless chain always on top. It makes but little difference which links are up, so the
work goes smoothly. Polly thinks the maids come to Four Oaks just as less independent folk
go to the mountains or the shore, for a vacation, or to be able to say to the policeman, "I've
been to the country." Their system is past finding out; but no matter what it is, we get our
dishes washed and our beds made without serious inconvenience. The wage account in the house
amounts to just $25 a week. My pet system of an increasing wage for protracted service doesn't
appeal to these birds of passage, who alight long enough to fill their crops with our wild
rice and celery, and then take wing for other feeding-grounds. This kind of life seems fitted
for mallards and maids, and I have no quarrel with either. From my view, there are happier
instincts than those which impel migration; but remembering that personal views are best applied
to personal use, I wish both maids and mallards bon voyage.

CHAPTER XLIX

THE SUNKEN GARDEN

Extending directly west from the porch for 150 feet is an open pergola, of simple construction,
but fast gaining beauty from the rapid growth of climbers which Polly and Johnson have planted.
It is floored with brick for the protection of dainty feet, and near the western end cluster
rustic benches, chairs, tables, and such things as women and gardeners love. Facing the west
50 feet of this pergola is Polly's sunken flower garden, which is her special pride. It extends
south 100 feet, and is built in the side of the hill so that its eastern wall just shows a
coping above the close-cropped lawn. Of course the western wall is much higher, as the lawn
slopes sharply; but it was filled in so as to make this wall-enclosed garden quite level. The
walls which rise above the flower beds 4½ feet, are beginning to look decorated, thanks to
creeping vines and other things which a cunning gardener and Polly know. Flowers of all sorts--annuals,
biennials (triennials, perhaps), and perennials--cover the beds, which are laid out in strange,
irregular fashion, far indeed from my rectangular style. These beds please the eye of the mistress,
and of her friends, too, if they are candid in their remarks, which I doubt.

While excavating the garden we found a granite boulder shaped somewhat like an egg and nearly
five feet long. It was a big thing, and not very shapely; but it came from the soil, and Polly
wanted it for the base of her sun-dial. We placed it, big end down, in the mathematical centre
of the garden (I insisted on that), and sunk it into the ground to make it solid; then a stone
mason fashioned a flat space on the top to accommodate an old brass dial that Polly had found
in Boston. The dial is not half bad. From the heavy, octagonal brass base rises a slender quill
to cast its shadow on the figured circle, while around this circle old English characters ask,
"Am I not wise, who note only bright hours?" A plat of sod surrounds the dial, and Polly goes
to it at least once a day to set her watch by the shadow of the quill, though I have told her
a hundred times that it is seventeen minutes off standard time. I am convinced that this estimable
lady wilfully ignores conventional time and marks her cycles by such divisions as "catalogue
time," "seed-buying time," "planting time," "sprouting time," "spraying time," "flowering time,"
"seed-gathering time," "mulching time," and "dreary time," until the catalogues come again.
I know it seemed no time at all until she had let me in to the tune of $687 for the pergola,
walls, and garden. She bought the sun-dial with her own money, I am thankful to say, and it
doesn't enter into this account. I think it must have cost a pretty penny, for she had a hat
"made over" that spring.

Polly has planted the lawn with a lot of shade trees and shrubs, and has added some clumps
of fruit trees. Few trees have been planted near the house; the four fine oaks, from which
we take our name, stand without rivals and give ample shade. The great black oak near the east
end of the porch is a tower of strength and beauty, which is "seen and known of all men," while
the three white oaks farther to the west form a clump which casts a grateful shade when the
sun begins to decline. The seven acres of forest to the east is left severely alone, save where
the carriage drive winds through it, and Polly watches so closely that the foot of the Philistine
rarely crushes her wild flowers. Its sacredness recalls the schoolgirl's definition of a virgin
forest: "One in which the hand of man has never dared to put his foot into it." Polly wanders
in this grove for hours; but then she knows where and how things grow, and her footsteps are
followed by flowers. If by chance she brushes one down, it rises at once, shakes off the dust,
and says, "I ought to have known better than to wander so far from home."

She keeps a wise eye on the vegetable garden, too, and has stores of knowledge as to seed-time
and harvest and the correct succession of garden crops. She and Johnson planned a greenhouse,
which Nelson built, for flowers and green stuff through the winter, she said; but I think it
is chiefly a place where she can play in the dirt when the weather is bad. Anyhow, that glass
house cost the farm $442, and the interest and taxes are going on yet. I as well as Polly had
to do some building that autumn. Three more chicken-houses were built, making five in all.
Each consists in ten compartments twenty feet wide, of which each is intended to house forty
hens. When these houses were completed, I had room for forty pens of forty each, which was
my limit for laying hens. In addition was one house of ten pens for half-grown chickens and
fattening fowls. It would take the hatch of another year to fill my pens, but one must provide
for the future. These three houses cost, in round numbers, $2100,--five times as much as Polly's
glass house,--but I was not going to play in them.

I also built a cow-house on the same plan as the first one, but about half the size. This was
for the dry cows and the heifers. It cost $2230, and gave me stable room enough for the waiting
stock, so that I could count on forty milch cows all the time, when my herd was once balanced.
Forty cows giving milk, six hundred swine of all ages, putting on fat or doing whatever other
duty came to hand, fifteen or sixteen hundred hens laying eggs when not otherwise engaged,
three thousand apple trees striving with all their might to get large enough to bear fruit,--these
made up my ideal of a factory farm; and it looked as if one year more would see it complete.

No rain fell in October, and my brook became such a little brook that I dared to correct its
ways. We spent a week with teams, ploughs, and scrapers, cutting the fringe and frills away
from it, and reducing it to severe simplicity. It is strange, but true, that this reversion
to simplicity robbed it of its shy ways and rustic beauty, and left it boldly staring with
open eyes and gaping with wide-stretched mouth at the men who turned from it. We put in about
two thousand feet of tile drainage on both sides of what Polly called "that ditch," and this
completed the improvements on the low lands. The land, indeed, was not too low to bear good
crops, but it was lightened by under drainage and yielded more each after year.

The tiles cost me five cents per foot, or $100 for the whole. The work was done by my own men.

CHAPTER L

THE HEADMAN GENERALIZES

Jackson's prophecy came true. The old lady died, and before the ground was fairly settled around
her the improvident son accepted a cash offer of $75 per acre for his homestead, and the farm
was added to mine. This was in November. I at once spent $640 for 2-1/2 miles of fencing to
enclose it in one field, charging the farm account with $12,640 for the land and fence.

This transaction was a bargain, from my point of view; and it was a good sale, from the standpoint
of the other man, for he put $12,000 away at five per cent interest, and felt that he need
never do a stroke of work again. A lazy man is easily satisfied.

In December I sold 283 hogs. It was a choice lot, as much alike as peas in a pod, and gave
an average weight of 276 pounds; but the market was exceedingly low. I received the highest
quotation for the month, $3.60 per hundred, and the lot netted $2702.

It seems hard luck to be obliged to sell fine swine at such a price, and a good many farmers
would hold their stock in the hope of a rise; but I do not think this prudent. When a pig is
250 days old, if he has been pushed, he has reached his greatest profit-growth; and he should
be sold, even though the market be low. If one could be certain that within a reasonable time,
say thirty days, there would be a marked advance, it might do to hold; but no one can be sure
of this, and it doesn't usually pay to wait. Market the product when at its best, is the rule
at Four Oaks. The young hog is undoubtedly at his best from eight to nine months old. He has
made a maximum growth on minimum feed, and from that time on he will eat more and give smaller
proportionate returns. There is danger, too, that he will grow stale; for he has been subjected
to a forcing system which contemplated a definite time limit and which cannot extend much beyond
that limit without risks. Force your swine not longer than nine months and sell for what you
can get, and you will make more money in the long run than by trying to catch a high market.
I sold in December something more than four hundred cockerels, which brought $215. The apples
from the old trees were good that year, but not so abundant as the year before, and they brought
$337,--$2.25 per tree. The hens laid few eggs in October and November, though they resumed
work in December; but the pullets did themselves proud. Sam said he gathered from fourteen
to twenty eggs a day from each pen of forty, which is better than forty per cent. We sold nearly
eighteen hundred dozen eggs during this quarter, for $553. The butter account showed nearly
twenty-eight hundred pounds sold, which brought $894, and the sale of eleven calves brought
$180. These sales closed the credit side of our ledger for the year.

Apples               $337.00
Calves                130.00
Cockerels             215.00
1785 doz. eggs        553.00
2790 lb. butter       894.00
283 hogs             2702.00
                    --------
    Total           $4831.00

In making up the expense account of that year and the previous one, I found that I should be
able in future to say with a good deal of exactness what the gross amount would be, without
much figuring. The interest account would steadily decrease, I hoped, while the wage account
would increase as steadily until it approached $5500; that year it was $4662. Each man who
had been on the farm more than six months received $18 more that year than he did the year
before, and this increase would continue until the maximum wage of $40 a month was reached;
but while some would stay long enough to earn the maximum, others would drop out, and new men
would begin work at $20 a month. I felt safe, therefore, in fixing $5500 as the maximum wage
limit of any year. Time has proven the correctness of this estimate, for $5372 is the most
I have paid for wages during the seven years since this experiment was inaugurated.

The food purchased for cows, hogs, and hens may also be definitely estimated. It costs about
$30 a year for each cow, $1 for each hog, and thirty cents for each hen. Everything else comes
from the land, and is covered by such fixed charges as interest, wages, taxes, insurance, repairs,
and replenishments. The food for the colony at Four Oaks, usually bought at wholesale, doesn't
cost more than $5 a month per capita. This seems small to a man who is in the habit of paying
cash for everything that enters his doors; but it amply provides for comforts and even for
luxuries, not only for the household, but also for the stranger within the gates. In the city,
where water and ice cost money and the daily purchase of food is taxed by three or four middlemen,
one cannot realize the factory farmer's independence of tradesmen. I do not mean that this
sum will furnish terrapin and champagne, but I do not understand that terrapin and champagne
are necessary to comfort, health, or happiness.

Let us look for a moment at some of the things which the factory farmer does not buy, and perhaps
we shall see that a comfortable existence need not demand much more. His cows give him milk,
cream, butter, and veal; his swine give roast pig, fresh pork, salt pork, ham, bacon, sausages,
and lard; his hens give eggs and poultry; his fields yield hulled corn, samp, and corn meal;
his orchards give apples, pears, peaches, quinces, plums, and cherries; his bushes give currants,
gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries; his vines give grapes; his forests give
hickory nuts, butternuts, and hazel nuts; and, best of all, his garden gives more than twenty
varieties of toothsome and wholesome vegetables in profusion. The whole fruit and vegetable
product of the temperate zone is at his door, and he has but to put forth his hand and take
it. The skilled housewife makes wonderful provision against winter from the opulence of summer,
and her storehouse is crowded with innumerable glass cells rich in the spoils of orchard and
garden. There is scant use for the grocer and the butcher under such conditions. I am so well
convinced that my estimate of $5 a month is liberal that I have taxed the account with all
the salt used on the farm.

CHAPTER LI

THE GRAND-GIRLS

The click of Jane's hammer began to be heard in November, and hardly a day passed without some
music from this "Forge in the Forest." Sir Tom made a permanent station of the workshop, where
he spent hours in a comfortable chair, drawing nourishment from the head of his cane and pleasure
from watching the girl at the anvil. I suspect that he planted himself in the corner of the
forge to safeguard Jane; for he had an abiding fear that she would take fire, and he wished
to be near at hand to put her out. He procured a small Babcock extinguisher and a half-dozen
hand-grenades, and with these instruments he constituted himself a very efficient volunteer
fire department. He made her promise, also, that she would have definite hours for heavy work,
that he might be on watch; and so fond was she of his company, or rather of his presence, for
he talked but little, that she kept close to the schedule.

Laura had a favorite corner in the forge, where she often turned a hem or a couplet. She was
equally dexterous at either; and Sir Tom watched her, too, with an admiring eye. I once heard
him say:--

"Milady Laura, it is the regret of me life that I came into the world a generation too soon."

Laura sometimes went away--she called it "going home," but we scoffed the term--and the doldrums
blew until she returned. Sir Tom dined with us nearly every evening through the fall and early
winter; and when he, and Kate and Tom and the grand-girls, and the Kyrles, and Laura were at
Four Oaks, there was little to be desired. The grand-girls were nearly five and seven now,
and they were a great help to the Headman. My terrier was no closer to my heels from morning
to night than were these youngsters. They took to country life like the young animals they
were, and made friends with all, from Thompson down. They must needs watch the sheep as they
walked their endless way on the treadmill night and morning; they thrust their hands into hundreds
of nests and placed the spoils in Sam's big baskets; they watched the calves at their patent
feeders, which deceived the calves, but not the girls; they climbed into the grain bins and
tobogganed on the corn; they haunted the cow-barn at milking time and wondered much; but the
chiefest of their delights was the beautiful white pig which Anderson gave them. A little movable
pen was provided for this favorite, and the youngsters fed it several times a day with warm
milk from a nursing-bottle, like any other motherless child. The pig loved its foster-mothers,
and squealed for them most of the time when it was not eating or sleeping; fortunately, a pig
can do much of both. It grew playful and intelligent, and took on strange little human ways
which made one wonder if Darwin were right in his conclusion that we are all ascended from
the ape. I have seen features and traits of character so distinctly piggish as to rouse my
suspicions that the genealogical line is not free from a cross of sus scrofa. The pig grew
in stature and in wisdom, but not in grace, from day to day, until it threatened to dominate
the place. However, it was lost during the absence of its friends,--to be replaced by a younger
one at the next visit.

"Do your pigs get lost when you are away?" asked No. 1.

"Not often, dear."

"It's only pet pigs that runds away," said No. 2, "and I don't care, for it rooted me."

The pet pig is still a favorite with the grand-girls, but it always runs away in the fall.

Kate loved to come to Four Oaks, and she spent so much time there that she often said:--

"We have no right to that $1200; we spend four times as much time here as you all do in town."

"That's all right daughter, but I wish you would spend twice as much time here as you do, and
I also wish that the $1200 were twice as much as it is."

Time was running so smoothly with us that we "knocked on wood" each morning for fear our luck
would break.

The cottage which had once served as a temporary granary, and which had been moved to the building
line two years before, was now turned into an overflow house against the time when Jack should
come home for the winter vacation. Polly had decided to have "just as many as we can hold,
and some more," and as the heaviest duties fell upon her, the rest of us could hardly find
fault. The partitions were torn out of the cottage, and it was opened up into one room, except
for the kitchen, which was turned into a bath-room. Six single iron beds were put up, and the
place was made comfortable by an old-fashioned, air-tight, sheet-iron stove with a great hole
in the top through which big chunks and knots of wood were fed. This stove would keep fire
all night, and, while not up to latter-day demands, it was quite satisfactory to the warm-blooded
boys who used it. The expense of overhauling the cottage was $214. Tom, Kate, and the grand-girls
were to be with us, of course, and so were the Kyrles, Sir Tom, Jessie Gordon, Florence, Madeline,
and Alice Chase. Jack was to bring Jarvis and two other men besides Frank and Phil of last
year's party.

The six boys were bestowed in the cottage, where they made merry without seriously interrupting
sleep in the main house. The others found comfortable quarters under our roof, except Sir Tom,
who would go home some time in the night, to return before lunch the next day.

With such a houseful of people, the cook was worked to the bone; but she gloried in it, and
cackled harder than ever. I believe she gave warning twice during those ten days; but Polly
has a way with her which Mary cannot resist. I do not think we could have driven that cook
out of the house with a club when there was such an opportunity for her to distinguish herself.
Her warnings were simply matters of habit.

The holidays were filled with such things as a congenial country house-party can furnish--the
wholesomest, jolliest things in the world; and the end, when it came, was regretted by all.
I grew to feel a little bit jealous of Jarvis's attentions to Jane, for they looked serious,
and she was not made unhappy by them. Jarvis was all that was honest and manly, but I could
not think of giving up Jane, even to the best of fellows. I wanted her for my old age. I suspect
that a loving father can dig deeper into the mud of selfishness than any other man, and yet
feel all the time that he is doing God service. It is in accord with nature that a daughter
should take the bit in her teeth and bolt away from this restraining selfishness, but the man
who is left by the roadside cannot always see it in that light.

CHAPTER LII

THE THIRD BECKONING

On the afternoon of December 31 I called a meeting of the committee of ways and means, and
Polly and I locked ourselves in my office. It was then two and a half years since we commenced
the experiment of building a factory farm, which was to supply us with comforts, luxuries,
and pleasures of life, and yet be self-supporting: a continuous experiment in economics.

The building of the factory was practically completed, though not all of its machinery had
yet been installed. We had spent our money freely,--too freely, perhaps; and we were now ready
to watch the returns. Polly said:--

"There are some things we are sure of: we like the country, and it likes us. I have spent the
happiest year of my life here. We've entertained more friends than ever before, and they've
been better entertained, so that we are all right from the social standpoint. You are stronger
and better than ever before, and so am I. Credit the farm with these things, Mr. Headman, and
you'll find that it doesn't owe us such an awful amount after all."

"Are these things worth $100,000?"

"Now, John, you don't mean that you've spent $100,000! What in the world have you done with
it? Just pigs and cows and chickens--"

"And greenhouses and sunken gardens and pergolas and kickshaws," said I. "But seriously, Polly,
I think that we can show value for all that we have spent; and the whole amount is not three
times what our city house cost, and that only covered our heads."

"How do you figure values here?"

"We get a great deal more than simply shelter out of this place, and we have tangible values,
too. Here are some of them: 480 acres of excellent land, so well groomed and planted that it
is worth of any man's money, $120 per acre, or $57,600; buildings, water-plant, etc., all as
good as new, $40,000; 44 cows, $4400; 10 heifers nearly two years old, $500; 8 horses, $1200;
50 brood sows, $1000; 350 young pigs, $1700; 1300 laying hens, $1300; tools and machinery,
$1500; that makes well over $100,000 in sight, besides all the things you mentioned before."

"You haven't counted the six horses in my barn."

"They haven't been charged to the farm, Polly."

"Or the trees you've planted?"

"No, they go with the land to increase its value."

"And my gardens, too?"

"Yes, they are fixtures and count with the acres. You see, this, land didn't cost quite $75
an acre, but I hold it $50 better for what we've done to it; I don't believe Bill Jackson would
sell his for less. I offered him $10,000 for a hundred acres, and he refused. We've put up
the price of real estate in this neighborhood, Mrs. Williams."

"Well, let's get at the figures. I'm dying to see how we stand."

"I have summarized them here:--

"To additional land and development of plant  $20,353.00
To interest on previous investment              4,220.00
Wages                                           4,662.00
Food for twenty-five people                     1,523.00
Food for stock                                  2,120.00
Taxes and insurance                               207.00
Shoeing and repairs                               309.00
                                              ----------
      "Making in all                          $33,394.00

spent this year.

"The receipts are:--

"First quarter                                 $1,297.00
Second quarter                                  1,706.00
Third quarter                                   3,284.00
Fourth quarter                                  4,831.00
                                               ---------
        "Making                               $11,118.00

"But we agreed to pay $4000 a year to the farm for our food and shelter, if it did as well
by us as the town house did. Shall we do it, Polly?"

"Why, of course; we've been no end more comfortable here."

"Well, if we don't expect to get something for nothing, I think we ought to add it. Adding
$4000 will make the returns from the farm $15,118, leaving $18,276 to add to the interest-bearing
debt. Last year this debt was $84,404. Add this year's deficit, and we have $102,680. A good
deal of money, Polly, but I showed you well over $100,000 in assets,--at our own price, to
be sure, but not far wrong."

"Will you ever have to increase the debt?"

"I think not. I believe we shall reduce it a little next year, and each year thereafter. But,
supposing it only pays expenses, how can you put on as much style on the interest of $100,000
anywhere else as you can here? It can't be done. When the fruit comes in and this factory is
running full time, it will earn well on toward $25,000 a year, and it will not cost over $14,000
to run it, interest and all. It won't take long at that rate to wipe out the interest-bearing
debt. You'll be rich, Polly, before you're ten years older."

"You are rich now, in imagination and expectation, Mr. Headman, but I'll bank with you for
a while longer. But what's the use of charging the farm with interest when you credit it with
our keeping?"

"There isn't much reason in that, Polly. It's about as broad as it is long. I simply like to
keep books in that way. We charge the farm with a little more than $4000 interest, and we credit
it with just $4000 for our food and shelter. We'll keep on in this way because I like it."

CHAPTER LIII

THE MILK MACHINE

In opening the year 1898 I was faced by a larger business proposition than I had originally
planned. When I undertook the experiment of a factory farm, I placed the limit of capital to
be invested at about $60,000. Now I found that I had exceeded that amount by a good many thousand
dollars, and I knew that the end was not yet. The factory was not complete, and it would be
several years before it would be at its best in output. While it had cost me more than was
originally contemplated, and while there was yet more money to be spent, there was still no
reason for discouragement. Indeed, I felt so certain of ultimate profits that I was ready to
put as much into it as could possibly be used to advantage.

The original plan was for a soiling farm on which I could milk thirty cows, fatten two hundred
hogs, feed a thousand hens, and wait for thirty-five hundred fruit trees to come to a profitable
age. With this in view, I set apart forty acres of high, dry land, for the feeding-grounds,
twenty acres of which was devoted to the cows; and I now found that this twenty-acre lot would
provide an ample exercise field for twice that number. It was in grass (timothy, red-top, and
blue grass), and the cows nibbled persistently during the short hours each day when they were
permitted to be on it; but it was never reckoned as part of their ration. The sod was kept
in good condition and the field free from weeds, by the use of the mowing-machine, set high,
every ten or twenty days, according to the season. Following the mower, we use a spring-tooth
rake which bunched the weeds and gathered or broke up the droppings; and everything the rake
caught was carted to the manure vats. Our big Holsteins do not suffer from close quarters,
so far as I am able to judge, neither do they take on fat. From thirty minutes to three hours
(depending on the weather), is all the outing they get each day; but this seems sufficient
for their needs. The well-ventilated stable with its moderate temperature suits the sedentary
nature of these milk machines, and I am satisfied with the results. I cannot, of course, speak
with authority of the comparative merits of soiling versus grazing, for I have had no experience
in the latter; but in theory soiling appeals to me, and in practice it satisfies me.

When I found I could keep more cows on the land set apart for them, I built another cow stable
for the dry cows and the heifers, and added four stalls to my milk stable by turning each of
the hospital wards into two stalls.

The ten heifers which I reserved in the spring of 1896 were now nearly two years old. They
were expected to "come in" in the early autumn, when they would supplement the older herd.
The cows purchased in 1895 were now five years old, and quite equal to the large demand which
we made upon them. They had grown to be enormous creatures, from thirteen hundred to fourteen
hundred pounds in weight, and they were proving their excellence as milk producers by yielding
an average of forty pounds a day. We had, and still have, one remarkable milker, who thinks
nothing of yielding seventy pounds when fresh, and who doesn't fall below twenty-five pounds
when we are forced to dry her off. I have no doubt that she would be a successful candidate
for advanced registration if we put her to the test. For ten months in each year these cows
give such quantities of milk as would surprise a man not acquainted with this noble Dutch family.
My five common cows were good of their kind, but they were not in the class with the Holsteins.
They were not "robber" cows, for they fully earned their food; but there was no great profit
in them. To be sure, they did not eat more than two-thirds as much as the Holsteins; but that
fact did not stand to their credit, for the basic principle of factory farming is to consume
as much raw material as possible and to turn out its equivalent in finished product. The common
cows consumed only two-thirds as much raw material as the Holsteins, and turned out rather
less than two-thirds of their product, while they occupied an equal amount of floor space;
consequently they had to give place to more competent machines. They were to be sold during
the season.

Why dairymen can be found who will pay $50 apiece for cows like those I had for sale (better,
indeed, than the average), is beyond my method of reckoning values. Twice $50 will buy a young
cow bred for milk, and she would prove both bread and milk to the purchaser in most cases.
The question of food should settle itself for the dairyman as it does for the factory farmer.
The more food consumed, the better for each, if the ratio of milk be the same.

My Holsteins are great feeders; more than 2 tons of grain, 2-1/2 tons of hay, and 4 or 5 tons
of corn fodder, in addition to a ton of roots or succulent vegetables, pass through their great
mouths each year. The hay is nearly equally divided between timothy, oat hay, and alfalfa;
and when I began to figure the gross amount that would be required for my 50 Holstein gourmands,
I saw that the widow's farm had been purchased none too quickly. To provide 100 tons of grain,
125 tons of hay, and 200 or 300 tons of corn fodder for the cows alone, was no slight matter;
but I felt prepared to furnish this amount of raw material to be transmuted into golden butter.
The Four Oaks butter had made a good reputation, and the four oak leaves stamped on each mould
was a sufficient guarantee of excellence. My city grocer urged a larger product, and I felt
safe in promising it; at the same time, I held him up for a slight advance in price. Heretofore
it had netted me 32 cents a pound, but from January 1, 1898, I was to have 33-1/3 cents for
each pound delivered at the station at Exeter, I agreeing to furnish at least 50 pounds a day,
six days in a week.

This was not always easily done during the first eight months of that year, and I will confess
to buying 640 pounds to eke out the supply for the colony; but after the young heifers came
in, there was no trouble, and the purchased butter was more than made up to our local grocer.

It will be more satisfactory to deal with dairy matters in lump sums from now on. The contract
with the city grocer still holds, and, though he often urges me to increase my herd, I still
limit the supply to 300 pounds a week,--sometimes a little more, but rarely less. I believe
that 38 to 44 cows in full flow of milk will make the best balance in my factory; and a well-balanced
factory is what I am after.

I am told that animals are not machines, and that they cannot be run as such. My animals are;
and I run them as I would a shop. There is no sentiment in my management. If a cow or a hog
or a hen doesn't work in a satisfactory way, it ceases to occupy space in my shop, just as
would an imperfect wheel. The utmost kindness is shown to all animals at Four Oaks. This rule
is the most imperative one on the place, and the one in which no "extenuating circumstances"
are taken into account. There are two equal reasons for this: the first is a deep-rooted aversion
to cruelty in all forms; and the second is, it pays. But kindness to animals doesn't imply
the necessity of keeping useless ones or those whose usefulness is below one's standard. If
a man will use the intelligence and attention to detail in the management of stock that is
necessary to the successful running of a complicated machine, he will find that his stock doesn't
differ greatly from his machine. The trouble with most farmers is that they think the living
machine can be neglected with impunity, because it will not immediately destroy itself or others,
and because it is capable of a certain amount of self-maintenance; while the dead machine has
no power of self-support, and must receive careful and punctual attention to prevent injury
to itself and to other property. If a dairyman will feed his cows as a thresher feeds the cylinder
of his threshing-machine, he will find that the milk will flow from the one about as steadily
as the grain falls from the other.

Intensive factory farming means the use of the best machines pushed to the limit of their capacity
through the period of their greatest usefulness, and then replaced by others. Pushing to the
limit of capacity is in no sense cruelty. It is predicated on the perfect health of the animal,
for without perfect condition, neither machine nor animal can do its best work. It is simply
encouraging to a high degree the special function for which generations of careful breeding
have fitted the animal.

That there is gratification in giving milk, no well-bred cow or mother will deny. It is a joyous
function to eat large quantities of pleasant food and turn it into milk. Heredity impels the
cow to do this, and it would take generations of wild life to wean her from it. As well say
that the cataleptic trance of the pointer, when the game bird lies close and the delicate scent
fills his nostrils, is not a joy to him, or that the Dalmatian at the heels of his horse, or
the foxhound when Reynard's trail is warm, receive no pleasure from their specialties.

Do these animals feel no joy in the performance of service which is bred into their bones and
which it is unnatural or freakish for them to lack? No one who has watched the "bred-for-milk"
cow can doubt that the joys of her life are eating, drinking, sleeping, and giving milk. Pushing
her to the limit of her capacity is only intensifying her life, though, possibly, it may shorten
it by a year or two. While she lives she knows all the happiness of cow life, and knows it
to the full. What more can she ask? She would starve on the buffalo grass which supports her
half-wild sister, "northers" would freeze her, and the snow would bury her. She is a product
of high cow-civilization, and as such she must have the intelligent care of man or she cannot
do her best. With this care she is a marvellous machine for the making of the only article
of food which in itself is competent to support life in man. If my Holsteins are not machines,
they resemble them so closely that I will not quarrel with the name.

What is true of the cow, is true also of the pork-making machine that we call the hog. His
wild and savage progenitor is lost, and we have in his place a sluggish animal that is a very
model as a food producer. His three pleasures are eating, sleeping, and growing fat. He follows
these pleasures with such persistence that 250 days are enough to perfect him. It can certainly
be no hardship to a pig to encourage him in a life of sloth and gluttony which appeals to his
taste and to my profit.

Custom and interest make his life ephemeral; I make it comfortable. From the day of his birth
until we separate, I take watchful care of him. During infancy he is protected from cold and
wet, and his mother is coddled by the most nourishing foods, that she may not fail in her duty
to him. During childhood he is provided with a warm house, a clean bed, and a yard in which
to disport himself, and is fed for growth and bone on skim-milk, oatmeal, and sweet alfalfa.
During his youth, corn meal is liberally added to his diet, also other dainties which he enjoys
and makes much of; and during his whole life he has access to clean water, and to the only
medicine which a pig needs,--a mixture of ashes, charcoal, salt, and sulphur.

When he has spent 250 happy days with me, we part company with feelings of mutual respect,--he
to finish his mission, I to provide for his successor.

My early plan was to turn off 200 of this finished product each year, but I soon found that
I could do much better. One can raise a crop of hogs nearly as quickly as a crop of corn, and
with much more profit, if the food be at hand. There was likely to be an abundance of food.
I was more willing to sell it in pig skins than in any other packages. My plan was now to turn
off, not 200 hogs each year, but 600 or more. I had 60 well-bred sows, young and old, and I
could count on them to farrow at least three times in two years. The litters ought to average
7 each, say 22 pigs in two years; 60 times 22 are 1320, and half of 1320 is 660. Yes, at that
rate, I could count on about 600 finished hogs to sell each year. But if my calculations were
too high, I could easily keep 10 more brood sows, for I had sufficient room to keep them healthy.

The two five-acre lots, Nos. 3 and 5, had been given over to the brood sows when they were
not caring for young litters in the brood-house. Comfortable shelters and a cemented basin
twelve feet by twelve, and one foot deep, had been built in each lot. The water-pipe that ran
through the chicken lot (No. 4) connected with these basins, as did also a drain-pipe to the
drain in the north lane, so that it was easy to turn on fresh water and to draw off that which
was soiled. Through this device my brood sows had access to a water bath eight inches deep,
whenever they were in the fields. My hogs, young or old, have never been permitted to wallow
in mud. We have no mud-holes at Four Oaks to grow stale and breed disease. The breeding hogs
have exercise lots and baths, but the young growing and fattening stock have neither. They
are kept in runs twenty feet by one hundred, in bunches of from twenty to forty, according
to age, from the time they are weaned until they leave the place for good. This plan, which
I did not intend to change, opened a question in my mind that gave me pause. It was this: Can
I hope, even with the utmost care, to keep the house for growing and fattening swine free from
disease if I keep it constantly full of swine?

The more I thought about it the less probable it appeared. The pig-house had cost me $4320.
Another would cost as much, if not more, and I did not like to go to the expense unless it
were necessary. I worked over this problem for several days, and finally came to the conclusion
that I should never feel easy about my swine until I had two houses for them, besides the brood-house
for the sows. I therefore gave the order to Nelson to build another swine-house as soon as
spring opened. My plan was, and I carried it out, to move all the colonies every three months,
and to have the vacant house thoroughly cleaned, sprayed with a powerful germicide, and whitewashed.
The runs were to be turned over, when the weather would permit, and the ground sown to oats or rye.

The new house was finished in June, and the pigs were moved into it on July 1st with a lease
of three months. My mind has been easy on the question of the health of my hogs ever since;
and with reason, for there has been no epizoötic or other serious form of disease in my piggery,
in spite of the fact that there are often more than 1200 pigs of all degrees crowded into this
five-acre lot. The two pig-houses and the brood-house, with their runs, cover the whole of
the lot, except the broad street of sixty feet just inside my high quarantine fence, which
encloses the whole of it.

CHAPTER LIV

BACON AND EGGS

Each hog turned out from my piggery weighing 270 pounds or more, has eaten of my substance
not less than 500 pounds of grain, 250 pounds of chopped alfalfa, 250 pounds of roots or vegetables,
and such quantities of skimmed milk and swill as have fallen to his share. I could reckon the
approximate cost of these foods, but I will not do so. All but the middlings and oil meal come
from the farm and are paid for by certain fixed charges heretofore mentioned. The middlings
and oil meal are charged in the "food for animals" account at the rate of $1 a year for each
finished hog.

The truth is that a large part of the food which enters into the making of each 300 pounds
of live pork, is of slow sale, and that for some of it there is no sale at all,--for instance,
house swill, dish-water, butter-washings, garden weeds, lawn clippings, and all sorts of coarse
vegetables. A hog makes half his growth out of refuse which has no value, or not sufficient
to warrant the effort and expense of selling it. He has unequalled facilities for turning non-negotiable
scrip into convertible bonds, and he is the greatest moneymaker on the farm. If the grain ration
were all corn, and if there were a roadside market for it at 35 cents a bushel, it would cost
$3.12; the alfalfa would be worth $1.45, and the vegetables probably 65 cents, under like conditions,
making a total of $5.22 as a possible gross value of the food which the hog has eaten. The
gross value of these things, however, is far above their net value when one considers time
and expense of sale. The hog saves all this trouble by tucking under his skin slow-selling
remnants of farm products and making of them finished assets which can be turned into cash
at a day's notice.

To feed the hogs on the scale now planned, I had to provide for something like 7000 bushels
of grain, chiefly corn and oats, 100 tons of alfalfa, and an equal amount of vegetables, chiefly
sugar beets and mangel-wurzel. Certainly the widow's land would be needed.

The poultry had also outgrown my original plans, and I had built with reference to my larger
views. There were five houses on the poultry lot, each 200 feet long, and each divided into
ten equal pens. Four of these houses were for the laying hens, which were divided into flocks
of 40 each; while the other house was for the growing chickens and for cockerels being fattened
for market.

There were now on hand more than 1300 pullets and hens, and I instructed Sam to run his incubator
overtime that season, so as to fill our houses by autumn. I should need 800 or 900 pullets
to make our quota good, for most of the older hens would have to be disposed of in the autumn,--all
but about 200, which would be kept until the following spring to breed from.

I believe that a three-year-old hen that has shown the egg habit is the best fowl to breed
from, and it is the custom at Four Oaks to reserve specially good pens for this purpose. The
egg habit is unquestionably as much a matter of heredity as the milk or the fat producing habit,
and should be as carefully cultivated. With this end in view, Sam added young cockerels to
four of his best-producing flocks on January 1, and by the 15th he was able to start his incubators.

Breeding and feeding for eggs is on the same principle as feeding and breeding for milk. It
is no more natural for a hen to lay eggs for human consumption than it is for the robin to
do so, or for the cow to give more milk than is sufficient for her calf. Man's necessity has
made demands upon both cow and hen, and man's intelligence has converted individualists into
socialists in both of these races. They no longer live for themselves alone. As the cow, under
favorable conditions, finds pleasure in giving milk, so does the hen under like conditions
take delight in giving eggs,--else why the joyous cackle when leaving her nest after doing
her full duty? She gloats over it, and glories in it, and announces her satisfaction to the
whole yard. It is something to be proud of, and the cackling hen knows it better than you or
I. It can be no hardship to push this egg machine to the limit of its capacity. It adds new
zest to the life of the hen, and multiplies her opportunities for well-earned self-congratulation.

Our hens are fed for eggs, and we get what we feed for. I said of my hens that I would not
ask them to lay more than eight dozen eggs each year, and I will stick to what I said. But
I do not reject voluntary contributions beyond this number. Indeed, I accept them with thanks,
and give Biddy a word of commendation for her gratuity. Eight dozen eggs a year will pay a
good profit, but if each of my hens wishes to present me with two dozen more, I slip 62 cents
into my pocket and say, "I am very much obliged to you, miss," or madam, as the case may be.
Most of my hens do remember me in this substantial way, and the White Wyandottes are in great
favor with the Headman.

The houses in which my hens live are almost as clean as the one I inhabit (and Polly is tidy
to a degree); their food is as carefully prepared as mine, and more punctually served; their
enemies are fended off, and they are never frightened by dogs or other animals, for the five-acre
lot on which their houses and runs are built is enclosed by a substantial fence that prevents
any interloping; book agents never disturb their siestas, nor do tree men make their lives
hideous with lithographs of impossible fruit on improbable trees. Whether I am indebted to
one or to all of these conditions for my full egg baskets, I am unable to say; but I do not
purpose to make any change, for my egg baskets are as full as a reasonable man could wish.
As nearly as I can estimate, my hens give thirty per cent egg returns as a yearly average--about
120 eggs for each hen in 365 days. This is more than I ask of them, but I do not refuse their
generosity.

Every egg is worth, in my market, 2-1/2 cents, which means that the yearly product of each
hen could be sold for $3. Something more than two thousand dozen are consumed by the home colony
or the incubators; the rest find their way to the city in clean cartons of one dozen each,
with a stencil of Four Oaks and a guarantee that they are not twenty-four hours old when they
reach the middleman.

In return for this $3 a year, what do I give my hens besides a clean house and yard? A constant
supply of fresh water, sharp grits, oyster shells, and a bath of road dust and sifted ashes,
to which is added a pinch of insect powder. Twice each day five pounds of fresh skim-milk is
given to each flock of forty. In the morning they have a warm mash composed of (for 1600 hens)
50 pounds of alfalfa hay cut fine and soaked all night in hot water, 50 pounds of corn meal,
50 pounds of oat meal, 50 pounds of bran, and 20 pounds of either meat meal or cotton-seed
meal. At noon they get 100 pounds of mixed grains--wheat and buckwheat usually--with some green
vegetables to pick at; and at night 125 to 150 pounds of whole corn. There are variations of
this diet from time to time, but no radical change. I have read much of a balanced ration,
but I fancy a hen will balance her own ration if you give her the chance.

Milk is one of the most important items on this bill of fare, and all hens love it. It should
be fed entirely fresh, and the crocks or earthen dishes from which it is eaten should be thoroughly
cleansed each day. Four ounces for each hen is a good daily ration, and we divide this into
two feedings.

Our 1600 hens eat about 75 tons of grain a year. Add to this the 100 tons which 50 cows will
require, 200 tons for the swine, and 25 tons for the horses, and we have 400 tons of grain
to provide for the stock on the factory farm. Nearly a fourth of this, in the shape of bran,
gluten meal, oil meal, and meat meal, must be purchased, for we have no way of producing it.
For the other 300 tons we must look to the land or to a low market. Three hundred tons of mixed
grains means something like 13,000 bushels, and I cannot hope to raise this amount from my
land at present.

Fortunately the grain market was to my liking in January of 1898; and though there were still
more than 7000 bushels in my granary, I purchased 5000 bushels of corn and as much oats against
a higher market. The corn cost 27 cents a bushel and the oats 22, delivered at Exeter, the
10,000 bushels amounting to $2450, to be charged to the farm account.

I was now prepared to face the food problem, for I had more than 17,000 bushels of grain to
supplement the amount the farm would produce, and to tide me along until cheap grain should
come again, or until my land should produce enough for my needs. The supply in hand plus that
which I could reasonably expect to raise, would certainly provide for three years to come,
and this is farther than the average farmer looks into the future. But I claim to be more enterprising
than an average farmer, and determined to keep my eyes open and to take advantage of any favorable
opportunity to strengthen my position.

In the meantime it was necessary to force my trees, and to secure more help for the farm work.
To push fruit trees to the limit of healthy growth is practical and wise. They can accomplish
as much in growth and development in three years, when judiciously stimulated, as in five or
six years of the "lick-and-a-promise" kind of care which they usually receive.

A tree must be fed first for growth and afterward for fruit, just as a pig is managed, if one
wishes quick returns. To plant a tree and leave it to the tenderness of nature, with only occasional
attention, is to make the heart sick, for it is certain to prove a case of hope deferred. In
the fulness of time the tree and "happy-go-lucky" nature will prove themselves equal to the
development of fruit; but they will be slow in doing it. It is quite as well for the tree,
and greatly to the advantage of the horticulturist, to cut two or three years out of this unprofitable
time. All that is necessary to accomplish this is: to keep the ground loose for a space around
the tree somewhat larger than the spread of its branches; to apply fertilizers rich in nitrogen;
to keep the whole of the cultivated space mulched with good barn-yard manure, increasing the
thickness of the mulch with coarse stuff in the fall, so as to lengthen the season of root
activity; and to draw the mulch aside about St. Patrick's Day, that the sun's rays may warm
the earth as early as possible. Moderate pruning, nipping back of exuberant branches, and two
sprayings of the foliage with Bordeaux mixture, to keep fungus enemies in check, comprise all
the care required by the growing tree. This treatment will condense the ordinary growth of
five years into three, and the tree will be all the better for the forcing.

As soon as fruit spurs and buds begin to show themselves, the treatment should be modified,
but not remitted. Less nitrogen and more phosphoric acid and potash are to be used, and the
mulch should not be removed in the early spring. The objects now are, to stimulate the fruit
buds and to retard activity in the roots until the danger from late frosts is past. As a result
of this kind of treatment, many varieties of apple trees will give moderate crops when the
roots are seven, and the trunks are six years old. Fruit buds showed in abundance on many of
my trees in the fall of 1897, especially on the Duchess and the Yellow Transparent, and I looked
for a small apple harvest that year.

CHAPTER LV

THE OLD TIME FARM-HAND

With all my industries thus increasing, the necessity for more help became imperative. French
and Judson had their hands more than full in the dairy barns, and had to be helped out by Thompson.
Anderson could not give the swine all the attention they needed, and was assisted by Otto,
who proved an excellent swineherd. Sam had the aid of Lars's boys with the poultry, and very
efficient aid it was, considering the time they could give to it. They had to be off with the
market wagon at 7.40, and did not return from school until 4 P.M. Lars was busy in the carriage
barn; and though we spared him as much as possible from driving, he had to be helped out by
Johnson at such times as the latter could spare from his greenhouse and hotbeds. Zeb took care
of the farm teams; but the winter's work of distributing forage and grain, getting up wood
and ice, hauling manure, and so forth, had to be done in a desultory and irregular manner.
The spring work would find us wofully behindhand if I did not look sharp. I had been looking
sharp since January set in, and had experienced, for the first time, real difficulties in finding
anything like good help. Hitherto I had been especially fortunate in this regard. I had met
some reverses, but in the main good luck had followed me. I had nine good men who seemed contented
and who were all saving money,--an excellent sign of stability and contentment. Even Lars had
not fallen from grace but once, and that could hardly be charged against him, for Jack and
Jarvis had tempted him beyond resistance; while Sam's nose was quite blanched, and he was to
all appearances firmly seated on the water wagon. Really, I did not know what labor troubles
meant until 1898, but since then I have not had clear sailing.

From my previous experience with working-men, I had formed the opinion that they were reasoning
and reasonable human beings,--with peculiarities, of course; and that as a class they were
ready to give good service for fair wages and decent treatment. In early life I had been a
working-man myself, and I thought I could understand the feelings and sympathize with the trials
of the laborer from the standpoint of personal experience. I was sorely mistaken. The laboring
man of to-day is a different proposition from the man who did manual labor "before the war."
That he is more intelligent, more provident, happier, or better in any way, I sincerely doubt;
that he is restless, dissatisfied, and less efficient, I believe; that he is unreasonable in
his demands and regardless of the interests of his employer, I know. There are many shining
exceptions, and to these I look for the ultimate regeneration of labor; but the rule holds true.

I do not believe that the principles of life have changed in forty years. I do not believe
that an intelligent, able-bodied man need be a servant all his life, or that industry and economy
miss their rewards, or that there is any truth in the theory that men cannot rise out of the
rut in which they happen to find themselves. The trouble is with the man, not with the rut.
He spends his time in wallowing rather than in diligently searching for an outlet or in honestly
working his way up to it. Heredity and environment are heavy weights, but industry and sobriety
can carry off heavier ones. I have sympathy for weakness of body or mind, and patience for
those over whom inheritance has cast a baleful spell; but I have neither patience nor sympathy
for a strong man who rails at his condition and makes no determined effort to better it.

The time and money wasted in strikes, agitations, and arbitrations, if put to practical use,
would better the working-man enough faster than these futile efforts do. I have no quarrel
with unions or combinations of labor, so far as they have the true interests of labor for an
object; but I do quarrel with the spirit of mob rule and the evidences of conspicuous waste,
which have grown so rampant as to overshadow the helpful hand and to threaten, not the stability
of society--for in the background I see six million conservative sons of the soil who will
look to the stability of things when the time comes--but the unions themselves.

I remember my first summer on a farm. It lasted from the first day of April to the thirty-first
day of October, and on the evening of that day I carried to my father $28, the full wage for
seven months. I could not have spent one cent during that time, for I carried the whole sum
home; but I do not remember that I was conscious of any want. The hours on the farm were not
short; an eight-hour day would have been considered but a half-day. We worked from sun to sun,
and I grew and knew no sorrow or oppression. The next year I received the munificent wage of
$6 a month, and the following year, $8.

In after years, in brick-yards, sawmills, lumber woods, or harvest fields, there was no arbitrary
limit put upon the amount of work to be done. If I chose to do the work of a man and a half,
I got $1.50 for doing it, and it would have been a bold and sturdy delegate who tried to hold
me from it. I felt no need of help from outside. I was fit to care for myself, and I minded
not the long hours, the hard work, or the hard bed. This life was preliminary to a fuller one,
and it served its use. I know what tired legs and back mean, and I know that one need not have
them always if he will use the ordinary sense which God gives. Genius, or special cleverness,
is not necessary to get a man out of the rut of hard manual labor. Just plain, everyday sense
will do. But before I had secured the three men for whom I was in search, I began to feel that
this common sense of which we speak so glibly is a rare commodity under the working-man's hat.
I advertised, sent to agencies and intelligence offices, interviewed and inspected, consulted
friends and enemies, and so generally harrowed my life that I was fit to give up the whole
business and retire into a cave.

By actual count, I saw more than one hundred men, of all ages, sizes, and colors. Eight of
these were tried, of whom five were found wanting. Early in February I had settled upon three
sober men to add to our colony. As none of these lasted the year out, I may be forgiven for
not introducing them to the reader. They served their purpose, and mine too, and then drifted on.

CHAPTER LVI

THE SYNDICATE

I do not wish to take credit for things which gave me pleasure in the doing, or to appear altruistic
in my dealings with the people employed at Four Oaks. I tell of our business and other relations
because they are details of farm history and rightfully belong to these pages. If I dealt fairly
by my men and established relations of mutual confidence and dependence, it was not in the
hope that my ways might be approved and commended, but because it paid, in more ways than one.
I wanted my men to have a lively interest in the things which were of importance to me, that
their efforts might be intelligent and direct; and I was glad to enter into their schemes,
either for pleasure or for profit, with such aid as I could give. Cordial understanding between
employee and employer puts life into the contract, and disposes of perfunctory service, which
simply recognizes a definite deed for a definite compensation. Uninterested labor leaves a
load of hay in the field to be injured, just because the hour for quitting has come, while
interested labor hurries the hay into the barn to make it safe, knowing that the extra half-hour
will be made up to it in some other way.

It pays the farmer to take his help into a kind of partnership, not always in his farm, but
always in his consideration. That is why my farm-house was filled with papers and magazines
of interest to the men; that is why I spent many an evening with them talking over our industries;
that is why I purchased an organ for them when I found that Mrs. French, the dairymaid, could
play on it; that is why I talked economy to them and urged them to place some part of each
month's wage in the Exeter Savings Bank; and that is why, early in 1898, I formulated a plan
for investing their wages at a more profitable rate of interest. I asked each one to give me
a statement of his or her savings up to date. They were quite willing to do this, and I found
that the aggregate for the eight men and three women was $2530. Anderson, who saved most of
his wages, had an account in a city savings bank, and did not join us in our syndicate, though
he approved of it.

The money was made up of sums varying from $90, Lena's savings, to $460 owned by Judson, the
buggy man. My proposition was this: Pool the funds, buy Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific stock,
and hold it for one or two years. The interest would be twice as much as they were getting
from the bank, while the prospect of a decided advance was good. I said to them:--

"I have owned Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific stock for more than three years. I commenced
to buy at fifty-seven, and I am still buying, when I can get hold of a little money that doesn't
have to go into this blessed farm. It is now eighty-one, and it will go higher. I am so sure
of this that I will agree to take the stock from each or all of you at the price you pay for
it at any time during the next two years. There is no risk in this proposition to you, and
there may be a very handsome return."

They were pleased with the plan, and we formed a pool to buy thirty shares of stock. Thompson
and I were trustees, and the certificate stood in our names; but each contributor received
a pro-rata interest; Lena, one thirtieth; Judson, five-thirtieths; and the others between these
extremes. The stock was bought at eighty-two. I may as well explain now how it came out, for
I am not proud of my acumen at the finish. A little more than a year later the stock reached
122, and I advised the syndicate to sell. They were all pleased at the time with the handsome
profit they had made, but I suspect they have often figured what they might have made "if the
boss hadn't been such a chump," for we have seen the stock go above two hundred.

This was not the only enterprise in which our colony took a small share. The people at Four
Oaks are now content to hold shares in one of the great trusts, which they bought several points
below par, and which pay 1¾. per cent every three months. Even Lena, who held only one share
of the C., R.I., & P. five years ago, has so increased her income-bearing property that she
is now looked upon as a "catch" by her acquaintances. If I am correctly informed, she has an
annual income of $105, independent of her wages.

CHAPTER LVII

THE DEATH OF SIR TOM

At 7.30 on the morning of March 16, Dr. High telephoned me that Sir Thomas O'Hara was seriously
ill, and asked me to come at once. It took but a few minutes to have Jerry at the door, and,
breasting a cold, thin rain at a sharp gallop, I was at my friend's door before the clock struck
eight. Dr. High met me with a heavy face.

"Sir Tom is bad," said he, "with double pneumonia, and I am awfully afraid it will go hard
with him."

I remembered that my friend's pale face had looked a shade paler than usual the evening before,
and that there had been a pinched expression around the nose and mouth, as if from pain; but
Sir Tom had many twinges from his old enemy, gout, which he did not care to discuss, and I
took little note of his lack of fitness. He touched the brandy bottle a little oftener than
usual, and left for home earlier; but his voice was as cheery as ever, and we thought only
of gout. He was taken with a hard chill on his way home, which lasted for some time after he
was put to bed; but he would not listen to the requests of William and the faithful cook that
the doctor be summoned. At last he fell into a heavy sleep from which it was hard to rouse
him, and the servants followed their own desire and called Dr. High. He came as promptly as
possible, and did all that could be done for the sick man.

A hurried examination convinced me that Dr. High's opinion of the gravity of the case was correct,
and we telephoned at once for a specialist from the city, and for a trained nurse. After a
short consultation with Dr. High I reëntered my friend's room, and I fear that my face gave
me away, for Sir Tom said:--

"Be a man, Williams, and tell the whole of it."

"My dear old man, this is a tough proposition, but you must buck up and make a game fight.
We have sent for Dr. Jones and a nurse, and we will pull you through, sure."

"You will try, for sure, but I reckon the call has come for me to cash in me checks. When that
little devil Frost hit me right and left in me chest last night, I could see me finish; and
I heard the banshee in me sleep, and that means much to a Sligo man."

"Not to this Sligo man, I hope," said I, though I knew that we were in deep waters.

The wise man and the nurse came out on the 10.30 train, the nurse bringing comfort and aid,
but the physician neither. After thoroughly examining the patient, he simply confirmed our fears.

"Serious disease to overcome, and only scant vital forces; no reasonable ground for hope."

Sir Tom gave me a smile as I entered the room after parting from the specialist.

"I've discounted the verdict," said he, "and the foreman needn't draw such a long face. I've
had my fling, like a true Irishman, and I'm ready to pay the bill. I won't have to come back
for anything, Williams; there's nothing due me; but I must look sharp for William and the old
girl in the kitchen,--faithful souls,--for they will be strangers in a strange land. Will you
send for a lawyer?"

The lawyer came, and a codicil to Sir Thomas's will made the servants comfortable for life.
All that day and the following night we hung around the sick bed, hoping for the favorable
change that never came. On the morning of the 17th it was evident that he would not live to
see the sun go down. We had kept all friends away from the sick chamber; but now, at his request,
Polly, Jane, and Laura were summoned, and they came, with blanched faces and tearful eyes,
to kiss the brow and hold the hands of this dear man. He smiled with contentment on the group,
and said:--

"Me friends have made such a heaven of this earth that perhaps I have had me full share."

"Sir Tom," said I, "shall I send for a priest?"

"A priest! What could I do with a priest? Me forebears were on the Orange side of Boyne Water,
and we have never changed color."

"Would you like to see a clergyman?"

"No, no; just the grip of a friend's hand and these angels around me. Asking pardon is not
me long suit, Williams, but perhaps the time has come for me to play it. If the good God will
be kind to me I will thank Him, as a gentleman should, and I will take no advantage of His
kindness; but if He cannot see His way clear to do that, I will take what is coming."

"Dear Sir Tom," said Jane, with streaming eyes, "God cannot be hard with you, who have been
so good to every one."

"If there's little harm in me life, there's but scant good, too; I can't find much credit.
Me good angel has had an easy time of it, more's the pity; but Janie, if you love me, Le Bon
Dieu will not be hard on me. He cannot be severe with a poor Irishman who never stacked the
cards, pulled a race, or turned his back on a friend, and who is loved by an angel."

I asked Sir Tom what we should do for him after he had passed away.

"It would be foine to sleep in the woods just back of Janie's forge, where I could hear the
click of her hammer if the days get lonely; but there's a little castle, God save the mark,
out from Sligo. Me forebears are there,--the lucky ones,--and me wish is to sleep with them;
but I doubt it can be."

"Indeed it can be, and it shall be, too," said Polly. "We will all go with you, Sir Tom, when
June comes, and you shall sleep in your own ground with your own kin."

"I don't deserve it, Mrs. Williams, indeed I don't, but I would lie easier there. That sod
has known us for a thousand years, and it's the greenest, softest, kindest sod in all the world;
but little I'll mind when the breath is gone. I'll not be asking that much of you."

"My dear old chap, we won't lose sight of you until that green sod covers the stanchest heart
that ever beat. Polly is right. We'll go with you to Sligo,--all of us,--Polly and Jane and
Jack and I, and Kate and the babies, too, if we can get them. You shall not be lonesome."

"Lonesome, is it? I'll be in the best of company. Me heart is at rest from this moment, and
I'll wait patiently until I can show you Sligo. This is a fine country, Mrs. Williams, and
it has given me the truest friends in all the world, but the ground is sweet in Sligo."

His breath came fainter and faster, and we could see that it would soon cease. After resting
a few minutes, Sir Tom said:--

"Me lady Laura, do you mind that prayer song, the second verse?"

Laura's voice was sobbing and uncertain as it quavered:--

    "Other refuge have I none,"

but it gained courage and persuasiveness until it filled the room and the heart of the man with,--

    "Cover my defenceless head,
    With the shadow of Thy wing."

A gentle smile and the relaxing of closed hands completed the story of our loss, though the
real weight of it came days and months later.

It was long before we could take up our daily duties with anything like the familiar happiness.
Something had gone out of our lives that could never be replaced, and only time could salve
the wounds. The dear man who had gone was no friend to solemn faces, and living interests must
bury dead memories; but it was a long time before the click of Jane's hammer was heard in her
forge; not until Laura had said, "It will please him, Jane."

CHAPTER LVIII

BACTERIA

January, February, and March passed with more than the usual snow and rain,--fully ten inches
of precipitation; but the spring proved neither cold nor late. During these three months we
sold butter to the amount of $1283, and $747 worth of eggs; in all, $2030.

The ploughs were started in the highest land on the 11th of April, and were kept going steadily
until they had turned over nearly 280 acres.

I decided to put the whole of the widow's field into corn, lots 8, 12, and 15 (84 acres) into
oats, and 50 acres of the orchards into roots and sweet fodder corn. Number 13 was to be sown
with buckwheat as soon as the rye was cut for green forage. I decided to raise more alfalfa,
for we could feed more to advantage, and it was fast gaining favor in my establishment. It
is so productive and so nutritious that I wonder it is not more generally used by farmers who
make a specialty of feeding stock. It contains as much protein as most grains, and is wholesome
and highly palatable if properly cured. It should be cut just as it is coming into flower,
and should be cured in the windrow. The leaves are the most nutritious part of the plant, and
they are apt to fall off if the cutting be deferred, or if the curing be done carelessly.

Lot No. 9 was to be fitted for alfalfa as soon as the season would permit. First, it must receive
a heavy dressing of manure, to be ploughed under. The ordinary plough was to be followed in
this case by a subsoiler, to stir the earth as deep as possible. When the seed was sown, the
land was to receive five hundred pounds an acre of high-grade fertilizer, and one hundred pounds
an acre of infected soil.

The peculiar bacterium that thrives on congenial alfalfa soil is essential to the highest development
of the plant. Without its presence the grass fails in its chief function--the storing of nitrogen--and
makes but poor growth. When the alfalfa bacteria are abundant, the plant flourishes and gathers
nitrogen in knobs and bunches in its roots and in the joints of its stems.

I sent to a very successful alfalfa grower in Ohio for a thousand pounds of soil from one of
his fields, to vaccinate my field with. This is not always necessary,--indeed, it rarely is,
for alfalfa seed usually carry enough bacteria to inoculate favorable soils; but I wished to
see if this infected soil would improve mine. I have not been able to discover any marked advantage
from its use; the reason being that my soil was so rich in humus and added manures that the
colonies of bacteria on the seeds were quite sufficient to infect the whole mass. Under less
favorable conditions, artificial inoculation is of great advantage.

Wonderful are the secrets of nature. The infinitely small things seem to work for us and the
infinitely large ones appear suited to our use; and yet, perhaps, this is all "seeming" and
"appearing." We may ourselves be simply more advanced bacteria, working blindly toward the
solution of an infinite problem in which we are concerned only as means to an end.

"Why should the spirit of mortal be proud," until it has settled its relative position with
both Sirius and the micro-organisms, or has estimated its stature by view-points from the bacterial
world and from the constellation of Lyra. Until we have been able to compare opinions from
these extremes, if indeed they be extremes, we cannot expect to make a correct estimate of
our value in the economy of the universe. I fancy that we are apt to take ourselves too seriously,
and that we will sometime marvel at the shadow which we did not cast.

CHAPTER LIX

MATCH-MAKING

The home lot took on a home look in the spring of 1898. The lawn lost its appearance of newness;
the trees became acquainted with each other; the shrubs were on intimate terms with their neighbors,
and broke into friendly rivalry of blossoms; the gardens had a settled-down look, as if they
had come to stay; and even the wall flowers were enjoying themselves. These efforts of nature
to make us feel at ease were thankfully received by Polly and me, and we voted that this was
more like home than anything else we had ever had; and when the fruit trees put forth their
promise of an autumn harvest in great masses of blossoms, we declared that we had made no mistake
in transforming ourselves from city to country folk.

"Aristocracy is of the land," said Polly. "It always has been and always will be the source
of dignity and stability. I feel twice as great a lady as I did in the tall house on B---- Street."

"So you don't want to go back to that tall house, madam?"

"Indeed I don't. Why should I?"

"I don't know why you should, only I remember Lot's wife looked back toward the city."

"Don't mention that woman! She didn't know what she wanted. You won't catch me looking toward
the city, except once a week for three or four hours, and then I hurry back to the farm to
see what has happened in my garden while I've been away."

"But how about your friends, Polly?"

"You know as well as I that we haven't lost a friend by living out here, and that we've tied
some of them closer. No, sir! No more city life for me. It may do for young people, who don't
know better, but not for me. It's too restricted, and there's not enough excitement."

"Country life fits us like paper on the wall," said I, "but how about the youngsters? If we
insist on keeping children, we must take them into our scheme of life."

"Of course we must, but children are an unknown quantity. They are x in the domestic problem,
and we cannot tell what they stand for until the problem is worked out. I don't see why we
can't find the value of x in the country as easily as in the city. They have had city and school
life, now let them see country life; the x will stand for wide experience at least."

"Jane likes it thus far," said I, "and I think she will continue; but I don't feel so sure
about Jack."

"You're as blind as a bat--or a man. Jane loves country life because she's young and growing;
but there's a subconscious sense which tells her that she's simply fitting herself to be carried
off by that handsome giant, Jim Jarvis. She doesn't know it, but it's the truth all the same,
and it will come as sure as tide; and when it does come, her life will be run into other moulds
than we have made, no matter how carefully."

"I wonder where this modern Hercules is most vulnerable. I'll slay him if I find him mousing
around my Jane."

"You will slay nothing, Mr. Headman, and you know it; you will just take what's coming to you,
as others have done since the world was young."

"Well, I give fair warning; it's 'hands off Jane,' for lo, these many years, or some one will
be brewing 'harm tea' for himself."

"You bark so loud no one will believe you can bite," said this saucy, match-making mother.

"How about Jack?" said I. "Have you settled the moulds he is to be run in?"

"Not entirely; but I am not as one without hope. Jack will be through college in June, and
will go abroad with us for July and August; he will be as busy as possible with the miners
from the moment he comes back; he is much in love with Jessie, the Gordon's have no other child,
the property is large, Homestead Farm is only three miles, and--"

"Slow up, Polly! Slow up! Your main line is all right, but your terminal facilities are bad.
Jack is to be educated, travelled, employed, engaged, married, endowed with Homestead Farm,
and all that; but you mustn't kill off the Gordons. I swing the red lantern in front of that
train of thought. Let Jack and Jessie wait till we are through with Four Oaks and the Gordons
have no further use for Homestead Farm, before thinking of coupling that property on to this."

"Don't be a greater goose than you can help," said Polly. "You know what I mean. Men are so
short-sighted! Laura says, 'the Headman ought to have a small dog and a long stick'; but no
matter, I'll keep an eye on the children, and you needn't worry about country life for them.
They'll take to it kindly."

"Well, they ought to, if they have any appreciation of the fitness of things. Did you ever
see weather made to order before? I feel as if I had been measured for it."

"It suits my garden down to the ground," said Polly, who hates slang.

"It was planned for the farmer, madam. If it happens to fit the rose-garden mistress, it is
a detail for you to note and be thankful for, but the great things are outside the rose gardens.
Look at that corn-field! A crow could hide in it anywhere."

"What have crows hiding got to do with corn, I'd like to know?"

"When I was a boy the farmers used to say, 'If it will cover a crow's back on the Fourth of
July, it will make good corn,' and I am farmering with old saws when I can't find new ones."

"It's all of three weeks yet to the Fourth of July, and your corn will cover a turkey by that
time."

"I hope so, but we shan't be here to see it, more's the pity, as Sir Tom would say."

"Do you know, Kate says she won't go over. She doesn't think it would pay for so short a trip.
Why do you insist upon eight weeks?"

"Well, now, I like that! When did I ever insist on anything, Mrs. Williams? Not since I knew
you well, did I? But be honest, Polly. Who has done the cutting down of this trip? You and
the youngsters may stay as long as you please, but I will be back here September 1st unless
the Normania breaks a shaft."

"I wish we could go over on a German boat. I hate the Cunarders."

"So do I, but we must land at Queenstown. We must put Sir Tom under the sod at that little
castle out from Sligo. Then we can do Holland and Belgium, and have a week or ten days in London."

"That will be enough. I do hope Johnson will take good care of my flowers; it's the very most
important time, you know, and if he neglects them--"

"He won't neglect them, Polly; even if he does, they can be easily replaced. But the hay harvest,
now, that's different; if they spoil the timothy or cut the alfalfa too late!"

"Bother your alfalfa! What do I care for that? Kate's coming out with the babies, and I'm going
to put her in full charge of the gardens. She'll look after them, I'm sure. I'll tell you another
bit of news: Jim Jarvis is bound to go with us, Jack says, and he has asked if we'll let him."

"How long have you had that up your sleeve, young woman? I don't like it a little bit! That
is why you talked so like an oracle a little while ago! What does Jane say?"

"She doesn't say much, but I think she wouldn't object."

"Of course she can't object. You sick a big brute of a man on to a little girl, and she don't
dare object; but I'll feed him to the fishes if he worries her."

"To be sure you will, Mr. Ogre. Anybody would be sure of that to hear you talk."

"Don't chaff me, Polly. This is a serious business. If you sell my girl, I'm going to buy a
new one. I'll ask Jessie Gordon to go with us and, if Jack is half the man I take him to be,
he'll replenish our stock of girls before we get back."

"Who is match-making now?"

"I don't care what you call it. I shall take out letters of marque and reprisal. I won't raise
girls to be carried off by the first privateer that makes sail for them, without making some
one else suffer. If Jarvis goes, Jessie goes, that's flat."

"I think it will be an excellent plan, Mr. Bad Temper, and I've no doubt that we can manage it."

"Don't say 'we' when you talk of managing it. I tell you I'm entirely on the defensive until
some one robs me, then I'll take what is my neighbor's if I can get it. If it were not for
my promise to Sir Tom, I wouldn't leave the farm for a minute! And I would establish a quarantine
against all giants for at least five years."

"You know you like Jarvis. He is one of the best."

"That's all right, Polly. He's as fine as silk, but he isn't fine enough for our Jane yet."

CHAPTER LX

"I TOLD YOU SO"

It may be the limitless horizon, it may be the comradery of confinement, it may be the old
superstition of a plank between one and eternity, or it may be some occult influence of ship
and ocean; but certain it is that there is no such place in all the world as a deck of a transatlantic
liner for softening young hearts, until they lose all semblance of shape, and for melting them
into each other so that out of twain there comes but one. I think Polly was pleased to watch
this melting process, as it began to show itself in our young people, from the safe retreat
of her steamer chair and behind the covers of her book. I couldn't find that she read two chapters
from any book during the whole voyage, or that she was miserable or discontented. She just
watched with a comfortable "I told you so" expression of countenance; and she never mentioned
home lot or garden or roses, from dock to dock.

It is as natural for a woman to make matches as for a robin to build nests, and I suppose I
had as much right to find fault with the one as with the other. I did not find fault with her,
but neither could I understand her; so I fretted and fumed and smoked, and walked the deck
and bet on everything in sight and out of sight, until the soothing influence of the sea took
hold of me, and then I drifted like the rest of them.

No, I will not say "like the rest of them," for I could not forgive this waste of space given
over to water. In other crossings I had not noted the conspicuous waste with any feeling of
loss or regret; but other crossings had been made before I knew the value of land. I could
not get away from the thought that it would add much to the wealth of the world if the mountains
were removed and cast into the sea. Not only that, but it would curb to some extent the ragings
of this same turbulent sea, which was rolling and tossing us about for no really good reason
that I could discover. The Atlantic had lost much of its romance and mystery for me, and I
wondered if I had ever felt the enthusiasm which I heard expressed on all sides.

"There she spouts!" came from a dozen voices, and the whole passenger list crowded the port
rail, just to see a cow whale throwing up streams of water, not immensely larger than the streams
of milk which my cow Holsteins throw down. The crowd seemed to take great pleasure in this
sight, but to me it was profitless.

I have known the day when I could watch the graceful leaps and dives of a school of porpoises,
as it kept with easy fin, alongside of our ocean greyhound, with pleasure unalloyed by any
feeling of non-utility. But now these "hogs of the sea" reminded me of my Chester Whites, and
the comparison was so much in favor of the hogs of the land, that I turned from these spectacular,
useless things, to meditate upon the price of pork. Even Mother Carey's chickens gave me no
pleasure, for they reminded me of a far better brood at home, and I cheerfully thanked the
noble Wyandottes who were working every third day so that I could have a trip to Europe. To
be sure, I had European trips before I had Wyandottes; to have them both the same year was
the marvel.

Before we reached Queenstown, Jarvis had gained some ground by twice picking me out of the
scuppers; but as I resented his steadiness of foot and strength of hand, it was not worth mentioning.
I could see, however, that these feats were great in Jane's eyes. The double rescue of a beloved
parent, from, not exactly a watery grave, but a damp scupper, would never be forgotten. The
giant let her adore his manly strength and beauty, and I could only secretly hope that some
wave--tidal if necessary--would take him off his feet and send him into the scuppers. But he
had played football too long to be upset by a watery wave, and I was balked of my revenge.

Jack and Jessie were rather a pleasure to me than otherwise. They settled right down to the
heart-softening business in such matter-of-fact fashion that their hearts must have lost contour
before the voyage was half over. Polly dismissed them from her mind with a sigh of satisfaction,
and I then hoped that she would find some time to devote to me, but I was disappointed. She
assured me that those two were safely locked in the fold, but that she could not "set her mind
at rest" until the other two were safe. After that she promised to take me in hand; whether
for reward or for punishment left me guessing.

The six and a half days finally came to an end, and we debarked for Queenstown. The journey
across Ireland was made as quickly as slow trains and a circuitous route would permit, and
we reached Sligo on the second day. Sir Thomas's agent met us, and we drove at once to the
"little castle out from Sligo." It proved to be a very old little castle, four miles out, overlooking
the bay. It was low and flat, with thick walls of heavy stone pierced by a few small windows,
and a broad door made of black Irish oak heavily studded with iron. From one corner rose a
square tower, thirty feet or more in height, covered with wild vines that twined in and out
through the narrow, unglazed windows.

Within was a broad, low hall, from which opened four rooms of nearly equal size. There was
little evidence that the castle had been inhabited during recent years, though there was an
ancient woman care-taker who opened the great door for us, and then took up the Irish peasant's
wail for the last of the O'Haras. She never ceased her crooning except when she spoke to us,
which was seldom; but she placed us at table in the state dining room, and served us with stewed
kid, potatoes, and goat's milk. The walls of the dining room were covered with ancient pictures
of the O'Haras, but none so recent as a hundred years. We could well believe Sir Tom's words,
"the sod has known us for a thousand years," when we looked upon the score of pictures, each
of which stood for at least one generation.

The agent told us that our friend had never lived at the castle, but that he had visited the
place as a child, and again just before leaving for America. A wall-enclosed lot about two
hundred feet square was "the kindest sod in all the world to an O'Hara," and here we placed
our dear friend at rest with the "lucky ones" of his race. No one of the race ever deserved
more "luck" than did our Sir Tom. The young clergyman who read the service assured us that
he had found it; and our minds gave the same evidence, and our hearts said Amen, as we turned
from his peaceful resting-place by the green waters of Sligo Bay.

Two days later we were comfortably lodged at The Hague, from which we intended to "do" the
little kingdom of Holland by rail, by canal, or on foot, as we should elect.

CHAPTER LXI

THE BELGIAN FARMER

Leaving Holland with regret, we crossed the Schelde into Belgium, the cockpit of Europe. It
is here that one sees what intensive farming is like. No fences to occupy space, no animals
roaming at large, nothing but small strips of land tilled to the utmost, chiefly by hand. Little
machinery is used, and much of the work is done after primitive fashions; but the land is productive,
and it is worked to the top of its bent.

The peasant-farmer soils his cows, his sheep, his swine, in a way that is economical of space
and food, if not of labor, and manages to make a living and to pay rent for his twenty-acre
strip of land. His methods do not appeal to the American farmer, who wastes more grain and
forage each year than would keep the Netherlander, his family, and his stock; but there is
a lesson to be learned from this subdivision and careful cultivation of land. Belgian methods
prove that Mother Earth can care for a great many children if she be properly husbanded, and
that the sooner we recognize her capacity the better for us.

Abandoned farms are not known in Belgium and France, though the soil has been cultivated for
a thousand years, and was originally no better than our New England farms, and not nearly so
good as hundreds of those which are practically given over to "old fields" in Virginia.

It is neglect that impoverishes land, not use. Intelligent use makes land better year by year.
The only way to wear out land is to starve and to rob it at the same time. Food for man and
beast may be taken from the soil for thousands of years without depleting it. All it asks in
return is the refuse, carefully saved, properly applied, and thoroughly worked in to make it
available. If, in addition to this, a cover crop of some leguminous plant be occasionally turned
under, the soil may actually increase in fertility, though it be heavily cropped each year.

It would pay the young American farmer to study Belgian methods, crude though they are, for
the insight he could gain into the possibilities of continuous production. The greatest number
of people to the square mile in the inhabited globe live in this little, ill-conditioned kingdom,
and most of them get their living from the soil. It has been the battle-field of Europe: a
thousand armies have harrowed it; human blood has drenched it from Liège to Ostend; it has
been depopulated again and again. But it springs into new life after each catastrophe, simply
because the soil is prolific of farmers, and they cannot be kept down. Like the poppies on
the field of Waterloo, which renew the blood-red strife each year, the Belgian peasant-farmer
springs new-born from the soil, which is the only mother he knows.

After two weeks in Holland, two in Belgium, and two in London, we were ready to turn our faces
toward home.

We took the train to Southampton, and a small side-wheel steamer carried us outside Southampton
waters, where we tossed about for thirty minutes before the Normania came to anchor. The wind
was blowing half a gale from the north, and we were glad to get under the lee of the great
vessel to board her.

The transfer was quickly made, and we were off for New York. The wind gained strength as the
day grew old, but while we were in the Solent the bluff coast of Devon and Cornwall broke its
force sufficiently to permit us to be comfortable on the port side of the ship.

As night came on, great clouds rolled up from the northwest and the wind increased. Darkness,
as of Egypt, fell upon us before we passed the Lizard, and the only things that showed above
the raging waters were the beacon lights, and these looked dim and far away. Occasionally a
flash of lightning threw the waters into relief, and then made the darkness more impenetrable.
As we steamed beyond the Lizard and the protecting Cornish coast, the full force of the gale,
from out the Irish Sea, struck us. We were going nearly with it, and the good ship pitched
and reared like an angry horse, but did not roll much. Pitching is harder to bear than rolling,
and the decks were quickly vacated.

I turned into my stateroom soon after ten o'clock, and then happened a thing which will hold
a place in my memory so long as I have one. I did not feel sleepy, but I was nervous, restless,
and half sick. I lay on my lounge for perhaps half an hour, and then felt impelled to go on
deck. I wrapped myself in a great waterproof ulster, pulled my storm cap over my ears, and
climbed the companionway. Two or three electric bulbs in sheltered places on deck only served
to make the darkness more intense. I crawled forward of the ladies' cabin, and, supporting
myself against the donkey-engine, peered at the light above the crow's-nest and tried to think
that I could see the man on watch in the nest. I did see him for an instant, when the next
flash of lightning came, and also two officers on the bridge; and I knew that Captain Bahrens
was in the chart house. When the next flash came, I saw the other lookout man making his short
turns on the narrow space of bow deck, and was tempted to join him; why, I do not know. I crept
past the donkey-engine, holding fast to it as I went, until I reached the iron gate that closes
the narrow passage to the bow deck. With two silver dollars in my teeth I staggered across
this rail-guarded plank, and when the next flash came I was sitting at the feet of the lookout
man with the two silver dollars in my outstretched hand. He took the money, and let me crawl
forward between the anchors and the high bulwark of the bows.

The sensations which this position gave me were strange beyond description. Darkness was thick
around me; at one moment I was carried upward until I felt that I should be lost in the black
sky, and the next moment the downward motion was so terrible that the blacker water at the
bottom of the sea seemed near. I cannot say that I enjoyed it, but I could not give it up.

When the great bow rose, I stood up, and, looking over the bulwark, tried to see either sky
or water, but tried in vain, save when the lightning revealed them both. When the bow fell,
I crouched under the bulwark and let the sea comb over me. How long I remained at this weird
post, I do not know; but I was driven from it in such terror as I hope never to feel again.

An unusually large wave carried me nearer the sky than I liked to be, and just as the sharp
bow of the great iron ship was balancing on its crest for the desperate plunge, a glare of
lightning made sky and sea like a sheet of flame and curdled the blood in my veins. In the
trough of the sea, under the very foot of the immense steamship, lay a delicate pleasure-boat,
with its mast broken flush with its deck, and its helpless body the sport of the cruel waves.

The light did not last longer than it would take me to count five, but in that time I saw four
figures that will always haunt me. Two sailors in yachting costume were struggling hopelessly
with the tiller, and the wild terror of their faces as they saw the huge destruction that hung
over them is simply unforgettable.

The other two were different. A strong, blond man, young, handsome, and brave I know, stood
bareheaded in front of the cockpit. With a sudden, vehement motion he drew the head of a girl
to his breast and held it there as if to shut out the horrible world. There was no fear in
his face,--just pain and distress that he was unable to do more. I am thankful that I did not
see the face of the girl. Her brown hair has floated in my dreams until I have cried out for
help; what would her face have done?

In the twinkling of an eye it was over. I heard a sound as when one breaks an egg on the edge
of a cup,--no more. I screamed with horror, ran across the guarded plank, climbed the gate,
and fell headlong and screaming over the donkey-engine. Picking up my battered self, I shouted:

"Bahrens! Bahrens! for God's sake, help! Man overboard! Stop the ship!"

I reached the ladder to the bridge just as the captain came out of the chart house.

"For God's sake, stop the ship! You've run down a boat with four people! Stop her, can't you!"

"It can't be done, man. If we've run down a boat, it's all over with it and all in it. I can't
risk a thousand lives without hope of saving one. This is a gale, Doctor, and we have our hands
full."

I turned from him in horror and despair. I stumbled to my stateroom, dropped my wet clothing
in the middle of the floor, and knew no more until the trumpet called for breakfast. The rush
of green waters was pounding at my porthole; the experience of the night came back to me with
horror; the reek of my wet clothes sickened my heart, and I rang for the steward.

"Take these things away, Gustav, and don't bring them back until they are dry and pressed."

"What things does the Herr Doctor speak for?"

"The wet things there on the floor."

"Excuse me, but I have seen no things wet."

"You Dutch chump!" said I, half rising, "what do you mean by saying--Well, I'll be damned!"
There were my clothes, dry and folded, on the couch, and my ulster and cap on their hook, without
evidence of moisture or use.

"Gustav, remind me to give you three rix-dollars at breakfast."

"Danke, Herr Doctor."

Of such stuff are dreams made. But I will know those terror-stricken sailors if I do not see
them for a hundred years; and I am glad the dark-haired girl did not realize the horror, but
simply knew that the man loved her; and I often think of the man who did the nice thing when
no one was looking, and whose face was not terrorized by the crack of doom.

CHAPTER LXII

HOME-COMING

Even Polly was satisfied with our young people before we entered New York Bay. If anything
in their "left pulmonaries" had remained unsoftened during the voyage out and the comradery
of the Netherlands, it was melted into non-resistance by the homeward trip. I could not long
hold out against the evidence of happiness that surrounded me, and I gave a half-grudging consent
that Jarvis and Jane might play together for the next three or four years, if they would not
ask to play "for keeps" until those years had passed. They readily gave the promise, but every
one knows how such promises are kept. The children wore me out in time, as all children do
in all kinds of ways, and got their own ways in less than half the contract period. I cannot
put my finger on any punishment that has befallen them for this lack of filial consideration,
and I am fifteen-sixteenths reconciled.

I was downright glad that Jack "made good" with Jessie Gordon. She was the sort of girl to
get out the best that was in him, and I was glad to have her begin early. Try as I might, I
could not feel unhappy that beautiful September morning as we steamed up the finest waterway
to the finest city in the world. Deny it who will, I claim that our Empire City and its environments
make the most impressive human show. There is more life, vigor, utility, gorgeousness about
it than can be found anywhere else; and it has the snap and elasticity of youth, which are
so attractive. No man who claims the privilege of American citizenship can sail up New York
Bay without feeling pride in his country and satisfaction in his birthright. One doesn't disparage
other cities and other countries when he claims that his own is the best.

We were not specially badly treated at the custom-house,--no worse, indeed, than smugglers,
thieves, or pirates would have been; and we escaped, after some hours of confinement, without
loss of life or baggage, but with considerable loss of dignity. How can a self-respecting,
middle-aged man (to be polite to myself) stand for hours in a crowded shed, or lean against
a dirty post, or sit on the sharp edge of his open trunk, waiting for a Superior Being with
a gilt band around his hat, without losing some modicum of dignity? And how, when this Superior
Being calls his number and kicks his trunk, is he to know that he is a free-born American citizen
and a lineal descendant of Roger Williams? The evidence is entirely from within. How is he
to support a countenance and mien of dignity while the secrets of his chest are laid bare and
the contents of his trunk dumped on the dirty floor? And how must his eyes droop and his face
take on a hang-dog look when his second-best coat is searched for diamonds, and his favorite
(though worn) pajamas punched for pearls.

There are concessions to be made for one's great and glorious country, and the custom-house
is one of them. Perhaps we will do better sometime, and perhaps, though this is unlikely, the
customs inspectors of the future will disguise themselves as gentlemen. We finally passed the
inquisition, and, with stuffed trunks and ruffled spirits, took cabs for the station, and were
presently within the protecting walls at Four Oaks, there to forget lost dignities in the cultivation
of land and new ones.

CHAPTER LXIII

AN HUNDRED FOLD

Kate declared that she had had the time of her life during her nine weeks' stay at Four Oaks.
"People here every day, and the house full over Sunday. We've kept the place humming," said
she, "and you may be thankful if you find anything here but a mortgage. When Tom and I get
rich, we are going to be farm people."

"Don't wait for that, daughter. Start your country home early and let it grow up with the children.
It doesn't take much money to buy the land and to get fruit trees started. If Tom will give
it his care for three hours a week, he will make it at least pay interest and taxes, and it
will grow in value every year until you are ready to live on it. Think how our orchards would
look now if we had started them ten years ago! They would be fit to support an average family."

"There, Dad, don't mount your hobby as soon as ever you get home. But we have had a good time
out here. Do you really think farming is all beer and skittles?"

"It has been smooth sailing for me thus far, and I believe it is simply a business with the
usual ups and downs; but I mean to make the ups the feature in this case."

"Are you really glad to get back to it? Didn't you want to stay longer?"

"I had a fine trip, and all that, but I give you this for true; I don't think it would make
me feel badly if I were condemned to stay within forty miles of this place for the rest of
my life."

"I can't go so far as that with you, Dad, but perhaps I may when I'm older."

"Yes, age makes a difference. At forty a man is a fool or a farmer, or both; at fifty the pull
of the land is mighty; at sixty it has full possession of him; at seventy it draws him down
with other forces than that which Newton discovered, and at eighty it opens for him and kindly
tucks the sod around him. Mother Earth is no stepmother, but warm and generous to all, and
I think a fellow is lucky who comes to her for long years of bounty before he is compelled
to seek her final hospitality."

"But, Dad, we can't all be farmers."

"Of course not, and there's the pity of it; but almost every man can have a plot of ground
on which each year he can grow some new thing, if only a radish or a leaf of lettuce, to add
to the real wealth of the world. I tell you, young lady, that all wealth springs out of the
ground. You think that riches are made in Wall Street, but they are not; they are only handled
and manipulated. Stop the work of the farmer from April to October of any year, and Wall Street
would be a howling wilderness. The Street makes it easier to exchange a dozen eggs for three
spools of silk, or a pound of butter for a hat pin, but that's all; it never created half the
intrinsic value of twelve eggs or sixteen ounces of butter. It's only the farmer who is a wealth
producer, and it's high time that he should be recognized as such. He's the husbandman of all
life; without him the world would be depopulated in three years. You don't half appreciate
the profession which your Dad has taken up in his old age."

"That sounds all right, but I don't think the farmer would recognize himself from that description.
He doesn't live up to his possibilities, does he?"

"Mighty few people do. A farmer may be what he chooses to be. He's under no greater limitations
than a business or a professional man. If he be content to use his muscle blindly, he will
probably fall under his own harrow. So, too, would the merchant or the lawyer who failed to
use his intelligence in his business. The farmer who cultivates his mind as well as his land,
uses his pencil as often as his plough, and mixes brains with brawn, will not fall under his
own harrow or any other man's. He will never be the drudge of soil or of season, for to a large
extent he can control the soil and discount the season. No other following gives such opportunity
for independence and self-balance."

"Almost thou persuadest me to become a farmer," said Kate, as we left the porch, where I had
been admiring my land while I lectured on the advantages of husbandry.

Polly came out of the rose garden, where she had been examining her flowers and setting her
watch, and said:--

"Kate, you and the grand-girls must stay this month out, anyway. It seems an age since we saw
you last."

"All right, if Dad will agree not to fire farm fancies and figures at me every time he catches
me in an easy-chair."

"I'll promise, but you don't know what you're missing."

Four Oaks looked great, and I was tempted to tramp over every acre of it, saying to each, "You
are mine"; but first I had a little talk with Thompson.

"Everything has been greased for us this summer," said Thompson. "We got a bumper crop of hay,
and the oats and corn are fine! I allow you've got fifty-five bushels of oats to the acre in
those shocks, and the corn looks like it stood for more than seventy. We sold nine more calves
the end of June, for $104. Mr. Tom must have a lot of money for you, for in August we sold
the finest bunch of shoates you ever saw,--312 of them. They were not extra heavy, but they
were fine as silk. Mr. Tom said they netted $4.15 per hundred, and they averaged a little over
260 pounds. I went down with them, and the buyers tumbled over each other to get them. I was
mighty proud of the bunch, and brought back a check for $3407."

"Good for you, Thompson! That's the best sale yet."

"Some of the heifers will be coming in the last of this month or the first of next. Don't you
want to get rid of those five scrub cows?"

"Better wait six weeks, and then you may sell them. Do you know where you can place them?"

"Jackson was looking at them a few days ago, and said he would give $35 apiece for them; but
they are worth more."

"Not for us, Thompson, and not for him, either, if he saw things just right. They're good for
scrubs; but they don't pay well enough for us, and if he wants them he can have them at that
price about the middle of October."

The credit account for the second quarter of 1898 stood:--

23 calves . . . . .  $270.00
Eggs    . . . . . .   637.00
Butter  . . . . . .  1314.00
   Total. . . . . .  $2221.00

CHAPTER LXIV

COMFORT ME WITH APPLES

September added a new item to our list of articles sold; small, indeed, but the beginning of
the fourth and last product of our factory farm,--fruit from our newly planted orchards. The
three hundred plum trees in the chicken runs gave a moderate supply for the colony, and the
dwarf-pear trees yielded a small crop; but these were hardly included in our scheme. I expected
to be able, by and by, to sell $200 or $300 worth of plums; but the chief income from fruit
would come from the fifty acres of young apple orchards.

I hope to live to see the time when these young orchards will bring me at least $5 a year for
each tree; and if I round out my expectancy (as the life-insurance people figure it), I may
see them do much better. In the interim the day of small things must not be despised. In our
climate the Yellow Transparent and the Duchess do not ripen until early September, and I was
therefore at home in time to gather and market the little crop from my six hundred trees. The
apples were carefully picked, for they do not bear handling well, and the perfect ones were
placed in half-bushel boxes and sent to my city grocer. Not one defective apple was packed,
for I was determined that the Four Oaks stencil should be as favorably known for fruit as for
other products.

The grocer allowed me fifty cents a box. "The market is glutted with apples, but not your kind,"
said he. "Can you send more?" I could not send more, for my young trees had done their best
in producing ninety-six boxes of perfect fruit. Boxes and transportation came to ten cents
for each box, and I received $38 for my first shipment of fruit.

I cannot remember any small sum of money that ever pleased me more,--except the $28 which I
earned by seven months of labor in my fourteenth year; for it was "first fruits" of the last
of our interlacing industries.

Thirty-eight dollars divided among my trees would give one cent to each; but four years later
these orchards gave net returns of ninety cents for each tree, and in four years from now they
will bring more than twice that amount. At twelve years of age they will bring an annual income
of $3 each, and this income will steadily increase for ten or fifteen years. At the time of
writing, February, 1903, they are good for $1 a year, which is five per cent of $20.

Would I take $20 apiece for these trees? Not much, though that would mean $70,000. I do not
know where I could place $70,000 so that it would pay five per cent this year, six per cent
next year, and twenty per cent eight or ten years from now. Of course, $70,000 would be an
exorbitant price to pay for an orchard like mine; but it must be remembered that I am old and
cannot wait for trees to grow.

If a man will buy land at $50 or $60 an acre, plant it to apple trees (not less than sixty-five
to the acre), and bring these trees to an age when they will produce fruit to the value of
$1.50 each, they will not have cost more than $1.50 per tree for the land, the trees, and the
labor.

I am too old to begin over again, and I wish to see a handsome income from my experiment before
my eyes are dim; but why on earth young men do not take to this kind of investment is more
than I can see. It is as safe as government bonds, and infinitely safer than most mercantile
ventures. It is a dignified employment, free from the ordinary risks of business; and it is
not likely to be overdone. All one needs is energy, a little money, and a good bit of well-directed
intelligence. This combination is common enough to double our rural population, relieve the
congestion in trades and underpaid employments, and add immensely to the wealth of the country.
If we can only get the people headed for the land, it will do much toward solving the vexing
labor problems, and will draw the teeth of the communists and the anarchists; for no one is
so willing to divide as he who cannot lose by division. To the man who has a plot of ground
which he calls his own, division doesn't appeal with any but negative force. Neither should
it, until all available lands are occupied. Then he must move up and make room for another
man by his side.

The sales for the quarter ending September 30 were as follows:--

96 half-bushel boxes of apples          $38.00
9 calves                                104.00
Eggs                                    543.00
Butter                                 1293.00
Hogs                                   3407.00
                                      --------
        Total                         $5385.00

This was the best total for any three months up to date, and it made me feel that I was getting
pretty nearly out of the woods, so far as increasing my investment went.

Including my new hog-house and ten thousand bushels of purchased grain, the investment, thought
I, must represent quite a little more than $100,000, and I hoped not to go much beyond that
sum, for Polly looked serious when I talked of six figures, though she was reconciled to any
amount which could be stated in five.

My buildings were all finished, and were good for many years; and if they burned, the insurance
would practically replace them. My granary was full enough of oats and corn to provide for
deficits of years to come; and my flocks and herds were now at their maximum, since Sam had
turned more than eight hundred pullets into the laying pens. I began to feel that the factory
would soon begin to run full time and to make material returns for its equipment. It would,
of course, be several years before the fruit would make much showing, but I am a patient man,
and could wait.

CHAPTER LXV

THE END OF THE THIRD YEAR

"Polly," said I, on the evening of December 31, "let's settle the accounts for the year, and
see how much we must credit to 'experience' to make the figures balance."

"Aren't you going to credit anything to health, and good times generally? If not, you don't
play fair."

"We'll keep those things in reserve, to spring on the enemy at a critical moment; perhaps they
won't be needed."

"I fancy you will have to bring all your reserves into action this time, Mr. Headman, for you
promised to make a good showing at the end of the third year."

"Well, so I will; at least, according to my own estimate; but others may not see it as I do."

"Don't let others see it at all, then. The experiment is yours, isn't it?"

"Yes, for us; but it's more than a personal matter. I want to prove that a factory farm is
sound in theory and safe in practice, and that it will fit the needs of a whole lot of farmers."

"I hardly think that 'a whole lot of farmers,' or of any other kind of people, will put $100,000
into a farm on any terms. Don't you think you've been a little extravagant?"

"Only on the home forty, Polly. I will expound this matter to you some time until you fall
asleep, but not to-day. We have other business on hand. I want to give you this warning to
begin with: you are not to jump to a conclusion or on to my figures until you have fairly considered
two items which enter into this year's expense account. I've built an extra hog-house and have
bought ten thousand bushels of grain, at a total expense of about $6000. Neither of these items
was really needed this year; but as they are our insurance against disease and famine, I secured
them early and at low prices. They won't appear in the expense account again,--at least, not
for many years,--and they give me a sense of security that is mighty comforting."

"But what if Anderson sets fire to your piggery, or lightning strikes your granary,--how about
the expense account then?"

"What do you suppose fire insurance policies are for? To paper the wall? No, madam, they are
to pay for new buildings if the old ones burn up. I charge the farm over $200 a year for this
security, and it's a binding contract."

"Well, I'll try and forget the $6000 if you'll get to the figures at once."

"All right. First, let me go over the statement for the last quarter of the year. The sales
were: apples, from 150 old trees at $3 per tree, $450; 10 calves, $115; 360 hens and 500 cockerels,
$430; 5 cows (the common ones, to Jackson) at $35 each, $175; eggs, $827; butter, $1311; and
281 hogs, rushed to market in December when only about eight months old and sold for $3.70
per hundred to help swell this account, $2649; making a total for the fourth quarter of $5957.

"The items of expense for the year were:--

"Interest on investment   $5,132.00
 New hog-house             4,220.00
 10,000 bu. of grain       2,450.00
 Food for colony           5,322.00
 Food for stock            1,640.00
 Seeds and fertilizers     2,155.00
 Insurance and taxes         730.00
 Shoeing and repairs         349.00
 Replenishments              450.00

"Total                   $22,760.00

"The credit account reads: first quarter, $2030; second quarter, $2221; third quarter, $5387;
fourth quarter, $5957; total, $15,595.

"If we take out the $6670 for the extra piggery and the grain, the expense account and the
income will almost balance, even leaving out the $4000 which we agreed to pay for food and
shelter. I think that's a fair showing for the three years, don't you?"

"Possibly it is; but what a lot of money you pay for wages. It's the largest item."

"Yes, and it always will be. I don't claim that a factory farm can be run like a grazing or
a grain farm. One of its objects is to furnish well-paid employment to a lot of people. We've
had nine men and two lads all the year, and three extra men for seven months, three women on
the farm and five in the house,--twenty-two people to whom we've paid wages this year. Doesn't
that count for anything? How many did we keep in the city?"

"Four,--three women and a man."

"Then we give employment to eighteen more people at equally good wages and in quite as wholesome
surroundings. Do you realize, Polly, that the maids in the house get $1300 out of the $5300,--one
quarter of the whole? Possibly there is a suspicion of extravagance on the home forty."

"Not a bit of it! You know that you proved to me that it cost us $5200 a year for board and
shelter in the city, and you only credit the farm with $4000. That other $1200 would more than
pay the extra wages. I really don't think it costs as much to live here as it did on B----Street,
and any one can see the difference."

"You are right. If we call our plant an even $100,000, which at five per cent would mean $5000
a year,--where can you get house, lawns, woods, gardens, horses, dogs, servants, liberty, birds,
and sun-dials on a wide and liberal scale for $5000 a year, except on a farm like this? You
can't buy furs, diamonds, and yachts with such money anyhow or anywhere, so personal expenditures
must be left out of all our calculations. No, the wage account will always be the large one,
and I am glad it is so, for it is one finger of the helping hand."

"You haven't finished with the figures yet. You don't know what to add to our permanent investment."

"That's quickly done. Nineteen thousand five hundred and ninety-five dollars from twenty-two
thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars leaves three thousand one hundred and sixty-five dollars
to charge to our investment. I resent the word 'permanent,' which you underscored just now,
for each year we're going to have a surplus to subtract from this interest-bearing debt."

"Precious little surplus you'll have for the next few years, with Jack and Jane getting married,
and--"

"But, Polly, you can't charge weddings to the farm, any more than we can yachts and diamonds."

"I don't see why. A wedding is a very important part of one's life, and I think the farm ought
to be made to pay for it."

"I quite agree with you; but we must add $3165 to the old farm debt, and take up our increased
burden with such courage as we may. In round figures it is $106,000. Does that frighten you,
Polly?"

"A little, perhaps; but I guess we can manage it. You would have been frightened three years
ago if some one had told you that you would put $106,000 into a farm of less than five hundred
acres."

"You're right. Spending money on a farm is like other forms of vice,--hated, then tolerated,
then embraced. But seriously, a man would get a bargain if he secured this property to-day
for what it has cost us. I wouldn't take a bonus of $50,000 and give it up."

"You'll hardly find a purchaser at that price, and I'm glad you can't, for I want to live here
and nowhere else."

CHAPTER LXVI

LOOKING BACKWARD

With the close of the third year ends the detailed history of the factory farm. All I wish
to do further is to give a brief synopsis of the debit and credit accounts for each of the
succeeding four years.

First I will say a word about the people who helped me to start the factory. Thompson and his
wife are still with me, and they are well on toward the wage limit. Johnson has the gardens
and Lars the stables, and Otto is chief swineherd. French and his wife act as though they were
fixtures on the place, as indeed I hope they are. They have saved a lot of money, and they
are the sort who are inclined to let well enough alone. Judson is still at Four Oaks, doing
as good service as ever; but I fancy that he is minded to strike out for himself before long.
He has been fortunate in money matters since he gave up the horse and buggy; he informed me
six months ago that he was worth more than $5000.

"I shouldn't have had five thousand cents if I'd stuck to that darned old buggy," said he,
"and I guess I'll have to thank you for throwing me down that day."

Zeb has married Lena, and a little cottage is to be built for them this winter, just east of
the farm-house; and Lena's place is to be filled by her cousin, who has come from the old country.

Anderson and Sam both left in 1898,--poor, faithful Anderson because his heart gave out, and
Sam because his beacon called him.

Lars's boys, now sixteen and eighteen, have full charge of the poultry plant, and are quite
up to Sam in his best days. Of course I have had all kinds of troubles with all sorts of men;
but we have such a strong force of "reliables" that the atmosphere is not suited to the idler
or the hobo, and we are, therefore, never seriously annoyed. Of one thing I am certain: no
man stays long at our farm-house without apprehending the uses of napkin and bath-tub, and
these are strong missionary forces.

Through careful tilth and the systematic return of all waste to the land, the acres at Four
Oaks have grown more fertile each year. The soil was good seven years ago, and we have added
fifty per cent to its crop capacity. The amount of waste to return to the land on a farm like
this is enormous, and if it be handled with care, there will be no occasion to spend much money
for commercial fertilizers. I now buy fertilizers only for the mid-summer dressing on my timothy
and alfalfa fields. The apple trees are very heavily mulched, even beyond the spread of their
branches, with waste fresh from the vats, and once a year a light dressing of muriate of potash
is applied. The trees have grown as fast as could be desired, and all of them are now in bearing.
The apples from these young trees sold for enough last year to net ninety cents for each tree,
which is more than the trees have ever cost me.

In 1898 these orchards yielded $38; in 1899, $165; in 1900, $530; in 1901, $1117. Seven years
from the date of planting these trees, which were then three years old, I had received in money
$4720, or $1200 more than I paid for the fifty acres of land on which they grew. If one would
ask for better returns, all he has to do is to wait; for there is a sort of geometrical progression
inherent in the income from all well-cared-for orchards, which continues in force for about
fifteen years. There is, however, no rule of progress unless the orchards are well cared for,
and I would not lead any one to the mistake of planting an orchard and then doing nothing but
wait. Cultivate, feed, prune, spray, dig bores, fight mice, rabbits, aphides, and the thousand
other enemies to trees and fruit, and do these things all the time and then keep on doing them,
and you will win out. Omit all or any of them, and the chances are that you will fail of big
returns.

But orcharding is not unique in this. Every form of business demands prompt, timely, and intelligent
attention to make it yield its best. The orchards have been my chief care for seven years;
the spraying, mulching, and cultivation have been done by the men, but I think I have spent
one whole year, during the past seven, among my trees. Do I charge my orchards for this time?
No; for I have gotten as much good from the trees as they have from me, and honors are easy.
A meditative man in his sixth lustrum can be very happy with pruning-hook and shears among
his young trees. If he cannot, I am sincerely sorry for him.

I have not increased my plant during the past four years. My stock consume a little more than
I can raise; but there are certain things which a farm will not produce, and there are other
things which one had best buy, thus letting others work their own specialties.

If I had more land, would I increase my stock? No, unless I had enough land to warrant another
plant. My feeding-grounds are filled to their capacity from a sanitary point of view, and it
would be foolish to take risks for moderate returns. If I had as much more land, I would establish
another factory; but this would double my business cares without adding one item to my happiness.
As it is, the farm gives me enough to keep me keenly interested, and not enough to tire or
annoy me. So far as profits go, it is entirely satisfactory. It feeds and shelters my family
and twenty others in the colony, and also the stranger within the gates, and it does this year
after year without friction, like a well-oiled machine.

Not only this. Each year for the past four, it has given a substantial surplus to be subtracted
from the original investment. If I live to be sixty-eight years of age, the farm will be my
creditor for a considerable sum. I have bought no corn or oats since January, 1898. The seventeen
thousand bushels which I then had in my granary have slowly grown less, though there has never
been a day when we could not have measured up seven thousand or eight thousand bushels. I shall
probably buy again when the market price pleases me, for I have a horror of running short;
but I shall not sell a bushel, though prices jump to the sky.

I have seen the time when my corn and oats would have brought four times as much as I paid
for them, but they were not for sale. They are the raw material, to be made up in my factory,
and they are worth as much to me at twenty cents a bushel as at eighty cents. What would one
think of the manager of a silk-thread factory who sold his raw silk, just because it had advanced
in price? Silk thread would advance in proportion, and how does the manager know that he can
replace his silk when needed, even at the advanced price?

When corn went to eighty cents a bushel, hogs sold for $8.25 a hundred, and my twenty-cent
corn made pork just as fast as eighty-cent corn would have done, and a great deal cheaper.

Once I sold some timothy hay, but it was to "discount the season," just as I bought grain.

On July 18, 1901, a tremendous rain and wind storm beat down about forty acres of oats beyond
recovery. The next day my mowing machines, working against the grain, commenced cutting it
for hay. Before it was half cut, I sold to a livery-stable keeper in Exeter fifty tons of bright
timothy for $600. The storm brought me no loss, for the horses did quite as well on the oat
hay as they ever had done on timothy, and $600 more than paid for the loss of the grain.

During the first three years of my experiment hogs were very low,--lower, indeed, than at any
other period for forty years. It was not until 1899 that prices began to improve. During that
year my sales averaged $4.50 a hundred. In 1900 the average was $5.25, in 1901 it was $6.10,
and in 1902 it was just $7. It will be readily appreciated that there is more profit in pork
at seven cents a pound than at three and a half cents; but how much more is beyond me, for
it cost no more to get my swine to market last year than it did in 1896. I charge each hog
$1 for bran and shorts; this is all the ready money I pay out for him. If he weighs three hundred
pounds (a few do), he is worth $10.50 at $3.50 a hundred, or $21 at $7 a hundred; and it is
a great deal pleasanter to say $1 from $21, leaves $20, than to say $1 from $10.50 leaves $9.50.

Of course, $1 a head is but a small part of what the hog has cost when ready for market, but
it is all I charge him with directly, for his other expenses are carried on the farm accounts.
The marked increase in income during the past four years is wholly due to the advance in the
price of pork and the increased product of the orchards. The expense account has not varied much.

The fruit crop is charged with extra labor, packages, and transportation, before it is entered,
and the account shows only net returns. I have had to buy new machinery, but this has been
rather evenly distributed, and doesn't show prominently in any year.

In 1900 I lost my forage barn. It was struck by lightning on June 13, and burned to the ground.
Fortunately, there was no wind, and the rain came in such torrents as to keep the other buildings
safe. I had to scour the country over for hay to last a month, and the expense of this, together
with some addition to the insurance money, cost the farm $1000 before the new structure was
completed. I give below the income and the outgo for the last four years:--

          INCOME     EXPENSES   TO THE GOOD
1899    $17,780.00  $15,420.00   $2,360.00
1900     19,460.00   16,480.00    2,980.00
1901     21,424.00   15,520.00    5,904.00
1902     23,365.00   15,673.00    7,692.00
                                -----------
Making a total to the good of   $18,936.00

These figures cover only the money received and expended. They take no account of the $4000
per annum which we agreed to pay the farm for keeping us, so long as we made it pay interest
to us. Four times $4000 are $16,000 which, added to $18,936, makes almost $35,000 to charge
off from the $106,000 of original investment.

Polly was wrong when she spoke of it as a permanent investment. Four years more of seven-dollar
pork and thrifty apple growth will make this balance of $71,000 look very small. The interest
is growing rapidly less, and it will be but a short time before the whole amount will be taken
off the expense account. When this is done, the yearly balance will be increased by the addition
of $5000, and we may be able to make the farm pay for weddings, as Polly suggested.

CHAPTER LXVII

LOOKING FORWARD

I am not so opinionated as to think that mine is the only method of farming. On the contrary,
I know that it is only one of several good methods; but that it is a good one, I insist. For
a well-to-do, middle-aged man who was obliged to give up his profession, it offered change,
recreation, employment, and profit. My ability to earn money by my profession ceased in 1895,
and I must needs live at ease on my income, or adopt some congenial and remunerative employment,
if such could be found. The vision of a factory farm had flitted through my brain so often
that I was glad of the opportunity to test my theories by putting them into practice. Fortunately
I had money, and to spare; for I had but a vague idea of what money would be needed to carry
my experiment to the point of self-support. I set aside $60,000 as ample, but I spent nearly
twice that amount without blinking. It is quite likely that I could have secured as good and
as prompt returns with two-thirds of this expenditure. I plead guilty to thirty-three per cent
lack of economy; the extenuating circumstances were, a wish to let the members of my family
do much as they pleased and have good things and good people around them, and a somewhat luxurious
temperament of my own.

Polly and I were too wise (not to say too old) to adopt farming as a means of grace through
privations. We wanted the good there was in it, and nothing else; but as a secondary consideration
I wished to prove that it can be made to pay well, even though one-third of the money expended
goes for comforts and kickshaws.

It is not necessary to spend so much on a five-hundred-acre farm, and a factory farm need not
contain so many acres. Any number of acres from forty to five hundred, and any number of dollars
from $5000 to $100,000, will do, so long as one holds fast to the rules: good clean fences
for security against trespass by beasts, or weeds; high tilth, and heavy cropping; no waste
or fallow land; conscientious return to the land of refuse, and a cover crop turned under every
second year; the best stock that money can buy; feed for product, not simply to keep the animals
alive; force product in every way not detrimental to the product itself; maintain a strict
quarantine around your animals, and then depend upon pure food, water, air, sunlight, and good
shelter to keep them healthy; sell as soon as the product is finished, even though the market
doesn't please you; sell only perfect product under your own brand; buy when the market pleases
you and thus "discount the seasons"; remember that interdependent industries are the essence
of factory farming; employ the best men you can find, and keep them interested in your affairs;
have a definite object and make everything bend toward that object; plant apple trees galore
and make them your chief care, as in time they will prove your chief dependence. These are
some of the principles of factory farming, and one doesn't have to be old, or rich, to put
them into practice.

I would exchange my age, money, and acres for youth and forty acres, and think that I had the
best of the bargain; and I would start the factory by planting ten acres of orchard, buying
two sows, two cows, and two setting hens. Youth, strength, and hustle are a great sight better
than money, and the wise youth can have a finer farm than mine before he passes the half-century
mark, even though he have but a bare forty to begin with.

I do not take it for granted that every man has even a bare forty; but millions of men who
have it not, can have it by a little persistent self-denial; and when an able-bodied man has
forty acres of ground under his feet, it is up to him whether he will be a comfortable, independent,
self-respecting man or not.

A great deal of farm land is distant from markets and otherwise limited in its range of production,
but nearly every forty which lies east of the hundredth meridian is competent to furnish a
living for a family of workers, if the workers be intelligent as well as industrious. Farm
lands are each year being brought closer to markets by steam and electric roads; telephone
and telegraphic wires give immediate service; and the daily distribution of mails brings the
producer into close touch with the consumer. The day of isolation and seclusion has passed,
and the farmer is a personal factor in the market. He is learning the advantages of coöperation,
both in producing and in disposing of his wares; he has paid off his mortgage and has money
in the bank; he is a power in politics, and by far the most dependable element in the state.
Like the wrestler of old, who gained new strength whenever his foot touched the ground, our
country gains fresh vigor from every man who takes to the soil.

In preaching a hejira to the country, I do not forget the interests of the children. Let no
one dread country life for the young until they come to the full pith and stature of maturity;
for their chances of doing things worth doing in the world are four to one against those of
children who are city-bred. Four-fifths of the men and women who do great things are country-bred.
This is out of all proportion to the birth-rate as between country and city, and one is at
a loss to account for the disproportion, unless it is to be credited to environment. Is it
due to pure air and sunshine, making redder blood and more vigorous development, to broader
horizons and freedom from abnormal conventions? Or does a close relation to primary things
give a newness to mind and body which is granted only to those who apply in person?

Whatever the reason, it certainly pays to be country-bred. The cities draw to themselves the
cream of these youngsters, which is only natural; but the cities do not breed them, except
as exotics.

If the unborn would heed my advice, I would say, By all means be born in the country,--in Ohio
if possible. But, if fortune does not prove as kind to you as I could wish, accept this other
advice: Choose the, country for your foster-mother; go to her for consolation and rejuvenation,
take her bounty gratefully, rest on her fair bosom, and be content with the fat of the land.

THE RURAL SCIENCE SERIES

Includes books which state the underlying principles of agriculture in plain language.

The following volumes are now ready:

THE SOIL. By F.H. KING, of the University of Wisconsin. 303 pp. 45 illustrations. 75 cents.

THE FERTILITY OF THE LAND. By I.P. ROBERTS, of Cornell University. Second edition. 421 pp.
45 illustrations. $1.25.

THE SPRAYING OF PLANTS. By E.G. LODEMAN, late of Cornell University. 399 pp. 92 illustrations.
$1.00.

MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS. By H.H. WING, of Cornell University. Third edition. 311 pp. 43 illustrations.
$1.00.

THE PRINCIPLES OF FRUIT-GROWING. By L.H. BAILEY. Third edition. 516 pp. 120 illustrations. $1.25.

BUSH-FRUITS. By F.W. CARD, of Rhode Island College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. Second
edition. 537 pp. 113 illustrations. $1.50.

FERTILIZERS. By E.B. VOORHEES, of New Jersey Experiment Station. Second edition. 332 pp. $1.00.

THE PRINCIPLES OF AGRICULTURE. By L.H. BAILEY. Third edition. 300 pp. 92 illustrations. $1.25.

IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE. By F.H. KING, University of Wisconsin. 502 pp. 163 illustrations. $1.50.

THE FARMSTEAD. By I.P. ROBERTS. 350 pp. 138 illustrations. $1.25.

RURAL WEALTH AND WELFARE. By GEORGE T. FAIRCHILD, ex-President of the Agricultural College
of Kansas. 381 pp. 14 charts. $1.25.

THE PRINCIPLES OF VEGETABLE-GARDENING. By L.H. BAILEY. 468 pp. 144 illustrations. $1.25.

THE FEEDING OF ANIMALS. By W.H. JORDAN, of New York State Experiment Station. $1.25 net.

FARM POULTRY. By GEORGE C. WATSON, of Pennsylvania State College. $1.25 net.

CARE OF ANIMALS. By N.S. MAYO, of Connecticut Agricultural College. $1.25 net.

New volumes will be added from time to time to the RURAL SCIENCE SERIES. The following are
in preparation:

PHYSIOLOGY OF PLANTS. By J.C. ARTHUR, Purdue University.

BREEDING OF ANIMALS. By W.H. BREWER, of Yale University.

PLANT PATHOLOGY. By B.T. GALLOWAY and associates of U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Comprises practical hand-books for the horticulturist, explaining and illustrating in detail
the various important methods which experience has demonstrated to be the most satisfactory.
They may be called manuals of practice, and though all are prepared by Professor Bailey, of
Cornell University, they include the opinions and methods of successful specialists in many
lines, thus combining the results of the observations and experiences of numerous students
in this and other lands. They are written in the clear, strong, concise English and in the
entertaining style which characterize the author. The volumes are compact, uniform in style,
clearly printed, and illustrated as the subject demands. They are of convenient shape for the
pocket, and are substantially bound in flexible green cloth.

THE HORTICULTURIST'S RULE-BOOK. By L.H. Bailey. Fourth edition. 312 pp. 75 cts.

THE NURSERY-BOOK. By L.H. Bailey. Fourth edition. 365 pp. 152 illustrations. $1.00.

PLANT-BREEDING. By L.H. Bailey. 293 pp. 20 illustrations. $1.00.

THE FORCING-BOOK. By L.H. Bailey. 266 pp. 88 illustrations. $1.00.

GARDEN MAKING. By L.H. Bailey. Third edition. 417 pp. 256 illustrations. $1.00.

THE PRUNING-BOOK. By L.H. Bailey. Second edition. 545 pp. 331 illustrations. $1.50.

THE PRACTICAL GARDEN-BOOK. By C.E. Hunn and L.H. Bailey. 250 pp. Many marginal cuts. $1.00.

The Garden of a Commuter's Wife

Recorded by the Gardener

WITH EIGHT PHOTOGRAVURE ILLUSTRATIONS

Cloth 12mo $1.50

"In brief, the book is delightfully sketchy and chatty, thoroughly feminine and entrancing.
The writer represents herself as a doctor's daughter in a country town, who has married an
Englishman, and after two years abroad has come home to live. Both husband and wife prefer
the country to the city, and they make of their modest estate a mundane paradise of which it
is a privilege to have a glimpse. Surely it is no exaggeration to characterize this as one
of the very best books of the holiday season, thus far."--Providence Journal.

"It is written with charm, and is more than a mere treatise on what may be raised in the small
lot of the suburban resident.

"The author has not only learned to appreciate nature from intimate association, but has achieved
unusual power of communicating these facts to others. There is something unusually attractive
about the book."--The Philadelphia Inquirer.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Woman's Hardy Garden

By HELENA RUTHERFORD ELY

With many Illustrations from Photographs taken in the Author's Garden by Professor C.F. CHANDLER

Cloth 12MO $1.75 net

"It Is never for a moment vague or general, and Mrs. Ely is certainly inspiring and helpful
to the prospective gardener."--Boston Herald.

"Mrs. Ely gives copious details of the cost of plants, the exact dates of planting, the number
of plants required in a given space for beauty of effect and advantage to free growth, the
protection needed from sun and frost, the precautions to take against injury from insects,
the satisfaction to be expected from the different varieties of plants in the matter of luxuriant
bloom and length of time for blossoming, and much information to be appreciated only by those
who have raised a healthy garden by the slow teachings of personal experience."--New York Times
Saturday Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

66 Fifth Avenue, New York