The truth is, that the good and clever and polyphloisboic writers have too long monopolized
the attention of the world, so that the little, well-intentioned, humble, and stupid plebeians
of the guild have been snubbed out of sight. Somebody--the name is not given, but I shrewdly
suspect Canon Smith--wrote to Sir James Mackintosh,--"Why do you not write three volumes quarto?
You only want this to be called the greatest man of your time. People are all disposed to admit
anything we say of you, but I think it unsafe and indecent to put you so high without something
in quarto." This was, of course, half fun and half truth. As there is, however, little need
of setting the world on fire to demonstrate some chemical theory, so it is possible that the
flame of culture may be cherished without kindling a conflagration, and truth transmitted from
sire to son without the construction of edificial monsters too big for the knees, too abstruse
for the brains, and too great for the lifetime of humanity. I am not a very constant reader
of Mr. Robert Browning, but I own to many a pleasant grin over his Sibrandus Schafnabrugensis
dropped into the crevice of the plum-tree, and afterward pitifully reclaimed, and carried to
its snug niche with the promise,--

  "A.'s book shall prop you up, B.'s shall cover you,
  Here's C. to be grave with, or D. to be gay;
  And with E. on each side, and F. right over you,
  Dry-rot at ease till the Judgment Day!"

How often, when one is roving through a library in search of adventures, is he encountered
by some inflated champion of huge proportions, who turns out to be no better than a barber,
after all! The big, burly beggars! For a century nobody has read them, and therefore everybody
has admitted them to be great. They are bulky paradoxes, and find a good reputation in neglect,--as
some fools pass for philosophers by preserving a close mouth and a grave countenance.

"Safe in themselves, the ponderous works remain."

It was a keen sense of this disproportion between size and sense which barbed the sharpest
arrows of Dr. Swift. Nobody ever imposed upon him either by bigness or by bluster. "The Devil
take stupidity," once cried the Dean of St. Patrick's, "that it will not come in to supply
the want of philosophy!" So in the Introduction to "The Tale of a Tub," he, half in jest and
half in earnest, declares that "wisdom is like a cheese, whereof to a judicious taste the maggots
are the best." Vive la bagatelle! trembled upon his lips at the age of threescore; and he amused
himself with reading the most trifling books he could find, and writing upon the most trifling
subjects. Lord Bolingbroke wrote to him to beg him "to put on his philosophical spectacles,"
and wrote with but small success. Pope wrote to him, "to beg it of him, as a piece of mercy,
that he would not laugh at his gravity, but permit him to wear the beard of a philosopher until
he pulled it off and made a jest of it himself." Old Weymouth, in the latter part of Anne's
reign, said to him, in his lordly Latin, "Philosopha verba ignava opera," and Swift frequently
repeated the sarcasm. One cannot figure him as the "laughing old man" of Anacreon, for there
was certainly a dreadful dash of vinegar in his composition; but if he did not hate hard enough,
hit hard enough, and weigh men, motives, and books, nicely enough to satisfy Dr. Johnson, the
Bolt-Courtier must have been a very leech of verjuice. There is a passage in one of his letters
to Pope,--I cannot just now put my hand upon it,--in which he suggests, in rather coarse language,
the subject of "The Beggar's Opera" as a capital subject for their common friend, Gay. And
yet one can barely suppress a sigh at all this luxury of levity, when he remembers that dreadful
"Ubi saeva indignatio ulterius cor lacerare nequit," and reflects upon the hope deferred which
vented itself in that stinging couplet,--

"In every court the parallel will hold; And kings, like private folks, are bought and sold."

I remember a hack-writer,--and of such, I am afraid, is too exclusively my literary kingdom,--who
classified the vices which Swift smote so fearfully in "The Voyage to the Houyhnhnms"; and
the curious catalogue contained "avarice, fraud, cheating, violence, rapine, extortion, cruelty,
oppression, tyranny, rancor, envy, malice, detraction, hatred, revenge, murder, bribery, corruption,
pimping, lying, perjury, subornation, treachery, ingratitude, gaming, flattery, drunkenness,
gluttony, luxury, vanity, effeminacy, cowardice, pride, impudence, hypocrisy, infidelity, blasphemy,
idolatry, and innumerable other vices, many of them the notorious characteristics of the bulk
of humankind." Delightful catalogue! How odd, indeed, that a man with such work to do should
not have sported with Amaryllis, or played with the tangles of Neaera's hair,--should not have
worn well-anointed love-locks and snowy linen,--should, on the other hand, have bared his brawny
arm, and sent the hissing flail down swiftly upon the waled and blistered back of Sham! How
much better would it have been, if he had written a history, in twelve elephantine volumes,
of the rise, culmination, and decay of the Empire of Barataria, which we would have gone to
prison, the rack, and the drop, with rapture rather than read!

How low seems Fielding, with his pot-house heroes, Tom Jones, Squire Western, and Jonathan
Wild, when we contrast them with the elegant, cleanly-polished, and extremely proper Sir Charles
Grandison! What a coarse drab is Molly Seagrim, when juxtaposited with the princess of all
prudes, the indomitably virtuous Pamela! How childish was it of Cowper to sing of sofas, poultry,
rabbits, orchards, meadows, and barnyards! How much more nobly employed was John Dryden in
manufacturing a brand-new, truculent, loud-voiced, massively-calved, ensiferous Alexander!
Who but an addle-headed sot would have wandered up and down the lanes, like Morland, chalking
out pigs and milkmaids, when he might have been painting, like Barry, pictures, by the acre,
of gods and goddesses enacting incomprehensible allegories! Let us be respectable, O my Bobus,
and wear good coats and the best hats to be had for money or upon credit; let us carefully
conceal our connection with "The Gotham Revolver," although the honest people who print it
do give us our beer and mutton; let us write great histories which nobody will read, engage
in tractations to which nobody will listen, build twelve-storied epics which nobody will publish,
and invent Gordian philosophies which nobody can untie. Surely it is quite time for Minerva
to have a general house-cleaning, to put on a fresh smock, and to live cleanly. Rabelais shall
be washed, and Sterne sad-ironed into gravity; De Foe shall be made as decorous as a tract;
Mandeville shall be reburned, and we will kindle the fire with half the leaves of this dry
and yellow Montaigne. Nobody shall approach the waters of Castaly save upon stilts; and whoever
may giggle, as he takes his physic, shall be put upon a dreadfully plentiful allowance of Guieciardini
for bread, and of the poems of ----- ------- for water.

But, alas! Brother Bobus, where to begin our purification, and where to end it? We may, like
the curate in "Don Quixote," reprieve Amadis de Gaul, but shall we, therefore, make Esplandian,
"his lawful-begotten son," a foundation for the funeral-pile we are to set a-blazing presently?
To be sure, there is sense in the observation of the good and holy priest upon that memorable
occasion. "This," said the barber, "is Amadis of Greece; and it is my opinion that all those
upon this side are of the same family." "Then pitch them all into the yard," responded the
priest; "for, rather than miss the satisfaction of roasting Queen Pintiquiniestra and the pastorals
of Darinel the Shepherd and his damned unintelligible speculations, I would burn my own father
along with them, if I found him playing at knight-errantry." So into the yard went "Olivante
de Laura, the nonsensical old blockhead," "rough and dull Florismart of Hyrcania," "noble Don
Platir," with nothing in him "deserving a grain of pity," Bernardo del Carpio, and Roncesvalles,
and Palmerin de Oliva. What a delicious scene it is! The fussy barber, tired of reading titles
and proceeding to burn by wholesale, passing down books in armfuls to the eager housekeeper,
more ready to burn them than ever she had been to weave the finest lace. And how charming is
the hit of the Curate! "Certainly, these cannot be books of knight-errantry, they are too small;
you'll find they are only poets,"--the supplication of the niece that the singers should not
be spared, lest her uncle, when cured of his knight-errantry, should read them, become a shepherd,
and wander through forests and fields,--"nay, and what is more to be dreaded, turn poet, which
is said to be a disease absolutely incurable." So down went "the longer poems" of Diana de
Montemayor, the whole of Salmantino, with the Iberian Shepherd and the Nymphs of Henares. The
impatience of the curate, who, completely worn out, orders all the rest to be burned á canga
cerrada, fitly rounds the chapter, and sends us in good-humor from the auto da fé, while the
poor knight is in his bedchamber, all unconscious of the purification in progress, which, if
he had known it, mad as he was, would have made his madness starker still, thrashing about
with his sword, back-stroke and fore-stroke, and, as Motteux translates it, "making a heavy
bustle." 'Tis all droll enough; especially when we find that the housekeeper made such clean
work of it in the evening, in spite of the good curate's reservations, and burnt all the books,
not only those in the yard, but all those that were in the house; but I should think twice
before I let Freston the necromancer into any library with which I am acquainted.

Let us be gentle with the denizens of Fame's proud temple, no matter how they came there. You
remember, I suppose, Swift's couplet,--

  "Fame has but two gates,--a white and a black one;
  The worst they can say is I got in at the back one."

"I have nothing," wrote Pope to his friend Cromwell, "to say to you in this latter; but I was
resolved to write to tell you so. Why should not I content myself with so many great examples
of deep divines, profound casuists, grave philosophers, who have written, not letters only,
but whole tomes and voluminous treatises about nothing? Why should a fellow like me, who all
his life does nothing, be ashamed to write nothing, and that, too, to one who has nothing to
do but read it?" And so, with "ex nihilo nil fit," he laughingly ends his letter.

And now, while I am at it, I must quote a passage, somewhat germane, from the very next letter,
which Pope wrote to the same friend:--"You talk of fame and glory, and of the great men of
antiquity. Pray, tell me, what are all your great dead men, but so many living letters? What
a vast reward is here for all the ink wasted by writers and all the blood spilt by princes!
There was in old time one Severus, a Roman Emperor. I dare say you never called him by any
other name in your life; and yet in his days he was styled Lucius, Septimius, Severus, Pius,
Pertinax, Augustus, Parthicus, Adiabenicus, Arabicus, Maximus, and what not? What a prodigious
waste of letters has time made! What a number have here dropped off, and left the poor surviving
seven unattended! For my own part, four are all I have to take care of; and I'll be judged
by you, if any man could live in less compass. Well, for the future, I'll drown all high thoughts
in the Lethe of cowslip-wine; as for fame, renown, reputation, take 'em, critics! If ever I
seek for immortality here, may I be damn'd, for there's not much danger in a poet's being damn'd,--

  'Damnation follows death in other men,
  But your damn'd Poet lives and writes agen.'"

And so they do, even unto the present, otherwise blessed day. But, dear old friend, is not
this sublime sneering? and is there not an honest ray or two of truth mingled here and there
in the colder coruscations of this wit? Of the sincerity of this repudiation and renunciation
so fashionable in the Pope circle I have nothing to say; but in certain moods of the mind it
is vastly entertaining, and cures one's melancholy as cautery cures certain physical afflictions.
It may be amusing for you also to notice that Don Quixote's niece and Pope were of the same
mind. She called poetry "a catching and incurable disease," and Pope's unfortunate Poet "lives
and writes agen."

And, after all, Bobus, why should we not be tender with all the gentlemen who crowd the catalogues
and slumber upon the shelves? It may be all very well for you or me, whose legend should be

  "Prandeo, poto, cano, ludo, lego, coeno, quiesco,"

to laugh at them; but who shall say that they did not do their best, and, if they were stupid,
pavonian, arrogant, self-sufficient, and top-heavy, that they were not honestly so? I always
liked that boast of Flaccus about his "monument harder than brass." It is a cheerful sight
to see a poor devil of an author in his garret, snapping his fingers at the critics. "No beggar,"
wrote Pope, "is so poor but he can keep a cur, and no author so beggarly but he can keep a
critic." And, after all, abuse is pleasanter than contemptuous and silent neglect. I do honestly
believe, that, if it were not for a little too much false modesty, every author, and especially
the poets, would boldly and publicly anticipate posthumous fame. Do you think that Sir Thomas
Urquhart, when he wrote his "[Greek: EKSKUBALAURON], or, The Discovery of a most Precious Jewel,"
etc., fancied that the world would willingly let his reverberating words faint into whispers,
and, at last, into utter silence?--his "metonymical, ironical, metaphorical, and synecdochal
instruments of elocution, in all their several kinds, artificially affected, according to the
nature of the subject, with emphatical expressions in things of great concernment, with catachrestical
in matters of meaner moment; attended on each side respectively with an epiplectic and exegetic
modification, with hyperbolical, either epitatically or hypocoristically, as the purpose required
to be elated or extenuated, they qualifying metaphors, and accompanied with apostrophes; and,
lastly, with allegories of all sorts, whether apologal, affabulatory, parabolary, aenigmatic,
or paroemial"? Would you have thought that so much sesquipedality could die? Certainly the
Knight of Cromartie did not, and fully believing Posterity would feel an interest in himself
unaccorded to any one of his contemporaries, he kindly and prudently appended the pedigree
of the family of Urquharts, preserving every step from Adam to himself. This may have been
a vanity, but after all it was a good sturdy one, worthy of a gentleman who could not say "the
sun was setting," but who could and did say "our occidental rays of Phoebus were upon their
turning oriental to the other hemisphere of the terrestrial globe." Alas! poor Sir Thomas,
who must needs babble the foolish hopes which wiser men reticently keep cloistered in their
own bosoms! who confessed what every scribbler thinks, and so gets laughed at,--as wantons
are carried to the round-house for airing their incontinent phraseology in the street, while
Blowsalinda reads romances in her chamber without blushing. Modesty is very well; but, after
all, do not the least self-sufficient of us hope for something more than the dirty dollars,--for
kindness, affection, loving perusal, and fostering shelter, long after our brains have mouldered,
and the light of our eyes has been quenched, and our deft fingers have lost their cunning,
and the places that knew us have forgotten our mien and speech and port forever? Very, very
few of us can join in Sir Boyle Roche's blundering sneer at posterity, and with the hope of
immortality mingles a dread of utter oblivion here. Will it not be consoling, standing close
by the graves which have been prepared for us, to leave the world some little legacy of wisdom
sedulously gleaned from the fields of the fading past,--some intangible, but honest wealth,
the not altogether worthless accumulation of an humble, but earnest life,--something which
may lighten the load of a sad experience, illuminate the dark hours which as they have come
to all must come to all through all the ages, or at least divert without debauching the mind
of the idler, the trifler, and the macaroni? I believe this ingenuous feeling to be very far
removed from the wheezy aspirations of windy ignorance, or the spasms for fame which afflict
with colic the bowels, empty and flatulent, of sheer scribblers and dunces who take a mean
advantage of the invention of printing. Let us be tender of the honest gentlemen who, to quote
Cervantes, "aim at somewhat, but conclude nothing."

And while I am in a humor for quotation, I must give you this muscular verse from Henry More's
"Platonic Song of the Soul":--

  "Their rotten relics lurk close under ground;
  With living weight no sense or sympathy
  They have at all; nor hollow thundering sound
  Of roaring winds that cold mortality
  Can wake, ywrapt in sad Fatality:
  To horse's hoof that beats his grassie dore
  He answers not: the moon in silency
  Doth passe by night, and all bedew him o'er
  With her cold, humid rayes; but he feels not Heaven's power."

How we shiver in the icy, midnight moonbeams of the recluse of Christ's College! How preciously
golden seem the links of our universal brotherhood, when the Fates are waving their dark wings
around us, and menace us with their sundering! I am not sure, my worthy Wagonero, that, rather
than see my own little cord finally cut, I would not consent to be laughed at by a dozen generations,
in the hope that it might happen to me that the thirteenth, out of sheer weariness at the prolonged
lampooning, might grow pitiful at my purgatorial experiences, and so betake itself to nursing
and fondling me into repute, furnishing me with half-a-dozen of those lynx-eyed commentators
who would discern innumerable beauties and veracities through the calfskin walls of my beatified
bantling. They might find, at last, that I had "the gold-strung harp of Apollo" and played
a "most excellent diapason, celestial music of the spheres,"--hearing the harmony

  "As plainly as ever Pythagoras did,"

when "Venus the treble ran sweet division upon Saturn the bass."

Write for posterity! Pray, whom should we write for, in this age which makes its own epic upon
sounding anvils, and whose lyric is yelled from the locomotive running a muck through forest
and field and beside the waters no longer still? Write poetry now, when noise has become normal,
and we are like the Egyptians, who never heard the roaring of the fall of Nilus, because the
racket was so familiar to them! The age "capers in its own fee simple" and cries with the Host
in "The Merry Devil of Edmonton," "Away with punctilios and orthography!" Write poetry now!
Thank you, my ancient friend! "My fiddlestick cannot play without rosin." To be sure, I am,
like most minstrels, ready for an offer; and should any lover of melody propose

  "Two hundred crowns, and twenty pounds a year
  For three good lives,"

I should not be slow in responding, "Cargo! hai Trincalo!" and in presently getting into the
best possible trim and tune. But the poet may say now, with the Butler in the old play, "Mine
are precious cabinets, and must have precious jewels put into them; and I know you to be merchants
of stock-fish, dry meat, and not men for my market; then vanish!"

Barrow said that "poetry was a kind of ingenious nonsense"; and I think, that, deceived by
the glut, the present time is very much of Barrow's mind. But, courage, my music-making masters!
Your warbling, if it be of genuine quality, shall echo upon the other side of the hill which
hides the unborn years. Only be sure, the song be pure; and you may "give the fico to your
adversaries." You may live in the hearts and upon the lips of men and women yet unborn; and
should the worst come, you may figure in "The Bibliographer's Manual," with a star of honor
against your name, to indicate that you are exceedingly scarce and proportionally valuable;
rival collectors, with fury in their faces, will run you up to a fabulous price at the auction,
and you will at last be put into free quarters for life in some shady alcove upon some lofty
shelf, with unlimited rations of dust, as you glide into a vermiculate dotage. Why should you
be faint-hearted, when the men of the stalls ask such a breath-stretching price for the productions
of William Whitehead, Esq., who used to celebrate the birthdays of old George the Third after
this fashion:--

  "And shall the British lyre be mute,
  Nor thrill through all its trembling strings,
  With oaten reed and pastoral flute
  While every vale responsive rings?"

Ben Jonson called Inigo Jones Sir Lanthorn Leatherhead, but St. Paul's still stands; and how
many flies are there in the sparkling amber of "The Dunciad"! Have the critics, poor birdling,
torn your wings, and mocked at your recording? I know, as Howell wrote to "Father Ben," that
"the fangs of a bear and the tusks of a wild-boar don't bite worse and make deeper gashes than
a goose-quill sometimes; no, not the badger himself, who is said to be so tenacious of his
bite that he will not give over his hold until he feels his teeth meet and bone crack." I know
all about it, my minstrel boy! for have I not, in my day, given and taken, and shouldered back
again when I have been shouldered? Pray, do not finger your eyes any longer! Screw your lyre
up to concert pitch, and go on with your stridulous performances! Neither you nor I know how
bad may be the taste of our grandchildren, or how high you may stand when they have

  "Made prostitute and profligate the Muse."

If you cannot be a poet, be a poetaster; and if you cannot be that, be a poetess, or "she-poet,"
as Johnson, in his big dictionary, defines the word. So "gently take all that ungently comes,"
and hammer away as sedulously as old Boileau. Somebody will, undoubtedly, in the next age,
relish your rinsings. A poet, you know, is a prophet. Console yourself by vaticinating in the
bower of your bed-chamber, as you count the feet upon your fingers, your own immortality. If
'tis a delusion, 'tis a cheap one, to which even a poet can afford to treat himself. Play with
and humor your life, till you fall asleep, and then the care will be over! Meanwhile, you must
be more stupid than I think, if you cannot find somebody to give you your fodder of flattery.
You need not blush, for I know that you like it, and you need not be ashamed of liking it.
We all do,--we are all women in that regard; although the honestest man to confess it that
I ever heard of was Sir Godfrey Kneller, who said to Pope, when he was painting his picture,
"I can't do so well as I should do, unless you flatter me a little; pray, flatter me, Mr. Pope!
You know I love to be flattered."

You see, my excellent Robert, that, by some hocus-pocus which I do not exactly comprehend,
myself, I have introduced a wheel within a wheel, a letter within a letter, a play within a
play, after the manner of the old dramatists; and I beg you to make a note that the foregoing
admonitions and most sapient counsels are not addressed to you. You are something of a philosopher;
but you are not, like Mr. Stephen Duck, "something of a philosopher and something of a poet";
for I do not believe, O fortunate youth, that you ever invoked the ten ladies minus one in
your life; and I shrewdly suspect, that, so far from knowing the difference between a male
and a female rhyme, you are unfamiliar with the close family connection between "trees" and
"breeze," or between "love" and "dove." My episodical remarks are for the benefit of young
Dolce Pianissimo, who has taken, I am sorry to say, to gin, shirt-collars prodigious, and the
minor magazines, and whose friends are standing aghast and despairing at his lunacy. But, after
all, 'tis my best irony quite thrown away; for the foolish boy will believe me quite in earnest,
and will still be making love to that jade, Mistress Fame, although he knows well enough how
many she has jilted. But as he grows in stature, he may grow in sense. If you see him very
savagely cut up in "The Revolver," you will recognize the kindly hands which held the bistoury,
scalpel, and tenaculum, and the gentleman who wept while he wounded.

But I have long enough, I fear too long, tormented you with my drivel. It must be your consolation,
that, in spirit, you have been with me to-night, as I have thought of the old days, pausing
for a moment over these mute but eloquent companions, to dream or to sigh, and then once more
turning the old familiar pages as I try to forget, for just a little while, that dear familiar
face. If something of indifference has tinctured these hurried lines, if I have been unjust
in my estimate of the world's honors and the rewards of the Muses, you will forgive me, if
you will remember how the great Burke reduced the value of earthly honors and emoluments to
less than that of a peck of wheat. My fire is gone out. My candle is flickering in the socket.
There is light in the cold, gray East. Good-morning, Don Bob!--good-morning!

AFTER THE BALL.

  They sat and combed their beautiful hair,
  Their long, bright tresses, one by one,
  As they laughed and talked in the chamber there,
  After the revel was done.

  Idly they talked of waltz and quadrille,
  Idly they laughed, like other girls,
  Who over the fire, when all is still,
  Comb out their braids and curls.

  And Maud and Madge in robes of white,
  The prettiest night-gowns under the sun,
  Stockingless, slipperless, sit in the night,
  For the revel is done,--

  Sit and comb their beautiful hair,
  Those wonderful waves of brown and gold,
  Till the fire is out in the chamber there,
  And the little bare feet are cold.

  Flashing of jewels, and flutter of laces,
  Tropical odors sweeter than musk,
  Men and women with beautiful faces
  And eyes of tropical dusk,--

  And one face shining out like a star,
  One face haunting the dreams of each,
  And one voice, sweeter than others are,
  Breaking into silvery speech,--

  Telling, through lips of bearded bloom,
  An old, old story over again,
  As down the royal bannered room,
  To the golden gittern's strain,

  Two and two, they dreamily walk,
  While an unseen spirit walks beside,
  And, all unheard in the lovers' talk,
  He claimeth one for a bride.

  Oh, Maud and Madge, dream on together,
  With never a pang of jealous fear!
  For, ere the bitter St. Agnes weather
  Shall whiten another year,

  Robed for the bridal, and robed for the tomb,
  Braided brown hair, and golden tress,
  There'll be only one of you left for the bloom
  Of the bearded lips to press,--

  Only one for the bridal pearls,
  The robe of satin and Brussels lace,--
  Only one to blush through her curls
  At the sight of a lover's face.

  Oh, beautiful Madge, in your bridal white,
  For you the revel has just begun;
  But for her who sleeps in your arms to-night
  The revel of Life is done!

  But robed and crowned with your saintly bliss,
  Queen of heaven and bride of the sun,
  Oh, beautiful Maud, you'll never miss
  The kisses another hath won!

ROCK, TREE, AND MAN.

It is an interesting thought, that will occur to a contemplative mind, that the world contained,
from the time when it was a nebulous mass, all the materials of the future individuals of the
animate and inanimate creation,--that the elaborate creatures of the vegetable and animal kingdoms,
as well as every mineral, were floating in amorphous masses through space. Human beings, like
genius that was condensed from vapor at the rubbing of Aladdin's lamp, were diffused in gases,
waiting the touch of the Great Magician's wand to bring them into form and infuse them with
life. In all the distinct creations of God, from the time when the waters first subsided and
the dry land appeared, in everything organized and inorganized, earth, air, sea, and their
inhabitants, there is no element which was not in existence when the earth was without form
and void.

Philosophers tell us that three hundred and fifty millions of years elapsed after the globe
began to solidify, before it was fitted for the lowest plants. And more than one million years
more were necessary, after the first plants began to grow upon its young surface, to bring
it forward to the condition which the Divine Father deemed suitable for the reception of man.
If the days of Cain and Abel were the infancy of the world,--as we have sometimes heard,--when
will it come to maturity? Its divisions of life cannot follow the plan of animated beings;
for, with an embryonic condition of an indefinite period, and an infancy of three hundred and
fifty millions of years, more or less, we can hardly expect that it will really have begun
to enjoy the freedom of adult life, before the human race will have attained to its earthly
limit of perfectibility, or have so overstocked the surface of the globe as to make it necessary
to remove to some larger sphere.

It is curious, we say, to think that everything now on the earth or composing its substance
was present, though in far different form, at the beginning,--that the Almighty gathered together
in this part of the universe all the materials out of which to create all the forms of things
which it was his pleasure to evolve here through all time,--that in that nebulous mass were
revolving, not only the gases which were at last to combine in various manners and proportions
to form the rocky crust and the watery investment of the earth, but that in that dense and
noisome cloud floated also the elements of all the beautiful objects that furnish the daily
enchantments of life. Flowers and trees, birds and fishes, locusts and mastodons, all things,
from the tiniest animalcule to man, were there, unmodelled, not even in embryo,--their separate
existences then only in the mind of God. There, Christian and Saracen, Jew and Gentile, Caucasian
and Negro, Hindoo and Pariah, all the now heterogeneous natures which are as oil and water,
were blended in one common vapor.

Finally the condensation of all the gaseous elements began, and the aëriform masses became
liquid, and the waters,--what mineral waters they were, when they were saturated with granite
and marble, diamonds, rubies, arsenic, and iron!--thus deposited by the vapor, left a gas above
them light enough to bear some faint resemblance to our air. Still this atmosphere was surcharged
with vapors which no lungs could tolerate, whether of man or reptile; and other steps must
be taken to clear it of its unwholesome properties. Then did the Almighty will introduce, one
after another, the germs of plants,--first of all, the lower orders, the ferns, which seek
the shade, and the lichens, which grow in damp and dark recesses, mosses, which cling to bare
rocks, living almost on air and water alone,--everything which needed not bright sunlight to
invigorate it nor soil to cling to. Year by year and age by age did these humble plants extract
their nourishment from the murky vapors that shrouded the earth, and, after fashioning those
gases into a living tissue of stems and leaves, year after year did they die and lay their
remains upon the rocks, accumulating by slow steps a soil which would in time be capable of
giving holding-ground to mightier plants. The trees came,--and gigantic they must have been;
and every species of tree, shrub, and herb now upon the earth, and of all animals that walk,
fly, or swim, was introduced before the creation of man.

It was as if the elements were too gross for the constitution of man, when they were first
collected from the nebulous mass,--as if they needed to go through the intermediate forms of
plants and animals, passing in succession from one to another, before they could be permitted
to enter into the bodies of those beings who were to be in God's likeness. But, in very truth,
the elements were unaltered by their many transmigrations. It was the divine act of God which
caused every plant to spring forth and gave birth to every living thing. Every seed and every
egg was at the first formed by Him. No sudden effort of man's will, such as that by which Pygmalion
was believed to have animated the work of his chisel, nor any industrious current of electricity,
passed for uninterrupted weeks through the purest gum, and stimulated by the enthusiasm of
a Cross, can transform the worm to a breathing being, or reach the human climax by slow steps,
even if the first one be in the humble form of a louse. When a new plant appeared, it was the
hand of God that formed the seed. When a new species of animal came upon the earth, it was
the same Power that created it. But the materials were not new; "out of the dust of the earth"
was man created.

Oxygen, Hydrogen, Carbon, and Nitrogen,--do not turn away from us, gentle reader, we will not
be grimly scientific, but a few of the terms of science must be employed, even here,--these
four elements are the chief ingredients of all vegetable and animal structures. When separated
from their connections, three of them are gases; and the fourth, in union with one of the others,
is also a gas. In various combinations they form literally the dust of the earth, they make
rock and water, vapor and air. In the hand of the Almighty, they are so many plastic elements,
that form now a plant of the lowliest condition, now a magnificent oak, now a fish, and now
a man. And the germ of each organized being bequeathes to its offspring the power to reproduce
its likeness,--so that each succeeding generation is a repetition of its predecessor. There
is no change in plants and animals from the first; the same materials in the same proportions
that were selected by the earliest trees for their composition are chosen now; and in form
and function the last animal is a precise copy of the first of his race.

If we attempt to trace a particle of matter, we shall find its wanderings endless. Annihilation
is a term which is not applicable to material things. Matter is never destroyed; it rarely
rests. Oxygen, for instance, the most important constituent of our atmosphere, is the combining
element of all things, the medium of communication between the kingdoms of Nature, the agent
of the interchanges that are continually taking place among all created things. Oxygen keeps
life in man, by combining with his blood at every inhalation; it is absorbed by flowers, to
be employed in the perfection of the fruit; many minerals are incapable of the various uses
of society, until oxygen has attacked and united with them. It gives us lime and soda, the
oil of vitriol, and common salt; the mineral pigments in common use are impossible without
it; and the beautiful colors of our autumn leaves are due to the combination of oxygen with
their juices. It enters into all plans and operations with a helping hand; animals and plants
owe their lives to it; but when the shadow of death begins to fall upon them, it is as ready
to aid in their destruction. Like calumny, which blackens whatsoever is suspected, oxygen pounces
upon the failing and completes their ruin. The processes of fermentation and putrefaction cannot
commence in any substance, until it has first taken oxygen into combination. Thus, cans of
meat, hermetically sealed, with all the air first carefully expelled, undergo no change so
long as the air does not get access to them. If the minutest opening remain, the oxygen of
the atmosphere combines with the contents of the can, and fermentation or putrefaction follows.
Rust, which takes the keen edge from the knife, is only another name for oxydation: keep the
knife bright, and no oxygen dares touch it; but the slightest blemish is made a loophole for
the entrance of the ever-watchful enemy, who never again leaves it until its destruction is
complete.

All the elements have a great love of society; they cannot live alone; they have their likes
and their dislikes; they contract alliances which endure for a time, but are dissolved in favor
of stronger attractions.

We have mentioned the names of several natural elements. Let us see what they are, and what
they have to do with man and the kingdoms of Nature. Beginning with man, let us see what becomes
of him in course of time, what physical metamorphoses he undergoes, to what vile but excellent
uses he is put.

That which forms the bone and muscle of a man this year may be upon his own table in the shape
of potatoes or peaches one summer later. When Hamlet talked of turning the clay of Alexander
into the bung of a beer-barrel, he spoke the simple truth. In that great play, Shakspeare appears
to have had the transformations of material things much in his mind; for we find him alluding,
in several passages, to the reciprocity which subsists between the elements of animate and
inanimate things, and between the different members of the same kingdom;--as when, in conversation
with the king about the dead Polonius, he makes Hamlet say, "A man may fish with the worm that
hath eat of a king, and eat the fish that hath fed of the worm"; or where, over the grave of
Ophelia, he traces the two ancient heroes back to their mother earth, in words some of which
we have quoted.

The ancient mythology, which shadowed forth some truth in all its fables, turned these facts
of Nature to its purpose. The gods of Greece, when they saw fit to remove a human being from
life, sometimes reproduced him in another form of beauty, without any intermediate stages of
decay. Apollo seemed to have a particular fancy for planting the boys and girls whom he had
loved where he might enjoy their fragrant society. Thus, a boy named Cyparissus, who had the
misfortune to kill a favorite deer, was so unwilling to be consoled, that he besought Apollo
to make his mourning perpetual; and the kind god changed him into a cypress, which is still
a funereal tree. The modest virgin Daphne, who succeeded in escaping the violence of his passion,
was transformed into a laurel, which is ever green and pure. And the sweet youth Hyacinthus,
beloved of Apollo, being accidentally killed by a quoit which the god of day was throwing,
that divinity, in his grief, caused those sweet flowers which bear his name to spring from
his blood, where it fell upon the ground. It is only in the annihilation of the intervals of
time between different forms of existence that these old metamorphoses, which Ovid relates,
are fabulous. If our readers will bear us company a few steps, through ways which shall have
diversions enough to forbid weariness, we will endeavor to satisfy them that these apparent
fables are very near to every-day truths. We must begin with some plain statements.

The air which we expel from the lungs at every breath has a large proportion of carbonic acid.
Let a man be shut up in an air-tight room for a day, and he will have changed nearly all the
oxygen in it into this carbonic acid, and rendered it unfit for animal life. Dogs, cats, and
birds would die in it. But, poisonous as it is to man and other animals, it is a feast to plants.
They want it all day and every day; not in the night,--at that time they have a taste for oxygen.
This effete air, which men and animals exhale, so charged with carbonic acid, the plants drink
in through every pore. They take it from the mouth of man, appropriate it to their daily uses,
and in time render it back to him mingled with other ingredients in wholesome fruit. Carbonic
acid is death when it combines with the blood,--as it does when we inhale it; but not so when
it enters the stomach in small quantities. One inspiration of it is enough to make us dizzy,--as
when we enter an old well or stoop over a charcoal fire; but a draught of water fully charged
with it is exhilarating and refreshing, as we know by repeated experiences at marble fountains
that meet us on so many city-corners.

If plants had souls, they would be pure ones, since they can bear such contamination and not
be harmed,--nay, since even from such foul food as we give them they can evolve results so
beautiful. We give them our cast-off and worn-out materials, and they return us the most beautiful
flowers and the most luscious fruits.

Beside carbonic acid, there are two other principal materials, which are every day passing
off in an effete state, though capable of being transferred to the uses of plants. But when
an animal dies, the whole substance is then at Nature's disposal. We must set aside a great
deal of it for the ants and flies, who will help themselves in spite of us. If any one has
never seen a carcass rapidly disappearing under the steady operations of the larvae of the
flesh-fly, he has yet to learn why some flies were made. The ants, too, carry it off in loads
larger, if not heavier, than themselves. But carcasses of animals may go to decay, undisturbed
by the ravages of these useful insects. That is, the limited partnership of Oxygen, Hydrogen,
& Co., under which they agreed to carry on the operations of sheep, fox, or fish, having terminated
by the death of the animal, the partners make immediate use of their liberty and go off in
inorganic form in search of new engagements, leaving sulphur, phosphorus, and the other subordinate
elements of the animal, to shift for themselves. They were in the employ of a sheep; they will
now carry on a man or an oak-tree, a colony of insects, or something else. Under the form of
carbonate of ammonia, the four elements diffuse themselves through the air, or are absorbed
by the earth, and offer themselves at once to the roots and leaves of the trees, as ready to
go on with their vivifying operations as they were in behalf of the animals. There are some
plants which seem not to be left to the chances of securing their nourishment from the carbonate
of ammonia that the air and the soil contain, but are contrived so as to entrap living animals
and hold them fast while they undergo decomposition, so that all their gases may be absorbed
by them alone. Thus, "the little Sundew exudes a gluey secretion from the surface of its leaves,
which serves to attract and retain insects, the decay of whose bodies seems to contribute to
its existence." And the Dionaea, or Venus's Fly-trap of the Southern States, has some leaves
which fold together upon any insect that alights upon their upper surface; and by means of
a row of long spines that fringes the leaves, they prevent his escape. The more active the
struggles of the captive, the closer grows the hold of the leaf, and speedily destroys him.
The plant appears to derive nutriment from the decomposition of its victims. "Plants of this
kind, which have been kept in hot-houses in England, from which insects were carefully excluded,
have been observed to languish, but were restored by placing little bits of meat upon their
traps,--the decay of these seeming to answer the same purpose."

The four elements already referred to are by no means all the material ingredients of animal
bodies. There are, also, phosphorus, lime, magnesia, soda, sulphur, chlorine, and iron; and
if you believe some chemists, there is hardly a mineral in common use that may not be found
in the human body. We doubt, however, whether lead, arsenic, and silver are there, without
the intervention of the doctor.

What becomes of the phosphorus and the rest, when an animal dies? Oh, they take up new business,
too. They are as indispensable to the animal frame as the four most prominent ingredients.
We eat a great deal of bread and meat, and a little salt,--but the little salt is as important
to continued life as the large bread. There is hardly a tissue in the body from which phosphorus,
in combination with lime, is absent; so that the composition of lucifer-matches is by no means
the most important use of this element. The luminous appearance which some putrefying substances,
particularly fish, present at night, is due to the slow combustion of phosphorus which takes
place as this element escapes into the air from the decomposing tissues.

The necessity for the steady supply of phosphorus and lime to the body is the cause of the
popularity of Mapes's superphosphate of lime as a manure. The farmers who buy it, perhaps,
do not know that their bones and other parts are made of it, and that this is the reason they
must furnish it to their land; for between the land and the farmer's bones are two or three
other factories that require the same material. All the farmer knows is, that his grass and
his corn grow better for the superphosphate. But what he has not thought of we will tell you,--that
man finds his phosphate of lime in the milk and meat of the cow, and she finds her supply in
the grass and corn, which look to the farmer to see that their stock of this useful mineral
compound does not fall short. Thus in milk and meat and corn, which constitute so large a part
of our diet, we have always our phosphate of lime. There are many other sources whence we can
derive it, but these will do for the present. And thus, when an animal dies and has no further
use for his phosphate of lime, it is washed into the soil around, after decomposition of the
body has set it free, and goes to make new grass and corn. Bone-earth (pounded bones) is a
common top-dressing for grass-lands.

A small proportion of sulphur is found in flesh and blood. We prove its presence in the egg
by common experience. An egg--from which it escapes more easily than from flesh--discovers
its presence by blackening silver, as every housekeeper knows, whose social position is too
high for bone egg-spoons or too low for gold ones. This passion which sulphur entertains for
silver is very strong, as every one knows who has ever been under that wholesome discipline
which had its weekly recurrence at the delightful institution of Dotheboy's Hall; and what
Anglo-Saxon ever grew up, innocent of that delectable vernal medicine to which we refer? Has
he not found all the silver change in his pocket grow black, suggesting very unpleasant suspicions
of bogus coin? The sulphur, being more than is wanted in the economy of the system, has made
its escape through every pore in his skin, and, of course, fraternizes with the silver on its
way. But it was of the sulphur which is natural to the body and always found there that we
were speaking. When the animal dies, and the vital forces give way to chemical affinities,
when the phosphorus and the rest take their departure, the sulphur, too, finds itself occupation
in new fields of duty.

Chlorine and sodium, two more of the elements of animal structures, produce, in combination,
common salt,--without which our food would be so insipid, that we have the best evidence of
its being a necessary article of diet. The body has many uses for salt. It is found in the
tears, as we are informed by poets, who talk of "briny drops" and "saut, saut tears"; though
why there, unless to keep the lachrymal fluid from spoiling, in those persons who bottle up
their tears for a long time, we cannot divine.

Perhaps we had better take the rest into consideration together,--the magnesia and iron, and
whatever other elements are found in the body. Though some of them are there in minute quantities,
the structure cannot exist without them,--and for their constant and sufficient supply our
food must provide.

To see what becomes of all these materials after we have done with them, we must extend our
inquiries among the articles of ordinary diet and ascertain from what sources we derive the
several elements.

It has been sometimes believed that none but animal food contains all the elements required
for the support of life. Thanks to Liebig, we have discovered that vegetable substances also,
fruits, grains, and roots, contain them all, and, in most cases, in very nearly the same proportions
as they are found in animals. We are not lecturing on dietetics; therefore we will not pause
to explain why, although either bread or meat alone contains the various materials for flesh
and bone, it is better to combine them than to endeavor to subsist on one only.

Whither, then, go these elements when man has done with them? The answer is,--All Nature wants
them. Every plant is ready to drink them up, as soon as they have taken forms which bring them
within its reach. As gases, they are inhaled by the leaves, or, dissolved in water, they are
drunk up by the roots. All plants have not the same appetites, and therefore they can make
an amicable division of the supply. Grasses and grains want a large proportion of phosphate
of lime, which they convert into husks. Peas and beans have little use for nitrogen, and resign
it to others. Cabbages, cauliflowers, turnips, and celery appropriate a large share of the sulphur.

The food of plants and that of animals have this great difference: plants take their nourishment
in inorganic form only; animals require to have their food in organic form. That is, all the
various minerals, singly or combined, which compose the tissues of plants and animals,--carbon,
hydrogen, phosphorus, and the rest, which we have already named,--are taken up by plants in
mineral form alone. The food of animals, on the other hand, consists always of organized forms.
There is no artificial process by which oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen can be brought into a
form suitable for the nourishment of animals. As oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen, they are not
food, will not sustain our life, and human art cannot imitate their nutritious combinations.
Artificial fibrine and gluten (organic principles) transcend our power of contrivance as far
as the philosopher's stone eluded the grasp of the alchemists. We know exactly how many equivalents
of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen enter into the composition of each of the animal
elements; but we can no more imitate an organic element than we can form a leaf. What we cannot
do the vegetable world does for us. Thus we see why it was necessary that the earth should
be clothed with vegetation before animals could be introduced. A field-mouse dies and decays,
and its elements are appropriated by the roots around its grave; and we can easily imagine
the next generations of mice, the children and grandchildren of the deceased rodent, feasting
off the tender bark which was made out of the remains of their parent. The soil of our gardens
and the atmosphere above it are full of potential tomatoes, beans, corn, potatoes, and cabbages,--even
of peaches of the finest flavor, and grapes whose aroma is transporting.

Plants, as well as animals, have their peculiar tastes. Cut off the supply of phosphate of
lime from a field of corn, and it will not grow. You can easily do this by planting the same
land with corn for three or four successive years, and your crop will dwindle away to nothing,
unless you supply the ground every year with as much of the mineral as the corn takes away
from it. All plants have the power of selecting from the soil the materials necessary to their
growth; and if they do not find them in the soil, they will not grow. It is now a familiar
fact, that, when an old forest of deciduous trees has been felled, evergreens will spring up
in their places. The old oaks, hickories, and beeches, as any observer would discover, pass
their last years in repose, simply putting out their leaves and bearing a little fruit every
year, but making hardly any new wood. An oak may attain to nearly its full size, in spread
of branches, in its first two hundred years, and live for five or six hundred years longer
in a state of comparative rest. It seems to grow no more, simply because it has exhausted too
much of the material for its nourishment from the ground around its roots. At least, we know,
that, when we have cut it down, not oaks, but pines, will germinate in the same soil,--pines,
which, having other necessities and taking somewhat different food, find a supply in the ground,
untouched by their predecessor. Hence the rotation of crops, so much talked of by agriculturists.
Before the subject was so well understood, the ground was allowed to lie fallow for a year
or two, when the crops began to grow small, that it might recover from the air the elements
it had lost. We now adopt the principle of rotation, and plant beans this year where last year
we put corn.

It is not merely that plants deprive themselves of their future support by exhausting the neighboring
earth of the elements they require. Some of them put into the ground substances which are poisonous
to themselves or other plants. Thus, beans and peas pour out from their roots a very notable
amount of a certain gum which is not at all suited to their own nourishment,--so that, if we
plant beans in the same spot several successive seasons, they thrive very poorly. But this
gum appears to be exactly the food for corn; if, therefore, we raise crops of beans and corn
alternately, they assist each other. Liebig gives the results of a series of experiments illustrating
the reciprocal actions of different species of plants. Various seeds were sprouted in water,
in order to observe the nature of the excretions from their roots. It was found "that the water
in which plants of the family of the Leguminosae (beans and peas) grew acquired a brown color,
from the substance which exuded from their roots. Plants of the same species, placed in water
impregnated with these excrements, were impeded in their growth, and faded prematurely; whilst,
on the contrary, corn-plants grew vigorously in it, and the color of the water diminished sensibly,
so that it appeared as if a certain quantity of the excrements of the Leguminosae had really
been absorbed by the corn-plants." The oak, which is the great laboratory of tannin, not only
lays up stores of it in its bark and leaves, but its roots discharge into the ground enough
of it to tan the rootlets of all plants that venture to put down their suction-hose into the
same region, and their spongioles are so effectually closed by this process, that they can
no longer perform their office, and the plant that bears them dies. Plants whose roots ramify
among the roots of poppies become unwilling opium-eaters, from the exudation of this narcotic
principle into the ground, and are stunted, like the children of Gin Lane.

The Aquarium furnishes a very interesting example of the mutual dependence of the three natural
kingdoms. Here, in a box holding a few gallons of water and a little atmospheric air, is a
miniature world, secluded, and supplying its own wants. Its success depends on the number and
character of the animals and plants being so adapted as to secure just the requisite amount
of active growth to each to sustain the life of the other: that the plants should be sufficient
to support, by the superfluities of their growth, the vegetarians among the animated tribes
that surround them; and that all the animal tribes of the aquarium, whether subsisting upon
the vegetables or on their smaller and weaker fellow-creatures, should restore to the water
in excrements the mineral substances which will enable the plants to make good the daily loss
occasioned by the depredations of the sea-rovers that live upon them. Thus an aquarium, its
constituents once correctly adjusted, has all the requisites for perpetuity; or rather, the
only obstacle to its unlimited continuance is, that it is a mortal, and not a Divine hand,
that controls its light and heat.

In the examination of the materials appropriated by plants from the soil, we find that mineral
substances are sometimes taken up in solution in larger amount than the growth of the plant
and the maturation of its fruit require, and the excess is deposited again, in crystalline
form in the substance of the plant. If we cut across a stalk of the garden rhubarb, we can
see, with the aid of a microscope, the fine needle-shaped crystals of oxalate of potash lying
among the fibres of the plant,--a provision for an extra supply of the oxalic acid which is
the source of the intense sourness of this vegetable. When the sap of the sugar-maple is boiled
down to the consistence of syrup and allowed to stand, it sometimes deposits a considerable
amount of sand; indeed, this is probably always present in some degree, and justifies, perhaps,
the occasional complaint of the grittiness of maple-sugar. But it is a native grit, and not
chargeable upon the sugar-makers. It is nothing less than flint, which the roots of the maple
absorbed, while it was dissolved in water in the soil. The sap, still holding the flint in
solution, flows out, clear as water, when the tree is tapped; but when it is concentrated by
boiling, the silicious mineral is deposited in little crystals, so that the bottom of the pan
appears to be covered with sand. We could not select a more interesting example of the very
wide diffusion of some compound substances than this one of silicic acid. It is found in the
mineral and vegetable kingdoms. Being a mineral, it cannot be appropriated to animal uses,
without being decomposed and transformed into an organic condition; but in the numerous species
of plants whose stalks require stiffening against the winds,--in the grasses and canes, including
all our grains, the sugar-cane, and the bamboo,--a silicate (an actual flint) is taken up by
the roots and stored away in the stalks as a stiffener. The rough, sharp edge of a blade of
grass sometimes makes an ugly cut on one's finger by means of the flint it contains. Silex
is the chief ingredient in quartz rock, which is so widely diffused over the earth, and enters
into the composition of most of the precious stones. The ruby, the emerald, the topaz, the
amethyst, chalcedony, carnelian, jasper, agate, and garnet, and all the beautiful varieties
of rock crystal, are mostly or entirely silex. Glass is a compound of silex and pearlash. One
who is curious in such things may make glass out of a straw, by burning it and heating the
ashes with a blowpipe. A little globule of pure glass will form as the ashes are consumed.
The following curious instance, quoted by that interesting physiologist, Dr. Carpenter, shows
the same effect upon a large scale. A melted mass of glassy substance was found on a meadow
between Mannheim and Heidelberg, in Germany, after a thunder-storm. It was, at first, supposed
to be a meteor; but, when chemically examined, it proved to consist of silex, combined with
potash,--in the form in which it exists in grasses; and, upon further inquiry, it was ascertained
that a stack of hay had stood upon the spot, of which nothing remained but the ashes, the whole
having been ignited by the lightning.

There is nothing in Nature more striking to the novice than the first suggestions of the various,
and apparently contradictory, at least unexpected, positions in which the same mineral is found.
Now carbon is one of the minerals whose exchanges are peculiarly interesting. Chemists say
that the diamond is the only instance in Nature of pure carbon: it burns in oxygen under the
influence of intense heat, and leaves no ashes. Next to this--strange gradation!--is charcoal,
which comes within a very little of being a diamond. But just that little interval is apparently
so great, that none but a chemist would suspect there was any relationship between them. Then
come all those immense beds of coal which compose one of the geological strata of the earth's
crust, a stratum that was formed before the appearance of the animated creation, when the earth
was clothed with a gigantic forest, whose mighty trunks buried themselves with their fallen
leaves, and became, in time, a continuous bed of carbonaceous stone.

If we look at the vegetable and animal kingdoms, we find carbon entering into the composition
of every tissue. But there are certain tissues and anatomical elements (as physicians say)
which are formed largely of carbon and have no nitrogen whatever. These are oils and fats and
everything related to them. What will be chiefly interesting, however, to our readers, is the
power of transformation of one of these substances into another. Starch, gum, and sugar can
all be changed into fat. The explanation of it is in the fact, that these substances are all
chemically alike,--that is, they all have nearly the same proportions of carbon, oxygen, and
hydrogen, and no nitrogen; but by slight differences in the combination of these elements,
they exist in Nature as so many distinct substances. Their approach to identity is further
confirmed by the fact, that starch can be made into gum, and either of them into sugar, in
the laboratory. The transformation of starch and gum into sugar is also constantly going on
in the ripening of fruits. When country-dames make currant-jellies and currant-wine, they know
very well, that, if they allow the berries to get dead-ripe, their jelly will not be so firm
as when they seize an early opportunity and gather them when first fully red. They may also
have observed that jelly made late, besides being less firm, is much more likely to candy.
At first, the currants contain hardly any sugar, but more gum and vegetable jelly (glue); when
dead-ripe, they have twelve times as much sugar as at first, and the gum and glue are much
diminished. The gummy and gluey materials have been transformed into sugar. Every ripe fruit
gives us evidence of the same manufacture of sugar that has gone on under the stimulus of the
sun's rays; and in the greatest source of sugar, the cane, the process is the same. A French
physician, M. Bernard, has, within the last twelve years, discovered that the liver of animals
is constantly making sugar out of all kinds of food, while the lungs are all the time undoing
the work of the liver and turning it back into its chemical elements. And although, in the
laboratory of the liver, it is discovered that no alimentary substance is quite deficient in
sweetness, yet there, as elsewhere, starch and gum yield a far greater amount of it than animal
substances.

We have stated that starch and gum can be turned into sugar by art,--but as no chemist has
yet succeeded in imitating an animal substance, the change of these three into fat takes place
only in the body. There are proofs enough within general observation, that one object of this
portion of our diet is the supply of fat. The Esquimaux fattens on his diet of blubber and
train-oil; the slaves on the sugar-plantations grow fat in the boiling-season, when they live
heartily on sugar; the Chinese grow fat on an exclusively rice diet,--and rice is chiefly starch.
But one of the most interesting observations of the transformation of sugar into a fat is that
made by Huber upon bees. It was the discovery, that bees make their wax out of honey, and not
of pollen, as was formerly believed. When Huber shut up some bees in a close hive, and kept
them supplied with pure honey or with sugar alone, they subsisted upon it, and soon began to
build the comb. Wax is a fat, and the honey which is eaten by the bee is partly transformed
into wax in his body. In about twenty-four hours after his stomach has been filled with honey,
thin plates of wax appear on the scales of his abdomen, having oozed through eight little openings
in the scales and there hardened. Of this they build their cells.

We have wandered far from the consideration of the propensity of certain species of plants
to take up special compound substances from the earth; but the wide-spread silex, with which
we set out, displayed so interesting a field of observation, that it could not be resisted,
and encouraged a disposition to rove, which has been to us instructive and entertaining. To
return to plants,--we find they make use of compounds for certain special ends; but, as we
have seen, the whole vegetable kingdom uses the eight or ten primitive elements which it has
in common with the animals, and out of these alone forms the infinite variety of products which
we derive from it for food and various economical and aesthetical purposes. Among the many
processes of Nature whose contemplation fills us with ever new delight, this power of the adaptation
of a few means to an infinite number of ends is one of the most enchanting. We endeavor to
explain by chemical laws the reduction of the materials which earth and air furnish, to a form
in which they can be appropriated by the tree; by endosmose and exosmose we think we have overcome
the obstacles to a clear comprehension of the circulation of the sap; and by a cell-theory
we believe we have explained the whole growth of wood and leaves and fruit. But what microscope
or what alembic shall ever tell us why a collection of tubes and cells in one tree creates
the most wholesome and delicious fruit, while in another an organization precisely similar,
so far as we can discern, produces only harsh and poisonous berries? why the acacia tribe elaborate
their gum, the pine family turpentine, the almond prussic acid, the sorrels oxalic acid? why
the tall calisaya-tree of the Andes deposits in its bark the valuable medicine cinchona, and
the oak, the hemlock, the tea-plant, and many others, make use of similar repositories to lay
up stores of tannic acid? The numberless combinations of the same materials, and the wonderful
power which rests in a single seed to bring about with unvarying uniformity its own distinct
result, attest to us every day the admirable wisdom and goodness of the Creator.

These regular, every-day transformations of material elements from rock to tree, from tree
to man, and back through a continual circuit, would repay us for spending our leisure hours
in studying it, with our own eyes as well as with the eyes of others. The glance we have given
is sufficiently suggestive to turn the attention of our readers that way. Before parting with
them, however, we wish to make a few excursions into the natural world, to follow out some
of the more peculiar and unexpected migrations of material atoms. Suppose we take a little
marble,--which, in chemical constitution, is carbonate of lime,--that very marble, for instance,
which forms the palaces of Venice, against which the waters of the Mediterranean have dashed
for so many centuries, and have not dashed in vain. In their perpetual washing, they have worn
away the stone and carried off its particles,--an insignificant amount, it is true, but, little
as it is, it has not remained unused. For that very carbonate of lime, which once shared the
proud state of the "glorious city in the sea," now helps to form the coarse shells of oysters,
or is embodied in the vast coral reefs that shoot out from the islands of the West Indies,
or is deposited year after year by dying shell-fish, which are slowly carpeting the ocean-bed
with their remains. Much of this same Venice marble has doubtless been appropriated by fishes
from the sea-water which dissolved it, been transformed into their bones, cast upon the soil
of Italy, disintegrated, and imbibed by the thirsty roots of forests in sight of the very walls
from which it parted. And who can say that parts of it do not now adorn the necks of some Venetian
dames, in coral, or more costly pearls? What says Ariel to the orphaned Ferdinand?

This is but a hint of the mutability of created things. Marble, sea-shells, the chalk-cliffs
of Dover, the limestone fossils which preserve for us animal forms of species long since extinct,
the coral formations that are stretching out in dangerous reefs in so many seas of the tropics,
are all identical in their chief ingredient, and, as we see, are by natural processes and various
accidents constantly interchanging their positions.

It ought to be consoling to those who think a great deal of their bodies, to reflect, that,
if we may tend "to base uses," we may also tend to very noble ones. In the course of their
transmigrations, the elements of a worthless individual may get into far better company than
they have before enjoyed,--may enter into brains that immortalize their owner and redeem the
errors of the old possessor. Whoever bases his merit on a long line of ancestors who have nothing
but a perpetuated name to boast of, may be likened to the last of many successive tenants of
a house who have hired it for their temporary uses. The inheritance of a brave spirit and a
noble mind is a sufficient justification for a reasonable pride; but not so with the heritage
of materials which are continually interchanging with the clod.

There need be nothing humiliating in such thoughts; the operations of Nature are always admirable.
But when the relics of humanity are deliberately appropriated to such mechanical or scientific
purposes as we shall relate, before they have entirely lost their original (we should say latest)
form, then most men would look upon the act as in some sort a desecration. With what holy horror
would the ancient Egyptians regard the economical uses to which their embalmed bodies were
appropriated a few centuries ago! In the words of Ambrose Paré, the great surgeon of five French
kings in the sixteenth century, is a full account of the preparation and administration of
"mummie,"--that is, Egyptian mummies, powdered and made into pills and potions,--"to such as
have falne from high places or have beene otherwise bruised." The learned physician enters
his protest against the use of it, (which he says is almost universal with the faculty,) as
quite inefficacious and disgusting. His disgust, however, arises principally from the fact
that the "mummie" prepared by the apothecaries must have been derived "from the carcases of
the basest people of Egypt; for the nobelmen and cheefe of the province, so religiously addicted
to the monuments of their ancestors, would never suffer the bodyes of their friends and kindred
to be transported hither for filthy gaine and detested use."

If such traffic be base, what shall we say of some priests of Nicaragua, who renovate their
burial-grounds by exhuming the bones of the dead, with the earth that surrounds them, and selling
the mass to the manufacturers of nitre? No sentiment of reverence for the sepulchres of their
fathers incites them to resist the inroads of foreign pirates,--for they manufacture their
fathers' bones into gunpowder.

Let us turn away from the revolting picture. The glimpses of Nature's revolutions which we
have enjoyed are more agreeable. We are no advocates for any attempts of preserving the human
body from decomposition; that which will restore the beloved forms of friends most readily
to their primitive elements, and avert the possibility of anything so dear remaining to excite
our aversion or disgust, or becoming a pestilential agent, we would cordially encourage. There
can be no doubt that use would soon render cremation as little disagreeable to the feelings
as consigning the precious remains to slow decay and food for worms; and few will long be pained
at the thought of mingling at once with the common earth and air, and returning to usefulness
in other forms, after the soul has passed to heavenly spheres to enjoy the blessings of immortal
life.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHIP DARTMOUTH.

It is wonderful how Nature provides for the taking off and keeping down of her monsters,--creatures
that carry things only by force or fraud: your foxes, wolves, and bears; your anacondas, tigers,
and lions; and your cunning or ferocious men of prey, of whom they are the types. Storms may
and must now and then rage and ravage, volcanoes must have their destructive fits, and the
darkness must do its mean and tyrannical things while men are asleep; but calmness and sunshine
triumph immeasurably on the whole. Of the cubs of iniquity, only here and there an individual
escapes the crebrous perils of adolescence, develops into the full beast, and occupies a sublime
place in history; whereas the genial men of sunshine, plenty as the fair days of summer, pass
quietly over from the ruby of life's morning to the sapphire of its evening, too numerous to
be written of or distinctly remembered. There are, it is quite true, enough biographies of
such in existence to read the world to sleep by for ages. It can hardly keep awake at all,
except over lives of the other sort; hence, one of great and successful villany is a prize
for the scribe. In the dearth of such, let us content ourselves with briefly noticing one of
the multitude of abortive cubs, its villany nipped--as Nature is wont to nip it--in the promising
bud of its tenderness. Many a flourishing young rogue suddenly disappears, and the world never
knows how or why. But it shall know, if it will heed our one-story tale, how Chip Dartmouth
of these parts was turned down here,--albeit we cannot at present say whether he has since
turned up elsewhere.

Our hero was baptized simply Chipworth, in compliment to a rich uncle, who was expected on
that account to remember him more largely in his will,--as he probably did; for he soon left
him a legacy of twenty thousand dollars, on the express condition that it should accumulate
till he was of age, and then be used as a capital to set the young man up in business. As the
inheritance of kingdoms spoils kings, so this little fortune, though Chip could not finger
a mill of it during his minority, all the while acted on him like a controlling magnet, inducing
a strong repellency to good advice and a general exaltation of views, so that, when he came
into possession of it, he was already a fast young man in almost every respect. He had settled
it as the maxim of his life to gain fast and spend fast; and having had considerable opportunity
to spend before he had any to gain, he had on becoming a business man, some secret deficits
to make good before he could really be as rich as people supposed him. As his deficits had
not been made by daylight, so daylight must have nothing to do in wiping them out; and hence
darkness became more congenial than its reverse to all his plans, and he studied, as he thought,
with singular success, the various tricks of blinding people to the state of his finances,
as well as of bettering it. While he was supposed to be growing rich very rapidly, he really
was doing so about half as fast as everybody thought. Chip would not steal,--that was vulgar.
But he would take every possible advantage of other people by keeping close his own counsels
and pumping out theirs. He would slander a piece of property and then buy it. He would monopolize
on a short market, and fill his purse by forestalling. Indeed, he was, altogether, one of the
keen, and greatly admired in business circles.

It was not easy for Chip to love any being but himself,--not even a woman. But his smart figure,
for which Nature and the tailors had done their best, set the general female imagination into
the most lively action. Many were the dreams about him,--day-dreams and night-dreams,--that
were dreamed in front of all manner of little filigree bird nest bonnets and under snowy nightcaps;
and at the slightest encouragement on his part, no doubt, the idea of himself which had been
manufactured in many minds would have been fallen in love with. The reality certainly would
not have been. Miss Millicent Hopkins wore one of the caps set for Chip, and her he professed
vehemently to love. But she was the daughter of a millionnaire of a very set temper, who had
often said and sworn that his daughter should not have any man who had not proved by more than
mushroom or retail success in business that he was able and likely to better her fortune. Miss
Millicent must plainly either be run away with, or fairly won on old Hopkins's plan of wholesale,
long-winded business success. Miss Millicent's good looks, if they did not amount to beauty,
did, nevertheless, add something to the attractiveness of her vast pecuniary prospects. Chip
had obtained the young lady's decided favor without absolutely crossing the Rubicon himself,
for he had no notion of taking her without any of the funds her father had to bestow. It was
arranged between them that his paternal consent should be asked, and the die or live of matrimony
should depend on that. But, with confidence, or what is sometimes called brass, enough to put
any sort of question, it was impossible for Chip Dartmouth to state the case to old Mr. Hopkins
as it was. Having obtained a private interview, he grasped the old gentleman by the hand with
an air as familiar as it was apparently cordial.

"Ah! I am very glad to see you, Mr. Hopkins, for I have been thinking what a fool I must be
not to pay my addresses to Miss Millicent; and I can take no steps, you know, without your
consent."

"You can take none with it, Sir," was the emphatic reply of the severe parent, with a sort
of annihilating look. "I admire your prudence and frankness, my young friend; but, till you
show yourself a merchant, of my own sort, I beg you will excuse me and my family from any of
the steps you contemplate. Good-morning, Sir,--good-morning!"

The showing-out was irresistible, leaving nothing more to be said.

Chip now resolved that he would double his diligence in making money, out of spite to the father,
if not love for the daughter. The old fogy's wealth he would have at any rate, and Millicent
with it, if possible, as a sort of bonus. So, obtaining an interview with his fair intended
and intending, at the earliest moment, without revealing a hint of his own diplomatic blunder,
he told her that her father had refused his consent to their union because his fortune was
not sufficient, and she must not expect to see him again till it was so, which he fancied would
be in a much shorter time than the old gentleman supposed.

Chip had not long to wait for a chance to strike the first blow in carrying out his new resolution
of fast trading. The day after his memorable rebuff, he was sitting in the choky little counting-room
of a crammed commission-warehouse in India Street, musing and mousing over the various schemes
that occurred to his fertile brain for increasing the profits of his business. He had already
bought cotton pretty largely on speculation. Should he monopolize further, make a grand rush
in stocks, or join the church and get large trust-funds into his hands on the strength of his
reputation for piety? All these and a hundred other questions were getting rapidly and shrewdly
discussed in his mind, when a rather stubbed man, with a square, homely face and vinegar expression,
opened, or partly opened, the little glass door of the counting-room, and, looking round it
more greedily than hopefully, said,--

"You don't want the cargo of the 'Orion' at a bargain?"

"Can't say I do. But walk in, Captain Grant,--walk in!"

Captain Grant did walk in, though he said it was no use talking, if Chip didn't want the cotton.
Chip saw instinctively, in the sad, acid look of his visitor, that he was anxious to sell,
and could be made to take a despondent view of the market. Taking him by the button, he said,
rather patronizingly,--

"I know, Captain, you ship-owners want to keep your ships at work at something besides storage.
But look there," pointing to the bales of cotton filling the immense floor; "multiply that
pile by four and add the basements of two churches, and you see a reason why I should not buy
above the level of the market. Now, taking that into consideration, what do you ask for your
two hundred and fifty bales in the 'Orion?'"

"Seven cents."

"I know somebody who would feel rich, if he could sell at that," returned Chip, with a queer
grin. "No, no, Captain Grant, that won't do at all. Prices are sinking. If I should buy at
that figure, every sign of margin would fade out in a fortnight. I haven't five bales that
have been bought at any such price."

It was true, he had not; for they had been bought at seven-and-a-half and eight.

"Well, I will say six-and-a-half at sixty days, to you," said the humiliated Grant.

"My dear Sir," replied Chip, "you don't begin to tempt me. I must burn all my foreign correspondence
and forget the facts before I can begin to look at anything beyond six cents and ninety days."

"Ninety days won't do," said Mr. Grant, tersely. "If we must sacrifice, it must be for something
a bank will look at, Mr. Dartmouth. But I want the ship cleared, and if you will say six at
two months for the whole, it's a bargain, bad as it is for me."

"Not a bargain for me to be in a hurry about; but I'll think of it. Hold on till to-morrow.
But, on the whole, you needn't do that. It wouldn't be an object."

"But I will do it, if you say so, till noon to-morrow."

"Better say five-and-three-fourths and have it done to-day," said Chip, "for I may not give
that to-morrow. But if you hold on, and I buy anything at six, it shall be your lot."

Captain Grant, beginning to believe that he should, after all, sell a little above the bottom
of the market, took his leave for his home among the Waltham hills, a little less grouty than
when he entered.

That same night, Chip, after having dropped in at numerous resorts of the fast men, in most
of which somewhat of his conscience, such as it was, dropped out, was proceeding homeward through
Devonshire Street, with the brightest of his wits still about him. It was a raw night, one
of the rawest ever got up by a belated equinoctial, with almost nothing stirring in the streets
but the wind, and the loose shutters and old remnants of summer awnings left to its tender
mercies. Aeolus, with these simple instruments of sound, added to the many sharp corners of
city architecture, managed to get up something of a symphony, enough almost to make up for
the nocturnal cats, now retired to silence and the snuggest attainable quarters. The hour was
one of the short ones ayont the twal, and sleep reigned everywhere except in the daily-newspaper-offices
and in the most fashionable of the grog-shops. Besides Chip, the only living thing in Devonshire
Street was a thinly-clad stripling, with a little roll of yellowish tissue-paper in his hand,
knocking and shaking feebly at a door which grimly refused to open. His powers of endurance
were evidently giving way, and his grief had become both vocal and fluent in the channel of
his infant years.

"What's the matter, my boy?" asked Chip,--"locked out, hey?"

"No,--bo-hoo. No, Sir, the door's blowed to and froze up, and I can't git this pos'crip' up
to the office."

"Oh, oh! you're the telegraph-boy, are you?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Most froz'n, aren't you?"

"O-oo-oo, that I be, Sir."

Here a very bright idea struck Chip, and he inquired,--

"Is this all that's coming?"

"Boo-hoo. Yes, Sir. They've sent good-night once before, and this is the pos'crip'. The wires
is shut off now, and some of the papers is shut off, too; for I've been to three before this,
and can't git into nary one on 'em."

"Never mind, my poor fellow; I belong up here. I'll take the sheets and send 'em round to all
the other papers that are open. Never mind; you take that, and go right home to your mother."

"Thank you, Sir," said the shivering lad, and, giving up the yellow roll and taking the loose
coppers offered him in the quickest possible time, he scampered off around the corner of Water
Street and left Chip in company with two temptations.

"Now," thought Chip, "it will be certainly a clean and gentlemanly thing, if, after having
relieved this poor little devil of his trouble and responsibility, I should oblige the still
poorer devil of a concern up-stairs by giving 'em this postcript of foreign news, which, by
working so late, they will probably have exclusively. That would be most truly honest, benevolent,
and philanthropic. It would make at least one newspaper my friend, and, on the whole, it is
something of a temptation. But let me see what it will cost."

Giving the black door a vigorous push, he entered, and by the gas-burner on the first landing
discovered that the postcript in his possession gave the state of the Liverpool cotton-market
a day later than the body of the dispatch, which had already gone into type, and, what was
more to the purpose, announced a rise of a penny-and-a-half on the pound. Chip clutched the
gauzy sheets in his fist, closed the door as softly as possible, and yielded himself a doomed
captive to temptation number two. Here was a little fortune on the cotton he had in store at
any rate, and, if he really had in his grasp all the news of the rise, he might make by it
a plump ten thousand dollars out of Captain Grant's "Orion." But to this end he must be sure
that not a lisp of the rise would be published in the morning papers, and he must see Captain
Grant and close his bargain for the "Orion's" cargo before the wires should begin to furnish
additional news by the "Africa" to the evening papers. They would not, after obtaining such
news, lose a moment in parading it on their bulletin-boards, and Captain Grant might get hold
of it before reaching the little counting-room in India Street. Chip, of course, saw what to
do, and did it. Waiting in one of the little "meals-at-all-hours" saloons till he heard the
churning of the press-engines, he sallied out and bought of the overloaded carriers the earliest
copies of the morning papers, and made himself sure that the foreign news did not disclose
any change of the cotton-market. The next thing was to transfer himself to Captain Grant's
residence in Waltham,--exactly whereabout in Waltham he did not know, but, of course, he could
easily find out,--and, without exciting the grouty old salt's suspicions of false play, make
sure of the cotton at his own price. On the whole, he thought it safer, as well as cheaper,
to use the early train than to hire a special team.

Arrived in Waltham, to his great vexation, it appeared, after much inquiry, that Captain Grant
lived full three miles from the station,--and what was worse, every omnibus, hack, buggy, and
dog-cart was engaged for a muster in one direction or a cattle-show in another. Nothing on
wheels could be hired at any price,--at least, none could be found in an hour's search from
one hotel or livery-stable to another. Chip, whose sleepless night and meditated fraud had
not left much of the saint in him, swore the whole of Waltham as deep as the grimmest view
of predestination would allow. And he restrained himself from being still more profane only
lest his wrath should awaken inconvenient suspicions. After all, there was one old tavern a
little way out, where possibly a one-horse affair could be raised. The Birch House was a sort
of seedy, dried-up, quiet, out-of-the-way inn, whose sign-post stood forth like a window without
sash, the rectangular ligneous picture of a man driving cattle to Brighton having long ago
been blown out of its lofty setting and split to pieces by the fall. What was the use of replacing
it? No one was likely to call, who did not already know that the Widow Birch still kept tavern
there, and just how she kept it. It was doubtful if a new sign would attract a single new customer.
Indeed, since the advent of railroads, a customer was not a common occurrence any way, though
there still remained a few that could be depended on, like the Canada geese, in their season,
and their custom was handsomely profitable. The house, a white wooden one, with greenish blinds,
had two low stories, the first of which was nearly level with the ground. There was a broad,
low entry running through the middle, and on either side two rather spacious square rooms.
One of those in front had a well-sanded, well-worn pine floor, with a very thirsty-looking
counter across one corner, supporting a sort of palisade that appeared to fortify nothing at
all,--a place, however, which had evidently been moist enough in the olden times. In the other
front room was a neat carpet, plain, old-fashioned furniture, and a delightful little plantation
of fresh and cozy flower-pots, surrounding a vase full of gold-fishes, and overhung by a bright-eyed,
mellow-throated canary, the whole of that paradise being doubtless under the watch and care
of little Laura Birch. This was the ladies' parlor,--the grand reception-room, also, of any
genteel male guest, should one for a wonder appear. Little Laura, however, was no longer as
little as she had been,--though just as innocent, and ten times as bewitching to most people
who knew her. You could not but particularly wish her well, the moment her glad, hopeful, playful,
confiding, half-roguish eye met yours. With the most conscientious resolution to make herself
useful, under her mother's thrifty administration, in the long, clean New England kitchen which
stretched away behind the square dining-room, interposed between it and the dry bar-room, she
had a taste for books and a passion for flowers, which absorbed most of her thoughts, and gained
her more chidings from her mother for their untimely manifestations than her handiest services
gained thanks or any signs of grateful recognition. She and the flowers, including the bird
and the fishes, seemed to belong to the same sisterhood. She had copied their fashion of dress
and behavior, rather than the Parisian or any imported style,--and so her art, being all learned
from Nature, was quite natural. On the very morning in question, she was engaged in giving
this little conservatory the benefit of her thorough skill and affectionate regard, when good
Dame Birch broke in upon her with,--

"Why, Laury, what are you thinking about? It's always just so. Here is a gentleman in the bar-room,
and he's a'most sure to order breakfast, and them eels isn't touched, and not a thing ready
but cold victuals and pie. Them eels would be so nice and genteel! and you know they won't keep."

"But you didn't tell me to fry them now, mother," said Laura.

"But I told you to fix 'em all ready to fry."

"Well, mother," replied Laura, "I'll come as soon as these things are set to rights. It won't
do to leave them just so."

"Well, it's always just so," said the maternal Birch. "I must do it myself, I see. Don't be
all day, Laury,--now don't!"

She disappeared, muttering something about "them plaguy flower-pots."

In point of fact, Chip Dartmouth was all this while in the aforesaid dry bar-room, engaged
in an earnest colloquy with Frank Birch, a grown-up son of the landlady, a youth just entered
on the independent platform of twenty-one, Laura being three years younger. Chip had arrived
rather out of breath and excited, having got decidedly ahead of the amenities that would have
been particularly expedient under the circumstances. Approaching a door of the bar-room, which
opened near its corner towards the barn, and which stood open at the time, he descried Frank
within busily engaged mending harness.

"Hallo! young man, I say, hurry up that job, for I've no time to lose."

"Well, I'm glad on't," retorted Frank, hardly looking up from his work, "for I ha'n't."

"Look here!" said Chip, entering, "you're the man I've been looking for. I must have a ride
to Captain Grant's, straight off, at your own price."

"Maybe you must, but I'm goin' to the Concord cattle-show, and Captain Grant's is four miles
out of the way. I can't think of goin' round, for I shall be too late, any way."

"Never mind that, my young friend, if you 'r' 'n such a hurry, put on the string and look to
me for the damage."

"Maybe you can't pay it," replied Frank, looking rather scornful.

"The Devil!" exclaimed Chip, "are all the Waltham people born idiots?"

"No! some of 'em are born governors," said Frank, "and Boston people may find it out one of
these days."

On this, Landlady Birch intervened, taking the bar-room in her way from the parlor to the kitchen.

"What is that you say, Frank? The gentleman can have as good a breakfast here as he can have
anywhere out of Boston, I'm sure, though I say it myself. We don't have so many to cook for,
and so, perhaps, we take a little more pains, Sir,--ha! ha!"

And with that good Mrs. Birch put on a graciousness of smile worthy of the most experienced
female Boniface in Anglo-Saxondom.

"The gentleman don't want any breakfast, mother; he only wants a ride round to Captain Grant's,
and he ha'n't got the manners to ask for it, like a gentleman;--he must have it. I say he mus'n't
in my buggy, for I a'n't goin' that way."

"Why, son, the gentleman of course expects to pay for it."

"Yes, Madam," said Chip, "I am willing and expect to bleed freely."

Frank. "Well, I should like to know what you mean by that? I don't want your blood, or that
of any other Boston squirt."

Mrs. Birch (to Chip, after a reproving glance at Frank). "I think we can accommodate you, Sir.
The buggy is at the blacksmith's, and will be done in half-an-hour. If you want, you can have
breakfast while you are waiting; and you will find a comfortable fire in the parlor to sit
by, at any rate."

With this, Mrs. Birch made her exit, to hurry matters on the cook-stove.

"There! that's her, all over!" grumbled Frank. "If she can sell a meal of victuals, she don't
care what becomes of me. But I'll let her know the mare's mine, and the buggy's mine, all but
the harness; and I tell you, Sir, I'll see the mare drowned in Charles River and the buggy
split into kindling-wood, before you shall have a ride to Captain Grant's this day."

"But here's a five-dollar-bill," quoth Chip, displaying a small handful of banknotes.

Frank. "You may go to thunder with the whole of 'em! I tell you I've set my foot down, and
I won't take it up for my own mother,--and I'm sure I won't for anything that ever was or will
be under your clo'es."

With this, he jerked up the harness and went off to the barn, with an air that convinced Chip
that the controversy between mother and son was not likely to be decided in his favor at a
sufficiently early hour to answer his purpose. But where else should he go, or what else should
he do? As he was a little more inclined now to bet on calmness than on passion, he decided
to take a seat in the parlor, and keep it, at least, till he could dispose of his present doubt.
Easily might he have measured three miles over the Waltham hills, in the bracing morning-air,
with his own locomotive apparatus, while he had been looking in vain for artificial conveyance.
But if that plan had occurred to him at all at first, it would have been dismissed with contempt
as unbusinesslike. He must not, by any possibility, appear to Captain Grant to be so madly
anxious to close the bargain. He did a little regret neglecting the service of his own proper
pegs, but it was now entirely too late to walk, and he must ride, and at a good pace, too,
or lose the entire benefit of the news which the lightning had so singularly confided to his
honest hands. The feeling with which he flung himself into that quiet, little, economical parlor
was, probably, even more desperate than Richard's, when he offered his kingdom for a horse.
It was, in fact, just the feeling, of all others in the world, to prevent a man's getting a
horse. Had he carried it into a pasture full of horses, it would have prevented him from catching
the tamest of them. But the good influences of the Universe, that encourage and strengthen
the noble martyrs of truth and workers of good in their arduous labors, do sometimes also help
on villains to their bad ends. Never were troubled waters more quickly smoothed with oil, never
were the poles of a magnet more quickly reversed, than Chip's rage and rancor abated after
he entered that door. Not that he relaxed his purpose at all, or felt any essential change
of his nature, but his temper was instantly turned the right side up for success. He was, of
course, unconscious of the cause,--for it is certainly nothing wonderful, even in the neighborhood
of Boston, to see a neat Yankee lass, in her second or third best dress, putting things to
rights of a morning, with a snowy handkerchief over her head, its corners drawn into a half-knot
under her sweet chin, and some little ruddy outposts on her cheeks, ready, on the slightest
occasion, to arouse a whole army of blushes. Laura had just given the finishing touch to her
flower culture, changed the water of her fishes, replenished the seed-bucket of the canary,
and was about leaving the room. Almost any man would have been glad of an excuse to speak to
her. Chip could have made an excuse, if one had not been ready-made, that was to him very important,
as well as satisfactory.

"Miss Birch, I presume?"

"Yes, Sir," said Laura, with a curtsy, not quite so large as those that grow in dancing schools,
but, nevertheless, very pretty.

"Well, Miss Birch," said Chip, blandly advancing and taking her nice little hand, half covered
with her working-mitts,--whereat the aforesaid outposts promptly did their duty,--"or shall
I call you Miss Susan Birch?"

"No, Sir, my name is Laura," said the girl, shrinking a little from a contact which rather
took her by surprise.

"Oh, Laura!--that is better yet," proceeded Chip. "Now, Miss Laura, I have got myself into
a terrible scrape; can you help me out of it?"

"I can't tell, indeed, Sir, till I know what it is," said Laura, with a bright twinkle of reassurance.

"Well, it is this:--I have mortally offended your brother,--for so I take him to be by his
looks,--and I most sincerely repent it, for he owns the only team left in Waltham. If I cannot
hire that team for an hour, I lose money enough to buy this house twice over. I want you to
reconcile us. Will you offer my apology and prevail on him to take this and be my coachman
for an hour?" asked Chip,--slipping a gold eagle into her hand with the most winning expression
at his command.

"Oh, yes, Sir,--I'm sure I'll try without that, Sir. He will be glad to oblige you, when he
knows how you need it," she said, offering to return the coin.

"No, no, Miss Laura, I want to pay him well; and if you succeed,--why, no money can pay you,
Miss Laura; I don't profess to be rich enough to do it."

Here the outposts gave another alarm, and again the hosts of the ruby uniform were gathering
hurriedly in their two muster-fields.

"Why, I will go and try, Sir," said Laura, so much confused by the novelty and magnitude of
the circumstances that she opened the closet-door before opening the only one that led out
of the room.

Fairly out of Chip's presence, she saw instantly and instinctively the worthlessness of that
gold eagle, however genuine, compared with her sisterly love, in her mission to Frank. So she
ran directly to her mother in the long kitchen, and, planking the American eagle upon the sloppy
little table where the eels were rapidly getting dressed, said,--

"Why, mother, that gentleman wants to hire Frank to carry him to Captain Grant's, and I'm sure
he ought to go without hiring. I'll go right out and see him."

"That's right, Laury; tell him he ought to be ashamed of himself!"

"Oh, no, mother, I won't tell him any such thing," said Laura, laughingly, as she hopped and
skipped towards the barn.

"Well, Frank, how's Nell Gwyn, this morning?" cheerily cried Laura to Frank, who seemed to
be getting his harness into a worse snarl, in his grouty attempts to get it out of one.

"The mare's well enough, if she hadn't been insulted."

"Why, that's abominable, Frank! But let me get that snarl out."

"You get it out! You get out yourself, Laule."

"Why, that's all I'm good for, Frank; I always pick out the snarls in the house, you know,
and I should like to try it once in the barn."

"The tarnal old thing's bewitched, I believe," said Frank, allowing his sister to interfere
and quietly untwist and turn right side out the various parts which he had put wrong by all
sorts of torsion. "I'll teach Boston chaps to know that there are some things they can't have
for money! When Nell and I have agreed to have a good time, we a'n't goin' to be ordered off
nor bought off;--we'll have it."

"So I say, Frank. But suppose I wanted you to give me a ride, Frank?"

"Why, Laule, you know I would go to the North Pole with you. If Mam would only let you go to
Concord with me, I'd wait till noon for you."

"Well, maybe she will, Frank. She wants you to carry that man to Captain Grant's bad enough
to let me go in the afternoon."

"But I told him I wouldn't carry him,--and, gol darn it, I won't!"

"Of course you won't carry him on his own account, or for the sake of his money,--but for my
sake perhaps you will."

"Well, Sis, perhaps I will. But, mind, before I do, Mam shall promise, sartin sure, to let
you go by half-past twelve o'clock, and not a minit later."

"Well, I'll see she does; you harness Nell, and get the buggy. The man says he's sorry he spoke
to you so. If he's carried to Captain Grant's and back, I'll answer for it's being the best
for all of us."

She was off to the house like a bird, and the rest of her diplomacy was too simple and straightforward
to need special record.

As the buggy was at the door before the table presented the savory temptation of fried eels,
Chip declined breakfast at present, but decidedly promised to take it on his return. He dropped
in on Captain Grant, as he was careful to tell that gentleman, having had business in Waltham
that morning, and thinking he might perhaps save him a journey to town. The ship-owner had
just finished the news of the morning papers, for which he had sent a messenger express to
the post-office, and said, after the cordial salutation which a rough sort of man always gives
in his own house,--

"Well, Mr. Dartmouth, I see the market is as close-reefed as ever. Maybe you think I will sell
at five and three-fourths to-day, but I've concluded to make a floating warehouse of the 'Orion'
for the winter, rather than do that."

"I don't blame you for that, my friend; but in the present state of advices, six at two months
is the highest mill that will do. If you will close the 'Orion's' cargo at that, I am your man."

"What I've said, I'll do, Sir, of course," said the tough old salt; "and since you've taken
the trouble to come out here and save my lame toes, let's nail the bargain with a bottle of
my old Madeira,--some of the ripest this side of the herring-pond, I'll be bound."

"Not a drop, I thank you; for, besides being a teetotaller, Captain, I'm behind time to-day,
and must bid you good-morning."

"Well, Sir, I'm much obliged to you; the bill of sale shall be at your counting-room directly;
the clerk will receive the notes and deliver the cotton. Good-morning, Sir,--good-morning!"

In truth, Chip had not the slightest objection to wine, as wine, even had it not been the ripest
on this continent; but, like any other mitigated villain, he did not quite relish taking wine
with the man he was basely cheating. He would much rather partake of Ma'am Birch's fried eels
and coffee, especially if Laura Birch should, peradventure, be the Hebe of such an ambrosial
entertainment. She was not, however,--and the disappointment considerably overclouded the commercial
victory of the morning. Madam Birch herself did the honors of whatever sort, while Chip played
a fantasia solo at the table d'hôte. The good lady enlarged volubly on her destitution of help,
and how, if she had any such as we get now-a-days, they were more plague than profit,--how
Laura was getting ready to go with Frank to the cattle-show, and she herself was likely to
be the only living mortal in the house for the rest of the day.

"Such a son as you have is a fortune, Madam; and as for the daughter, she is a gem, a genuine
diamond, Madam."

"Ha! ha! do you really think so, Sir?" said the mother, evidently gratified with the superlativeness
of the compliment. "Well, they do say children are jewels.--but I've found, Sir, they are pretty
troublesome and pretty costly jewels. Mine, as you say, are very good children,--though Frank
is pretty wilful, and Laury is always gettin' her head above the clouds. Oh, dear! they want
a great deal done for 'em,--and the more you do, the more you may do. Frank is bewitched to
sell out and go to Kansas or Californy, or, if he stays here, he must go to college or be a
merchant. And Laury, even she isn't contented; she wants to be some sort of artist, make statters
or picters,--or be a milliner, at least. So you see I haven't a minute's peace of my life with
'em."

Of course Chip saw it, and the more's the pity.

"All the better, Madam," said he. "Young America must go ahead. There's nothing to be had without
venturing. If I can ever be of service to either of your children in forwarding their laudable
ambition, I am sure it will give me the greatest pleasure."

"You are very kind, Sir, but I only wish you could persuade 'em to let well alone, and at least
not try the world till they know more of it."

"Not touch the water till they have learned to swim, eh? That's not quite so easy, Madam. Never
fear; I'll be bound, a boy that can say No like yours is perfectly safe anywhere; and as to
Laura, why, Madam, I never heard of an angel getting into difficulty in the wickedest of worlds."

"Our old minister, Parson Usher that was, used to say some of the Bible angels fell,--and I
am sure, Sir, the human angels have a worse chance. They are about the only ones that run any
risk at all."

"True, true enough, Ma'am, in one point of view. Too much care cannot be taken to select the
society in which young people are to move. In the right society, such a girl as Laura would
win homage on every side, and make herself happy by making everybody else so."

"I believe you are right there, Sir," said Mrs. Birch, quite charmed with such beautiful appreciation
of what she felt to be Laura's excellence; "and I don't wonder sometimes that she should be
discontented with the society she has here, poor girl!"

"When you see the sun begin to shine in the morning, you may be sure enough it will keep rising
all the forenoon," said Chip, with the air of a great moral philosopher, conscious of having
made a decided impression. And suddenly recollecting how valuable was his time in town, and
that the train would be due in five minutes, he swallowed the last of his coffee, paid his
bill, told the landlady how happy he was to have made her acquaintance and that of her interesting
family, promised he would never stop in Waltham without calling, and strode away.

The lightning flashed from a good many eyes in the telegraph-office when the morning members
of the associated press inquired why they had not been served with the latest news,--why, in
fact, the only item of any significance was reserved for the evening papers of the day. Not
a press of all the indignant complainants was ready to admit that it had locked up its forms
and gone to bed before the wires had completed their task. Very bitter paragraphs testified,
the next day, that, in the opinion of many sage and respectable editors, the wires had been
tampered with by speculators. The poor little half-frozen telegraph-boy was closely catechized,
first by the officers of the telegraph-company, and afterwards by certain shrewd detectives,
but no clue could be got to the fine gentleman who so generously relieved him of his responsibility,
and no result followed, except his dismissal and the employment of another lad of more ability
and probably less innocence. Captain Grant was the man most likely to have come to a discovery
in the matter, and most heartily did he curse his luck--his "usual luck"--of giving away a
fortune by selling a cargo a day too soon. But being kept at home by uncomfortable toes, no
suspicious mortal, such as abound in the lounging-rooms of insurance-offices and other resorts
of business-men in town, happened ingeniously to put his suspicions on a scent, and he did
not come within a league of the thought that Chip Dartmouth could have had anything to do with
the strange and blamable conduct of the wires. As he made no proclamation of his loss, and
no other case of sale during the abeyance of the news came to the knowledge of the parties
interested, the matter, greatly to Chip's comfort, fell into entire oblivion before a fortnight
had passed. The understanding was, that, though great mischief might have been done, none had
been,--and that somebody had simply made waste-paper of the little yellow thunderbolt-scrawls.

For the first fortnight, Chip's nervousness, not to say conscience, very much abated the pleasure
of the many congratulations he received from his friends, and from hundreds of people whom
he had never before known as his friends. He couldn't get through the streets any day without
meeting the solidest sort of men, with whom he had never exchanged a word in his life, but
whose faces were as familiar as that of the Old-South clock, who took him by the hand quite
warmly, and said,--

"Ah, Mr. Dartmouth, permit me to congratulate you on your good-fortune. You have well deserved
it. I like to see a young man like you make such a ten-strike, especially when it comes in
consequence of careful study of the market."

The truth was, Chip had been playing a pretty hazardous game in the cotton-market, chiefly
at the risk of other parties; and the slice he had so feloniously carved out of poor Captain
Grant was quite small compared with the gains he had managed to secure by thus venturing a
little of his own and a great deal of other people's money. The shrewd minds in the secrets
of the business world were not slow to see that he must have realized at least a hundred thousand
units of commercial omnipotence by the operations of the first week after the rise. Everybody
was glad of an opportunity to speak to such a man. Even Mr. Hopkins, immensely retired as he
was, driving into State Street about noon one genial day to receive a bank dividend or two,
stepped considerably out of his way, in walking from his low-hung turnout to the door of one
of the banks, in order to catch Mr. Dartmouth's notice, and say to him, "Good-morning, Mr.
Dartmouth! I hope you are very well, Sir!" Chip recognized the salutation with a superb nod,
but without the accompaniment of any verbal rhetoric which was audible above the buzz of the
pavement; and the retired millionnaire passed on about his business.

"Ah!" thought Chip, "I am getting to be a merchant of the right sort, I see,--and by the time
he is ready to change that low-hung little chariot for the hard, angular ebony with raven plumes,
I shall be ready to step into the other plump little vehicle, which is really so nice and cozy."

But we must leave Chip to the easy task of ballooning upward in public estimation, with his
well-inflated bank-account. He was, in fact, reformed by his great commercial success to this
extent, that his vices had become of the most distinguished and unvulgar grade. He was now
courted by the highest artists in iniquity, and had the means of accomplishing results that
none but men who are known to be really rich can command. He, therefore, now quitted all vulgar
associations, and determined not to outrage any of the virtues, except under varnish, gilding,
and polish that would keep everything perfectly respectable. Let him trust to that as long
as he can.

Don't talk of the solitude of a night in the primeval forests, however far from the abodes
of man;--the squirrels and the partridges may be asleep then and there, but the katydids are
awake, and, with the support of contralto and barytone tree-toads, manage to keep up a concert
which cannot fail to impress on you a sense of familiar and friendly company. Don't talk of
the loneliness of a deserted and ruinous castle;--the crickets have not left it, and, if you
don't have a merry time with their shrill jokes, it will be your own fault. But if you would
have a sense of being terribly alone, come from long residence in some quiet country-home on
the border of a quiet country-village, into the hurry-skurry of a strange city, just after
nightfall. Here is an infinite brick-and-stone forest, stern, angular, almost leafless. Here
is a vast, indistinguishable wilderness of flitting human shapes, not one of which takes half
so much notice of you as a wild bush would. Speak to one; it answers without the slightest
emotion, and passes on. Your presence is absolutely no more to any soul of them, provided they
have souls, than if you were so much perfectly familiar granite. You feel, that, with such
attention as you receive, such curiosity as you excite, you must be there hundreds of years
to be either recognized or missed.

Had you been a stranger in Boston, one moist and rather showery summer-evening, not a year
after the events we have narrated, you might have been recovered from the sense of loneliness
we have described by observing one pretty female figure hurrying along the crowded sidewalk
with a very large and replete satchel, and without any of the sang-froid which characterizes
city pedestrianism. You might have noticed that this one human being, like yourself, was evidently
not at home. Every glare of gas-light revealed a deeply-flushed face, eyes that had been weeping
and which were now flashing with a wild earnestness and an altogether preternatural resolution.
A gazelle, started by the huntsman's pack, could not have thrown more piercing glances at every
avenue of escape than this excited girl did at every cross street, and indeed at everything
but the human faces that passed her. All of them she shunned, with a look that seemed equally
anxious to avoid the known and the unknown. She should seem to have narrowly escaped some peril,
and was carrying with her a secret not to be confided to friend or stranger, certainly not
to either without due consideration. Had you watched her, as the crowds of people, returning
from the various evening amusements, died away in the streets, you would have seen the deep
color of her cheeks die away also to deadly paleness; had you been sufficiently clairvoyant,
you might have seen how two charming rows of pearls bit the blanched lips till the runaway
blood came back into the sad gashes, how the tears welled up again, and with them came relief
and fresh strength just as she was about to faint and drop in the street. Then returned again
the throb of indignant resolution, as her mind recurred to the attempted ruin of her paradise
by a disguised foe; then succeeded shame and dread lest the friends she had left in her childhood's
rural home should know how differently from her fond anticipations had turned out the first
week of her sojourn in the great city. She was most thoroughly resolved, that, if possible,
they should not know anything of the wreck of her long-cherished hopes till she had found some
foothold for new ones. She felt that she was a Yankee girl in the metropolis of New England,
with wit, skill, and endurance equal to any employment that ever falls to the lot of Yankee
women; but having given up the only chance which had ever opened to her, how could she find
another? Were she of the other sex, or only disguised in the outer integuments of it, with
the trifling sum in her purse, she would get lodgings at the next hotel, and seek suitable
employment without suspicion. In the wide wilderness of a city there was not an acquaintance
she did not dread to meet, in her present circumstances, even worse than death itself, or,
what is next door to it, a police-station.

The streets had emptied themselves of their rushing throngs, the patter of feet and the murmur
of voices had given place to measured individual marches here and there, the dripping of cave-spouts
and the flapping of awnings could be heard tattling of showers past and future, and the last
organ-grinder had left the ungrateful city to its slumbers, when the poor girl first became
conscious that she had been lugging hither and thither her entire outfit of wardrobe, valuables,
and keepsakes. Aggravated by fatigue, her indecision as to how she should dispose of herself
was gradually sinking into despair, and the official guardians of the night, who had doubtless
noticed her as she passed and repassed through their beats, were beginning to make up their
official minds, generally and severally, that the case might by-and-by require their benevolent
interference, when she was startled by a female voice from behind.

"Arrah, stop there, ye rinaway jade! I know ye by yer big bag, ye big thafe, that ye are!"

Glad at any voice addressed to her, and gladder at this than if it had been more familiar or
more friendly, our forlorn maiden turned and said, in the sweetest voice imaginable,--

"Oh, no, my friend, I am not a thief."

"Och, I beg your pardon, honey! I thought sure it was Bridget, that's jist rin away wid a bagful
of her misthress's clo'es and a hape o' mine, and it's me that's bin all the way down to Pat
Mahoney's in North Street to git him to hunt her up; and the Blessed Mother forgive me, whin
I seen you in the dark, stalin' along like, wi' that bag, I thought it was herself it was,
sure. Och, ye're a swate lass, I see, now; but what makes ye out this time o' night, dear?"

"Well, I'm too late for the train, you see, and I really don't know what to do or where to
go," said the Yankee girl, putting on the air natural to such circumstances, with the readiness
of her race.

"Och, I see, that's the mailing o' the bag, thin. Poor thing! ye jist come along wid me. I'll
lift the bag for ye, me darlint, an' I'll pit clane sheets on Bridget's bed, and ye're welcome
to slape there as long as ye like; for the Blessed Mother knows it's powerful tired ye're lookin',
it is. I'm cook for more nor twinty years for the Hopkinses in Bacon Street, and I can make
ye jist as welcome in my quarthers as if it was nobody but meself that owned it at all at all."

"Oh, my dear woman, I thank you kindly! That bag was beginning to grow heavy," replied the
overjoyed outcast; and presently, with a ready eye to business, she added, "And since Bridget
is gone, who knows but I can take her place? I came to the city on purpose to find something
to do, and I can do anything that is not dishonest."

"Och! the likes o' ye take her place? Niver a bit of it! Why! I see by the gas-light ye're
a leddy as iver was at all at all; and ye could niver come in the shoes of sich a thafe as
Bridget Maloney, as is gone, and the Divil catch her!"

"No, no, not in her shoes to steal anything, I hope; but I can do housework, sweep, make beds,
sew, and make myself useful,--as I will show, if I can have a trial."

"An' ye may well say that's a hape more nor she iver could. But if it's a thrial ye want, it's
me that'll give't ye as soon as ye plase. I'll answer for ye's to Misthress Millicent,--and
that's what I niver did for Bridget, and it's right glad I am of that. Now niver fear, me darlint,
it's a powerful good place, it is too, to thim as kapes the right side o' Misthress Millicent;
for she's the only daughter, and the mother is dead and gone, poor soul!"

They were now approaching the opulent mansion over the cuisine of which our special police-woman
had so long had the honor of presiding. Almost delighted enough with her capture to forget,
if not forgive, her fugitive fellow-servant Bridget, the florid and fat Aunt Peggy Muldoony
hurried along as if the bag were a feather, her words flowing like a spring flood, and introduced
her charge at a postern-door into her own house, as she called it. This was, in fact, a very
comfortable and somewhat spacious dwelling, which stood almost distinct in the rear of the
mansion in which the Hopkins family proper resided, so that there should be ample accommodations
for servants, and the steam of cooking could not annoy the grand parlors. Here we might leave
the beautiful waif, so strangely picked up in the dark street, to the working of her own genius.
She had fallen into a place which had control of all the chamber-work of a modern palace, with
ample assistance. Aunt Peggy, her guardian angel, at once instructed her in the routine of
the duties, and she very soon had occasion to wonder how the care of so many beautiful flowers,
vases, statues, pictures, and objects of splendor and taste, not to speak of beds that the
Queen of Sheba might have envied, could have been committed to a domestic who could be tempted
to run away with a few hundred dollars' worth of silks and laces. The legal owner himself could
hardly enjoy his well-appointed paradise better than she did, in keeping every leaf up to its
highest beauty. It must require a pretty strong dose of tyranny to drive her away, she thought.

But tyranny, if it were there, did not show itself. After a number of serious, but vain attempts,
on the part of Miss Millicent, to gratify her curiosity by unravelling the mystery of her new
servant, whose industry, skill, and taste produced visible and very satisfactory effects in
every part of the mansion, she settled down to the conclusion, that, finally, a treasure had
fallen to her lot which it was best for her to keep as carefully as possible and make the most
of. She could now smile and assume airs of great condescension when her worthy female friends
complained of careless, incompetent, and unfaithful domestics, and have the pleasure of being
teased in vain to know what she did to be so well served.

The satisfaction of Miss Millicent at having found and attached to her service a young woman
of such superlative domestic genius and taste, who seemed to be so thoroughly contented with
her situation, was especially enhanced by the fact, that her own marriage was approaching,
an occasion which any bride of good sense would wish to have free from the annoyance of slack
and untrustworthy Bridgets.

A few months after the period of which we have been speaking, the long-expected event of the
last paragraph was evidently on the eve of accomplishment. There was sitting in the distinguished
parlor of Mr. Hopkins, himself, occupying an easy-chair of the most elaborate design and costly
materials. It had all manner of extensibilities,--conveniences for reclining the trunk or any
given limb at any possible angle,--conveniences for sleeping, for writing, for reading, for
taking snuff,--and was, withal, a marvel of upholstery-workmanship and substantial strength.
Another still more exquisite combination of rosewood, velvet, spiral springs, and cunning floral
carving, presenting a striking resemblance to that great ornament of the English alphabet,
the letter S, held Miss Millicent Hopkins, in one curve, face to face with Mr. Chipworth Dartmouth,
already known to the reader, in the other. Near by the half-recumbent millionnaire, at a little
gem of a lady's writing-desk, sat Mr. Frank Sterling, the junior partner of the distinguished
law-firm of Trevor and Sterling, engaged in reading to all the parties aforesaid a very ingenious
and interesting document, which he had drawn up, according to the general dictation of Mr.
Hopkins aforesaid. It was, in fact, a marriage-settlement, of which the three beautifully engrossed
copies were to be signed and sealed by all the parties in interest, and each was to possess
a copy. Frank Sterling read over the paragraphs which settled enormous masses of funds around
the sacred altar where Hymen was so soon to apply his torch, with great professional coolness,
as well as commendable rapidity; but when he came to the conclusion, and, looking at both father
and daughter, said, that all that remained, if the draught now met their approbation, was,
to have witnesses called in and add the signatures, he betrayed a little personal feeling,
which it behooves the reader to understand.

Frank Sterling, though one of the best fellows in the world, with a joyous face, a bright eye,
a hearty laugh, and the keenest possible relish for everything beautiful and good, was a bachelor,
because a mate quite to his judgment and taste had never fallen in his way. With Mr. Hopkins,
he had been, for a year or two, a favorite lawyer. Professional business had often brought
him to the house, and at Miss Millicent's parties he had often been a specially licensed guest.
There had been a time, he felt quite sure, when, if he had pushed a suit, he could have put
his name where that of Dartmouth stood in the marriage-settlement, and, as he glanced at Miss
Millicent, as she sat in the mellow light of the purplish plate-glass of that superb parlor,
she seemed so beautiful and queenly that he almost wished he had done it. Was it quite fit
that such a woman should be thrown away upon one of the mere beasts of the stock-market? The
air with which Chip took his victory was so exactly like that matter-of-course chuckle with
which he would have tossed over the proceeds of a shrewd bargain into his bank-account, that
the young lawyer's soul was shocked at it, and he almost wished he had prevented such a shame.
However, his discretion came to the rescue, and told him he had done right in not linking his
fortunes to a woman who, however beautiful, was too passive in her character to make any man
positively happy. Had it been his ambition to spend his life in burning incense to an exquisitely
chiselled goddess, here was a chance, to be sure, where he could have done it on a salary that
would have satisfied a pontifex maximus; but, with a fair share of the regard for money which
characterizes his profession, Mr. Sterling never could make up his mind to become a suitor
for the hand of Miss Millicent, nor get rid of the notion that he was to bless and be blessed
by some woman of positive character and a taste for working out her own salvation in her own
way,--some woman who, not being made by her wealth, could not be unmade by the loss of it.
It was, therefore, only a momentary sense of choking he experienced, as he laid the manuscripts
on the leaf of Mr. Hopkins's chair, and said,--

"Shall I ring the bell, Sir?"

"If you please, Mr. Sterling. Now, Millicent, dear, whose name shall have the honor of standing
as witness on this document? There is Aunt Peggy,--is good at using pothooks, but not so good
at making them. Her mark won't exactly do."

"Why, father! I shall, of course, have my little favorite, Lucy Green; her signature will be
perfectly beautiful. And by the way, Mr. Dartmouth, here is a thing I haven't thought of before.
With this Lucy of mine for an attendant, I am worth about twice as much as I should have been
without her, and yet no mention has been made of this in the bargain."

"Ha! ha!" said Chip. "Thought of in good time. Let Mr. Sterling add the item at once. I am
content."

"First, however, you shall see the good girl herself, Mr. Dartmouth, and then we can have a
postscript--or should I say a codicil?--on her account. John, please say to Lucy, I wish her
to come to me. After all the stocks and bonds in the world, Mr. Dartmouth, our lives are what
our servants please to make them."

"True, indeed, my love; but the comfort is, if we are well stocked with bonds of the right
sort, servants that don't suit can be changed for those that do."

"And the more changes, the worse, commonly;--an exception is so rare, I dread nothing like
change. The chance of improving a bad one is even better, I think."

"I don't believe there is anything good in the flunkey line that money won't buy. I have always
found I could have anything I wanted, if I saw fit to pay its price. Money, no matter what
simpletons preach, money, my dear, is"----

"Why, Lucy, what is the matter?" exclaimed Miss Millicent, with some surprise and anxiety,
as she saw the girl, who had just entered, instead of advancing, awkwardly shrink on one side
into a chair behind the door, with a shudder, as if she had trod on a reptile. The next moment
she was at her side, earnestly whispering something in her ear, evidently an explanation of
the circumstances of the case, to which Lucy had hitherto been an entire stranger.

"Pray, excuse me, Ma'am," was the girl's scarce audible response to some request.

"It is only to write your name, Lucy."

"Not to such a paper, for the world!"

"Not to oblige me?"

"I would do anything, Ma'am, to oblige you, but that would not. Never! never!" said the excited
girl, catching another glimpse of Chip, who was now looking obliquely at the whispering couple,
and drumming with his fingers on the rosewood of that part of the letter S from which his intended
had just risen, as if he were hurriedly beating a reveille to rally his faltering impudence.
"No, Ma'am;--it is too bad, it is too bad, it is too"----Here her utterance became choked,
her cheeks pallid as death, and her form wilted and fell like a flower before the mower's scythe.
Millicent prevented the fall, while Sterling rang for water, and Chip, peering about with more
agitation than any one else, finally remarked,--

"The girl must be sick;--better take her out."

The young lawyer, with the aid of a servant, did bear her to another apartment, where, after
the usual time and restoratives, she recovered her consciousness, and the maiden blood again
revealed tints that the queen of flowers might envy. Chip and the millionnaire remained in
the parlor, while the others were taking care of the proposed witness, and great was the anxiety
of the former that their absence should not be prolonged. Suddenly he recollected a forgotten
engagement of great importance, pulled out his watch, fidgeted, suggested that the lawyer and
Miss Millicent should be recalled, that the papers might be signed before he went. Mr. Hopkins
was of that opinion, and sent a servant to call them. Miss Millicent came, but could not think
of completing the contract without the signature of her favorite domestic. Argument enough
was ready, but she was fortified by a sentiment that was more than a match for it. Mr. Hopkins
was all ready, and would have the matter closed as soon as the lawyer arrived, affirming that
his daughter would have too much sense, at last, to stand out on such a trifle.

In the mean time, the supposed Miss Lucy having had time to collect her scattered senses, there
occurred the following dialogue between her and Frank Sterling, whose curiosity, not to speak
of any other interest, had been thoroughly roused by the strange patient for whom he had just
been acting in a medical, rather than legal capacity.

Frank. "We are all right, now, I think, Miss Lucy,--and they are waiting for us in the parlor,
you know."

Lucy. "That paper must not be signed, Sir. If Miss Millicent knew what I do about that man,
he would be the last man in the world she would think of for a husband."

Frank. "But he is one of the merchant princes,--respectable, of course. What harm can you know
of him?"

Lucy. "If he is not so great a villain as he might be, let him thank my escape from Mrs. Farmthroy's
the night I came here. If he is to be at home here, I shall not be; but before I leave, I wish
to restore him what belongs to him. Excuse me a moment, Sir, and I will fetch it."

"A regular previous love-affair," thought Frank, and expected her to return, bringing a small
lot of erotic jewelry to be returned to Chipworth, as the false-hearted donor thereof. Great
was his surprise, when, instead of that, she brought a small parcel or wad of yellowish paper,
variegated with certain scrawls of rapid writing, of the manifold sort.

"Why, that," said Frank, after unfolding the half-dozen sheets, all of the same tenor, "is
a set of news-dispatches, and of a pretty ancient date, too."

Lucy. "But it is his property, Sir; and though worthless itself, being worth as much as he
is, it may be valuable to him."

Frank. "Yes, yes. I begin to see. Cotton-Market. This reminds me of the case of our client
Grant. Why, pray, how did you come by these?"

Lucy. "Perhaps I ought not to tell you all. But if I may rely on your honor as a gentleman,
I will."

Frank. "As a gentleman, a man, and a lawyer, you may trust me that every word shall be sacredly
confidential."

Lucy. "Well, Sir, my name is not Lucy Green, but Laura Birch. My mother keeps the Birch House
in Waltham; and this man, whom you call a merchant prince, came to my mother's the very day
after the date on them papers, and hired my brother to carry him to Captain Grant's. When he
took out his pocketbook to pay, which he did like a prince, perhaps, he probably let these
papers fall. At any rate, no one else could have dropped them; and I saved them, thinking to
give them to him when he should call again. I have seen him but once since, at a place where,
through his interest, I supposed I had obtained a situation to learn the milliner's trade.
I needn't say why I did not return his property then. If, now, I had in my possession even
an old shoestring that had ever been his, I would beg you to return it to him, and find out
for me where I can go never to see him."

Frank. "But I shall take care of these dispatches. There's a story about these papers, I see.
Here's a ray of daylight penetrating a dark spot. Two links in the chain of circumstances,
to say the least. Captain Grant's unfortunate sale of cotton to Dartmouth just before the rise,
and the famous lost dispatch found on Dartmouth's track to Grant. Did you see him have these
papers, Miss Lucy--I beg your pardon--Miss Laura?"

Lucy. "No, Sir; but I know he left them, just as well as if I had seen them in his hands."

Frank. "True, true enough in fact, but not so good in law."

Lucy. "Is there anything by which the law can reach him, Sir? Oh, I should be so glad, if the
law could break off this match, even if it cannot break his neck; and he deserves that, I am
afraid, if ever a villain did."

Frank. "Yes,--there's enough in this roll to banish such a fellow, if not to hang him. And
it shall be done, too."

Lucy. "And Miss Millicent be saved, too? Delightful!"

Sterling, with the roll of yellow paper in his fist, now returned to the parlor, where Mr.
Hopkins impatiently opened upon him, before he could close the door.

"Well, Mr. Counsellor, we are all waiting for you. Mr. Dartmouth has urgent business, and is
in haste to go. We shall be holden in heavy damages, if we detain him."

"He will be in more haste to go by-and-by, Sir. I have some papers here, Sir, which make it
necessary that this marriage-contract should stand aside till some other matters can be settled,
or at least explained. I refer to these manifold dispatches, detailing the latest news of the
Liverpool cotton-market, by the fraudulent possession of which on the part of somebody, a client
of mine, Captain Grant of Waltham, was cheated out of a small fortune. Perhaps Mr. Dartmouth
knows who went to Waltham one morning to close a bargain before the telegraph-news should transpire.
It is rather remarkable that certain lost dispatches should have been found in that man's track."

Whether Chip Dartmouth heard three words of this harangue may be doubted. The sight of that
yellowish paper did the business for him. His expression vibrated from that of a mad rattlesnake
to that of a dog with the most downcast extremities. At last he rushed to the door, saying
he "would stand no such nonsense."

"But you will have to stand it!"

Chip was gone. Mr. Hopkins was in a state of amazement; and Millicent, if she did not swoon,
seemed to herself in a trance. Neither of them could see in the cause anything to account for
the effect. How could a merchant prince quail before so flimsy a piece of paper? Mr. Sterling
explained. Mr. Hopkins begged the matter might not be made public,--above all things, that
legal proceedings should be avoided.

"No," said Sterling,--"I shall punish him more effectually. The proof, though strong as holy
writ, would probably fail to convict him in court. Therefore I shall let him off on these conditions:
He shall disgorge to Captain Grant his profits on that cotton with interest, relinquish Miss
Millicent's hand, if she so pleases, and, at any rate, relieve Boston of his presence altogether
and for good. He may do it as soon as he likes, and as privately."

This course at once met the approbation of all parties, and was carried out.

What became of Squire Sterling, whether he married the mistress of that mansion or her maid,
this deponent saith not; though he doth say that he did marry one of them, and had no cause
to regret the same.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEEN AND UNSEEN.

  The wind ahead, the billows high,
  A whited wave, but sable sky,
  And many a league of tossing sea
  Between the hearts I love and me.

  The wind ahead: day after day
  These weary words the sailors say;
  To weeks the days are lengthened now,--
  Still mounts the surge to meet our prow.

  Through longing day and lingering night
  I still accuse Time's lagging flight,
  Or gaze out o'er the envious sea,
  That keeps the hearts I love from me.

  Yet, ah, how shallow is all grief!
  How instant is the deep relief!
  And what a hypocrite am I,
  To feign forlorn, to 'plain and sigh!

  The wind ahead? The wind is free!
  Forever more it favoreth me,--
  To shores of God still blowing fair,
  O'er seas of God my bark doth bear.

  This surging brine I do not sail,
  This blast adverse is not my gale;
  'Tis here I only seem to be,
  But really sail another sea,--

  Another sea, pure sky its waves,
  Whose beauty hides no heaving graves,--
  A sea all haven, whereupon
  No hapless bark to wreck hath gone.

  For Destiny pursues us well,
  By sea, by land, through heaven or hell;
  It suffers Death alone to die,
  Bids Life all change and chance defy.

  Would earth's dark ocean suck thee down?
  Earth's ocean thou, O Life, shalt drown,
  Shalt flood it with thy finer wave,
  And, sepulchred, entomb thy grave!

  Life loveth life and good: then trust
  What most the spirit would, it must;
  Deep wishes, in the heart that be,
  Are blossoms of Necessity.

  A thread of Law runs through thy prayer,
  Stronger than iron cables are;
  And Love and Longing toward her goal
  Are pilots sweet to guide the Soul.

  So Life must live, and Soul must sail,
  And Unseen over Seen prevail,
  And all God's argosies come to shore,
  Let ocean smile, or rage and roar.

  And so, 'mid storm or calm, my bark
  With snowy wake still nears her mark;
  Cheerly the trades of being blow,
  And sweeping down the wind I go.

PERCIVAL.

Among my letters is one from Dr. E.D. North, desiring me to furnish any facts within my reach,
relating to the scientific character and general opinions of the late James G. Percival. This
information Dr. North proposed to incorporate into a memoir, to be prefixed to a new edition
of Percival's Poems. The biographer, with his task unfinished, has followed the subject of
his studies to the tomb.

Dr. North's request revived in me many recollections of Percival; and finally led me to draw
out the following sketch of him, as he appeared to my eyes in those days when I saw him often,
and sometimes shared his pursuits. Vague and shadowy is the delineation, and to myself seems
little better than the reminiscence of a phantom or a dream. Percival's life had few externalities,--he
related himself to society by few points of contact; and I have been compelled to paint him
chiefly by glimpses of his literary and interior existence.

My acquaintance with him grew out of some conversations on geological topics, and commenced
in 1828, when he was working on his translation of Malte-Brun's Geography. The impression made
on me by his singular person and manners was vivid and indelible. Slender in form, rather above
than under the middle height, he had a narrow chest, and a peculiar stoop, which was not in
the back, but high up in the shoulders. His head, without being large, was fine. His eyes were
of a dark hazel, and possessed uncommon expression. His nose, mouth, and chin were symmetrically,
if not elegantly formed, and came short of beauty only because of that meagreness which marked
his whole person. His complexion, light without redness, inclined to sallow, and suggested
a temperament somewhat bilious. His dark brown hair had become thin above the forehead, revealing
to advantage that most striking feature of his countenance. Taken all together, his appearance
was that of a weak man, of delicate constitution,--an appearance hardly justified by the fact;
for he endured fatigue and privation with remarkable stanchness.

Percival's face, when he was silent, was full of calm, serious meditation; when speaking, it
lighted up with thought, and became noticeably expressive. He commonly talked in a mild, unimpassioned
undertone, but just above a whisper, letting his voice sink with rather a pleasing cadence
at the completion of each sentence. Even when most animated, he used no gesture except a movement
of the first and second fingers of his right hand backward and forward across the palm of the
left, meantime following their monotonous unrest with his eyes, and rarely meeting the gaze
of his interlocutor. He would stand for hours, when talking, his right elbow on a mantel-piece,
if there was one near, his fingers going through their strange palmistry; and in this manner,
never once stirring from his position, he would not unfrequently protract his discourse till
long past midnight. An inexhaustible, undemonstrative, noiseless, passionless man, scarcely
evident to you by physical qualities, and impressing you, for the most part, as a creature
of pure intellect.

His wardrobe was remarkably inexpensive, consisting of little more than a single plain suit,
brown or gray, which he wore winter and summer, until it became threadbare. He never used boots;
and his shoes, though carefully dusted, were never blacked. A most unpretending bow fastened
his cravat of colored cambric. For many years his only outer garment was a brown camlet cloak,
of very scanty proportions, thinly lined, and a meagre protection against winter. His hat was
worn for years before being laid aside, and put you in mind of the prevailing mode by the law
of contrast only. He was never seen with gloves, and rarely with an umbrella. The value of
his entire wardrobe scarcely exceeded fifty dollars; yet he was always neat, and appeared unconscious
of any peculiarity in his costume.

An accurate portrait of him at any period of his life can scarcely be said to exist. His sensitive
modesty seems to have made him unwilling to let his features be exposed to the flaring notoriety
of canvas. Once, indeed, he allowed himself to be painted by Mr. George A. Flagg; but the picture
having been exhibited in the Trumbull Gallery of Yale College, Percival's susceptibility took
alarm, and he expressed annoyance,--though whether dissatisfied with the portrait or its public
exposure I cannot say. The artist proposed certain alterations, and the poet listened to him
with seeming assent. The picture was taken back to the studio; objectionable or questionable
parts of it painted out; the likeness destroyed for the purpose of correction; and Percival
was to give another sitting at his convenience. That was the last time he put himself within
painting reach of Mr. Flagg's easel.[A]

[Footnote A: I remember to have seen an excellent portrait of him, by Alexander, in the studio
of that artist, in the year 1825; but in whose possession it now is, I am unable to say.]

In those days of our early acquaintance, he occupied two small chambers, one of which fronted
on the business part of Chapel Street (New Haven). His books, already numerous, were piled
in double tiers and in heaps against the walls, covering the floors also, and barely leaving
space for his sleeping-cot, chair, and writing-table. His library was a sanctum to which the
curious visitor hardly ever gained admittance. He met even his friends at the door, and generally
held his interviews with them in the adjoining passage. Disinclined to borrow books, he was
especially averse to lending. Dr. Guhrauer's assertion respecting Leibnitz, that "his library
was numerous and valuable, and its possessor had the peculiarity that he liked to worm in it
alone, being very reluctant to let any one see it," applies equally well to Percival.

He was rarely visible abroad except in his walks to and from the country, whither he often
resorted to pass not hours only, but frequently entire days, in solitary wanderings,--partly
for physical exercise,--still more, perhaps, to study the botany, the geology, and the minutest
geographical features of the environs; for his restless mind was perpetually observant, and
could not be withheld from external Nature, even by his poetic and philosophic meditation.
In these excursions, he often passed his fellow-mortals without noticing them. A friend, if
observed, he greeted with a slight nod, and possibly stopped him for conversation. Once started
on a subject, Percival rarely quitted it until it was exhausted; and consequently these interviews
sometimes outlasted the leisure of his listener. You excused yourself, perhaps; or you were
called away by some one else; but you had only put off the conclusion of the discourse, not
escaped it. The next time Percival encountered you, his first words were, "As I was saying,"--and
taking up the thread of his observations where it had been broken, he went straight to the end.

The excellent bookstore of the late Hezekiah Howe, one of the best in New England, and particularly
rich in those rare and costly works which form a bookworm's delight, was one of Percival's
best-loved lounging-places. He bought freely, and, when he could not buy, he was welcome to
peruse: He read with marvellous rapidity, skipping as if by instinct everything that was unimportant;
avoiding the rhetoric, the commonplaces, the falsities; glancing only at what was new, what
was true, what was suggestive, he had a distinct object in view; but it was not to amuse himself,
nor to compare author with author; it was simply to increase the sum of his own knowledge.
Perhaps it was in these rapid forays through unbought, uncut volumes, that he acquired his
singular habit of reading books, even his own, without subjecting them to the paper-knife.
People who wanted to see Percival and obtain his views on special topics were accustomed to
look for him at Mr. Howe's, and always found him willing to pour forth his voluminous information.

His income at this time was derived solely from literary jobs, and was understood to be very
limited. What he earned he spent chiefly for books, particularly for such as would assist him
in perfecting that striking monument of his varied and profound research, his new translation
and edition of Malte-Brun. For this labor the time had been estimated, and the publishers had
made him an allowance, which, if he had worked like other men, would have amounted to eight
dollars a day. But Percival would let nothing go out of his hands imperfect; a typographical
error, even, I have heard him say, sometimes depressed him like actual illness. He translated
and revised so carefully, he corrected so many errors and added so many footnotes, that his
industry actually devoured its own wages; and his eight dollars gradually diminished to a diurnal
fifty cents.

Percival made no merely ceremonial calls, few friendly visits, and attended no parties. If
he dropped in upon a family of his acquaintance, he rarely addressed himself to a lady. Otherwise
there was nothing peculiar in his deportment; for, if silent, he was not embarrassed,--and
if he talked, it was without any appearance of self-consciousness.

Judging from his isolated habits, some persons supposed him misanthropic. Let me give one instance
of his good-nature. One of the elder professors of Yale had fallen into a temporary misappreciation
with the students, who received his instructions, to say the least, with an ill-concealed indifference.
They whispered during his lectures, and in other ways rendered themselves strenuously disagreeable
to the sensitive nerves of the professor. Indignant at such behavior toward a worthy and learned
man, who had been his own instructor, Percival proposed a plan for stopping the annoyance.
It was, that a number of old graduates, professors, and others, himself being one, should attend
the lectures, listen to them with the respect they merited, and so, if possible, bring the
students to a sense of propriety and of the advantages they were neglecting.

No, Percival was not a misanthrope. During an acquaintance of twenty-five years, I never knew
him do an act or utter a word which could countenance this opinion. He indulged in no bitter
remarks, cherished no hatred of individuals, affected no scorn of his race; on the contrary,
he held large views concerning the noble destinies of mankind, and expressed deep interest
in its advancement toward greater intelligence and virtue. The local affections he certainly
had, for he was gratified at the prosperity of his fellow-townsmen, proud of his native State,
and took a pleasure in defending her name from unjust aspersions. Patriotic, too,--none more
so,--he rejoiced in the welfare of the whole country, knew its history thoroughly, and bestowed
on its military heroes, in particular, a lively appreciation, which was singular, perhaps,
in a man of such gentle habits and nature. I cannot forget the excited pleasure with which
we visited, when on the geological survey of Connecticut, Putnam's Stairs at Horseneck, and
Putnam's Wolf-Den in Pomfret. At the latter place, Percival's enthusiasm for the heroic hunter
and warrior led him to carve his initials on a rock at the entrance of the chasm. It was the
only place during the tour where he left a similar memorial.

American statesmen he admired scarcely less than American soldiers; nor did he neglect any
information within his reach concerning public men and measures. It was singular to observe
with what freedom from excitement he discussed the most irritating phases of party,--speaking
of the men and events of his own day with as much philosophic calmness as if they belonged
to a previous century; not at all deceived, I think, by the temporary notoriety and power which
frequently attend the political bustler,--quite positive, indeed, that many of our "great men"
were far inferior to multitudes in private life. Webster he respected greatly, and used to
regret that his fortune was not commensurate with his tastes. Like a true poet, he believed
devoutly in native genius, considered it something inimitable and incommunicable, and worshipped
it whereever he found it.

Percival was indifferent and even disinclined to female society. There is a common story that
he had conceived an aversion to the whole sex in consequence of a youthful disappointment in
love. I know nothing concerning this alleged chagrin, but I am confident that he cherished
no such antipathy. He never, in my hearing, said a hard thing of any woman, or of the sex;
and I remember distinctly the flattering and even poetic appreciation with which he spoke of
individual ladies. Of one who has since become a distinguished authoress of the South, he said,
that "her conversation had as great an intellectual charm for him as that of any scholar among
his male acquaintances." Of a lady still resident in New Haven, he observed, that "there was
a mysterious beauty in her thoughtful face and dark eyes which reminded him of a deep and limpid
forest-fountain." But although he did not hate women, he certainly was disinclined to their
society,--an oddity, I beg leave to say, in any man, and a most surprising eccentricity in
a poet. Constitutional timidity may have founded this habit during youth; for, as I have already
observed, his modesty was sensitive and almost morbid. Then came his multitudinous studies,
which absorbed him utterly, and in which, unfortunately for Percival, if not for the ladies,
these last took so little interest that conversation was not mutually desirable. A remark he
made to a scientific friend, who had just been married, will, perhaps, throw some light on
the subject. "How is this?" said he; "I thought you were wedded to science." This was all the
felicitation he had to offer; and without asking for the bride, he plunged into the discussion
which was the object of the visit.

In 1835 commenced the geological survey of Connecticut, and I became Percival's companion in
labor. To him was intrusted the geology proper, and to myself the mineralogy and its economical
applications. During the first season, we prosecuted our investigations together, travelling
in a one-horse wagon, which carried all our necessary implements, and visiting, before the
campaign ended, every parish in the State. Great was the wonder our strange outfit and occupation
excited in some rustic neighborhoods; and very often were we called upon to enlighten the popular
mind with regard to our object and its uses. This was never a pleasant task to Percival. He
did not relish long confabulations with a sovereign people somewhat ignorant of geology; and,
moreover, his style of describing our business was so peculiar, that it rarely failed to transfer
the curiosity to himself, and lead to tiresome delays. In New Milford, an inquisitive farmer
requested us, in a somewhat ungracious manner, to give an account of ourselves. Percival replied,
that we were acting under a commission from the Governor to ascertain the useful minerals of
the State; whereupon our utilitarian friend immediately demanded to be informed how the citizens
at large, including himself, were to be benefited by the undertaking,--putting question on
question in a fashion which was most pertinacious and almost impertinent. Percival became impatient,
and tried to hurry away. "I demand the information," exclaimed the New Milfordite; "I demand
it as my right. You are only servants of the people; and you are paid, in part, at least, out
of my pocket." "I'll tell you what we'll do," said Percival; "we can't stop, but we'll refund.
Your portion of the geological tax,--let me see,--it must be about two cents. We prefer handing
you this to encountering a further delay." Our agricultural friend and master did not take
the money, although he did the hint,--and in sulky silence withdrew from our company.

Driving through the town of Warren, we stopped a farmer to inquire the way to certain places
in the vicinity. He gave us the information sought, staring at us meanwhile with a benevolently
inquisitive expression, and, at last, volunteering the remark, that, if we wanted a job, we
had better stop at the factory in the hollow. We thanked him for his goodness, and thought,
perhaps, of Sedgewick geologizing by the road-side, and getting a charitable half-crown flung
at him by a noble lady who was on her way to dine in his company at the house of a mutual acquaintance.

Let us grant here one brief parenthesis of respect and astonishment to the scientific knowledge
and philological acumen of a distinguished graduate of Yale College, and member of Congress,
whom we encountered on our travels. Hearing us speak of mosaic granite, a rock occurring in
Woodbridge, to which we had given this name, from the checker-like arrangement of its felspathic
ingredient, he concluded that we attributed its formation to the era of Moses, and asked Percival
what evidence he had for such an opinion. Small blame to him, perhaps, for the blunder, but
it seemed a very droll one to geologists.

In Greenwich, the extreme southwestern town of the State, we encountered an incident to which
my companion would sometimes refer with a slight degree of merriment. In general, he was no
joker, no anecdotist, and had but a feeble appreciation of droll sayings or humorous matters
of any kind. But in Greenwich he heard a memorable phrase. Among the tavern-loungers was a
man who had evidently seen better days, and who, either for that reason or because of the large
amount of rum he had swallowed, entertained a lofty opinion of himself, and discoursed de omnibus
rebus in a most consequential fashion. He soon made himself a sort of medium between ourselves
and his fellow-loafers. Overhearing us say that we wished to pass the New York frontier for
the sake of tracing out the strata then under examination, he proceeded with much pomposity
to declare to his deeply curious auditory, that "it was his opinion that the Governor of the
State should confer upon these gentlemen discretionary powers to pass the limits of Connecticut,
whenever and wherever, in the prosecution of their labors, the interests of science required
them so to do." After this, we rarely crossed the State line but Percival observed, "We are
now taking advantage of our discretionary powers."

Of the few stories Percival told me, here is one. In one of our country-places, a plain, shrewd
townsman fell into chance conversation with him, and entertained him with some account of a
neighbor who had been seized with a mania for high Art, and had let loose his frenzy upon canvas
in a deluge of oil-colors. If I mistake not, Percival was invited to inspect these productions
of untaught and perhaps unteachable genius. They were vast attempts at historical scenes, in
which the heads and legs of heroes were visible, but played a very secondary part in the interest,
compared with a perfect tempest of drapery, which rolled in ungovernable masses, like the clouds
of a thunder-storm.

"What do you think of them?" inquired Percival.

"Well, I don't claim to be a judge of such things," replied his cicerone; "but the fact is,
(and I told the painter so,) that, when I look at 'em, about the only thing I can think of
is a resurrection of old clothes."

In the town of Lebanon, an incident occurred which affected us rather more seriously. Turning
a corner suddenly, we came upon an old man digging up cobble-stones by the road-side and breaking
them in pieces with an axe. "A brother-geologist," was our first impression. At that moment
the old man sprang toward us, the axe in one hand and half a brick in the other, shouting eagerly,--

"I guess Mr. ----" (name indistinguishable) "will be glad to see you, gentlemen."

"For what?"

"Why, he has got several boxes of jewels; and I gave an advertisement in the paper."

"Whose are they?"

"King Jerome's."

"And who is he?"

"The king of the world!" shouted the maniac, still advancing with a menacing air, and so near
the wagon by this time that he might almost have hit Percival with his axe.

Without pausing to hear more about the jewels, a sudden blow to the horse barely enabled us
to escape the reach of our fellow-laborer before he had time to use his axe on our own formations.

In the following year, when Percival was pursuing the survey by himself, on horseback, some
of the elements of this adventure were repeated, but reversed after a very odd fashion. The
late Dr. Carrington, of Farmington, who told me the tale, being ten miles from home on a professional
excursion, drove up to a tavern and found himself welcomed with extraordinary emphasis by the
innkeeper. The Doctor was just the person he wanted to see; the Doctor's opinion was very much
needed about that strange man out there; he wished the Doctor to have a talk with him, and
see whether he was crazy or not. The fellow had been there a day or two, picking up stones
about the lots; and some of the boys had been sent to watch him, but could get nothing out
of him. This morning he wanted to go away, and ordered his horse; but the neighbors wouldn't
let it be brought up, for they said he was surely some mad chap who had taken another man's
horse. Thus talking, the landlord pointed out Percival, surrounded by a group of villagers,
who, quietly, and under pretence of conversation, were holding him under a sort of arrest.
The Doctor rushed into the circle, addressed his friend Percival by name, spoke of the survey,
and thus satisfied the bystanders, who, guessing their mistake, dispersed silently. No open
remonstrance was needed, and perhaps Percival never understood the adventure in which he thus
unconsciously formed the principal character.

While we were in Berlin, the native town of Percival, he related to me several incidents of
his earlier life. His father was discussing some geographical question with a neighbor; and
the future geologist, then a boy of seven or eight, sat by listening until the ignorance of
his elders tempted him to speak. "Where did you learn that?" they asked, in astonishment. With
timid reluctance, he confessed that he had been reading clandestinely Morse's large geography,
of which there was a copy in a society-library kept at his father's house. The book, he added,
had an indescribable attraction for him; and even at that almost infantile age he was familiar
with its contents. It was this reading of Morse, perhaps, which determined his taste for those
geographical studies in which he subsequently became so distinguished. With him, as with Humboldt
and Guyot, geography was a term of wide signification. Far from confining it to the names and
boundaries of countries, seas, and lakes, to the courses of rivers and the altitudes of mountains,
he connected with it meteorology, natural history, and the leading facts of human history,
ethnology, and archaeology. He knew London as thoroughly as most Americans know New York or
Philadelphia, and yet he had never crossed the Atlantic.

An instance of the minuteness of his geographical information was related to me by the Rev.
Mr. Adam, a Scottish clergyman, long resident at Benares, but subsequently settled over the
Congregational Church in Amherst, Massachusetts. On his way to visit me at New Haven, he met
in the stage-coach a countryman of his, who soon opened a controversy with him respecting the
course of a certain river in Scotland. The discussion had continued for some time, when another
passenger offered a suggestion which opened the eyes of the debaters to the fact (not unfrequently
the case in such controversies) that they were both wrong. "How long since you were there,
Sir?" they asked; and the reply was, "I never was in Scotland." "Who are you, Sir?" Mr. Adam
wanted to ask, but kept the question until he could put it to me. I did not feel much hesitation
in telling him that the stranger must have been Percival; and Percival it was, as I afterwards
learned by questioning him of the circumstance.

But we must return to Berlin, in order to hear one more of Percival's stories. Passing a field,
half a mile from his early home, he told an incident connected with it, and related to his
favorite study of natural history. The field had belonged to his father, who, besides being
the physician of Berlin, indulged a taste for agriculture. Just before the harvest season,
it became palpable that this field, then waving with wheat, was depredated upon to a wasteful
extent by some unknown subjects of the animal kingdom. Having watched for the pilferers in
vain by day, the proprietor resolved to mount guard by night, and accordingly ambushed himself
in the invaded territory. Near midnight, he saw his own flock of geese, hitherto considered
so trustworthy, approach silently in single file, make their entry between the rails, and commence
transferring the wheat-crop into their own crops, after a ravenous fashion. Having eaten their
fill, they re-formed their column of march, with a venerable gander at the head, and trudged
silently homeward, cautiously followed by their owner, who noticed, that, on regaining his
door-yard, they set up a vociferous cackle, such as he had repeatedly heard from them before
at about the same hour. It was a most evident attempt to establish an alibi; it was as much
as to say, "If you miss any wheat, we didn't take it; we are honest birds, and stay at home
o'nights, Dr. Percival." The next morning, however, a general decapitation overtook the flock
of feathered hypocrites. "It was a curious instance of the domestic goose reverting to its
wild habit of nocturnal feeding," remarked my narrator, dwelling characteristically upon the
natural-history aspect of the fact.

Percival was almost incapable of an irrelevancy. The survey was the business in hand, and he
rarely discoursed much of things disconnected with it, except, perhaps, when we were retracing
our routes, or when the labors of the day were over. Of poets and poetry he was not inclined
to speak. I never heard him quote a line, either his own or another's, nor indulge in a single
poetic observation concerning the objects which met us in our wanderings. Indeed, he confessed
that he no longer felt disposed to write verses, being satisfied that his productions were
not acceptable to the prevailing taste; although he admitted that he composed a few stanzas
occasionally, in order to make trial of some unusual measure or new language. He told me that
he had versified in thirteen languages; and I have heard from others that he had imitated all
the Greek and German metres.

Of politics, foreign and domestic, he talked frequently, but always philosophically and dispassionately,
much as if he were speaking of geological stratification. His views of humanity were deduced
from a most extensive survey of the race in all its historical and geographical relations.
He distinctly recognized the fact of its steady advance from one stage to another, in accordance
with a plan of intellectually organic development, as marked as that detected by the geologist
in the gradual preparation of the earth for the abode of our species. The slowness and seeming
vacillation of man's upward movement could not stagger his faith; for if it had taken thousands
of ages to make earth habitable, why should it not take thousands more to bring man to his
completeness? Equally free was he from misgiving on account of the remaining presence of so
much misery and wretchedness; for these he considered as the indispensable stimuli to progress.
Even war, he used to say, is sometimes necessary to the welfare of nations, as sickness and
sorrow plainly are to that of individuals; although, to his moral sense, the human authors
of this scourge were no more admirable than the devisers of any private calamity. Improvements
in knowledge he regarded as the only elements of real progress; and these he looked upon as
true germinal principles, bound up organically in the constitution of the human soul. Indeed,
that philosophical calmness which was characteristic of him seemed to flow in some measure
from his settled persuasion that the same matchless wisdom and benevolence he recognized throughout
Nature wrought with a still higher providence and a more earnest love for man and would make
all things finally conduce to his welfare. It was clear that he drew a profound tranquillity
from the thought that he was a part of the vast and harmonious whole.

Concerning his religious views he was exceedingly taciturn. He had no taste for metaphysical
or theological discussions, although his library contained a large number of standard works
on these subjects. Religion itself he never alluded to but with the deepest respect. Talking
to me of Christianity, he quoted the observation of Goethe, that "it had brought into the world
a light never to be extinguished." He spoke of Jesus with poetic, if not with Christian fervor.
He contrasted his teachings and deeds with the prevailing maxims and practice of the people
among whom he appeared, with the dead orthodoxy of its religious teachers, and with the general
ignorance and hypocrisy of the masses. "Had I lived in such a state of society," he said, "I
am certain that it would have driven me mad."

He expressed an earnest esteem for the doctrines of the Evangelical clergy, and even approved,
though more moderately, the religious awakenings which occur under their labors. He described
to me, with some particularity, a revival he had witnessed in his native town, when young;
and repeated some of the quaint exhortations of the lay brethren, all in a manner perfectly
serious, but calculated, perhaps, to leave the impression, that such views of religion were
not necessary to himself, although they might be quite suited to the minds of others.

The rational theology he regarded as anti-poetic in influence, and of very doubtful efficacy
in working upon the masses. He appreciated, however, the honesty and superior culture of the
Unitarian scholars and clergy of Boston, with many of whom he had been on terms as intimate
as his shyness accorded to any one.

He attended church but once with me while we were engaged in the survey. We heard a discourse
from a Rev. Dr. E----, upon the conduct of the young ruler who inquired his duty of Christ.
The speaker argued from the sacred narrative a universal obligation to devote our possessions
to religious purposes,--and upheld, as an example to all men, the self-devotion of a young
missionary (then somewhat known) who had despised a splendid fortune, offered him on condition
of his remaining at home, and had consecrated himself to the Christianization of Africa.

"How did you like the sermon?" I inquired of Percival.

"I consider it an animating and probably useful performance," he replied; "but it does not
accord with comprehensive conceptions of humanity, inasmuch as its main inference was drawn
from the exception, and not from the rule. There always have been, and probably always will
be, men possessed of the self-immolating or martyr spirit. Such instances are undoubtedly useful,
and have my admiration; but they cannot become general, and never were meant to be."

During the survey, we were invited to pass an evening in a family remarkable for its musical
talent, and I remember distinctly the evident pleasure with which Percival listened to the
chorus of organ tones and rich cultivated voices. In general, however, his appreciation of
music was subordinate to his study of syllabic movement in versification; and it was with reference
chiefly to poetic measure, I have been told, that he acquired what mastery he had over the
accordion and guitar.

Percival's favorite topics, when evening came and we rested from our stony labors, were the
modern languages and the philosophy of universal grammar. They seemed to have filled the niches
in his heart, from which he had banished, or tried to banish, the Muses. The subtile refinements
of Bopp were a perpetual luxury to him; he derived language from language as easily as word
from word; and, once started in the intricacies of the Russian or the Basque, there was no
predicting the end of the discourse. Thus were thrown away, upon a solitary listener, midnight
lectures which would have done honor to the class-rooms of Berlin or the Sorbonne. In looking
at such an instance of intellectual pleasure and acumen, as connected in no small degree with
the study of foreign languages, one cannot avoid associating together the unsolved mystery
of that discrepancy of tongues prevailing in different countries with the disagreeing floras
and faunas of the same regions,--each diversity bearing alike the unmistakable marks of Omnipotent
design for the happiness and improvement of man.

The perfection of his memory was amazing. During the year following the survey, when we had
frequent occasion to compare recollections, I observed that no circumstance of our labors was
shadowy or incomplete in his memory. He could refer to every trifling incident of the tour,
recall every road and path that we had followed, every field and ledge that we had examined,
particularize the day of the week on which we had dined or supped at such a tavern, and mention
the name of the landlord. I asked him how he was able to remember such minutiae. He replied,
that it was his custom, on going to bed, to call up, in the darkness and stillness, all the
incidents of the day's experience, in their proper order, and cause them to move before him
like a diorama through a spiritual morning, noon, and evening. "It has often appeared to me,"
he said, "that in this purely mental process I see objects more distinctly than I behold them
in the reality."

But his memory doubtless gained an immense additional advantage from his habitual seclusion,
from his unconcern with the distracting customs of society, and, most of all, from the imperturbable
abstraction under which he studied and observed. With him there was no blending of collateral
subjects, no permitted intrusion of things irrelevant or trivial, so that the channels of his
thoughts were always single, deep, and traceable. It was a mental straightforwardness and conscientiousness,
as rare, perhaps, as moral rectitude itself.

In diet, Percival was the most abstemious person I ever knew. His health was uniformly good,--the
specimens of a geologist, when he collects them himself, being as favorable to digestion and
appetite as the pebbles to a chicken; yet, I am persuaded, my companion in no case violated
the golden rule of leaving the table unsated. No matter how long had been his fast, he showed
no impatience of hunger, made no remark upon the excellence of any dish, found fault with nothing,
or, at most, only seemed to miss drinkable coffee and good bread, articles seldom to be met
with in the country. He ate slowly, selecting his food with the discrimination which ought
to belong to a chemist or physiologist, and then thought no more about it. Alcoholic drinks
he never tasted, except an occasional glass of wine, to which his attention perhaps had been
called on account of its age or superior excellence. Even then it was not the flavor which
interested him, so much as the history, geographical and other.

Peculiar as he was in his own habits of diet, he offered no strictures upon the practice of
others, however different, unless it ran into hurtful excesses. The maxim of Epictetus in the
"Enchiridion," "Never preach how others ought to eat, but eat you as becomes you," seemed to
be his rule. Indeed, Percival was one of those rare men who withhold alike censure and praise
respecting the minor matters of life. Not that he was without opinions on such subjects; but,
to obtain them, one was forced to question him. On the whole, I do not think it would be going
too far to apply to him the above-named moralist's description of the wise man:--"He reproves
nobody, praises nobody, blames nobody, nor even speaks of himself; if any one praises him,
in his own mind he contemns the flatterer; if any one reproves him, he looks with care that
he be not unsettled in the state of tranquillity that he has entered into. All his desires
depend on things within his power; he transfers all his aversions to those things which Nature
commands us to avoid. His appetites are always moderate. He is indifferent whether he be thought
foolish or ignorant. He observes himself with the nicety of an enemy or a spy, and looks on
his own wishes as betrayers."

Percival's solitary habits, combined with the invariable seriousness of his manner, led many
persons to believe him melancholy, and even disposed to suicide. He did, indeed, confess to
me, that he sometimes felt giddy on the edge of a precipice. This was his nearest approach,
I am confident, to the idea of self-destruction. While we were examining the great iron furnaces
of Salisbury, he told me that he was afraid of walking near the throat of a chimney when in
blast, and that more than once he had turned and run from the lurid, murky orifice, lest a
sudden failure of self-control should cause him to reel into the consuming abyss. No,--Percival
neither felt nor expressed disgust with life. On the contrary, he was strongly attached to
it; the acquisition of knowledge clothed it with inexpressible value; the longest day was ever
too short to fulfil his designs. Like the wise, laborious men of all ages, he almost repined
at the swiftness of the years. "I am amazed at the flight of time," he said to me, on the arrival
of his forty-second birthday; "it seems only a year since I was thirty-two;--I have lost ten
years of my life."

Before entering upon the survey of Connecticut, he was not specially devoted to any one branch
of physics, although his tastes inclined him most toward geology. While he could sympathize
perfectly, he said, with those who threw their whole force into a single study, he felt himself
attracted equally by the entire circle of Nature, and thought omniscience a nobler object of
ambition than any one science. He admitted that the search after all knowledge is incompatible
with eminence in any particular department; but he believed that it affords higher pleasure
to the mind, and confers ability to do signal service to mankind in pointing out the grand
connections, the general laws, of Nature.

It is not, perhaps, widely known, that Percival was a well-informed botanist. He studied this
branch when a medical student under Professor Ives, and assisted his instructor in laying out
a small botanical garden, the plants of which were arranged after the natural orders of Jussieu.
Soon after finishing his medical education, he gave a course of lectures on botany in Charleston,
South Carolina, before a very select audience, composed mostly of Ladies. The only drawback
to the lecturer's success was his excessive timidity. As an evidence of the assiduity with
which he botanized, it may be mentioned that he had seen the Geranium Robertianum (a plant
which nestles in the sunny clefts of our trap mountains) in bloom, during every month of the
year. One year he found its blossoms in December, another in January, and so on, until the
round of the monthly calendar was completed.

Percival was an earnest advocate of popular education. He manifested much interest in the first
systematic attempt (at the instance of Mr. James Brewster) to furnish the people of New Haven
with popular instruction in the form of lectures. At a public dinner, given by Mr. Brewster,
on the occasion of opening the building in which rooms had been fitted up for these lectures,
the late Mr. Skinner gave the toast, "Our mechanics, the right arm of New Haven," and Percival
followed with, "Science, the right eye which directs the right arm of New Haven." He believed
most fully in the superiority of intelligent labor. He pointed out cases in which a college-training
had been connected with signal eminence in mechanical invention, and said, that, according
to his observations, persons engaged in industrial pursuits usually succeeded in proportion
to the thoroughness of their education.

Percival himself gave a course of lectures, or rather, lessons, in New Haven,--not in the building
above mentioned, for his natural timidity was too great to encounter a public audience, but
in the theological lecture-room of Yale College. They were on the German language, and consisted
chiefly of translations of prose and poetry into English, intermingled with philosophical commentaries
on the peculiarities of the original. It was pure grammar; he did not talk German, and claimed
no acquaintance with the niceties of pronunciation; but all his listeners, most of whom were
graduates, were struck with his perfect mastery of the subject.

Percival held one peculiar opinion concerning a branch of college education. He objected to
the modern practice of teaching the natural sciences by means of a profusion of drawings, models,
showy experiments, and other expedients addressing the mind so strongly through the eye. While
these might be allowable in popular lectures, before audiences lacking in early intellectual
discipline, where amusement was a consideration, and where without it the public ear could
not be secured, he thought that the collegian should study differently,--that his understanding
should be taxed severely, and that he should be inured, from the first, to rigid attention,
in order to a lasting remembrance of the truths offered to him. It would be a useful exercise
for the instructor, he thought, to elucidate obscure phenomena and complicated structures by
words only, assisting himself, perhaps, occasionally, by extemporaneous drawings. Such a course
would inspire the scholar with deference for his teacher, and confidence in his own ability
to acquire a similar grasp of the subject. While there is certainly some truth in this opinion,
it would not be difficult, perhaps, to invalidate its general force. Why should the ear be
the only admitted means of acquiring knowledge? Nature, the greatest of teachers, does not
judge thus: she conveys half her wisdom to us by sight, instead of by faith; she gives her
first lessons to the infant through the eye. Would Percival, in looking for his attentive audiences,
have preferred a congregation of blind men?

Speaking of literary composition, he said that he often took great pains with his productions,
shifting words and phrases in many ways, before satisfying himself that he had attained the
best form of expression; and he assured me that these slowly elaborated passages were the very
ones in which he afterwards recognized the most ease and nature, and which others supposed
him to have thrown off carelessly. I asked him how it was that children, in their unpremeditated
way, expressed themselves with so much directness and beauty. They have but a single idea to
present at a time, he said; they seize without hesitation on the first words that offer for
its expression, unperplexed by any such choice of terms as would surely occur to maturer minds;
and most important of all, perhaps, they are wholly unembarrassed by limiting qualifications
arising from a fuller knowledge of the subject.

His prose style is a rare exemplification of classic severity and perspicuousness. In each
paragraph the ideas arrange themselves in faultless connection, like the molecules of a crystal
around its centre. The sentences are not long, the construction is simple, the words are English
in its purity, without admixture of foreign phrase or idiom. But the most striking peculiarity
of his diction is the utter absence of ornament; for Percival evidently held that the chief
merits of composition are clearness and directness. Poetic imagery, brilliant climaxes and
antitheses, fanciful or grotesque turns of expression, he rejected as unfavorable to that simple
truth for which he studied and wrote. This dry, almost mathematical style, was no necessity
with him; few men, surely, have had at command a richer vocabulary, English and foreign, than
Percival; few could have adorned thought with more or choicer garlands from the fields of knowledge
and imagination.

To letter-writing he had a great aversion. I have never seen a letter or note from him to which
his signature was attached. The autograph-fanciers, therefore, will find a scanty harvest when
they come to forage after the name of Percival. His handwriting corresponded in some sense
with his character. It was fine; the lines straight and parallel; the letters completely formed,
though without fulness of curve; no flourishes, and no unnecessary prolongations of stroke,
above or below the general run of the line. There were few erasures, the punctuation was perfect,
and the manuscript was fit for the press as it left his hand.

Literary criticism he rarely indulged in, being too disinclined to praise or blame, and too
intensely devoted to the acquisition of positive knowledge. If he commented severely upon anything,
it was usually the slovenly diction of some of our State Surveys, or the inaccuracies of translations
from foreign languages.

His only published criticism, of which I am aware, was discharged at a phrenological lecturer,
whose extraordinary assumptions and ad-captandum style had excited his disgust. Percival did
not reverence the science of bumps, and believed, in the words of William Von Humboldt, that
"it is one of those discoveries which, when stripped of all the charlatanerie that surrounds
them, will show but a very meagre portion of truth." Dr. Barber, an Englishman, and a somewhat
noted teacher of elocution, having been converted to the phrenological faith, delivered certain
magniloquent lectures on the same to the citizens of New Haven, and took pay therefor, after
the manner of his sect. Percival responded with a sharp newspaper pasquinade, entitled "A Lecture
on Nosology." At the head of the article was a wood-cut of a gigantic nose, mapped out into
faculties. "Gentlemen, the nose is the most prominent feature in this bill," commenced the
parody. "The nose is the true seat of the mind; and therefore, gentlemen, Nosology, or the
science of the nose, is the true phrenology. He, who knows his nose, foreknows; for he knows
that which is before him. Therefore Nosology is the surest guide to conduct. Whatever progress
an individual may make, his nose is always in advance. But society is only a congeries of individuals;
consequently its nose is always in advance,--therefore its proper guide. The nose, rightly
understood, will assuredly work wonders in the cause of improvement; for it is always going
ahead, always first in every undertaking, always soonest at the goal. The ancients did not
neglect the nose. Look at their busts and statues! What magnification and abduction in Jove!
What insinuation and elongation in the Apollo! Then [Greek: nous] (intellect) was surely the
nose,--[Greek: gnosis] (knowledge) noses,--[Greek: Minos] my nose. What intussusception, what
potation, and, as a necessary consequence, alas! what rubification! But I have seen such noses.
Beware of them!--they are bad noses,--very bad noses, I assure you.... Do not, I pray you,
consider me irreverent, if I say that Nosology will prove highly favorable to the cause of
religion. This is indeed an awful subject, and I would not touch it on slight grounds; but
I sincerely believe that what I say is true. Nosology will prove highly favorable to the cause
of religion! Does not the nose stand forth like a watchman on the walls of Zion, on the look-out
for all assailants? and when our faces are directed upwards in devotion, does not the nose
ascend the highest and most especially tend heavenward?... Nosology is a manly science. It
stands out in the open light. It does not conceal itself behind scratches and periwigs,--nor
does it, like certain false teachers mentioned by St. Paul, go about from house to house, leading
astray silly women......Finally, gentlemen, you may rest assured that Nosology will not gently
submit to insult. Noli me tangere! Who ever endured a tweak of the nose? It will know how to
take vengeance. As Jupiter metamorphosed the inhospitable Lycians into frogs, so its contemners
will suddenly find themselves [Greek: Barbarophonoi]!"

Percival has been thought over-tenacious of his opinions. He was certainly very circumspect
in changing them. I have witnessed, however, several instances in which he yielded to the force
of evidence in the modification of his views. He seemed to recognize geology, in particular,
as a progressive science, in which new facts are constantly accruing, and therefore compelling
re-adaptations of our views. He felt, indeed, in respect to all knowledge, the mathematics
excepted, that modifications of belief, in well-regulated minds, are unavoidable, as the result
of new information. Approach to higher truth through the sciences he seemed to regard under
the aspect of that of besiegers to a beleaguered fortress. Principles and deductions, which
were a boon and a triumph for us yesterday, lose their value to-day, when a new parallel of
approach has been attained. He lost his interest in what was abandoned, necessary as it had
been to the present position, only in the advantage of which, and its sure promise of what
was still higher, he allowed himself to rejoice.

But where evidence was wanting, he was never to be moved to a change by any amount of importunity
or temptation. This trait of character made him somewhat impracticable as a collaborator, in
the philological task he was employed to perform under Dr. Noah Webster. Disagreements were
to have been anticipated from the striking contrasts in their minds. They agreed in industry;
but Webster was decided, practical, strongly self-reliant, and always satisfied with doing
the best that could be done with the time and means at command. Percival was timid and cautious,
and, from the very breadth of his linguistic attainments, undecided. He often craved more time
for arriving at conclusions. When he happened to differ from the great lexicographer, he would
never yield an iota of his ground. These differences led to an early rupture in the engagement,
almost before two letters of the alphabet had been completed. He much preferred to relinquish
a profitable undertaking to going forward with it under circumstances not agreeable to his
elevated standard of literary accuracy and completeness. He felt that he could live on bread
and water, or even give up these, if necessary; but he could not violate his convictions of
what was true and right. He was a perfect martyr to his literary and scientific conscientiousness.

He evinced the same spirit in respect to the geological survey. As his mind was not satisfied,
he would not make known his results to the Legislature. They demanded the report, and he asked
for an extension of time. Thus he continued his labors from year to year, upon a stipend scarcely
adequate to cover his expenses. Instead, however, of nearing the goal, he only receded from
it. New difficulties met him in the work; fresh questions arose, in the progress of geology
itself, that called for reëxaminations. His notes swelled to volumes, and his specimens increased
to thousands. He was in danger of being crushed under the weight of his doubts and his materials.
At last, the people clamored for the end of the work. The Legislature became peremptory, and
forced Percival to acquiesce.

In 1842 (seven years from the commencement of the survey) he rendered an octavo report of four
hundred and ninety-five pages, in the introduction to which he observes,--"I regret to say,
I have not had the means allowed me for additional investigations, nor even for a proper use
of my materials, either notes or specimens. The number of localities from which I have collected
specimens I have estimated at nearly eight thousand; the records of dips and bearings are still
more numerous. The report which follows is but a hasty outline, written mainly from recollection,
with only occasional reference to my materials, and under circumstances little calculated for
cool consideration. It was written, however, with an intention to state nothing of the truth
or probability of which I did not feel satisfied. None can regret more than I do its imperfection;
still I cannot but hope that it will contribute something towards the solution of the problem
of the highest practical as well as scientific importance, the exact determination of the geological
system of the State."

Of this remarkable production it may very briefly be said, that it will ever remain a monument
to the scientific and literary powers of its author. It describes every shade of variation
in the different rocks, and their exact distribution over the surface of the State. This it
accomplishes with a minuteness never before essayed in any similar work. The closeness and
brevity of his descriptions make it one of the dryest productions ever issued on geological
science, scarcely omitting the work of Humboldt, in which he sought to represent the whole
of geology by algebraic symbols. Percival's work actually demands, and would richly repay,
a translation into the vernacular of descriptive geology,--the language and mode of illustration
employed by Murchison and Hitchcock. In its present form, it is safe to say, it has never found
a single reader among the persons for whose benefit it was written.

It is no part of my plan to speak of his poetical reputation. This I leave to others better
able to do him justice. Indeed, he had nearly abandoned poetical composition before our acquaintance
began. But it is safe, perhaps, to say here, that his writings have placed him among the first
of our national poets; and had he resumed this species of composition, he could scarcely have
failed of maintaining, in the fullest manner, his poetic fame. He possessed all the qualities
reckoned essential to poetical excellence. We have already spoken of his astonishing memory,
a trait regarded of such importance to the poet by the ancients as to have led them to call
the Muses the daughters of this mental faculty. His powers of abstraction and imagination were
no less remarkable,--while for extreme sensitiveness he was unsurpassed. His judgment was clear,
and his appreciation of language refined to the last degree. His musical feeling, too, as well
of time as of harmony, was intense; while he had at command the universal stores of literature
and science.

In closing these reminiscences, I cannot avoid noticing some of the useful impressions exerted
by Percival upon the literary community amidst which he passed so large a portion of his life.
To some the influence of such a recluse will doubtless seem insignificant. The reverse, however,
I am persuaded, was the fact. Few students came to New Haven without bringing with them, imprinted
on their youthful memories, some beautiful line of his poetry. Few had not heard of his universal
scholarship and profound learning. Next to an acquaintance with the teachers from whom they
expected to derive their educational training, their curiosity led them to inquire for Percival.
The sight of this modest, shrinking individual, as the possessor of such mines of intellectual
wealth, it may well be understood, produced the deepest interest. In him they recognized a
man superior to the clamor of vulgar gratification; his indifference to gain, to luxury, and
every form of display, his constant preference of the spiritual over the sensual, was always
an impressive example to them. The indigent student took fresh courage as he saw in him to
what a narrow compass exterior wants might be reduced; the man of fashion and the fop stood
abashed before the simplicity of his dress and daily life. And wherever the spirit of classic
literature had been imbibed, and the capacity acquired of perceiving the severe worth of the
true philosopher, the inspection of such a character, compared with the mere description of
it in history, was like the difference between a statue and a living, breathing man. As at
early dawn or in the gray twilight his slender form glided by, the thoughtful and poetic scholar
could scarce refrain from uttering to himself,--"There goes Diogenes or Chrysippus! There goes
one, by the side of whom many a bustler in letters is only a worthless drone, many an idolized
celebrity a weak and pitiful sham!" Such a character as Percival's, in the presence of a scholastic
community, was a perpetual incentive to industry and manliness; and although he rarely spoke
in its hearing, and has left us fewer published works than many others, still I believe that
thousands yet live to thank him for lessons derived from the simple survey of his daily life.

Though there is little likelihood that his example of self-abnegation and devotion to study
will be followed by many of our youth, nevertheless, the occurrence of such a model now and
then in the republic of letters constitutes a pleasing as well as useful phenomenon,--if for
no other reason, because it breaks in upon the monotony of literary biography, and communicates
a portion of that picturesqueness to scholastic life which belongs to Nature in everything
else. That his course was fraught with happiness to himself cannot be doubted; that it was
beneficial also to his fellow-men is equally true; and though he may be judged less leniently
by minds incapable of pronouncing that to be a character honorable in the sight of God or man,
which deviates from their own standard or creed,--to others, who recognize the highest possible
cultivation of the mental faculties and unsullied purity of life as the noblest ends of our
being, he will ever occupy a position shared by few of mortal race.

       *       *       *       *       *

ZELMA'S VOW.

IN TWO PARTS.

PART FIRST. HOW IT WAS MADE.

Who does not remember his first play?--the proudly concealed impatience which seemed seething
in the very blood,--the provoking coolness of old play-goers,--the music that rather excited
than soothed the fever of expectation,--the mystery of mimic life that throbbed behind the
curtain,--the welcome tinkle of the prompter's bell,--the capricious swaying to and fro of
that mighty painted scroll,--its slow uplift, revealing for an instant, perhaps, the twinkle
of flying dancers' feet and the shuffle of belated buskins? And then, the unveiled wonders
of that strange, new world of canvas and pasteboard and trap-doors,--people, Nature, Art, and
architecture, never before beheld, and but faintly conceived of,--the magic of shifting scenes,--the
suddenness and awfulness of subterranean and aerial descents and ascents,--the solemn stage-walk
of the heroine,--the majestic strut of the hero,--the princely sweep of velvet,--the illusive
sparkle of paste,--the rattle of Brobdignagian pearls,--the saucy tossing of pages' plumes,--the
smiles, the wiles, the astonishing bounds and bewildering pirouettes of the dancing Houries,--the
great sobs and small shrieks of persecuted beauty,--the blighting smile of the villain,--the
lofty indifference of supernumeraries!

It was the first play of our heroine, Zelma Burleigh, and of her Cousin Bessie. The morning
before, a fragrant May morning, scores of summers ago, Roger Burleigh, a stout Northumbrian
Squire, had rolled himself, in his ponderous way, into the snug family-parlor at the Grange,
and addressed his worthy dame with a bluff--

"Well, good wife, wouldn't like to go see the players to-night?"

Ere the good lady could collect herself to reply with the decorous deliberateness becoming
her years and station, an embroidery-frame at her side was overturned, and there sprang eagerly
forward a comely young damsel of the pure Saxon stock, with eyes like England's violets,--clear,
dewy, and wide-awake,--cheeks and lips like its rose-bloom, and hair which held tangled in
close, golden folds its fickle and flying sunshine.

"Ay, father!" she cried, "that we would! Zelma and I have never seen any players, save the
tumblers over at the Hall, on Sir Harry's birthday, and we are in sad need of a little pleasuring."

"Who spoke to you, or of you, Mistress Bessie?" replied the Squire, playfully. "And what is
all your useless, chattering life but pleasuring? The playhouse is but a perilous place for
giddy-brained lasses like you; but for once, harkee, for once, we'll venture on taking you,
if you'll promise to keep your silly head safe under the mother-hen's wing."

"Not so close but that I can get a peep at the players now and then," said Bessie, archly.
"They say there are some handsome young men and a pretty woman or two among them. Eh, Zelma?"

"Handsome young men!--pretty women!" exclaimed the Squire, with an explosive snort of contempt.
"An arrant set of vagabonds and tramps,--of ranting, strutting, apish creatures, with neither
local habitations nor names of their own. And what does Zelma know about them? Out with it, girl!"

The person thus addressed, without lifting the folds of a heavy window-curtain which concealed
her, replied in a quiet, though somewhat haughty tone,--

"I saw them all, yesterday afternoon, on their way to Arden. I found them near the entrance
to our avenue. One of their carts had broken down, and somebody was hurt. I dismounted to see
if I could be of any assistance. My pony pulled away from me and ran up the road. One of the
young men caught her for me. I told Cousin Bessie I thought him handsome and proud enough for
a lord. I think so still. That is all I know of the players."

"And, gad, that's enough! Take you to the play, indeed! Why, we shall have you strolling next,
like your"--Here the Squire, for some reason known to himself, suddenly paused and grew very
red in the face. Dame Margery took the word, and, in a tone meant to be severe, but which was
only dry, remarked,--

"Zelma is quite too young to go to the play."

"Just one week younger than my Cousin Bessie. So, please you, aunt, I will wait a few days,"
was the quiet reply from the invisible.

"Right cleverly answered, lass!" said the Squire, with a good-humored chuckle. "Well, we will
try you, too, for once; but mind, if I find you making eyes at any of the villains, I'll cut
you off with a shilling."

"That is more than I look for from you, Uncle Roger," replied the hitherto hidden speaker,
emerging from the window-seat, holding in her hand the fashionable and interminable novel of
"Sir Charles Grandison." As she spoke, she laughed lightly, but her voice was somewhat cold
and bitter, and there was in her laugh more of defiance than merriment.

"Oh, don't, Zella!" exclaimed the Squire, with a look of comic deprecation,--"don't speak in
that way to your old uncle! He's blunt and rough-spoken, but he means kindly, and does kindly,
in his way,--don't he?"

"Yes, that he does!" said the young girl, frankly; "and I beg his pardon for my pettishness."

Zelma Burleigh, as she stood thus, a faint, regretful smile softening the habitual hauteur
of her face, was beautiful, and something more; yet nobody in the country round about the Grange
had ever dreamed of calling her "a beauty." She was a tall, gracefully-formed girl, with that
strong, untamable character of figure and feature, and that peculiar, sun-tinted, forest-shadowed
hue of the skin, which betray the slightest admixture of gypsy blood. In fact, Zelma Burleigh
was the fruit of a strange mésalliance between the younger brother of the Squire, a reckless,
dissipated soldier of fortune, and a beautiful Spanish Zineala, whom he met in a foreign campaign,
and whom he could not bind to himself by any tie less honorable than marriage. She was said
to be of Rommany blood-royal, and was actually disowned by her tribe for her mésalliance. She
followed the camp for a few years, the willing, though sad and fast-fading slave of her Ishmaelitish
lord, himself the slave of lawless passions, yet not wholly depraved, --fitfully tender and
tyrannic,--and when, at last, he fell in some inglorious skirmish, she buried him with her
own hands, and wept and fasted over his shallow grave till she died. There was a child, but
she had no look of the father to charm that poor, broken heart back to life; she was left in
the camp and became a little "Daughter of the Regiment." At last, however, she was taken to
England by a faithful comrade of the dead soldier, who sought out her uncle and left her in
his care, taking leave of the frightened, clinging little creature with a grim, unspoken tenderness,
and a strange quiver of his gray moustache.

Roger Burleigh, after having made himself sure of the legitimacy of the child, adopted the
poor, wild thing, made her the companion of his daughter, and honestly strove to treat her,
at all times, with parental care and affection.

Here, in the hospitable circle of an English home, the orphan alien had grown up with her kinsfolk,
but not of them,--proud, reticent, ambitious, secretly hating the monotonous duties and pursuits,
the decorous forms and prescribed pleasures of the social and domestic life around her. Nomadic
and lawless instincts stirred in her blood; vague longings for freedom and change, though in
wandering, peril, and want, sometimes filled her soul with the spirit of revolt and unrest.

In her bluff uncle's house all were kind, and one, at least, was fond. Her Cousin Bessie, gay
and tender heart, had found the southern exposure of her nature, and had crept up it, and clambered
over it, and clasped it, and bloomed against it, and ripened on it, till nothing cold, hard,
or defiant could be seen on that side. And Zelma seemed well content to be the sombre background
and strong support of so much bloom, sweetness, and graceful dependence.

Nothing could be more unlike than the two cousins. Bessie was small, her form inclining to
fulness, her face childlike in dimpled smiles and innocent blushes,--betraying no lack of intellect,
but most expressive of a quiet, almost indolent amiability. Zelma was large, but lithe, supple,
and vigorous, with a pard-like freedom and elasticity of movement,--dark, with a subdued and
changing color,--the fluttering signal of sudden emotion, not the stationary sign of robust
health. She had hair of a glistening blackness, which she wore turned back from a strong, compact
forehead, in the somewhat severe style which imperial beauty has rendered classic in our time.
Her eyes were of the Oriental type,--full, heavy-lidded, ambushed in thick, black lashes,--themselves
dark and unfathomable as the long night of mystery which hangs over the history of her wild
and wandering race, those unsubduable, unseducible children of Nature,--the voluntary Pariahs
of the world. Sad were those eyes always, but with a vague, uncommunicable sadness; soft they
were in times of quiet; beautiful and terrible they could be, with live gleams of suddenly
awakened passion.

With but one affection not poisoned by a sense of obligation and condescension, and that a
sentiment in which her intellect had little share, a gentle, protective, household love, which
quickened no daring fancy, inspired no dream of freedom or power, Zelma's mind was driven in
upon itself, and out of the seclusion and triteness of her life fashioned a fairy world of
romance and beauty. With the high-wrought, sentimental fictions of the day for her mental aliment,
she grew more and more distinct and apart from the actual, prosaic existences around her; the
smouldering fires of genius and ambition glowed out almost fiercely at times, through the dark
dream of her eyes, startling the dullest apprehension, as she moved amid a narrow circle of
country gentry, the fox-hunting guests of her uncle, the prim gossips of her aunt, the gay
lovers and companions of her cousin, an unrecognized heroine, an uncrowned tragedy-queen.

The small provincial town of Arden possessed no playhouse proper, but, after a good deal of
hesitation and discussion, the venerable Hall of St. George, the glory of all Ardenites, had
been accorded to the players, "for a few nights only."

On the night of the first performance, Squire Burleigh and his family arrived betimes, and
took their places with some bustle and ceremony.

The master of Burleigh Grange appeared in the almost forgotten glory of his court suit,--a
coat of crimson velvet, a flowered waistcoat, satin knee-breeches, and a sword at his side.
The mistress wore an equally memorable brocade, enormous bouquets thrown upon a silvery ground,
so stiff and shiny that it seemed a texture of ice and frozen flowers. Her hair was cushioned
and powdered; she looked comely and stately, and wore her lustres well. The pretty Bessie was
attired in maidenly white muslin, an India fabric of marvellous fineness, with a sash and streamers
of blue, and the light fleecy curls of her hair unadorned save by a slight pendent spray of
jasmines. Her cousin's dress, though in reality less costly, was more striking, being composed
of materials and colors which admirably harmonized with the darkness and richness of her beauty.
Her lustrous black hair was arranged as usual; but a wreath, formed of some delicate vine hung
thick with drooping scarlet blossoms, ran like flowering flame around her head. Like the sumptuous
exotic of Zenobia, it was an ornament which seemed to bloom out of the character of the woman.

Bessie cast about her bright, innocent looks of girlish curiosity, which yet shrank from any
chance encounter with the furtive glance or cool stare of admiration. Zelma sat motionless
and impassive. Her eyes wandered naturally, but coldly, over the audience, seeming to take
no cognizance of any face, strange or familiar; but when they were lifted above the crowd,
to the old carved ceiling of the hall, or dropped upon the beautiful hands which lay listlessly
folded in her lap, the cold, blank look she had set against the world went out of them. Then,
in their mystic depths of brooding, introverted thought, new spheres of life, rarer, brighter,
fairer, seemed rounding into form and dawning like stars.

Mrs. Margery Burleigh sat with her face turned from the stage, to dissemble the secret impatience
with which she awaited the uprolling of the curtain, and slowly waved to and fro a huge, flowered
fan, which charged the air with a heavy Indian perfume.

At length, soft, mournful music arose from the orchestra, and every heart stirred to the premonitory
waver and lift of the curtain. Slowly it rose, and discovered a mourning apartment, with a
lady in mourning, sitting in a mourning chair, and attended by a mourning maid. The play was
Congreve's tragedy of "The Mourning Bride," one of the best of a class of sentimental and stiltified
dramatic productions which the public of our great-grandfathers meekly accepted,--quaffing
the frothy small-beer of rant and affectation, in lieu of deep draughts of Nature and passion,
the rich, red wine of human life, poured generously forth by the dramatists of a better era.
The excesses of fashion then prevailing, hoops, high heels, powder, and patches, were not more
essentially absurd and artificial than such representations of high-life and high-tragedy.

"The Mourning Bride" contains a few situations in which real passion can have play, some fine
points and poetic passages, and its moral tone is at least respectable,--not great things to
say of a famous tragedy, certainly, but they give it an honorable distinction over many plays
of its time. There figure in it one or two characters which can be made interesting, and even
impressive, by uncommon power in the actor; though they were usually given, at the period of
which I write, in a manner sufficiently tame to suit the dullest of courts,--likely to disturb
neither my lord in his napping nor my lady in her prim flirting.

Zara, the Captive Queen, is beyond comparison the strong character of this play. There is a
spice and fire even in her wickedness, which make her terribly attractive, and give her a more
powerful hold on the sympathies than the decorous and dolorous Almeria, for all her virtuous
sorrows and perplexities. Zara's passion is of the true Oriental type, leaping from the extremes
of love and hate with the fierceness and rapidity of lightning.

It is a character in which several great actresses have distinguished themselves,--chief among
them Siddons. On the memorable night at Arden, however, it was but wretchedly rendered by a
tall, small-voiced, flaxen-haired young woman, who stalked about the stage in high-heeled shoes
and prodigious hoops, and declaimed the most fiery passages with an execrable drawl. The remainder
of the company were barely passable as strolling players, with the exception of the actor who
personated Osmyn. This was a young man named Bury, of respectable parentage and education,
it was said, and considerable reputation, though his aspiring buskin had never yet trod the
London boards. He was a handsome, shapely person, with an assured, dashing manner, and a great
amount of spirit and fire, which usually passed with his audience, and always with himself,
for genius.

His voice was powerful and resonant, his elocution effective, if not faultless, and his physical
energy inexhaustible. Understanding and managing perfectly his own resources, he produced upon
most provincial critics the impression of extraordinary power and promise, few perceiving that
he had already come into full possession of his dramatic gifts.

Only finely-trained ears could discover in this sounding, shining metal the lack of the sharp,
musical ring of the genuine coin. Young men grew frantic in applause of his bold action, his
stormy declamation, his startling tours de force; while young women wondered, wept, languished,
and swooned. It was said, that, whenever he died in Romeo, Pierre, or Zanga, numbers of his
fair slain were borne out of the playhouse, to be revived with difficulty by the application
of salts and the severing of stay-lacings.

But his effects, though so positive, were superficial and evanescent,--audible, visible, and,
as it were, physical. There was always wanting that fine shock of genuine passion, striking
home to kindred passions in the breasts of his auditors, and sending through every nerve a
magnetic shiver of delight,--that subtile, mysterious element of genius, playing like quick
flame along the dullest lines of the poet and charging them with its own life and fire.

In the virtuous, but negative character of Osmyn there was little room for effective declamation;
our actor was fain to content himself with being interesting, through the misfortunes of the
Prince of Valentia, his woful lawful love, and the besettings of an unreturned passion. In
this he succeeded so well, that the feminine portion of his audience grew tender with Almeria,
and despairing with Zara.

In the first scene with Almeria, who was a shade worse than the Zara of the night, the young
actor indulged himself in a cool, comprehensive glance at the house, over her fair shoulders.
As his keen gaze swept round the small aristocratic circle, it encountered and seemed to recognize
the face of Zelma Burleigh, now kindling with a new enthusiasm, which was never wholly to die
out of her breast. There was something in the watchful, absorbed gaze of her great dark eyes
so unlike the wondering or languishing looks usually bent by women upon the rising actor, that
on the instant he was struck, pierced, by those subtile shafts of light, to the heart he had
believed till then vowed alone to the love of his art and the schemes of a sleepless ambition.

Reluctantly he withdrew his regard from a face which bespoke a character of singular originality
and force, not wanting either in womanly pride or tenderness,--a face in which beauty itself
was so subordinate to something higher, more ineffable, that one could scarcely define feature
or color through the illuminated and changeful atmosphere of soul which hung about it,--the
shadows of great thoughts, the light mists of dreamy and evanescent fancy.

It was toward the close of the second act, when Sir Harry Willerton, of Willerton Hall, entered
his box, accompanied by three or four dashing companions, who, it was soon whispered about,
were titled young bloods from London.

Sir Harry Willerton was a fresh, frank-looking young gallant,--fast, from the fiery impulses
of youth and a high spirit,--not pricked on by vanity, nor goaded by low passions,--not heartless,
not blasé,--the only kind of a rake for whom reformation is possible or reclamation worth the
while.

Sir Harry was not fond of tragedy; and after five minutes' strained attention to the players,
he turned his eyes from the stage, and began casting easy, good-humored glances of curiosity
or recognition over the audience. He bowed to all his neighbors with a kindly familiarity,
untainted by condescension, but most courteously, perhaps, to the party from the Grange. He
liked the bluff Squire heartily,--as who did not? Then his eye--a laughing blue eye it was--rested
and lingered, not on the dark, dramatic face of Zelma, but on the pretty, girlish head of her
cousin.

Bessie sat with her face partly averted from the baronet's gay party, and her gaze fixed intently
upon the stage. Sir Harry could only see half the rose of one cheek, and the soft sweep of
golden hair which lightly shaded it; and feasting his fancy on that bit of fluctuating color,
entangled in the meshes of a tremulous screen of curls, he settled himself to await the close
of the act.

It was with a child's eager interest and pliant imagination that Bessie looked and listened,--susceptible,
credulous, unfastidious. To her, the Osmyn of the night was radiant with all heroic qualities
and manly graces, the weakly simulated sorrow of Almeria brought real tears to her eyes, and
she drew her white shoulders forward with a shudder when the wooden Zara kindled into cursing
and jealous rage. Illusions most transparent to others hoodwinked her senses; her willing fancy
supplied feeling, and even made up for deficiencies of art in the players, till the mimic world
before her became more real than reality.

Not so with Zelma. She was satisfied, even charmed, with the personation of Osmyn; but, from
the first, she could not abide either of the heroines, who, each in her part, strove to outdo
the other in mincing, mouthing, attitudinizing, and all imaginable small sins against Nature
and Art. She saw at once, by the sure intuitions of genius, how everything they did could be
done better, and burned to do it. The part of Almeria she soon dismissed from her thoughts,
as mere milk-and-water; but she saw that in that of Zara there was a stream of lava, though
dulled and crusted over by the coldness of the actress, which might be made to sweep all before
it. Her critical dissatisfaction with the personation became, at last, little short of torture;
there was an involuntary lowering of her dark brows, a scornful quiver of her spirited nostril,
she bit her lip with angry impatience, and shrugged her shoulders with irrepressible contempt.

In the great scene where Zara surprises Almeria in the cell of Osmyn, it was astonishing how
the flaxen-haired representative of the Captive Queen managed to turn her fiery rain of curses
into a little pattering shower of womanish reproaches. It was really a masterly performance,
in its way.

At this point Zelma threw herself back in utter weariness and disgust, exclaiming, audibly,--"Miserable!--most
miserable." When, looking round, she saw the traces of her cousin's innocent emotion, the flush
and tearfulness which bespoke her uncritical sympathy with passions so unskilfully represented,
she could not suppress a smile at such childish simplicity. And yet this was also her first play.

The tragedy was succeeded by a farce, at which Bessie laughed as heartily as she had wept a
little while before, but which was utterly distasteful to Zelma; and at an alarmingly late
hour, for that quiet community, the green curtain came heavily plunging down on the final scene
of all, and the audience dispersed to their homes.

On the day following, Sir Harry Willerton's guests returned to town, but, to their surprise,
unaccompanied by their host, who seemed to have suddenly discovered that his presence was needed
on his estate. So he remained. Soon it was remarked that a singular intimacy had sprung up
between him and Squire Burleigh, with whom, at length, the larger portion of his time was passed,
either in following the hounds or dining at the Grange. There were rumors and surmises that
the attractions which drew the young baronet to his bluff neighbor's hospitable hall were not
the Squire's hearty cheer, old wine, and older stories, but a pair of shy, yet tender eyes,--red
lips, that smiled a wordless welcome, and sometimes pouted at a late coming,--cheeks whose
blushes daily grew warmer in love's ripening glow,--a voice whose tones daily grew deeper,
and seemed freighted with more delicious meanings.

There was little discussion as to which of the young ladies of the Grange was the enchantress
and the elect Lady Willerton.

"Surely," said the gossips, "it cannot be that gypsy niece of the Squire, that odd, black-browed
girl, who scours over the country in all weathers, on that elfish black pony, with her hair
flying,--for all the world as though in search of her wild relations. No, the blood of the
Willertons would never run so low as that;--it must be sweet Miss Bessie, and she is a match
for a lord."

For once the gossips were right. But it is with the poor "Rommany girl," not with the heiress
of Burleigh Grange, that we have to do.

On the morning succeeding the play, Zelma Burleigh, taking in her hand an odd volume of Shakspeare,
one of the few specimens of dramatic literature which her uncle's scant library afforded, strolled
down a lonely lane, running back from the house, toward the high pasture-lands, on which grazed
and basked the wealthy Squire's goodly flocks and herds. This was her favorite walk, as it
was the most quiet, shaded, out-of-the-way by-path on the estate. She now directed her steps
to a little rustic seat, almost hidden from view by the pendent branches of an old willow-tree,
and close under a hawthorn-hedge, now in full, fragrant bloom. Here she seated herself, or
rather flung herself down, half languidly, half petulantly, an expression of ennui and unrest
darkening her face,--the dusky traces of a sleepless night hanging heavily about her eyes.
She opened her book at the play of "Romeo and Juliet," and began to read, not silently, nor
yet aloud, but in a low, dreamy tone, in which the sounds of Nature about her, the gurgle of
a brook behind the hedge, the sighing of the winds among the pendulous branches of the willow,
the silver shiver of the lance-like leaves, the murmurous coming and going of bees, the loving
duets of nest-building birds, all seemed to mingle and merge. As she read, a new light seemed
to illumine the page, caught from her recent experience of dramatic personation and scenic
effects, limited and unsatisfactory though that experience had been. In fancy, she floated
over the stage, as the gay young Juliet at the masquerade; then she caught sight of young Romeo,
and, lo! his face was that of the sentimental hero of the last night's tragedy, but ennobled
by the glow and dignity of genuine passion. In fancy, she sat on the balcony, communing with
night and the stars,--the newly-risen star of love silvering all life for her. Then, leaning
her cheek upon her hand, she poured forth Juliet's impassioned apostrophe. When she came to
the passage,--

  "O Romeo, Romeo!--wherefore art thou Romeo?"

she was startled by a rustling of the leaves behind her. She paused and looked round fearfully.
A blackbird darted out of the hedge and away over the fields. Zelma smiled at her own alarm,
and read on, till she reached the tender adjuration,--

  "Romeo, doff thy name;
  And for thy name, which is no part of thee,
  Take all myself!"

when,--suddenly, a fragrant shower of hawthorn-blossoms fell upon the page before her, and
the next instant there lightly vaulted over the hedge at her side the hero of her secret thoughts,
the young player, Lawrence Bury! He stood before her, flushed and smiling, with his head uncovered,
and in an attitude of respectful homage; yet, with a look and tone of tender, unmistakable
meaning, took up the words of the play,--

  "I take thee at thy word.
  Call me but love, and I'll be new-baptized;
  Henceforth I never will be Romeo."

Poor Zelma did not have the presence of mind to greet this sudden apparition of a lover in
the apt words of her part,--

  "What man art thou, that, thus bescreened in night,
  So stumblest on my counsel?"

She had no words at all for the intruder, but, frightened and bewildered, sprang from her seat
and turned her face toward home, with a startled bird's first impulse to flight. As she rose,
her book slid from her lap and fell among the daisies at her feet. The actor caught it up and
presented it to her, with the grace of a courtly knight restoring the dropped glove of a princess,
but, as he did so, exclaimed, in a half-playful tone, looking at the volume rather than the lady,--

"I thank thee, O my master, for affording me so fair an excuse for mine audacity!"

Then, assuming a more earnest manner, he proceeded to make excuses and entreat pardon for the
suddenness, informality, and presumption of his appearance before her:--

"You know, Madam," he said,--"if, indeed, you are so unfortunate as to know anything about
us,--that we players are an impulsive, unconventional class of beings, lawless and irresponsible,
the Gypsies of Art."

Here Zelma flushed and drew herself up, while a suspicious glance shot from her eyes;--but
the stranger seemed not to understand or perceive it, for he went on quite innocently, and
with increasing earnestness of tone and manner:--

"I know I have been presuming, impertinent, audacious, in thus intruding myself upon you, and
acknowledge that you would be but severely just in banishing me instantly from your bright
presence, and in withdrawing from me forever the light of your adorable eyes. Oh, those eyes!"
he continued, clasping his hands in an ecstasy of lover-like enthusiasm, --"those wild, sweet
orbs!--bewildering lights of love, dear as life, but cruel as death!--can they not quicken,
even as they slay? Oh, gentle lady, be like her of Verona!--be gracious, be kind, or, at least,
be merciful, and do not banish me!--

  'For exile hath more terror in his look,
  Much more, than death; do not say banishment!'"

He paused, but did not remove his passionate looks from the young girl's face,--looks which,
though cast down, for he was much the taller of the two, had the effect of most lowly and deprecating
entreaty;--and then there happened an event,--a very slight, common, natural event,--the result
more of girlish embarrassment than of any conscious emotion or purpose, yet of incalculable
importance at that moment, and, perhaps, decisive of the fate of two human hearts,--Zelma smiled.
It was a quick, involuntary smile, which seemed to escape from the firm lips and half-averted
eyes, flashed over the face, touched the cold features with strange radiance, and then was
gone,--and, in its place, the old shadow of reserve and distrust, for the moment, darker than ever.

But to the adventurous lover that brief light had revealed his doubtful way clear before him.
He saw, with a thrill of exultation, that henceforth he had really nothing to fear from such
womanly defences as he had counted on,--coldness, prejudice, disdain,--that all he had taken
for these were but unsubstantial shadows. Still he showed no premature triumph in word or look,
but remained silent and humble, waiting the reply to his passionate appeal, as though life
or death, in very truth, were depending upon it. And Zelma spoke at last,--briefly and coldly,
but in a manner neither suspicious nor unfriendly. She herself, she said, was unconventional,
in her instincts, at least,--so could afford to pardon somewhat of lawlessness in another,--especially,
she added, with a shy smile, in one whom Melpomene, rather than Cupid, had made mad. Still
she was not a Juliet, though he, for all she knew, might be a Romeo; and only in lands verging
on the tropics, or in the soul of a poet, could a passion like that of the gentle Veronese
spring up, bud, and blossom, in a single night. As for her, the fogs of England, the heavy
chill of its social atmosphere, had obstructed the ripening sunshine of romance and repressed
the flowering of the heart--

"And kept your beautiful nature all the more pure and fresh!" exclaimed Mr. Lawrence Bury,
with real or well-assumed enthusiasm; but Zelma, replying to his interruption only by a slight
blush, went on to say, that she had been taught that poetry, art, and romances were all idle
pastimes and perilous lures, unbecoming and unwholesome to a young English gentlewoman, whose
manifest destiny it was to tread the dull, beaten track of domestic duty, with spirit chastened
and conformed. She had had, she would acknowledge, some aspirations and rebellious repinings,
some wild day-dreams of life of another sort; but it was best that she should put these down,--yes,
doubtless, best that she should fall into her place in the ranks of duty and staid respectability,
and be a mere gentlewoman, like the rest.--Here a slight shrug of the shoulders and curl of
the lip contradicted her words,--yet, with a tone of rigid determination, she added, that it
was also best she should cherish no tastes and form no associations which might distract her
imagination and further turn her heart from this virtuous resolution; and therefore must she
say farewell, firmly and finally, to the, she doubted not, most worthy gentleman who had done
her the honor to entertain for her sentiments of such high consideration and romantic devotion.
She would not deny that his intrusion on her privacy had, at first, startled and displeased
her,--but she already accepted it as an eccentricity of dramatic genius, a thoughtless offence,
and, being, as she trusted, at once the first and the last, pardonable. She wished him happiness,
fame, fortune,--and a very good morning! Then, with a wave of the hand which would have done
honor to Oldfield herself, she turned and walked proudly up the lane.

Mr. Bury saw her depart silently, standing in a submissive, dejected attitude, but with a quiet,
supercilious smile lightly curling his finely-cut lips; for did he not know that she would
return to her haunt the next day, and that he would be there to see?

And Zelma did return the next day,--persuading herself that she was only acting naturally,
and with proper dignity and independence. She argued with herself that to abandon her favorite
walk or avoid her usual resting-place would be to confess, if not a fear of the stranger's
presuming and persistent suit, at least, a disturbing consciousness of his proximity, and of
the possibility of his braving her displeasure by a second and unpardonable intrusion. No,
she would live as she had lived, freely, carelessly; she would go and come, ride and walk,
just as though nothing had happened,--for, indeed, nothing had happened that a woman of sense
and pride should take cognizance of. So, after a half-hour's strange hesitation, she took her
book and went to the old place. Longer than usual she sat there, idly and abstractedly turning
over the leaves of her Shakspeare, starting and flushing with every chance sound that broke
on the still, sweet air; yet no presumptuous intruder disturbed her maiden meditations, and
she rose wearily at last, and walked slowly homeward, saying to herself, "It is well. I have
conquered," but feeling that nothing was well in life, or her own heart, and that she was miserably
defeated. Ah, little did she suspect that her clouded, dissatisfied face had been keenly scanned
by the very eyes she dreaded, yet secretly longed to meet,--that her most unconscious sigh
of disappointment had been heard by her Romeo of the previous day, now lying just behind the
hedge, buried in the long brook-side grass, and laughing to himself a very pleasant laugh of
gratulation and triumph.

That night, the good Squire of Burleigh Grange relented from his virtuous resolve, and took
his wife, daughter, and niece to the play.

The piece was Howe's tragedy of "Tamerlane." Mr. Bury personated the imperial Tartar, a noble
rôle, which so well became him, costumes and all, and brought him so much applause, that Zelma's
heart was effectually softened, and she even felt a regretful pride in having received and
rejected the homage of a man of such parts.

The next day, as the hour for her stroll arrived, she said to herself, "I can surely take my
walks in safety now,--he will never come near me more." So she went,--but, to her unspeakable
confusion, she found him, quietly seated in her little rustic bower, his head bared to the
sunshine, and his "Hyperion curls" tossed and tumbled about by a frolicsome wind. He rose when
the lady appeared, stammered out an apology, bowed respectfully, and would have retired, but
that Zelma, feeling that she was the intruder this time, begged him to remain. She thought
herself, simple child! merely courteous and duly hospitable, in giving this invitation; but
the quick, eager ear of the actor and lover heard, quivering through the assumed indifference
and cold politeness of her tones, the genuine impulse and ardent wish of her heart. So he yielded
and lingered, proffering apologies and exchanging polite commonplaces.

After a little time, Zelma, to prove her freedom from embarrassment or suspicion, quietly seated
herself on the rustic bench, giving, as she did so, a regal spread to her ample skirts, that
there might be no vacant place beside her. The actor stood for a while before her, just going,
but never gone, talking gayly, but respectfully, on indifferent topics,--till, at last, touching
on some theme of deeper interest, and apparently forgetting everything but it and the fair
lady, who neither expressed nor looked a desire to shorten the interview, he flung himself,
with what seemed a boy's natural impulse, upon the soft, inviting turf, under the shade of
the willow. There, reclining in the attitude of Hamlet at the feet of Ophelia, he rambled on
from subject to subject, in a careless, graceful way, plucking up grass and picking daisies
to pieces, as he talked, giving every now and then, from beneath the languid sweep of his heavy
eyelashes, quick flashes of tender meaning, as fitful and beautiful as the "heat-lightnings"
of summer twilights, and apparently as harmless.

There was something so magnetic and contagious in this frank, confiding manner, that Zelma,
ere she was aware, grew unrestrained and communicative in turn. One by one, the icicles of
pride and reserve, which a strange and ungenial atmosphere had hung around her affluent and
spontaneous nature, melted in the unwanted sunshine, dropped away from her, and the quick bloom
of a Southern heart revealed itself in smiles and blushes. The divine poet whose volume she
now held clasped caressingly in both hands had prepared the way for this, by sending through
every vein and fibre of her being the sweet, subtile essence of passionate thought,--the spring-tide
of youth and love, which makes the story of Romeo and Juliet glow and throb with immortal freshness
and vitality.

So, at length, those two talked freely and pleasantly together. They discussed the quiet rural
scenery around them, the deep green valley of Arden, shut in by an almost unbroken circle of
hills, and Zelma told of a peculiar silvery mist which sometimes floated over it, like the
ghost of the lake which, it was said, once filled it; they spoke of wood, stream, moor, and
waterfall, sunsets and moonlight and stars, poetry and--love; floating slowly, and almost unconsciously,
down the smooth current of summer talk and youthful fancies, toward the ocean of all their
thoughts, whose mysterious murmurs already filled one heart at least with a tender awe and
a vague longing, which was yet half fear.

The next day, and the next, and every day while the players remained at Arden, the two friends
met by tacit agreement in the lane of Burleigh Grange, and, gradually, Lawrence Bury became
less the actor and more the man, in the presence of a genuine woman, without affectation or
artifice, stage-rant or art-cant,--one from whose face the glare of the foot-lights had not
stricken the natural bloom, whose heart had never burned with the feverish excitement of the
stage, its insatiable ambition, its animosities and exceeding fierce jealousies. For Zelma,
she grew more humble and simple and less exacting, the more she bestowed from a "bounty boundless
as the sea."

It was but a brief while, scarcely the lifetime of a rose,--the fragrant snow of the hawthorn
blossoms had not melted from the hedges since they met,--and yet, in that little season, the
deepest, divinest mystery of human life had grown clear and familiar to their hearts, and was
conned as the simplest lesson of Nature.

To Zelma the romance and secrecy of this love had an inexpressible charm. The Zincala in her
nature revelled in its wildness and adventure, in its crime against the respectable conventionalities
she despised. She had a keen pleasure in the very management and concealment to which she was
compelled;--her imagination, even more than her heart, was engaged in hiding and guarding this
charming mystery.

On the day succeeding her first interview with the young actor in the lane, she had tried to
beguile her ennui, while lingering in her lonely bower, by curiously peering into the nest
of a blackbird, deeply hidden in the long grass at the foot of the hedge, and which she had
before discovered by the prophetic murmurs of the mother-bird. She found five eggs in the nest.
She took the little blue wonders in her hand, and thought what lives of sinless joy, what raptures
and loves, what exultations of song and soaring slept in those tiny shells! Suddenly, there
was an alarmed cry and an anxious flutter of wings in the hedge above her! She turned, and
saw the mother-bird eyeing her askance. From that day the lowly nest with its profaned treasures
was forsaken, and the world was the poorer in gladness and melody by five bird-lives of joy
and song that might have been.

So, had any luckless intruder chanced to discover Zelma's trysting-place, thrown open to the
world the hidden romance in which she took such shy and secret delight, and handled in idle
gossip the delicate joys and fragile hopes of young love, it is more than likely that she would
have been frightened away from bower and lane, shocked and disenchanted. But the preoccupation
of her cousin and her own eccentric and solitary habits prevented suspicion and inquiry,--no
unfriendly spy, no rude, untoward event, disturbed the quiet and seclusion of this charmed
scene of her wooing, where Nature, Romance, and Poetry were in league with Love.

The players played out their engagement at Arden, with the usual supplement, "A few nights
only by special request," and were off to a neighboring town. On their last night, after the
play, Zelma met her lover by moonlight, at the trysting-place in the lane, for a parting interview.

It was there that the actor, doffing the jaunty hat which usually crowned his "comely head,"
and, flinging himself on his knees before his fair mistress, entreated her to rule his wayward
heart, share his precarious fortunes, and bear his humble name.

Poor Zelma, when in imagination she had rehearsed her betrothal scene, had made her part something
like this:--"And then will I extend my hand with stately grace, and say to my kneeling knight,
'Arise!'--and after, in such brief, gracious words as queens may use, (for is not every woman
beloved a queen?) pronounce his happy doom."

But when that scene in her life-drama came on, it was the woman, not the tragedy-queen, that
acted. Naturally and tenderly, like any simple girl, she bent over her lover, laid her hand
upon his head, and caressingly smoothed back from his brow the straggling curls, damp with
night-dew. As she did so, every lock seemed to thrill to her touch, and to wake in her soft,
timorous fingers a thousand exquisite nerves that had never stirred before. And then, with
broken words and tears, and probing questions and solemn adjurations, she plighted her vows,
and sought to bind to her heart forever a faith to which she trusted herself, alas! too tremblingly.

The melodramatic lover was not content with a simple promise, though wrung from the heart with
sobs. "Swear it to me!" he said, in a hoarse stage-whisper; and Zelma, again laying her hand
upon his head, and looking starward, swore to be his, to command, to call, to hold,--in life,
in death, here, hereafter, evermore.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE,

ATTORNEY AT LAW AND SOLICITOR IN CHANCERY. From 1780, when this was written, to the present
day, the search after well-authenticated particulars of Shakespeare's life has been kept up
with a faithfulness equal to that of Sir Palomides after the beast glatisaunt, and by as many
devotees and with as much hope of glory as in the quest for the Sangreal. But the fortune of
the paynim, rather than the virgin knight, has fallen to all the members of the self-devoted
band, and we know little more of the man Shakespeare than was known by our great-grandfathers.
For, although there have been issued to us of the present generation pamphlets professing to
give new particulars of the life of Shakespeare, and tomes with even more pretentious titles,
from all these there has been small satisfaction, save to those who can persuade themselves,
that, by knowing what Shakespeare might have done, they know what he did, or that the reflex
of his daily life is to be found in documents inscribed on parchment, and beginning, "This
indenture made," etc., or "Noverint universi per presentes." It is with no disrespect for the
enthusiasm of Mr. Knight, and as little disposition to underrate the laborious researches of
Mr. Collier and Mr. Halliwell, that we thus reiterate the assertion of the world's ignorance
of Shakespeare's life: nay, it is with a mingled thankfulness and sorrowful sympathy that we
contemplate them wasting the light of the blessed sun (when it shines in England) and wearing
out good eyes (or better barnacles) in poring over sentences as musty as the parchments on
which they are written and as dry as the dust that covers them. But although we gladly concede
that these labors have resulted in the diffusion of a knowledge of the times and the circumstances
in which Shakespeare lived, and in the unearthing of much interesting illustration of his works
from the mould of antiquity, we cannot accept the documents which have been so plentifully
produced and so pitilessly printed,--the extracts from parish-registers and old account-books,--not
Shakespeare's,--the inventories, the last wills and testaments, the leases, the deeds, the
bonds, the declarations, pleas, replications, rejoinders, surrejoinders, rebutters, and surrebutters,--as
having aught to do with the life of such a man as William Shakespeare. We hunger, and we receive
these husks; we open our months for bread, and break our teeth against these stones. As to
the law-pleadings, what have their discords, in linked harshness long drawn out, to do with
the life of him whom his friends delighted to call Sweet Will? We wish that they at least had
been allowed to rest.

Why awaken the slumbering echoes of their living strife?

[Footnote A: Commenced actor, commenced author, commenced tinker, commenced tailor, commenced
candlestick-maker:--Elegant phraseology, though we venture to think, hardly idiomatic or logical,
which came into vogue in England in the early part of the last century, and which, as it is
never uttered here by cultivated people, it may be proper to remark, is there used by the best
writers. Akin to it is another mode of expression as commonly met with in English books and
periodicals, e.g., "immediately he arrived at London he went upon the stage," meaning, as soon
as he arrived, etc., or, when he arrived at London, he immediately went upon the stage. As
far as our observation extends, Lord Macaulay, alone of all Great-Britons, has neglected to
add the latter lucid construction to the graces of his style.]

Yet these very law-papers, in the reduplicated folds of which dead quarrels lie embalmed in
hideous and grotesque semblance of their living shapes, their lifeblood dried that lent them
all their little dignity, their action and their glow, and exhaling only a faint, sickening
odor of the venom that has kept them from crumbling into forgetfulness,--these law-papers are
now held by some to have special interest Shakespeare-ward, as having to do with a profession
for which he made preparatory studies, even if he did not enter upon its practice. Yes, in
spite of our alleged ignorance of Shakespeare's life, and especially of the utter darkness
which has been thought to rest upon the years which intervened between his marriage in Stratford
and his joining the Lord Chamberlain's company of players in London, the question is, now,
whether the next historical novel may not begin in this wise:--

CHAPTER I.

THE FUGITIVE.

At the close of a lovely summer's day, two horsemen might have been seen slowly pacing through
the main street of Stratford-on-Avon. Attracting no little attention from the group of loiterers
around the market-cross, they passed the White-Lion Inn, and, turning into Henley Street, soon
drew their bridles before a goodly cottage built of heavy timbers and standing with one of
its peaked gables to the street. On the door was a shingle upon which was painted,

  Willm. Shakspere,

  Attornei at Lawe and Solicitor
  in Chancere.

One of the travellers--a grave man, whose head was sprinkled with the snows of fifty winters--dismounted,
and, approaching the door, knocked at it with the steel hilt of his sword. He received no answer;
but presently the lattice opened above his head, and a sharp voice sharply asked,--

"Who knocks?"

"'Tis I, good wife!" replied the horseman. "Where is thy husband? I would see him!"

"Oh, Master John a Combe, is it you? I knew you not. Neither know I where that unthrift William
is these two days. It was but three nights gone that he went with Will Squele and Dick Burbage,
one of the player folk, to take a deer out of Sir Thomas Lucy's park, and, as Will's ill-luck
would have it, they were taken, as well as the deer, and there was great ado. But Will--that's
my Will--and Dick Burbage, brake from the keepers in Sir Thomas' very hall, and got off; and
that's the last that has been heard of them; and here be I left a lone woman with these three
children, and----Be quiet, Hamnet! Would ye pour my supper ale upon the hat of the worshipful
Master John a Combe?"

"What! deer-stealing?" exclaimed John a Combe. "Is it thus that he apes the follies of his
betters? I had more hope of the lad, for he hath a good heart and a quick engine; and I trusted
that ere now he had drawn the lease of my Wilmecote farm to Master Tilney here. But deer-stealing!--like
a lord's son, or a knight's at the least. Could not the rifling of a rabbit-warren serve his
turn? Deer-stealing! I fear me he will come to nought!"

The speaker remounted, and soon the two horsemen might again have been seen wending their way
back through the deepening twilight.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are several points that would be novel in such a passage. Among others, we would modestly
indicate the incident of the two horsemen as evincing some ingenuity, and as likely to charm
the reader by its freshness and originality. But one point, we must confess, is not new, and
that is the representation of Shakespeare as a lawyer. The supposition, that the author of
"Macbeth," "Hamlet," and "King Lear," was a bustling young attorney, is of respectable age,
and has years enough upon its beard, if not discretion. It has been brought forward afresh
by two members of the profession for which is claimed the honor of having Shakespeare's name
upon its roll,--William L. Rushton, Esquire, a London Barrister, and John Campbell, Lord Chief
Justice of the Queen's Bench.[B] Lord Campbell, indeed, addressing himself to Mr. John Payne
Collier, says, (p. 21,) that this is a notion "first suggested by Chalmers, and since countenanced
by Malone, yourself, and others." An assertion this which savors little of legal accuracy.
I. Part I. p. 307.

[Footnote B: Shakespeare a Lawyer. By William L. Rushton. 16mo. pp. 50. London: 1858.

Shakespeare's Legal Acquirements Considered. By John Lord Campbell, LL.D., F.R.S.E. 12mo. pp.
117. London: 1859.]

[Footnote C: Into the trap so innocently set the London Athenaeum thus plunges headlong:--"Chalmers,
we believe, first put Shakespeare in an attorney's office. Malone accepted the hint."]

To this, Chalmers, some years after, (1797,) in his "Apology for the Believers in the Shakespeare
Papers which were exhibited in Norfolk Street," (some contemptible forgeries, by a young scapegrace
named William Ireland, which should not have deceived an English scholar of six months' standing,)
made the following reply:--

"Mr. Malone places the aspiring poet 'in the office of some country attorney, or the seneschal
of some manor court'; and for this violation of probability he produces many passages from
his dramas to evince Shakespeare's technical skill in the forms of law. ...But was it not the
practice of the times, for other makers, like the bees tolling from every flower the virtuous
sweets, to gather from the thistles of the law the sweetest honey? Does not Spenser gather
many a metaphor from these weeds, that are most apt to grow in fattest soil? Has not Spenser
his law-terms: his capias, defeasance, and duresse; his emparlance; his enure, essoyn, and
escheat; his folkmote, forestall and gage; his livery and seasin, wage and waif? It will be
said, however, that, whatever the learning of Spenser may have gleaned, the law-books of that
age were impervious to the illiterature of Shakespeare. No: such an intellect, when employed
on the drudgery of a wool-stapler, who had been high-bailiff of Stratford-upon-Avon, might
have derived all that was necessary from a very few books; from Totell's 'Presidents,' 1572;
from Pulton's 'Statutes,' 1578; and from the 'Lawier's Logike,' 1588. It is one of the axioms
of the 'Flores Regii,' that, To answer an improbable imagination is to fight against a vanishing
shadow."--p. 553.

And again, in his "Supplemental Apology," etc., 1799, Chalmers remarks,--

"The biographers, without adequate proofs, have bound Shakespeare an apprentice to some country
attorney; as Mr. Malone has sent him without sufficient warrant to the desk of some seneschal
of a county court: but these are obscurities that require other lights than conjecture and
assertion, which, by proving nothing, only establish disbelief."--p. 226.

So much for Chalmers's having "first suggested" the theory, of which Lord Campbell has undertaken
the support. Surely his Lordship must have been verifying Rosalind's assertion, that lawyers
sleep between term and term, or else he is guilty of having loosely made a direct assertion
in regard to a subject upon which he had not taken the trouble to inform himself; although
he professes (p. 10) to have "read nearly all that has been written on Shakespeare's ante-Londinensian
life, and carefully examined his writings with a view to obtain internal evidence as to his
education and breeding."

One exhibition of his Lordship's inaccuracy is surprising. Commenting upon Falstaff's threat,
"Woe to my Lord Chief Justice!" (2d Henry IV., Act V., Sc. 4,) he remarks, (p. 73,) "Sir W.
Gascoigne was continued as Lord Chief Justice in the new reign; but, according to law and custom,
he was removable, and he no doubt expected to be removed, from his office." Lord Campbell has
yet to rival the fifth wife of the missionary who wrote the lives of "her predecessors"; but
surely he should have known that the expectations which he attributes to Sir William Gascoigne
were not disappointed, and that (although the contrary is generally believed) the object of
Falstaff's menace was superseded (by Sir William Hankford) March 29th, 1413, just eight days
after the prince whom he committed to prison came to the throne,--a removal the promptness
of which would satisfy the strictest disciplinarian in the Democratic party. The Records show
this; but his Lordship need not have gone to them; he would have found it mentioned, and the
authority cited, by Tyler in his "Memoirs of Henry the Fifth."

And while we are considering the disparity between his Lordship's performances and his pretensions,
we may as well examine his fitness to bring about a "fusion of Law and Literature," which he
says, with some reason, have, like Law and Equity, been too long kept apart in England. We
fear, that, whatever may be the excellence of his Lordship's intentions, he must set himself
seriously to the task of acquiring more skill in the use of the English tongue, and a nicer
discrimination between processes of thought, before his writings will prove to be the flux
that promotes that fusion.

For, in the third paragraph of his letter, he says to Mr. Collier, "I cannot refuse to communicate
to you my sentiments upon the subject," and in the following sentence adds, that this communication
of his "sentiments" will drive from his mind "the recollection of the wranglings of Westminster
Hall." His Lordship probably meant to refer to the communication of his opinions, for which
word "sentiments" is not usually substituted, except by gentlemen who remark with emphasis,
"Them's my sentiments"; and he also probably intended to allude to the memory of the wranglings
of which he is professionally a witness,--having forgotten, for a moment, that recollection
is a purely voluntary act, and not either a condition or a faculty of the mind.

Again, when his Lordship says, (p. 18,) "That during this interval (A.D. 1579 to 1586) he [Shakespeare]
was merely an operative, earning his bread by manual labor, in stitching gloves, sorting wool,
or killing calves, no sensible man can possibly imagine" we applaud the decision; but can hardly
do as much for the language in which it is expressed.

A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act V. Sc. 1.

We would not protract this finding of faults, and will only add, that, when his Lordship says,
(p. 116,) that Henry V. "astonished the world with his universal wisdom" he entirely overlooks
the fact, that wisdom is a faculty of the mind, or, rather, a mode of intellectual action,
of which universality can no more be predicated than of folly, or of honesty, or of muscular
strength; and that it is not knowledge, or at all like knowledge; which, indeed, is often acquired
in a very remarkable degree by persons eminent for unwisdom. Lord Campbell might as well have
said that Henry V. astonished the world with his universal prowess in the battle-field.

The censure to which Mr. Rushton's pamphlet is occasionally open in regard to style may properly
be averted by the modesty of its tone and its unpretending character.

But to pass from the manner to the matter of the learned gentlemen who appear on behalf of
Malone's theory. Lord Campbell, after stating, in the introductory part of his letter, that
in "The Two Gentlemen of Verona," "Twelfth Night," "Julius Caesar," "Cymbeline," "Timon of
Athens," "The Tempest," "King Richard II.," "King Henry V.," "King Henry VI., Part I.," "King
Henry VI., Part III.," "King Richard III.," "King Henry VIII.," "Pericles," and "Titus Andronicus,"--fourteen
of the thirty-seven dramas generally attributed to Shakespeare,--he finds "nothing that fairly
bears upon this controversy," goes on to produce from the remaining plays, seriatim, such passages
as in his judgment do bear upon the question, and to remark upon them, thus isolated and disconnected
from each other. Mr. Rushton is more methodic and logical. He does not merely quote or cite
all the passages which he has noticed in which legal terms occur, but brings together all such
as contain the same terms or refer to kindred proceedings or instruments; and he thus presents
his case with much more compactness and consequent strength than results from Lord Campbell's
loose and unmethodical mode of treating the subject. We can arrive at the merits of the case
on either presentation only by an examination of some of the more important of the passages cited.

Lord Campbell, as we have just seen, mentions "Henry VIII." as one of the fourteen plays in
which he has found nothing which relates to the question in hand; but Mr. Rushton opens his
batteries with the following passage from the very play just named; and to most readers it
will seem a bomb of the largest dimensions, sent right into the citadel of his opponents:--

  "Suff. Lord Cardinal, the king's further pleasure is,--
  Because all those things you have done of late
  By your power legatine within this kingdom
  Fall into compass of a premunire,--
  That therefore such a writ be sued against you,
  To forfeit, all your goods, lands, tenements,
  Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
  Out of the king's protection:--this is my
  charge."

King Henry VIII. Act iii. Sc. 2.

We shall first remark, that, in spite of his declaration as to "Henry VIII.," Lord Campbell
does cite and quote this very passage (p. 42); and, indeed, he must have been as unappreciative
as he seems to have been inaccurate, had he failed to do so; for, upon its face, it is, with
one or two exceptions, the most important passage of the kind to be found in Shakespeare's
works. Premunire is thus defined in an old law-book which was accessible to Shakespeare:--

"Premunire is a writ, and it lieth where any man sueth any other in the spirituall court for
anything that is determinable in the King's Court, and that is ordeined by certaine statutes,
and great punishment therefore ordeined, as it appeareth by the same statutes, viz., that he
shall be out of the King's protection, and that he be put in prison without baile or mainprise
till that he have made fine at the King's will, and that his landes and goods shal be forfait,
if he come not within ij. moneths."--Termes de la Ley, 1595, fol. 144.

The object of the writ was to prevent the abuse of spiritual power. Now, here is a law-term
quite out of the common, which is used by Shakespeare with a well-deployed knowledge of the
power of the writ of which it is the name. Must we, therefore, suppose that Shakespeare had
obtained his knowledge of the purpose and the power of this writ in the course of professional
reading or practice? If we looked no farther than Shakespeare's page, such a supposition might
seem to be warranted. But if we turn to Michael Drayton's "Legend of Great Cromwell," first
published, we believe, in 1607, but certainly some years before "Henry VIII." was written,
and the subject of which figures in that play, we find these lines,--

  "This Me to urge the Premunire wonne,
  Ordain'd in matters dangerous and hie;
  In t' which the heedlesse Prelacie were runne
  That back into the Papacie did fie."

Ed. 1619, p. 382.

Here is the very phrase in question, used with a knowledge of its meaning and of the functions
of the writ hardly less remarkable than that evinced in the passage from "Henry VIII.," though
expressed in a different manner, owing chiefly to the fact that Drayton wrote a didactic poem
and Shakespeare a drama. But Drayton is not known to have been an attorney's clerk, nor has
he been suspected, from his writings, or any other cause, to have had any knowledge of the
law. Both he and Shakespeare, however, read the Chronicles. Reading men perused Hall's and
Holinshed's huge black-letter folios in Queen Elizabeth's time with as much interest as they
do Macaulay's or Prescott's elegant octavos in the reign of her successor, Victoria. Shakespeare
drew again and again upon the former for the material of his historical plays; and in writing
"Henry VIII.," he adopted often the very language of the Chronicler. (as you may perceive in
this storie) was of a great stomach, for he compted himselfe equall with princes, and by craftie
suggestion gat into his hands innumerable treasure: he forced little on simonie, [i.e., regarded
it as of little consequence,] and was not pittifull, and stood affectionate in his owne opinion:
in open presence he would lie and saie untruth, and was double both in speach and meaning:
he would promise much and performe little: he was vicious of his bodie, and gave the clergie
evill example."--Ed. 1587, vol. iii. p. 622.

Turning back from the page on which the Chronicler comments upon the life of the dead prime-minister,
to that on which he records his fall, we find these passages:--

"In the meane time, the king, being informed that all those things that the cardinall had doone
by his power legatine within this realme were in the case of the premunire and provision, caused
his attornie, Christopher Hales, to sue out a writ of premunire against him. ...After this
in the king's bench his matter for the premunire being called upon, two atturneis which he
had authorised by his warrant, signed with his owne hand, confessed the action, and so had
judgement to forfeit all his lands, tenements, goods, and cattels, and to be out of the king's
protection."--Ib. p. 909.

If the reader will look back at the passage touching the premunire, quoted above, he will see
that these few lines from Raphael Holinshed are somewhat fatal to an argument in favor of Shakespeare's
"legal acquirements," in so far as it rests in any degree upon the use of terms or the knowledge
displayed in that passage. Shakespeare and Drayton are here in the same boat, though "not with
the same sculls."

Before we shelve Holinshed,--for the good Raphael's folios are like Falstaff in size, if not
in wit, and, when once laid flat-long, require levers to set them up on end again,--let us
see if he cannot help us to account for more of the "legalisms" that our Lord Chief Justice
and our barrister have "smelt out" in Shakespeare's historical plays. Mr. Rushton quotes the
following passages from "Richard II.":--

  "York. Is not Gaunt dead? and doth not
  Hereford live?
  Act ii. Sc. I.

  "Bol. I am denied to sue my livery here,
  And yet my letters patents give me leave:
  My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold;
  And these, and all, are all amiss employed.
  What would you have me do? I am a subject,
  And challenge law: Attorneys are denied me;
  And therefore personally I lay my claim
  To my inheritance of free descent."--Ib. Sc. 3.

And Lord Campbell, although he passes by these passages in "Richard II.," quotes, as important,
from a speech of Hotspur's in the "First Part of Henry IV.," the following lines, which, it
will be seen, refer to the same act of oppression on the part of Richard II. towards Bolingbroke:--

  "He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
  To sue his livery and beg his bread."
  Act iv. Sc. 3.

But, here again, Shakespeare, although he may have known more law than Holinshed, or even Hall,
who was a barrister, only used the law-terms that he found in the paragraph which furnished
him with the incident that he dramatized. For, after recording the death of Gaunt, the Chronicle
goes on:--

"The death of this duke gave occasion of increasing more hatred in the people of this realme
toward the king; for he seized into his hands all the rents and reuenues of his lands which
ought to have descended vnto the duke of Hereford by lawfull inheritance, in reuoking his letters
patents which he had granted to him before, by virtue whereof he might make his attorneis generall
to sue liverie for him of any manner of inheritances or possessions that might from thencefoorth
fall unto him, and that his homage might be respited with making reasonable fine," etc.--HOLINSHED,
Ed. 1587, p. 496.

The only legal phrase, however, in these passages of "Richard II," which seems to imply very
extraordinary legal knowledge, is the one repeated in "Henry IV.,"--"sue his livery,"--which
was the term applied to the process by which, in the old feudal tenures, wards, whether of
the king or other guardian, on arriving at legal age, could compel a delivery of their estates
to them from their guardians. But hence it became a metaphorical expression to mean merely
the attainment of majority, and in this sense seems to have been very generally understood
and not uncommonly used. See the following from an author who was no attorney or attorney's
clerk:--

  "If Cupid
  Shoot arrows of that weight, I'll swear devoutly
  H'as sued his livery and is no more a boy."
  FLETCHER'S Woman's Prize, Act ii. Sc. 1.

And this, from the works of a divine:--

  "Our little Cupid hath sued livery
  And is no more in his minority."
  DONNE'S Eclogues, 1613.

Spenser, too, uses the phrase figuratively in another sense, in the following passage,--which
may be one of those which Chalmers had in his eye, when, according to Lord Campbell, he "first
suggested" that Shakespeare was once an attorney's clerk:--

  "She gladly did of that same Babe accept,
  As of her owne by liverey and seisin;
  And having over it a litle wept,
  She bore it thence, and ever as her owne it kept."
  Faërie Queene, B. VI. C. iv. st. 37.

So, for an instance of the phrase "fee," which Lord Campbell notices as one of those expressions
and allusions which "crop out" in "Hamlet," "showing the substratum of law in the author's mind,"--

  "We go to gain a little patch of ground,
  That hath in it no profit but the name.
  To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
  Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
  A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee,"--
  Act iv. Sc. 2.

and of which Mr. Rushton quotes several instances in its fuller form, "fee simple,"--we have
but to turn back a few stanzas in this same canto of the "Faërie Queene," to find one in which
the term is used with the completest apprehension of its meaning:--

  "So is my lord now seiz'd of all the land,
  As in his fee, with peaceable estate,
  And quietly doth hold it in his hand,
  Ne any dares with him for it debate."
  Ib. st. 30.

And in the next canto:--

  "Of which the greatest part is due to me,
  And heaven itself, by heritage in fee."
  Ib. C. vii. st. 15.

And in the first of these two passages from the "Faërie Queene," we have two words, "seized"
and "estate," intelligently and correctly used in their purely legal sense, as Shakespeare
himself uses them in the following passages, which our Chief Justice and our barrister have
both passed by, as, indeed, they have passed many others equally worthy of notice:--

  "Did forfeit with his life all those his lands
  Which he stood seiz'd of to the conqueror."
  Hamlet, Act i. Sc. 1.

  "The terms of our estate may not endure
  Hazard so near us," etc.--Ib. Act iii. Sc. 3.

Among the most important passages cited by both our authors is one that every reader of Shakespeare
will recollect, when it is mentioned to him,--Hamlet's speech over the skull in the grave-digging
scene. But although this speech is remarkable for the number of law-terms used in it, only
one of them seems to evince any recondite knowledge of the law. This is the word "statutes,"
in the following sentence:--

  "This fellow might be in's time a buyer of
  land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
  fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries."
  Act v. Sc. 1.

The general reader supposes, we believe, and very naturally, that here "statutes" means laws,
Acts of Parliament concerning real estate. But, as Mr. Rushton remarks, (Malone having explained
the term before him,) "The statutes referred to by Hamlet are, doubtless, statutes merchant
and statutes staple." And "a statute merchant (so called from the 13th Edward I., De mercatoribus)
was a bond acknowledged before one of the clerks of the statutes merchant, and the mayor, etc.,
etc. A statute staple, properly so called, was a bond of record, acknowledged before the mayor
of the staple," etc., etc.

Here we again have a law-term apparently so out of the ken of an unprofessional writer, that
it would seem to favor the Attorney and Solicitor theory. But let us see if the knowledge which
its use implies was confined to Shakespeare among the dramatists of his time.

In Fletcher's "Noble Gentleman," a comedy, first performed in 1625, we find a lady, sorely
pushed for ready cash, crying out,--

  "Take up at any use: give bond, or land,
  Or mighty statutes, able by their strength
  To tie up my Samson, were he now alive."
  Act i. Sc. 1.

And in Middleton's "Family of Love," (where, by the way, the Free-Love folk of our own day
may find their peculiar notions set forth and made the basis of the action, though the play
was printed two hundred and fifty years ago,) we find a female free-loveyer thus teaching a
mercantile brother of the family, that, although she has a sisterly disregard for some worldly
restraints, she yet keeps an eye on the main chance:--

"Tut, you are master Dryfab, the merchant; your skill is greater in cony-skins and woolpacks
than in gentlemen. His lands be in statutes: you merchants were wont to be merchant staplers;
but now gentlemen have gotten up the trade; for there is not one gentleman amongst twenty but
his lands be engaged in twenty statutes staple."

Act i. Sc. 3.

And in the very first speech of the first scene of the same play, the husband of this virtuous
and careful dame says of the same "Gerardine," (who, as he is poor and a gentleman, it need
hardly be said, is about the only honest man in the piece,)--"His lands be in statutes." And
that poor debauchee, Robert Greene, who knew no more of law than he might have derived from
such limited, though authentic information as to its powers over gentlemen who made debts without
the intention of paying them, as he may have received at frequent unsolicited interviews with
a sergeant or a bum-bailiff, has this passage in his "Quip for an Upstart Courtier," 1592:--

"The mercer he followeth the young upstart gentleman that hath no government of himself and
feedeth his humour to go brave; he shall not want silks, sattins, velvets to pranke abroad
in his pompe; but with this proviso, that he must bind over his land in a statute merchant
or staple; and so at last forfeit all unto the merciless mercer, and leave himself never a
foot of land in England."

Very profound legal studies, therefore, cannot be predicated of Shakespeare on the ground of
the knowledge which he has shown of this peculiar kind of statute.

It is not surprising that both our legal Shakespearean commentators cite the following passage
from "As You Like It" in support of their theory; for in it the word "extent" is used in a
sense so purely technical, that not one in a thousand of Shakespeare's lay readers now-a-days
would understand it without a note:--

  Duke F. Well, push him out of doors,
  And let my officers of such a nature
  Make an extent upon his house and lands."
  Act iii. Sc. 1.

"Extent," as Mr. Rushton remarks, is directed to the sheriff to seize and value lands and goods
to the utmost extent; "an extendi facias" as Lord Campbell authoritatively says, "applying
to the house and lands as a fieri facias would apply to goods and chattels, or a capias ad
satisfaciendum to the person." But that John Fletcher knew, as well as my Lord Chief Justice,
or Mr. Barrister Rushton, or even, perhaps, William Shakespeare, all the woes that followed
an extent, the elder Mr. Weller at least would not have doubted, had he in the course of his
literary leisure fallen upon the following passage in "Wit Without Money" (1630):--

  "Val Mark me, widows
  Are long extents in law upon men's livings,
  Upon their bodies' winding-sheets; they that enjoy 'em
  Lie but with dead men's monuments, and beget
  Only their own ill epitaphs."
  Act ii. Sc. 2.

George Wilkins, too, the obscure author of "The Miseries of Enforced Marriage," uses the term
with as full an understanding, though not with so feeling an expression or so scandalous an
illustration of it, in the following passage from the fifth act of that play, which was produced
about 1605 or 1606:--

"They are usurers; they come yawning for money; and the sheriff with them is come to serve
an extent upon your land, and then seize your body by force of execution."

Another seemingly recondite law-phrase used by Shakespeare, which Lord Campbell passes entirely
by, though Mr. Rushton quotes three instances of it, is "taken with the manner." This has nothing
to do with good manners or ill manners; but, in the words of the old law-book before cited,--

--"is when a theefe hath stollen and is followed with hue and crie and taken, having that found
about him which he stole;--that is called ye maynour. And so we commonly use to saye, when
wee finde one doing of an unlawful act, that we tooke him with the maynour or manner."

Termes de la Ley, 1595, fol. 126, b.

Shakespeare, therefore, uses the phrase with perfect understanding, when he makes Prince Hal
say to Bardolph,--

  "O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen
  years ago, and wert taken with the manner,
  and ever since thou hast blush'd extempore."
  1 Henry IV.Act ii, Sc. 4.

But so Fletcher uses the same phrase, and as correctly, when he makes Perez say to Estefania,
in "Rule a Wife and Have a Wife,"--

  "How like a sheep-biting rogue, taken i' the manner,
  And ready for the halter, dost thou look
  now!"--Act v. Sc. 4.

But both Fletcher and Shakespeare, in their use of this phrase, unusual as it now seems to
us, have only exemplified the custom referred to by our contemporary legal authority,--"And
so we commonly use to saye, when wee finde one doing of an unlawfull act, that we tooke him
with the maynour"; though this must doubtless be understood to refer to persons of a certain
degree of education and knowledge of the world.

It seems, then, that the application of legal phraseology to the ordinary affairs of life was
more common two hundred and fifty years ago than now; though even now-a-days it is much more
generally used in the rural districts than persons who have not lived in them would suppose.
There law shares with agriculture the function of providing those phrases of common conversation
which, used figuratively at first, and often with poetic feeling, soon pass into mere thought-saving
formulas of speech, and which in large cities are chiefly drawn from trade and politics. And
if in the use of the law-terms upon which we have remarked, which are the more especially technical
and remote from the language of unprofessional life among all those which occur in Shakespeare's
works, he was not singular, but, as we have seen, availed himself only of a knowledge which
other contemporary poets and playwrights possessed, how much more easily might we show that
those commoner legal words and phrases, to remarks upon Shakespeare's use of which both the
books before us (and especially Lord Campbell's) are mainly devoted, "judgment," "fine," "these
presents," "testament," "attorney," "arbitrator," "fees," "bond," "lease," "pleading," "arrest,"
"session," "mortgage," "vouchers," "indentures," "assault," "battery," "dower," "covenant,"
"distrain," "bail," "non-suit," etc., etc., etc.,--words which everybody understands,--are
scattered through all the literature of Shakespeare's time, and, indeed, of all time since
there were courts and suits at law!

Many of the passages which Lord Campbell cites as evidence of Shakespeare's "legal acquirements"
excite only a smile at the self-delusion of the critic who could regard them for a moment in
that light. For instance, these lines in that most exquisite song in "Measure for Measure;"--"Take,
oh, take those lips away,"--

  "But my kisses bring again
  Seals of love, but seal'd in vain";--

and these from "Venus and Adonis,"--

  "Pure lips, sweet seals in my soft lips imprinted,
  What bargains may I make, still to be sealing!"--

to which Mr. Rushton adds from "Hamlet,"--

  "A combination and a form, indeed,
  Where every god did seem to set his seal."

Act iii. Sc. 4.

  "Now must your conscience my acquittance
  seal."--Act iv. Sc. 7.

