"Moses," she said, "for all I know you have loved me dearly, yet I have felt that in all that
was deepest and dearest to me, I was alone. You did not come near to me, nor touch me where
I feel most deeply. If I had lived to be your wife, I cannot say but this distance in our spiritual
nature might have widened. You know, what we live with we get used to; it grows an old story.
Your love to me might have grown old and worn out. If we lived together in the commonplace
toils of life, you would see only a poor threadbare wife. I might have lost what little charm
I ever had for you; but I feel that if I die, this will not be. There is something sacred and
beautiful in death; and I may have more power over you, when I seem to be gone, than I should
have had living."

"Oh, Mara, Mara, don't say that."

"Dear Moses, it is so. Think how many lovers marry, and how few lovers are left in middle life;
and how few love and reverence living friends as they do the dead. There are only a very few
to whom it is given to do that."

Something in the heart of Moses told him that this was true. In this one day--the sacred revealing
light of approaching death--he had seen more of the real spiritual beauty and significance
of Mara's life than in years before, and felt upspringing in his heart, from the deep pathetic
influence of the approaching spiritual world a new and stronger power of loving. It may be
that it is not merely a perception of love that we were not aware of before, that wakes up
when we approach the solemn shadows with a friend. It may be that the soul has compressed and
unconscious powers which are stirred and wrought upon as it looks over the borders into its
future home,--its loves and its longings so swell and beat, that they astonish itself. We are
greater than we know, and dimly feel it with every approach to the great hereafter. "It doth
not yet appear what we shall be."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now, I'll tell you what 'tis," said Aunt Roxy, opening the door, "all the strength this 'ere
girl spends a-talkin' to-night, will be so much taken out o' the whole cloth to-morrow."

Moses started up. "I ought to have thought of that, Mara."

"Ye see," said Miss Roxy, "she's been through a good deal to-day, and she must be got to sleep
at some rate or other to-night. 'Lord, if he sleep he shall do well,' the Bible says, and it's
one of my best nussin' maxims."

"And a good one, too, Aunt Roxy," said Mara. "Good-night, dear boy; you see we must all mind
Aunt Roxy."

Moses bent down and kissed her, and felt her arms around his neck.

"Let not your heart be troubled," she whispered. In spite of himself Moses felt the storm that
had risen in his bosom that morning soothed by the gentle influences which Mara breathed upon
it. There is a sympathetic power in all states of mind, and they who have reached the deep
secret of eternal rest have a strange power of imparting calm to others.

It was in the very crisis of the battle that Christ said to his disciples, "My peace I give
unto you," and they that are made one with him acquire like precious power of shedding round
them repose, as evening flowers shed odors. Moses went to his pillow sorrowful and heart-stricken,
but bitter or despairing he could not be with the consciousness of that present angel in the house.

CHAPTER XLIII

THE PEARL

The next morning rose calm and bright with that wonderful and mystical stillness and serenity
which glorify autumn days. It was impossible that such skies could smile and such gentle airs
blow the sea into one great waving floor of sparkling sapphires without bringing cheerfulness
to human hearts. You must be very despairing indeed, when Nature is doing her best, to look
her in the face sullen and defiant. So long as there is a drop of good in your cup, a penny
in your exchequer of happiness, a bright day reminds you to look at it, and feel that all is
not gone yet.

So felt Moses when he stood in the door of the brown house, while Mrs. Pennel was clinking
plates and spoons as she set the breakfast-table, and Zephaniah Pennel in his shirt-sleeves
was washing in the back-room, while Miss Roxy came downstairs in a business-like fashion, bringing
sundry bowls, plates, dishes, and mysterious pitchers from the sick-room.

"Well, Aunt Roxy, you ain't one that lets the grass grow under your feet," said Mrs. Pennel.
"How is the dear child, this morning?"

"Well, she had a better night than one could have expected," said Miss Roxy, "and by the time
she's had her breakfast, she expects to sit up a little and see her friends." Miss Roxy said
this in a cheerful tone, looking encouragingly at Moses, whom she began to pity and patronize,
now she saw how real was his affliction.

After breakfast Moses went to see her; she was sitting up in her white dressing-gown, looking
so thin and poorly, and everything in the room was fragrant with the spicy smell of the monthly
roses, whose late buds and blossoms Miss Roxy had gathered for the vases. She seemed so natural,
so calm and cheerful, so interested in all that went on around her, that one almost forgot
that the time of her stay must be so short. She called Moses to come and look at her drawings,
and paintings of flowers and birds,--full of reminders they were of old times,--and then she
would have her pencils and colors, and work a little on a bunch of red rock-columbine, that
she had begun to do for him; and she chatted of all the old familiar places where flowers grew,
and of the old talks they had had there, till Moses quite forgot himself; forgot that he was
in a sick room, till Aunt Roxy, warned by the deepening color on Mara's cheeks, interposed
her "nussing" authority, that she must do no more that day.

Then Moses laid her down, and arranged her pillows so that she could look out on the sea, and
sat and read to her till it was time for her afternoon nap; and when the evening shadows drew
on, he marveled with himself how the day had gone.

Many such there were, all that pleasant month of September, and he was with her all the time,
watching her wants and doing her bidding,--reading over and over with a softened modulation
her favorite hymns and chapters, arranging her flowers, and bringing her home wild bouquets
from all her favorite wood-haunts, which made her sick-room seem like some sylvan bower. Sally
Kittridge was there too, almost every day, with always some friendly offering or some helpful
deed of kindness, and sometimes they two together would keep guard over the invalid while Miss
Roxy went home to attend to some of her own more peculiar concerns. Mara seemed to rule all
around her with calm sweetness and wisdom, speaking unconsciously only the speech of heaven,
talking of spiritual things, not in an excited rapture or wild ecstasy, but with the sober
certainty of waking bliss. She seemed like one of the sweet friendly angels one reads of in
the Old Testament, so lovingly companionable, walking and talking, eating and drinking, with
mortals, yet ready at any unknown moment to ascend with the flame of some sacrifice and be
gone. There are those (a few at least) whose blessing it has been to have kept for many days,
in bonds of earthly fellowship, a perfected spirit in whom the work of purifying love was wholly
done, who lived in calm victory over sin and sorrow and death, ready at any moment to be called
to the final mystery of joy.

Yet it must come at last, the moment when heaven claims its own, and it came at last in the
cottage on Orr's Island. There came a day when the room so sacredly cheerful was hushed to
a breathless stillness; the bed was then all snowy white, and that soft still sealed face,
the parted waves of golden hair, the little hands folded over the white robe, all had a sacred
and wonderful calm, a rapture of repose that seemed to say "it is done."

They who looked on her wondered; it was a look that sunk deep into every heart; it hushed down
the common cant of those who, according to country custom, went to stare blindly at the great
mystery of death,--for all that came out of that chamber smote upon their breasts and went
away in silence, revolving strangely whence might come that unearthly beauty, that celestial joy.

Once more, in that very room where James and Naomi Lincoln had lain side by side in their coffins,
sleeping restfully, there was laid another form, shrouded and coffined, but with such a fairness
and tender purity, such a mysterious fullness of joy in its expression, that it seemed more
natural to speak of that rest as some higher form of life than of death.

Once more were gathered the neighborhood; all the faces known in this history shone out in
one solemn picture, of which that sweet restful form was the centre. Zephaniah Pennel and Mary
his wife, Moses and Sally, the dry form of Captain Kittridge and the solemn face of his wife,
Aunt Roxy and Aunt Ruey, Miss Emily and Mr. Sewell; but their faces all wore a tender brightness,
such as we see falling like a thin celestial veil over all the faces in an old Florentine painting.
The room was full of sweet memories, of words of cheer, words of assurance, words of triumph,
and the mysterious brightness of that young face forbade them to weep.

Then in a few words Mr. Sewell reminded them how that hymn had been sung in this room so many
years ago, when that frail, fluttering orphan soul had been baptized into the love and care
of Jesus, and how her whole life, passing before them in its simplicity and beauty, had come
to so holy and beautiful a close; and when, pointing to the calm sleeping face he asked, "Would
we call her back?" there was not a heart at that moment that dared answer, Yes. Even he that
should have been her bridegroom could not at that moment have unsealed the holy charm, and
so they bore her away, and laid the calm smiling face beneath the soil, by the side of poor
Dolores.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I had a beautiful dream last night," said Zephaniah Pennel, the next morning after the funeral,
as he opened his Bible to conduct family worship.

"What was it?" said Miss Roxy.

"Well, ye see, I thought I was out a-walkin' up and down, and lookin' and lookin' for something
that I'd lost. What it was I couldn't quite make out, but my heart felt heavy as if it would
break, and I was lookin' all up and down the sands by the seashore, and somebody said I was
like the merchantman, seeking goodly pearls. I said I had lost my pearl--my pearl of great
price--and then I looked up, and far off on the beach, shining softly on the wet sands, lay
my pearl. I thought it was Mara, but it seemed a great pearl with a soft moonlight on it; and
I was running for it when some one said 'hush,' and I looked and I saw Him a-coming--Jesus
of Nazareth, jist as he walked by the sea of Galilee. It was all dark night around Him, but
I could see Him by the light that came from his face, and the long hair was hanging down on
his shoulders. He came and took up my pearl and put it on his forehead, and it shone out like
a star, and shone into my heart, and I felt happy; and he looked at me steadily, and rose and
rose in the air, and melted in the clouds, and I awoke so happy, and so calm!"

CHAPTER XLIV

FOUR YEARS AFTER

It was a splendid evening in July, and the sky was filled high with gorgeous tabernacles of
purple and gold, the remains of a grand thunder-shower which had freshened the air and set
a separate jewel on every needle leaf of the old pines.

Four years had passed since the fair Pearl of Orr's Island had been laid beneath the gentle
soil, which every year sent monthly tributes of flowers to adorn her rest, great blue violets,
and starry flocks of ethereal eye-brights in spring, and fringy asters, and goldenrod in autumn.
In those days, the tender sentiment which now makes the burial-place a cultivated garden was
excluded by the rigid spiritualism of the Puritan life, which, ever jealous of that which concerned
the body, lest it should claim what belonged to the immortal alone, had frowned on all watching
of graves, as an earthward tendency, and enjoined the flight of faith with the spirit, rather
than the yearning for its cast-off garments.

But Sally Kittridge, being lonely, found something in her heart which could only be comforted
by visits to that grave. So she had planted there roses and trailing myrtle, and tended and
watered them; a proceeding which was much commented on Sunday noons, when people were eating
their dinners and discussing their neighbors.

It is possible good Mrs. Kittridge might have been much scandalized by it, had she been in
a condition to think on the matter at all; but a very short time after the funeral she was
seized with a paralytic shock, which left her for a while as helpless as an infant; and then
she sank away into the grave, leaving Sally the sole care of the old Captain.

A cheerful home she made, too, for his old age, adorning the house with many little tasteful
fancies unknown in her mother's days; reading the Bible to him and singing Mara's favorite
hymns, with a voice as sweet as the spring blue-bird. The spirit of the departed friend seemed
to hallow the dwelling where these two worshiped her memory, in simple-hearted love. Her paintings,
framed in quaint woodland frames of moss and pine-cones by Sally's own ingenuity, adorned the
walls. Her books were on the table, and among them many that she had given to Moses.

"I am going to be a wanderer for many years," he said in parting, "keep these for me until
I come back."

And so from time to time passed long letters between the two friends,--each telling to the
other the same story,--that they were lonely, and that their hearts yearned for the communion
of one who could no longer be manifest to the senses. And each spoke to the other of a world
of hopes and memories buried with her, "Which," each so constantly said, "no one could understand
but you." Each, too, was firm in the faith that buried love must have no earthly resurrection.
Every letter strenuously insisted that they should call each other brother and sister, and
under cover of those names the letters grew longer and more frequent, and with every chance
opportunity came presents from the absent brother, which made the little old cottage quaintly
suggestive with smell of spice and sandal-wood.

But, as we said, this is a glorious July evening,--and you may discern two figures picking
their way over those low sunken rocks, yellowed with seaweed, of which we have often spoken.
They are Moses and Sally going on an evening walk to that favorite grotto retreat, which has
so often been spoken of in the course of this history.

Moses has come home from long wanderings. It is four years since they parted, and now they
meet and have looked into each other's eyes, not as of old, when they met in the first giddy
flush of youth, but as fully developed man and woman. Moses and Sally had just risen from the
tea-table, where she had presided with a thoughtful housewifery gravity, just pleasantly dashed
with quaint streaks of her old merry willfulness, while the old Captain, warmed up like a rheumatic
grasshopper in a fine autumn day, chirruped feebly, and told some of his old stories, which
now he told every day, forgetting that they had ever been heard before. Somehow all three had
been very happy; the more so, from a shadowy sense of some sympathizing presence which was
rejoicing to see them together again, and which, stealing soft-footed and noiseless everywhere,
touched and lighted up every old familiar object with sweet memories.

And so they had gone out together to walk; to walk towards the grotto where Sally had caused
a seat to be made, and where she declared she had passed hours and hours, knitting, sewing,
or reading.

"Sally," said Moses, "do you know I am tired of wandering? I am coming home now. I begin to
want a home of my own." This he said as they sat together on the rustic seat and looked off
on the blue sea.

"Yes, you must," said Sally. "How lovely that ship looks, just coming in there."

"Yes, they are beautiful," said Moses abstractedly; and Sally rattled on about the difference
between sloops and brigs; seeming determined that there should be no silence, such as often
comes in ominous gaps between two friends who have long been separated, and have each many
things to say with which the other is not familiar.

"Sally!" said Moses, breaking in with a deep voice on one of these monologues. "Do you remember
some presumptuous things I once said to you, in this place?"

Sally did not answer, and there was a dead silence in which they could hear the tide gently
dashing on the weedy rocks.

"You and I are neither of us what we were then, Sally," said Moses. "We are as different as
if we were each another person. We have been trained in another life,--educated by a great
sorrow,--is it not so?"

"I know it," said Sally.

"And why should we two, who have a world of thoughts and memories which no one can understand
but the other,--why should we, each of us, go on alone? If we must, why then, Sally, I must
leave you, and I must write and receive no more letters, for I have found that you are becoming
so wholly necessary to me, that if any other should claim you, I could not feel as I ought.
Must I go?"

Sally's answer is not on record; but one infers what it was from the fact that they sat there
very late, and before they knew it, the tide rose up and shut them in, and the moon rose up
in full glory out of the water, and still they sat and talked, leaning on each other, till
a cracked, feeble voice called down through the pine-trees above, like a hoarse old cricket,--

"Children, be you there?"

"Yes, father," said Sally, blushing and conscious.

"Yes, all right," said the deep bass of Moses. "I'll bring her back when I've done with her,
Captain."

"Wal',--wal'; I was gettin' consarned; but I see I don't need to. I hope you won't get no colds
nor nothin'."

They did not; but in the course of a month there was a wedding at the brown house of the old
Captain, which everybody in the parish was glad of, and was voted without dissent to be just
the thing.

Miss Roxy, grimly approbative, presided over the preparations, and all the characters of our
story appeared, and more, having on their wedding-garments. Nor was the wedding less joyful,
that all felt the presence of a heavenly guest, silent and loving, seeing and blessing all,
whose voice seemed to say in every heart,--

"He turneth the shadow of death into morning."