
  'E won't cut Capital's cockscomb
    In the 'Oly Cause o' Labour!

Chorus.

  Sich a snide man too! Sich a very snide man!
  And now,--but that's 'is hartful affectation!
    'E would like to make hus feel
    As he only "plays genteel,"
  To give Toffs a Demmycratic Hedgercation!
People are wanting to know how it has come about that TATE's offer of
£80,000 for Picture Gallery, with £80,000 worth of pictures thrown
in to start it, has, after long correspondence with CHANCELLOR OF
EXCHEQUER, been withdrawn. JOKIM rises to explain.

"What I should really like to do," he whispered to me, in confidence, "is to give him one for
his tête, as we say in cribbage. But suppose I must speak him fair." Did his best in that direction
though undercurrent of observation in lengthy paper he read decidedly set in direction of making
TATE out as a cantankerous wrong-headed person who, proposing to bestow some £160,000 in way
of free gift, expected to have his wishes consulted in such matter of detail as selection of
site for Gallery.

"I venture to hope," said JOKIM, in conclusion, "that the door is not finally closed on the
establishment of a gallery for British Art."

"That's not quite it," said Young Father DILLWYN, with hand to ear, listening from corner seat
below Gangway he shares with that other eminent statesman, the SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE. "What
we complain of is, that you have so managed matters that the door hasn't been opened."

"Ah, well," said JOKIM, wringing his hands, "it's no use my trying anything. Remember once
seeing in dock of police-court at Lyons, a sailor brought up charged with some offence. On
his arm was tattooed the legend, 'Pas de chance.' He told long story of honest endeavour, combined
with strict honesty and tireless industry, ever frustrated by malign accident. In short, he
was no sooner out of prison than he was sent back upon fresh conviction. He had no chance,
and one time, in enforced retirement from the world, he indelibly inscribed the legend on his
forearm. Moi aussi, je n'ai pas de chance. Ever since I joined this Government things have
gone wrong with me, whether in Budget Schemes, when acting as Deputy Leader of the House, with
£1 notes, and now in this affair, where I run my head against TATE (sort of tête-à-tête), and,
though I'm innocent as a lamb, everybody will have it that I've muddled things and lost the
nation a munificent gift. Pas de chance; cher Toby; pas de chance!"

HANBURY been looking into our Army Service, and behold! it is very bad. Condemns it, lock,
stock, and barrel. Things no better than they were in time of Crimean War. Our Army costs more,
and could do less than any in the world. Curious to find statement like this gravely made in
presence of twenty-eight Members, all told, including the SPEAKER. Suppose it's true, Empire
on verge of precipice, into which, on slightest impulse, it may totter and disappear. Hon.
Members, in the main, care so little that they busy themselves writing letters, chatting in
Lobby, gossipping in Smoke-room; the few present admirably succeed in disguising terror that
must possess them as HANBURY, in solemn voice, utters his lamentation.

LOCHIEL STANHOPE recks no more than the Northern Chieftain; makes speech nearly two hours long,
proving to empty, but interested Benches, that never since Peninsular War had Great Britain
an Army so large or so fully equipped. When midnight struck, the few Members present shook
themselves, yawned, and went home. Business done.--In Committee on Army Estimates.

