"Esmay!" he called, but she would not stop, gathering up her skirts in both her hands, and
trying not to look behind her. But he was quickly at her heels, and an inexplicable terror
seemed to seize her; she looked about for a hiding-place; a door presented itself, and she
clutched the handle desperately, but it refused to turn. Seeing her discomfiture, Constans
believed that he was entitled to enjoy his triumph. He walked up with leisurely deliberation.
"You are a goose," he said, and took her hands in his, as one who reproves a wilful child.

She assented meekly.

"To run away like that--so foolish, when I had something serious to say to you. Why do you
suppose I brought you here? Why should I want you to see the house? why did I build it at all?
Be good enough to answer me."

She looked up at him with the most innocent expression in the world. "Why?" she echoed, as
though mightily puzzled, and immediately the male creature became miserably bewildered, and
lost his confident bearing in the twinkling of an eye. Had she really misunderstood him? had
he been deceiving himself from the very beginning? He turned pale and dropped her hands, and
she, misinterpreting this relinquishment of ownership, felt the blood receding from her own
checks. Two utterly foolish creatures, and yet their folly is not to be argued away by the
wise men. For while it is the accepted theory that a woman always knows when she is loved (with
which men please themselves), and per contra that a man is never unconscious of the favor in
which he stands (with which women torment themselves), yet the truth is that neither man nor
woman is ever certain of the fact until it is finally proclaimed in actual speech. So this
is why lovers are always being asked to repeat and repeat again the magic words upon which
all their happiness depends.

"The reason--you know--the reason why," he stammered, and then she came to his aid.

"Yes, I know, but tell me."

And thereupon he did tell her.

A year later, and Constans and his wife sat on a high point of land that overlooked the waters
of the Lower bay and the broad, salt sea beyond the dunes. Several of Constans's neat-cattle
had strayed, and he had determined to ride to the fishermen's village below the Narrows to
inquire if the estrays had been seen in that direction. Esmay had accompanied him, and they
had been all day in the saddle and were weary. Nevertheless, they were satisfied, for the lost
cattle had been recovered, and in the morning the herdsmen would be sent over to drive them home.

They had shared a frugal supper of bread and cheese and dried grapes, and now they were waiting
until the horses should have cropped their fill. There was no hurry, the moon not rising for
an hour yet, and it was useless to arrive at the Kills before the time of slack water. Constans
had his back against a pine-stump, and Esmay's head rested on her husband's shoulder. They
sat in silence, gazing out upon the gray sea, content in their present happiness and looking
forward to a yet greater one in the near future. For to Constans Esmay had just made a wife's
final confession, the secret being whispered into his inmost ear, though there was only the
land and the sea to overhear.

Suddenly, on the darkened eastern sky-line, a bright light flashed out, in color like to a
star, and yet incomparably more brilliant. And the light was not fixed, but continually changed
its base, as was shown by the broad band of rays that now swept the surface of the sea and
then traced their luminous way on the overhanging clouds. Another shift and the shining pathway
reached to their very feet, illuminating with its radiance every object within its focus, down
to the tiniest shell upon the beach. Esmay, startled, clung to her husband's arm.

"What is it?" she asked, but he could not answer her.

Yet as they gazed upon the new star, insensibly they became comforted. Whatever this prodigy
foretold, it could not be an omen of lasting evil. Had they not seen for themselves that, even
in the worst of worlds, righteousness and justice and truth had been something more than names.
Doom had fallen; for more than a twelvemonth the ruins had smouldered, and to-day they were
but the harmless haunt of bat and badger. And the world relieved of that intolerable incubus,
and recovered of its purging and cleansing sickness, had started once more upon its appointed
path--slowly, indeed, at the first, but ever onward and upward.

"It is only one more of the things that we cannot understand," said Constans at the last. "But
we who love need not fear."

He drew his wife's face to his own, and there, full in the radiance of the unknown star, he
kissed her on the lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

Early that same evening Sub-Lieutenant Jarvison, watch-officer of the electric cruiser Erebus,
reported to his commander that a landfall had been made six points away on the port bow. Captain
Laws immediately hastened to the bridge of the vessel and ordered that the engines be stopped
and the customary signals shown. But no reply was received to the rockets displaying the red,
green, and white colors of the Antarctic Republican Navy; apparently the country was not inhabited.
Yet to make sure, the search-light was put in requisition. Up and down, from side to side,
swept the giant beam, and now they could see that the land on the left rose gradually into
a considerable headland. Beyond opened the wide waters of what must be a great bay. Captain
Laws reflected for a moment, and then gave another order to his executive.

Under half speed, and with a leadsman in the chains, the Erebus moved steadily towards the
unknown coast.

Some hypenation was inconsistently used in the original. These have been retained as they appear
in the original text.

       *       *       *       *       *