As May of last year was made memorable by the opening of the Great Exhibition, so will the
present month become famous for the pulling down of the Crystal Palace. Parliament has decreed
it, and there is an end of the matter. If the people by and by find reason to complain of the
proceeding, they will have no one to blame but themselves; because, had they spoken out as
only a whole nation can speak, the decision of the legislature would have been on the other
side of the question. We are promised, however, that it shall be re-erected on some other site,
and herein must solace ourselves for disappointment at the removal, while waiting for the National
Exhibition to be opened at Cork, or that of the Arts and Manufactures of the Indian Empire
promised by the Society of Arts. Besides this, the present May will be noteworthy in the annals
of ocean steam-navigation: the steamers to Australia are to commence their trips, as also those
to Brazil and Valparaiso. Who would have dreamed, twenty years ago, that the redoubtable Cape
Horn would, before a quarter century had expired, be rounded by a steamer from an English port?
Captain Denham is about to sail in the Herald, to survey the islands of the great ocean, one
object being to find the best route and coaling-stations among the islands for steamers from
the Isthmus to Sydney. The vessel will carry an interpreter, a supply of English seeds and
plants, and a number of articles, to serve as presents for the natives. Should this survey
be successful, and the United States' expedition to Japan produce the effect anticipated, the
vast solitudes of the Pacific will be erelong continually echoing with the beat of paddle-wheels
and the roar of steam. Rapid intercommunication will bring about changes, whereat politicians
and ethnologists shall wonder. The Chinese still keep pouring into California by shiploads
of 200 or 300 at a time, where they will perhaps learn that a year of Anglo-Saxondom is 'worth
cycle of Cathay.' We may regard as evidence of progress, that Loo-choo has been visited by
Captain Shadwell of the Sphynx; he was received with great favour, and conducted to the royal
city of Shooi, three miles inland. Readers of Captain Basil Hall's pleasant account of the
same island will remember, that he was jealously forbidden to approach the interior. Do the
Loo-chooans want to conciliate an ally? If, as is said, Japan is to become to the Americans
what India is to us, we shall have them for neighbours in the east, as we now have them in
the west. It will be an interesting event should England, America, and Russia some day meet
on the Asiatic continent.

One good effect of railways, as you know, has been to cheapen coal, and excite activity in
heretofore dormant mining districts--results which tell upon the trade in sea-borne coals.
To meet this emergency, a scheme is on foot for sending coal from the Tyne to the Thames in
steam-colliers, which, by their short and regular passages, shall compete successfully with
the railways. The experiment is well worth trying, and ought to pay, if properly managed: meantime,
our railways will extend their ramifications. Looking for a moment at what is doing in other
parts of the world, it appears that there are at present 2000 miles of railway in France, besides
as much more which is to be completed in four years. Portugal is only just beginning to think
of iron routes: a few wakeful people are trying to impress that backward land with a sense
of the advantages of rapid locomotion; and it is shewn that, by a simple system of railways,
Lisbon would be placed at sixteen hours' distance from Madrid, forty-three from Paris, fifty-three
from Brussels, and fifty-seven from London. Would it not be a comfort to be able to run away
from the north-east monsoon, which has so long afflicted us, to the orange groves on the banks
of the Tagus, in about two days and a half? A telegraph is about to be carried from the Austrian
States over the Splugen into Switzerland--the Alps, it would appear, being no bar to the thought-flasher.
There is a project, too, for a regular and universal dispatch of telegraph messages from all
parts of the world. A mail and telegraph route from the Mississippi across to San Francisco
is talked about. The proposer considers that post-houses might be erected at every twenty miles
across the American continent, in which companies of twenty men of the United States' army
might be stationed, to protect and facilitate the intercommunication; news would then find
its way across in six or seven days. Should this scheme fail to be realised, the Americans
may content themselves with having nearly 11,000 miles of railway already open, and another
11,000 in progress.

A beginning is made towards the abolition of the duty on foreign books imported. Government
have consented that certain learned societies, and a number of scientific individuals, shall
receive, duty free, such scientific publications as may be sent to them from abroad. Considering
that the whole amount realised by the present customs' charge is only L.8000, it is easy to
believe that the authorities will shortly have to abolish it altogether. Another question in
which books are concerned, is the dispute that has been going on for some time among the fraternity
of booksellers, as to whether a retailer shall be allowed to sell books for any price he pleases,
or not. Whether 'free-trade' or 'monopoly' is to prevail, will depend on the decision of the
arbitrators who have been chosen. Leaving out all the rest of the kingdom, there are nearly
1000 booksellers in London; so the subject is an important one. This number affords a notable
datum for comparison with other countries. In Germany, the number of booksellers is 2651, of
which 2200 are retailers, 400 publishers only, while 451 combine the two. They are distributed--36
in Frankfort, 56 in Stuttgart, 52 in Vienna, 129 in Berlin, 145 in Leipsic. The figures are
suggestive. Another fact may be instanced: in 1851 the number of visits to the British Museum
for reading was 78,419--giving an average of 269 per day, the room having been open during
292 days. The number of books consulted was 424,851, or 1455 daily. This is an agreeable view
of what one part of society is doing; but there is a reverse to the picture, as shewn in a
recently published parliamentary report, from which it appears that in 1849 the juvenile offenders
in England numbered 6849--in Wales, 73--of whom 167 were transported; in 1850, the numbers
were respectively 6988, 82, 184, shewing an increase under each head. Of the whole number in
confinement last November, 169 were under thirteen years of age, and 568 under sixteen: 205
had been in prison once before, 90 twice, 49 three times, 85 four times and upwards; 329 had
lost one parent, 103 both parents; 327 could not read, and 554 had not been brought up to any
settled employment. These facts may be taken as demonstrative of the necessity for multiplying
reformatory agricultural schools, such as have been established in various parts of the continent
with the happiest effects.

Among the prizes just announced by the French Académie, is one for 'the best work on the state
of pauperism in France, and the means of remedying it,' to be adjudged in 1853. It is greatly
to be wished that some gifted mind would arise capable of taking a proper survey of so grave
a question, and bringing it to a practical and satisfactory solution. Some people are beginning
to ask, whether it would not be better, with the proceeds of poor-rates, to send paupers to
colonies which are scant of labourers, rather than to expend the money in keeping them at home.
The Académie of Literature, too, has offered a prize for an essay on the parliamentary eloquence
of England--a significant fact in a country where the legislature is not permitted to be eloquent,
and where forty-nine provincial papers have died since the 2d of December. Coming again to
science: the judicial savants have awarded a medal to Mr Hind for his discovery of some two
or three of the minor planets--an acknowledgment of merit which will not fail of good results
in more ways than one.

Various scientific matters, which are deserving of a passing notice, have come before the same
learned body. Matteucci, who has been steadily pursuing his electro-chemical labours, now states
that with certain liquids and a single metal he can form a pile, the electro-magnetic and electro-chemical
effects of which are much greater than those obtained with the old piles of Volta and Wollaston,
and come nearer to those of the batteries of Bunsen and Grove. As yet, he withholds the particulars,
but they will shortly be forthcoming. M. Dureau de la Malle, in remarks on the breeding of
fish, a subject which has of late occupied much attention in France, says, that he has now
discovered the reason 'why domestic servants in Holland and Scotland, when taking a situation,
stipulate that they shall not be made to eat salmon more than three times a week;' it is, the
insipid taste of young salmon. It is safe to say, that however much M. de la Malle may know
about fish, he knows but little of the habits of the countries to which he refers. M. Yvart
mentions a fact that may be useful to graziers--the breed of cattle has been improved in France
by the introduction of the Durham bull; but, as experience has shewn, it is at the expense
of certain qualities deemed essential on the other side of the Channel. Here, we require meat
as speedily as possible in young animals for consumption in our great towns; there, the great
rural population use milk largely, and keep the animals longer before they are killed. The
quantity of milk, it appears, is materially reduced in the Durham breed, and on this account
M. Yvart suggests, that it should not be too much encouraged. Then there is something about
dogs by Messrs Gruby and Delafond, who shew that the worms which have long been known to exist
in the larger blood-vessels of certain dogs, are the parents of the almost innumerable filaria
or microscopic worms, found circulating also in the veins. The number generally in one dog
is estimated at 52,000, though at times it is more than 200,000; and being smaller than the
blood-globules, the creatures penetrate the minutest blood-vessels. They are met with on the
average in one dog in twenty-five, though most frequent in the adult and old, and without distinction
of sex or race. The examination of the phenomenon is to be continued, with a view to ascertain
whether dogs infested with these blood-worms are subject to any peculiar disease.

More interesting is the account of a successful case of transfusion of blood in the human subject,
performed in presence of the ablest surgeons of Paris. A woman was taken to the Hôtel Dieu
reduced by hemorrhage to the last stage of weakness, unable to speak, to open her eyes, or
to draw back her tongue when put out. The basilic vein was opened, and the point of a syringe,
warmed to the proper temperature, was introduced, charged with blood drawn from the same vein
in the arm of one of the assistants. The quantity, 180 grammes, was injected in 2-1/2 minutes,
after which the wound was dressed, and the patient placed in a comfortable position. Gradually,
the beatings of the pulse rose from 130 to 138, and became firmer; the action of the heart
increased in energy; the eyes opened with a look of intelligence; and the tongue could be advanced
and withdrawn with facility, and regained its redness. On the following day, there was a little
delirium, after which the pulse fell to 90, the signs of vitality acquired strength, and at
the end of a week the woman left the hospital restored to health. Cases of successful transfusion
are so rare, that it is not surprising the one here recorded should have excited attention
among our physiologists.

People inclined to corpulence may profit by M. Dancel's observations on the development of
fat. He says, that some of his patients, whose obesity was a constant inconvenience and cause
of disease, 'lost very notably of their embonpoint by a change in their alimentary regimen--abstaining
almost entirely from vegetables, feculent substances, diminishing their quantity of drink,
and increasing, when necessary, their portion of meat.' On another, subject, M. Guérin Méneville
believes he has found a new cochineal insect (Coccus fabæ) on the common bean, which grows
wild in the south of France, and in such abundance, that a considerable quantity may be collected
in a short time. The yield of colouring matter is of such amount, that a project is talked
of for cultivating the plant extensively.

A communication has been made to the Geological Society at Paris by M. de Hauslab, on a subject
which has from time to time occupied the thoughts of those who study the physique of the planet
on which we live--namely, the origin of the present state of our globe, and its crystal-like
cleavage. After a few preliminary remarks about mountains, rocks, dikes and their line of direction,
he shews that the globe presents the form approximately of a great octahedron (eight-sided
figure); and further, that the three axial planes which such a form necessitates, may be described
by existing circles round the earth: the first being Himalaya and Chimborazo; starting from
Cape Finisterre, passing to India, Borneo, the eastern range of Australia, New Zealand, across
to South America, Caracas, the Azores, and so round to Finisterre. The second runs in the opposite
direction; includes the Andes, Rocky Mountains, crosses Behring's Strait to Siberia, thence
to the Altaï, Hindostan, Madagascar, Cape Colony, and ending again at the Andes of Brazil.
The third, which cuts the two former at right angles, proceeds from the Alps, traverses the
Mediterranean by Corsica and Sardinia to the mountains of Fezzan, through Central Africa to
the Cape, on to Kerguelen's Land, Blue Mountains of Australia, Spitzbergen, Scandinavia, and
completing itself in the Alps, from whence it started. These circles shew the limits of the
faces of the huge crystal, and may be divided into others, comprising forty-eight in the whole.
The views thus set forth exhibit much ingenuity; and when we consider that metals crystallise
in various forms, and native iron in the octahedral, there is much to be said in their favour.

We shall probably not be long before hearing of another gold field, for Dr Barth writes from
the interior of Africa, that grains of the precious metal have been found in two rivers which
flow into Lake Tchad, and that the mountains in the neighbourhood abound with it. Should the
first discovery be verified by further explorations, gold will be more abundant than it now
promises to be, and Africa perhaps the richest source of supply. Apropos of this continent,
a French traveller is about to prove from the results of a journey from the Cape towards the
equator, that the Carthaginian discoveries had been pushed much further towards the south than
is commonly supposed.

Agassiz, who, as you know, has become a citizen of the United States, has had the Cuvierian
prize awarded to him for his great work on fossil fishes--an honour approved by every lover
of science. This distinguished writer says, in his latest publications on fossil zoology, that
the number of fossil fishes distributed over the globe is more than 25,000 species; of mammifera,
over 3000; reptiles, over 4000; shells, more than 40,000; numbers which greatly exceed all
former calculation. Of other American items, there is one worthy the notice of apiarians: some
emigrants who sailed from Boston wished to convey a hive of bees to the Sandwich Islands, where
the industrious insects have not as yet been introduced; all went well until the vessel reached
the tropics, and there the heat was so great as to melt the wax of the combs, and consequently
to destroy the bees.

Lieutenant Hunt, of the American Coast Survey, states that copper-plate engravings may be copied
on stone; specimens are to appear in the forthcoming report. To quote his description: 'A copper-plate
being duly engraved, it is inked, and an impression taken on transfer-paper. A good paper,
which wetting does not expand, is needed, and a fatty coating is used in the process. The transfer-paper
impression is laid on the smooth stone, and run through a press. It is then wetted, heated,
and stripped off from the stone, leaving the ink and fat on its face. The heated fat is softly
brushed away, leaving only the ink-lines. From this reversed impression on the stone, the printing
is performed just as in ordinary lithography. A good transfer produces from 3000 to 5000 copies.
Thus prints from a single copper-plate can be infinitely multiplied, the printing being, moreover,
much cheaper than copper-plate.'

IN EXPECTATION OF DEATH.--CONSTANTIA.

    When I was young, my lover stole
      One of my ringlets fair:
    I wept--'Ah no! Those always part,
    Who having once changed heart for heart,
      Change also locks of hair.

    'And wonder-opened eyes have seen
      The spirits of the dead,
    Gather like motes in silent bands
    Round hair once reft by tender hands
      From some now shrouded head.

    'If'---- Here he closed my quivering mouth,
      And where the curl had lain,
    Laid payment rich for what he stole:--
    Could I to one hour crush life's whole,
      I'd live that hour again!

    My golden curls are silvering o'er--
      Who heeds? The seas roll wide;
    When one I know their bounds shall pass,
    There'll be no tresses--save long grass--
      For his hands to divide;

    While I shall lie, low, deep, a-cold,
      And never hear him tread:
    Whether he weep, or sigh, or moan,
    I shall be passive as a stone,
      He living, and I--dead!

    And then he will rise up and go,
      With slow steps, looking back,
    Still--going: leaving me to keep
    My frozen and eternal sleep,
      Beneath the earth so black.

    Pale brow--oft leant against his brow:
      Dear hand--where his lips lay;
    Dim eyes, that knew not they were fair,
    Till his praise made them half they were--
      Must all these pass away?

    Must nought of mine be left for him
      Save the poor curl he stole?
    Round which this wildly-loving me
    Will float unseen continually,
      A disembodied soul.

    A soul! Glad thought--that lightning-like
      Leaps from this cloud of doom:
    If, living, all its load of clay
    Keeps not my spirit from him away,
      Thou canst not, cruel tomb!

    The moment that these earth-chains burst,
      Like an enfranchised dove,
    O'er seas and lands to him I fly,
    Whom only, whether I live or die,
      I loved, love, and shall love.

    I'll wreathe around him--he shall breathe
      My life instead of air;
    In glowing sunbeams o'er his head
    My visionary hands I'll spread,
      And kiss his forehead fair.

    I'll stand, an angel bold and strong,
      Between his soul and sin;
    If Grief lie stone-like on his heart,
    I'll beat its marble doors apart,
      To let Peace enter in.

    He never more shall part from me,
      Nor I from him abide;
    Let these poor limbs in earth find rest!
    I'll live like Love within his breast,
      Rejoicing that I died.

WATER.

Some four-fifths of the weight of the human body are nothing but water. The blood is just a
solution of the body in a vast excess of water--as saliva, mucus, milk, gall, urine, sweat,
and tears are the local and partial infusions effected by that liquid. All the soft solid parts
of the frame may be considered as ever temporary precipitates or crystallisations (to use the
word but loosely) from the blood, that mother-liquor of the whole body; always being precipitated
or suffered to become solid, and always being redissolved, the forms remaining, but the matter
never the same for more than a moment, so that the flesh is only a vanishing solid, as fluent
as the blood itself. It has also to be observed, that every part of the body, melting again
into the river of life continually as it does, is also kept perpetually drenched in blood by
means of the blood-vessels, and more than nine-tenths of that wonderful current is pure water.
Water plays as great a part, indeed, in the economy of that little world, the body of man,
as it still more evidently does in the phenomenal life of the world at large. Three-fourths
of the surface of the earth is ocean; the dry ground is dotted with lakes, its mountain-crests
are covered with snow and ice, its surface is irrigated by rivers and streams, its edges are
eaten by the sea; and aqueous vapour is unceasingly ascending from the ocean and inland surfaces
through the yielding air, only to descend in portions and at intervals in dews and rains, hails
and snows. Water is not only the basis of the juices of all the plants and animals in the world;
it is the very blood of nature, as is well known to all the terrestrial sciences; and old Thales,
the earliest of European speculators, pronounced it the mother-liquid of the universe. In the
later systems of the Greeks, indeed, it was reduced to the inferior dignity of being only one
of the four parental natures--fire, air, earth, and water; but water was the highest--[Greek:
udôr men ariston]--in rank.--Westminster Review.

LOTTERY OF DEATH.

The Polish and German peasantry have given the authorities at Posen considerable trouble by
their inquiries respecting a 'Rothschild's Lottery.' They have been led to believe, that the
'great Rothschild' has been sentenced to be beheaded; but that he has been allowed to procure
a substitute, if he can, by lottery! For this purpose, a sum of many millions is devoted, all
the tickets to be prizes of 3000 thalers each, except one; that fatal number is a blank; and
whoever draws it, is to be decapitated instead of the celebrated banker! Notwithstanding the
risk, the applicants for shares have been numerous. [There is nothing surprising in the number
of applications for these shares. Every man who enters the army in wartime, takes out a ticket
in a similar lottery. In China, human life is of still less account; for there it is easy for
a condemned criminal, whose escape the authorities are willing to connive at, to obtain a substitute,
who, for a sum of money, suffers death in his stead.]

A MAN FOR THE WORLD.

A successful merchant in New Zealand, a Scotchman, commenced business with the following characteristic
entry on the first page of his ledger:--'Commenced business this day--with no money--little
credit--and L.70 in debt. Faint heart never won fair lady. Set a stout heart to a stay (steep)
brae.