But then the three interfered, and it was likely that the other, the rich aristocracy, should
now know all about it. It was not to save the lives of those unfortunate women and children
that they went. There would be danger in that. And though the women and children were, at any
rate, their near neighbours, why should they attempt to interfere and incur manifest dangers
on their account? But they would creep along and see, and then they could tell; or should they
be disturbed in their employment, they could escape amidst the darkness of the night. There
could be no escape for those poor wretches, stripped in their bed; none for that aged woman,
who could not take herself away from among the guns and rocks of her pursuers; none for those
poor children; none, indeed, for the father of the family, upon whom the ten would come in
his lair. If his wife had threatened to tell, he must pay for his wife's garrulity. Pat Gilligan
had suffered for some such offence, and it was but just that she and he and they should suffer
also. But the three might have to suffer, also, in their turns, if they consented to subject
themselves to so bloody an aristocracy. And therefore they stalked forth at night and went
up to Kerrycullion, at the heels of the other party, and saw it all. Now, one after another,
the six were killed, or all but killed, and then the three went back to their homes, resolved
that they would have recourse to the other aristocracy.

Between Galway and Cong and Kerrycullion, Hunter was kept going in these days, so as to obtain
always the latest information for his master. For, though the neighbourhood of Morony Castle
was now supposed to be quiet, and though the Captain was not at the moment on active service,
Hunter was still allowed to remain with him. And, indeed, Captain Clayton's opinion was esteemed
so highly, that, though he could do nothing, he was in truth on active service. "They are sticking
to their story, all through?" he asked Hunter, or rather communicated the fact to Hunter for
his benefit.

"Oh, yes! sir; they stick to their story. There is no doubt about them now. They can't go back."

"And that boy can talk now?"

"Yes, sir; he can talk a little."

"And what he says agrees with the three men? There will be no more murders in that county,
Hunter, or in County Galway either. When they have once learned to think it possible that one
man may tell of another, there will be an end to that little game. But they must hang them
of course."

"Oh, yes! sir," said Hunter. "I'd hang them myself; the whole ten of them, rather than keep
them waiting."

"The trial is to be in Dublin. Before that day comes we shall find what they do about Lax.
I don't suppose they will want me; or if they did, for the matter of that, I could go myself
as well as ever."

"You could do nothing of the kind, Captain Clayton," said Edith, who was sitting there. "It
is absurd to hear you talk in such a way."

"I don't suppose he could just go up to Dublin, miss," said Hunter.

"Not for life and death?" roared the sick man.

"I suppose you could for life and death," said Hunter,--with a little caution.

"For his own death he could," said Edith. "But it's the death of other people that he is thinking
of now."

"And you, what are you thinking of?"

"To tell the truth, just at this moment I was thinking of yours. You are here under our keeping,
and as long as you remain so, we are bound to do what we can to keep you from killing yourself;
you ought to be in your bed."

"Tucked up all round,--and you ought to be giving me gruel." Then Hunter simpered and went
away. He generally did go away when the love-scenes began.

"You could give one something which would cure me instantly."

"No, I could not! There are no such instant cures known in the medical world for a man who
has had a hole right through him."

"That bullet will certainly be immortal."

"But you will not if you talk of going up to Dublin."

"Edith, a kiss would cure me."

"Captain Clayton, you are in circumstances which should prevent you from alluding to any such
thing. I am here to nurse you, and I should not be insulted."

"That is true," he said. "And if it be an insult to tell you what a kiss would do for me, I
withdraw the word. But the feeling it would convey, that you had in truth given yourself to
me, that you were really, really my own, would I think cure me, though a dozen bullets had
gone through me."

Then when Ada had come down, Edith went to her bedroom, and kissed the pillow, instead of him.
Oh, if it might be granted to her to go to him, and frankly to confess, that she was all, all
his own! And she felt, as days went on, she would have to yield, though honour still told her
that she should never do so.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE NEW ARISTOCRACY FAILS.

From this moment the mystery of the new aristocracy began to fade away, and get itself abolished.
Men and women began to feel that there might be something worse in store for them than the
old course of policemen, juries, and judges. It had seemed, at first, as though these evil
things could be brought to an end, and silenced altogether as far as their blessed country
was concerned. A time was coming in which everyone was to do as he pleased, without any fear
that another should tell of him. Though a man should be seen in the broad daylight cutting
the tails off half a score of oxen it would be recognised in the neighbourhood as no more than
a fair act of vengeance, and nothing should be told of the deed, let the policemen busy themselves
as they might. And the beauty of the system consisted in the fact that the fear of telling
was brought home to the minds of all men, women, and children. Though it was certain that a
woman had seen a cow's tail mangled, though it could be proved beyond all doubt that she was
in the field when the deed was done, yet if she held her peace no punishment would await her.
The policeman and the magistrate could do nothing to her. But Thady O'Leary, the man who had
cut a cow's tail off, could certainly punish her. If nothing else were done she could be boycotted,
or, in other words, not allowed to buy or sell the necessaries of life. Or she could herself
be murdered, as had happened to Pat Gilligan. The whole thing had seemed to run so smoothly!

But now there had come, or would soon come, a change o'er the spirit of the dream. The murder
of Pat Gilligan, though it had made one in the necessary sequence of events, one act in the
course of the drama which, as a whole, had appeared to be so perfect, seemed to them all to
have about it something terrible. No one knew what offence Pat Gilligan had given, or why he
had been condemned. Each man began to tremble as he thought that he too might be a Pat Gilligan,
and each woman that she might be a Mrs. Kelly. It was better to go back to the police and the
magistrates than this!

I do not know that we need lean too heavily on the stupidity of the country's side in not having
perceived that this would be so. The country's side is very slow in perceiving the course which
things will take. These ten murderers had been brought together, each from fear of the others;
and they must have felt that though they were ten,--a number so great when they considered
the employment on which they were engaged as to cause horror to the minds of all of them,--the
ten could not include all who should have been included. Had the other three been taken in,
if that were possible, how much better it would have been! But the desire for murder had not
gone so far,--its beauty had not been so perfectly acknowledged as to make it even yet possible
to comprise a whole parish in destroying one family.

Then the three had seen that the whole scheme, the mystery of the thing, the very plan upon
which it was founded, must be broken down and thrown to the winds. And we can imagine that,
when the idea first came upon the minds of those three, that the entire family of the Kellys
was to be sacrificed to stop the tongue of one talkative old woman, a horror must have fallen
upon them as they recognised the duty which was incumbent on them. The duty of saving those
six unfortunates they did not recognise. They could not screw themselves up to the necessary
pitch of courage to enable them to enter in among loaded pistols and black-visaged murderers.
The two women and the children had to die, though the three men were so close to them; so close
as to have been certainly able to save them, or some of them, had they rushed into the cabin
and created the confusion of another advent. To this they could not bring themselves, for are
not the murderers armed? But an awful horror must have crept round their minds as they thought
of the self-imposed task they had undertaken. They waited until the murders had been completed,
and then they went back home and told the police.

From this moment the mystery by which murders in County Galway and elsewhere were for a short
period protected was over in Ireland. Men have not seen, as yet, how much more lovely it is
to tell frankly all that has been done, to give openly such evidence as a man may have to police
magistrates and justices of the peace, than to keep anything wrapped within his own bosom.
The charm of such outspoken truth does not reconcile itself at once to the untrained mind;
but the fact of the loveliness does gradually creep in, and the hideous ugliness of the other
venture. On the minds of those men of Kerrycullion something of the ugliness and something
of the loveliness must have made itself apparent. And when this had been done it was not probable
that a return to the utter ugliness of the lie should be possible. Whether the ten be hanged,--to
the intense satisfaction of Hunter and his master,--or some fewer number, such as may suffice
the mitigated desire for revenge which at present is burning in the breasts of men, the thing
will have been done, and the mystery with all its beauty will have passed away.

At Castle Morony the beginning of the passing away of the mystery was hailed with great delight.
It took place in this wise. A little girl who had been brought up there in the kitchen, and
had reached the age of fifteen under the eyes of Ada and Edith,--a slip of a girl, whose feet
our two girls had begun to trammel with shoes and stockings, and who was old enough to be proud
of the finery though she could not bear the confinement,--had gone under the system of boycotting,
when all the other servants had gone also. Peter, who was very stern in his discipline to the
younger people, had caught hold of her before she went, and had brought her to Mr. Jones, recommending
that at any rate her dress should be stripped from her back, and her shoes and stockings from
her feet. "If you war to wallop her, sir, into the bargain, it would be a good deed done,"
Peter had said to his master.

"Why should I wallop her for leaving my service?"

"She ain't guv' no notice," said the indignant Peter.

"And if I were to wallop you because you had taken it into your stupid head to leave me at
a moment's notice, should I be justified in doing so?"

"There is differences," said Peter, drawing himself up.

