Baden, the well-known and much-frequented watering-place, has been long celebrated. The following
account of it in the fifteenth century is interesting. Those warriors who would wile away the
interval between one campaign and another agreeably, betook themselves to Baden in Aargau.
Here in a narrow valley, where the Limmat flows through its rocky bed, are hot springs of highly
medicinal properties. Hither, to the numerous houses of public entertainment, resorted prelates,
abbots, monks, nuns, soldiers, statesmen, and all sorts of artificers. As in our fashionable
watering-places, most of the visitors merely sought to dissipate ennui, enjoy life, and pursue
pleasure. The baths were most crowded at an early hour in the morning, and those who did not
bathe resorted thither to see acquaintances, with whom they could hold conversation from the
galleries round the bath-rooms, while the bathers played at various games, or ate from floating
tables. Lovely females did not disdain to sue for alms from the gallery-loungers, who threw
down coins of small amount, to enjoy the ensuing scramble. Flowers were strewn on the surface
of the water, and the vaulted roof rang with music, vocal, and instrumental. Towards noon the
company sallied forth to the meadows in the neighbourhood, acquaintances were easily made,
and strangers soon became familiar. The pleasures of the table were followed by jovial pledges
in swift succession, till fife and drum summoned to the dance. Now fell the last barriers of
reserve and decorum; and it is time to drop a veil over the scene. Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

Morland.--George Morland's brother was telling me the other day, that he well remembered going
with his brother in a hack to Smithfield, buying a young donkey there, and bringing it home
with them in the coach; his brother laughing almost all the time. M.L.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Three Death's Heads.--The following words (much altered) are from a poem entitled, "The
Thre' Deid Powis", (The Three Death's Heads, by Patrick Johnstoun.)

  "O, lady gay, in glittering garments drest,
  Enrich'd with pearl, and many a costly stone,
  Thy slender throat, and soft and snowy breast
  Circled with gold and sapphires many a one.
  Thy fingers small, white as the ivory bone,
  Arrayed with rings, and many a ruby red;
  Soon shall thy fresh and rose-like bloom be gone,
  And naught of thee remain, but grim and hollow head.
  O, woeful pride! dark root of all distress!
  With contrite heart, our fleshless scalps behold!
  O wretched man, to God, meek prayers address.
  Thy lusty strength, thy wit, thy daring bold,
  All shall lie low with us in charnel cold:
  Proud king, 'tis thus thy pamper'd corpse shall rot;
  Thus, in the dust thy purple pomp be roll'd,
  Mark then, in peeled skull, thy miserable lot."

       *       *       *       *       *

