But the old Oakwichian was more reasonable, and, ever glad, even in the article of death, to
disseminate useful knowledge, interposed. "I will tell you what the matter is," he said. "Well
I remember in the far-away past, in the sunny summer-days that will return, alas! no more,"--here
a burst of sorrow prevented speech, but he presently recovered himself,--"how a little maid
used to walk in Netherworld, and rest under the shadow of our greatness, toying with the light.
She was a favorite with every one hereabouts. Gold was her hair like a spun sunbeam, blue her
eyes like our own June sky, and her voice might sing the lowest lullaby of the Red Mavis, or
his song to his love in her nest. Sometimes the little maiden looked up wistfully to us, her
eyes all a-gleam with her glowing fancies. Then we pelted her with sunshine, and caressed her
with shade, and then she was happiest of all. But sometimes she brought with her hateful things,
tasks and tools, useless, awkward, bungling, sharp weapons, that hurt her tender fingers, long
cords that she pulled aimlessly back and forth, huge books with harsh names, that blurred her
dear eyes and gloomed her bright face. First we tried to shame and then to woo her away from
them, but some invisible old dragon stood over her, and forced her on; and so we learned at
length to watch and wait till the hated task was over. Thereby we learned many strange and
wonderful things; but this alone is to the purpose, that I surely recall how for many days
she kept reading about the Red-coats, and I peeped down over her shoulder, as we swayed in
the dance one afternoon, and saw pictures of these same Red-coats, a great destroying army,
fierce and fell, who burn villages, and talk piously, and slay men, women, and children. Them
has friend Wood-thrush verily seen, and against them he strove to warn us. But, ah! what avails
it? What can we do, or whither shall we flee! Can a nation take wing like a Wood-thrush? Can
Leafland flit about like a Swallow? And who should warrant us that the Red-coats should not
pursue us to remotest fastnesses? Nay, they may be even now upon us. Woe! woe is me! We were
Leaflanders; Oakwich was, and the great glory of the Elmthorpians! But now we be all dead men!"

At this, the Leaflanders only paused long enough to upbraid the young woman. "See now whether
anything is the matter!" and immediately fell to upon their despair.

"A nation in ruins!" cried the statesman. "Leafland falls from its lofty summit, and I live
to see the day."

"I behold the gods departing from Leafland," spake the scholar. "This is the end of the fates
of Leafland."

"Now I do not care for your gods and your fates and your what-all," sobbed a nervous little
lady. "I never could see that they were of any use in housekeeping; but who shall watch over
the tender birdlings when we are gone?"

"And never any more dances! Forever, never, never, forever!" You may know it was a belle said that.

"Dances are but the vanity of this world," moaned a sedate matron; "but woe for my dear pet
Aphides, with their six hundred thousand children, who will be dead before they are born!"

"Bother your six hundred thousand children!" growled a crusty philosopher. "If they are dead,
it is the only good thing ever I heard about them. It might be worth while to have one's country
crashing about one's ears occasionally, for the sake of being well rid of such trash. Here
are all our laboratories broken up, and the sun's occupation gone, and you making a to-do about
a parcel of babies!"

"O the sweet sunshine!" wept a poet, but most musically,--"the warm, delicious sunshine, that
our hungry souls can feed upon no more, nor ever fill our drinking-cups with nectared dew!"

And so in Mapleton and Sumachford and through all Leafland was nothing heard but the voice
of lamentation, and nothing seen but floods of tears, and nothing thought of but how to avert
or escape the threatened calamity; and, in their terror and trouble, the Leaflanders almost
lost their fine tempers, and were often on the brink of quarrelling; and the people walking
in Netherworld met each other under blue cotton umbrellas, and exclaimed, "What a spell of
weather!" and altogether it was very uncomfortable, both in Leafland and Netherworld.

Just at this time a gay young Chipmonk appeared upon the scene,--a careless, dashing, saucy
fellow, very popular among the young Leaflanders of the rapid sort. He came skipping and frisking
into Nutham, as his manner was, both pockets full of corn which he had confiscated, he remarked
significantly, from a field down yonder. He nodded jauntily right and left, and then disposed
himself comfortably in a corner, and began cracking his dainties in a very free-and-easy manner,
not noticing the woe-begone aspect of his friends. All at once, however, he awoke to a realizing
sense of things, and showed his sympathy after his own fashion, by giving a sudden flirt with
his tail, and calling out, irreverently, "What's the row?"

Amid tears and sighs, the sad story was related to him, in all its length and breadth and thickness;
but, instead of the answering tear and sigh which his auditors expected, he only thrust his
paws into his pockets, and whisked his tail over his back in frantic convulsions of laughter;
muttering, as breath came to him in the pauses, "O, what a gony! For that matter, O, what a
pack of gonies!"

Now the Leaflanders were quite too well-bred ever to have used or heard so barbarous a word
as "gony." Nevertheless, reason and instinct both taught them, as it will teach all people
of refined sensibilities, that to be called a gony is to be called something very disagreeable;
and if anything can heighten the unpleasant sensation, it is to be called "a pack of gonies."
Consequently the Leaflanders began to look at each other blankly, and even to suspect that
possibly they had been making fools of themselves. But Chipmonk did not leave them long in
suspense. "Your terrible Red-coats are your own selves," he cried. "I have heard of people
being frightened by their own shadow; but never, in all my born days, did I hear of any one
being frightened by his own shine."

"Now will you explain yourself?" cried one of the young ladies, her curiosity getting the better
of her chagrin. All the old men and the young men were longing to know, but were too proud
to ask; but the question being asked for them, they were glad enough to crowd in, and hear
the answer.

"It is only this, and nothing more," answered Chipmonk, ejecting a pine-seed from his mouth.
"You are all going to have a new suit of clothes, more splendid than you ever saw in your lives,--yellow
and brown and spotted, and all manner of magnificent colors, but chiefly red; and then you
will be Red-coats, won't you? Wood-thrush came from north, where the tailoring began; and he
saw it, and told you. It is a sign for him to be up and flying. He thought it would be his
excuse for declining your invitation, instead of which you all went thrusting your heads into
a bramble-bush. O my!"

"But say, Chipmonk, do you know this? Are you sure of it? It seems too good news to be true."

"Well, all I can say is, I have lived here, man and boy, nigh on to forty months; and I know
it always has happened about this time. I am young for a Chipmonk; but I was in full career
long before the oldest crone among you was born; and if there is anything hereabouts that I
don't know, you may take your affidavit it isn't worth knowing." And he sat back, and betook
himself once more to his "confiscated" corn with the most indifferent superiority.

Oh! but there was gladness then in Leafland, you may be sure. All their sadness was turned
to rejoicing; and even then the work of transformation--called, in squirrelicular, "tailoring"--began.
Old and young, men and maids, felt a glory in their blood. All the essence of the summer-long
sunshine seemed to pour itself into their hearts. From one end of Leafland to another was only
singing and dancing and delight. Mapleton crowned herself with a golden crown, and Oakwich
wreathed her brows with the sunset. All the beauty of the past was dull and sombre to this
new splendor, this royal magnificence, born of the ineffable light.

A poet and a publisher walked through the Essex woods one October afternoon; and they remarked
that the foliage was very brilliant this year, which was quite true; but if I had not been
born, you never would have known all about it.

Gail Hamilton.

THE COLOR-BEARER

        Was a fortress to be stormed:
        Boldly right in view they formed,
    All as quiet as a regiment parading:
        Then in front a line of flame!
        Then at left and right the same!
    Two platoons received a furious enfilading.
        To their places still they filed,
        And they smiled at the wild
            Cannonading.

        "'T will be over in an hour!
        'T will not be much of a shower!
    Never mind, my boys," said he, "a little drizzling!"
        Then to cross that fatal plain,
        Through the whirring, hurtling rain
    Of the grape-shot, and the minie-bullets' whistling!
        But he nothing heeds nor shuns,
        As he runs with the guns
            Brightly bristling!

        Leaving trails of dead and dying
        In their track, yet forward flying
    Like a breaker where the gale of conflict rolled them,
        With a foam of flashing light
        Borne before them on their bright
    Burnished barrels,--O, 't was fearful to behold them!
        While from ramparts roaring loud
        Swept a cloud like a shroud
            To enfold them!

        O, his color was the first!
        Through the burying cloud he burst,
    With the standard to the battle forward slanted!
        Through the belching, blinding breath
        Of the flaming jaws of Death,
    Till his banner on the bastion he had planted!
        By the screaming shot that fell,
        And the yell of the shell,
            Nothing daunted.

        Right against the bulwark dashing,
        Over tangled branches crashing,
    'Mid the plunging volleys thundering ever louder!
        There he clambers, there he stands,
        With the ensign in his hands,--
    O, was ever hero handsomer or prouder?
        Streaked with battle-sweat and slime,
        And sublime in the grime
            Of the powder!

        'T was six minutes, at the least,
        Ere the closing combat ceased,--
    Near as we the mighty moments then could measure,--
        And we held our souls with awe,
        Till his haughty flag we saw
    On the lifting vapors drifting o'er the embrasure!
        Saw it glimmer in our tears,
        While our ears heard the cheers
            Rend the azure!

        Through the abatis they broke,
        Through the surging cannon-smoke,
    And they drove the foe before like frightened cattle!
        O, but never wound was his,
        For in other wars than this,
    Where the volleys of Life's conflict roar and rattle,
        He must still, as he was wont,
        In the front bear the brunt
            Of the battle.

        He shall guide the van of Truth!
        And in manhood, as in youth,
    Be her fearless, be her peerless Color-Bearer!
        With his high and bright example,
        Like a banner brave and ample,
    Ever leading through receding clouds of Error,
        To the empire of the Strong,
        And to Wrong he shall long
            Be a terror!

                                        J. T. Trowbridge.

THE LITTLE PRISONER.

PART I.

ON THE BATTLE-GROUND.

We--grandma, "our young folks," and I--live up here among the hills, in a quaint, old-fashioned
farm-house,--older than any of the "old folks" now living; and every day, when the sun goes
down, we gather around the great wood fire in the sitting-room, and talk and tell stories by
the hour together. I tell the most of the stories; for, though I am only a plain farmer, going
about in a slouched hat, a rusty coat, and a pair of pantaloons so old and threadbare that
you would not wear them if you were in the ash business, I have mingled with men, seen a great
many places, and been almost all over the world.

My own children like my stories, because they think they are true, and because they are all
about the men I have met, and the places I have seen, and so give them some glimpses of what
is going on in the busy life outside of our quiet country home; but I do not expect other young
folks to like them as well as my own do,--for their own father will not tell them. However,
I am going to write out a few of the many I know, in the hope that they may give some trifling
pleasure and instruction to boys and girls I have never seen, and who gather of evenings around
firesides far away from the one where all my stories are first told.

As I sit down to write by this bright, blazing fire, the clouds are scudding across the moon,
and the wind is moaning around the old house, shaking the doors, and rattling the windows,
and snapping the branches of the great trees as if a whole regiment of young giants were cracking
their whips in the court-yard. On just such a night a wounded boy lay out on the Wilderness
battle-ground!

You have heard of that great battle; how two hundred thousand men met in a dense forest, and
for two long days and nights, over wooded hills, and through tangled valleys, and deep, rocky
ravines, surged against each other like angry waves in a storm. And you have heard, too--what
is very pitiful to hear--how, when that bloody storm was over, and the sun came out, dim and
cold, on the cheerless May morning which followed, thirty thousand men--every one the father,
brother, or friend of some young folks at home--lay dead and dying on that awful field. Amid
such a host of dead and dying men, you might overlook one little boy, who, all that starless
Friday night, lay there wounded in the Wilderness. I do not want you to overlook him, and therefore
I am going to tell you his story.

He was a bright-eyed, fair-haired boy of twelve, the only son of his mother, who was a widow.
He used to read at home of how little boys had gone to the war, how they had been in the great
battles, and how great generals had praised them; and he longed to go to the war too, and to
do something to make himself as famous as the little boy who fought on the Rappahannock. For
a long time his mother was deaf to his entreaties,--and he would not go without her consent;
but at last, when a friend of his father raised a company of hundred-days men in his native
town, she let him join as a drummer-boy in the regiment.

The first battle he was in was the terrible one in the Wilderness. His regiment shared in the
first day's fight, but he escaped unharmed; and all that night, though tired and hungry, he
went about in the woods carrying water to the wounded. The next morning he snatched a few hours'
sleep, and that and a good breakfast refreshed him greatly. At ten o'clock his regiment moved,
and it kept moving and fighting all that day, until the sun went down; but, though a hundred
of his comrades had fallen around him, he remained unhurt.

The shadows were deepening into darkness, and the night was hanging its lanterns up in the
sky, when the weary men threw themselves on the ground to rest. Overcome with fatigue, he too
lay down, and, giving one thought to his mother at home, and another to his Father in heaven,
fell fast asleep. Suddenly the sharp rattle of musketry and the deafening roar of cannon sounded
along the lines, and five thousand rebels rushed out upon them. Surprised and panic-stricken,
our men broke and fled; and, roused by the terrible uproar, James--that was his name--sprang
to his feet, but only in time to catch in his arms the captain, who was falling. He was shot
through and through by a minie ball.

James laid him gently on the ground, took his head tenderly in his lap; and listened to the
last words he had to send to his wife and children. Meanwhile, yelling like demons, the Rebels
came on, and passed them. Then he could have escaped to the woods, but he would not leave his
father's friend when he was dying.

Soon our men rallied, and in turn drove the enemy. Slowly and sullenly the Rebels fell back
to the hill where James and his friend were lying. There they made a stand, and for half an
hour fought desperately, but were at last overborne and forced back again. As they were on
the eve of retreating, a tall, ragged ruffian came up to James, and demanded the watch and
money of the captain.

"You will not rob a dying man?" said the little boy, looking up to him imploringly.

"Wall, I woan't!" was the Rebel's brutal reply, as he aimed his bayonet straight at the captain's
heart.

By a quick, dexterous movement, James parried the blow; but, turning suddenly on the poor boy,
the ruffian, with another thrust of his bayonet, ran him directly through the body. His head
sunk back to the ground, and he fainted.

How long he lay there unconscious he does not know, but when he came to himself the moon had
gone down, and the stars had disappeared, and thick, black clouds were filling all the sky.
It did not rain, but the cold wind moaned among the trees, and chilled him through and through.
He tried to rise, but a sharp pain came in his side, and for the first time he thought of his
wound. Passing his hand to it, he found it was clotted with blood. The cold air had stopped
the bleeding, and thus saved his life. Though the bayonet had gone clear through him, his hurt
was not mortal, for no vital part was injured.

He thought of the captain, and spoke his name; but no answer came. Then he reached out his
hand to find him. He was there, but his face was cold,--colder than the cold night that was
about them. He was dead.

The wounded lay all around, and all this while their cries and groans, as they called piteously
for water, or moaned aloud in their agony, came to his ear, and went to his very soul. He had
heard their cries the night before, as he crept about among them in the thick woods; but then
they had not sounded so sad, so pitiful, as now, and that night was not so cold, so dark, so
cheerless as this was. Soon he knew the full extent of their agony. An intolerable thirst came
upon him. Hot, melted lead seemed to run along his veins, and a burning heat, as of a fire
of hot coals kindling in his side, almost consumed him. He cried out for help, but no help
came,--for water, but still he thirsted. Then he prayed,--prayed to the Good Father, who he
knew was looking pitifully down on him through the thick darkness, to come and help him.

And He came. He always comes to those who ask for Him. Soon the clouds grew darker, the wind
rose higher, and the rain--the cooling, soothing, grateful rain--poured down in torrents. It
wet him through and through, but it eased his pain, cooled the fever in his blood, and he slept!
In all that cold and pelting storm he slept!

It was broad day when he awoke. The sun was shining dimly through the thick masses of gray
clouds which floated in the sky, but the wind had gone down, and the rain was over. The moans
of the wounded still came to him, but they were not so frequent, nor so terrible, as they were
the night before. Many had found relief from the rain, and many had ceased moaning forever.

He could not rise, but, after long and painful effort, he succeeded in turning over on his
side. Then he had a view of the scene around him. He lay near the summit of a gentle hill,
at whose base a little brook was flowing. At the north it was crowned with a dense growth of
oaks and pines and cedar thickets, but at the south and west it sloped away into waving meadows
and pleasant cornfields, already green with the opening beauty of spring. Beyond the meadows
were other hills, and knolls, and rocky heights, all covered with an almost impenetrable forest,
and there the hardest fighting of those terrible days was done. A narrow road, bordered by
a worm-fence (Western boys know what a worm-fence is), wound around the foot of the hill, and
led to a large mansion standing half hidden in a grove of oaks and elms, not half a mile away.
Before this mansion were pleasant lawns and gardens, and in its rear a score or more of little
negro houses, whose whitewashed walls were gleaming in the sun. This was the plantation--so
James afterwards learned--of Major Lucy, one of those wicked men whose bad ambition has brought
this dreadful war on our country.

The scene was very beautiful, and, looking at it, James forgot for a moment the darker picture,
drawn in blood, on the grass around him. But there it was. Blackened muskets, broken saddles,
overturned caissons, wounded horses snorting in agony, and fair-haired boys and gray-haired
men mangled and bleeding,--some piled in heaps, and some stretched out singly to die,--lay
all over that green hillside! Here and there a crippled soldier was creeping about among the
wounded, and, close by, a stalwart man, the blood dripping from his dangling sleeve, was wrapping
a blue-eyed, pale-faced boy in his blanket. "Don't cry, Freddy," he said; "ye sha'n't be cold!
Yer mother'll soon be yere!" But the boy gave no answer, for--he was dead!

"He don't hear you," said James. "He isn't cold now!"

"I'se afeard he ar',--he said he war. Oh! ef his mother know'd he war yere! 't would break
her heart,--break her heart!" moaned the man, still wrapping the blanket about the boy.

James closed his eyes to shut out the painful scene, and the thought of his own mother came
to him. Would it not break her heart to know he was wounded? to hear, perhaps, that he was
dead? He must not die; for her sake, he must not die! ONE only could help him, and so he prayed.
Again he prayed that the Good Father would come to him, and again the Good Father came!

"What is ye a doin' yere, honey,--a little one loike ye?" asked a kind voice at his side.

He looked up. It was an old black woman, dressed in a faded woollen gown, a red and yellow
turban, and a pair of flesh-colored stockings which Nature herself had given her. She was very
short, almost as broad as she was long, and had a face as large round as the moon,--and it
looked very much like the moon when it shines through a black cloud; for, though darker than
midnight, it was all over light,--that kind of light which shines through the faces of good people.

"I am wounded; I want water," said the little boy, feebly.

"Ye shill hab it, honey," said the woman, giving him some from a bucket she had set on the ground.

"Guv some ter my lad," cried the man who sat by the dead boy; "he's been a cryin' fur it all
night--all night! Didn't ye yere him?"

"No, I didn't, massa. I hain't been yere more'n a hour, and a tousand's a heap fur one ole
ooman ter 'tend on," she replied, filling a gourd from the bucket, and going with it to the
dead boy.

She stooped down and held the water to his lips, but in a moment started back, and cried out
in a frightened way,--"He'm dead! He can't drink no more!"

"He hain't dead!" yelled the man, fiercely; "he sha'n't die! Guv me the water, ole 'ooman."

With a trembling hand, he tried to give it to his son. He held it to the boy's lips for a moment,
then, dropping the gourd, and sinking to the ground, he cried out,--"It'll kill his mother,--kill
his mother! Oh! oh!"

"He'm better off, massa," said the woman, in a voice full of pity; "he'm whar he kin drink
foreber ob de bery water ob life."

"Gwo away, ole 'ooman,--gwo away,--doan't speak ter me!" moaned the man, throwing his arms
around the body of his boy, and burying his face in the blanket he had wrapped about him.

Brushing her tears away with her apron, the woman turned to James, and said,--"Whar is ye hurted,
honey? Leff aunty see."

The little boy opened his jacket, and showed her his side. She could not see the wound, for
the blood had glued his shirt, and even his waistcoat, to his body; but she said, kindly,--"Don't
fret, honey. 'Tain't nuffin ter hurt,--it'll soon be well. Ole Katy'll borrer a blanket or
so frum some o' dese as is done dead, and git ye warm; and den, when she's gub'n a little more
water ter de firsty ones, she'll take a keer ob you,--she will, honey; so neber you f'ar."

She went away, but soon came again with the blankets, and, wrapping two about him, and putting
another under his head, said,--"Dar, honey, now you'll be warm; and neber you keer ef ole Katy
hab borrer'd de blankets. Dey'll neber want 'em darselfs; and she knows it'll do dar bery souls
good, eben whar dey is, ter know you's got 'em. So neber keer, and gwo ter sleep,--dat's a
good chile. Aunty'll be yere agin in a jiffin."

James thanked the good woman, and, closing his eyes again, soon fell asleep. The sun was right
over his head, when old Katy awoke him, and said,--"Now, honey, Aunty's ready now. She'll tote
you off ter de plantation, and hab you all well in less nur no time, she will; fur massa's
'way, and dar haint no 'un dar now ter say she sha'n't."

"You can't carry me; I'm too heavy, Aunty," said James, making a faint effort to smile.

"Carry you! Why, honey chile, ole Katy could tote a big man, forty times so heaby as you is,
ef dey was only a hurted so bad as you."

Taking him up, then, as if he had been a bag of feathers, she laid his head over her shoulder,
and, cuddling him close to her bosom, carried him off to the large mansion he had seen in the
distance.

What befell him there I shall tell "our young folks" in the next number of this, their own
Magazine.

Edmund Kirke.

THOMAS HUGHES.

The portrait given with the present number of "Our Young Folks" is that of one of England's
cleverest writers and best men,--Thomas Hughes. Mr. Hughes is well known throughout all America
as the author of those most spirited and truthful books, "School Days at Rugby," and "Tom Brown
at Oxford,"--books which all young people, girls as well as boys, ought to read, and which
their elders cannot fail to find delightful and profitable. Another volume, "The Scouring of
the White Horse," has also been republished in this country, but as its interest is quite local,--the
scene being laid in the county of Kent, England, and the principal incidents relating to a
festival which took place there,--it has not been so extensively circulated.

Mr. Hughes is the second son of John Hughes, Esq., of Donington Priory, near Newbury, Berks
Co., England. He was born October 20, 1823, and received his early education at Rugby under
the instruction of the noble Dr. Arnold, who is depicted so beautifully in "School Days at
Rugby." In 1841 he entered Oriel College, Oxford, and received his degree of B. A. in 1845.
He immediately registered himself as a student at Lincoln's Inn, and was called to the bar
in January, 1848.

