The 5th Brigade left Frere at daybreak on January 11th, and, covered by the 'Royals,' took
the Springfield road. It had been raining heavily, and the road, never good, soon became execrable.
The column was followed by a long line of waggons carrying baggage, supplies, ammunition, pontoons,
&c. On arriving at Pretorius' Farm, the brigade halted and pitched camp. The battalion found
the outposts, which were especially ordered to protect themselves by building 'sangars' or
digging trenches.

Meanwhile the apparently endless line of waggons had been blocked by a bad drift below the
camp, and the brigade was called upon to help. The road was somewhat improved by throwing into
the soft mud stones obtained from a wall, and many waggons had to be hauled by ropes through
the spruit. For over forty-eight hours did that collection of vehicles continue to cross and
require help.

On Thursday, January 12th, the 4th Brigade and General Warren's Division passed through the
camp and went straight on to Springfield, since the cavalry had ascertained that there were
no Boers south of the Tugela in that direction. The 5th Brigade followed on the afternoon of
the 15th, crossing the Little Tugela by a foot trestle-bridge made of spars cut by the Engineers
from trees on the bank. As the battalion approached Springfield, the sound of artillery-fire
greeted it, and our shrapnel could be seen bursting against a hill which was evidently on the
left bank of the Tugela. It was clear that the army was again in touch with the enemy, but
nobody knew what Sir Redvers Buller had decided upon, although everybody, of course, dogmatised
on what he ought to do.

On the afternoon of the 16th, orders were issued for the brigade to march that night, although
nothing was stated regarding its destination. Vigorous operations were plainly intended, since
the force was to move as lightly as possible. No tents or blankets were allowed, and the great-coats
were carried by the regimental transport, in which officers were permitted to pack twenty pounds
of baggage. Six days' rations were also taken.

The army moved from Springfield at dusk, leaving the camp standing in charge of a few details
(cooks, &c.), who had strict orders to light fires and walk about, so that the vigilant burgher
might not discover that the army had slipped away. The general direction of the march was north-west.
It was a bright moonlight night, but the column moved slowly, for the numerous waggons took
up the centre of the road, while the troops moved on the side. About midnight it began to rain,
which made everybody cold and uncomfortable, especially as halts were long and frequent. It
was not easy to see where the army was going, although the Tugela could not be far off. Nobody
knew the plan of operations, which, however, evidently aimed at a surprise crossing of the
river, and it seemed as if the enemy must hear the noise of the creaking transport and tramping
men.

About 2 a.m. there came a halt on the top of a ridge, where General Hart formed up his brigade.
Each regiment deployed into line, and then lay down one behind the other in the following order:
Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers, Connaught Rangers, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, and Border Regiment.
Fatigued by a long night-march, every one soon fell asleep. Unfortunately, however, the slumbers
of the brigade were disturbed by an incident which shows how easily confusion can arise in
night operations. A horse from somewhere in front broke loose and galloped over the veld, straight
into the ranks of the sleeping regiments. For a moment everything was in confusion, and a general
panic nearly took place. Luckily the first glimmer of dawn had come, and the company officers
soon regained control of their men, but it might have been a different tale had darkness still
prevailed.

When daylight came, it showed the army to be on the top of a hill overlooking Trichardt's Drift.
On the other side of the river the ground rose to a long ridge flanked on the east by a steep
mountain, and on the west by a bastion-like hill. Nobody then knew the country, but that mountain
was Spion Kop, and the ridge lying so calmly in the morning light was to be the scene of six
days' continuous fighting. At dawn of January 17th, however, the ridge, which the natives called
Tabanyama, seemed deserted, and not a Boer was to be seen.

It was now learnt that Sir Redvers Buller had divided his forces, sending two brigades, under
General Lyttelton, to Potgieter's Drift, while the remainder of the army, under General Warren,
was assembled ready to cross the river at Trichardt's Drift.

The battalion breakfasted quietly, and then 'H' company was sent down to the drift in order
to help in the construction of a bridge. As the company descended the steep slope, the artillery
from the heights began to shell a farm on the far side of the river, whence a Boer patrol had
been sniping. The Engineers had massed the pontoon waggons round a farm by the drift, and were
looking for a suitable point for the bridge. The pontoons were launched, and by 11.30 a.m.
the first bridge was ready. The infantry immediately began to cross, but the artillery and
transport had to wait for a second bridge, which was not completed until after dark.

The 5th Brigade marched down to the river at 2 p.m. and crossed. On reaching the left bank
the battalion deployed into line, with four or five paces between the men, and slowly moved
up the slope in support of the widely-extended lines of the Lancashire Brigade. Except for
an occasional shot from the artillery at Potgieter's Drift, everything was still and peaceful;
although, as the army moved away from the river, most of the officers expected to be greeted
by the familiar 'pick-pock' of the enemy's mausers.

The brigade in front eventually halted on the top of a minor ridge, some three thousand yards
or more from the crest-line of Tabanyama, and separated from it by open and gently-sloping
ground. The Dublin Fusiliers formed quarter-column immediately behind the Lancashire Brigade,
and prepared to bivouac. Many of the officers strolled higher up in order to look at the country
through their glasses. The main crest-line was evidently occupied, for men could be seen busily
digging. It was somewhat trying to think that precious time was being wasted, while the burghers
were preparing a defensive position.

Our transport was still on the other side of the Tugela, and consequently we had to do without
blankets, great-coats, and kettles. The officers' mess was saved by a subaltern, who succeeded
in procuring a Kaffir cooking-pot and some very tough fowls, which Captain Hensley boiled with
great skill. The night was unpleasant, for khaki drill is but an inefficient protection against
the cold and heavy dew. The experience proved too much for Major Butterworth, R.A.M.C., who
had to go on the sick list soon afterwards. He had been with the battalion since Ladysmith,
and his coolness and devotion at the battle of Colenso had made him popular with all ranks.

The next day, January 18th, was spent in idleness, and the different corps remained in their
bivouacs. There was nothing to do except watch the Boers still digging on the crest-line, and
the shells fired by the guns of General Lyttelton, who was apparently making a reconnaissance.
The greater part of General Warren's artillery crossed to the left bank and took up a position
close to the battalion.

On the 19th the regiment took part in the movement which was initiated with the evident purpose
of turning the Boer right by the Acton Holmes road. Leaving the artillery and the Lancashire
Brigade on the ridge, the remainder of the army descended into the plain, and moved up the
left bank of the Tugela. The column marched along the base of the main ridge, and was carefully
watched by the Boer patrols from Bastion Hill.

After fording Venter's Spruit the battalion halted about 2 p.m. on some rising ground, whence
a good view of the surrounding country was obtained. As there seemed every prospect of a long
halt, the men began to take off their boots and putties, in order to dry them, but they had
to put them on again hurriedly enough, since the guns suddenly opened fire. At first everybody
imagined that the Boers were attacking the artillery and Lancashire Brigade. Soon, however,
it was seen that the latter were making a reconnaissance. Not much opportunity for looking
at the spectacle was afforded, since we received an order to recross Venter's Spruit and bivouac.
The movement by Acton Holmes had been given up for some reason which was unknown, and it was
not difficult to see that the alternative was a frontal attack on the position which everybody
had watched being fortified.

The battalion halted close to Venter's Spruit, and had a piquet ('H' company) on the Trichardt's
Drift road. The transport succeeded in reaching the brigade that night, and the men were thus
able to have their great-coats. Not much sleep was, however, allowed. At a very early hour,
long before daylight, on the 20th, the brigade was aroused. Great-coats were again packed on
the waggons, and then, without breakfast or any opportunity of issuing rations, the battalion
fell in and marched off. Owing to darkness and the rough track by which the column marched,
progress was at first very slow. When the feeble light of early dawn enabled the country to
be seen, the regiment was crossing a spruit near Fairview Farm, lying at the foot of the ridge.
It then ascended a small valley leading to Three Tree Hill, where the Field Artillery had concentrated.

The latter soon afterwards opened the battle, and fired on the Boer trenches, which stood out
more prominently than usual on the crest of the ridge. The enemy's artillery did not reply,
although a vigorous rifle-fire was directed on the skirmishers of the Lancashire Brigade.

The Connaught Rangers had been temporarily detached on escort duty, and General Hart now moved
his three remaining battalions to the left in line of quarter-columns. It was a hot day, and
the men, who had eaten nothing that morning, suffered some discomfort from such a close formation.
The ground, too, was broken and covered with long grass and scrub, so that it was no easy matter
to satisfy the General's injunctions in the matter of 'dressing.' The brigade moved in full
view of the enemy, and so compact a body of men must have been a great temptation to the Boer
gunners, who, however, were either not ready or exercised much self-restraint. After scrambling
through a remarkably steep valley, the brigade halted in a gentle depression, where it was
safe from the random bullets that were falling near. A long pause ensued, and the men were
able to obtain some much-needed water.

It was past noon before the infantry, in this part of the field, advanced in earnest. Then
the York and Lancaster Regiment and Lancashire Fusiliers were sent forward as the firing-line
against the centre of the Boer position, and were supported by the Borders and 2nd Royal Dublin
Fusiliers. The formation adopted by General Hart for the support was two lines. The first line,
which was two deep, consisted of the right half-battalions of the two regiments, the Borders
being on the right, and was followed at a distance of about two hundred yards by a similar
line, composed of the left half-battalions.

On emerging from the depression where it had been resting, the support came under rifle-fire.
The range must, however, have been a long one, and the casualties were few. The attack was
moving astride of a spur which ran from the Boer position to the Tugela, a little distance
to the west of Three Tree Hill. At first this spur was broad, forming almost a plateau, but
further on it narrowed, and consequently the left of the two lines advanced up a narrow valley,
which afforded excellent cover.

Led by General Hart, the brigade advanced at a steady pace and, after a time, closed up on
the firing-line. It then halted, and from a slight elevation opened fire in order to support
the Lancashire Regiments, who, having taken the enemy's advanced position, found that some
thousand yards of very open and almost-level ground lay between them and the Boer trenches,
which lined the northern edge of the summit of the ridge. The attack could now only advance
slowly, since it was exposed to a cross-fire from both flanks. Hitherto it had only faced rifle-fire,
but about 1.45 p.m. the Boer guns, posted somewhere near Spion Kop, came into action. They
were able to rake the whole assaulting line, and, in fact, many officers thought at first that
the shells were 'short' ones from our own artillery. The Boers on this occasion managed to
burst their shrapnel with some accuracy, and it was fortunate that the attack could find good
cover.

This artillery and the increased rifle-fire on the right flank caused the line to swing round
in that direction, but any further advance was suspended by superior orders soon after 4.30
p.m. The Borders, who had pushed ahead, were ordered back, and the other regiments took cover
among the rocks, and maintained a vigorous fire. The rattle of musketry gradually died away
as the light failed, until after nightfall the battalion assembled behind a wall and bivouacked.

By great efforts the regimental transport had succeeded in getting touch with the battalion,
which was thus able to obtain rations. But it was not until 8 p.m. that the men could get anything
to eat.

Thus ended the fight of January 20th. It had cost the regiment one of its most efficient officers,
Captain Hensley, who was mortally wounded.[4] Major English had been hit in the leg--he was
back within a fortnight--and of the rank and file four were killed and twenty wounded--among
the former being Lance-Sergeant Taylor, a most excellent N.C.O. Although the opposing forces
were so close, the night passed quietly. With daylight (January 21st), however, the rifle-fire
at once broke out. The battalion had just managed to have a scratch meal when orders were received
to move to the support of the 2nd Brigade, which was away to the left. General Hart ordered
Colonel Cooper to move by the straightest line, first down a ravine across a spruit, and then
over a hill. While climbing the latter, the battalion was in full view of the enemy, who at
once opened fire with guns and rifles. Each company extended in succession, and doubled, so
far as possible, over the exposed ground. Once over the hill a region of comparative safety
was reached, and General Hart finally formed up his command behind a rocky ridge overlooking
the position held by the 2nd Brigade. The latter were having a rifle duel with the Boer trenches
but did not advance. The 5th Brigade played a very passive part, and spent the day behind the
rocks. Bullets continually whistled overhead, and the hostile artillery near Spion Kop burst
an occasional shrapnel along the position. Otherwise there was no excitement.

         [Footnote 4: Poor Hensley was not only one of the most
         popular officers in the regiment, but also one of the best
         and bravest. All his life he had been devoted to field
         sports, and his fame as a plucky big-game hunter and skilful
         shot was well known in many a Central Indian village and
         Cashmere valley. Educated at the Canadian Military College,
         he was a master of his profession, while the long months
         spent in Indian jungles had turned him into a handy man
         indeed. Wonderful and varied were the uses to which he could
         put an empty paraffin-tin or biscuit-box, and excellent were
         the stews he could produce out of a mess-tin. On one occasion
         in India a wounded panther was mauling one of his beaters.
         His rifle was empty, but without a moment's hesitation he
         dashed in, and drove the animal away by beating it over the
         head. Alas! poor Hensley, we could spare him ill, but, after
         all, we know he died the death he would have chosen.]

Towards evening, the regiment received orders to move some few hundred yards to the right,
and bivouac. Colonel Cooper directed the companies to close in succession, and march from the
rocks to the new position. This movement almost escaped the notice of the Boer artillery, and
it was not until the last company ('H') moved that two shells were fired. They fell to the
right and in front of the leading fours, and did no damage. The battalion assembled in a narrow
amphitheatre just below the southern crest, and at the head of a valley leading to Fairview
Farm. Although the bivouac could not be seen by the enemy, except from Spion Kop, it was not
altogether sheltered from fire, for every now and then a bullet would clear the crest-line
and strike the ground below.

In this amphitheatre we perforce remained for three days, having a far from pleasant time.
From sunrise to sunset the rattle of musketry practically never ceased, only at intervals the
hum of the passing bullets was drowned by the clang of bursting shrapnel. The Boer guns, posted
both directly in front and on the right flank, burst their shells just over the crest, and
fired intermittently all day. There were four battalions crowded in the amphitheatre, and each
one occupied in turn the crest, whence an uninterrupted fire was directed on the Boer trenches
opposite. The enemy's marksmen had the range of this crest-line, and it was a dangerous matter
to stand up even for a minute. Stone sangars were built and the companies relieved each other
by the men crawling up the slope. The enemy's artillery near Spion Kop could rake the line
of sangars, thus necessitating numerous traverses. When not in the firing line, we lay behind
the slope in column, each company being protected by a parapet of earth or stone. Immediately
below the amphitheatre the ground fell steeply, forming a ravine in which the cooks set up
their field kitchens in comparative security. It was characteristic of the British soldier
that whereas during the greater part of the day he crouched behind his cover, the sight of
a fatigue party with the kettles made him forget the shells and bullets, and he dashed off
for his food regardless of danger.

On Tuesday night (January 22nd) the proposed assault on Spion Kop was announced, and every
one hoped that a general advance would be the result.

The morning of January 23rd dawned with a thick white mist, which hid everything from view.
It was our turn to occupy the ridge, and the companies lay there for nearly an hour before
the usual exchange of rifle-fire began. No news of the capture of Spion Kop had reached the
amphitheatre, but the fact could be guessed from the absence of the Boer guns in that direction.
Only the artillery in front of the battalion's position fired in the morning, and even that
ceased during the afternoon. The enemy was evidently concentrating the greater part of his
forces against Spion Kop, and parties of mounted burghers could be seen moving from their extreme
right. On Spion Kop hung the white clouds of bursting shrapnel, and the stuttering sound of
the pompom scarcely ceased for a moment, but the 5th Brigade made no advance. The companies
behind the sangars fired hundreds of rounds at the Boer trenches, while their comrades below
ate and slept.

At dawn of the 25th, glasses and telescopes were turned on to the summit of the mountain, and
it was a bitter blow when the moving figures there were seen to be Boers. It was not until
late in the forenoon, however, that the evacuation of Spion Kop was officially communicated.
But the renewal of the Boer artillery fire against the crest-line had been a sufficiently eloquent
announcement of the fact.

As there seemed no reason why the regiment should remain in the amphitheatre when it was not
required to man the sangars, Colonel Cooper obtained permission that afternoon to move down
the valley below Bastion Hill. The new bivouac was more sheltered, although an occasional Boer
shell still fell near.

It was now evident that the second attempt to relieve Ladysmith had failed, and that the army
would have to recross the Tugela. On the afternoon of the 25th, fatigue parties were sent by
the battalion to improve the track leading to Fairview Farm, and it was rumoured that the retreat
would take place that night. At 10.30 p.m. 'H' company was sent to the farm, with orders to
hold it during the retirement. But the army did not move until Friday night, January 26th.
At 10 p.m. on that date, General Hart's command began to descend the valley in heavy rain,
which rendered the track extremely greasy.

Only a short distance had been covered when there was an outburst of rifle-fire from the rearguard,
which was still holding the sangars. For a moment it seemed as if the Boers had anticipated
the retreat and were attacking. The battalion halted, but the firing soon ceased, and the march
was continued, the men stumbling down the track as quickly as the many boulders would permit.
At Fairview Farm the column halted for a considerable period, in order to let the rearguard
close up. By this time every one was wet to the skin, and the enforced rest was somewhat trying,
owing to the cold.

However, after a wait of about an hour, the retirement was resumed. The track was marked by
orderlies and tins, but even with this help it was difficult to find the way in the utter darkness.
The surface of the road, too, had become so slippery that falls were frequent. Altogether,
progress was painfully slow and the march a very fatiguing one. It was past 4 a.m., January
27th, before the pontoon bridge at Trichardt's Drift was reached. The column had another prolonged
wait here, and so tired were the men that many of them dropped to the ground and slept in the
mud. Early dawn had come when the brigade recrossed the Tugela and toiled up the steep slope
on the other side. A Boer gun sent a parting shell just as the column reached the summit.

It was a great relief to look back towards Tabanyama, where the discarded biscuit tins were
gleaming in the morning light, and say good-bye to that long line of sangars and trenches.
The men's spirits were, moreover, cheered up by the sight of the 'Scotch' cart with the kettles
and rations. Breakfasts were cooked, and after a short rest the brigade moved to the camping-ground
selected for it. But it arrived only to find that the position was within view and artillery
range of Spion Kop. So once more it had to trudge over the veld, General Hart moving it in
line of quarter-columns, and being as particular about the 'dressing' as if he were on Laffan's
Plain. His command hardly appreciated this smartness at the time. But all were finally rewarded
by the arrival of the transport with tents and baggage, and every one spent the night in comparative
luxury.

CHAPTER VII.

VAAL KRANTZ.

On January 30th we were reinforced by a draft of 400 men, principally militia reservists, who
were brought up by Captain Venour. They were a welcome addition, being a physically fine body
of men, and, although their training was naturally not so good as that of their 'regular' comrades,
they proved equally brave and ready to follow their officers.

The battalion shifted its camp on January 29th to Spearman's Hollow, where it stayed a week.
It was here that Sir Redvers Buller visited every brigade in turn, and made his speech stating
that the fighting around Spion Kop had enabled him to discover the key to Ladysmith. He had
earned the gratitude of the men by putting them on extra rations, and was always a warm favourite
with the rank and file, who love a brave man and instinctively know one.

On February 2nd the regiment left Spearman's Hollow for Spearman's Hill, and, on the afternoon
of Sunday, February 4th, marched with the rest of the brigade towards Potgieter's Drift. The
trek was a short one, and at 6 p.m. we bivouacked behind Swaartz Kop. At nightfall the officers
were assembled and informed of the proposed operations for the next day. The idea was to make
a feint attack on Brakfontein and then assault Vaal Krantz, the capture of which, it was thought,
would break the enemy's line.

We rose at dawn on the 5th, had a comfortable breakfast, and only moved off about 7 a.m., just
as the heavy artillery on Mount Alice and Swaartz Kop began the fight by shelling Brakfontein.
The hills around rolled with the thunder of the guns, while the faint echoes of the lyddite
explosions on the distant ridges formed a piano accompaniment. With this music in its ears,
the battalion marched through the gap between Mount Alice and Swaartz Kop by the road leading
to Potgieter's Drift. There was a short halt made at the gap, from which a splendid view of
the battlefield was obtainable. Immediately below stretched the silver line of the Tugela,
with all its many loops and twistings visible. Beyond came a small brown ridge, which had evidently
been held by our troops, since a few biscuit-tins glistened on the near slope. Further away
was the background formed by the Boer position, extending in a gigantic curve from Spion Kop
on the spectator's left to the lofty mass of Doorn Kloof on his right, the centre being formed
by Brakfontein and Vaal Krantz, over both of which heavy columns of smoke were hanging. The
Lancashire Brigade had commenced the feint attack, and its extended lines could be plainly
seen as they advanced slowly in succession, while behind them the batteries of field artillery
had unlimbered on the plain, and were already shelling the Boer trenches.

After a short pause the regiment began to descend the hill. The 5th Brigade was following the
4th, both of them marching in 'fours.' Before reaching the drift, the head of the column wheeled
to the right and proceeded along the narrow plain between the Tugela and Swaartz Kop. The sight
of that long winding line must have been a great temptation to the Boer gunners, but they remained
silent. Not even a rifle had spoken. It was only when the Lancashire Brigade began to retire
that the enemy disclosed himself. Then Brakfontein spluttered with musketry, and the Boer artillery
vented its wrath on the batteries dotted over the plain. But both our infantry and gunners
seemed to treat the fusillade with contempt. The former marched back without apparently quickening
their pace, and the latter, limbering up, trotted off to support the attack on Vaal Krantz.
This hill was being literally covered with shells, and soon had the appearance of a smoking
volcano.

About 1 p.m. the Durham Light Infantry filed over the pontoon under Swaartz Kop, and extended
for the attack. At the same time we were moved to a position below the southern end of the
Kop in order to cover by long-range rifle-fire the right of the 4th Brigade. 'B' company fired
a few volleys at some invisible snipers on the slopes of Doorn Kloof, but with this exception
we did not come into action.

Watched by the whole army the Durhams advanced against Vaal Krantz, which they took about 4
p.m. amidst the cheers of the onlookers. But with this success the operations practically ended
for the day.

The battalion remained all the afternoon in the same position, and then finally bivouacked
there, having luckily succeeded in communicating with the transport, so that the men had blankets.
Its outposts were pushed well round the southern slopes of Swaartz Kop, thus overlooking the
Tugela. A reconnoitring patrol was fired on from the left bank, but otherwise the night passed
without incident.

We did not move on the 6th, and had practically nothing to do. The artillery on both sides
fired continually, although the damage done must have been very small in proportion to the
noise and expenditure of ammunition.

Every one watched with special interest a duel between our heavy artillery and a large Boer
gun which had suddenly been unmasked on Doorn Kloof. This gun fired black powder, and its discharge
could be plainly seen, but it was apparently run up for every round behind a parapet. It displayed
absolute impartiality in its attentions. One round would be directed against the infantry on
Vaal Krantz, another covered with dust a field battery on the plain, a third just missed the
battalion, while a fourth shell would crash among the trees on Swaartz Kop. All our heavy guns
had a try at silencing it, and their efforts sometimes met with partial success. The Boer gun
would cease firing for a time, but it always re-appeared when least expected. Towards the evening
it became quite lively and put a shell through the pontoon bridge.

The night of February 6th-7th was spent in comparative peace, although the Boer artillery somewhat
spoiled the first part of the night by shelling Vaal Krantz. February 7th was a repetition
of the 6th, except that the gun on Doorn Kloof paid slightly more attention to our position.
The Colonel found it necessary to post a man on the look-out, whose duty it was, on seeing
the white puff of smoke, to blow a whistle, whereupon everybody sought the shelter of the nearest
and largest boulder. But although, when the huge shell burst, the air seemed unpleasantly full
of whizzing iron fragments, no damage was done, and the gun merely mitigated, to some extent,
the monotony of idleness.

By this time it was clear that Sir Redvers Buller did not intend to press the attack home,
and no one was surprised to find the army in retreat on the morning of the 8th. The battalion
acted as rearguard and marched back between the river and Swaartz Kop in widely extended lines.
The Boer guns on Doorn Kloof, the shoulder of Spion Kop, and Brakfontein shelled us on our
way, and one man of the rear company ('H') was killed, this being our only casualty between
February 5th and 8th. The heavy artillery on Mount Alice covered the retreat and prevented
the enemy's guns from being too attentive.

The 5th Brigade halted at Springfield, and two days later went on to Pretorius' Farm. On the
18th it made a march of fourteen miles to the Blaukranz River, starting about 3.30 a.m. The
day was hot, and as there was no water on the route the newly-joined militia reservists suffered
considerably. After a rest of two days the brigade moved to a camp near Gun Hill at Chieveley,
where the naval six-inch gun was in position.

The rest of the army was now engaged in the operations against Cingolo and Hlangwane, and the
battalion occupied itself in guarding Chieveley, in beginning the construction of a railway
to Hussar Hill, and in convoying ammunition to the latter place. This was a somewhat trying
task, as during part of the way the convoy became the object of many a Boer shell. The operations
against Cingolo and Hlangwane proved successful, and these positions were captured on the 19th.
The next day General Hart took the regiment on a reconnaissance towards Colenso. It advanced
cautiously on the west of the railway in column of extended companies. The village was found
unoccupied, but a party of Boers, holding the horseshoe ridge on the left bank of the Tugela
opened a vigorous fire. The leading companies at once doubled forward and lined the right bank,
whence they answered the Boer marksmen. The left half-battalion remained in support behind
the village. A detachment of Thorneycroft's Mounted Infantry appeared on the scene, and having
forded the Tugela above the road bridge, turned the Boers out of their position. Later on in
the afternoon a train steamed into Colenso station from Chieveley, and took us back just before
dusk.

At 6 a.m. on February 21st, the Connaught Rangers and the Dublin Fusiliers went by train to
Colenso, where they were joined by a battery. The horseshoe ridge on the left bank was being
held by a detachment of Thorneycroft's Mounted Infantry, but General Hart was desirous of crossing
the river with at least part of his force. For this purpose he had brought on the train a boat,
which was promptly launched. As, however, the boat was small, and hardly capable of holding
more than four men, the General gave orders for the construction of a raft. After some trouble
this was ready by 4 p.m., and some two hours later about seven companies of the Connaught Rangers
had succeeded in reaching the left bank.

General Hart now received an order to cross early next morning, with three battalions of his
brigade, the pontoon bridge, which had been constructed under Hlangwane. The regiment bivouacked
in Colenso, and at 5 a.m. on February 22nd marched down the right bank and crossed the bridge.
One company had been sent back to Chieveley for the purpose of striking the camp, and with
the transport rejoined the battalion about 7 a.m., after the latter had crossed the bridge
and taken up a position on the western side of the horseshoe ridge.

Here it stayed the whole day, all ranks passing the time in examining the Boer trenches, and
picking up more or less worthless loot. Heavy fighting was taking place in front, but only
an occasional shell fell near the ridge.

CHAPTER VIII.

HART'S AND PIETER'S HILLS--THE RELIEF OF LADYSMITH.

               'But since I knew
  No rock so hard but that a little wave
  May beat admission in a thousand years,
  I re-commenced.'

                              Tennyson.

Late on February 22nd, orders were issued for the brigade[5] to be ready to move at an early
hour next morning. Breakfasts were eaten before 4 a.m., and the battalion fell in at about
4.15 on February 23rd. The brigade was to move from the left to the right of the army, and
it was probably the intention of the Headquarter Staff for the march to take place during darkness.
But there was a hitch in the distribution of biscuits, and it was already broad daylight when
we started.

         [Footnote 5: The Borders had been left behind at Chieveley.
         In their place General Hart received half a battalion of the
         newly-raised Imperial Light Infantry.]

General Hart moved his command in column of route, and the long line soon attracted the notice
of the enemy's artillery. It was somewhat trying to the nerves to hear the whistle of a shell
coming nearer and nearer, until finally it struck the ground within a few yards of the column.
Luckily, the Boers were either using common shell or their shrapnel did not burst, and the
battalion had no casualties. Finally the railway was reached, and the brigade turned to the
left, each battalion forming column of companies in succession. A halt was made close to the
railway line and a short distance to the south of the viaduct over the Onderbrook Spruit. But
as a few shells fell dangerously near, and showed that the enemy could still see the brigade,
it was moved to the left behind a rocky ridge. The battalion stayed here for the rest of the
morning. The Boer gunners fired frequently at the ridge, but the slope of the ground saved
us from any losses. Sir Redvers Buller and his staff rode up about mid-day in order to explain
to General Hart what was required of him. This was the capture of the hill known as Inniskilling,
or Hart's Hill. It could be plainly seen from the summit of the ridge behind which we lay,
and all officers and section commanders were called up in order to have a look at it. They
were told that it formed the extreme left of the Boer position, and that its capture meant
the relief of Ladysmith. General Hart desired all officers to inform their men of the necessity
for a resolute assault. Our heavy artillery on the right bank of the Tugela now began to shell
the hill, which was quickly covered by the smoke and dust of the lyddite explosions.

Meanwhile, the 2nd Brigade was preparing the way by an assault on a ridge some 1000 yards to
the front. They had a tough fight, and their wounded were soon being brought down the railway
in trucks and stretchers.

The afternoon was well advanced when the 5th Brigade moved to the attack. The hill to be assaulted
lay some 3000 yards to the north-east of the ridge which had been sheltering us, and the nature
of the intervening ground forbade a direct advance, which would dangerously expose the left
flank. It was necessary to hug the river-bank until a position from which a direct attack became
possible was reached. The battalion moved with the left in front. A brigade in file takes up
a considerable space, and by the time the regiment could start, a heavy outburst of firing
showed that the Inniskilling Fusiliers were already engaged.

The advance along the railway line, through a cutting and over the Onderbrook Spruit, was very
slow, since checks were frequent. The Boer artillery missed this favourable opportunity of
shelling their foes, luckily for the latter. After crossing Onderbrook Spruit, the column turned
to the right and crept along the river. The enemy were sweeping the bank with pompoms and a
heavy rifle-fire, but by crouching under the bank the column obtained good cover for the greater
part of the way. But every now and then there came an exposed bit of ground over which it was
necessary to double, and so narrow was the track that men had often to jump over the wounded
or killed.

The Langverwacht Spruit had to be crossed by the railway bridge. As the latter was in full
view of the enemy and was being raked by pompom shells and bullets, it proved a great delay
to the progress of the column. It was only possible to cross at more or less long intervals.
Each man was forced to run the gauntlet by himself, and had to double over as hard as he could.
Beyond the bridge complete cover was obtained except for a small stretch of ground by the Boer
bridge. Below the latter, the river ran between high hills, and the column was therefore screened
from view.

By the time that the leading company of the battalion had cleared 'Pompom' bridge, the Inniskilling
Fusiliers were advancing against the Boer position on Hart's Hill. It was about 5 p.m., and
the General could not wait until his brigade had concentrated, but sent his troops forward
as they arrived. The left half-battalion of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers formed up near a deserted
Boer bivouac overlooking the river, and then, without stopping for the right half, advanced
to where General Hart was standing.

Lieutenant-Colonel Sitwell was in command of the left half-battalion, and in a short time he
was sent for by the General, who told him to advance and help the Inniskilling Fusiliers to
capture the hill.

The leading company ('H') was directed to extend to six paces and move forward, the remaining
companies ('G,' 'F,' and 'E') following at a distance of 100 yards. No sooner had 'H' company
cleared the crest of the hill on which General Hart was standing, than it came under a heavy
rifle-fire, principally from the direction of Railway Hill. Lieutenant Lane fell badly wounded--shot
clean through the head from one side to another, a wound from which he made a marvellous recovery--and
three or four men were hit. The company received the order to double, no easy task down a steep
slope strewn with rocks and boulders. The railway line at the bottom of the slope was crossed,
and the opposite side of the valley, which was dotted with small trees, ascended. The company
had now caught up the lines of the Connaught Rangers, and all climbed up the hill, the crest
of which had been gained by the Inniskilling Fusiliers. Although the attacking infantry could
not be seen from the Boers on Hart's or Railway Hill, they were still exposed to an enfilade
fire from the left.

On arriving with 'H' company at the top of the hill, Lieutenant-Colonel Sitwell found the Inniskilling
Fusiliers lying along the crest-line and facing the Boer trenches, which ran at about three
hundred yards distance on the far side of the flat plateau. The Inniskillings had already suffered
serious casualties, but, on Lieutenant-Colonel Sitwell stating that he had been ordered to
charge, claimed the right of leading the assault. To this Colonel Sitwell agreed, but it was
decided to wait until the remaining companies of the left half-battalion of the Royal Dublin
Fusiliers were up. Meanwhile our guns and the cavalry maxims on the right bank of the Tugela
were directing against the enemy's trenches a stream of bullets and shrapnel shells, the latter
seeming to burst immediately over the infantry.

The sun had set, and the light was already failing by the time that the four companies of the
left half-battalion had come up, principally on the left of the Inniskilling Fusiliers. Then
the signal to charge was given, and the whole line rose up, and with a yell dashed forward.
But it was met by a murderous fire. In the gathering darkness the Boer trenches quivered with
the rifle-flashes, and the bullets struck out sparks as they hit the rocks. At such a short
range the enemy's marksmen could hardly miss, and the line of charging infantry was almost
mowed down. The assault was checked, and the attackers flung themselves on the ground and sought
what little cover there was.

Luckily night intervened, and, although the Boers never for a moment ceased their fire, the
survivors of that charge managed to creep back to the crest. Here Colonel Brooke, of the Connaught
Rangers, and Lieutenant-Colonel Sitwell collected them, and took steps to guard against a counter-attack.
A low stone wall was built below the crest, and behind this the night was spent.

It was very dark, and the ground, covered with boulders, most difficult to move over. Wounded
men lay all over the hill, but there were no doctors, no stretcher-bearers, and no water. It
was impossible to help or to move them. Their groans, combined with the intermittent rifle-fire,
made sleep difficult.

We had three officers wounded (Lieutenants Lane, Hill, and Dennis), and some twenty casualties.
Lieutenant Hill was again hit as he lay, and subsequently lost his foot in consequence.

The infantry crouching behind the stone wall were unable to communicate with the rest of the
army. At dawn, however, Major McGrigor, the Brigade-Major, came up to the line and told Colonel
Brooke that General Hart wished him to hold on to his position, to which reinforcements would
be sent. Colonel Brooke explained that food and water would have to be sent also, and, above
all, that his left must be protected. Having promised to do what he could, Major McGrigor returned
to his General. With daylight the battle recommenced. The Boers, from their trenches on Hart's
and Railway Hills, kept up a vigorous rifle-fire, and were answered as far as possible by the
men of the 5th Brigade behind the wall. Our artillery shelled Hart's Hill, and many of their
shrapnel which burst short hit the unlucky wounded who were still lying on the plateau.

But the Boers were not content to remain on the defensive. Gradually their skirmishers worked
round the left of the hill, moving by the dongas which ran down to the railway line, and were
able to fire up into the rear of the defenders of the wall. Part of the latter were extended
at right angles to the wall, and endeavoured to drive off the enemy. But the Boers had excellent
cover, whereas the infantry crowded together on the hill presented an easy target. Casualties
became numerous. The morning wore on, and there were no signs of the promised reinforcements
or of the much-needed water and food. It seemed useless to stay on the hill, and about 8 a.m.
Colonel Brooke gave the order to retire. As the men rose to their feet and ran down the hill,
the rattle of the Boer musketry increased in volume, and the bullets whistled among the retreating
soldiers. Lieut.-Colonel Sitwell was killed as he descended the slope, and Captain Maitland,
of the Gordon Highlanders, who had been in command of 'G' company since November, was mortally
wounded almost at the same time. Luckily, the distance was not very great, and once over the
railway line the stream of bullets ceased.

Lieut.-Colonel Sitwell's loss was severely felt. Though he had only recently joined us, he
had given numerous proofs of his soldierly ability. He had the benefit of considerable previous
war service, and had he lived would doubtless have risen to high rank. Captain Maitland, Gordon
Highlanders, had been unable to join his regiment in Ladysmith, and had been attached to the
battalion since Estcourt. Over and over again he had proved himself to be a most gallant soldier,
and had endeared himself to all his temporary comrades (see Appendix). He commanded 'G' company,
which was most unfortunate in respect of its commanders, having no less than six during the
war. Colour-Sergeant Connell, however, than whom no braver man lives, was with it throughout.

As the retiring infantry climbed up the slope of Hart's Hollow they met the advancing lines
of the 4th Brigade, who had been sent to reinforce the 5th. The latter quickly re-formed--there
were not many of the Inniskilling Fusiliers left to re-form--and were able to obtain food after
a fast of nearly twenty-four hours.

The casualties of the left half-battalion amounted to two officers killed and three wounded,
and eleven killed and fifty-six wounded of the rank and file.[6]

         [Footnote 6: There were, of course, many narrow escapes, but
         none narrower than that of Major Romer, whose modesty forbids
         him to allude to it. His helmet was shot through by a bullet
         which actually parted his hair in its passage, a feat never
         before accomplished.--A. E. M.]

The right half-battalion, under Major English, had, during the assault of Hart's Hill, watched
the right flank towards Pieter's Hill. General Hart proposed that they should attack the Boers
in that quarter, but Colonel Cooper, who was with the right half-battalion, pointed out that
the day was too far advanced. The right half-battalion spent the night of the 23rd-24th February
among the rocks on the hill whence General Hart had directed the attack. About 8 a.m. on February
24th, 'B' company was sent to drive off small parties of the enemy who had crept down the dongas
and reached the railway on the left. This company came under a severe fire, and Lieutenant
Brodhurst Hill was wounded in the leg, but the Boers were driven back. The 24th was spent in
a ceaseless rifle-duel with the enemy, who had brought a gun to bear on the hill. During the
afternoon, preparations were made for a fresh attack on Hart's Hill, to be undertaken by Colonel
Cooper with two battalions, while General Hart, with the remainder of the force at hand, assaulted
Railway Hill. The attack was, however, postponed.

The enemy evidently feared another assault, for in the course of the night of February 24th-25th,
they opened a vigorous fire, which disturbed the slumbers of General Hart's force, and created
some excitement.

During all this time the unlucky wounded, who had been hit on the 23rd, had been left lying
in front of the Boer trenches. It was impossible to help them, since all attempts in that direction
had been frustrated by the enemy. But on the morning of Sunday, February 25th, a partial armistice
was agreed upon in order to bring in the wounded and to bury the dead. The armistice ended
at 6 p.m., and both sides commenced firing immediately afterwards.

Meanwhile, Sir Redvers Buller had evolved a new plan of operations, and decided to attack with
his combined force the three hills--Pieter's, Railway, and Hart's. For this purpose the greater
part of the artillery was brought from the left bank and concentrated on the right bank, opposite
the points to be assaulted. It was in position by the 26th, and began a slow bombardment of
the Boer trenches. During the night, the pontoon bridge under Hlangwane was dismantled, and
carried down to a point below the Boer bridge, where it was relaid, an operation which was
not concluded until 10 a.m. on the 27th.

On the day before, the Dublin Fusiliers had been ordered to join temporarily General Barton's
Brigade. It left its position among the rocks of Hart's Hollow about 7 a.m. on February 27th,
and, moving down the hill through the deserted Boer laager, halted by the pontoon bridge. Here
it was joined soon after 9 a.m. by the Irish and Scots Fusiliers, and came under the command
of General Barton.

The battalion followed the Scots Fusiliers, and moved along the left bank of the Tugela at
the foot of a steep ridge, being covered by infantry and maxim fire from the right bank.

After a march of two miles, and at the point where the Klip River joins the Tugela, the 6th
Brigade turned to its left and prepared to attack the Boer position, which, lying some two
miles from the river, stretched from the ridges north of Eagle's Nest to the various kopjes
constituting Pieter's Hill. General Barton directed the Royal Irish Fusiliers to assault the
western end of Pieter's Hill and the Scots Fusiliers the eastern, while the 2nd Royal Dublin
Fusiliers formed the reserve.

The assault was successful, and the greater part of Pieter's Hill fell into our hands, but
the Boers still held a kopje to the north of the hill, and maintained a heavy fire. General
Barton, anxious to complete his victory, directed three companies of the battalion and one
company of the Scots Fusiliers to advance against the kopje. 'B,' 'C,' and 'H' were the three
companies selected, the first named being on the right and the latter on the left, connecting
with the Scots Fusiliers. Guided by Captain MacBean, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, Brigade-Major
6th Brigade, the detachment advanced about 2.30 p.m., and came at once under a heavy rifle
and pompom fire. The companies pushed forward, however, by successive rushes until they reached
a donga some three hundred yards from the kopje. Here further progress was checked for a time,
and General Barton ordered forward three companies of the Royal Irish Fusiliers. The latter
came up about 5.30 p.m., and, supported by the covering fire of 'B,' 'C,' and 'H' companies,
rushed the left of the hill, when the above-mentioned companies of the battalion, led by Captain
Venour, assaulted the right. The attack was successful, and the kopje was captured.

During the advance Lieutenants Haskard and Bradford, in command of 'C' and 'H' companies, were
wounded, and the engagement cost the regiment nine killed and forty-three wounded. 'D' company,
under Lieutenant Ely, towards the close of the afternoon came up on the left of 'H' company,
in order to fill the gap between the latter and the Scots Fusiliers.

The three companies which had made their attack on the kopje spent the night on the captured
position. Captain Venour, who was the senior officer present, re-formed the men of the Irish
and Dublin Fusiliers, and constructed sangars, with a view of warding off a Boer counter-attack.
In the meantime 'A,' 'E,' 'F,' and 'G' companies--with whom was Colonel Cooper--were directed
to the right, in order to guard the flank of the brigade against the Eagle's Nest position.
These companies gained about 2 p.m. a ridge opposite the Eagle's Nest, and overlooking the
extensive plain which stretches up to Bulwana Mountain. The enemy opened a well-aimed fire
on this ridge, and also brought into action a gun which was placed on the shoulder to the north
of the Nest. As the right of the four companies was thrown back towards the Tugela, this Boer
gun could nearly enfilade part of the line. Sangars were built, however, and there were not
more than three or four casualties in this part of the field. The firing ceased at dusk, but
otherwise the night was unpleasant, for it rained, and the waggons could not get near the fighting
line, so that the men had to do without their great-coats.

Before daybreak on February 28th the battalion collected its scattered companies and was ready
for action. There was no reliable news of what had happened on other parts of the field during
the 27th, and the full extent of the victory was still unknown. When daylight came it was evident
that the Boers had evacuated the Eagle's Nest, and small parties of them could be seen retiring,
while the tents of their laager under Bulwana were gradually diminishing. But even then few
could believe that the relief of Ladysmith was practically accomplished.

Before mid-day an order came, directing the Dublin Fusiliers to move after dinner and join
the 11th Brigade, the position of which was not indicated. Major English rode on ahead in order
to discover its whereabouts, but by the time he found it, the battalion had gone two miles
out of its way. The 11th Brigade was joined about 4 p.m., and the regiment bivouacked between
Hart's and Railway Hills. A heavy thunderstorm burst over the country soon after 8 p.m., and
made everybody somewhat miserable, although the officers had been cheered by the arrival of
the invaluable Corporal Tierney, who, as usual, succeeded in giving them food.

The services of this N.C.O. (now Mess-Sergeant) will never be forgotten by the regiment, as
long as an officer who was present with it in South Africa remains in it. Over and over again
he brought up food to the officers under heavy fire, and through those desperate thunderstorms.
Always cheery, ever ready, there he was in his shirt-sleeves, with a drink and a snack, just
as one had resigned oneself to going without anything. A word must also be said in praise of
our French chef, M. Burst, who cooked for the officer's mess throughout, and proved himself
on all occasions a brave man.

After breakfast on March 1st, the 11th Brigade advanced along the railway towards Ladysmith.
It was thought that the Boers would be holding Bulwana, and the brigade had orders to attack
the hill. But it was soon learnt that the enemy had retired, and we eventually reached Nelthorpe
Station about mid-day and bivouacked. Major English and Captain Venour took the opportunity
of riding into Ladysmith.

March 2nd was spent at Nelthorpe. On the 3rd, Sir Redvers Buller's army entered Ladysmith,
and the honour of leading the army fell to the 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers--an honour
which nobody grudged them, on account of the constant fighting they had taken part in since
the beginning of the war, and the heavy casualties they had suffered. The route was by the
railway bridge, and the streets of the little town were lined by the garrison, who, emaciated
but clean, presented a startling contrast to their war-stained relievers.

The entry into Ladysmith, with its enthusiasm and meeting of old friends, formed a fitting
ending to the battalion's Natal campaign. Hardly any other unit in the army had suffered such
casualties. Only five company officers marched through Ladysmith with it. The others had been
killed, wounded, or disabled.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SIEGE OF LADYSMITH.

  'I am shut up.'--Ps. lxxxviii. 8 and Jer. xxxvi. 5.

Chronicle of the part taken by the detachment 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers in the Siege
of Ladysmith from November 1st, 1899, to February 28th, 1900. By LIEUT. L. F. RENNY, 2nd Batt.
Royal Dublin Fusiliers.

The detachment which was left behind in Ladysmith when the battalion was ordered to Colenso
consisted of two officers, three non-commissioned officers and fifty-one men. The latter were
made up by a section of 'G' company which was left on piquet because they could not be relieved
in time, and the men of the regimental transport, which had been left behind owing to there
being no facility for sending the waggons and animals by train with the battalion.

The morning after the departure of the latter I was ordered by the D.A.A.G. of the divisional
troops to proceed to the various camps in Section A, and find convenient space for the transport
waggons. I found the necessary ground in rear of the camp of the 1st Battalion Gloucester Regiment,
behind the railway cutting leading to the Orange Free State Junction. Here we were joined in
the afternoon by Lieutenant H. W. Higginson, who took command, and the section of 'G' company,
when the Gloucesters helped us in every way, and made us as comfortable as they possibly could.
All that day we were left in comparative peace, there being no firing on either side; but the
next morning about 5 a.m. the Boers opened with 'Long Tom' from Pepworth Hill, and commenced
a duel of some hour's duration with our naval 4·7, which was placed on Junction Hill. They
also kept up a continual cannonade with their long-range twelve-pounders, but did little or
no damage, as they had not yet discovered the exact location of our camps.

For the next three or four days we remained in the Gloucester's camp and aided in starting
the trenches which eventually formed the fort known as 'Tunnel Hill.' This was by no means
pleasant work, as it was carried out under fire, the enemy being very quick at spotting our
working parties and remarkably so at obtaining our range. We used to watch with great interest
the duel every morning between the two big guns. Once the Boers hoisted a large white flag
over their epaulement and proceeded to repair some small damage to their gun--they have very
weird ideas about the white flag.

On November 7th our detachment was suddenly ordered to proceed to 'Bell's Spruit,' and form
the guard there. I was ordered to hand over our transport to the Army Service Corps, so we
took away the majority of the men and brought the strength of our piquet up to thirty-one men;
the transport was sent to the railway station yard for the use of the Army Service Corps, where
it remained throughout the siege. We were stationed at the mouth of the spruit just where it
runs through the ridge opposite the cemetery. Our fortifications consisted of a thick wall
with sandbag loopholes running right across the spruit; about fifty yards in front were strips
of high and low wire entanglement, making it practically impossible for the enemy to rush the
post at night. By night we had to man two sangars placed on the hills on each side of the spruit.
I know nothing more productive of bad language than visiting the sentries on those hills in
the dark, scrambling over the hugest boulders up a hill like the side of a house. We were not
very comfortable at first, there being absolutely no shelter from sun or rain, but after about
a week we managed to obtain a couple of railway tarpaulins, and rigged up shelters on the sides
of the spruit. We were all very lucky in not getting hit, as the enemy had a nasty habit of
bursting shrapnel over the place and sending common shell on to the crests, which produced
a shower of rocks, splinters and stones; but although we were in the spruit for seven weeks
with absolutely no cover, not a man in the detachment was hit. During our stay in the spruit
our rations were exceptionally good, as we got extras in the way of bacon, jam, chocolate, &c.

The night-work at this time was very hard, as everybody not actually on outpost duty had to
work at the trenches from 6.30 in the evening till 3 a.m. the next morning. Sleep being impossible
in the day-time owing to the heat and a plague of flies, this continual night-work told on
the men severely. On November 9th the enemy made a feeble attempt at capturing the place, and
came on in considerable numbers against Observation Hill, but were easily repulsed. On the
night of December 7th-8th an attack was made on Gun Hill, where the Boers had a 'Long Tom'
and a five-inch howitzer, besides one or two small guns. These guns had been annoying us very
greatly for the past three weeks, and we were all delighted in the early morning when we heard
the attack had been successful, and the guns blown up. We none of us knew anything about this
affair till it was over. I was visiting our posts about 2.30 a.m. when I saw two large flashes
on Gun Hill; on listening I could not hear any shells travelling or bursting, so concluded
the enemy were amusing themselves by firing blank charges. It was not till we saw our column
returning at dawn that we solved the problem. We found the spruit very unpleasant in wet weather,
as the water used to come down like a mountain torrent and wash away bits of our wall and shelters;
after wet nights we used to spend our time in digging our belongings out of the sand, having
spent the night sitting on the rocks.

About December 18th, after the failure of General Buller's first attempt to relieve us, there
was a general interchange of posts amongst the troops of our section, and the detachment received
orders to proceed to the Newcastle Road examining guard. We were all heartily sick of the spruit,
and glad of the change. It was about this time that our rations began to be diminished, and
we had completely run out of all extras. The post of the examining guard was on the road just
inside the ridge which formed our general line of defence, but by night we moved out as a piquet
about half a mile on to the veld into a spruit which ran under the Harrismith line, whence
we patrolled out to Brooke's Farm, and the surrounding country. I think this was the worst
post we had throughout the siege, as we came in for a long spell of wet weather, and night
after night had to lie out on the open veld from 8 p.m. till 4 a.m., wet to the skin and miserably
cold. The duties on this post came very hard on our men, as we had to find a double and single
sentry by day, so that they never got a night in bed, and only about one day in three off duty.

On Christmas Eve the men came into possession of a fine pig, so that we all had pork for our
Christmas dinner, a great change from eternal 'trek ox,' but unfortunately nothing stronger
to drink than tea. I'm sure it was the first Christmas any of us had spent in such an uncongenial
way.

On January 6th the enemy made their desperate attack on Waggon Hill and Caesar's Camp. They
seem to have completely surprised our outposts, as they succeeded in crawling up the hill in
the dark, and the fighting commenced at 3 a.m. The cannonade all day was something tremendous,
'Long Tom' firing 125 rounds. They kept us pretty busy on our side of the defences as well,
but never developed any serious attack. Whilst on this post we were subjected to a continuous
and daily course of sniping, the enemy getting on the kopjes behind Brooke's Farm, and firing
all day at a range of 2800 yards. At this range the bullets used to whiz over the hill and
drop amongst us, although we were only a few yards behind the crest. Higginson and I used to
spend hours lying on the crest with rifles and glasses trying to spot them, but never succeeded
in doing so, as they used to take up their position before dawn and never move all day.

It was about this time that our men began to show the effects of exposure and constant sentry-go,
and several of them went down with fever and rheumatism; but we were extremely lucky throughout
the siege, having only one casualty: Private Ward, 'G' company, a reservist, who died of enteric
at Intombi Camp.

I forgot to mention that on January 6th our section had to be entirely denuded of supports
and reserves in order that they might be sent to Waggon Hill, so that if the enemy had attacked
us seriously we should have had a hard job to keep them back.

On January 25th the detachment was ordered to garrison Liverpool Castle, a fort overlooking
the Newcastle Road, but we had not been there twelve hours before we were ordered to Tunnel
Hill. This latter post consisted of a large main fort capable of holding two hundred men, and
two small works about a quarter of a mile on each flank, in all of which we had to find a guard.
Our fighting strength was at this time reduced to twenty-seven men, so that they did guard
and patrol alternate nights. We had to send out five of the latter during the night about half
a mile to the front and a mile laterally along the valley. The confinement in this fort was
rather trying, and the eternal manning of the trenches at 4 a.m. very monotonous. After about
three weeks on this post I was suddenly seized with a 'go' of fever, and was sent down to a
room in one of the houses. When I rejoined the detachment, after a fortnight on the sick list,
they had moved to the railway station as guard over the bridge across the Klip River. Here
we had to endure rather a severe dose of 'Long Tom'--this gun never missed a day without dropping
shells into and round the station, it was one of its favourite spots, and all the tin buildings
about bore evidence of its attentions. One shell, pitching in the parcels office, blew the
roof off and the floor in, having first penetrated half-a-dozen walls to get there. We had
trenches on our side of the river, which we manned, as usual, at 4 a.m. We also had to man
them in the afternoon about 5 o'clock, when the train from Intombi Camp was due. This used
to be rather a comic proceeding: a 'key' was made in the line about half a mile outside the
station, where the train was brought to a standstill, then either Higginson or myself had to
walk out and inspect the train to see there were no Boers inside it. We often used to wonder
what would have been our lot if the train had been full of them. On our reporting 'all correct'
to the Railway Staff Officer (Captain Young, R.E.), the train was allowed to proceed into the
station, and the little play was over till the next day. This was undoubtedly the most comfortable
job we had, as the men lived in a shed, whilst Higginson and I had a railway carriage.

On the afternoon of February 28th we heard the joyful tidings of General Buller's victory at
Pieter's Hill, and in the evening descried Lord Dundonald and his men crossing the plain; our
wild excitement may be left to the imagination. I'm sure we all put on about seven pounds of
our lost weight at the mere thought of our being at last relieved. Our troubles were not over
yet, however, as the next morning we were ordered back to Tunnel Hill, a spot we had learned
to loathe with a truly deep loathing. This move was due to our flying column going out to hurry
the enemy's retreat, most of the troops in our section taking part in it. For some unknown
reason we were kept four or five days in that smelly fort, and it was not till March 7th that
we received orders to rejoin the battalion, which was encamped about two miles out of Ladysmith.
We all felt as though we had begun a new life; but it was heartbreaking to see the havoc in
our regiment; one had to look about to find faces that one recognised.

Our rations were pretty well reduced towards the end of the siege: one biscuit, one pound of
horseflesh, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and a pinch of tea is not much to keep body and soul
together, and we were all pretty feeble and pulled down. I think we must have done the record
piquet duty of any men in any service, as we were never relieved throughout the whole siege;
I suppose this was on account of being left as a separate unit all through, but we certainly
thought it rather hard work. It is a wonder that our little detachment stuck out four months'
constant exposure with so little sickness, whilst our luck in sitting under that constant shelling
without a man being hit was nothing short of providential.

I have merely chronicled the chief moves and duties of the detachment throughout the siege:
it would take a small book to set down all our little experiences, details, and troubles.

CHAPTER X.

ALIWAL NORTH AND FOURTEEN STREAMS.

  'But thus much is certain: that he that commands the
    sea is at great liberty, and may take as much,
      and as little of the war, as he wish.'

                              Bacon.

After marching through Ladysmith, the battalion proceeded with the 11th Brigade to a camp about
three miles to the north of the town and on the left bank of the Klip River. It remained here
until March 7th, when it rejoined the 5th Brigade, which was encamped on the south side of
the Klip River, and about one mile nearer Ladysmith. On the same date, Colonel Cooper was given
the command of the 4th Brigade, and accordingly handed over the battalion to Major Bird.

There was another change of camping-ground on March 12th, the brigade moving to the north-east
of Ladysmith, under Surprise Hill. It was an uneventful time, although outpost duties were
somewhat severe.

In recognition of the gallantry displayed by the Irish regiments in the Natal campaign, the
Queen had directed that the shamrock should be worn by all ranks on St. Patrick's Day. Accordingly,
on March 17th, every man wore a piece of green, since shamrock was unobtainable, and the tents
were decorated with boughs. A telegram was dispatched to the Queen, who sent the following
message in reply:--

'The Queen desires to thank her Dublin Fusiliers for their expression of loyalty.'

The battalion also received many congratulatory telegrams from Irish associations and individuals
in various parts of the world.

The detachment of the 1st Battalion was sent back to Colenso on March 21st. It had been just
over four months with the 2nd Battalion, and had borne its full share of the casualties. Originally
numbering eight officers and 287 rank and file, it returned with only two officers and 92 rank
and file.

The 5th Brigade moved on the 23rd to Modderspruit, and thence on the next day to Elandslaagte,
where it encamped a short distance to the west of the battlefield. Here it stayed for ten days,
and, as there was little to do beyond outpost work, the battalion resumed ordinary parades
and route marching.

On April 4th, General Warren's Division relieved General Hunter's at Elandslaagte, and the
brigade marched back to Modderspruit. The 10th Division (General Hunter), which consisted of
the 5th and 6th Brigades, was to proceed to Cape Colony for the relief of Mafeking.

On April 7th, Major Tempest Hicks, 1st Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers, arrived from Colenso,
and assumed command of the battalion. The 5th Brigade began to move by train to Durban on the
9th, and we were ordered to entrain at 1.45 p.m. on the 10th. But during the morning, heavy
firing broke out at Elandslaagte, and, as the enemy seemed aggressive, the troops at Modderspruit
were directed to be ready to move to Elandslaagte.

We had struck camp and packed all the baggage in the train, and had, therefore, to lie out
in the hot sun for several hours, and await with patience the development of events. The Boers
apparently contented themselves by a demonstration, and at 6 p.m. the battalion was allowed
to depart. The train reached Colenso at 9 p.m., where the 1st Battalion was encamped, and Maritzburg
about 4 a.m. Here, in spite of the early hour, a number of friends, together with a band, were
on the platform, and the regiment received a warm greeting. The men were given cigarettes and
tobacco.

Durban was reached about 10 a.m. on April 11th, and the battalion at once commenced to embark.
The headquarters and about six companies were carried by the Cephalonia, while the remaining
two companies went in the Jamaica. They were both slow ships, but the absolute peace, the good
food, the clean baths, and many other luxuries, made everybody regret that they were not even
slower.

East London was reached on the 12th, and the battalion was ordered to disembark, since the
5th Brigade was urgently required to relieve Wepener, which was surrounded by the enemy. General
Hart, with the Border Regiment and Somersetshire Light Infantry[7] started for Aliwal North
at once, but the battalion remained on board during the whole of the 13th, although 'H' company,
under Captain Romer, disembarked in the afternoon, and was at once dispatched by train. The
other companies landed on the 14th, and left East London in two trains, starting at 4 and 6 p.m.

         [Footnote 7: This regiment had joined the 5th Brigade after
         the relief of Ladysmith in place of the Inniskilling
         Fusiliers.]

Lieutenant Le Mesurier, who had been captured on October 20th, but had, with Captain Haldane
(Gordon Highlanders), effected a plucky escape from Pretoria, rejoined us at East London. Unluckily
he at once developed typhoid fever, and had to be left behind.

Aliwal North was not reached until 10.30 a.m. on April 16th. 'H' company had arrived the previous
afternoon, and was encamped near the station, but the remainder of the battalion crossed the
Orange River, and pitched camp about 600 yards from the bridge, with its outpost line pushed
forward on the high ground to the north.

Major Hicks became commandant of Aliwal North, and had no easy task. The town was General Hart's
base during the operations for the relief of Wepener, and there was consequently much to be
done. Moreover, the surrounding country was disturbed, the Dutch population had to be watched,
and there were constant rumours of the approach of commandoes. In the early hours of the 21st,
a report reached the commandant that a large body of Boers was marching on the town. He therefore
decided to bring the regiment back to the south side of the river, only leaving the piquets
on the north bank. We therefore at once struck camp, and, crossing the river, bivouacked near
the bridge. But as the report proved to be misleading, camp was re-pitched on a square in the
middle of Aliwal North. The outskirts of the town were put into a state of defence, and a series
of trenches covered the approaches to the bridge. Although this necessitated much labour, everybody
enjoyed their stay at Aliwal. It was a pretty place, with trees and gardens full of roses,
with plenty of water, including a hot stream running through the camp, with a well-stocked
library, and lastly, but by no means leastly, with a hotel possessing excellent lager beer.

The time passed, in fact, too quickly, for on the 26th news was received of the relief of Wepener,
and orders were issued for our movement to Kimberley. We started at once in two trains, the
first leaving at midnight the second at 1 a.m. on the 27th. It was a long and monotonous journey,
the only breaks in which were stops for the purpose of cooking meals. Kimberley was reached
at 10 p.m. on the 28th, and the train stopped the night in the station, going on at 6 a.m.
on the 29th to Doornfield, about eight miles north of Kimberley, where the Connaught Rangers
and the 6th Brigade were already encamped. Since General Hart, with the Borders and Somersetshire
Light Infantry were still near Wepener, Colonel Brooke assumed the command of the brigade.

General Hunter's division had been ordered to relieve Mafeking, and the General decided to
cross the Vaal near Windsorton with the 6th Brigade, and to advance up the right bank; while
General Paget with the Royal Munster Fusiliers, Connaught Rangers, and Royal Dublin Fusiliers,
faced the Boer position at Fourteen Streams. Colonel Mahon's mounted column was to move by
Barkley West, and reach Mafeking by sweeping round the Boer flank.

The battalion accordingly left Doornfield by train at 9 a.m. on May 2nd, and about mid-day
reached Content, where it detrained and encamped. The next day it marched with the Connaught
Rangers to a position about two miles south of Warrenton. The opposite bank of the Vaal was
held by the Boers, who were strongly entrenched and had field-guns. On the south bank of the
Vaal were the Munster Fusiliers, a battery of field artillery, a six-inch gun mounted on a
railway truck, and a balloon, the whole detachment being under Major-General Paget.

As all tents had been left at Content, the regiment bivouacked, and remained more or less idle.
The Munsters were holding Warrenton, and there was constant sniping between their posts and
the Boer trenches. The balloon ascended daily, and the six-inch gun fired an occasional shot,
while the enemy's field-guns came into action at intervals. It was a monotonous and unpleasant
time for the Connaught Rangers and ourselves, since there was nothing to do, while it was very
hot by day and cold by night.

A little excitement was afforded on May 6th, when the Connaught Rangers and half the battalion
made a demonstration against a drift to the east of Fourteen Streams. The object apparently
was to draw the Boers' attention from the 6th Brigade, who, after a victory at Rooi Dam, were
moving up the right bank. The movement caused a slight amount of sniping, and the detachment
returned to the bivouac soon after 2 p.m.

The approach of the 6th Brigade, aided, perhaps, by this demonstration, caused the enemy to
evacuate hurriedly their trenches during the afternoon of the 6th. Early on the morning of
the 7th, the Connaught Rangers and the right half-battalion started to ford the Vaal at Warrenton.

The river at this point was broad and swift. The ford was a difficult one, being beset by rocks
and holes, and it took a considerable time for the column to cross, since the water was up
to the men's waists. The left half-battalion under Major Bird moved one and a half miles up
the river near Fourteen Streams, where there was a ferry-boat. The latter had been rendered
useless by the Boers, but as they had left the wire hawser, it was easy for the Royal Engineers
to construct a raft, on which the left half-battalion crossed comfortably and quickly.

The right half-battalion joined the left half at the ferry, and breakfasts were cooked. Before
leaving the river-bank everybody made an inspection of the Boer trenches, which formed an exceedingly
strong position. They were very deep, and so well adapted to the ground, that it was no easy
matter to discover them from the opposite bank. Evidences of the hurried Boer retreat were
plentiful in the shape of full ammunition-boxes, half-cooked food, blankets, and kettles. One
Boer, who was too ill to march, was captured in the trenches.

After breakfasts, the battalion moved through a piece of ground thickly covered with bush,
and eventually bivouacked about one mile from the Vaal, near the railway line. The 6th Brigade
halted near the same place, and the whole force was occupied for the next fortnight in covering
Fourteen Streams. The important railway bridge at this point had been destroyed by the Boers,
and the Royal Engineers, aided by large working parties from the infantry, at once commenced
to construct a deviation bridge. This necessitated a great amount of labour, and since, in
addition, defensive works had to be made, we were all kept very busy.

The stay at Fourteen Streams was interrupted on May 15th by a movement on Christiana, a town
in the Transvaal, reported to be held by a strong party of Boers. The whole of the 10th Division
took part in the operations, and were thus the first regular troops to enter the Transvaal.
The frontier was crossed at 9 a.m. The advance was through an undulating country, at times
thickly covered by bush. Towards the afternoon the brigade halted, as news was received that
the mounted troops had entered Christiana. A bivouac was formed in a clearing among the bush,
and dinners were cooked.

The next day the brigade marched back to Fourteen Streams, and reached that place early on
May 17th, having done some twenty-six miles in nineteen hours. Work on the railway bridge was
resumed, and, as the 6th Brigade had not returned, the battalion had to watch a more extensive
area. Each company was given a section, and constructed a redoubt.

About May 24th, Second Lieutenant Bradford, with twenty-nine men, was sent up the line to garrison
Border Siding, where they were picked up three days later.

The deviation bridge over the Vaal having been completed, the battalion was sent forward by
train to Vryburg, travelling in two trains. Camp was pitched just outside the station, and
for the next two days every one spent their time in buying karosses and in shooting partridges.

The 10th Division, when Mafeking had been relieved by Colonel Mahon, was ordered to march to
Johannesburg viâ Lichtenburg. As the first part of the route lay through a country very deficient
in water, the division marched in several columns, which followed each other at a day's interval.
The battalion left Vryburg on May 30th at 7.30 a.m., and proceeded to Devondale, and on the
next day made a march of twenty-two miles to Dornbult, where Captain Mainwaring, with Second
Lieutenants Newton and Smith, joined.

Their wanderings before they succeeded in doing so are sufficient evidence how little was known,
even to our own staff officers of the whereabouts of the several columns. On arrival at Cape
Town in the s.s. Oratava, they were transhipped to the s.s. Ranee and sent to Port Elizabeth.
On reporting themselves there they were entrained and sent to Bloemfontein. No one there seemed
to know where the regiment was, but at that very time the report arrived of the march on Christiana.
Captain Mainwaring then met Captain Carington Smith of the regiment, who was at that time serving
in Roberts' Horse (which he later on commanded), and as that officer was shortly going north
with some men of his corps, it seemed to both that the speediest way to get to the Dublin Fusiliers
was for Captain Mainwaring to be attached to Roberts' Horse. An application to that effect
was made to the staff and granted, but shortly afterwards the news of the Christiana column's
return to the railway came to hand, so the three officers once more entrained, and proceeded
viâ De Aar to Kimberley.

Although Captain Carington Smith did not serve with either battalion during the war, it would
not be out of place here to mention the great part he took in it. He commenced by serving in
Roberts' Horse, and was with them throughout Lord Roberts' advance to Bloemfontein. In the
action at Sanna's Post he was shot through the knee, but resolutely refused to be invalided
home. His recovery from this severe wound was little short of marvellous, and he actually managed
to rejoin the headquarters of his corps in time to share in the entry into Pretoria. Shortly
after this he was again shot at Heidelberg, this time through the other knee, and again made
a second and equally marvellous recovery. Towards the end of the war he commanded Roberts'
Horse, and later on the South African Light Horse, and his trekking during the campaign amounted
to no less than 9000 miles.

PART II.

TREKKING.

CHAPTER I.

VRYBURG TO HEIDELBERG.

  'None of us put off our clothes.'

                              Neh. iv. 23.

Now commenced a different phase of warfare. If, in the constant fighting of the Natal campaign,
the regiment had been called upon to prove its fighting capabilities--a call to which their
noble response earned them encomiums wherever they went--they were now to be called upon to
prove another essential of the true soldier--their mobility. And well they proved it. Day after
day, week after week, the tired, footsore, but stout-hearted column-of-route made its slow
and wearisome way over the apparently limitless expanse of the swelling veld. And how monotonous
that veld can be none can appreciate save those who have experienced its deadly sameness. Ahead,
behind, all round, nothing but veld, veld, veld. No trees, no hills, no rivers, no lakes, no
houses, no inhabitants! Here and there, perhaps, a miserable shanty of the sealed-pattern South
African type: rough stone walls and corrugated-iron roof, a room on each side of the door,
a narrow verandah--occasionally occupied by a quiet, peaceful-looking old patriarch, with a
grey beard, and an air savouring rather of the pulpit than the sheltered side of a boulder--a
scraggy tree or two, and a lick of water in a 'pan'--or pond as we should call it--hard by;
a woman, some children, and a couple of goats; a few mealie cobs yellowing on the roof, and
a scared, indignant, and attenuated fowl.

Alas! how those quiet-looking, quiet-spoken old gentlemen, open Bible on knee, deceived us.
Oh, no! they had never wished for war. Fight? yes; they had fought, and surrendered, and taken
the oath, and hoped never to fight again. Peace? yes; they wanted peace, and urged us to hasten
on and conclude it. The same story everywhere: in the villages as in the solitary hamlets.
A vast, empty, forsaken wilderness, with nothing more bellicose than a lean and hungry boar-hound
or two. And yet for two long years to come this very country, over which the battalion trekked
so peacefully, fifes and drums playing, officers out on the flanks shooting, mess-president
cantering miles away in quest of eggs and their producers, was to be the scene of many a hard-fought
fight and many weary nights of outposts. Indeed, it never really succumbed to the very end;
the happy hunting-ground of the gallant De la Rey, it was a thorn in the side of our leaders
up to the day the Delegates came in.

One day's march varied little from another. Up at dawn, and off after the scantiest of scrappy
breakfasts. Good marching while the dew was on the grass, and the sun a welcome ally after
the clear, crisp, frosty nights; soon, however, to get hot enough, until the welcome mid-day
halt and meal, after which tighten up belts once more and on, and on, one horizon following
another with wearisome regularity, and never a sign of the long-looked-for water, till at last,
as the sun set behind our backs, its last rays would glint on the miserable 'pan' by whose
side we were to halt for the night. And then what bitter feelings of depression and disgust
when sometimes the fiat would go forth 'Water for cooking purposes only,' and one had to turn
into one's blankets grimy, dusty, clammy, and miserable.

On May 31st, the regiment, having arrived at the railway, was told they would halt there next
day. But on the morning of June 1st, the order was given for the column[8] to march at 2 p.m.
to Marigobo Pan, a distance of eight miles only, but quite ten by the route taken. The evenings
soon close in at this time of year in South Africa, and it was almost dark when the column
arrived. As it was a fine mild night, every one hoped to be allowed to bivouac, but tents were
pitched after all, and naturally enough pitched anyhow.

         [Footnote 8: Border Regiment, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, Bearer
         Company, and Supply Detachment.]

In this matter of pitching tents, the battalion particularly prided itself. On arrival at the
selected site of the camp the Sergeant-Major blew a whistle, when all those whose duty it was
to assist ran towards him, the men to mark the tent-poles, bayonets in hand, and two others
with the mekometer, to ensure a true right-angle. Every one knew his particular job, so no
time was wasted, while the symmetrical lines obtained by the use of the instrument were a joy
to the General's eye.[9]

         [Footnote 9: Vide General Hart's letter in Appendix.]

In the same way, whenever a halt was ordered, it was the regiment's custom to lay out their
kits, mess-tins, belts, &c., in lines outside their tents. Each Colour-Sergeant had a ball
of string, which was stretched between a couple of pegs; the kits were laid along it, the string
was rolled up and pitched into a tent, and neatness and regularity prevailed without any extra
trouble to any one. This neatness in camp, in addition to its other soldierly qualities, endeared
the battalion in the eyes of General Hart, a soldier of the old school, to whom order and regularity
particularly appealed.

On the 2nd the column made another short march to Greysdorp, where there were two or three
good wells, but where the water in the pan was of a most peculiar green colour.

The Mafeking relief column was met on the way, and very hard and serviceable they looked, while
several officers met old friends, amongst others Prince Alexander of Teck, whom we had known
at Maritzburg before the war.

A longish march of nineteen or twenty miles on the 3rd, with a halt midway, brought us in the
evening to a place called Barber's Pan, somewhat superior to the generality of these places.
There was a certain amount of water in the pan, but brackish and unpleasant to drink. Round
it were scattered some half-dozen houses, but the most remarkable thing in connection with
it was the sunset. As the light faded, a mist rose from the veld, which after a few minutes
began to change colour, until at last it settled down to a most beautiful shade of light green.
None of us had seen anything similar before, nor did we ever see anything like it again.

A march of about fourteen or fifteen miles on the 4th brought us to a most uncomfortable camp.
On the way, Captain Fetherstonhaugh (acting Adjutant since Captain Lowndes was hit at Talana)
rode off some distance to a flank to try and get some supplies. He returned with a great story
of his reception by crowds of women and one or two men; the latter stated they had been reluctantly
compelled to fight against us at Modder River, on pain of being shot, but that their sympathies
were entirely with us, &c. They even gave him a pound of butter. And we believed this story
at the time.

But, for that matter, who would not have been taken in? Every one coming up the line brought
better and better news. Lord Roberts was close to the capital, and, thought we in our simplicity,
that of course must end the war. No one guessed there was extra time--two solid years extra
time--to be played. So we enjoyed the butter, and said they were sensible people after all,
and hoped we'd be in time for the siege of Pretoria.

The next day's march was a pleasanter one than usual, the halts being better arranged, with
the result that the troops and transport got into camp quite as early as they would have done
under the ordinary circumstances, but very much fresher and fitter. The fact is, staff officers
do not understand marching. They go tittuping gaily past long straggling columns, passing the
time of day cheerily to friends, and momentarily halting to deliver some ironical knock to
acquaintances on the subject of their transport, or their sections of fours, or something of
the sort. But the regimental officer, who foots it alongside his company, he understands marching
right enough. He will tell you when the going is good, and when it only looks good; he will
tell you the effects of five-minute halts, and how much benefit the closing-up rear of the
column derives from them; he will tell you when a steady, swinging pace is being set that the
men could keep up for ever; and he will also tell you when some long-legged officer in front
is going four miles an hour, till some one suggests it is too fast, and he sinks into a slow
and tiring two and a half. Colonel Hicks commanded the column on the 5th, and let us march
our own way, with the beneficial results already recorded.

And that cheery rumour about Pretoria. French reported to be there, and Mr. Kruger gone off
with a couple of millions. What did we care about the latter? We should not have got any of it.

Another short march of a little over ten miles brought us to a camp where there was actually
a stream. Here the men got the chance of a much-needed bathe, and how they enjoyed it! Every
one, in fact, was in excellent spirits, for the news about Pretoria turned out to be true,
and though some of us were disappointed at not being up in time to share in the triumphant
entry into the capital, the majority were all for England, home, and beauty.

On the 7th we arrived at Lichtenburg, a small town or village that was to see some heavy fighting
later on in the war. On the present occasion all seemed most peaceful. The houses were of the
stereotyped South African pattern, with the invariable half-stoep, half-verandah running half-way
along their fronts. Clear streams of water ran coolly and pleasingly by the sides of the streets,
shaded by the ubiquitous weeping-willow. There was nothing to be bought, and no one to be seen,
however, and those of us who went into the town next morning were very soon satisfied, returning
to camp minus the various articles we had set forth to buy. It was interesting, however, to
see the Boers handing in their rifles and taking the oath of allegiance.

Captain MacBean, who was now on General Hunter's staff, turned up here, and dined with the
regiment, and very glad we were to see him. He gave us all sorts of news, too, which we were
very deficient of, as the system of daily bulletins had not then started.

After having halted for the 8th and 9th, we resumed our desert march on the 10th, but only
made some ten miles. It was most bitterly cold all the way.

The next day proved far pleasanter, and another short, easy march of about ten miles saw us
in camp by 1.30 p.m.

On the 12th we made a march of sixteen miles. We were then within about thirty-three miles
of the railway from Johannesburg to Potchefstroom, and, when a wire came ordering us to do
it in two days, we thought a lot of the task, whereas a few months later we were doing that
distance in one day, and, curiously enough, almost in the same neighbourhood.

In consequence of this we marched right through Ventersdorp, to our regret, as it looked quite
a nice place, and there was a regular trout-stream flowing past it, in which a bathe would
have been most welcome. We did eighteen miles before halting.

As indicative of the curious state of the war even in these early days, General Hunter's experience
at Vryburg was a good example. He had ridden on with only thirty cavalrymen to Ventersdorp,
when suddenly some two hundred and fifty of the enemy appeared on the scene. Fortunately for
the General, their only object was to give up their arms and take the oath.

Starting at 7.30 a.m. next day, we made short work of the march to the railway, which we struck
at Frederickstadt, a place that many of us were destined to become very well acquainted with
before we had done. It is rather prettier than most Boer villages, being situated on the pleasant
little Mooi River, whose clear, rapid current reminded us of our home streams. There are a
few trees in the vicinity, whilst on the further bank and beyond the railway rise the serrated,
well-wooded, and extremely picturesque Gatsrand Hills.

There was only one man to be seen, peacefully hoeing his potato-patch. But if the men were
scarce and polite, the same could not be said for the fair sex, who, despite the fact that
their knowledge of English was only to be compared with our ignorance of Dutch, did not fail
to let us know their opinions of things generally. Indeed, the mess-president, who had gone
on ahead on a pony in search of farmyard products, had a battle-royal with an elderly Dutch
lady who asked six shillings a dozen for her eggs.

We heard more detailed accounts here of the relief of Mafeking, and of the gallant part Major
Godley of ours had taken in its defence, while Major Pilson and Captain Kinsman (also Royal
Dublin Fusiliers) had assisted in the relief. As Carington Smith had arrived in Kimberley with
the cavalry, we were able to claim representation in all three of the great sieges and reliefs
of the war.

But a disappointment was in store for us all the same. The column did not move next day (the
15th), but although engine after engine came puffing up from Potchefstroom they all failed
to bring the carriages which our aching legs made us so anxiously look for. We heard of the
strike of forty engine-drivers at Potchefstroom, but as they had all been cast into durance
vile, and the engines still continued to arrive, that could not have been the reason. However,
any doubts we entertained were soon set at rest by an order to continue our march to Johannesburg
next day.

Starting on the 16th, an uneventful march of twelve miles brought us to Wolverdiend, a place
which had not then attained the importance it afterwards assumed.

It was another fifteen on to Blauw Bank Station next day. This march was remarkable in that
it was the first occasion since this trek started that the column moved with any military precautions
worth mentioning.

Leaving Bank, as it got to be called later on, we struck off from the railway, left shoulders
up, in a bee-line for Johannesburg, the city of our dreams, which it was hard to believe was
not paved with gold, if one listened to the reports of those who had been there before the
war. After a short march of ten miles we halted at a farm called Gemsbokfontein, and looked
with longing eyes at the distant ridge, peeping over which could plainly be seen the huge mine-chimneys,
like sentinels along the hills, duly noting our arrival.

A fierce grass-fire broke out here, which necessitated the active co-operation of all hands,
and all blankets, to oppose it, one too-adventurous officer getting rather scorched for his pains.

As we sat at lunch we could see General Mahon's mounted column ascending the long rise to Randfontein,
on our left front, and heard they had gone to Krugersdorp.

'Krugersdorp! Where's that?' 'Let's look at your map,' and so on. Well, we undoubtedly knew
where it was a few weeks later. Moreover, there must be Boers there, for had not a party on
an engine come out that very day, and after destroying a small bridge, and firing a couple
of shots, snorted their way back to the Dorp.

The Royal Dublin Fusiliers supplied the advanced guard on the 19th, and duly started for Johannesburg,
but a message very shortly came ordering a left incline, and nominating Krugersdorp as our
objective. It was disappointing, but General Mahon had reported the Krugersdorpers 'truculent,'
and we had to make a demonstration. This we most certainly did, halting above the railway,
just outside the town, and then--producing drums and fifes--forming up and marching through
to 'St. Patrick's Day' and the 'British Grenadiers.' But, unlike the peaceful and amiable agriculturist,
these townsfolk had no smiles of reciprocation to our advances, and we marched through long
lines of scowling male faces, with here and there one or two of the fair sex, but also, alas!
sombre to a degree.

After emerging on the far side of the town we passed the famous Paardekraal Monument on our
right, and finally camped about half a mile further on. It appears it was a very close thing
whether they opposed us or not, and the peaceful solution that eventually took place was largely
due to the tactful intervention and determination of an Englishman, Mr. W. Bruce Honman, who
had considerable influence amongst the Dutch.

The troops halted at Krugersdorp next day, and the town was formally taken over in the Queen's
name, an impressive parade for that purpose being held in the market square. Each regiment
furnished a Guard of Honour of 100 men. The Royal Dublin Fusilier Guard was under the command
of Major English, with Captain Higginson and Lieutenant Haskard. It was extremely interesting
for those of us who were not on duty to watch the faces of the large numbers of Boers, male
and female, who watched this ceremony and the hoisting of the Union Jack. On the whole they
took it extremely well, and for the most part behaved like brave men, who, having fought and
lost, were content to make the best of the situation.

The trek commenced again on the 22nd, and this time we felt convinced our destination must
be Johannesburg, as we were marching along the Witwaters Rand straight for it. A halt was made
after some ten miles, at Florida, rather a pleasant sort of Saturday-to-Monday resort of Johannesburgers,
with a nice lake and pleasant woods.

At last we seemed about to receive our reward, only to have our hopes dashed rudely to the
ground. True, we marched to Johannesburg, and even through it, but only through the most miserable
of its slums, seeing nothing of its fine buildings, nothing of the wealth and magnificence
we had confidently expected. But, indeed, even the finest part of it was only a sorry spectacle
in those days, and for many a weary month afterwards. Skirting the racecourse, we marched on
to a spot some six miles from the town, near the house of Johan Meyer, a brother of Lucas Meyer.
Colonel Hicks and Captain Fetherstonhaugh called on this gentleman, and got a lot of interesting
information from him. His house was one of the finest we saw in the whole Transvaal, and from
its site--at the head of a fine valley--commanded a magnificent view of the country almost
as far as Heidelberg.

But, as some set-off to our disappointment and long, tiring march of fifteen miles, Captain
Sir Frederick Frankland, who had gone on to Joh'burg, as it is universally called, to buy what
stores he could, turned up just before dinner, not only with a large amount of provisions,
but also with a case of excellent champagne, which he presented to the mess, God bless him!
We were very proud of our noble Baronet that night, and he had to reply to the toast of his
health over and over again.

Sergeant Davis, champion forager of the Army, also put in an appearance here, having met with
no end of adventures and misadventures since the Colonel had sent him back to the Kimberley-Mafeking
Railway. As usual, he had a fine lot of stores, and, also as usual, just what we wanted: baccy,
chocolate, biscuits, sjamboks, stamps, etc., etc.

An uneventful march of fifteen miles, with a halt at Reitfontein, was only noticeable for a
particularly cold night and the final splitting up of the Irish Brigade, the Connaughts and
Borders being ordered to Pretoria.

On the 25th our long march came to an end with a twelve-mile step into Heidelberg. The band
of the Derbyshire Regiment played us in, while our old friend, General Bruce Hamilton, rode
out to meet us. We halted on a slope about three-quarters of a mile outside the town, which
in its essential features is remarkably like Krugersdorp, the streets being lined with tall
blue-gum trees, and the plan of course rectangular, with the usual market square in the centre.

There had been a fight here, and we found Captain Carington Smith again amongst the wounded;
this time, as already mentioned, with a bullet through his other knee, but as cheery as ever,
and smiling away at seeing us all again. Lieutenant Adrian Taylor, of the regiment, was also
here, and very glad we were to see him once more. Like Captain Carington Smith he was detached
from the regiment throughout the campaign, serving with the M.I., and was about a month later
very severely wounded near Parys when De Wet crossed the Vaal with Lord Kitchener at his heels.
Still another Dublin Fusilier met us at Heidelberg--Major Rutherford, Adjutant of the Ceylon
Volunteers, who had come over in command of a detachment of that corps.

In addition to all these, General Cooper (our late C.O.) and his A.D.C., Lieutenant Renny,
R.D.F., were also coming up from the south, while the 1st Battalion, who had helped to win
Alleman's Nek, were not far off.

On arrival at Heidelberg we had marched just 300 miles in twenty-seven days, and although we
had not pressed in any way, we had come along fairly well seeing that we were not bound on
any specific object, such as the relief of a town, or the participation in a siege or battle.
We averaged just over eleven miles a day, including halts at Lichtenburg (two days), Frederickstadt
and Krugersdorp (two days), or just a shade under fourteen miles for each marching day.

CHAPTER II.

HEIDELBERG.

  'Wherever a man's post is, whether he has chosen it of his own
  will, or whether he has been placed at it by his commander, there
  it is his duty to remain and face the danger, without thinking of
  death, or of any other thing except dishonour.'--Socrates.

  'Such officers do the King best service in the end.'--Hamlet.

A considerable force had now assembled at Heidelberg, but it was not to remain there long.
General Hunter took over command from General Ian Hamilton, who had had a bad fall from his
horse, and shortly moved off to the Free State, where he and his men soon covered themselves
with distinction by the rounding-up of Prinsloo's commandoes near Golden Gate, on the Basuto
border.

The 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, a half-battalion Somersetshire Light Infantry, and the 28th
Field Battery Royal Artillery, with some details, were left to garrison Heidelberg.

The battalion was soon split up into a number of small detachments, and posted at various places
along the railway line, which had suffered considerably at the hands of the Boers. Scarcely
a bridge remained intact, while the presence of wandering bodies of the enemy in the neighbourhood
necessitated the utmost caution and continual vigilance on the part of the companies, half-companies,
and even sections, into which some of the companies were at length subdivided.

Headquarters and those companies not on detachment in the meantime had plenty of work cut out
for them too. In order to defend the place two hills to the west of the town were occupied,
one by the Royal Dublin Fusiliers, known as Dublin Hill, and the other by the Somersetshire
Light Infantry. Our hill was put into a most thorough state of defence by many hours of hard
labour and efficient work under the direction of Colonel Hicks. Sangars were built on every
spur and knoll which afforded a good field of fire; traverses and shelters were numerous; in
case of a night attack whitened stones along well-made tracks showed the nearest way to the
various posts; while not only every company, but every section, had its well-defined trench
or wall to rally on and hold.

To some of us, indeed, all these precautions at the time seemed somewhat excessive, and it
is true that no attack was ever made; but just as example is better than precept and practice
better than theory, so prevention is better than cure, and there is little doubt that the fortification
of that hill, in full view of many a Boer field-glass in the town, whence our movements were
of course fully reported as frequently as possible to the enemy in the field, had a deterrent
effect on any designs our very active foes might otherwise have contemplated.

On the morning of the 26th the left half-battalion, under Major Bird, was suddenly ordered
off to Nigel Road Station, about three miles out on the railway to Johannesburg. The Boers
having blown up a bridge between this station and Heidelberg, all stores, &c., arriving from
Johannesburg had to be dumped down on the veld here, and it was necessary to have a force on
the spot to load them into waggons, as well as to guard them and the trains. These soon began
to arrive in large numbers, and as each came up the sides of the railway waggons were opened,
and their heterogeneous contents chucked out anyhow into a huge mass. In the mean time R.E.
construction trains also arrived, and the quiet little siding was soon a scene of wild bustle
and excitement. The R.E. went to work on the broken bridge, and made a most excellent job of
it in a surprisingly short time, though a casual inspection of the temporary structure they
built for trains to pass over gave the lay mind the impression that an extra strong puff of
wind would blow the whole thing over. However, it answered its purpose very thoroughly, and
reflected much credit on its constructors.

In the meantime Major Bird soon produced law and order out of chaos. The coolies were made
to put mealie-bags in one place and biscuit-boxes in another, while the soldiers built both
up into a very serviceable sort of fort for the time being, an example of soldierly adaptability
which was not lost on any one who saw it or took part in its erection.

We spent two or three very cheery days at Nigel Siding, the stationmaster's house (two rooms)
forming an ideal officers' mess, but on the 28th 'E' and 'F' companies, under Captains Shewan
and G. S. Higginson, were recalled to headquarters, 'H' company, under Captain Romer, was sent
nine miles nearer Johannesburg to guard Reit Vlei Bridge, while 'G' company remained at Nigel
Road to watch over such stores as had not yet been removed. This company was shortly further
subdivided by the left half-company, under Lieutenant E. St. G. Smith, being sent to guard
a culvert half-way to Reit Vlei Bridge.

In the meantime Colonel Hicks never for a moment relaxed the soldierly precautions which it
was his custom to observe, whether the Boers were reported in the neighbourhood or not; and
several times rumours of intended attacks did arrive, though they invariably proved false.

The town of Heidelberg itself was very Dutch and seething with malcontents and treachery. One
could easily forgive them for not being exactly content, but what one could not forgive was
their slimness, their plausible exterior, and their inner mass of falsehood. No class were
more bitter than the clergymen, and one of these gentry was strongly suspected of being in
constant communication with the Boers in the field, though his oath of neutrality was taken
and he was availing himself of our hospitality. On one occasion Captain G. S. Higginson spent
the night in an empty house in the town in an attempt to mark this fox to ground, but unfortunately
his vigil was unproductive of result.

Lieutenant Haskard was now acting as Railway Staff Officer, and having a very busy time of
it, as in addition to hundreds of other duties he had to send rations up and down the line
to the various detachments.

On the 9th, Sergeant-Major Burke rejoined the regiment, having been a prisoner since he was
wounded at Talana, and left at Dundee. During this time his duties had been ably performed
by Colour-Sergeant C. Guilfoyle, now Sergeant-Major, 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers.
Lieutenants Marsh and Weldon also joined here, as Lieutenant Supple had done a few days before.
The two former had followed the regiment up the line to Mafeking, and thence across the Western
Transvaal in a cape-cart, following very nearly in our tracks. They had an adventuresome journey,
and were delighted to reach us at last. Captain Clarke, R.M.L.I., who was attached to the regiment,
escorted an important Boer commander, named Van Rensburg, to Johannesburg, on his way to St.
Helena.

It is necessary to explain briefly here the situation of the three companies, 'A,' 'E,' and
'F,' under Major English, Captain Shewan, and Captain G. S. Higginson, which had been sent
out to guard various points on the line from Heidelberg to Standerton.

'A' and 'E' companies had originally gone out, and were posted at Botha's Kraal. Later on it
became necessary to hold Zuikerbosch as well. Major English, with Lieutenant Newton as his
subaltern, was sent to garrison it. Taking 'E' company with him and leaving Captain Higginson
at Botha's Kraal, Major English, with some 110 Royal Engineers, occupied the post, and at once
set about to put it into a thorough state of defence. He fully recognised the inherent weaknesses
of his situation, and saw that unless well entrenched he was practically at the mercy of an
enemy armed with artillery, as he had none to reply with, while the nearest reinforcements
were miles away, and liable themselves to be attacked in force at any moment. He therefore
spared no ingenuity in strengthening the position. Having Royal Engineers and a considerable
number of Kaffirs at his disposal, he very soon effected his purpose and dug himself comfortably
in.

In the meantime signs were not wanting of approaching Boer activity. A large commando, under
Hans Botha, was known to be hovering about the neighbourhood, and as it was also known that
Botha was occasionally in the habit of spending a night under his own roof--not three miles
away--Captain G. S. Higginson made two efforts to catch him napping. But on neither occasion
was the chieftain at home, and the unfortunate Higginson, who had selected the darkest and
wildest nights as most suitable for his purpose, was foiled each time, and had to withdraw
somewhat crestfallen, under a fire of raillery from the ladies of the establishment. He collected
some valuable information, nevertheless, and sent in reports of Boers in the vicinity, which,
however, were not sufficient to induce General Hart to take any extra precautions.

Such was the situation of affairs when, on the misty morning of July 21st, we at Heidelberg
heard the hoarse barking of the accursed pompom, varied by the duller and more menacing note
of heavier guns. Anxiously we asked each other what it could be, and reluctantly we came to
the conclusion that our comrades were being submitted to shell-fire with no possible chance
of reprisal. As the sun rose, the mist did the same, and very soon cheerful messages came twinkling
over 'the misty mountain-tops,' announcing that a considerable force of Boers were attacking
them, but that they had little fear of not being able to keep them off.

General Hart hastily assembled a small column[10] and marched to Major English's assistance,
leaving Colonel Hicks in command of the camp, and as it was quite possible the main attack
might be intended for Heidelberg, we took all necessary precautions for the safety of the town.

         [Footnote 10: 130 Somersets, 2 guns, 1 pompom, 140 Marshall's
         Horse.]

Before General Hart's force arrived, the Boers had commenced to withdraw, having discovered
that on this occasion they had attacked a veritable hornet's nest.

The hill on which Major English had dug his entrenchments is situated in the angle made by
the Zuikerbosch River where it turns sharply to the south, and was on the left bank of the
stream. On the other side of the river was the hill occupied by the Royal Engineers. Between
these two was the new deviation bridge then under construction. The Kaffirs lived in the hollow
between the hills, as did also the Yeomanry, of whom there were about ten, under a very young
officer. Major English had given this officer orders that, on any attack taking place, he should
at once lead his horses down to the river, where there was a kind of hollow place which would
have afforded them excellent cover. This order, however, probably from the suddenness of the
attack, was not complied with in time, and the horses were in consequence stampeded almost
immediately. The natives also were not long in effecting a rapid southerly movement, for which,
of course, they cannot be blamed, and the Boers shelled them lustily as they streamed away.

The Royal Dublin Fusiliers' camp was on the southern slope of the hill, the summit being occupied
at night by alternate companies, who stood to arms shortly before dawn. Captain Shewan was
on the hill, and on the point of letting the men fall out, when the attack commenced. The trenches
were at once manned without the slightest noise or confusion, and the Boers' rifle-fire vigorously
replied to.

The two Boer guns were in position on the hills to the north, some 3400 yards off, while the
pompom came into action near the Fortuna coal-mine. Owing to the excellent disposition and
construction of the defences, the enemy's fire made little or no impression, until after a
time they began to move round to the flanks of the position. Their rifle-fire then began to
have some effect, but at the same time the fire of the defence had a better target, and after
a short time the burghers commenced to withdraw from the rear face of the work. In the meantime
they had swung round to the west of the Engineers' hill, and under cover of a grass fire, which
was lighted by them and spread right up to the trenches, endeavoured to attack this part of
the position, in which, however, they also failed. The enemy continued his endeavours until
mid-day, when he commenced to withdraw, his movement being somewhat expedited by the arrival
of the reinforcements under the General.

Considering the numbers of the attacking force, and the resolute manner in which they had persevered,
the casualties were extraordinarily small, two officers and three men wounded, one of the former
being Major English himself; he was struck by a shell splinter in the eye, but most fortunately
did not lose the sight of it.

This gallant defence called forth a most eulogistic order from the Commander-in-Chief. The
success had come at a time when it was badly needed. The guarding of the railways necessitated
the splitting-up of forces, and in more than one recent instance a commander of less foresight
than Major English had failed to realise the responsibility of his position, with the result
that more additions were made to the already-far-too-long list of 'regrettable incidents.'

The following telegrams passed between General Hart and Major English:--

Helio message received at Zuikerbosch Fort on July 22nd, 1900, from General Hart: 'Received
following wire from Lord Roberts. Begins--"Please convey my congratulations to Major English,
and all concerned on the gallant manner in which they defended their post on the Zuikerbosch."'

Major English made the following reply:--'All in the Zuikerbosch command thank our General
for forwarding Lord Roberts' telegram, which they consider a great honour.'

The following is an extract from Army Orders in South Africa, dated Pretoria, July 26th, 1900:--

'Engagement.--The Field-Marshal Commanding-in-Chief desires that the following account from
Major-General A. Fitzroy Hart, C.B., Commanding 5th Brigade, of the successful defence of a
post by a small force of infantry against a determined attack of the enemy with guns, be published
as an example of what can be accomplished by a small body of resolute men, well commanded and
skilfully and judiciously entrenched:--

'From General Hart, Zuikerbosch, to Lord Roberts, Pretoria, July 21st: "Enemy made a determined
attempt to destroy my advanced post at Railhead, Zuikerbosch, to-day. Major English, Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, commands the post, with two companies of Dublins, ten Yeomanry, and 110 Royal
Engineer reparation party, defending the new railway bridge which replaces destroyed one. Boers
began attack at daybreak with two or three guns and a pompom, shelling the position hard. They
then advanced, and completely surrounded him with mauser fire, keeping it up from 6.20 a.m.
to 11.45 a.m., and it was hotly returned. English signalled early to me at Heidelberg, thirteen
miles off, that he was surrounded, and holding his own confidently. I started from Heidelberg
with two guns, a pompom, 130 Somersets, and 140 Marshall's Horse and Yeomanry, and, on approaching
English's position, found he had already beaten off the enemy, and saw them assembled on the
heights N.E. of his position, and beginning to ride off N.E. My guns opened fire, and Boers
broke into a gallop. The complete repulse of the Boer attack is entirely due to the skill with
which Major English had fortified his position, his vigilant arrangements, and the good fighting
of the garrison. Casualties: wounded--Lieutenant Greig, severely; Privates Mallon, Stanton,
and O'Brien, slightly. The bridge and train not injured. Line only injured to the extent of
three rails taken up. Numbers of enemy's casualties not known. Boers sent out an ambulance
for wounded, and were seen burying dead."'

The following extracts from a letter from Sapper F. Adcock, published in a home newspaper,
are also of interest. After a brief description of the situation, he continues:--'It was at
this time that the heliographers of the Dublin's showed their pluck, for, fixing up their stand
amidst shot and shell, they got their message through to Heidelberg.... We could watch every
move of the Dublins, as the ditch ran in the line of their kopje.... Another bit of pluck well
worth seeing happened just as there was a lull in the firing. Two of the Dublins ran from their
entrenchments to their tents, quite a quarter of a mile, and carried all their bread in a blanket
between them to the entrenchments. The Boers fired three shells at them when they were going
back, but two fell short, and the other was right between them.'

The sapper was right, and it is pleasant to read letters like the above when emanating from
an entirely independent source. Major English reported most favourably of the signalling, which
was necessarily conducted practically in the open, the enemy's projectiles falling all round
the operator and Major English, who stood close beside him. For this service Private Farrelly,
who sent the message, was awarded the distinguished conduct medal. The two brave men who went
out for the bread were Privates Hayes ('A' company) and Townsell ('E' company).

The remainder of our stay at Heidelberg was uneventful except for what might very easily have
been a most unpleasant accident. We were all seated at lunch one day when there was a sudden
and loud report close at hand. Investigation proved that it came from Captain Pomeroy's revolver
(an officer belonging to a West Indian Regiment who was attached to us). He had carelessly
left it in his tent loaded, while his servant had still more carelessly fired it off. The only
sufferer was an unfortunate animal, Major Bird's charger, which was shot in the hoof.

On our departure on the 27th, Major-General Cooper's Brigade took over the defence of the town.

CHAPTER III.

AFTER DE WET.

  'It is vain for you to rise up early.'--Ps. cxxvii. 2.

Having been for a month at Heidelberg, we had begun to quite make it our own, and felt as if
we should finish the war where we were. And although there were still any amount of commandoes
in the field, we could scarcely be blamed for thinking that the back of the business was broken,
and that a few weeks, or at the outside months, must see us returning to England. Well, we
reckoned without our host, or rather the hosts of Messrs. Botha, De Wet, De la Rey, & Co.,
and if we made a mistake we made it in good company.

The Colonel had never ceased fortifying and improving Dublin Hill, and there is no doubt that
at the end of July his efforts had resulted in a very sound and efficient post.

Everything pointed to peace and quiet when, late on the afternoon of July 27th, the ominous
'order' call broke the stillness of the crisp wintry evening.

'Come for orders! Come for orders! Hurry up, hurry up; come for orders!'

Who, that soldiered through those long weary months, but must remember that infernal call?
For it was characteristic of the war, and owing, doubtless, to the immense tract of country
over which it was waged, that not only the rank and file, but even the officers, with one or
two exceptions, knew little or nothing of what was going on. Consequently one never knew what
the next minute would bring forth, and waited accordingly with ears at tension for the strains
of the bugle, whose notes might portend nothing or everything.

On this occasion they were the prelude to one of the most stirring periods in the history of
the war--the first great De Wet hunt. It is beside the purport of this volume to discuss the
advantages of British infantry pursuing mounted Boers. It has often been maintained that the
result of such an apparently hopeless hare-and-tortoise sort of procedure would have been successful
on this occasion but for the fact of the unblocking of Olifant's Nek. On the other hand, there
are not wanting many who are equally prepared to argue that, although this bolt-hole being
open may have facilitated the guerilla's escape, that astute leader would easily have found
some other nook or cranny quite sufficient for his purpose had it been shut; while, if the
worst had come to the worst, from his point of view, he could, at the sacrifice of his waggons
and guns, have dissolved his commando in the night, only to unite again at some more suitable
and less column-infected time and place.

At the time we knew nothing of all this; all we knew was that some big move was in progress,
for, as we neared the railway next day, train after train steamed through, reminiscent of the
vicinity of Epsom on a Derby Day, but that was all. Where we were going, when we were going,
why we were going, were all questions quite beyond our ken--not to be answered, indeed, until
some days later, when an officer on General Hunter's Staff told us what it was all about.

Our march to the railway on the 28th was a long and trying one, variously computed at from
twenty-one to twenty-three miles. Whatever its exact length may have been is immaterial; it
was the method in which it was conducted that was so desperately trying. After the usual sketchy
apology for a breakfast, the column moved off with the Somersets as advance-guard, and 'F'
and 'G' company of the Dublins as rearguard. From a variety of causes the progress was uncommonly
slow, and, no halt being made of greater length than a few minutes, the men of the rearguard
had a trying time, for any one who has marched behind a column of waggons, &c., miles in length,
knows that one practically gets no halt at all from these five-minute snatches, owing to the
necessity of continually closing up. It was quite dark when the rearguard hove in sight of
the passing trains, and then, to make matters thoroughly uncomfortable, some half-dozen waggons
stuck firmly in a snipe-bog, scarcely a mile from their destination.

It looked uncommonly as if the unfortunate rearguard would have to bivouac in that miserable
marsh. As everybody was pouring with perspiration from their endeavours with the waggons, and
as it was beginning to freeze, while there was no chance of getting at great-coats, blankets,
or food unless the waggons came out, out they jolly well had to come--and came. It was ten
o'clock before the men got anything to eat, and 11.30 p.m. before our arrangements for the
night were completed. Our invaluable French 'chef' had kept some hot soup for the rearguard,
and seldom was soup more appreciated than by those famished and frozen warriors.

We now heard that we were going south, and going south by train, and that at all events was
something to look forward to. At least it was a change--something to look forward to with anticipation;
and certainly it is something to look back upon with a certain amount of amusement, but at
the time that railway journey was certainly the reverse of comfortable.

We could not get off as early as we expected to on the 29th. The first train started all right,
but owing to the amount of work to be done in getting kit over a small drift that lay between
our bivouac of the night before and the station, the second train did not follow it till 3.30 p.m.

After this the difficulty of dispatch increased with each succeeding train, until when it came
to entraining reluctant horses and still more reluctant mules practically in the dark, for
there was no other light but the dim glimmer of two candle-lamps, the task became herculean,
and required an infinity of patience and tact. The General and his staff having gone by the
first excursion, the task of bringing along the remainder of the column devolved on Colonel
Hicks, with Captain Fetherstonhaugh as his staff officer. They did not complete the entraining
until the early hours of the 30th, and then only to find the line blown up in front of them.
The fact that no disaster occurred here was owing to Colonel Hicks' determination not to try
to get through that night, as he clearly foresaw what actually took place, and that there was
nothing to prevent the enemy blowing up the line.

It is necessary now to turn our attention to the second train, which conveyed most of the regiment,
under command of Major Bird. Some forty men with their arms and accoutrements were told off
to each open truck, necessitating the tightest packing, which, however, had a beneficial effect
in so far as it took off the worst part of the constant succession of jerks and jolts which
the journey consisted of. But everybody was full of fun, and the men as merry as crickets at
the change from the long days of uninteresting 'foot-slogging' and the prospect of a brush
with the elusive De Wet.

The officers--about twenty in number--travelled in the guard's van, on the floor of which they
made themselves as comfortable as possible under the circumstances.

After passing Vereeniging and duly admiring the excellent work of the sappers, the mess-president
proposed that they should sample the hampers he had provided for them. This was carried unanimously,
but at that moment the train began to slow up, and, anxious to see every new place, we determined
to wait until the train started again, and then enjoy our dinner in peace and comfort.

The sudden explosion of a shell from 'Long Tom' in our midst could not have had a more demoralising
effect than the news which greeted us when we came to a standstill. It arrived in the shape
of a telegram from the General, ordering the officers to ride in the trucks with the men, and
to keep a sharp look-out for attacks from both sides. So there was no chance of any dinners
after all, and all our visions of chicken and tongue, whisky and sparklets, and a hot cup of
tea or chocolate resolved themselves into a lump of chocolate out of one's haversack and a
pull at one's water-bottle. The mess-president proved himself a man of resource on this trying
occasion. With hunger gnawing at his vitals he saw a beautiful dinner laid out in a waiting-room
for some staff officers. Unable to satisfy his comrades he saw no reason why he himself should
go unsatisfied, and in the three or four minutes occupied by the engine in watering he hastily
bolted a fine plate of roast beef and potatoes, not omitting a bottle of beer standing hard
by, and jumped into the train at the last moment, thanking his astonished host and friend,
Major Hickie of the 7th Fusiliers, as the train moved off into the darkness.

Anything more cheerless than the remainder of that night journey it would be hard to conceive.
In the first place, when there are forty men in an open truck, it is very difficult to find
room for two more. In the second place, it was bitterly cold, and a pitch-dark night. In the
third place, the even-money chance of a slab or two of gun-cotton on the line ahead was not
a pleasing one to contemplate. In the fourth place, the men were ordered to 'charge magazines,'
and to spend several hours jolting along with the cold barrel of a loaded rifle poking one
in the ribs, or insinuatingly tucking itself into the nape of one's neck, could by no stretch
of imagination or fire-eating ambition be called comforting. However, there was one fine piece
of news at any rate to act as a compensation, the surrender of Commandant Prinsloo and three
or four thousand men to General Hunter.

Once or twice ghostly forms on horseback loomed suddenly out of the blackness of the veld,
momentarily lit up by the glare from the engine. On each occasion they shouted some warning,
but what it was nobody could make out. Our engine-driver fully expected to be blown up, and
had taken the bit between his teeth, cracking on at a pace that stirred up the living contents
of the trucks behind him, until if any one of them had had a spare morsel of fat on him, he
must inevitably have been churned into butter. Carrying on at this rate, we soon arrived at
our destination, a small station called Kopjes. And when very shortly after our arrival two
or three dull explosions in the direction whence we had come signified that the line had been
blown up right enough, our gratitude to the engine-driver was considerably increased. Nor did
his solicitude for our welfare end even then, for having effected his object, he said we could
have as much boiling water out of the engine as we liked, and in less than sixty seconds we
were drinking steaming hot chocolate, and returning grateful thanks to our host. If any one
class more than another deserved special recognition during this war, it was the railway staff--the
drivers, stokers, and guards. It is no exaggeration to say that during the whole war no train
was ever run at night but that these men did not run the risk of being blown sky-high, in addition
to all the other incidental dangers of their hazardous calling.

The break in the line necessitated our waiting some two or three days at the station, until
the remainder of the column got through. When it was at last assembled, we marched off due
west, towards the sound of heavy firing in the distance. A march of fourteen miles brought
us within sight and almost within range of a long, low line of kopjes, and here, we were informed
on our arrival, was the famous guerilla chief, surrounded--so we were informed--at last, and
only awaiting the arrival of our column to be finished off altogether. Without going so far
as some of the subalterns, who on hearing he was surrounded seemed to anticipate the sight
of De Wet in the middle of a sort of cock-pit, with the British forces sitting round, there
still seemed a considerable number of sufficiently large gaps in the chain of columns and brigades
slowly and ponderously extending round either flank of the Boer position. The firing we had
heard had been from the Boer guns, they having shelled the Derbyshire Regiment out of their
camp, which had been pitched imprudently close to the harmless-looking kopjes. Needless to
say, there was not a move of any sort to be seen, and how on earth three or four thousand men
managed to conceal themselves so absolutely must ever remain a marvel. True, their camp was
beyond the crest-line, but it is certain they had outposts and sentries on the look-out, and
these must of necessity have been posted where they could see us; but certain it was we could
not see them, carefully as telescopes and Zeiss glasses swept every inch of the hills.

Unfortunately we had to leave eighty-nine men behind at the railway, as they had no boots,
a serious matter with every probability of a stiff fight on our hands: for General Hart's orders
were to prevent De Wet going south; to attack, if necessary, to make him go north, but not
to allow him to go in any other direction. This being so, our object was effected, as will
appear later on.

Another and equally sudden interruption to a meal took place on August 1st. Marshall's Horse,
a Colonial corps of whom we saw a good deal, had gone out on a reconnaissance in the morning,
and had some scrapping with the enemy's patrols, &c. But now word suddenly came that they were
surrounded, and in a tight corner. Hastily dropping knives and forks, we fell in almost at
the double, and, though somewhat struck by the incongruity and apparent anomaly in the fact
of our cavalry being surrounded by the Boers when we had been distinctly informed that it was
we who were surrounding them, set off as hard as we could lay legs to the ground. After marching
between four and five miles, well within the hour, we met the doctor of our mounted corps,
who said he had been taken prisoner and released, and that there was no necessity for going
any further, as our friends had beaten off our enemies and were on their way back. So back
we trudged too, meeting on the way what most of us thought was a squadron of cavalry, but which
turned out to be Brigadier-General Little's cavalry brigade. The sight of the attenuation of
this force afforded us food for reflection, and made some of us begin to understand a little
how it was that, in spite of our magnificent paper forces, we still found such difficulty in
rounding-up our foes.

The next three or four days were uneventful. Lord Kitchener arrived and took over the chief
command of all the forces, which now really seemed to be closing in on De Wet. The noose was
being drawn tighter and tighter daily, and the Boers' position became more and more precarious.
What would have happened but for Lord Kitchener's arrival it is hard to say, as General Hart,
ever impatient of passivity, a very Ney for pertinacity of attack, personal bravery, and confidence
in his troops, was undoubtedly on the eve of launching an attack. But in the light of the succeeding
events, it is clear now that such an attack would have been premature and ill-timed. In the
event of its non-success--and we had a very small force to carry it out with--the general operations
would have been completely ruined, for we being the Southern force, there would have been nothing
to prevent De Wet going south. In the event of success it would merely have meant that the
Boers would have slipped away north two or three days sooner than they did, when, seeing that
our arrangements to intercept them were not even then complete, an earlier start would have
enabled them to carry out their retreat with even greater ease.

Major King, of General Hunter's staff, now arrived in camp with a Boer prisoner, one of Prinsloo's
staff. The latter was being sent through with a message to De Wet, informing him of the full
magnitude of the Boer surrender at Golden Gate, and advocating his own relinquishment of further
operations. They went through to the Boers' position, and were courteously received, but General
De Wet declared it was impossible for him to think of giving up now, as he had President Steyn
with him. Nobody believed in the excuse, and its purport is somewhat difficult to understand,
but it ended the conference, and Major King and his prisoner returned to camp.

Major English, whose eye had proved troublesome and kept him behind, now rejoined the battalion,
to everybody's gratification, for the publication of Lord Roberts's army order, which took
place at this time, had made us all very proud of him and his men.

On the 5th an order was given to send out a small force, consisting of two companies of the
regiment, a pompom, and a troop of Marshall's Horse, to a point five miles N.N.E. of the camp,
in order to fill up a somewhat big gap between General Hart and the 3rd Cavalry Brigade. 'B'
and 'G' companies, under an officer of the regiment, with Captain Nelson, R.M.L.I., and Lieutenants
Smith and Molony as subalterns, and Lieutenant Nek of Marshall's Horse, were selected, and
started as soon as the men's dinners were finished. General Hart rode out later on, and, catching
this force up, selected a site, and gave orders to the officer commanding it to dig himself
in, promising that the pompom, which had not turned up, should be sent on.

In the meantime the remainder of General Hart's force also started digging, a very different
state of affairs to his premeditated attack a couple of days earlier.

The detachment sent out patrols on the morning of the 6th to see if they could draw the enemy's
fire, with strict injunctions to content themselves with doing so and then withdraw. This they
soon succeeded in doing. On their return they passed a farmhouse, and received information
that an important Boer General was in the habit of sleeping there sometimes. Visions of a capture
of De Wet inflamed the minds of some of the younger officers, and on the night of the 6th-7th
Captain Nelson and Lieutenant Smith, with a few picked men, made a raid on the house. However,
they found nobody but womenfolk, and returned empty-handed.

Next day commenced our memorable pursuit. De Wet and his merry men had slipped away over the
ford bearing his own name as neatly as a cherry-stone from between finger and thumb, and, with
their heads turned north, were to give us, and many another converging column like us, the
hunt of our lives. The regiment started at 11.30 and only halted at dusk, some three miles
from a range of hills on which rumour said the Boers were going to stand and fight it out to
the bitter end, even if the whole British Army came against them. 'B' and 'G' companies did
not get in until 9 p.m., as, in addition to having an extra five miles to march, they had some
trouble with their waggons.

We marched all day on the 8th in an easterly direction along the left or southern bank of the
Vaal River--a long, tiring, uneventful trek. Expecting momentarily to see our prey delivered
over to us, our spirits sank lower and lower as the day dragged on with no sign of any Boers.
There was the usual aggravating little drift to be negotiated at 6 p.m. only half a mile short
of our camping-ground for the night, but eventually we got all the waggons over, and men and
officers obtained something to eat. This proved one of the coldest nights of the winter, and
there was ice instead of water in most of the water-bottles next morning when reveille went
at 3.30 a.m.

Starting at 5 a.m. we again went steadily on till 6 p.m., making well over thirteen hours without
food. We skirted round the south of Parys, a name which appealed strongly to a good many of
us, and suddenly heard the welcome sound of heavy firing not very far ahead. The column halted,
and word soon came that this time our pains were really to be rewarded; the Boers were only
six miles ahead, and Lord Methuen was engaged with their rearguard. All signs of hunger and
fatigue at once disappeared, the regiment started trekking off once more, instinctively 'stepping
out' as they went. The guns still thundered invitingly just ahead, and as we topped each fresh
horizon or rounded the slope of the next kopje we all expected to see our prey close in front.
But it was not to be. As the afternoon wore on the sound of the guns died away, until at last
we came to a halt at dusk in a sort of amphitheatre among the low hills. Too tired to want
much food, the men sank down with the delightful nightcap that reveille might again be expected
at 3.30 a.m.

The 10th proved more or less a repetition of the preceding days. Starting at 5 a.m., we did
not halt till well after dark, the waggons, kits, food, &c., not getting up to us till 10 p.m.
Seeing that there was no chance of any other food, some bullocks were commandeered, and the
men cooked them in little chunks in their mess-tins over the grass fires. Tired out as they
were it was too cold to get any sleep without blankets, and long lines of melancholy soldiers
could be seen standing along the edges of the grass fires, against which their figures were
outlined in bold silhouette, and from whose scanty flames they endeavoured to get what little
warmth they could. Everybody was wet through to the knee, a good many to the waist, while some
were soused all over, for in the course of our march we had turned due north, and crossed the
Vaal at Lindeque Drift. The river is very broad here, and split up into numerous small streams,
in the wading of which many humorous incidents took place, owing to the slippery nature of
the rolling stones in the bottom of the river. A rolling stone may not gather much moss, but
it is undoubtedly capable of gathering a considerable quantity of slimy weeds, and when concealed
by two or three feet of running water it offers about as precarious a footing as it is possible
to imagine.

Winding our way through the low hills on the Transvaal side of the river, we at length emerged
on to an enormous plain. The far horizon was bounded by the Gatsrand hills, with which, as
with another detached clump of rounded kopjes on our left, known as the Losberg, we were destined
ere long to become closely acquainted. As we finally turned in about 11 p.m. we heard reveille
was not to sound till 4.30 a.m., but when some subaltern attempted a feeble joke about a 'Europe
morning,' his effort met with nothing but silent contempt.

There is little doubt that any one who shared in that next day's march will never forget it.
As we proceeded across the illimitable plain a strong head-wind began to blow, increasing in
strength as the day wore on. De Wet had fired all the grass ahead of us, with the result that
the air was laden with millions and millions of particles of minute ashes and sharp cinders.
These soon filled eyes, ears, nostrils, throats, and lungs, until breathing became well-nigh
impossible, and the agony caused by their penetration into our eyes almost intolerable. But
woe to him who endeavoured to alleviate his distress by wiping his eyes with grimy hands. Such
action merely had the effect of 'rubbing it in,' and so accentuating the misery and discomfort.
The men very soon began to fall out in ever-increasing numbers. On one occasion Captain Nelson,
R.M.L.I., was seen straggling off right away from the column. Lieutenant Bradford went after
him and found that he was temporarily quite blind. At last, after hours of torment, we reached
a pass in the Gatsrand, on the far side of which we halted, as night fell. A big grass fire
almost immediately broke out, and as the grass was long and thick, and a strong wind still
blew to fan it, things looked very ugly. The flames swept right through the camp, but luckily
the tents were not up. But what would happen when they reached the guns and ammunition? What,
indeed, might have happened, but for the gallantry of the gunners and naval detachment, it
is hard to say. As it was the ammunition-waggons caught fire and were sufficiently charred
to demonstrate the closeness of the danger. But, as ever, 'the handy-man' was to the fore,
and with promptitude and courage, that could not have been excelled, managed to extinguish
the flames.

And now for a wash--what, no water! No water, which, hungry and exhausted as they were, every
one wanted even more than food. But, alas! it was too true, and after contenting ourselves
with some liquid mud, flavoured with charcoal, called coffee, and some few mouthfuls of tough
old trek-ox, liberally peppered with burnt grass, we only waited to hear that reveille was
to be at 1.30 a.m. before sinking down to snatch what rest was possible. This delightful spot
rejoiced in the refreshing name of Orange Grove.

The 12th of August. Shade of St. Grouse! At 3 a.m. we were on the move in bright moonlight
and sharp frost, with a wind blowing which cut like a knife. After doing some sixteen or seventeen
miles we arrived about 10 a.m. at Wolverdiend station--a large force of cavalry and infantry
assembled there, moving out as we moved in. Camp was pitched, and a good meal cooked--our first
respectable one for three days--and then--then came the order to start off again in the afternoon.
Wearily we resumed that march, but even as we started the prospect was brightened by the sound
of heavy guns ahead, on our right front. We finally bivouacked for the night on the most stony
kopje in all South Africa. It was impossible to find a spot anywhere that did not consist of
sharp, jagged rocks, rendering sleep, to any troops less tired than we were, an utter impossibility.
A rumour credited Lord Methuen with again having brought De Wet to bay, and we were almost
positively assured that next day would end our laborious march.

No less than ten mules were lost during the day, from utter exhaustion. Many a heart, weary
in itself, ached yet more deeply for the sufferings entailed on the dumb animals.

Reveille at 2, off at 3, was our time-table for the next day. After proceeding some five or
six miles, the force came to the pretty little Mooi River. The Colonel found an excellent place
for us to cross it, compared to the spot where the Somersets were obliged to plunge in. A halt
was called on the far side, and a scratch meal taken. While thus employed, some of our troops
who had been De Wet's prisoners, amongst them a couple of our own men, came in. They had been
with De Wet's rearguard, and told us that when Lord Methuen had shelled it the day before,
they had managed to escape; also that the fire of Lord Methuen's guns had knocked over a Boer
gun and exploded one of their ammunition waggons. They added that De Wet was in command of
a very considerable force, and some distance ahead.

We presently resumed the pursuit, finally camping in some very desolate country, where the
water was scarce and bad. Signs of over-fatigue and want of sleep were now becoming very apparent,
a large number of men falling out and riding on the waggons. Poor fellows! they stuck it out
as long as ever they could, but their socks gave out from the constant wettings, and they pitched
them away, marching on in their boots until the pain of the raw chafes became too much to bear.
There was never a grumble or complaint: a man simply asked to see his Captain, and respectfully
said his feet had given way, and he must regretfully fall out. The officers knew it was true,
and felt for their comrades whose emaciated kits precluded the possibility of a change. To
such a state was the column now reduced that the General, who had ordered reveille for 2 a.m.
the following morning, actually put it back till 6 o'clock.

The regiment acted as rearguard on the 14th, and did not start till 9 a.m., halting for a short
time at mid-day near a blown-up Boer ammunition waggon. Every conceivable sort and kind of
small-arm ammunition lay scattered around on the veld, and those who were keen on curios of
this description made quite a collection of full and empty cases.

The battalion lost eleven more mules, the poor brutes simply falling to the ground from utter
exhaustion, being perforce left where they lay. We arrived in camp at 5.30 p.m., and then for
the first time, in at all events some of our lives, heard two reveilles in one day, the hated
call blaring in our ears at 10.30 p.m. Starting at 12, we pushed on, belts tightened, teeth
clenched, and simply determined not to give in. We were told that the cavalry brigades had
De Wet at last at the foot of the Magaliesberg, only sixteen miles ahead. So on we went into
the sheer and bitter night, more like ghostly shadows than anything else, as the spectral column
wound its way through sleeping villages and over mile after mile of dark and silent veld. At
last our eyes were gladdened by the sight of twinkling watch-fires on the slopes of some hills
just ahead, and as the first signs of dawn began to become manifest, we sank wearily down to
enjoy a few minutes' repose. But it was broad daylight when we woke, and alas! for all the
hopes of the past eight days, the hills ahead were only occupied by our cavalry. Theirs had
been the watch-fires of the dark hours of the night. The game was up, and we were told the
first great De Wet hunt was over. Some one had failed to stop the earth; the fox had foiled
his pursuers, and the various Generals reluctantly whipped off their hounds.

It was a bitter disappointment. We had been so buoyed up by the promises held out to us. Every
one had so thoroughly entered into the job, and plodded stolidly along; and all for nothing.
Work which, if successful, would have lived in history, but which, being unsuccessful, was
fated to be forgotten and ignored; and unsuccessful through no fault of any of the troops engaged
in it. There was no General or Staff to blame: no regiment or department which could be hauled
over the coals. No; some one had blundered, that was all. The point has never been exactly
cleared up, and probably never will be, and there the matter ended.

  'Lay not your blame on me: if you have lost him,
  Why, I have lost him too.'--Othello.

So we turned over and fell asleep again, and woke up at 9 a.m. and had some breakfast, and
were about to fall asleep again when the word came to fall in and march on to some other bivouac.
The one we were in was good enough for us, but of course there was nothing for it but to obey,
and we marched to a small village called Rietfontein. Here we heard that Colonel Hore's column
was surrounded, and in a bad way, some eighty miles off, and that we were to form part of a
small force, and make a forced march to his relief.

Accordingly the column marched at 8 a.m. next morning. After going about two miles, an order
arrived saying we were to go back; and back we went--a somewhat profitless proceeding, but
doubtless unavoidable. The remainder of the day was spent resting, but it was known that reveille
was to sound at midnight, and that we were to make a big effort next day.

Starting at 1 a.m., and steadily tramping on till 9.30 a.m., we put twenty miles behind us.
A halt was then made for a meal in rather a pretty spot, which actually boasted of some trees
sufficiently large to afford shade, and under the foot of some well-wooded kloofs on our right.
Resuming our march, we did some two or three miles more when word came that Colonel Hore was
all right, having made a most gallant resistance and suffered many casualties, and that we
were to go back the way we had come and march to Pretoria.

By the time we got back to our bivouac it was still early in the day, and we had already marched
twenty-five miles. Five more mules had fallen dead, making a total of thirty-eight since we
started on the 7th.

On the 18th we resumed our return journey, if return journey it could be called, since wherever
we were going it was a hundred to one against its being the place we had come from. After a
short trek we out-spanned for breakfasts, and an order was then given that we were to stay
where we were and bivouac there for the night.

We moved to Vlakfontein next day, a distance of about sixteen miles, and the march quite uneventful.
Rumour, however, pointed to Krugersdorp as our destination, and this must have been the exception
that proves the rule, for on this occasion rumour proved right.

Another long and equally uninteresting march of eighteen or nineteen miles, only relieved by
the arrival in hot haste of an indignant Marquis. It appeared he had been at a farm some two
miles off on our left front, and had been offered some tea, which he had refused, and on leaving
the house had been shot at by about a dozen Boers. What it was all about, or what he had been
doing alone at this farm, and why the Boers should not shoot at him when he withdrew, none
of us could quite make out. However, there were some Boers there, so the Colonel fired a few
long-range volleys in the direction indicated, but declined to make a deviation with a view
to reprisals.

Another eighteen miles on the 31st brought us to within about eight of Krugersdorp. About time
too, for the men's boots were giving way badly, and scarcely one in ten had any socks.

The eight miles proved to be very long ones, however--longer than even Irish miles--and although
we had made an early start, it was noon before we at last reached Krugersdorp for the second
time. On this occasion we halted on a hillside just outside the north of the town, and beside
a sort of small suburb on the further side of the creek.

Since leaving Heidelberg we had marched 289 miles. But of this distance 123 had been covered
in the week during which we pursued De Wet, and 228 in the fortnight commencing August 7th.
The longest distance covered in any one day had been the 25 miles on the day we turned. This
marching was not done on roads it must be remembered, but across country, over hills, and through
rivers, with frequent troubles with the unfortunate transport to overcome, and with very little
food, and that of an inferior quality.

So ended our attempt on foot to catch De Wet on a thoroughbred. It was hopeless from the first,
and yet went within measurable distance of succeeding, though even if we had rounded up some
of his force at Olifant's Nek, it is very doubtful if De Wet himself would have been caught.

CHAPTER IV.

SEPTEMBER IN THE GATSRAND.

  'Why gaddest thou about so much?'

                              Jer. ii. 36.

From August 23rd to 28th we obtained a very welcome week's rest, which would have been more
enjoyable had the weather not broken badly, resulting in a succession of cold, high winds and
heavy thunderstorms. These latter were of the most abominable description and a severe trial
to those of us whose nervous systems were so constituted as to be affected by them. Some declared
that they liked them; others frankly admitted that they detested them. They seemed to have
a way of coming along about 4 p.m., and as soon as they got into position, immediately above
our heads, opened fire. Needless to say, in the course of the long campaign there were a good
many very narrow shaves, and one of our men was actually killed by lightning. The storms were
almost invariably accompanied by torrential rain, which, though adding greatly to our discomfort,
mitigated the danger, the local cognoscenti assuring us that even they looked upon a dry thunderstorm
as no joke.

The regiment was a good deal split up at this time owing to the men we had dropped behind us
on our late trek; they had fallen out from a variety of causes, but ninety per cent. of them
on account of sore feet or lack of boots. There were no less than 160 at Wolverdiend, 50 at
Rhenoster, 40 at Wolverhoek, and so on. The Colonel made many attempts to gather up his chickens
once more, but when we started on our next trek we were still deficient of a good many. Major
Bird left us at this time to go to Natal, where he was to arrange about our property, and organize
orderly-room papers, etc. Major English was unfortunately down with a severe attack of dysentery,
and had it not been for Major Rutherford's arrival on the morning of the 29th the battalion
would have been Majorless. Our padre, Father Mathews, presented us with a very fine pair of
koodoo horns which he picked up at a store while we were here. He had originally been attached
to the Royal Irish Fusiliers, but had come to us after Nicholson's Nek. He remained with us
till the end of the war, and proved himself a brave soldier and a welcome member of the mess.

Orders were eventually issued for a start at 6 a.m. on the morning of the 29th, but a night
of heavy rain and succession of thunderstorms put an early start out of the question, and we
did not get off till 3 p.m. The force was known as the Pochefstroom Column,[11] and our mission,
as far as we knew, was to lay waste the country between Krugersdorp and that place, to fight
the enemy whenever we met him, to bring in women and children, to destroy anything in the way
of forage, &c., which might be useful to our enemies, if we could not bring it along for our
own use; to collect waggons, cape-carts, animals, harness, &c.; and generally to carry fire
and sword throughout the land. The recent rains had, however, transformed it into a formidable
obstacle, and waggon after waggon stuck hopelessly in its miry embrace. The General, therefore,
determined to halt on a rising slope on the far side, and as many waggons as possible were
man-handled over the bog. Tents were pitched, but scarcely were they up when a furious storm
burst overhead. In a minute everything and everybody was soused through and through, the scene
being vividly lit up by the almost continuous flashes of vivid lightning, while the crashing,
bellowing boom of the thunder in our ears made voices inaudible and orders perfectly useless.
What sort of teas the regimental cooks prepared we did not know, but the invaluable and ubiquitous
Corporal Tierney managed to bring each of us a cup of hot tea and a rasher or a steak in our
tents. The storm lasted till dawn, when the heavy clouds, as if despoiled of their victims
by the rising sun, reluctantly drew off northwards. A glorious morning was the consequence,
but, of course, there was no chance of trekking for some hours to come.

At 2 p.m. a start was again made, but as the tents and everything else were soaked through,
and weighed fifty per cent. more than they would under ordinary circumstances, there was little
hope that our transport animals would be able to drag them through any bad drifts. We only
managed to do some seven miles before darkness came on, when we camped for the night at the
Madeline Gold-mine. It was jumpy work here, as the whole place was honeycombed with prospecting-holes
and ditches, varying in depth from three feet to about three hundred. How on earth no one fell
in must ever remain a mystery, as, to add to the delightful freshness of the situation, a large
herd of bullocks took command, and meandered through the camp, one of which moved the mess
president on some considerable distance, fortunately for him with a horn on each side of him,
instead of one through him, as was doubtless intended.

We marched from the Madeline at 7 a.m. on August 31st, and after trekking some miles arrived
at a large coal-mine, which seemed to be in very good order. This country had been the scene
of a goodish bit of fighting. Not far off the ill-fated Jameson raid had come to its inglorious
conclusion; a little further on the Gordons had suffered severely during the advance on Johannesburg;
and here the Pochefstroom column was to be 'blooded.'

We did not know that anything interesting was on the tapis until we saw the white cotton-wool
puffs of our shrapnel bursting against a range of kopjes in our front. Then the Colonel told
us that there were supposed to be a good many Boers on ahead, and that the General had gone
off with a portion of the column to attack them, while we were to advance and seize and hold
a nek, with a view to cutting off the retreating Boers, or threatening their left flank, or
reinforcing our right, or some obscure purpose. It was the same in so many of our days of scrapping
and trekking. Talk about the fog of war: we who were actually in the battle knew nothing about
it. Doubtless the Commanding Officer was in the know, but the Company Officer, the commander
of what is now recognised as the real fighting unit, he knew nothing. It was a funny fight.
We trekked along, unconcernedly watching the pretty effect of our friends the gunners' practice;
able with glasses to see the stones and dust driven ahead when the shells burst low; but unable
to see any Boers. On reaching our destined spot we lay down and had a smoke, and thought of
all sorts of things other than fighting, until at last news came from the General, and we heard
we had fifteen casualties. So it had been quite a battle after all, as fights were going in
those days, when any scrap that resulted in a casualty was known as a hardly-contested engagement.

On the 1st we moved to a rather pretty camp, close under the far side of the hills, called
Jakfontein. The General and the troops he had with him on the 31st arrived at about 5.15 p.m.,
and camped alongside. The General told the Colonel they had had quite a victory yesterday,
driving the Boers from their position, and occupying it at nightfall. They also thought they
had done a good deal of damage to them with our guns, as they withdrew.

The column did not march on the 2nd, but two companies ('E' and 'F') under Captain Shewan proceeded
to Bank Station as escort to the wounded, while two more ('A' and 'B'), under Major Rutherford,
were sent off to commence the burning and looting, which, as far as we could understand, was
the raison d'être of the column. However that might be, there was a tremendous fuss on their
return, and all sorts of accusations made re looting. There is no disguising the fact that
we were altogether too squeamish, and that the orders on these and subsequent occasions were
capable of more than one interpretation. Here were we in an enemy's country, badly off for
a cart, let us say, for the officers' mess; the very thing is found in an unoccupied farm;
to bring it along and use it was to loot: to burn it was to obey orders. At this length of
time it is easy to write dispassionately, and there can be no harm in saying that it was vexing
to be found fault with when under the impression that one was doing one's best for the general
good, and not in any way profiting oneself. A few days later an officer searching a farm for
concealed weapons, &c., came across a heavy ebony stick--just the thing he wanted. The old
Boer lady made a great fuss about his taking it, saying it was all she had to beat the Kaffirs
with. That finally determined him, more especially as he was not exactly standing on ceremony
at the time, seeing the next company was being sniped at, and his turn liable to come at any
moment.

Captain G. S. Higginson was appointed Remount officer, and from this moment we began to lose
sight of him, to everybody's great regret.

After spending another day in bringing in forage and supplies, the column started at 9 p.m.
on the 3rd on a night march. For the first four or five miles all went well, and the advance-guard,
under the careful leading of Captain Romer, maintained the right direction. Then, however,
the road made a sharp turn, and although Captain Romer's party followed the turn right enough,
part of his advance-guard, under a subaltern, went wandering off into the black night. It took
some time to retrieve them, and as the column immediately afterwards came to a deep drift,
it was considerably delayed. 'G' company was sent up a high hill on the left to guard that
flank until the whole of the transport and rearguard was past, and the cold on the top was
a thing to remember. The main column got into bivouac shortly after 1 a.m., but this unfortunate
company was out till 5, which, seeing the march was resumed at 6, was rather hard luck. However,
there was plenty of that going for everybody in those days, and after the usual short 'grouse,'
the sleepless night was forgotten.

After moving into the hills about eight miles further, and passing through some beautiful farms,
with every peachtree a mass of glorious bloom, the column halted. The Imperial Yeomanry, who
had been scouting far ahead, now found themselves perilously involved with a small body of
the enemy. General Hart, with a portion of the column, including the artillery and naval gun,
moved out to extricate them, and very soon we heard heavy fighting going on. He succeeded in
his object, however, at the expense of four of the Yeomanry wounded and one man killed. In
the meantime, Colonel Hicks had thrown out outposts on the hills, 'G' company coming in for
another sleepless night, probably through some mistake in the roster. Captain Nelson, R.M.L.I.
(attached), had a somewhat peculiar experience. Having been detained for some purpose when
his company was going out, he gave Lieutenant Marsh, his subaltern, orders where to go, and
later on followed himself. But then he couldn't find them. Nor could the other companies on
other hills see anything of them, though signals were flashed in the direction they had taken.
It was not until next morning that they were discovered, quite close to the place they had
been ordered to go to. It was characteristic of the nature of the country in which we were
operating, and the excellent manner in which they hid themselves, that Captain Nelson should
have missed them, for at one time he must have passed quite close to the piquet.

Next morning Boers were reported in the vicinity. It is impossible to say they were in our
front, as our front coincided with the report of the first visible Boer, and we simply went
for anything we saw. Rumour put this force at 700 strong, but most people considered that an
exaggerated estimate. We moved off in three columns: the South Wales Borderers took the right,
moving along the difficult, serrated tops of the hills; the cavalry and yeomanry took the lower,
more undulating, easier hills to the left, while the rest of us with the guns moved along in
the centre; the General, conspicuous by a large red flag which a trooper carried behind him,
moving wherever any opposition presented itself. It must be the unanimous opinion of all troops
who knew our General, that a braver man never fought in action, but at the same time the man
who carried that red flag deserved some honourable distinction. Perhaps he got it; probably
he did not.

After moving some two or three miles, our further way was blocked by mauser-fire from a very
ominous, black-looking kopje which stretched down into the valley from the high ground on our
left. The guns came into action against this hill at a range of about two thousand yards, and
it seemed as if a golden-crested wren could not have escaped if it had been unlucky enough
to be there. The shrapnel kept up an almost incessant hail, covering the wooded sides of the
kopje with jets of round white balls of smoke, while every now and then the deeper note of
the 4·7 was followed by a huge cloud of dust and yellowish vapour thrown up, and off, by the
explosion of the lyddite in the huge projectile. How many Boers held that hill will probably
never be known; only four were found. But a strange spectacle ensued. Emerging from the cover
on the far side, rode, ventre-à-terre, a solitary horseman. Immediately two companies extended
in our front opened fire on him. How he escaped was a marvel, for in front, behind, on every
side of him could be seen 'the bullets kicking dust-spots on the green.' But escape he did,
and many a 'Good luck to you' went after him, for he was a bold man to have stayed as long
as he had, and fully deserved to escape. Our bombardment had effected one useful purpose. Amongst
the killed was a Commandant called Theron, a brave, enterprising young fellow of about twenty-five
years of age, whose exploits had already stamped him as a born leader of men. Our own casualties
amounted to four yeomen wounded.

We camped a little further on, and buried our enemy, and one of our own men who had died from
his wounds, side by side, with all due honour, ceremony, and respect.

September 6th was an unpleasant day. In the first place we made a very early start, which,
after the two previous nights' work, was rather hard on the troops. Several had been without
sleep for two nights, and engaged with the enemy all day. As far as fighting went this long-range
scrapping was not of course worthy of the name, but as far as discomfort and fatigue were concerned,
the operations were entitled to the most dignified and resonant title in the vocabulary. The
6th was an example. In the first place there was no fighting; in the second place, there was
very little marching; in the third place, there was no rest; in the fourth place, there was
no food. In the absence of definite orders the commanding officers delayed for a long time
ere venturing to outspan and cook: when they did do so orders immediately arrived, scattering
companies right, left, and centre, on the burning and capturing expeditions. Finally, when
orders were published, they were for another night march, the object and destination of which
were concealed even from officers commanding regiments. However, there was nothing for it but
to make the best of an unpleasant state of affairs, to snatch a few mouthfuls of food whenever
possible and a few minutes' sleep at any opportunity and once more the long column wound its
way through the night. It arrived on the morning of the 7th at Wolverdiend station, where there
was now a considerable garrison, among them 140 of our own men, who had been there since the
De Wet trek. The day was passed in shifting camp and fatigue work in the station, where there
was much to do in the way of loading and unloading trains.

Captain Romer got three days' leave here to meet his father, the famous judge, who had come
out as President of the Royal Commission.

At 9 p.m. the column started on another night march, the battalion supplying the rearguard.
It was weary work waiting on those occasions. Tents were struck, and coats, blankets, &c.,
packed on the waggons an hour before the advance-guard was due to march off, after which there
was nothing to do but lie down on the ground in the bitter cold, and wait till all the transport
had got away. Nor did the advance-guard have very much the best of it, as they of course arrived
hours before the waggons, and had their shivering turn in the early morning, at the other end
of the march.

By 10 a.m. the column arrived at Klerkskraal, a small and very widely scattered village on
the banks of the beautiful Mooi River, a stream of the clearest and most delicious water. Companies
were sent to clear out the neighbouring farms as usual, and a good deal of information was
gathered about a considerable quantity of the enemy, who had been trekking through for some
time past in small groups.

A dozen fine Indian tents, the gift of Rai Bahadur Boota Singh, of Rawal Pindi, were handed
over to us here for the use of the officers. Very welcome they proved, as our old ones were
nearly worn out.

Sunday, September 9th, 1900, was a day that will live long in the annals of the battalion.
It was given out that in view of the hard work done by the troops, the day would be treated
as a day of rest, almost immediately following which order came another, detailing two companies
of each corps to go out on the unpleasant foraging duties. The roster declared that 'G' and
'H' companies were next in succession, and these two companies started immediately, officers
and men snatching a hasty and very scratch breakfast before starting. They were out all day,
from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., during which time they were gathering in supplies of straw, fodder,
&c., together with all carts, waggons, and harness in a serviceable condition, burning such
as they could not carry away with them. At about 5 p.m. a heliograph message recalled them
to camp, in reaching which they had to cross a small stream with a snipe-marsh on either side:
the waggons of course stuck, but the men set to with a will, impelled doubtless by a keen desire
to get back to their dinners in camp, and dragged them out one by one with ropes. A dismal
surprise was in store for them. For even as they came in sight of the camp, it was struck,
and in place of the dinners they had so fondly anticipated, some tea alone awaited them. The
officers were even worse off, for as the mess president had been employed with the two companies
out foraging, no one else had thought of keeping even a cup of tea for them, and, exhausted
as they were by ten hours' work without food, under a burning sun, they received the pleasing
intelligence that the column was starting at once to march to Pochefstroom, a distance variously
estimated at from thirty-five to thirty-eight miles.

The force marched in three parts. First, mounted men, guns, and 'A' and 'E' companies Royal
Dublin Fusiliers in waggons. Then the main body of infantry, and lastly the transport with
'G' and 'H' companies Royal Dublin Fusiliers as rearguard. There was a moon for most of the
way, but it only served to make the surroundings more weird. Parallel to our right ran a low
range of hills, whilst on the left was the Mooi River, with a farm looming up out of the night
every mile or so along the way. There was one halt of half an hour towards midnight, but the
remainder of the halts were merely of the usual five minutes' duration. And hard it was to
resume the weary way at the end of even those brief spells of rest. Every one was so fit that
the actual marching was nothing like so trying as the difficulty of keeping awake through the
long, dreary hours, and one would time after time drop asleep as one walked mechanically along,
only to wake in the very act of falling. Frederickstadt was reached in the small hours of the
morning, and the stream crossed to its left bank. There was then a halt of about an hour to
close up the transport, and very welcome it was, for we were still an ordinary day's march
from our destination. Turning to our right, we brought the Gatsrands on our left, and the word
went forth that the Boers were in them, a report which seemed to be confirmed a moment later
as a blaze of light suddenly appeared above their summits. 'There they are!' 'That's their
signal lamp!' were the comments that greeted the glory of the morning star, whether Jupiter
or Venus, on that as on many a previous and subsequent occasion. On straggled the column, many
of the men completely worn out, having been reluctantly compelled to avail themselves of the
permission to ride on the waggons; the remainder, with grim determination to march till they
dropped, trudging patiently and silently on. At last came the welcome flush of dawn; no 'envious
streaks' these, but the first message from the longed-for day which ended that abominable night.
When Pochefstroom finally came in sight it was still a good five miles off, and those last
five miles were as bad as any part of the march. For though in some mysterious way the coming
of day had dispelled to a great extent the deadly sleepiness from which most of us suffered,
our aching limbs now began to make themselves manifest, and those far-off trees never seemed
to get any nearer. However, by ten o'clock the last man was in, but very nearly done. It had
been a remarkable march--very remarkable seeing the conditions under which some of the troops
performed it.[12] For to do from thirty-five to thirty-eight miles, most of it by night, on
an empty stomach, after a hard ten hours' work under a hot sun, in sixteen hours, is a performance
of which any troops may be justly proud.

         [Footnote 12: That minor operations such as these should
         receive but scant recognition at the hands of historians is
         not to be wondered at, but neither the official nor the
         Times histories in their accounts of this surprise of
         Pochefstroom found space to mention the length of this march,
         an omission which is very greatly to be wondered at.]

Nor was it altogether without result, for our mounted and waggon-carried troops had arrived
much earlier, and, fairly taking the place by surprise, had surrounded it, killed seven, and
captured some seventy or eighty prisoners, and put a good many more to ignominious and hasty
flight.

We also obtained some draught beer. Beer! None of us had tasted it for months. How it went
down! Yet our memory of it is sad, for the unfortunate manager of the brewery was afterwards
shot by the Boers for selling it to us. The column remained at Pochefstroom till the 12th,
our stay being darkened by the melancholy death of the signalling officer, Lieutenant Maddox,
of the Somersetshire Light Infantry, who was shot through the heart while going round his stations.

On the 12th Colonel Hicks took command of a small force[13] which moved out to occupy some
kopjes overlooking two drifts over the Mooi River. Starting at about 3 p.m., we did not reach
our destination (some five miles south of Frederickstadt) till dark. Somewhat to our surprise,
the hills were unoccupied, as Boers were known to be in the vicinity, while there had been
a certain amount of distant sniping throughout the march. Putting piquets at the drifts, the
infantry and guns occupied one hill, and the mounted troops another hard by. We had just turned
in for the night when a sharp rifle-fire broke out all along the front, to which our sentries
were not slow to respond. We immediately occupied the posts to which we had been assigned,
but the firing soon died away. No one was hit by the enemy, but an unfortunate trooper in Marshall's
Horse was shot by a comrade, and later on succumbed to the wound.

         [Footnote 13: Royal Dublin Fusiliers, 100 cavalry, two
         guns.]

At daybreak on the 13th, we located a Boer laager some five miles out on the plain. One of
our officers had a deer-stalking telescope, with which it was possible to follow the movements
of the Boers as they woke up, a most interesting spectacle. They were of course far out of
range of our fifteen-pounders, but just as we were regretting our inability to get at them,
General Hart's force from Pochefstroom could be seen trekking slowly in their direction from
our left front. We, from our elevated position, could see what the Boers could not, and to
watch our comrades creeping slowly nearer, while the Boers were loitering about and stretching
themselves, was a sight the opportunity to view which was seldom afforded in the course of
the war. But long before the General got close enough to do any harm, the alarm went. Any one
who has ever seen a pebble cast into an ants' nest can realise the proceedings of the next
two minutes. Darting about in every direction, the Boers caught their horses and inspanned
their transport with a celerity which fairly took our breath away, and in what seemed an incredibly
short space of time they were trekking away across our right front, their movements still more
hastened by a few rounds from the naval guns. Moreover, they came within very long range of
our fifteen-pounders, so we were enabled to return them a 'quid' for their 'quo' of the previous
night, with probably about the same result to their skins, though one riderless horse could
be seen careering about.

A helio message from the General instructed us to march off and join him at Frederickstadt,
where we arrived that afternoon, spending the morning in the usual domiciliary visits, getting
a really handsome waggon for the mess, and carefully searching a farmhouse belonging to the
Bezuidenhouts.

On the 14th there was a considerable amount of firing in the neighbourhood, but nobody seemed
to take much interest in it. As, however, it resulted in the loss of twelve mules and some
waggons, and one gunner wounded, it is hoped that we did some damage in return.

On the 15th Colonel Hicks again took out a small force of all arms,[14] for the purpose of
getting in more stores, of burning Bezuidenhout's farm (it being now clear he had murdered
two telegraphists), and to hold the kopjes we were on the 13th, while the Somersetshire Light
Infantry marched to join us from Pochefstroom. The country was now thoroughly infested with
Boers, who made some slight effort to oppose Colonel Hicks. He very soon brushed them aside,
however, and, marching his force along two parallel ranges of low hills, arrived at the place
where we had bivouacked on the night of the 12th-13th. Dinners were cooked on arrival before
the companies went out marauding. Whilst they were being prepared a cartridge went off in one
of the fires, and severely wounded one of the cooks, the bullet penetrating his chest. This
poor fellow was later on sent into hospital at Krugersdorp, and, as the wound never improved,
was eventually invalided home. But the line was blown up just in front of his train, and he
was brought back to hospital. He soon began to recover, and one day went wandering about without
his hat, got sunstroke, and died, one piece of bad luck on the top of another, and a melancholy
example of how 'when sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions.'

         [Footnote 14: Royal Dublin Fusiliers, two guns, twenty-five
         Yeomanry.]

A convoy under Captain H. W. Higginson, arrived at Frederickstadt at this time, after having
been considerably pestered by some Boers who had shelled him with a nine-pounder Krupp, and
severely wounded one of our men. Luckily, the General had sent out a small force with two guns
to meet this convoy, or it might have had a very much worse time.

Next day Bezuidenhout's farm was duly burnt, and at 3 p.m. the force started to march back
to Frederickstadt, the Somersetshire Light Infantry (wing) under Major Williams, with eighty
prisoners, a large number of refugees and waggons, starting an hour earlier, having of course
further to go. The march was not interfered with, and the force reached its old quarters once
more before dark.

The dreary monotony of these days and nights of trekking and foraging suffered a variation
on the 17th. In the morning 'A' company, under Major Rutherford, took over the eighty odd prisoners
from Pochefstroom, and marched off with them to Wolverdiend. In the afternoon a shell suddenly
burst in the middle of the camp. The cheek of these foes of ours. The first arrival was shortly
followed by several more in quick succession, some of which landed in camp, and some of which
went over our heads. We turned out, lowered the tents, and then lay down in extended order,
trying to locate the position of the hostile gun. At last some one saw the flash, after which
our naval gun and fifteen-pounders picked up the range with admirable celerity, immediately
silencing the opposition. At a range of 3600 yards, the second shot from the naval gun had
burst within four feet of the marks of the Krupp nine-pounder which had been shelling us.

At the time the enemy opened fire a regimental court-martial for the trial of twenty-one prisoners
had just assembled, under the presidency of Captain Shewan. On the arrival of the shells, the
court, escort, witnesses and prisoners dissolved themselves with one accord, and were not afterwards
reassembled.

  'In such a time as this it is not meet
  That every nice offence should bear his comment.'

                              Julius Cæsar.

The sun was in the enemy's eyes, and the village of Frederickstadt almost immediately behind
our camp, which may account in some measure for the indifference of their fire, as we must
have offered a magnificent target to them. As it was, our only losses were four horses, not
a man being hit. But we were fairly caught napping.

The General ordered the regiment to take possession of the hill, which was done without any
further fighting, two companies being left on outpost duty on its summit.

On the 18th some of the usual desultory sniping commenced on the other side of the camp, but
a demonstration by the inlying piquet ('G' company, 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers) was sufficient
to put a stop to it.

Major Bird arrived back from Maritzburg. Next day the trek commenced once more. A small force[15]
was left behind under command of Major Bird to hold the hills from which we had been shelled,
and to take care of most of the transport. The remainder of the column marched at 11 p.m. on
Ventersdorp, where some Boers were reported. After marching all night and covering some twelve
miles, the enemy opened fire in front and on both flanks. Our guns came into action, and a
sort of running fight was maintained. Eventually the enemy took up a more definite position,
when General Hart ordered Colonel Hicks, with two companies of the regiment, two guns and a
pompom, to advance to a small ridge on one flank, while he with the remainder of the force
marched round the enemy's rear. This resulted in the evacuation of their position, when Colonel
Hicks's small party got an opportunity to deliver an effective fire on them.

         [Footnote 15: Half-battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers, one
         company Somerset Light Infantry, two guns 28th Battery Royal
         Field Artillery, and twenty Marshall's Horse.]

Next day sniping at the bivouac began at dawn, but the troops were allowed a meal before resuming
their march. Colonel Hicks was again detailed to take a kopje from which a considerable but
ineffectual fire was coming. Moving steadily on, with his 200 men in widely-extended order,
he brought a maxim into action, which had the effect of clearing the hill, but the long-range
fighting went on without a break till the evening.

Having more or less broken up the Boers in this direction, orders were issued for the return
march to Frederickstadt. An early start was made, and at 10 a.m. a halt and outspan ordered.
At mid-day the officers commanding units were sent for, when the General informed them that
a large force of Boers, under Steyn and De Wet, with women and children, 3000 strong, was reported
in the neighbourhood of Klerksdorp. Rumour further said that they were so bewildered by our
apparently aimless midnight movements that they neither knew where to go nor what to do. The
General added that it was his intention to march again in the afternoon in their direction,
to have another outspan at dusk, and then to march all night and surprise them next morning.
The commanding officers looked at one another in blank amazement, for they knew better than
the General could the effect these constant nights without sleep and days of fighting without
food were having on their men, but there was nothing for it, and the General called upon his
troops for one more supreme effort. At the same time he heliographed to Major Bird to march
from Frederickstadt and join him en route, which was done.

Major Bird's force had not been left altogether unmolested during this time. The company of
Somersetshire Light Infantry were holding a small knoll in prolongation of his left, and some
2000 yards off. Against them the Boers brought up their Krupp gun which they had used against
us two or three days before. The range was considerable, but they managed to reach their target;
yet, though they fired twenty-three shells into the camp of this company, the only damage they
did was to knock the top off a box of eggs without breaking a single egg. They also managed
to pitch a shell or two amongst the transport. Our fifteen-pounders endeavoured to reply, but,
in spite of digging deep holes for the trails, were unable to reach the ridge from which the
Boers were firing.

Major Bird's force having joined hands with the main column shortly after dark, the long march
was resumed at 10 p.m. It was a pitch-dark night, and the difficulty of keeping in touch, and
the still greater difficulty of keeping the transport in touch, wore out tempers as well as
sinews. On one occasion the regiment as nearly as possible got left. We were following the
first-line transport of the corps immediately in front of us, and keeping close up to it, but
the Colonel got anxious, and, after several times asking the adjutant if he was certain we
were in touch, told him to ride on and see. He came back in a few minutes to say that there
was nothing to be seen ahead. The carts in front had lost touch, and they were all we had to
guide us. The adjutant at once cantered on, and had the good fortune to shortly pick up the
tail of the column, when everything was soon all right again. The march continued the whole
night, dawn being heralded by the corncrake-like note of the pompom, which led us to hope we
had effected our object. But once again it was not to be, for the Boer laager had moved off,
and from the top of a small hill could be seen trekking away about 7000 yards distant. Men
and horses had been at it since 6 a.m. the day before, and any further pursuit was out of the
question. Indeed, an extra two or three miles that had to be done to reach a better camping-ground
almost proved the last straw. The right half-battalion had marched thirty-three miles in the
twenty-four hours, and only slept on one night out of the last three, while the left half-battalion
had done twenty-six miles in eighteen hours.

Our enemy had slipped away once more at the critical moment, but our spirits were raised all
the same by the arrival of a dispatch, which we understood called us back to Krugersdorp and
hinted that the war was over.

After a day's rest at this rather pleasant camp, the force moved into Pochefstroom (eighteen
miles), and marched past the General in the Market Square on the 25th, remaining there until
the 27th. It had been on the move for nearly a month with very little rest, during which time
men and horses had undoubtedly got very wiry and fit. But beyond collecting a certain amount
of stores, cattle, and forage, it is doubtful whether all the forced marches and strenuous
exertions had been of much benefit, or whether they served to bring hostilities much nearer
to a conclusion. Although the enemy, in more or less force, had been viewed practically every
day, it had always been impossible to bring him to close quarters, and the policy of wearing
out infantrymen's hearts, tempers, constitutions, and boots in abortive pursuits of mounted
enemies was, and in the light of all that we now know still is, open to question, for a reference
to the Times history of the war shows that all our wanderings and meanderings are summed up
in very few sentences, the most pregnant of which is to the effect that word had gone out to
the Boer Commandoes not to interfere with us.

On the 27th the column started on its march back to Krugersdorp, and did the distance (sixty-two
miles) in four easy stages. It marched by the road south of the Gatsrand Hills, with the Losberg
on its right, and with the exception of one day (29th) without molestation from the enemy.
On that occasion they made a somewhat determined attack on the rearguard, attempting to cut
off some waggons, and the last few miles of the march took the shape of a running fight. The
General had ridden on ahead with the cavalry to our next camp, so Colonel Hicks sent back a
couple of guns to the rearguard, who shook off the terrier-like attentions of the enemy without
very much trouble; but they had delayed the march a good deal, and it was not till late in
the evening that every one got in, and heard that the war really was over at last. An officer
in the regiment who was considerably exhausted sank on to his valise, too tired to care for
anything. His servant said to him, 'We'll be in Krugersdorp to-morrow, sorr, and I'll be able
to get yiz some claning matherials,' to which his weary master replied, 'I don't care a damn
whether I'm clean or whether I'm dirty.' In answer his man made the following cryptic remark:
''Tis no use talking like that, sorr. Lord Roberts says the war is over, and we'll begin soldiering
now.'

The following summary of the work done was published for information:--

'SUMMARY OF WORK OF POCHEFSTROOM COLUMN.

'The Pochefstroom column started from Krugersdorp on the 29th August, and returned on 30th
September. The task of the column is to assist in stamping out the resistance of the remaining
scattered forces of the enemy by hunting them, and depriving them of their supplies of food
and transport, with a view to bringing the war to an end. In the first cruise of 33 days the
column has marched 310 miles--the length of England from Portsmouth to Scotland--and was in
action with the enemy on 29 days, putting them to flight on each occasion. The column's casualties
were only 3 killed, 24 wounded, and 3 missing. The Boers lost considerably according to accounts
of Kaffirs present; we found some of their dead, including General Theron. In prisoners of
war and important arrests, the column took 96 of the enemy. Loyal inhabitants, numbering 316
men, women, and children, were rescued from Pochefstroom, and safely conveyed to Wolverdiend.
General Liebenburg ordered General Douthwaite to attack this convoy, but Douthwaite thought
it dangerous, and was arrested by Liebenburg for suggesting that he, Liebenburg, "had better
do it himself." The convoy was not attacked. The column took from the enemy the following cattle:
2720 sheep and 3281 goats; 1066 sacks of mealies, 104 sacks of meal, 2 waggon-loads of mealie
cobs, 12 sacks of wheat, 847 loaves of bread, 162 sacks of potatoes, 68 sacks of oats, 33 sacks
of bran, 36,000 bundles of oat-hay, 299 bales of chaff, 400 bundles of manna-hay, 90 horses,
28 ponies, 11 mules, 36 waggons, 31 carts, and destroyed 45 waggons and carts that could not
be taken away.

               '(Signed)               A. HART (Captain),
                                  'C.S.O. Pochefstroom Column.

  'Krugersdorp, 2nd October, 1900.'

  'We looked for peace, but no good came.'--Jer. viii. 15.

CHAPTER V.

FREDERICKSTADT--KLIP RIVER--THE LOSBERG.

Our camp, on this our third visit to Krugersdorp, was on the south-west side of the town. The
6th Brigade (General Barton's) was also in Krugersdorp, and had been for some time, so it was
with somewhat mixed feelings that we heard we were to set out on the trek once more almost
immediately. However, in the end the other brigade went out, with what result will presently
appear. Krugersdorp was now surrounded by a large circle of forts and fortified houses. The
perimeter of these defences was very large, not far short of twelve miles, but the positions
themselves were well selected from a tactical point of view. As they were continually being
strengthened, improved, and added to, in a few months' time it would have been very difficult
for the Boers to have taken the place, provided a sufficient garrison remained in it. But this
strength, or sometimes weakness, was a constantly varying one--about the middle of December
sinking as low as 300--which of course was risking a good deal. Moreover, it was not until
some time later, when the Officer Commanding Town Guards devised an inner series of defences,
that the town could be said to be in any way safe from a midnight raid; and it was this, more
than even the capture of the place, which seemed so likely to occur, when the banks and stores
could have been cleared out in a few minutes, and the raiding party gone before any force could
have been assembled to interfere with it. The town was, of course, full of spies and friendly
enemies, ever on the look-out for any chance of getting a bit of their own back--and who could
blame them?--but on the whole remained very quiet and well-behaved throughout the occupation.

The regiment's headquarters were destined to remain here for the rest of the campaign, with
the exception of the three treks which form the subject of this chapter, and Krugersdorp will
ever be identified with our name in South Africa in consequence. As we got to know its inhabitants
better, and as they got to appreciate our men better, a kindlier feeling was generated on both
sides, with which improved state of affairs the cricket and football we played with them had
not a little to do.

General Barton moved off on October 5th, with much the same commission that General Hart had
carried, and immediately came into contact with the enemy, the noise of the fight sounding
loud in our ears, while from Captain Nelson's piquet the bursting shells and even some of the
Boers could be plainly seen. The day before a flag of truce had come in with a letter, saying
that one of our men was lying wounded in a farmhouse a little way outside the outposts; a waggon
was sent out and brought him in, when he proved to be one of our mounted infantry, who had
been wounded in Colonel Rochfort's dashing attack on a Boer laager near Pretoria.[16] The Boers
had looked after him as well as they could, and dressed his wounds according to their homely
lights, and altogether played the game so far as he was concerned.

         [Footnote 16: The writer was recently dining with
         Colonel--now Major-General--Rochfort, when that officer
         particularly asked him to mention how splendidly the party of
         Dublin Fusiliers under his command had behaved on this
         occasion, and his admiration of their soldierly conduct at
         all times while serving under him.]

Next day still brought the sound of General Barton's artillery, and the right half-battalion
under Major Bird went out as escort to two waggon-loads of ammunition for him. The General
sent half-way to meet him, and our men got back all right about 6 p.m.

With the advent of summer the thunderstorms increased in frequency and severity, and it was
no joke to have to suddenly jump up and hang on to the pole of one's tent to prevent it being
blown away, with the uncomfortable knowledge that lightning has a partiality for running down
tent-poles. We had one really bad experience in this way, to be narrated later, but nothing
to touch the blizzard that struck the camp of the 5th Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers near
Mafeking, when sheets of corrugated iron flew about like packs of gigantic cards, and Colonel
Gernon and Captain Baker, the Quartermaster, together with many others, sustained very serious
injuries. Still, our share was bad enough, and quite spoiled the summer for a good many of
us. The mornings would break clear, cloudless, and invigorating; but about 3 p.m. on about
three days of the week, a bunch of cotton-wool clouds would appear from the south. As these
rose higher and higher, they swelled into enormous piles of grand, rolling cloud-masses, like
stupendous snow-clad mountains, whose bases grew black and ever blacker, until they would suddenly
be riven by blinding flashes of flickering ribbons of lightning, and the air torn and rent
by reverberating booms of awe-inspiring thunder.

Second Lieutenant Tredennick joined at this time. Second Lieutenant R. F. B. Knox should have
arrived with him, but had to remain behind in Johannesburg, as he was seedy. The train they
were in had been attacked by Boers near Heidelberg.

Rumour now began to be busy with General Barton's force, and on the 22nd an order came for
General Hart to join him. We had just packed up, when an order came countermanding the move.

Next day, however, another order came to the same effect, but detailing Colonel Hicks to command
the column. Though small in point of numbers,[17] it would have been hard to have picked a
better one in point of quality. A finer body of horsemen, or one more adapted to the work in
hand, than Strathcona's Horse it would be impossible to conceive. Without making any invidious
comparisons, it is only just to say that these Canadian troops appeared to us to have no superiors,
while the truly magnificent way in which they literally brushed away the opposition, on the
morning we joined hands with General Barton, was a sight to be remembered.

         [Footnote 17: 600 Strathcona's Horse, 160 Brabant's Horse, 2
         Elswick guns, 1 pompom, Essex Regiment, 1/2-battalion Royal
         Dublin Fusiliers.]

The regiment was entrained, but did not get off till about 5 p.m., our departure being marked
by a peal of thunder which made even those who declared themselves fond of such phenomena nearly
jump through the roof of the guard's van. We only got as far as Bank Station, as the line was
reported infested with the enemy, and it was important that we should not be blown up. Indeed,
we had scarcely arrived there, when a loud explosion--fortunately behind us--proved the activity
of our watchful foes. After making teas we bivouacked in the train.

The regiment reached Wolverdiend next day, in the course of which the remainder of the force
assembled, preparations being made for an early start next morning.

Fearing that information would get through, the Colonel gave orders that the column would start
at 6 a.m., but at the same time issued confidential orders to officers commanding units that
he really intended to start at 3.30 a.m. Unfortunately, however, it rained so hard all night
that it was impossible to start until 5 a.m. Colonel Hicks sent Strathcona's Horse out to the
front and left flank, while Brabant's Horse took the right flank and front. The Essex Regiment
supplied the advance-guard, while one company of the Dublin Fusiliers acted as rearguard and
escort to the waggons. In this order the force approached a low line of bush-covered hills,
which separated them from General Barton. These hills were occupied by two or three hundred
Boers, who had been detailed to check our advance. On arrival within rifle-range of the hills,
Strathcona's Horse made a dash right at them, the effect of which was so imposing that the
enemy immediately resigned all idea of resistance, and bolted as hard as they could go. With
this range of kopjes in our possession, the rest was plain sailing, and we marched on to the
hill on which the larger part of General Barton's force was posted. The column had barely arrived
when a fierce rifle-fire broke out in front. It was impossible to see what was going on, as
the hillside was covered with thick mimosa bush, but that a fierce fight was raging in our
close proximity was very evident from the prolonged and heavy fire, in which the pompoms soon
began to take part, while the naval gun and smaller field-pieces joined in. Colonel Hicks,
accompanied by an officer of the Dublin Fusiliers, then climbed some little way up the hill
in the direction of the 4·7, and there a sight met their eyes which was seldom seen in this
war. The plain at their feet, stretching from the railway west to the village of Frederickstadt,
was covered with flying Boers--Boers flying on their feet, a most unusual occurrence with them.
As they fled across the open veld in full view, they were pursued by every variety of missile.
In one spot, seven Boers were running side by side. The officer with Colonel Hicks had just
drawn his attention to them, when a shell from the naval gun burst in the air behind them,
and a second later tore up the ground all round. Five fell at once; the other two staggered
on a few paces and then fell also, all seven being afterwards found stone-dead. It was all
over in a very short time, and then the stretcher-bearers began to come in with their patient,
gruesome burdens, and the prisoners arrived under escort, to be handed over to the Royal Dublin
Fusiliers for safe custody.

Then we heard the story of the fight. General Barton's position, which he had occupied for
some days, extended along a line of low hills, the two main features of which were divided
by a valley running back at right angles to the railway into the Gatsrand, the general line
of the position being parallel with the railway. The station was held and used as a hospital,
while the hill on which General Barton's camp was situated extended down to the railway, and
was the nearest point to the river. For some days the Boers, under De Wet, had been gathering
round this position, and the force had been subjected to a constant shell-fire and the intermittent
attentions of a particularly aggressive and unlocatable pompom. Under the railway, about midway
between General Barton's two main positions, ran a small, dry donga. Into this underfeature
De Wet had ordered about 200 men on the night of the 24th-25th. The first indication of their
presence was a somewhat foolish attempt made by them to capture some mules. Unaware of their
numbers--and truly the situation was such that any one could be pardoned for not grasping it
at once--a company or part of a company was sent forward to dislodge them and clear up matters.
The Boers allowed them to approach quite close, and then annihilated them. It was now very
evident that the donga was held in force, and, as the General was aware by this time of the
arrival of Colonel Hicks' column, he launched a vigorous attack. This was the heavy firing
we heard on our arrival. After offering a slight resistance, some of the enemy surrendered,
the remainder flying on foot as already stated to their horses, which they had left amongst
the trees near the river. It is not often the Boer leaves his horse thus, and it offered strong
presumptive evidence of their confidence in their ability to rush the position, in accordance
with De Wet's intention.

The battalion bivouacked on the hill, and threw out outposts. To them was also assigned next
morning the intensely unpleasant duty of shooting three prisoners who had been tried and found
guilty of showing the white flag and afterwards resuming their fire. 'G' company, being the
nearest piquet to the place selected for the execution, was detailed to carry it out. The casualties
on our side had been about forty-one killed and wounded, while twenty-four Boers were killed,
sixteen wounded, and twenty-six taken prisoner.

After remaining at Frederickstadt on the 26th, orders came for our return to Krugersdorp on
the 27th. We had an uneventful march to Wolverdiend, and there entrained, reaching our destination
late in the evening. The officers, as usual, rode in the guard's van, and, as these trains
used to bump and jolt in the most unpleasant manner, we made ourselves as comfortable as we
could in a sort of 'zariba' composed of our valises and a number of large packages sewn up
in sackcloth. Our feelings when we later on discovered that these packages were corpses may
be left to the imagination.

We returned to our last camp, and set to work to make it more comfortable, running up wood
and corrugated-iron shelters for stores, officers' mess, &c. We were also kept perpetually
busy in building more forts and improving those already in existence. Captain Romer gave his
name to a work which he erected and on which he expended much time, pains, and ingenuity. Posts
and piquets also had to be held on all the principal roads into the town. Captain Nelson, R.M.L.I.,
in command of one of these, one afternoon shouted to two men who were driving through his posts
to stop. Unfortunately for them, they paid no attention and drove on, so he seized a rifle
and fired, killing one of the occupants stone-dead, an exemplary lesson to the inhabitants
to make them understand that outposts were not posted for amusement.

General Clements' column was now stationed at Krugersdorp, and we saw something of Captain
MacBean, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, his Brigade-Major. Alas! poor MacBean; he was killed a few
days later, standing close beside his General, at the battle of Nooitgedacht. A universal favourite,
and one of the most popular officers in the regiment, he was also probably the ablest. Passing
brilliantly into and through the Staff College, he went on to the Egyptian Army, taking part
in all the principal actions up to and including the battle of Omdurman, receiving a D.S.O.
in recognition of his services. In the present campaign he had commenced the war as a Brigade-Major,
later on serving on General Hunter's staff, and now transferred to General Clements', who had
the highest opinion of his capabilities. Amongst many other accomplishments he was one of the
best bridge-players in the service. There is little doubt that if he had been spared he would
have risen to the highest rank. He was gazetted to a Brevet-Majority after his death.

On November 15th Lord Roberts inspected the regiment, and congratulated them on the work they
had done, afterwards speaking to Major English and telling him how highly he had thought of
the Zuikerbosch affair. It is these little acts of kindness and remembrance that make all the
difference, and their effect is much more far-reaching than those who confer them often imagine.
One only does one's duty, of course, but yet one is only human, and it is very pleasant to
feel that that duty has been appreciated.

Captain Lowndes, the adjutant, who had been home after his severe wound at Talana, now rejoined
the regiment, and took over the adjutancy from Captain Fetherstonhaugh. That officer had filled
the post with marked zeal and ability for over twelve months, and was the only officer who
was present with the Headquarters of the battalion from the start of the war without being wounded.

On November 16th the regiment formed part of a column,[18] ordered to march off and scour the
veld, though our destination was, as usual, shrouded in mystery. The night of the 15th-16th
however, precluded any possibility of carrying out the intended early start, as the rain descended
in torrents, deluging kits and country. At about 2 p.m., however, a start was effected, and
all went well till a small drift was reached, when the 'cow-gun,' which had taken the place
of our old and tried friend, the Naval gun, stuck hopelessly. Colonel Hicks fell out 120 men
and put them on to the drag-ropes. Their first pull was too much for the rope, which broke,
with the inevitable result that the whole 120 were deposited on the veld, on the broad of their
backs. Another and a stouter rope was produced, which proved itself equal to the strain, and
with a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull all together, the heavy weapon was dragged on to
terra firma, and the march resumed, a halt being made for the night about eight or nine miles
out, and almost on the historic site of Doornkop.

         [Footnote 18: South Wales Borderers, Royal Dublin Fusiliers,
         28th Battery, R.F.A., 4·7 inch gun, mounted details.]

The trek was resumed next morning under more favourable auspices, but these soon proved a delusion
and a snare. The column was making for a pass in the Gatsrand, not far from the waterworks,
known to be in the enemy's occupation, when at about 11 o'clock a violent thunderstorm broke
directly overhead. Marching along, soaked to the skin, with a lightning-conductor in the shape
of a rifle over one's shoulder, was not conducive to steady nerves, but so dense was the rain
that it had, at all events, one beneficial effect, for the Boers holding the pass left their
positions and took shelter in some farmhouses, with the result that they were very nearly captured
by our cavalry, who, indeed, succeeded in taking possession of the pass without opposition,
the enemy, taken completely by surprise, having only just time to jump on their horses and
gallop off. Getting the 'cow-gun' over the pass, however, was no easy matter, but it was eventually
accomplished, and after a march of about sixteen miles, the force halted for the night in rather
a pretty camp, on a farm known as Hartebeestfontein.

The column marched to Klip River, about seventeen miles, next day, arriving there about 5 p.m.
The rearguard was sniped at the whole way by our friends of the day before, but without effecting
much damage. A cavalry brigade under Brigadier-General Gordon was here on our arrival, and
an exchange of troops took place, we receiving some Greys and Carabineers in exchange for half
a battalion of South Wales Borderers.

A halt was now made for a day, most of us taking the opportunity to get a bathe in the river.

Leaving Klip River on the morning of the 20th, we marched back in the direction whence we had
come two days before, and were soon engaged with the enemy's snipers, of whom we captured one;
but they had the best of the argument, as they killed two of our column. One of these poor
fellows had very bad luck: he had received a letter at Klip River only the day before, telling
him he had come into a sum of money, sufficient to enable him to retire and spend the remainder
of his days in peace and quiet.

Nor was the day to prove uneventful for the rest of us. About 1 p.m. it began to cloud over,
and presently to rain; this soon turned into hail, of the variety which one is accustomed to
at home. This was at first refreshing, and one would pick up the cool hailstones--they were
about as big as peas--and eat them, and the rattle they made on the helmets was quite musical.
When they grew to the size of gooseberries, and began to sting, they provided less amusement,
shoulders being shrugged up and necks arched to obtain as much protection as possible. The
unfortunate dogs, of which a variety invariably turned up with every column, howled with pain,
and the cattle and horses grew very restive. But soon the stones, driven by a gale of wind,
increased to the size of cherries and strawberries, with occasional jagged lumps of ice an
inch in diameter. As there seemed no particular reason why they should not run through the
whole gamut of the orchard, and rival plums, peaches, and melons, and as there was no earthly
chance of obtaining a vestige of shelter of any kind, men began to wonder what was going to
happen next, with an occasional sharper-than-usual belt between the shoulders or on the boot
to quicken their fancy. It was only with the greatest difficulty that the horses were controlled,
but the stones providentially grew no larger, though the storm continued. The entire country-side
was a rolling mass of ice nearly over the tops of boots. Runnels and rivulets became roaring
torrents, roads became rivers. When the storm eventually subsided the transport of course could
not go another yard, and camp was pitched where we were. The carpet of hailstones in the tents
slowly melted into mud, and we made ourselves as comfortable as possible under the circumstances.
Several kids and lambs we had with us were killed by the stones. Not one of us had ever been
out in such a storm before, but, as those who had not been on 'the Natal side' confidently
predicted, those who had been declared that this was mere child's play to the hailstones they
had seen there.

What became of the Boers we never knew: up to the commencement of the storm we had been merrily
sniping away at each other at extreme ranges, but during and after it they entirely disappeared,
so entirely that even next day we never got a sign of them, and concluded they had all been
drowned.

There was, however, nothing to complain of on this score the day after, as sniping was carried
on all the time. Though this form of fighting resulted in few casualties, it was destructive
to peace and comfort and enjoyment of the scenery. It was interesting to notice what officers
recognised when we arrived at places we had visited on previous treks, and instructive to note
that it was almost always those who were addicted to sport and field-pursuits who were the
first to pick up their bearings and the lie of the land. The force eventually encamped at the
foot of the hill on which 'G' company had spent such a cold and miserable night when waiting
for the transport to pass, two months before.

On the 23rd, the march took us up again through Orange Grove and on past Leeuwport Nek, moving
along the south side of the main ridge of the Gatsrand, with three companies making the best
of their way along their jagged peaks. Two of Roberts' Horse were hit on this march, one being
killed.

The column reached Buffelsdoorn Pass on the 24th, after a spirited rearguard action, the brunt
of which fell on the South Wales Borderers, who had several men and one officer hit. We remained
in this pass for some days, sending out small expeditions among the adjacent hills, and erecting
fortifications to cover the defile. It was in its way an important place, being within a few
miles of Wolverdiend Station, and providing an excellent door through the rocky, serrated peaks
of the Gatsrand into the broad plain which lay between them and the Vaal. Our camp was situated
just on the north side of the pass, in a picturesque place, with easy access to the railway,
and from a tactical point of view an excellent position.

Next day a convoy with nearly ten thousand cattle, sheep, &c., was dispatched to Wolverdiend,
without seeing any signs of the enemy.

The night of the 25th-26th could scarcely have been worse; heavy rain, howling wind, and vivid
and frequent lightning with its sonorous accompaniment, put sleep out of the question; indeed,
at one period it became necessary to get up and hold on to the tents to prevent them being
blown away. With the advent of dawn the forces of nature gave us a rest, our friends the enemy
immediately filling their place. They opened fire from some kopjes to the east of the camp,
and endeavoured to round up some of our cattle. The South Wales Borderers undertook to dislodge
them, and speedily did so, the 'Cow-gun' joining in at long range as soon as the Boers evacuated
their positions. Having disposed of man for the time being, Nature again rolled up in dense
masses of magnificent clouds to the attack. The storm which followed was also one to be remembered;
the lightning could be seen striking the ground in the close vicinity of the camp, and though
no one was hit, we heard that two men of the regiment at Kaalfontein were not so fortunate,
one poor fellow being killed and the other severely wounded. 'C' company, 2nd Royal Dublin
Fusiliers, was on piquet through both these night and day storms, and had, as may be imagined,
an unenviable experience.

On the 27th, General Hart rode down to Wolverdiend to see Sir John French. While he was away,
word arrived that a party of Roberts' Horse who were out scouting had been held up. Colonel
Wilson--the senior officer in camp--detailed 100 Carabineers to go to their assistance, but
they found the opposition still too great, so two companies of the regiment were sent out to
reinforce them, while the guns opened fire from the summits of the hills. In the middle of
the operations a thunderstorm joined in to swell the general din, under cover of which the
Boers crept in round three sides of the force. There was never any question of their succeeding
in cutting it off, but the boldness of their tactics was characteristic of the phase the war
had now begun to assume. There was a good deal of rifle-fire on both sides, and the 28th Battery
R.F.A., under its new commander, who had replaced our esteemed friend, Major Stokes, D.S.O.,
promoted to R.H.A., fired nearly one hundred rounds. What casualties the enemy suffered was
not ascertained, but on our side there was only one, a man in Roberts' Horse being badly hit.
Those of us who were not engaged sat among the rocks on the tops of the hills, whence a fine
panoramic view of the skirmish was obtainable by the aid of telescopes and binoculars.

The 28th and 29th passed uneventfully, Captain Romer occupying the time in again demonstrating
his architectural capabilities in the erection of a fort near the pass.

