HALF-HOURS

WITH

GREAT STORY TELLERS.

ARTEMUS WARD, GEORGE MACDONALD, MAX ADELER, SAMUEL LOVER, AND OTHERS.

1891

CONTENTS.

GREY DOLPHIN Richard Harris Barham

MOSES, THE SASSY Artemus Ward

MR. COLUMBUS CORIANDER'S GORILLA

THE FATE OF YOUNG CHUBB Max Adeler

BOOTS AT THE HOLLY-TREE INN Charles Dickens

THE ENTHUSIAST IN ANATOMY John Oxenford

"THE LIGHT PRINCESS" George Macdonald

LEGEND OF THE LITTLE WEAVER Samuel Lover

GREY DOLPHIN.

"He won't--won't he? Then bring me my boots," said the Baron.

Consternation was at its height in the castle of Shurland--a catiff had dared to disobey the
Baron; and--the Baron had called for his boots!

A thunderbolt in the great hall had been a bagatelle to it.

A few days before, a notable miracle had been wrought in the neighborhood; and in those times
miracles were not so common as they are now; no royal balloons, no steam, no railroads,--while
the few saints who took the trouble to walk with their heads under their arms, or to pull the
Devil by the nose, scarcely appeared above once in a century:--so the affair made the greatest
sensation.

The clock had done striking twelve, and the Clerk of Chatham was untrussing his points preparatory
to seeking his truckle-bed; a half- emptied tankard of mild ale stood at his elbow, the roasted
crab yet floating on its surface. Midnight had surprised the worthy functionary while occupied
in discussing it, and with his task yet unaccomplished. He meditated a mighty draft: one hand
was fumbling with his tags, while the other was extended in the act of grasping the jorum,
when a knock on the portal, solemn and sonorous, arrested his fingers. It was repeated thrice
ere Emmanuel Saddleton had presence of mind sufficient to inquire who sought admittance at
that untimeous hour.

"Open! open! good Clerk of St. Bridget's," said a female voice, small yet distinct and sweet,--an
excellent thing in woman.

The Clerk arose, crossed to the doorway, and undid the latchet.

On the threshold stood a lady of surpassing beauty: her robes were rich, and large, and full;
and a diadem, sparkling with gems that shed a halo around, crowned her brow: she beckoned the
Clerk as he stood in astonishment before her.

"Emmanuel!" said the lady; and her tones sounded like those of a silver flute. "Emmanuel Saddleton,
truss up your points, and follow me!"

The worthy Clerk stated aghast at the vision; the purple robe, the cymar, the coronet,--above
all, the smile; no, there was no mistaking her; it was the blessed St. Bridget herself!

And what could have brought the sainted lady out of her warm shrine at such a time of night?
and on such a night? for it was dark as pitch, and metaphorically speaking, 'rained cats and dogs.'

Emmanuel could not speak, so he looked the question.

"No matter for that," said the saint, answering to his thought. "No matter for that, Emmanuel
Saddleton; only follow me, and you'll see!"

The Clerk turned a wistful eye at the corner cupboard.

"Oh! never mind the lantern, Emmanuel; you'll not want it; but you may bring a mattock and
a shovel." As she spoke, the beautiful apparition held up her delicate hand. From the tip of
each of her long taper fingers issued a lambent flame of such surpassing brilliancy as would
have plunged a whole gas company into despair--it was a 'Hand of Glory,' [Footnote: One of
the uses to which this mystic chandelier was put, was the protection of secreted treasure.
Blow out all the fingers at one puff, and you had the money.] such a one as tradition tells
us yet burns in Rochester Castle every St. Mark's Eve. Many are the daring individuals who
have watched in Gundulph's Tower, hoping to find it, and the treasure it guards; but none of
them ever did.

"This way, Emmanuel!" and a flame of peculiar radiance streamed from her little finger as it
pointed to the pathway leading to the churchyard.

Saddleton shouldered his tools and followed in silence.

The cemetery of St. Bridget's was some half-mile distant from the Clerk's domicile, and adjoined
a chapel dedicated to that illustrious lady, who, after leading but a so-so life, had died
in the odor of sanctity. Emmanuel Saddleton was fat and scant of breath, the mattock was heavy,
and the Saint walked too fast for him: he paused to take second wind at the end of the first
furlong.

"Emmanuel," said the holy lady, good-humoredly, for she heard him puffing: "rest awhile Emmanuel,
and I'll tell you what I want with you."

Her auditor wiped his brow with the back of his hand, and looked all attention and obedience.

"Emmanuel," continued she "what did you and Father Fothergill, and the rest of you, mean yesterday
by burying that drowned man so close to me? He died in mortal sin, Emmanuel; no shrift, no
unction, no absolution: why he might as well have been excommunicated. He plagues me with his
grinning, and I can't have any peace in my shrine. You must howk him up again, Emmanuel."

"To be sure, madame,--my lady,--that is, your holiness," stammered Saddleton, trembling at
the thought of the task assigned him. "To be sure, your ladyship; only--that is--"

"Emmanuel," said the saint, "you'll do my bidding; or it would be better you had!" and her
eye changed from a dove's eye to that of a hawk, and a flash came from it as bright as the
one from her little finger. The Clerk shook in his shoes; and, again dashing the cold perspiration
from his brow, followed the footsteps of his mysterious guide.

The next morning all Chatham was in an uproar. The Clerk of St. Bridget's had found himself
at home at daybreak, seated in his own armchair, the fire out,--and--the tankard of ale out
too! Who had drunk it?--where had he been?--how had he got home?--all was mystery!--he remembered
"a mass of things, but nothing distinctly;" all was fog and fantasy. What he could clearly
recollect was, that he had dug up the Grinning Sailor, and that the Saint had helped to throw
him into the river again. All was thenceforth wonderment and devotion. Masses were sung, tapers
were kindled, bells were tolled; the monks of St. Romuald had a solemn procession, the abbot
at their head, the sacristan at their tail, and the holy breeches of St. Thomas a Becket in
the centre; --Father Fothergill brewed a XXX puncheon of holy water. The Rood of Gillingham
was deserted; the chapel of Rainham forsaken; every one who had a soul to be saved, flocked
with his offering to St. Bridget's shrine, and Emmanual Saddleton gathered more fees from the
promiscuous piety of that one week, than he had pocketed during the twelve preceding months.

Meanwhile, the corpse of the ejected reprobate oscillated like a pendulum between Sheerness
and Gillingham Reach. Now borne by the Medway into the Western Swale,--now carried by the refluent
tide back to the vicinity of its old quarters,--it seemed as though the River god and Neptune
were amusing themselves with a game of subaqueous battledore, and had chosen this unfortunate
carcass as a marine shuttlecock. For some time the alternation was kept up with great spirit,
till Boreas, interfering in the shape of a stiffish "Nor'- wester," drifted the bone (and flesh)
of contention ashore on the Shurland domain, where it lay in all the majesty of mud. It was
soon discovered by the retainers, and dragged from its oozy bed, grinning worse than ever.
Tidings of the godsend were of course carried instantly to the castle; for the Baron was a
very great man; and if a dun cow had flown across his property unannounced by the warder, the
Baron would have pecked him, the said warder, from the topmost battlement into the bottommost
ditch,--a descent of peril, and one which "Ludwig the Leaper," or the illustrious Trenck himself,
might well have shrunk from encountering.

"An't please your lordship--" said Peter Periwinkle.

"No, villain! it does not please!" roared the Baron.

His lordship was deeply engaged with a peck of Faversham oysters,--he doted on shellfish, hated
interruption at meals, and had not yet despatched more than twenty dozen of the "natives."

"There's a body, my lord, washed ashore in the lower creek," said the seneschal.

The Baron was going to throw the shells at his head; but paused in the act, and said with much
dignity,

"Turn out the fellow's pockets!"

But the defunct had before been subjected to the double scrutiny of Father Fothergill and the
Clerk of St. Bridget's. It was ill gleaning after such hands; there was not a single maravedi.

We have already said that Sir Robert de Shurland, Lord of the Isle of Sheppey, and of many
a fair manor on the main land, was a man of worship. He had rights of free-warren, saccage
and sockage, cuisage and jambage, fosse and fork, infang theofe and outfang theofe; and all
waifs and strays belonged to him in fee simple.

"Turn out his pockets!" said the knight.

"An't please you, my lord, I must say as how they was turned afore, and the devil a rap's left."

"Then bury the blackguard!"

"Please your lordship, he had been buried once."

"Then bury him again, and be--" The Baron bestowed a benediction.

The seneschal bowed low as he left the room and the Baron went on with his oysters.

"Scarcely ten dozen more had vanished, when Periwinkle reappeared.

"An't please you, my lord, Father Fothergill says as how it's the Grinning Sailor, and he won't
bury him anyhow."

"Oh! he won't--won't he?" said the Baron. Can it be wondered at that he called for his boots?

Sir Robert de Shurland, Lord of Shurland and Minster, Baron of Sheppey in comitatu Kent, was,
as has been before hinted, a very great man. He was also a very little man; that is, he was
relatively great, and relatively little--or physically little, and metaphorically great-- like
Sir Sidney Smith and the late Mr. Buonaparte. To the frame of a dwarf, he united the soul of
a giant, and the valor of a gamecock. Then, for so small a man, his strength was prodigious;
his fist would fell an ox, and his kick!--oh! his kick was tremendous, and, when he had his
boots on, would--to use an expression of his own, which he had picked up in the holy wars--would
"send a man from Jericho to June." He was bull-necked and bandy-legged; his chest was broad
and deep, his head large and uncommonly thick, his eyes a little bloodshot, and his nose retrousse
with a remarkably red tip. Strictly speaking, the Baron could not be called handsome; but his
tout ensemble was singularly impressive; and when he called for his boots, everybody trembled
and dreaded the worst.

"Periwinkle," said the Baron, as he encased his better leg, "let the grave be twenty feet deep!"

"Your lordship's command is law."

"And, Perwinkle"--Sir Robert stamped his left heel into it's receptacle--"and, Periwinkle,
see that it be wide enough to hold not exceeding two!"

"Ye--ye--yes, my lord."

"And, Periwinkle--tell Father Fothergill I would fain speak with his Reverence."

"Ye--ye--yes, my lord."

The Baron's beard was peaked; and his mustache, stiff and stumpy, projected horizontally like
those of a Tom Cat; he twirled the one, he stroked the other, he drew the buckle of his surcingle
a thought tighter, and strode down the great staircase three steps at a stride.

The vassals were assembled in the great hall of Shurland Castle; every cheek was pale, every
tongue was mute, expectation and perplexity were visible on every brow. What would his lordship
do? Were the recusant anybody else, gyves to the heels and hemp to the throat were but too
good for him; but it was Father Fothergill who had said "I won't;" and though the Baron was
a very great man, the Pope was a greater, and the Pope was Father Fothergill's great friend--some
people said he was his uncle.

Father Fothergill was busy in the refectory trying conclusions with a venison pasty, when he
received the summons of his patron to attend him in the chapel cemetery. Of course he lost
no time in obeying it, for obedience was the general rule in Shurland Castle. If anybody ever
said "I won't" it was the exception; and, like all other exceptions, only proved the rule the
stronger. The Father was a friar of the Augustine persuasion; a brotherhood which, having been
planted in Kent some few centuries earlier, had taken very kindly to the soil, and overspread
the county much as hops did some few centuries later. He was plump and portly, a little thick-winded,
especially after dinner, stood five feet four in his sandals, and weighed hard upon eighteen
stone. He was, moreover, a personage of singular piety; and the iron girdle, which, he said,
he wore under his cassock to mortify withal, might have been well mistaken for the tire of
a cart-wheel. When he arrived, Sir Robert was pacing up and down by the side of a newly opened
grave.

"Benedecite! fair son"--(the Baron was brown as a cigar)-- "Benedecite!" said the Chaplain.

The Baron was too angry to stand upon compliment. "Bury me that grinning caitiff there!" he,
pointing to the defunct.

"It may not be, fair son," said the friar, "he hath perished without absolution."

"Bury the body!" roared Sir Robert.

"Water and earth alike reject him," returned the Chaplain; "holy St. Bridget herself--"

"Bridget me no Bridgets!--do me thine office quickly, Sir Shaveling! or by the Piper that played
before Moses--" The oath was a fearful one; and whenever the Baron swore to do mischief, he
was never known to perjure himself. He was playing with the hilt of his sword. "Do me thine
office, I say. Give him his passport to heaven."

"He is already gone to Hell!" stammered the Friar.

"Then do you go after him!" thundered the Lord of Shurland.

His sword half leaped from its scabbard. No!--the trenchant blade, that had cut Suleiman Ben
Malek Ben Buckskin from helmet to chin, disdained to daub itself with the cerebellum of a miserable
monk;--it leaped back again;--and as the Chaplain, scared at its flash, turned him in terror,
the Baron gave him a kick!--one kick!--it was but one!--but such a one! Despite its obesity,
up flew his holy body in an angle of forty-five degrees; then having reached its highest point
of elevation, sunk headlong into the open grave that yawned to receive it. If the reverend
gentleman had possessed such a thing as a neck, he had infallibly broken it! as he did not,
he only dislocated his vertebrae--but that did quite as well. He was as dead as ditch-water!

"In with the other rascal!" said the baron--and he was obeyed; for there he stood in his boots.
Mattock and shovel made short work of it; twenty feet of superincumbent mould pressed down
alike the saint and the sinner. "Now sing a requiem who list!" said the Baron, and his lordship
went back to his oysters.

The vassals at Castle Shurland were astounded, or, as the Seneschal Hugh better expressed it,
"perfectly conglomerated," by this event. What! murder a monk in the odor of sanctity--and
on consecrated ground too! They trembled for the health of the Baron's soul. To the unsophisticated
many, it seemed that matters could not have been much worse had he shot a bishop's coach-horse--all
looked for some signal judgment. The melancholy catastrophe of their neighbors at Canterbury
was yet rife in their memories; no two centuries had elapsed since those miserable sinners
had cut off the tail of the blessed St. Thomas's mule. The tail of the mule, it was well known,
had been forthwith affixed to that of the Mayor; and rumor said it had since been hereditary
in the corporation. The least that could be expected was, that Sir Robert should have a friar
tacked on to his for the term of his natural life! Some bolder spirits there were, 'tis true,
who viewed the matter in various lights, according to their different temperaments and dispositions;
for perfect unanimity existed not even in the good old time. The verderer, roistering Hob Roebuck,
swore roundly, "'Twere as good a deed as to eat, to kick down the chapel as well as the monk."
Hob had stood there in a white sheet for kissing Giles Miller's daughter. On the other hand,
Simpkin Agnew, the bell- ringer, doubted if the devil's cellar, which runs under the bottomless
abyss, were quite deep enough for the delinquent, and speculated on the probability of a hole
being dug in it for his especial accommodation. The philosophers and economists thought, with
Saunders McBullock, the Baron's bagpiper, that a 'feckless monk more or less was nae great
subject for a clamjamphrey,' especially as 'the supply exceeded the demand;' while Malthouse,
the tapster, was arguing to Dame Martin that a murder now and then was a seasonable check to
population, without which the isle of Sheppey would in time be devoured, like a mouldy cheese,
by inhabitants of its own producing. Meanwhile the Baron ate his oysters and thought no more
of the matter.

But this tranquillity of his lordship was not to last. A couple of Saints had been seriously
offended; and we have all of us read at school that celestial minds are by no means insensible
to the provocations of anger. There were those who expected that St. Bridget would come in
person, and have the friar up again, as she did the sailor; but perhaps her ladyship did not
care to trust herself within the walls of Shurland Castle. To say the truth, it was scarcely
a decent house for a female saint to be seen in. The Baron's gallantries, since he became a
widower had been but too notorious; and her own reputation was a little blown upon in the earlier
days of her earthly pilgrimage; then things were so apt to be misrepresented--in short, she
would leave the whole affair to St. Austin, who being a gentleman, could interfere with propriety,
avenge her affront as well as his own, and leave no loop-hole for scandal. St. Austin himself
seems to have had his scruples, though of their precise nature it would be difficult to determine,
for it were idle to suppose him at all afraid of the Baron's boots. Be this as it may, the
mode which he adopted was at once prudent and efficacious. As an ecclesiastic, he could not
well call the Baron out--had his boots been out of the question; so he resolved to have recourse
to the law. Instead of Shurland Castle, therefore, he repaired forthwith to his own magnificent
monastery, situate just without the walls of Canterbury, and presented himself in a vision
to its abbot. No one who has ever visited that ancient city can fail to recollect the splendid
gateway which terminates the vista of St. Paul's street, and stands there yet in all its pristine
beauty. The tiny train of miniature artillery which now adorns its battlements is, it is true,
an ornament of a later date; and is said to have been added some centuries after by a learned
but jealous proprietor, for the purpose of shooting any wiser man than himself, who might chance
to come that way. Tradition is silent as to any discharge having taken place, nor can the oldest
inhabitant of modern days recollect any such occurrence. [Footnote: Since the appearance of
the first edition of this Legend "the guns" have been dismounted. Rumor hints at some alarm
on the part of the Town Council.] Here it was, in a handsome chamber, immediately over the
lofty archway, that the Superior of the monastery lay buried in a brief slumber, snatched from
his accustomed vigils. His mitre--for he was a mitred Abbot, and had a seat in parliament--rested
on a table beside him: near it stood a silver flagon of Gascony wine, ready, no doubt, for
the pious uses of the morrow. Fasting and watching had made him more than usually somnolent,
than which nothing could have been better for the purpose of the Saint, who now appeared to
him radiant in all the colors of the rainbow.

"Anselm!" said the beatific vision,--"Anselm! are you not a pretty fellow to lie snoring there
when your brethren are being knocked at head, and Mother Church herself is menaced?--It is
a sin and a shame, Anselm!"

"What's the matter?--Who are you?" cried the Abbot, rubbing his eyes, which the celestial splendour
of his visitor had set a-winking. "Ave Maria! St. Austin himself! Speak, Beatissime! what would
you with the humblest of your votaries?"

"Anselm!" said the saint, a "brother of our order, whose soul Heaven assoilzie! hath been foully
murdered. He had been ignominiously kicked to the death, Anselm; and there he lieth check-by-jowl
with a wretched carcass, which our sister Bridget has turned out of her cemetery for unseemly
grinning. Arouse thee, Anselm!"

"Ay, so please you, Sanctssime!" said the Abbot. "I will order forthwith that thirty masses
be said, thirty Paters, and thirty Aves."

"Thirty fools' heads!" interrupted his patron, who was a little peppery.

"I will send for bell, book, and candle--"

"Send for an inkhorn, Anselm. Write me now a letter to his Holiness the Pope in good round
terms, and another to the Sheriff, and seize me the never-enough-to-be anathematized villain
who hath done this deed! Hang him as high as Haman, Anselm!--up with him!--down with his dwelling
place, root and branch, hearth-stone and roof-tree,--down with it all, and sow the site with
salt and sawdust."

St. Austin, it will perceived, was a radical reformer.

"Marry will I," quoth the Abbot, warming with the Saint's eloquence: "ay, marry will I, and
that instanter. But there is one thing you have forgotten most Beatified--the name of the culprit."

"Robert de Shurland."

"The Lord of Sheppey! Bless me!" said the Abbot, crossing himself, "won't that be rather inconvenient?
Sir Robert is a bold baron, and a powerful: blows will come and go, and crowns will be cracked
and--"

"What is that to you, since yours will not be of the number?"

"Very true, Beatissime!--I will don me with speed and do your bidding."

"Do so, Anselm!--fail not to hang the Baron, burn his castle, confiscate his estate, and buy
me two large wax candles for my own particular shrine out of your share of the property."

With this solemn injunction, the vision began to fade.

"One thing more!" cried the Abbot, grasping his rosary.

"What is that?" asked the Saint.

"O Beate Augustine, ora pro nobis!"

"Of course I shall," said St. Austin. "Pax vo-biscum!"--and Abbot Anselm was left alone.

Within an hour all Canterbury was in commotion. A friar had been murdered,--two friars--ten,
twenty; a whole convent had been assaulted, sacked, burnt,--all the monks had been killed,
and all the nuns had been kissed! Murder! fire! sacrilege! Never was city in such an uproar.
From St. George's gate to St. Dunstan's suburb, from the Donjon to the borough of Staplegate,
it was noise and hubbub. "Where was it?"--"When was it?"--"How was it?" The Mayor caught up
his chain, the Aldermen donned their furred gowns, the Town Clerk put on his spectacles. "Who
was he?"--"What was he?"--"Where was he?"--He should be hanged,--he should be burned,--he should
be broiled,--he should be fried,--he should be scraped to death with red-hot-oyster-shells!
"Who was he?"--"What was his name?"

The Abbot's Apparitor drew forth his roll and read aloud:--'Sir Robert de Shurland, Knight
banneret, Baron of Shurland and Minster, and Lord of Sheppey.

The Mayor put his chain in his pocket, the Aldermen took off their gowns, the Town Clerk put
his pen behind his ear. It was a county business altogether;--the Sheriff had better call out
the posse comitatus.

While saints and sinners were thus leaning against him, the Baron de Shurland was quietly eating
his breakfast. He had passed a tranquil night, undisturbed by dreams of cowl or capuchin; nor
was his appetite more affected than his conscience. On the contrary, he sat rather longer over
his meal than usual; luncheon-time came, and he was ready as ever for his oysters: but scarcely
had Dame Martin opened his first half-dozen when the warder's horn was heard from the barbican.

"Who the devil's that?" said Sir Robert. "I'm not at home, Periwinkle. I hate to be disturbed
at meals, and I won't be at home to anybody."

"An't please your lordship," answered the Seneschal, "Paul Prior hath given notice that there
is a body--"

"Another body!" roared the Baron. "Am I to be everlastingly plagued with bodies? No time allowed
me to swallow a morsel. Throw it into the moat!"

"So please you my lord, it is a body of horse,--and--and Paul says there is a still large body
of foot behind it; and he thinks, my lord-- that is, he does not know, but he thinks--and we
all think, my lord, that they are coming to--to besiege the castle!"

"Besiege the castle! Who? What? What for?"

"Paul says, my lord, that he can see the banner of St. Austin, and the bleeding heart of Hamo
de Crevecoeur, the Abbot's chief vassal; and there is John de Northwood, the sheriff, with
his red cross engrailed; and Hever, and Leybourne, and Heaven knows how many more: and they
are all coming on as fast as ever they can."

"Periwinkle," said the Baron, "up with the draw-bridge; down with the portcullis; bring me
a cup of canary, and my nightcap. I won't be bothered with them. I shall go to bed."

"To bed, my lord!" cried Periwinkle, with a look that seemed to say, "He's crazy!"

At this moment the shrill tones of a trumpet were heard to sound thrice from the champaign.
It was the signal for parley; the Baron changed his mind; instead of going to bed, he went
to the ramparts.

"Well, rapscallions! and what now?" said the Baron.

A herald, two pursuivants, and a trumpeter, occupied the foreground of the scene; behind them,
some three hundred paces off, upon a rising ground, was drawn up in battle-array the main body
of the ecclesiastical forces.

"Hear you, Robert de Shurland, Knight, Baron of Shurland and Minster, and Lord of Sheppey,
and know all men, by these presents, that I do hereby attach you, said Robert, of murder and
sacrilege, now, or of the late, done and committed by you, the said Robert, contrary to the
peace of our Sovereign Lord the King, his crown and dignity: and I do hereby require and charge
you, the said Robert, to forthwith surrender and give up your own proper person, together with
the castle of Shurland aforesaid, in order that the same may be duly dealt with according to
law. And here standeth John de Northwood, Esquire, good man and true, sheriff of this his Majesty's
most loyal county of Kent, to enforce the same if need be, with his posse comitatus--"

"His what?" said the Baron.

"His posse comitatus, and--" "Go to Bath!" said the Baron.

A defiance so contemptuous roused the ire of the adverse commanders. A volley of missiles rattled
about the Baron's ears. Nightcaps avail little against contusions. He left the walls, and returned
to the great hall. "Let them pelt away," quoth the Baron; "there are no windows to break, and
they can't get in." So he took his afternoon nap, and the siege went on.

Towards evening his lordship awoke, and grew tired of the din. Guy Pearson, too, had got a
black eye from a brick bat, and the assailants were clambering over the outer wall. So the
Baron called for his Sunday hauberk of Milan steel, and his great two-handed sword with the
terrible name:--it was the fashion in feudal times to give names to swords: King Arthur's was
christened Excalibar; the Baron called his Tickletoby, and whenever he took it in hand, it
was no joke.

"Up with the portcullis! down with the bridge!" said Sir Robert; and out he sallied followed
by the elite of his retainers. Then there was a pretty to-do. Heads flew one way--arms and
legs another; round went Tickletoby, and, wherever it alighted, down came horse and man, the
Baron excelled himself that day. All that he had done in Palestine faded in the comparison;
he had fought for fun there, but now it was for life and lands. Away went John de Northwood;
away went William of Hever, and Roger of Leybourne. Hamo de Crevecoeur, with the church vassals
and the banner of St. Austin, had been gone some time. The siege was raised, and the Lord of
Sheppey was left alone in his glory.

But, brave as the Baron undoubtedly was, and total as had been the defeat of his enemies, it
cannot be supposed that La Stoccata would be allowed to carry it away thus. It has before been
hinted that Abbot Anselm had written to the Pope, and Boniface the Eight piqued himself on
his punctuality as a correspondent in all matters connected with church discipline. He sent
back an answer by return of post; and by it all Christian people were strictly enjoined to
aid in exterminating the offender, on pain of the greater excommunication in this world and
a million of years of purgatory in the next. But then, again, Boniface the Eight was rather
at a discount in England just then. He had affronted Longshanks, as the royal lieges had nicknamed
their monarch; and Longshanks had been rather sharp upon the clergy in consequence. If the
Baron de Shurland could but get the King's pardon for what, in his cooler moments, he admitted
to be a peccadillo, he might sniff at the Pope, and bid him 'to do his devilmost.'

Fortune, who as the poet says, delights to favor the bold, stood his friend on this occasion.
Edward had been for some time collecting a large force on the coast of Kent, to carry on his
French wars for the recovery of Guienne; he was expected shortly to review it in person; but,
then, the troops lay principally in cantonments about the mouth of the Thames, and his majesty
was to come down by water. What was to be done?--the royal barge was in sight, and John de
Norwood and Hamo de Crevecoeur had broken up all the boats to boil their camp-kettles. A truly
great mind is never without resources.

"Bring me my boots!" said the Baron.

They brought him his boots, and his dapple-grey steed along with them. Such a courser; all
blood and bone, short-backed, broad-chested, and-- but that he was a little ewe-necked--faultless
in form and figure. The Baron sprang upon his back, and dashed at once into the river.

The barge which carried Edward Longshanks and his fortunes had by this time nearly reached
the Nore; the stream was broad and the current strong, but Sir Robert and his steed were almost
as broad, and a great deal stronger. After breasting the tide gallantly for a couple of miles,
the knight was near enough to hail the steersman.

"What have we got here?" said the King. "It's a mermaid," said one. "It's a grampus," said
another. "It's the devil," said a third. But they were all wrong; It was only Robert de Shurland.
"Gramercy" said the King, "that fellow was never born to be drowned!"

It has been said before that the Baron had fought in the Holy Wars; in fact, he had accompanied
Longshanks, when only heir-apparent, in his expedition twenty-five years before, although his
name is unaccountably omitted by Sir Harris Nicolas in his list of crusaders. He had been present
at Acre when Amirand of Joppa stabbed the prince with a poisoned dagger, and had lent Princess
Eleanor his own tooth-brush after she had sucked out the venom from the wound. He had slain
certain Saracens, contented himself with his own plunder, and never dunned the commissariat
for arrears of pay. Of course he ranked high in Edward's good graces, and had received the
honor of knighthood at his hands on the field of battle.

In one so circumstanced, it cannot be supposed that such a trifle as the killing of a frowsy
friar would be much resented, even had he not taken so bold a measure to obtain his pardon.
His petition was granted, of course, as soon as asked; and so it would have been had the indictment
drawn up by the Canterbury town-clerk, viz., "That he, the said Robert de Shurland, &c., had
then and there, with several, to wit, one thousand pairs of boots, given sundry, to wit, two
thousand kicks, and therewith and thereby killed divers, to wit, ten thousand, Austin friars,"
been true to the letter.

Thrice did the gallant grey circumnavigate the barge, while Robert de Winchelsey, the chancellor
and archbishop to boot, was making out, albeit with great reluctance, the royal pardon. The
interval was sufficiently long to enable his Majesty, who, gracious as he was, had always an
eye to business, just to hint that the gratitude he felt towards the Baron was not unmixed
with a lively sense of services to come; and that, if life were now spared him, common decency
must oblige him to make himself useful. Before the archbishop, who had scalded his fingers
with the wax in affixing the great seal, had time to take them out of his mouth, all was settled,
and the Baron de Shurland had pledged himself to be forthwith in readiness, cum suis, to accompany
his liege lord to Guienne.

With the royal pardon secured in his vest, boldly did his lordship turn again to the shore;
and as boldly did his courser oppose his breadth of chest to the stream. It was a work of no
common difficulty or danger; a steed of less "mettle and bone" had long since sunk in the effort;
as it was, the Baron's boots were full of water, and Grey Dolphin's chamfrain more than once
dipped beneath the wave. The convulsive snorts of the noble animal showed his distress; each
instant they became more loud and frequent; when his hoof touched the strand, "the horse and
his rider" stood once again in safety on the shore.

Rapidly dismounting the Baron was loosening the girths of his demi- pique, to give the panting
animal breath, when he was aware of as ugly an old woman as he ever clapped eyes upon, peeping
at him under the horse's belly.

"Make much of your steed, Robert Shurland! Make much of your steed!" cried the hag, shaking
at him her long and bony finger." Groom to the hide, and corn to the manger! He has saved your
life, Robert Shurland, for the nonce? but he shall yet be the means of your losing it for all
that!"

The Baron started: "What's that you say, you old faggot!" He ran round by his horse's tail;
the woman was gone!

The Baron paused: his great soul was not to be shaken by trifles! he looked around him, and
solemnly ejaculated the word "Humbug!" then slinging the bridle across his arm, walked slowly
on in the direction of the castle.

The appearance, and still more, the disappearance of the crone, had, however, made an impression;
"'Twould be deuced provoking, though, if he should break my neck after all." He turned and
gazed at Dolphin with the eye of a veterinary surgeon. "I'll be shot if he is not groggy!"
said the Baron.

With his lordship, like another great commander, "Once to be in doubt, was once to be resolved:"
it would never do to go to the wars on a ricketty prad. He dropped the rein, drew forth Tickletoby,
and, as the enfranchised Dolphin, good easy horse, stretched out his ewe-neck to the herbage,
struck off his head at a single blow. "There, you lying old beldame!" said the Baron; "now
take him away to the knacker's."

Three years were come and gone. King Edward's French wars were over; both parties having fought
till they came to a standstill, shook hands, and the quarrel, as usual, was patched up by a
royal marriage. This happy event gave his majesty leisure to turn his attention to Scotland,
where things, through the intervention of William Wallace, were looking rather queerish. As
his reconciliation with Philip now allowed of his fighting the Scotch in peace and quietness,
the monarch lost no time in marching his long legs across the border, and the short ones of
the Baron followed him of course. At Falkirk, Tickletoby was in great request; and in the year
following, we find a contemporary poet hinting at his master's prowess under the walls of Caerlaverock--

A quatrain which Mr. Simpkinson translates,

  Ovec ens fu achiminez
  Li beau Robert de Shurland
  Ri kant seoit sur le cheval
  Ne sembloit home ke someille.

  With them was marching
  The good Robert de Shurland,
  Who, when seated on horseback,
  Does not resemble a man asleep!

So thoroughly awake, indeed, does he seem to have proved himself, that the bard subsequently
exclaims in an ecstasy of admiration,

  Si ie estoie une pucellete
  Je li dourie ceur et cors
  Tant est de lu bons li reeors.

  If I were a young maiden,
  I would give my heart and perso
  So great is his fame!

Fortunately the poet was a tough old monk of Exeter; since such a present to a nobleman, now
in his grand climacteric, would hardly have been worth the carriage. With the reduction of
this stronghold of the Maxwellsse, em to have concluded the Baron's military services; as on
the very first day of the fourteenth century we find him once more landed on his native shore,
and marching, with such of his retainers as the wars had left him, towards the hospitable shelter
of Shurland Castle. It was then, upon that very beach, some hundred yards distant from high-water
mark, that his eye fell upon something like an ugly woman in a red cloak. She was seated on
what seemed to be a large stone, in an interesting attitude, with her elbows resting upon her
knees, and her chin upon her thumbs The Baron started; the remembrance of his interview with
a similar personage in the same place, some three years since, flashed upon his recollection.
He rushed towards the spot, but the form was gone:--nothing remained but the seat it had appeared
to occupy. This, on examination, turned out to be no stone, but the whitened skull of a dead
horse! A tender remembrance of the deceased Grey Dolphin shot a momentary pang into the Baron's
bosom: he drew the back of his hand across his face; the thought of the hag's prediction in
an instant rose, and banished all softer emotions. In utter contempt of his own weakness, yet
with a tremor that deprived his redoubtable kick of half its wonted force, he spurned the relic
with his foot. One word alone issued from his lips, elucidatory of what was passing in his
mind--it long remained imprinted on the memory of his faithful followers--that word was "Gammon!"
The skull bounded across the beach till it reached the very margin of the stream:--one instant
more and it would be ingulfed for ever. At that moment a loud "Ha! ha! ha!" was distinctly
heard by the whole train to issue from its bleached and toothless jaws: it sank beneath the
flood in a horselaugh.

Meanwhile Sir Robert de Shurland felt an odd sort of sensation in his right foot. His boots
had suffered in the wars. Great pains had been taken for their preservation. They had been
"soled" and "heeled" more than once:--had they been "goloshed," their owner might have defied
Fate! Well has it been said that "there is no such a thing as a trifle." A nobleman's life
depended upon a question of ninepence.

The Baron marched on: the uneasiness in his foot increased. He plucked off his boot; a horse's
tooth was sticking in his great toe!

The result may be anticipated. Lame as he was, his lordship, with characteristic decision,
would hobble on to Shurland; his walk increased the inflammation; a flagon of aqua vitae did
not mend matters. He was in a high fever; he took to his bed. Next morning the toe presented
the appearance of a Bedfordshire carrot; by dinner time it had deepened to beet-root; and when
Bargrave, the leech, at last sliced it off, the gangrene was too confirmed to admit of remedy.
Dame Martin thought it high time to send for Miss Margaret, who, ever since her mother's death,
had been living with her maternal aunt, the abbess, in the Ursuline convent at Greenwich. The
young lady came, and with her came one Master Ingoldsby, her cousin-german by the mother's
side; but the Baron was too far gone in the dead-thraw to recognize either. He died as he lived,
unconquered and unconquerable. His last words were--"tell the old hag she may go to--." Whither
remains a secret. He expired without fully articulating the place of her destination.

But who and what was the crone who prophesied the catastrophe? Ay, "that is the mystery of
this wonderful history."--Some say it was Dame Fothergill, the late confessor's mamma; others,
St. Bridget herself; others thought it was nobody at all, but only a phantom conjured up by
conscience. As we do not know, we decline giving an opinion.

And what became of the Clerk of Chatham? Mr. Simkinson avers that he lived to a good old age,
and was at last hanged by Jack Cade, with his inkhorn about his neck, for "setting boys copies."
In support of this he adduces his name "Emmanuel," and refers to the historian Shakespeare.
Mr. Peters, on the contrary, considers this to be what he calls one of Simkinson's "Anacreonisms,"
inasmuch as, at the introduction of Mr. Cade's reform measure, the Clerk, if alive, would have
been hard upon two hundred years old. The probability is that the unfortunate alluded to was
his great grandson.

Margaret Shurland in due course became Margaret Ingoldsby: her portrait still hangs in the
gallery at Tappington. The features are handsome, but shrewdish, betraying, as it were, a touch
of the old Baron's temperament; but we never could learn that she actually kicked her husband.
She brought him a very pretty fortune in chains, watches, and Saracen ear-rings; the barony,
being a male fief, reverted to the Crown.

In the Abbey-church at Minster may yet be seen the tomb of a recumbent warrior, clad in the
chain-mail of the 13th century. His hands are clasped in prayer; his legs, crossed in that
position so prized by Templars in ancient, and tailors in modern days, bespeak him a soldier
of the faith in Palestine. Close behind his dexter calf lies sculptured in bold relief a horse's
head: and a respectable elderly lady, as she shows the monument, fails not to read her auditors
a fine moral lesson on the sin of ingratitude, or to claim a sympathizing tear to the memory
of poor "Grey Dolphin!"

RICHARD HARRIS BARHAM.

ARTEMUS WARD.

MR. COLUMBUS CORIANDER'S GORILLA.

My article on the Origin of the Human Species had been months in preparation. Much of the fame
which I have since secured by its publication in that widely circulated magazine, the Interoceanic
Monthly, is due to the fact that I spent weeks in deep investigations in ethnological science,
comparing results, and especially examining the points of resemblance which exist in the brute
creation and the nobler race of man. To say that I utterly overthrew the Darwinian theory,
and quite demolished the tribe of pretenders who have since attempted to imitate that great
apostle of error, may not be strictly in accordance with modesty, but hosts of candid friends
will admit that it is strictly true. I know very well that, though my untiring labors in the
cause of science are not yet thoroughly appreciated, an admiring posterity will dwell with
delight on the name of Samuel Simcox as the benefactor of his race, who showed where that race
had its birth and from what primitive elements it sprang. For further particulars, see the
Interoceanic Monthly for June, 18--.

My favorite haunt during the progress of this article was Coriander's Menagerie; having resolved
that this should be the masterpiece of my life, I spared neither labor nor expense upon it,
and actually procured a season ticket to the menagerie, and passed many pleasant hours in watching
the wild animals, studying their habits, and drawing many valuable conclusions from their points
of resemblance and difference. Consequently, though the apes and monkeys had furnished me with
an inexhaustible fund of amusement and interest, I was delighted beyond measure when it was
announced that Coriander had secured a live gorilla for his collection of wild beasts. An agent
had been dispatched to Africa, and had sent home, with great secrecy, a real live specimen
of this dreadful beast; and so well had all the negotiations been kept that nobody knew of
what was being done, until the monster was fairly caged and on exhibition at Coriander's Menagerie.
I entered with zest upon a study of the creature's habits and peculiarities; and while the
idle curiosity of mere wonder-mongers kept a vast crowd about the cage wherein the furious
beast was confined, calmly I surveyed it from a safe distance and made my scientific observations
for the benefit of mankind. And when vulgar wonder at the strange beast had somewhat subsided,
and I could get nearer the cage and watch the gorilla, I was more and more impressed with the
human traits which I discovered in the extraordinary animal. His manner of reclining was, though
impish, half human; and his grotesque gait, as he sprang from side to side of the narrow prison,
was suggestive of his supposititious congener-man; even his terrible howl, which rent the air
of the museum constantly, had a human shade of sound.

One rainy day, when the great hall of the museum was unusually vacant of visitors, I almost
leaned against the cage in my eager watch of the movements of the gorilla. I fancied him roaming
his native African jungles, the terror of every living thing, or rearing, with a strange grotesque
solicitude, his young family. I wondered how much akin to human love and hate were the passions
that raged beneath that hairy breast, and how much of real feeling was in the loud and anguished
howl that occasionally burst from those fanglike jaws. Thus speculating, I drew incautiously
near the bars of the cage where the monster restlessly paced up and down, and was inexpressibly
startled at feeling his hot breath on my cheek, while from his huge, hairy lips came the sound--"Sam!"
I actually jumped with astonishment, whereupon the creature beseechingly said: "Hush, hush,
for Heaven's sake do not leave me!" I mustered courage enough to ask what all this meant. The
gorilla answered: "I am your old friend, Jack Gale; don't leave me."

So Coriander's famous gorilla was no other than my old crony, Jack Gale.

And this is how Jack happened to be a gorilla:

Coriander's keepers were too watchful to permit much conversation, but taking from the gorilla--for
such he still was to me--the address of Jack Gale, No. 1283, Morusmulticaulis Street, I went
home to revise some of my deductions relative to the origin of the human species, founded on
observations of the gorilla in a state of comparative wildness. The menagerie closed at ten
o'clock in the evening, and precisely at half-past ten I was at Jack's lodgings, to which I
climbed up four flights of crooked and very dark stairways. The room was small and cheerless;
the windows were carefully guarded by thick curtains; three or four swinging bars depended
from the ceiling for the practice of its inmate in acrobatic exercises; across the foot of
the bed lay a well-dressed gorilla's skin, and at a small table, and absorbing the contents
of a pot of beer, sat the wearer of this discarded robe. This was the haunt of the African
gorilla. He told his story in a few words.

"When you and I were used to talk with each other along the Tallapoosa and Athens wire, I never
thought to meet you as a live gorilla; but here I am. After the war was over and the Government
discharged so many telegraph operators, it was hard scratching for a while; and after you and
I left the Decapolis office, I was well-nigh broke more than once, only a few cents standing
between me and beggary. But I kept a stiff upper lip and struggled up to Cincinnati, where
I met with Coriander. He was out there with his menagerie and was about to come on to this
city and open a big show. He is a great old villain, but he has the sweetest, nicest little
daughter that ever was given to man. You haven't seen Clara Coriander, have you? No? Well,
you have not seen the loveliest and best girl in the world, then. But, as I was saying, old
Coriander was preparing for a year's campaign in this city, and allotted a great deal on a
real, live gorilla which had been captured in the wilds of Africa somewhere. Oh, curse that
gorilla; I wish I had been dead before I ever heard of him."

And here Jack groaned.

"I love Clara Coriander. I suppose you have guessed that out already. But it was the old story;
poor young man, without fortune or friends; cruel parents determined that their only daughter
shall not marry a beggar; young lady inconsolable and devoted to aforesaid young man, but dreadfully
afraid of papa, whose only child she is. Well, Coriander came on here and I followed, the old
man giving me the job of writing his posters and advertisements--to keep me from starving,
I suppose. The long-expected Gooroo arrived from Zanzibar, but no gorilla was there on board
for Mr. Coriander; there was a skin of that celebrated animal, the beast himself having departed
this life off the island of St. Helena, an imitation of the example of another much-feared
person who once resided in that locality.

"Coriander was frantic. The great card of his menagerie was not to be his. His long-cherished
plans were a wreck; his money was spent for naught; he had no gorilla. After all, I rather
like the old wretch (Coriander, I mean). He has an absolute passion for his 'profession,' as
he calls it, and was more in despair because he had no gorilla, than because it was a bad financial
operation, which left him without that for which he had spent so much money. He was wretched
in his disappointment, and postponed indefinitely the opening of his menagerie, though my elegant
advertisements were in all the papers, and our flaming posters covered the walls of the city
from one end to the other. Gloom reigned in the house of Coriander.

"This was my opportunity. I was in love with Clara and without any permanent occupation. Presenting
myself before the old man, I said: 'Mr. Coriander, you want a gorilla?'

"'To be sure,' said he, testily.

"'I will furnish you with one.'

"'The devil you will!'

"'Look here,' said I, stepping back a few paces. Grasping the top of a heavy wardrobe that
stood in the room, I swung myself up, clambered along the top, sprang up and down over chairs
and tables, raced around the room with huge strides and jumps, and finally wound up my performances
by rushing at the astonished Coriander, and, beating my breast, gave a terrific howl, that
fairly made the old man quail as he writhed in his chair. I had not been practicing for nothing,
evidently. Coriander was actually frightened.

"'What does this mean,' he gasped, with some rage mingled with his perturbation.

"'I am the live gorilla from the wilds of Africa,' said I. 'Give me my skin that arrived by
the Gooroo from Zanzibar, and I will scare this city out of its senses when the menagerie opens,
after a brief delay on account of the difficulty of preparing for the enormous additions, which
a discriminating public will be delighted to see.'

"Old Coriander embraced me with tears in his eyes, declaring that I was a real genius, and
was born to the show business.

"'But,' said I, 'though I am poor and need the money which you will pay me, I have one other
condition, and that is that you shall give me your daughter's hand if I succeed.'

"The old man was rather taken aback at this, and flatly refused at first; and we wrangled over
the matter for two or three days, but, after seeing me in the skin of the gorilla, and go through
my antics and performances, he reluctantly gave in and agreed that after one year of gorilla
life in his service, I should have the happiness of marrying Clara. He only stipulated that
I should not hereafter tell anybody of the cheat, and that not even Clara should know of it now.

"I am aware that my profession is not high art as you call it, and on hot days it is precious
uncomfortable. But what won't a fellow do under the pressure of an exchequer in distress, and
enticed by the promise of the hand of the prettiest and best girl in the world? The pay is
not much, but I keep soul and body together, which is more than some poor devils do in this
great city. By the way, Sam, have you got five dollars about you?"

Now, if there was anything that Jack Gale specially loved, it was the state of being in debt.
He was never so happy as when in debt, and when by accident, or the interference of friends,
he got out of it, he was uneasy and wretched, apparently, until he got in again. The normal
condition of the man was debt; so when he asked me for a loan, I could not help laughing; and
I told him that he had undoubtedly found one of the greatest privations of his gorilla life
to be the difficulty of contracting new debts.

"That's a fact," said Jack. "The menagerie opens at eight o'clock in the morning; it takes
me a good hour to get myself up for the day; and we don't shut up until ten o'clock at night;
so you see my professional duties are very confining, and a real, live African gorilla is not
supposed to have first-rate credit with the people who poke stale sandwiches and peanuts through
his cage-bars by day."

I promised Jack that if old Seanecks, of the Interoceanic Monthly, accepted my article on the
Origin of the Human Species, I would divide the proceeds with him. Jack and I had shared and
shared alike with our little gains too often in years gone by, for me to remember which owed
the other now. Besides, I told him that I had studied his habits as a gorilla, and he had some
claim upon the profits of an article in which his personal peculiarities figured so largely.

During the next few days I observed the characteristics of Coriander's African gorilla with
new interest. He performed wonderfully well; it was difficult to realize that the hairy, ravening,
agile, and grotesquely-moving beast, from which every visitor shrank back aghast, was only
jolly Jack Gale serving out his hard servitude for an anticipated bride, very much after the
ancient fashion of Laban's kinsman. The cunning rascal had a fashion of leaping at the bars
when curious people came too near, driving them away from a narrow inspection by his hideous
yells and angry mouthings. But his roars, which were really artistic in their brutal sonorousness,
served us a good purpose. As I was night editor on the Daily Highflyer, and kept pretty close
from ten until three o'clock in the morning, and Jack was caged until the hour at which I went
to work, it was not easy for us to meet. So we exchanged the salutations of the day and a few
scraps of news by using our old signals, learned long ago in the telegraph office. Instead
of the rat-tat-tat of the little instrument so familiar to both of us, Jack, by a series of
long or short howls and grunts, gave me his message, to which I replied by careless taps of
my cane or hand, nobody suspecting that my casual movements meant anything, nor supposing for
an instant that a sudden burst of African forest yells, which sent a fat lady nearly into hysterics,
and made two small children howl with apprehension, merely meant "She with the pink bonnet
is my Clara."

And it must be confessed that Clara Coriander was an exceedingly attractive young person. Blonde,
slight in figure, and with one of those fair transparent complexions that make you think of
a light shining through an alabaster vase, Clara Coriander was certainly as lovely a girl as
one ever lays eyes upon. Besides, she was an only daughter, and old Coriander had grown rich
in the menagerie business. Jack was a lucky dog (gorilla, I should say), to gain her hand--if
he ever did; but one could not help thinking, as he noted her dainty manner and delicate, somewhat
distingue face, that she was hardly the girl to fancy a fellow who had personated a gorilla,
even for her hand. I was afraid that Jack had made a mistake in thus debasing himself to the
absurd passion of her cruel parent for the possession of a gorilla. Moreover, by debarring
himself from her society for a greater portion of the time (Sundays only excepted), he left
the field open for some more fortunate rival who might, in the meantime, carry off the prize.

But Jack felt sure that he was all right, and by a precious bit of deception he had led Clara
to believe that he was hard at work, night and day, at some legitimate calling, earning money
for his future ambitious designs in life. The poor little thing believed in him, but Jack said
it was very hard for him to be obliged to see his beloved flirting, right before his eyes at
the menagerie (for the girl had a taste for natural history, and was there often), with some
perfumed dangler who was in love with her pretty face and old Coriander's money. On these occasions,
he hated himself for his mean disguise, and found satisfaction in howling at the gay party
in such dreadful fashion as sent them quaking from his cage; and then he cursed himself for
having driven away his lovely angel, and was smitten with sudden remorse as he saw her rose-hued
cheeks blanch at his terrific cries. At such times he could with difficulty restrain himself
from shouting: "Don't be frightened, dear, it's only Jack!" But he was fortunately preserved
from such an untimely exposure.

Old Seanecks was very mean, and, though he accepted my article on the Origin of the Human Species,
only paid me the pitiful sum of twenty dollars for that valuable contribution to knowledge.
Twenty dollars for the labor and thought of weeks! Was ever anything so absurd! And there was
Jack confidently expecting at least twenty-five dollars to purchase a birth-day present for
Clara. Jack loved to make presents, and the deeper he got into debt, the more presents did
he bestow on his friends. Such another whole-souled fellow as he was, to be sure.

But I pocketed the disappointment along with the money and went straightway to the menagerie.
There was quite a little crowd about Jack's cage, standing at a respectful distance. In his
capacity as the real African gorilla, Jack had just avenged himself on a dangerous rival by
snatching off his matchless wig. This gentleman had long deceived his friends with his ambrosial
locks, but Jack's quick eye had discovered the cheat, and he seized a favorable moment to make
a grab for it. To his inexpressible joy, it came off in his paw, and the discomfitted gallant
stood with his bare poll in the presence of the giggling and amused Clara Coriander. The amateur
gorilla was in a frenzy of delight, and tore up and down his cage, scattering Mr. Jonquil's
chestnut curls with savage glee. Old Coriander afterwards had to pay for the wig, of course,
but he was so delighted with the stroke of showman genius displayed in its destruction, that
he paid the bill without a murmur. None but a wild and savage animal, of course, would "snatch
a gentleman bald-headed," as the old man expressed it. I suppose some of my readers, who now
recollect the occurrence, will agree with Mr. Coriander in his opinion.

After the little crowd which this amusing affair had drawn around the cage, dispersed in various
directions, I drew near enough to hand Jack a ten-dollar note, which was his share of the proceeds
of my article in Interoceanic Monthly. He snatched it furtively, for the keepers were not far
off, and cramming it into his ferocious jaws (lined with blood-red velvet), he howled in his
usual staccato style, "Didn't I scalp old Jonquil, though!"

One of the keepers approaching me, said, suspiciously, "Look a-here, young man, you make entirely
too free with that ere beast. He's awful, he is, and some day he'll just go for you, if you
ain't keerful. Why, this afternoon, he jest tore a gentleman's skelp clean off his head, and
he was borne out in a fainting condition. Jest see the hair of him all scattered over the cage."

I humbly thanked him for the caution, and drew off, asking for information as to the creatures's
habits. He was very talkative, and enlightened me with much valuable knowledge relative to
his diet, averring that he invariably was fed before the menagerie was opened, the raw meat
and live rabbits which he devoured exasperating him by their blood to that degree, that it
was not safe for any person but the keeper to come into his sight. The gorilla enjoyed this
confidential communication, and roared his approval thus: "He's the head liar of this menagerie."

Jack and I kept up a casual correspondence from day to day by means of our telegraphic signals,
for I had little time to see him when off duty. Occasionally I strolled in of an evening to
commiserate his ennui and cheer him up with a friendly sign, or when opportunity offered, to
chat furtively with the man-gorilla, who swore dreadfully at the bad bargain which he had made.
His confinement was growing excessively irksome, and though his constant exercise kept him
in good bodily health, poor Jack lost his spirits and grew positively wretched in mind. One
night, when I had managed to find time to visit him at his "den" in Morusmulticaulis Street,
he grew quite plaintive over his unhappy condition.

"Hang it, Sam," said he, "you have no idea how mad it makes me to think that I have shut myself
up in that cage for a year, and with no chance of getting out without telling Clara what I
have been doing. And there she goes pottering about the out the least idea that Jack, unhappy
Jack, is glowering at her from his cursed gorilla prison, longing to say the words that would
bring confusion and dismay upon all of us. And then when I see some other fellow flirting around
with her, and old Coriander leering over her head at me, knowing full well how aggravated I
am, why, it just makes me wild."

I comforted Jack as well as I could, and bade him hope that some stroke of luck would yet deliver
him from his voluntary thraldom and bring him to his love. He was hopeful that old Coriander
would find the gorilla business unprofitable, and would offer to buy him off, or consent to
shorter terms. He vowed one day that unless relief soon came, he would address the crowd about
his cage and inform them that he was an unmitigated humbug; that he was no gorilla at all,
but only a distressed gentleman, John Gale by name, temporarily held in duress by that old
rascal, Columbus Coriander. But he restrained himself and waited. It was well that he did.

One evening, finding an unemployed half-hour at my disposal, I sauntered into the menagerie
hall, and watched the poor weary beasts slowly composing themselves to their unquiet slumbers.
It was nearly time to close the show for the night, and not many people were left to stroll
about among the cages. Old Coriander was there with his fat wife, the lovely Clara floating
about in a cloudy white dress, and followed by a train of admiring swains. The poor gorilla
was stretched at full length on the floor of his cage, with his face sullenly turned to the
rear partition. Passing by the poor fellow, with a little pang of regret, I stopped before
a cage of apes, poor Jack's next door neighbors. No wonder that he felt blue sometimes.

Suddenly there was a rush of hurrying feet; a strange confusion pervaded the whole place, lately
so quiet and still; and above the pungent odor of the menagerie, I detected that of burning
wood. The place was on fire, and instantly everybody ran for the exits. The hall was filled
with blinding smoke; the red tongues of flame thrust themselves eagerly through the thin partitions
which separated the main exhibition hall from the lumber-rooms in the rear. And the people
who rushed selfishly down the narrow stairways fled not only from the flames, but from the
poor beasts who cowered in their cages, or roared angrily as they caught the mad excitement
around them. The scene was terrible; the crackling, roaring fires sweeping out into the long
room; the wild terror of the caged animals; the shrieks and cries of flocks of suddenly-liberated
strange birds; and the surging clouds of smoke which rolled through the high arches overhead.
Passing near the gorilla's cage I heard Jack's voice, as he yelled with stentorian lungs: "Will
nobody let me out? Oh, will nobody let me out?" Quick as thought I ran behind his cage, and
unfastened the narrow flap that closed the opening. In another moment the African gorilla was
out and across the hall, to where a blonde young lady in a white dress was being helplessly
borne along by old Coriander, also encumbered by the stout mother of Miss Clara--for Jack had
seen that his beloved was in mortal danger. Raising the fainting girl in his strong arms, the
hairy monster rushed down the stairs, astounding the coming firemen with the sight of a ferocious
gorilla carrying off a respectable young lady, whose flaxen curls lay lovingly over the dreadful
shoulders of the beast, which, with ludicrous failure, endeavored to caress the pallid face
of the young lady with his hairy jaws, stiff with padding and whalebone, and nicely lined with
blood-red velvet.

The gorilla fled up the street, bearing his dainty burden--for, once in sight, he could not
stop with out exposure. Plodding travellers on the illuminated sidewalks were startled by the
swift apparition of a gorilla carrying off a young lady, who was borne into dark alleys to
be eaten in the obscurity of some hidden den. Casual wayfarers through back streets shrieked
and ran as they beheld a flaming hairy dragon leaping with enormous strides, and carrying the
corpse of a nice young person hanging over his shoulder. Good Mrs. Harris, who keeps the lodging-house
at No. 1283, Morusmulticaulis Street, fell down in a deadly swoon at her own doorway, as she
was returning from a class- meeting, to see the Evil One, equipped with the traditional head,
horns, and tail, breathing fire and sulphurous smoke, violently deporting a beautiful young
lady, who had for love of dress and other worldly vanities, sold herself to Old Nick. Vaulting
over the prone body of the insensible Mrs. Harris, Jack eluded his few pursuers, and darted
up the stairs to his own private den, were he shut and locked himself and his fair burthen
from the world.

The lovely Clara revived shortly, and opening her eyes shut them again with a great scream.
She was in the den of the African gorilla. There was more fainting, and more anguish on the
part of Jack, who cursed his luck and his folly together. "It's Jack; it's only Jack," he cried,
with real agony, as he tore off his mask; and the young lady, slowly returning to her senses,
once more opened her eyes and beheld her lover, a real African gorilla from his chin downwards,
but possessing a very resolute yet anxious human head, very like Jack Gale's, with the scalp
and grinning jaws of the defunct monster hanging behind his ears.

This was an extraordinary situation; a nice young lady in a strange garret, confronted by an
erratic young man in semi-gorilla costume; his countenance flushed with excitement and exercise;
his eyes wild with anxiety and alarm, and his whole manner that of a person who is in a state
of utter quandary. The truth of history compels me to record the fact that Miss Clara Coriander
threw up her hands and laughed as she would die. She was a sensible girl, and liked a good
joke. Old Coriander's plans were laid bare to her clear vision in one moment; she saw through
the whole trick; and laughed in the face of the astonished Mr. Gale. "Oh, Jack," she said,
as soon as she could recover her breath, "how could you be such a fool? Where Oh, oh, oh!"
To all of which Jack could only reply by instalments. But by secluding the young lady on the
stairway, he succeeded in preparing for their return to the Coriander mansion. Through the
half-deserted streets the young couple went in different guise from that in which they had
before astonished those who saw them flee. The gorilla delivered up the old man's daughter,
and was glad to be told that the menagerie, not quite ruined, must needs he closed for a few
months for repairs.

The show opened again in due season with new attractions, under the management of Coriander
and Gale. But in all the lines of cages of rare beasts, no African gorilla was to be found.
In lieu thereof they showed a handsomely stuffed skin of the much lamented beast, which came
to an untimely end in consequence of a cold caught by exposure at the great menagerie fire.
Coriander's heart relented when Jack saved his daughter from the burning building, and he found
his inventive genius invaluable in the show business.

I have seen the only young gorilla born on American soil, of which there is any account. It
has pink cheeks and blue eyes, and is learning to answer to the name of Clara Gale.

THE FATE OF YOUNG CHUBB

When Mr. Chubb, the elder, returned from Europe, he brought with him from Geneva, a miniature
musical-box, long and very narrow, and altogether of hardly greater dimensions, say, then a
large pocket- knife. The instrument played four cheerful little tunes, for the benefit of the
Chubb family, and they enjoyed it. Young Henry Chubb enjoyed it to such an extent that one
day, just after the machine had been wound up ready for action he got to sucking the end of
it, and in a moment of inadvertence it slipped, and he swallowed it. The only immediate consequence
of the accident was that a harmonic stomach-ache was organized upon the interior of Henry Chubb
and he experienced a restlessness which he well knew would defy the soothing tendencies of
peppermint and make a mockery of paregoric.

And Henry Chubb kept his secret in his own soul and in his stomach, also determined to hide
his misery from his father, and to spare the rod to the spoiled child--spoiled, at any rate,
as far as his digestive apparatus was concerned.

But that evening, at the supper table, Henry had eaten but one mouthful of bread, when strains
of wild, mysterious music were suddenly wafted from under the table. The family immediately
made an effort to discover whence the sounds came, although Henry Chubb set there filled with
agony and remorse and bread and tunes, and desperately asserted his belief that the music came
from the cellar where the hired girl was concealed with a harp. He well knew that Mary Ann
was unfamiliar with the harp, but he was frantic with anxiety to hide his guilt. Thus it is
that one crime leads to another.

But he could not disguise the truth forever, and that very night, while the family was at prayers,
Henry all at once began to hiccup, and the musicbox started off without warning, with "way
down on the Swanee River," with variations. Whereupon the paternal Chubb arose from his knees
and grasped Henry kindly but firmly by his hair and shook him up, and inquired what he meant
by such conduct.

And Henry asserted that he was practicing something for a Sunday-school celebration, which
old Chubb intimated was a singularly thin explanation.

Then they tried to get up that music-box, and every time they would seize Henry by the leg
and shake him over the sofa-cushion, or would pour some fresh variety of emetic down his throat,
the instrument would give some fresh sport, and joyously grind out "Listen to the Mocking Bird,"
or "Thou'lt Never Cease to love."

At last, they were compelled to permit that musical box to remain within the sepulchral recesses
of the epigastrium of young Chubb. To say that the unfortunate victim of the disaster was made
miserable by his condition, would be to express in the feeblest manner the state of his mind.
The more music there was in his stomach, the wilder and more chaotic became the discord in
his soul. As likely as not, it would occur that while he lay asleep in bed in the middle of
the night, the works would begin to revolve, and would play "Home, Sweet Home," for two or
three hours, unless the peg happened to slip, when the cylinder would switch back again to
"way down upon the Swanee River" and would rattle out that tune with variations and fragments
of the scales, until Henry's brother would kick him out of bed in wild despair, and sit on
him in a vain effort to subdue the serenade, which, how ever, invariably proceeded with fresh
vigor when subjected to unusual pressure.

And when Henry Chubb went to church it frequently occurred that, in the very midst of the most
solemn portion of the sermon, he would feel a gentle disturbance under the lower button of
his jacket, and presently, when everything was hushed, the undigested engine would give a preliminary
buzz, and then reel off "Listen to the Mocking Bird," and "Thou'lt Never Cease to Love," and
scales and exercises, until the clergyman would stop and glare at Henry over his spectacles,
and whisper to one of the deacons.

Then the sexton would suddenly tack up the aisle and clutch the unhappy Mr. Chubb by the collar,
and scud down the aisle again to the accompaniment of "Home Sweet Home," and then incarcerate
Henry in the upper portion of the steeple until after church. But the end came at last, and
the miserable boy found peace. One day, while he was sitting in school, endeavoring to learn
his multiplication table to the tune of "Thou'lt Cease to Love," his gastric juice triumphed.
Something or other in the music-box gave way all at once, the springs were unrolled with alarming
force, and Henry Chubb, as he felt the fragments of the instruments hurled right and left among
his vitals, tumbled over on the floor and expired.

At the post-mortem examination they found several pieces of "Home, Sweet Home" in his liver,
while one of his lungs was severely torn by a fragment of "Way down upon the Swanee river."

Particles of "Listen to the Mocking Bird" were removed from his heart and breast-bone, and
three brass pegs of "Thou'lt Never Cease to Love" were found firmly driven into his fifth rib.

They had no music at the funeral. They lifted the machinery out of him and buried him quietly
in the cemetery. Whenever the Chubbs buy musical boxes now, they get them as large as a piano,
and chain them to the wall. MAX ADLER.

BOOTS AT THE HOLLY-TREE INN.

Before the days of railways, and in the time of the old Great North Road, I was once snowed
up at the Holly-tree Inn. Beguiling the days of my imprisonment there by talking at one time
or other with the whole establishment, I one day talked with the Boots, when he lingered in
my room.

Where had he been in his time?

"What do you think my grandmama gives me when I go down there?" I make the inquiry because
if I find that any of my people really has anything to complain of, I wish to make it right
if I can." "No, sir," says Cobbs; "thanking you, sir, I find myself as well situated here as
I could hope to be anywheres. The truth is, sir, that I am going to seek my fortune."

"Is there any thing you want just at present, sir?" says Cobbs, mortally ashamed of himself.

CHARLES DICKENS.

THE ENTHUSIAST IN ANATOMY.

The youth whom we shall call "Tom"--and nothing but "Tom," was one of those individuals who
labor with a fierce, burning anxiety to burst through the trammels imposed upon them by a limited
education,--one of those votaries of science, whose energy seems to grow all the more, because
it has nothing to feed upon. He was very slightly formed, and had eyes so bright and shining
that when one gazed on him, one was inclined to overlook all his other thin, sharply defined
features. Never was there a more complete appearance of a clear intelligence in a corporeal form.

The few half-pence which Tom was enabled to save from his scanty earnings at a laborious trade,
he regularly expended at the bookstall; and on one occasion was highly delighted at picking
up a small book on anatomy. The work was one of those that had long been superseded by more
modern and better treatises, and the little plates were as ill and coarsely done as possible.
Nevertheless, with him it had not the disadvantage of comparison. He thought it a mine of science
yet unexplored, and he suffered his whole soul to be absorbed by it.

In a few weeks he had transferred the entire contents of the work into his own brain; and though
he invariably carried the book in his pocket, it was more out of respect to it, as an old friend,
than from any further benefit to be derived from it. The names of eery bone, cartilage, ligament,
and muscle of which he had read, were deeply imprinted in his mind; and he could have passed
with glory through the sharpest examination, provided it had been based on the contents of
the little book.

But Tom, in spite of his knowledge, was too intelligent not to perceive the defective state
of his acquirements. He soon felt that his anatomy was after all, a science of names, rather
than of things--that though he could have described accurately all the intricate bones of the
skull, and all the muscles of the extremities, his descriptions would have been little more
than a repetition of words committed to memory. He had not seen a single real object connected
with his science. If he could but have set eyes upon a skeleton, what an advantage it would
have been.

We once read of a celebrated anatomist, who, far from admiring human beauty, regarded the skin,
as an impertinent obstacle to the acquisition of science, concealing, as it does, the play
of the muscles. Whether such a clear notion as this ever entered the mind of our hero, we cannot
say, but certainly if some tall, lean beggar passed him on the road, he would clutch convulsively
at his knife, and follow the man with a sad, wistful look.

One autumnal evening he sat in the ale-house parlor, watching the smoke of his pipe, and indulging
in his own reflections; for though the conversation in the room was noisy and animated, it
had no interest for him. Devoted to his own pursuits, births, deaths and marriages were to
him things of nought, and he paid no heed to the constant discussions which were held in the
village, on the extraordinary case of old Ebenezer Grindstone, who had been thought extremely
rich, but in whose house not a farthing had been found after his decease, to the great disappointment
of his creditors.

Soon, however, there was such a violent dash of rain against the window, that even Tom was
compelled to start, when he saw the door open, and a stranger enter, completely muffled in
a cloak. The new comer stood before the fire as if to dry himself, and seemed to be of the
same taciturn disposition as Tom, for he made no answer to the different questions that were
addressed to him, nor did he even condescend to look at the speakers. The shower having ceased,
the moon shining brightly through the window, the stranger walked out again, without the sign
of leave-taking.

"That be a queer chap," said the ostler, "I'll run and see where he's going," and he followed
the stranger, who had awakened a curiosity in every one except Tom. Scarcely five minutes had
elapsed, when the ostler rushed into the room, pale as death.

"Udds buddikins!" said he, and it was not before a glass of spirits had been poured down his
throat, that he could state the cause of his alarm. "Old chap just gone out got no proper face
like--only a death's head--he just looked around on me in the moonlight."

"Do you mean to say," exclaimed Tom, "that he is nothing but a skeleton?"

"Aye, sure I do," said the ostler.

"And which way did he go?"

"Why, towards the church-yard, sure," said the ostler. Tom waited for no more, but, dashing
down his pipe, he rushed out of the room, and tore along the road to the churchyard. When he
had got there, he saw the stranger standing by the tomb of old Ebenezer Grindstone. The moon
was shining full upon him, and, as Tom approached, the cloak fell down, leaving nothing but
a bare skeleton before him.

"Thank my stars!" exclaimed Tom, "I have seen a skeleton at last!"

"Young man!" said the skeleton, in a hollow voice, while it hideously moved its jaws, "attend!"

"How beautifully," cried Tom, enraptured, "can I see the play of the lower maxillary!"

"Attend!" repeated the skeleton; "but, rash man! what are you about?" it added, turning suddenly
round. The fact is, Tom was running his fingers down the vertebrae, and counting to see if
their number corresponded with that given in his book. "Seven cervical, twelve dorsal!" he
cried with immense glee.

The skeleton lost all patience, and, raising its arm, shook its fist angrily at Tom, who, with
his eyes fixed on the elbow, merely shouted his joy, at perceiving the "ginglymoid" movement.

The skeleton, who had been accustomed to terrify other people, was completely amazed at the
scientific position taken by the young anatomist. In fact, the most extraordinary scene that
can be conceived presently occurred; for the apparition, feeling panic-struck at Tom's coolness
and scientific spirit, darted away from him, and endeavored to escape by dodging among the
tomb-stones. Tom was too anxious to pursue his studies to allow himself to be baffled in this
way; and putting forth all his strength, soon overtook the skeleton, and held him tight, a
conversation ensued, in the course of which the skeleton explained that he was old Grindstone
himself, who had buried a quantity of money underground, and could not rest in peace till it
was dug up and distributed among the creditors. This office he requested Tom to perform.

"It will be some trouble," said Tom, "and the affair is none of mine-- but lookye--I'm willing
to comply with your request, if, as a reward, you will allow me to come and study you every
night for the next month. You may then retire to rest for as long a time as you please."

"Agreed," said the skeleton; and, quite recovered from his alarm, he shook hands with Tom in
ratification of the bargain.

Tom found the money, distributed it among the creditors, and passed every night for the next
month in the old churchyard, observing his beloved skeleton, which as it moved into any position
he desired, gave him an opportunity of studying the motion of the bones, in a way that had
not been enjoyed by any other anatomist.

The young enthusiast, sitting at midnight with the strange assistant to his pursuits, would
have been a delightful sight, had any one possessed the courage to stop and look at the party.
When the month had expired, Tom and his good friend shook hands and parted with great regret;
but Tom had completely retained in his mind all he had seen and laid the foundation of that
profound anatomical science by which he was afterwards so much distinguished.

It is needless to add that this is the true account of the early career of the celebrated Dr.----,
and that all others are baseless fabrications.

JOHN OXENFORD.

"'Well?' said she, without once looking around. The other hastily followed.

GEORGE MACDONALD.

THE LEGEND OF THE LITTLE WEAVER.

You see, there was a Waiver lived, wanst upon a time, in Duleek here, hard by the gate, and
a very honest, industherous man he was, by all accounts. He had a wife, and of coorse they
had childhre, and small blame to them, and plenty of them, so that the poor little Waiver was
obleeged to work his fingers to the bone a'most, to get them the bit and the sup; but he did'nt
begridge that, for he was an industherous crayther, as I said before, and it was up airly and
down late wid him, and the loom was never standin' still. Well, it was one mornin' that his
wife called to him, and he sittin' very busy throwin' the shuttle, and, says she, "Come here,"
says she, "jewel, and ate the breakquest, now that it's ready." But he niver minded her, but
went on workin': So in a minit or two more says she, callin' out to him again, 'Arrah! lave
off slavin' yourself, my darlin', and ate your bit of breakquest while it is hot."

"Lave me alone," says he, and he dhruv the shuttle faster nor before.

Well, in a little time more, she goes over to him where he sot, and, says she, coaxin' him
like, "Thady, dear," says she, "the stirabout will be stone cowld, if you don't give over that
weary work and come and ate it at wanst."

"I'm busy with a patthern here that is brakin my heart." says the Waiver, "and intil I complate
it, and masther it intirely, I won't quit."

"Oh, think of the illigant stirabout, that'll be spilte intirely."

"To the divil with the stirabout," says he.

"God forgive you," says she, "for cursing your good breakquest."

"Aye, and you too," says he,

"Troth, you're as cross as two sticks this blessed morning, Thady," says the poor wife, "and
it's a heavy handful I have of you when you are craked in your temper; but stay there if you
like, and let your stirabout grow cowld, and not one o' me'll ax you agin," and with that off
she went, and the Waiver, sure enough. was mighty crabbed, and the more the wife spoke to him
the worse he got, which, you know, is only nathral.

Well, he left the loom at last, and wint over to the stirabout, and what would you think but
when he luked at it, it was as black as a crow; for you see it was the hoighth o' summer, and
the flies lit upon it to that degree, that the stirabout was fairly covered with ihem.

"Why then bad luck to your impidence," says the Waiver, "would no place sarve you but that?
and is it spiling my breakquest yez are, you dirty bastes?"

And with that, being altogether craked tempered at the time, he lifted his hand, and he made
one great slam at the dish of stirabout, and killed no less than threescore and tin flies at
the one blow. It was threescore and tin exactly, for he counted the carcasses one by one, and
laid them out on a clane plate, for to view them.

Well, he felt a powerful spirit risin' in him, when he seen the slaughter he done at one blow,
and with that he got as consaited as the very dickens, and not a stroke more work he'd do that
day, but out he wint, and was fractious and impidint to everyone he met, and was squarin' up
into their faces and sayin':

"Look at that fist! that's the fist that killed threescore and tin at one blow--whoo!"

With that all the neighbors thought he was cracked, and faith the poor wife herself thought
the same, when he kem home in the evenin', after shpendin' every rap he had in dhrink, and
swaggering about the place, and lookin' at his hand every minit.

"Indade an' your hand is very dirty, sure enough, Thady jewel," said the poor wife, and thrue
for her, for he rowled into a ditch comin' home, "you'd betther wash it, darlin'." "How dare
you say dirty to the greatest hand in Ireland," says he, going to bate her.

"Well, it's not dirty," says she.

"It's throwin' away my time I have been all my life," says he, "livin' with you at all, and
stuck at a loom nothin' but a poor Waiver, whin it's Saint George or the Dhraggin I ought to
be, which is two of the sivin champions of Christendom."

"Well, suppose they christened him twice as much," says the wife, "sure, what's that to us?"

"Don't put in your prate." says he, "you ignorant shtrap," says he, "you're vulgar, woman,--you're
vulgar--mighty vulgar; but I'll have nothin' more to say to any dirty snakin' trade agin--divil
a more waivin' I'll do."

"Oh, Thady dear, and what'll the childre do then!"

"Let them go and play marvels," said he.

"That would be but poor feedin' for them, Thady."

"They shan't want for feedin'," says he, "for it's a rich man I'll be soon, and a great man too."

"Usha, but I'm glad to hear it, darlin'--though I donna how it's to be, but I think you had
betther go to bed, Thady."'

"Don't talk to me of any bed, but the bed of glory, woman," says he-- lookin' mortial grand.

"Oh, God sind we'll all be in glory yet," says the wife, crassin' herself, "but go to sleep,
Thady, for this present."

"I'll sleep with the brave yit," says he.

"Indeed, and a brave sleep will do you a power o' good, my darlin'," says she.

"And it's I that will be the knight!" says he.

"All night, if you plaze, Thady," says she.

"None o' your coaxin'," says he, "I'm detarmined on it, and I'll set off immediately, and be
a knight arriant."

"A what?" says she.

"A knight arriant, woman."

"Lord be good to me, what's that?" says she.

"A knight arriant is a rale gintleman," says he, "goin' round the world for sport, with a swoord
by his side, takin' whatever he plazes for himself, and that's a knight arriant," says he.

Well sure enough, he wint about among his neighbors the next day, and he got an owld kettle
from one, and a saucepan from another, and he took them to the tailor, and he sewed him up
a suit of tin clothes like any knight arriant, and he borrowed a pot lid, and that he was very
partikler about, bekase it was his shield, and he wint to a friend o' his, a painther and glazier,
and made him paint on his shield in big letters.

"I'M THE MAN OF ALL MIN THAT KILLED THREESCORE AND TIN AT A BLOW."

"When the people sees that," says the Waiver to himself, "the sorra one will dar' for to come
near me."

And with that he found the wit to scour out the small iron pot for him for says he, "it will
make an illigant helmet--and when it was done, he put it on his head, and the wife said, "Oh
murther, Thady jewel, is it puttin' a great heavy iron pot on your head you are, by way iv a hat?"

"Sartainly," says he, "for a knight arriant should always have a weight on his brain."

"But, Thady dear," said the wife, "there's a hole in it, and it can't keep out the weather."

"It will be the cooler," says he, puttin' it on him,--"besides, if I don't like it, it is aisy
to stop it up with a wisht o' straw, or the like o' that."

"The three legs of it looks mighty quare, stickin up," says she.

"Every helmet has a spike stickin' out o' the top of it," says the Waiver, "and if mine has
three, it is only the grandther it is"

"Well," says the wife, getting bitther at last, "all I can say is, it isn't the first sheep's
head was dhressed in it."

"Your sarvent ma'am," says he; and off he set.

Well, he was in want of a horse, and so he wint to a field hard by, where the miller's horse
was grazin' that used to carry the ground corn around the counthry.

"This is the idintical horse for me," says the Waiver, "he is used to carryin' flour and male;
and what am I but the flower o' shovelry in a coat of mail; so that the horse won't be put
out of his way in the laste."

But as he was ridin' him out of the field, who should see him but the miller.

"Is it stalin' my horse, you are, honest man?" says the miller.

"No," says the Waiver, "I am only goin, to exercise him," says he, "in the cool o' the evenin',
it will be good for his health."

"Thank you kindly," said the miller, "but lave him where he is, and you'll obleege me."

"I can't afford it," says the Waiver, running his horse at the ditch.

"Bad luck to your impidence," says the miller. "you've as much tin about you as a thravelin'
tink but youv'e more brass. Come back here, you vagabone," says he.

But he was late;--away galloped the Waiver, and tuk the road to Dublin, for he thought the
best thing he could do was to go to the King o' Dublin (for Dublin was a grate place then,
and had a king iv its own), and he thought maybe the King o' Dublin would give him work. Well,
he was four days goin' to Dublin, for the baste was not the best, and the roads worse, not
all as one was now; but there was no turnpike then, glory be to God! whin he got to Dublin
he wint shtraight to the palace, and whin he got into the coort yard, he let his horse go and
graze about the place, for the grass was growin' out betune the stones: everythin' was flourishin'
thin in Dublin, you see.

Well, the king was lookin' out in his dhrawin' room, for divarshun, whin the Waiver came in,
but the Waiver purtended not to see him, and he wint over to a stone sait under the windy--for
you see there was stone sates all round about the place for the accommodation of the people,
for the king was a dacent obleegin' man,--well, as I said, the Waiver wint over and lay down
on one of the sates, just undher the king's windy, and purtended to go asleep: but he tuk care
to turn out the front of his shield that had the letthers an it--well, my dear, with that the
king calls out to wan of the lords of his coort that was shtandin' behind him, howldin' up
the skirt iv his coat, accordin' to raison, and says he:

"Look here," says he, "what do you think of a vagabone like that, comin' under my very to nose
go to sleep? It's thrue I'm a very good king," says he, "and I 'commodate the people by having
sates for them to sit down and enjoy the raycreation and contimplation of seein' me here lookin'
out o' my drawing room windy for divarsion; but that is no raison they're to make a hotel iv
the place, and come and sleep here. Who is it at all?" says the king.

"Not a one o' me knows, plaze your majesty."

"I think he must be a furriner," says the king, "bekase his dress is outlandish."

"And doesn't know manners, more betoken," says the lord.

"I'll go and circumspect him myself," says the king,--"folly me," says he to the lord, waivin'
his hand at the same time in the most dignacious mannar.

Down he wint accordainly, followed by the lord, and whin he wint over to where the Waiver was
lyin', sure the first thing he seen was his shield with the big letthers an it, and with that
says he to the lord "by dad," says he, "this is the very man I want."

"For what, plaze your majesty?" says the lord.

"To kill that vagabone dhraggin'," says the king.

"Sure, do you think he could kill him," says the lord, "whin all the stoutest lords in the
land wasn't aquil to it, but never kem back, and was ate up alive by the cruel desaiver."

"Sure, don't you see there," says the king pointin' at the shield, "that he killed threescore
and tin at one blow, and the man that done that I think is a match for anything."

So with that he went over to the Waiver and shook him by the shoulder for to wake him, and
the Waiver rubbed his eyes as if just wakened, and the king says to him: "God save you," says he.

"God save you kindly," says the Waiver, purtendin' he was quite unknowst who he was spakin to.

"Do you know who I am?" says the king, "that you make so free, good man."

"No indade," says the waiver, "you have the advantage of me."

"To be sure I have," says the king, mighty high; "sure, aint I the king o' Dublin," says he.

The Waiver dropped down on his two knees forninst the king, and says he, "I beg God's pardon
and yours for the liberty I tuk, plaze your holiness I hope you'll excuse it."

"No offence," says the king, "get up, good man. And what brings you here," says he.

"I'm in want of work, plaze your rivirence," says the Waiver.

"Well, suppose I give you work?" says the king.

"I'll be proud to sarve you, my lord," says the Waiver.

"Very well," says the king, "you killed threescore and tin at one blow, I undershtan'," says
the king.

"Yis," says the Waiver, "that was the last thrifle o' work I done, and I'm afeard my hand'll
go out o' practice if I don't get some job to do, at wanst."

"You shall have a job to do immidiately," says the king. "It's not threescore and tin or any
fine thing like that, it is only a blaguard dhraggin, that is disturbin' the counthry and ruinating
my tinanthry wid aitin' their powlthry, and I'm lost for want of eggs," says the king.

"Troth, thin plaze your worship," says the waiver, "you look as yellow as if you'd swallowed
twelve yolks this minit."

"Well, I want this dhraggin to be killed," says the king. "It will be no throuble in life to
you; and I am only sorry that it isn't betther worth your while, for he isn't worth fearin'
at all; only I must tell you that he lives in the county Galway, in the middle of a bog, and
he has an advantage in that."

"Oh, I don't value it in the laste," says the Waiver, "for the last three-score and tin I killed
was in a soft place."

"When will you undhertake the job, then?" says the king.

"Let me at him at wanst," says the Waiver.

"That is what I like," says the king, "you're the very man for my money," says he.

"Talkin' of money," says the waiver, "by the same token I'll want a thrifle o' change from
you for my thravellin' charges."

"As much as you plaze," says the king, and with the word, he brought him into his closet, where
there was an owld stockin' in an owld chest, burstin' wid golden guineas.

"Take as many as you plaze," says the king, and sure enough, my dear, the little waiver stuffed
his tin clothes as full as they could howld with them.

"Now I'm ready for the road," says the waiver.

"Very well," says the king; "but you must have a fresh horse," says he.

"With all my heart," says the waiver, who thought he might as well exchange the miller's owld
garron for a betther.

And maybe its wondthering you are, that the Waiver would think of goin' to fight the dhraggin
afther what he heerd about him, whin he was purtendin' to be asleep; but he had no sitch notion,
all he intended was to fob the goold; and ride back to Duleek with his gains and a good horse.
But you see, 'cute as the Waiver was, the king was 'cuter still; for these high quolity, you
see, is great desaivers; and so the horse the Waiver was put an was learned an purpose, and,
sure, the minit he was mounted, away powdhered the horse, and the divil a toe he'd go but right
down to Galway.

Well, for four days he was goin' ever more, antil at last the Waiver seen a crowd o' people
runnin' as if owld Nick was at their heels, and they shoutin' a thousand murdhers, and cryin'
"The dhraggin, the dhraggin!" and he couldn't stop the horse nor make him turn back, but away
he pelted right forninst the terrible baste that was comin' up to him, and there was the most
nefarious smell o' sulphur, savin' your presence, enough to knock you down; and, faith, the
Waiver seen he had no time to lose, and so he threw himself off the horse, and made to a three
that was growin' nigh hand, and away he clambered up into it as nimble as a cat; and not a
minit had he to spare, for the dhraggin kem up in a powerful rage, and he devoured the horse,
body and bones, in less than no time; and thin he began to sniffle and scent about for the
Waiver, and at last he clapt his eye on him, where he was, up in the three, and says he:

"In troth you might as well come down out o' that," says he, "for I'll have you as sure as
eggs is mate."

"Divil a foot I'll go down," says the Waiver.

"Sorra care I care," says the dhraggin, "for you're as good as ready money in my pocket this
minit; for I'll lie undher this tree" says he, "and sooner or later you must fall to my share."

And sure enough he sot down, and began to pick his teeth with his tail, afther the heavy breakquest
he made that mornin' (for he ate a whole village, let alone a horse) and he got dhrowsy at
last, and fell asleep; but before he wint to sleep, he wound himself all round about the three,
all as one as a lady windin' ribbon round her finger, so that the waiver could not escape.

Well, as soon as the Waiver knew he was dead asleep, by the snorin' of him--and every snore
he get out of him was like a clap o' thunder--that minit the Waiver began to creep down the
three as cautious as a fox, and he was very nigh hand the bottom, whin bad cess to it, a thievin'
branch he was dipindin' an bruk, and down he fell right a top of the dhraggin: but if he did
good luck was an his side, for where should he fall but with his two legs right acrass the
draggin's neck, and my jew'l, he laid howlt o' the baste's ears, and there he kept his grip,
for the dhraggin wakened and endayvored for to bite him, but, you see, by raison the Waiver
was behind his ears, he could not come at him, and with that, he endayvored for to shake him
off; but the divil a stir could he stir the waiver; and though he shuk all the scales in his
body, he cud not turn the scale agin the Waiver.

"By the hokey, this is too bad, intirely," says the dhraggin; "but if you won't let go," says
he, "by the powers o' wild fire, I'll give you a ride that'll astonish your sivin small sinses,
my boy;" and with that, away he flew like mad, and where do you think did he fly? by dad, he
flew straight for Dublin, divil a less. But the Waiver bein' an his neck was a great disthress
to him, and he would rather have had him an inside passenger; but anyway he flew and he flew
till he kem slap up agin the palace of the king, or bein' blind with the rage he never seen
it, and he knocked his brains out; that is, the small trifle he had, and down he fell spacheless.
An' you see, good luck would have it, that the king o' Dublin was lookin' out in his dhrawin
room windy for divarshun, that day also, and whin he seen the Waiver ridin' an the fiery dhraggin
(for he was blazin' like a tar barrel) he called out to his coortyers to come and see the show.

"By the powdhers of war here comes the knight arriant," says the king "riding the dhraggin
that's all a fire, and if he gets into the palace yis must be ready with the fire ingines [Footnote:
Showing the antiquity of these machines.] says he" for to put him out.

But whin they seen the dhraggin fall outside, they all run down stairs and scampered into the
palace yard for to circumspect the curiosity; and by the tune they got down, the Waiver had
got off the dhraggin's neck, and, running up to the king, says he,

"Plaze your holiness," says he, "I did not think myself worthy of killin' this facetious baste,
so I brought him to yourself for to do him the honor of decripitation by your own royal five
fingers. But I tamed him first, before I allowed him the liberty for to dar' to appear in your
royal prisance, and you'll oblige me if you'll just make your mark upon the onruly baste's neck."

And with that the king, sure enough, drew out his swoord and took the head off the dirty brute,
as clane as a new pin. Well, there was great rejoicin' in the coort that the dhraggin was killed,
and says the king to the little Waiver, says he.

"You are a knight arriant as it is so it would be no use for to knight you over agin; but I
will make you a lord," says he.

"Oh Lord!" says the Waiver, thunderstruck like at his own good luck.

"I will," says the king, "and as you're the first man I ever heerd tell of that rode a dhraggin,
you shall be called Lord Mount Dhraggin," says he.

"And where's my estates? plaze your holiness," says the Waiver, who always had a sharp look
out after the main chance.

"Oh, I didn't forget that," says the king, "It's my royal pleasure to provide well for you,
and for that raison I make you a present of all the dhraggins in the world, and give you power
over thim from this out," says he.

"Is that all?" says the Waiver.

"All?" says the king, "why you ongrateful little vagabone, was the like ever given to any man
before?"

"I believe not indeed," says the Waiver: "many thanks to your Majesty."

"But that is not all I do for you," says the king; "I'll give you my daughter too in marriage,"
says he.

Now you see that was nothin' more than what he promised the Waiver in his first promise; for
by all accounts the king's daughter was the greatest dhraggin ever was seen, and had the divil's
own tongue, and a beard a yard long, which she purtinded was put an her by way of a penance,
by Father Mulcahy, her confissor; but it was well known was in the family for ages, and no
wondher it was so long, by raison of that same.

SAMUEL LOVER.

THE END.

