  "My lord now quits his venerable seat,
    The six clerk on his padlock turns the key,
  From business hurries to his snug retreat,
    And leaves vacation and the town to me."

  "Now all is hush'd--asleep the eye of care--
    And Lincoln's Inn a solemn stillness holds,
  Save where the porter whistles o'er the square,
    Or our dog barks, or basket-woman scolds:"

  "Save that from yonder pump and dusty stair
    The moping shoe-black and the laundrymaid
  Complain of such as from the town repair,
    And leave their little quarterage unpaid."

H. B. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

THE RIVER NIGER.

A Second Edition of the Literary Gazette of Saturday last enables us to lay before our readers
the following important discovery:--

"We have the gratification to state, that the great question respecting the course of the Niger,
which has puzzled geography and literature for many centuries, has at last been determined
by British courage and perseverance. We have just received the annexed letter from our esteemed
and intelligent friend, Mr. Fisher, surgeon of the Atholl, well known to the world for his
own interesting voyages and travels; and we lose no time in communicating the important information
to the public, through the pages of the Literary Gazette."

    "His Majesty's Ship Atholl, at Sea, Bight of Biafra, Feb. 2, 1831."

"Dear Sir,--I take the opportunity of writing you a few lines, by a vessel that we have just
now met on her way to England. My object in writing in this hasty manner is to acquaint you
that the grand geographical problem respecting the termination of the Niger is at length solved."

"The Landers, after having reached Youri, embarked in a canoe on the Niger, or, as it is called
there, the Quarra, and came down the stream until they reached the sea, in the Bight of Biafra.
The branch by which they came to the coast is called the Nun, or Brasse River, being the first
river to the eastward of Cape Formosa. On their way down the river they were attacked by the
Hibboos (a fierce nation that inhabit its banks), and made prisoners, or rather captives; but
the King of Brasse happening to be in that country buying slaves, got them released, by giving
the price of six slaves for each of them. In the scuffle that ensued at the time they were
taken, one of them lost his journal."

"Whilst at Youri they got the Prayerbook that belonged to Mr. Anderson, the brother-in-law
and fellow-traveller of the celebrated Mungo Park. They were upwards of a month at Fernando
Po, whence they embarked, about ten days ago, in an English merchant-vessel bound to Rio Janeiro,
on their way to England. From their taking that circuitous route, I am in hopes that this will
reach you before they arrive, by which you will probably have it in your power to give the
first news of this important discovery."

"I do not recollect of any thing else to acquaint you with that is worthy of notice; and even
if I did, I have no time to mention it, as the boat by which I send this (to the vessel) is
just this moment ordered away."

"I must therefore bid you adieu for the present; and believe me, dear sir, yours very sincerely."

"ALEXANDER FISHER."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH

    On a Porter who died suddenly under a load.

  Pack'd up within these dark abodes,
  Lies one, in life inur'd to loads,
  Which oft he carried 'tis well known,
  Till Death pass'd by and threw him down;
  When he that carried loads before,
  Became a load which others bore
  To this his inn--where, as they say,
  They leave him till another day.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL OATHS.

In former times sovereign princes had their favourite oaths, which they made use of on all
occasions when their feelings or passions were excited. The oaths of the English monarchs are
on record, and a list of them might easily be made, by having recourse to the ancient writers
of our history, from the conquest to the reign of Elizabeth, who did not scruple, pia regina,
et bona mater, of the Church of England as she was, to swear by "God's wounds," an oath issuing
at this time frequently from vulgar mouths, but softened down to "zounds."

Brantome, who lived in the court of Francis the First, contemporary with Henry the Eighth of
England, has recorded the oaths of four succeeding monarchs immediately preceding his time.
He tells us that Louis the Eleventh swore by "God's Easter;" Charles the Eighth, by "God's
light;" Louis the Twelfth used an oath, still common among the French rabble, "The Devil take
me;" but the oath of Francis the First was polished enough for the present day: it was, "On
the word of a gentleman."

K----ll, Norfolk.