And here let one word be said against the arguments of those well-meaning and patriotic men
who attempt to prove that certain acts of the Government have been injudicious and unwise--such,
for example, as the suspension of the habeas corpus, the alleged illegal arrests, and the emancipation
policy. It is not the purpose of this paper to enter into additional argument to sustain this
opinion or to disprove it. But in justice to the Government--simply because it is a Government--let
it not be forgotten that when events heretofore unforeseen and unprepared for are throwing
our vast nation into incalculable confusion, and when it becomes absolutely imperative that
the head of the Government must act decisively and according to the promptness of his honest
judgment, and when we know equally well that that judgment, be it what it may, cannot accord
with the various and diverse opinions of all men, then it behooves his countrymen, if not to
acquiesce in, to support whatever that honest judgment may decide to be best for the emergency.
No doubt, errors have been made, but they are errors inconceivably less in their results than
would be the unpardonable sin of the people, should they, because differing in opinion, weaken
the hands and confuse the purposes of the powers that be. With secret and treacherous foes
in our very midst, hidden behind the masks of a painted loyalty, the President, after deep
and earnest consultation and reflection, deemed it his duty to authorize arrests under circumstances
which he solemnly believed were the best adapted to arrest the evil, though, by so doing, many
good and innocent men might temporarily suffer with the bad. So too with regard to the proclamation
of freedom--be the step wise or unwise, and there is by no means a unity of sentiment on this
head--the President conceived it to be the duty of his office--a duty which never entered into
his plans or intentions until the war had increased to gigantic and threatening proportions--to
level a blow at what he and millions of his countrymen believe to be the stronghold of the
enemy, viz., that system of human servitude which nourished the body politic and social now
standing in armed and fearful resistance to the Constitution and the laws. It matters not,
so far as opinion goes, whether the step was wise or foolish, if the executive head deemed
it wise. Nor was it a hasty or spasmodic movement on his part. Months were devoted to its consideration,
and every argument was patiently and candidly listened to from all the representatives of political
theory for and against. Even then no hasty step was taken; but, on the contrary, our deluded
countrymen in arms against us were forewarned, and earnestly, respectfully advised and entreated
to take that step in behalf of Union and peace, which would leave their institution as it had
existed. Nay, more: terms whereby no personal inconvenience or pecuniary loss to them would
be involved if they would but be simply loyal to the Government, were liberally offered them,
with three months for their consideration. Let those of us who, notwithstanding these ameliorating
circumstances, doubt the good policy of the act, remember that they of the South, our open
foes, invited the measures. Their leaders acknowledged and their press boasted that the Southern
army never could be overcome--if for no other reason, for this reason, that while the army
of the North was composed of the bone and muscle of the great working classes, drawn away from
the fields of labor and enterprise, which must necessarily, in their opinion, languish from
this absence, the Confederate army was composed of 'citizens' and property owners (to wit,
slaveholders), whose absence from their plantations in no way interfered with the growth of
their cotton, sugar, corn, and rice, from which sources of wealth and nourishment they could
continue to draw the sinews of war. They went farther than this, and acted upon their declaration
by employing their surplus slave labor in the work of intrenching their fortifications, serving
their army, and finally fighting in their army.

Upon this basis of slave labor they asserted their omnipotence in war and ability to continue
the struggle without limit of time. The subsidized press of England supported this theory,
and declared that with such advantages it was idle for the Federal Government to maintain a
struggle in the face of such belligerent advantages! Then, and not till then, were the eyes
of the President open to a fact which none but the political blind man could fail to observe,
and then it was that not only the President, but a very large proportion of our countrymen,
heretofore strictly conservative men, felt that the time had come when further forbearance
would be suicidal. Although many doubted and still doubt if slavery was the cause of the rebellion,
very many were forced to the conclusion that what our enemies themselves admitted to be the
strength of the rebellion was indeed such, and that the time had arrived to avail themselves
of that military necessity which authorizes the Government to adopt such measures as may be
deemed the most fitting for crushing rebellion and restoring our constitutional liberty. Let
us think, then, as we please upon the judiciousness of the proclamation--that it was uttered
with forethought, calmness, and with a full sense of the responsibility of the President to
his God and his country, none of us can deny. With this we should be satisfied. We have but
one duty before us, then, as a government and a people--and that is, an earnest, devoted prosecution
of this war for the integrity of our common country. In the untrammelled hands of that Government
let us leave its prosecution. We have but one duty before us as individuals, and that is to
support the existing Government with our individual might. Let the cry be loud and long, as,
thank Heaven, it still is, 'On with the war,' not for war's sake, but for the sake of that
peace, which only war, humanely and vigorously conducted, can achieve.

