Let the people of the Eastern Church stick to their Christian ideal of saintliness. Their interpretation
of the Christian spirit may be the best and truest. Yet the ideal must become flesh. Let them
not be proud of their not having pride, and exclusive because God chose them to understand
the bottomless deepness of the esoteric Christianity. By pride towards the proud and by exclusiveness
they may spoil and darken their ideals and remain in the dark.

Let all the Churches feel their unity in the ideal spirit of saintliness. But if that is difficult
for them, let them first feel their unity in sinfulness, in committed sins and crimes, in their
nakedness and poverty. Just to start with, this first step seems absolutely necessary. Never
any great saint became saintly unless he first thought himself equal in impurity and sinfulness
with all other human beings. The Churches must go the way of the saints. Their way is the only
infallible one.

             THE ONLY NECESSARY EXCLUSIVENESS OF THE CHURCH

When you deeply search in history about the causes of the strength of the primitive Church
and of the weakness and decay of the modern Church, you will come to a very clear and simple
conclusion.

1. The primitive Church was inclusive as to its forms, but exclusive as to its spirit.

2. The modern Church has been exclusive as to its forms, but inclusive as to its spirit.

The primitive Church was very puritanic concerning the Christian spirit. She was not particular
as to the vessels in which to pour the new wine, but she was extremely particular as to the
wine itself. She borrowed the vessels in Judæa, Alexandria, Athens, Rome, but she never borrowed
wine. The Christian spirit and the pagan spirit were just like two opposite poles, like white
and black, or day and night. The Church was conscious of it, and jealously watchful that no
drop of any foreign spirit should be mixed with the precious spirit of the New Gospel. There
existed no thought of compromise, and no idea of inclusiveness whatever regarding the spirit.
The terrific conflict of Christianity and Paganism through centuries sprang from the irreconcilability
of two different spirits. Were the Church as inclusive as to the spirit as she was to forms,
doctrines, customs and worships, conflicts never would arise--but then neither would Christianity
arise.

The modern Church is particular as to its institutions, but not particular at all as to its
spirit. The Roman Emperors never would persecute the modern Church, for they would easily recognise
their own spirit included in her. Nor would the Pharaohs from Egypt persecute modern Christianity.
Nor would Areopagus or Akropolis be puzzled so much had St Paul preached to them the modern
European Christianity with its complicated spirit of all kinds of compromises with Heaven and
Hell, compromise with the State, Plutocracy, Nationalism, Imperialism, Conquest, War, Diplomacy,
Secular Philosophy, Secular Science, Agnostic Parliaments, Tribal Chauvinism, Education, Officialism,
Bureaucracy, etc., etc. All these things have their own spirit, and every such spirit is partly
or wholly included in the spirit of the Church, i.e. of modern Christianity. None of the Christian
Churches of our time makes an exception as to this inclusiveness of all kinds of spirits. Even
Protestantism, which claims the simplicity of its Christian ritual and administration, represents
a lamentable mosaic of spirits gathered from all the pagan corners of secular Europe and mixed
up with the Christian wine in the same barrel.

The Church of the East excommunicated thousands of those who crossed themselves with two fingers
instead of using three fingers. The Church of the West burnt thousands of those who did not
recognise the papal organisation of the Church as the only ark of salvation. Yet there is rarely
to be found in the Church annals an excommunication on the ground of chauvinism or brutal egoism.
No one of the world conquerors--neither Napoleon nor Kaiser William--have been excommunicated
by the Church. It signifies an extreme decadence of the Church. And this decadence penetrates
and dominates our own time. Speaking on the reunion of the Churches the peoples of the East
are anxious to know--not whether the Church of the West has preserved the unmixed Christian
spirit in its integrity, but whether this Church still keeps Filioque as a dogma, and whether
she has ikons, and whether she allows eggs and milk in Lent. And the people of the West are
anxious to know whether the Eastern Church has a screen quite different from their own screen
at the altar, and whether she has been always tenaciously exclusive in teaching, worship and
organisation. Who of us and of you asks about the integrity of the Christian spirit? If St
Paul were amongst us he would ridicule our controversies on Filioque and all the trifles concerning
Church organisation and the external expressions of Christianity. He would ask: What happened
with the spirit he preached? What happened with this spirit which excommunicated de facto the
Jewish narrow Patriotism and the Roman Imperialism? Have we still this exclusive spirit which
moved the world effecting the greatest revolution in History? I am sure he would have to repeat
with good reasons to every Church and to everyone of us: "If any man have not the Spirit of
Christ, he is none of His."

Well, we must come again to this source of Christian strength and greatness, which is Christ's
spirit. A new revival, yea, regeneration of Christianity, could be possible only in a united
Christian Church; and the union of the Church is possible only upon the ground of the primitive
Church, which was inclusive in teaching, worship and organisation, but exclusive in spirit.
On the day when we all exclude from ourselves the Jewish and Greek and Roman spirit, and retain
only the pure Christian spirit, we shall be at once ready to include each other's Church into
one body, into one Christianity. We must be clear about it, and we must confess that the divisions
of the church are due to the invasion of a foreign spirit, an unclean spirit, into the Church.
When the Church cleanses herself from this foreign unclean spirit she will be victorious over
herself, and from this victory to the ultimate victory of Christianity over our planet will
be a very short distance.

                          ECCLESIA TRIUMPHANS

How can the church get her past strength again and triumph over the evil inside and outside
her walls?

If she were united she could get it by waiting for the ruin of Europe--i.e. of a house which
is divided in itself--which is not very far off. But she the Church--is divided too. She is
fighting with and for the European parties, and against herself. Consequently, in waiting for
the ruin of Europe she is waiting for her own ruin. Therefore she must make up her mind lest
it is too late. Horribile dictu--she must start a dramatic movement in order to get her soul back.

First of all she must become again a heresy towards Europe and European secular, antidivine
civilisation, just as she was a heresy towards the theocratic Israel and semi-theocratic Greece
and Rome. Theoretically, she must stick to Theocracy, historically, to Christocracy, and practically
to Sanctocracy. She must loose herself from all the chains binding her either to the chariot
of any dynasty or of any oligarch or president, or whatever political denomination it may be,
and insist upon the Holy Wisdom to lead humanity. It ought to be absolutely indifferent to
the Church what political denomination, or social creed, or institutional shape a human society
shall have as long as this is founded upon any other ideal but saintliness. The Church ought
to know only two denominations--politics and social life, inter-human as well as international
and inter racial-racial relations in trade and business, in education and family life--i.e.
saintliness and unsaintliness. If you ask what saintliness ought to mean, Christianity has
not to argue but to show you the saintliness in the flesh. Christ the saintly Lord, St Paul
and St John, Polycarp and Leo, Patrick and Francis, Sergius and Zosim, St Theresa and hundreds
of other saints. And if somebody thinks still that a few thousands of Christian saints are
not a sufficient argument to show that saintliness is practicable, then the Church has still
not to give her ideal up and to take as her ideal thousands of great and small Napoleons and
Bismarcks, and Goethes and Spencers, or Medics and Cromwells or Kaisers and Kings--no, in the
latter case it would be much nicer for the Church to point out the saintly men outside of Christian
walls, like St Hermes and St Pythagoras, or St Krishna and St Buddha, or St Lao-Tse and St
Confucius, or St Zoroaster and St Abu-Bekr. Better even is unbaptised saintliness than baptised
earthliness.

Saintliness includes goodness and sacrifice, and excludes all the earthly impure spirits of
selfishness, pride, quarrels and conquests. Therefore, when the Church returns to her fundamental
ideal, she will return to her elementary simplicity in which she was so powerful as to move
mountains and empires and hearts at the beginning of her history. That is what the world needs
now just as much as it needs air and light, i.e. an elementary spiritual power by which it
could be moved, cleared up, purified and brought out of its chaos to a solid and beautiful
construction.

                       HOLY CHURCH IN HOLY EUROPE

Europe has been eclipsed because her Church--her soul--has been eclipsed; the Church has been
eclipsed because her principal ideal has been eclipsed. The principal ideal of the Church is
saintliness. This ideal, plunged down into darkness like a sun into ashes, must come out again
to illuminate the Church and Europe. Europe has tried all the ways but the way of the Church,
the European Church has tried all the ways but the way of Christ. Well, then, Europe must try
the only way left, which is saintliness. The Church must give an example to Europe.

Europe has been materialistic, heroic, scientific, imperialistic, technical, secular. At last
she has to be holy. Whatever she has been, she has been unhappy and restless, and brutal and
criminal, unjust and gluttonous. Soldiers and traders, despots and robbers, popes and kings,
gluttons and harlots, have ruled Europe, but not yet the saints, the holy wizards. The Church's
duty has been to provide Europe with such holy wizards. She has failed because she has been
obscured by Europe, as a fine soul often is obscured by a heavy and greedy body. The body,
one thought, the soul, another, until their thought became one and the same, i.e. the bodily
thought. Now, after a bitter experience, the soul must come to its rights. Europe and Europe's
Church have not henceforth to think two different thoughts, but one and the same, and this
one thought has not to be a bodily one but a spiritual one. The aim of the Church as well as
of Europe has to be God, Christ, saintliness. If this thing is given to the Church and Europe,
everything else will be easily given. A Holy Church in Holy Europe!

A holy Europe only can be a missionary Europe. No other mission has Europe on other continents
but a Christian one. It was an illusion to speak about Europe's mission in the wide world without
Christ. Well, but only a Christlike people can be a missionary of Christ. How could an unholy
Europe preach the Holy One?

Do you think that the Arabs, who gave Europe knowledge, are expecting from Europe knowledge?
No, they expect Europe's goodwill.

Or do you think that India, whose history is a history of saints, is anxious to accept German
materialistic science, individual philosophy, and a destructive and shallow theology? No, they
expect from Europe more saintliness than they have had in their history. And that is just very
difficult for Europe to give them.

Or do you think that Chino-Japanese civilisation has anything worth mentioning to borrow from
Europe but Christian ideals? No, nothing that could make them happier than they have been.

Well then, let Europe kill her pride and self-conceit in this war and become humble and meek.
The Church ought to give an example to secular Europe: an example of humility, goodness, sacrifice--saintliness.

But which of the Churches ought to give this example for the salvation of Europe and of the
world? Yours, if you like. Why not just your Anglican Church? But whichever undertakes to lead
the way will be the most glorious Church. For she will lead the whole Church and through the
Church Europe and through Europe the whole world to holiness and victory, to God and His Kingdom.