"We towed down to the Hook and out over the bar, and then put the muslin on to her with a fine
breeze from sou'west, and I supposes there weren't a happier man in the world than old Wiggins
when he discharged the pilot and steamer and took charge.

"'I've giv' 'em the slip,' says he to the mate. 'I've giv' 'em the slip; they thought I were
too old for to go to sea, but I'll show 'em thar's plenty of life into me yet; git out all
the starboard stunsails and see to it that she's kep' a-movin' night and day, for in sixteen
days I expects to walk the pierhead in Liverpool.' Well, sure enough, a-movin' she were kep',
and I never seen harder carryin's on than I seen that passage; but we never lost a stitch of
canvas, 'cause the old man not only knowed how to carry it, but he knowed how to take it off
of her when it be to come off, and in a gale of wind he'd 'liven up wonderful, whereas in light
weather he'd show his age. It were funny for to see him takin' the sun and tryin' to read her
off, which he weren't able for to do, not by no means.

"'What d'ye stand on?' he'd say to the mate arter screwin' his eye to the glass and tryin'
to make it out; and when the mate would tell him, he'd say, 'I believe that agrees with me;
just take a squint at my instrument; my eyesight ain't just as good as it used for to be, and
I don't quite make it out.' Then the mate would read him off his instrument, and arter he'd
made it eight bells he'd go down and work it up and prick her off. The fourteenth day out we
made the light on Fastnet Rock, off Cape Clear, and went bowlin' along the coast, passin' Tuskar
next day, and swingin' her off up channel and round Hollyhead past the Skerries and takin'
a pilot off P'int Lynas. It were a sight worth seein' for to watch the old man handle her in
takin' a pilot. The wind were fresh from west-nor'west, and we passed the Skerries with all
three royals set and lower topmast and to'gallan' stunsails on the port side. As soon as ever
we passed the rocks we kep' off for Lynas, and as soon as the stunsails got by the lee they
was hauled in. Then with the wind about two p'ints on the starboard quarter we went bilin'
along for the boat which we seen standin' off shore just to the east'ard of the P'int. There
were a pretty bubble of a sea on, and afore we gits to him he goes about standin' in to the
bay and givin' sheet. We follers along arter him, goin' two feet to his one, still carryin'
all three royals, with hands at halliards and clewlines. Just afore we gits to him the old
man sings out, 'Clew up the royals, haul down the flyin' jib, haul up the crochick and mainsail.'
By this time we was well under the land and in smooth water. Keepin' his eye onto the pilot-boat,
which were a couple of p'ints onto our weather bow, the old man no sooner seen her come to
than he sings out, 'Hard up the helm!' And as we swung off afore the wind we runned up the
foresail and laid the head-yards square; then mannin' the port main braces we let the to'gallan'
yards run down on the caps and let her come to ag'in, and so nicely had the old man calculated
the distance that as she come to the wind she shot up alongside of the pilot-boat, stoppin'
just abreast of her and not over twenty foot away.

"'That was well done, Mr. Mate,' said the pilot, as he come over the side; 'some of these galoots
makes us chase 'em half a day afore we can board 'em. Fill away the head-yards, put your helm
up, run up the flyin' jib, brail up the spanker check in the arter yards,' and as she swung
off he comes aft to the wheel where I was a-steerin', and says, 'Keep her east-sou'east, my
man; giv' us a chew of terbacker.' We soon had the muslin piled onto her ag'in, and sure enough,
as old Wiggins had said, the sixteenth day out he walked the pierhead in Liverpool.

"I understood as old Wiggins was made a good deal on in Liverpool as bein' the oldest skipper
that had ever come there, and the Board of Trade and what not giv' him dinners, and so on--which,
considerin' his age, he oughtn't to have took--and by other skippers at the hotel he were much
honored, bein' giv' the head of the table and treated with great deference--and all this dinin'
and winin' and feastin' weren't no good to him--and, arter a stay of three weeks, when we ag'in
went down the river with full complement of passengers and a good freight, he weren't not by
no means as well as when we went in. We had, too, a tough time down channel, a stiff sou'wester,
with rain and thick weather, and it told onto the old man, so that when arter bein' out a week
we at last got clear of Tuskar and had the ocean open, the relief from the strain fetched him,
and he were took down sick.

"Whether it were to punish him for comin' to sea at his time of life or not I don't know; but
from this on we did have the devil's own weather. Gale after gale from the west'ard, shiftin'
constant from sou'west to nor'west, and tryin' constant to see from which quarter it could
blow the hardest.

"The mate were a plucky and a able young feller, by the name of Graham, and he kep' her a-dancin'
as well as the old man would have done. Constant she had everythin' put to her that she'd bear,
and always were she kep' on the tack where she'd make the most westin', and so she struggled
along till we was as far as thirty degrees west, we bein' thirty days out and not yet half
way. Every day we asked the steward how old Wiggins were a-gittin' on, and every day he'd shake
his head and say 'no better;' and it come to be understood, fore and aft, that it were as much
as a toss-up if the old man ever smelled grass ag'in. We had a little let-up arter gittin'
into the thirties, and for a day or so had fine weather and a chance to dry our dunnage. Fine
days, however, is scarce in January on that herrin' pond--I'll take just another; mentionin'
herrin's makes me dry--and when you gits 'em they are most always weather-breeders. I went
up on to the main royal yard when our side come up at 8 o'clock one mornin' for to sew on the
leather on the parral, and it were like a day in May. Afore I got the leather sewed on I be
to look out for myself, 'cause they was goin' to clew up the sail, and from that time on it
breezed on from the sou'ard, keepin' us constantly takin' the sail off of her, till at four
bells we was under double-reefed topsails and reefed courses, with jib, crochick, and spanker
stowed. We hammered away under this, carryin' on very heavy, 'cause she were headin' west-nor'west,
which were a good course, till eight bells in the arternoon watch, when the sea gittin' up
so tremendiously we had to furl the reefed mainsail and mizzen topsail and close reef the fore
and main topsails.

"You'd think that were snug enough for any ship, now, wouldn't you? and sartin it are; no ship
ever ought to have less canvas than this, till it blows away, 'cause she's safer with it onto
her than with it off, the reefed foresail supportin' the yard. Well, we'd had gales and gales,
but this here gale beat anythin' that I'd ever seen, and at seven bells in the first night
watch, with a tremendious surge, the weather leech rope of the foresail giv' way, and in a
jiffy away went the foreyard in the slings--the foresail and fore-topsail goin' into ribbons.
All hands, of course, was busy for'ard, tryin' for to git some of this wreck stuff tranquillized,
when all of a suddint from the poop come the old man's voice, full and round and clear, and
not shrill and pipin' as we'd heerd it last, and above all the roarin' of the gale and the
din of the slattin' canvas, we heerd him shout: 'Stations for wearin' ship. We must git her
head round to the sou'ard,' he bawled in the ear of the mate, as Mr. Graham struggled aft;
'the shift will come in less than half a hour, and its goin' to be tremendious; if it catches
us aback it won't leave a stick into her; but it ain't a-goin' to catch us, sir; I've brung
her through many and many a time like this. I'll bring her through this one, and then you must
do the rest. Now, then,' says he, 'stand by, put your helm just a few spokes a-weather, don't
check her at all with the rudder, slack a foot or two of the lee braces and check in to wind'ard;
keep your eye constant on that sail, Mr. Clark'--that were the second mate--'and don't let
it shake; keep it good full and give her away; lay the crochick yard square, and come up to
the main-braces, all of you.' And so, gently, as if she'd been a sick child, he coaxed her
to go off, and she begin to gather way. As soon as she done so the helm were put hard up, and
the main-yard rounded in, just keepin' the topsail alift, but not permittin' it to shake. As
she went off till she got the sea on the quarter, a mighty wave came a-rollin' along, boardin'
us about the main riggin', floodin' the decks and dashin' out the starboard bulwarks. The minnit
we got the wind onto the starboard quarter we braced the main-yard sharp up with the port-braces
and bowsed the weather ones as taut as a harp string. 'Now, then,' says the old man, 'never
mind that trash for'ard, let that go; git a jumper on to the main-yard and a preventer main-topsail
brace aloft; lay aloft for your lives, and clap preventer gaskets on everythin' that's furled;
we'll have it soon from the north'ard fit to take the masts out of her.' He were right. In
a short time there were a instant's lull, and then with a roar that were almost deafenin' came
the cyclone from the north. Thanks to the old man's sagacity and experience, howsever, we was
a-headin' sou'-southeast when it hit us, and it struck us right aft.

"'Steady as you go,' shouts the old man, and then, a minnit arter, as she gathered way, he
says ag'in to the mate, 'We must let her come to, Mr. Graham, we can't run her in the teeth
of the old s'utherly sea; ease down the helm and let her smell of it.' It was a powerful whiff
she took, for as she come to and felt the force of the wind, all three to'gallan' masts went
short off at the cap, the main-topsail sheets parted, and in an instant there wasn't a piece
of the sail left big enough for a lady's handkerchief.

"'That's all it can do,' said the old man to the mate, bitterly; 'git this trash on deck as
soon as possible, and git her a-waggin' once more; I've brung her through it safe, and am goin'
home,' and with that he dropped onto the poop as dead as mutton. He had come on deck bare-headed
and with nothin' on but his drawers and shirt, just as he had laid in his bunk for a fortnight,
and the exposure had carried him off. However, he knowed that the shift were so near nobody
ever could tell. There were no doubt, however, but that his gittin' her weared round were our
salvation. If that gust had a-struck us aback our masts would have gone sartin, and it's a
toss-up but what we'd a-gone down starn fust afore she'd a-backed round. Next day we giv' old
Wiggins a funeral fit for the Emperor of Rooshy, and he well desarved it. I don't know as ever
I seen a prettier sew-up than we done on him, wrappin' him first in the American ensign and
then kiverin' him with brand-new No. 4 canvas. Considerin' the sails we'd lost and how much
we needed the canvas, I think he must have been satisfied that we done the handsome thing by
him. The day was beautiful and clear, although the wind still blowed a gale. We hadn't been
able to do much with the wreck stuff, except git lashin's onto it for to keep it from swingin'
about, and we hadn't dared for to try for to send up another main-topsail. We had set the reefed
mainsail for to steady her, and that were all. The three to'gallan' masts was still a-hangin'
over the side, and the ribbons of the foresail and fore-topsail was still a-flutterin' in the
breeze, when at eight bells, at midday, all hands was called for to bury the dead. Everythin'
that we had in the way of nice clothes we had put on for to do honor to our captain, and most
of us was able to sport white shirts and broadcloth. We laid the old man onto a plank and kivered
him with the union jack, and all hands gathered round him, while Mr. Graham read the sarvice.
Everythin' went lovely, and just at the proper time we tilted the plank, and he slipped off
without a hitch of any kind. Arter the mate finished the readin', he said, 'Men, there's a
good man gone arter a long life of great usefulness. He were a sailor and a gentleman. I don't
think as we ought for to cry over sich a man, and I propose we giv' him three cheers and God
bless him'; and heartier cheers was never giv' than we giv' that day, arter which all hands
got dinner."

"----MAS HAS COME."

BY LEONARD KIP.

Overland Monthly, January, 1870.

It was called Beacon Ledge fully fifty years before the present lighthouse had been built upon
it. For it was said that long ago, when wrecking was a profitable trade along the coast, and
goodly vessels were frequently, by false lights, decoyed to their destruction, there was no
more favorable point for the exercise of that systematic villainy than this rocky, high-lifted
bluff. Projecting three or four hundred feet into the sea, with a gradually curved, sweeping
line, it formed, to be sure, upon the one side, a limited anchorage--safe enough for those
who knew it; but, upon the other side, it looked upon a waste of shoal, dotted, here and there,
at lowest tide, with craggy breakers, and, at high water, smooth, smiling, and deceitful, with
the covered dangers. Here, then, upon certain dark and stormy nights, the flaming beacon of
destruction would glow brightly against the black sky, and wildly lighten up the cruel faces
of those who stood by and piled on the fagots, while gazing eagerly out to sea to mark the
effect of their evil machinations. Nor was it until some thirty years ago that the gangs of
wretches were thoroughly broken up, and this, their favorite vantage-ground, wrested from them,
and the tall, white lighthouse there securely founded--maintaining in mercy what had before
been held as a blighting curse; lifting itself, like a nation's warning finger, and with its
calm, serene glow, pointing out the path of safety. Then, in the mouths of all the surrounding
inhabitants, Beacon Ledge became known as Beacon Ledge Beacon, and so kept its name, in spite
of tautological criticism, or of different and more formal christening, by Government authority.

