Some men's mental processes were incomprehensible. Dunlavey was one of these men. What did
the man hope to gain by defying the law? Would there not be profit enough in the cattle business
when conducted honestly?

He felt a certain contempt for the man, but mingled with it was a sort of grim pity. No doubt
Dunlavey felt justified in his actions, for he had lived here a good many years, no doubt suffering
the privations encountered by all pioneers; living a hard life, dealing heavy blows to his
enemies, and receiving some himself. No doubt his philosophy of life had been of the peculiar
sort practiced by the feudal barons of the Old World, before civilization had come, carrying
its banner of justice, which, summed up epigrammatically, though ironically, had been "Might
is Right." But might could never be right in this country. Dunlavey must learn this lesson;
he could not hope to--!

Hollis sat suddenly erect, putting aside his pipe and his ruminations at the same instant,
the languor gone from him, his eyes narrowing coldly.

For suddenly, from behind the shrubbery that skirted the edge of the trail, had appeared the
man about whom he had been thinking! It was evident that he had not come upon Hollis unexpectedly.
He reined in his pony and sat motionless in the saddle, his face white, his eyes alight with
passion.

For an instant neither man spoke. Hollis realized that the great moment for which he had waited
many days had arrived. And it had arrived unexpectedly. It had arrived to find him tired after
his activities of the night and in no condition for a fight. He drew a deep breath and got
to his feet, a grim smile on his face. He stepped off the porch and stood by one of the columns,
watching Dunlavey closely. As he watched the grim smile on his face slowly faded, his lips
curled bitterly, his eyes chilled.

"I suppose you've come to collect that thrashing?" he said.

Dunlavey dismounted quickly, his right hand flew to his holster, drawing his revolver. He came
toward Hollis crouching, a cold, merciless glitter in his eyes.

"Yes, you tenderfoot ---- ----." he snarled.

                   *       *       *       *       *

From the moment of Hollis's arrival at the court house the night before Ben Allen had been
constantly in action. It was late in the morning when he had returned to the court house with
his prisoners. The men who had been captured with Dunlavey were still with the troopers, there
not being sufficient room at the court house for them. Watkins had been released and Dunlavey
had taken his place in the little room that answered for a jail. Shortly before noon Allen
proceeded to the station, where he telegraphed to the governor the story of the capture. He
had then deputized a dozen punchers and sent them to the Circle Cross to round up a thousand
of Dunlavey's cattle and hold them until the late afternoon when, according to Allen's published
program, they were to be sold to the highest bidder. Then, tired and hungry, Allen sought the
Alhambra and ate a hearty meal.

Dry Bottom was swarming with visitors that had come in for the sale. But by the time Allen
had finished eating the exodus had begun. The trail leading to the Circle Cross ranch was dotted
with probable bidders, curiosity seekers, idlers, and mere residents of the town. Now that
the law had come there were many who discovered that their sympathies had always been with
the men who had championed it. Allen found his way to the court house strewn with men who halted
him to express their good will. Many people gathered in front of the Kicker office, eager for
a glimpse of Hollis. Those who gathered there before twelve-thirty saw him seated at his desk,
tall, angular, serious of face, absolutely unaffected by this thing which had caused a sensation.
Passing the Kicker office on his way to the court house, Allen had paused to look within and
shout a greeting to him. Then he had continued on his way.

Arriving at the court house Allen looked in at Dunlavey to find him lying on the floor, apparently
asleep. Allen did not disturb him. He went out, threw the saddle on his pony, and rode over
to the grove where the soldiers were quartered, talking long with the captain. At two o'clock
he returned to the court house to be greeted with the news that Dunlavey had escaped. Allen
did not stop to inquire how the escape had been accomplished. He remounted his pony and raced
down to the Kicker office, fearing that Dunlavey had gone there. Potter informed him that his
chief had departed for the Circle Bar fully an hour and a half before. He had taken the Coyote
trail--Potter had watched him.

Allen wheeled his pony and returned to the court house. He was met at the door by Judge Graney.
The latter's face was white and drawn with fear.

"He's gone to kill Hollis!" the judge told him through white, set lips. "I heard him threaten
Hollis this morning and a moment ago a man told me that he had seen Dunlavey, not over half
an hour ago, riding out the Coyote trail at a dead run!"

Allen's own face whitened. He did not stop to answer but drove the spurs deep into his pony's
flanks and rode furiously down the street toward a point near the Kicker office where he struck
the trail.

The distance to the Circle Bar ranch was ten miles and Dunlavey had a good half hour's start!
He fairly lifted his pony over the first mile, though realizing that he could not hope to arrive
at the Circle Bar in time to prevent Dunlavey from carrying out his design to kill Hollis.
No, he told himself as he rode, he could not prevent him from killing Hollis, should he catch
the latter unprepared, but he promised himself that Dunlavey should not escape punishment for
the deed.

He had had some hope that Dunlavey would accept his defeat philosophically. The latter was
not the only man he had seen who had been defeated by the law. Over in Colfax County and up
in Wyoming he had dealt with many such men, and usually, after they had seen that the law was
inevitable, they had resigned themselves to the new condition and had become pretty fair citizens.
He had imagined that Dunlavey would prove to be no exception, that after the first sting of
defeat had been removed he would meet his adversaries half way in an effort to patch up their
differences. The danger was in the time immediately following the realization of defeat. A
man of the Dunlavey type was then usually desperate.

So Allen communed with himself as he rode at a head-long pace down the Coyote trail, risking
his neck a dozen times. Not once since he had left Dry Bottom had he considered his own danger.

He had been riding more than half an hour, and was coming up out of a little gully when he
came upon a riderless pony, and close by it, browsing near a clump of shrubbery, another. He
recognized one of them instantly as Dunlavey's, and his teeth came together with a snap. He
rode closer to the other pony, examining it. On one of its hips was a brand--the Circle Bar.
Allen's face whitened again. He had arrived too late. But he would not be too late to wreak
vengeance upon Dunlavey.

He dismounted and cautiously approached the brush at the side of the trail. Parting it, he
saw the roof of a cabin. He recognized it; he had passed it a number of times during his exploration
of the country. He drew back and crept crept farther along in the brush, certain that he would
presently see Dunlavey. But he had not gone very far when he heard voices and he cautiously
parted the brush again and peered through.

He started back in surprise, an incredulous grin slowly appearing on his face. The incredulity
changed to amusement a moment later--when he heard Hollis's voice!

The young man was seated on the edge of the porch--smoking a pipe! Near him, seated on a flat
rock, his face horribly puffed out, with several ugly gashes disfiguring it, his eyes blackened,
his clothing in tatters, one hand hanging limply by his side, the fingers crushed and bleeding,
was Dunlavey! Near him, almost buried in the sand, was a revolver. Allen's smile broadened
when he saw Dunlavey's empty holster. Evidently he had met with a surprise!

While taking in these details Allen had not forgotten to listen to Hollis as the latter talked
to Dunlavey. Apparently Hollis had about finished his talk, for his voice was singularly soft
and even, and Dunlavey's almost comical air of dejection could not have settled over him in
an instant.

"... and so of course I had to thrash you--you had it coming to you. You haven't been a man--you've
acted like a sneak and a cur all through this business. You made a thrashing inevitable when
you set Yuma on Nellie Hazelton. You'll have plenty of marks to remind you of the one you gave
me that night." He pointed to his cheek. "I've got even for that. But I think I wouldn't have
trimmed you quite so bad if you hadn't tried to shoot me a few minutes ago."

He puffed silently at his pipe for a short time, during which Dunlavey sat on the rock and
squinted pathetically at him. Then he resumed:

"I've heard people talk of damned fools, but never, until I met you, have I been unfortunate
enough to come into personal contact with one. I should think that when you saw the soldiers
had come you would have surrendered decently. Perhaps you know by now that you can't fight
the United States Army--and that you can't whip me. If you've got any sense left at all you'll
quit fighting now and try your best to be a good citizen."

He smiled grimly as he rose from the porch and walked to where Dunlavey sat, standing over
him and looking down at him.

"Dunlavey," he said, extending his right hand to the beaten man, "let's call it quits. You've
been terribly worked up, but you ought to be over it now. You ought to be able to see that
it doesn't go. I've thrashed you pretty badly, but you and your men used me up pretty well
that night and so it's an even thing. Let's shake and be friends. If you show signs of wanting
to be a man again I'll withdraw the charge of cattle stealing which I have placed against you,
and I imagine I won't have any trouble in inducing Allen to call off that auction sale and
accept settlement of the claim against you."

Until now Dunlavey had avoided looking at the outstretched hand. But now he looked at it, took
it and held it for an instant, his bruised and swollen face taking on an expression of lugubrious
self-pity.

"I reckon I've got it in the neck all around," he said finally. "But I ain't no squealer and
I've got----" His gaze met Hollis's and his eyes gleamed with a reluctant admiration. "By God,
you're white! I reckon you could have tore the rest of me apart like you did my hand." He held
up the injured member for inspection.

Allen's grin could grow no broader, and now he showed his increased satisfaction with a subdued
cackle. He backed stealthily out of the shrubbery, taking a final glance at the two men. He
saw Hollis leading Dunlavey toward a small water hole at the rear of the cabin; saw him bathing
Dunlavey's injured hand and binding it with his handkerchief.

Then Allen proceeded to his pony, mounted, and departed for the court house to tell Judge Graney
the news that kept his own face continually in a smile.

CHAPTER XXXI

AFTERWARD

From Razor-Back ridge the big basin spread away to the Blue Peak mountains. On the opposite
side of the ridge began the big plain on which, snuggled behind some cottonwood trees, were
the Circle Cross buildings. From where Hollis and Nellie Hazelton sat on the ridge they could
look miles down the Coyote trail, into Devil's Hollow; could see the two big cottonwood trees
that stood beside Big Elk crossing, above which, on the night of the storm, Hollis had been
attacked by Dunlavey's men. Back on the stretch of plain above the basin they could make out
the Circle Bar buildings, lying close to the banks of the river.

It was in the late afternoon and the sun had gone down behind the Blue Peaks, though its last
rays were just touching the crest of the ridge near Hollis and Nellie. He had called her attention
to the sinking sun, telling her that it was time they started for the Circle Bar.

"Wait," she said; "someone is coming up the Coyote trail. I have been watching him for ten
minutes."

Hollis faced the trail and watched also. In a quarter of an hour the horseman came out of Devil's
Hollow. Hollis and Nellie could see him plainly as he guided his pony around the huge boulders
that filled the place. Hollis smiled whimsically.

"It's the poet," he told Nellie, catching her gaze and grinning widely at her. "I sent him
to Dry Bottom this noon for the mail--Potter is going to stay in town over night."

For an instant it seemed that Ace would not see them, and Hollis rose from the rock on which
he had been sitting and halloed to him. He responded with a shout and urged his pony up the
steep side of the slope and then along the crest until he came within a few feet of where they
sat. He dismounted and came forward, grinning broadly.

"Takin' the view?" he questioned. His eyes twinkled. "Sometimes there's a heap of poetry could
be got out of this county. But--" and his eyelashes flickered slightly--"a fellow's got to
be in the right frame of mind to get it out. I reckon you two----"

"I suppose you got the mail?" interrupted Hollis, grimacing at him.

"I sure did," returned the poet, "one letter. I reckon the blacksmith'll be kickin' because
I've been galivantin' around the country for one letter. Here it is." He passed an envelope
to Hollis, and the latter, with a quick glance at the legend in the upper left hand corner,
tore it open and read. It was from Weary.

    Dear boss i got cleaned out agin what did you send me a hundred
    dollars for you might have knowed that id make a gol darned fool
    of myself with so much coin i never could keep no coin no how
    but its all right anyway cause me an eds comin home tomorrow eds
    all right except bein a littel week which the doc says he git
    over in a littel while.

                                                        ta ta.
                                                              WEARY

    P.S. i might have telegraphed but ed says it dont make no
    difference cause the letter will git there quick enough any way
    an hes afraid a telegram will scare some one. im dam glad i got
    a return ticket.

                                                              WEARY

After reading the letter Hollis passed it over to Nellie, watching her, his eyes alight with
satisfaction.

"Oh!" she said. "Oh!" The letter dropped from her hand, was caught by the breezes and swirled
several feet distant. Ace sprang to recover it. When he turned, the letter in hand, he saw
something that brought a huge grin of sympathy to his face. But mingled with the sympathy was
another emotion.

"Boss," he said, as Hollis, disengaging himself, turned and faced him, "I've writ quite a nice
little thing on 'Love.' Mebbe you'd like to----"

He caught Hollis's frown and immediately retreated to his pony, his grin broadening as he went.
He cackled with mirth as Hollis's voice reached him.

"Ace," he said gravely, "don't attempt to write a poem on 'Love' until you've had some experience."

"You havin' yours now?" insinuated Ace, as he mounted his pony.

He alone caught Hollis's reply. It was an expressive wink.

THE END