Judge Smith (Vol. vii., pp. 463. 508.).--I am well acquainted with the monumental inscriptions
in Chesterfield Church, but I do not recollect one to the memory of Judge Smith.

Thomas Smith, who was an attorney in Sheffield, and died in 1774, had a brother, William Smith
of Norwich, who died in 1801. Thomas Smith married Susan Battie, by whom he had a son Thomas
Smith of Sheffield, and after of Dunston Hall, who married in 1791 Elizabeth Mary, only surviving
child of Robert Mower of Woodseats, Esq., (by Elizabeth his wife, daughter of Richard Milnes
of Dunston Hall, Esq.) It was through this lady that the Dunston estate came to the Smiths
by the will of her uncle Mr. Milnes. Mr. Smith died in 1811, having had issue by her (who married
secondly John Frederick Smith, Esq., of London) three sons and several daughters. The second
son (Rev. Wm. Smith of Dunston Hall) died in 1841, leaving male issue; but I am not aware of
the death of either of the others. The family had a grant of arms in 1816. Dunston Hall had
belonged to the Milnes family for about a century.

W. ST.

"Dimidiation" in Impalements (Vol. vii., p. 548.).--In reply to your correspondent's Query
as to dimidiation, he will find that this was the most ancient form of impalement. Its manifest
inconvenience no doubt at last banished it. Guillim (ed. 1724) says, at p. 425.:

    "It was an ancient way of impaling, to take half the husband's coat,
    and with that to joyn as much of the wife's; as appeareth in an old
    roll, wherein three lions, being the arms of England, are dimidiated
    and impaled with half the pales of Arragon. The like hath been
    practised with quartered coats by leaving out half of them."

On p. 426. he gives the example of Mary, Henry VIII.'s sister, and her husband Louis XII. of
France. Here the French king's coat is cut in half, so that the lily in the base point is dimidiated;
and the queen's coat, being quarterly France and England, shows two quarters only; England
in chief, France in base.

Sandford, in his Genealogical History, gives a plate of the tomb of Henry II. and Richard I.
of England at Fontevrault, which was built anew in {630} 1638. Upon it are several impalements
by dimidiation. Sandford (whose book seems to me to be strangely over-valued) gives no explanation
of them. No doubt they were copied from the original tomb.

In Part II. of the Guide to the Architectural Antiquities in the Neighbourhood of Oxford, at
p. 178., is figured an impalement by dimidiation existing at Stanton Harcourt, in the north
transept of the church, in a brass on a piece of blue marble. The writer of the Guide supposes
this bearing to be some union of Harcourt and Beke, in consequence of a will of John Lord Beke,
and to be commemorative of the son of Sir Richard Harcourt and Margaret Beke. It is in fact
commemorative of those persons themselves. Harcourt, two bars, is dimidiated, and meets Beke,
a cross moline or ancrée. The figure thus produced is a strange one, but perfectly intelligible
when the practice of impaling by dimidiation is recollected. I know no modern instance of this
method of impaling. I doubt if any can be found since the time of Henry VIII.

D. P.

Begbrook.

Worth (Vol. vii., p. 584.).--At one time, and in one locality, this word seems to have denoted
manure; as appears by the following preamble to the statute 7 Jac. I. cap. 18.:

    "Whereas the sea-sand, by long triall and experience, hath bin found to
    be very profitable for the bettering of land, and especially for the
    increase of corne and tillage, within the counties of Devon and
    Cornwall, where the inhabitants have not commonly used any other
    worth, for the bettering of their arable grounds and pastures."

I am not aware of any other instance of the use of this word in this sense.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

"Elementa sex," &c. (Vol. vii., p. 572.).--The answer to the Latin riddle propounded by your
correspondent EFFIGY, seems to be the word putres; divided into utres, tres, res, es, and the
letter s.

The allusion in putres is to Virgil, Georgic, i. 392.; and in utres probably to Georgic, ii.
384.: the rest is patent enough.

I send this response to save others from the trouble of seeking an answer, and being disappointed
at their profitless labours. If I may venture a guess at its author, I should be inclined to
ascribe it to some idle schoolboy, or perhaps schoolmaster, who deserved to be whipped for
their pains.

C. W. B.

"A Diasii 'Salve'," &c. (Vol. vii., p. 571.).--The deliverance desired in these words is from
treachery, similar to that which was exhibited by the fratricide Alfonso Diaz toward his brother
Juan. (Vid. Senarclæi Historiam veram, 1546; Actiones et Monimenta Martyrum, foll. 126-139.
[Genevæ], 1560: Histoire des Martyrs, foll. 161-168., ed. 1597; M^cCrie's Reformation in Spain,
pp. 181-188., Edinb. 1829.)

The "A Gallorum 'Venite,'" probably refers to the singing of the "Venite, exultemus Domino,"
on the occasion of the massacre of St. Bartholomew.

R. G.

Meaning of "Claret" (Vol. vii., pp. 237. 511.).--Old Bartholomew Glanville, the venerable Franciscan,
gives a recipe for claret in his treatise De Proprietatibus Rerum, Argent., 1485., lib. xix.
cap. 56., which proves it to be of older date than is generally supposed:

    "Claretum ex vino et melle et speciebus aromaticis est confectum ...
    Unde a vino contrahit fortitudinem et acumen, a speciebus autem retinet
    aromaticitatem et odorem, sed a melle dulcedinem mutuat et saporem."

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

"The Temple of Truth" (Vol. vii., p. 549.).--The author of this work, according to Dr. Watt,
was the Rev. C. E. de Coetlogon, rector of Godstone, Surrey.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

Wellborne Family (Vol. vii., p. 259.).--The following is from the Town and Country Magazine
for 1772:

    "Deaths.--Mr. Richard Wellborne, in Aldersgate Street, descended in a
    direct male line from the youngest son of Simon Montfort, Earl of
    Leicester, who flourished in King Henry III.'s time, and married that
    king's sister."

There is now a family of the name of Wellborne residing in Doncaster.

W. H. L.

Devonianisms (Vol. vii., p. 544.).--While a resident in Devonshire, I frequently met with localisms
similar in character to those quoted by J. M. B.; but what at first struck me as most peculiar
in common conversation, was the use, or rather abuse, of the little preposition to. When inquiring
the whereabouts of an individual, Devonians ask one another, "Where is he to?" The invariable
reply is, "To London," "To Plymouth," &c., as the case may be. The Cheshire clowns, on the
other hand, murder the word at, in just the same strange and inappropriate manner.

The indiscriminate use of the term forrell, when describing the cover of a book, is a solecism,
I fancy, peculiarly Devonian. Whether a book be bound in cloth, vellum, or morocco, it is all
alike forrell in Devonshire parlance. I imagine, however, that the word, in its present corrupt
sense, must have originated from forrell, a term still used by the trade to designate an inferior
kind of vellum {631} or parchment, in which books are not unfrequently bound. When we consider
that vellum was at one time in much greater request for bookbinding purposes than it is just
now, we shall be at no great loss to reconcile this eccentricity in the vocabulary of our west
country brethren.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Humbug (Vol. vii., p. 550.).--A recent number of Miller's Fly Leaves makes the following hazardous
assertion as to the origin and derivation of the term Humbug:

    "This, now common expression, is a corruption of the word Hamburgh, and
    originated in the following manner:--During a period when war prevailed
    on the Continent, so many false reports and lying bulletins were
    fabricated at Hamburgh, that at length, when any one would signify his
    disbelief of a statement, he would say, 'You had that from Hamburgh;'
    and thus, 'That is Hamburgh,' or Humbug, became a common expression
    of incredulity."

With all my credulity, I cannot help fancying that this bit of specious humbug is a leetle
too far-fetched.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

George Miller, D.D. (Vol. vii., p. 527.).--His Donnellan Lectures were never published.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

"A Letter to a Convocation Man" (Vol. vii., p. 502.).--Your correspondent W. FRASER may be
informed that the "great preacher" for whom he inquires was Archbishop Tillotson.

[Greek: Halieus].

    [Perhaps our correspondent can reply to another Query from MR. W.
    FRASER, viz. "Who is the 'certain author' quoted in A Letter to a
    Convocation Man, pp. 24, 25.?"--ED.]

Sheriffs of Huntingdonshire and Cambridgeshire (Vol. vii., p. 572.).--This is a very singular
Query, inasmuch as Fuller's list of the sheriffs of these counties begins 1st Henry II., and
not, as is assumed by your correspondent D., "from the time of Henry VIII."

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

Ferdinand Mendez Pinto (Vol. vii., p. 551.).--INQUIRENS will find the passage he quotes in
Congreve's Love for Love, Act II. Sc. 5. Foresight, addressing Sir Sampson Legend, says:

    "Thou modern Mandeville, Ferdinand Mendez Pinto was but a type," &c.

In the Tatler, No. 254. (a paper ascribed to Addison and Steele conjointly), these veracious
travellers are thus pleasantly noticed:

    "There are no books which I more delight in than in travels, especially
    those that describe remote countries, and give the writer an
    opportunity of showing his parts without incurring any danger of being
    examined and contradicted. Among all the authors of this kind, our
    renowned countryman, Sir John Mandeville, has distinguished himself by
    the copiousness of his invention, and the greatness of his genius. The
    second to Sir John I take to have been Ferdinand Mendez Pinto, a person
    of infinite adventure and unbounded imagination. One reads the voyages
    of these two great wits with as much astonishment as the travels of
    Ulysses in Homer, or of the Red Cross Knight in Spenser. All is
    enchanted ground and fairy land."

Biographical sketches of Mandeville and Pinto are attached to this paper in the excellent edition
of the Tatler ("with Illustrations and Notes" by Calder, Percy, and Nichols), published in
six volumes in 1786. Godwin selected this quotation from Congreve as a fitting motto for his
Tale of St. Leon.

J. H. M.

The passage referred to occurs in Congreve's Love for Love, Act II. Sc. 5. Cervantes had before
designated Pinto as the "prince of liars." It seems that poor Pinto did not deserve the ill
language applied to him by the wits. Ample notices of his travels may be seen in the Retrospective
Review, vol. viii. pp. 83-105., and Macfarlane's Romance of Travel, vol. ii. pp. 104-192.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

"Other-some" and "Unneath" (Vol vii., p. 571.).--Mr. Halliwell, in his Dictionary of Archaic
and Provincial Words, has other-some, some other, "a quaint but pretty phrase of frequent occurrence."
He gives two instances of its use. He has also "Unneath, beneath. Somerset."

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

The word other-some occurs in the authorised version of the Bible, Acts xvii. 18. "Other some,
He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods." It does not occur in any of the earlier versions
of this passage in Bagster's English Hexapla. Halliwell says that it is "a quaint but pretty
phrase of frequent occurrence," and gives an example dated 1570. Unneath, according to the
same authority, is used in Somersetshire. Other-some is constantly used in Norfolk. I think
it, however, a pity that your space should be occupied by such Queries as these, which a simple
reference to Halliwell's Dictionary would have answered.

E. G. R.

Willow Pattern (Vol. vi., p. 509.).--Evidently a Chinese design. The bridge-houses, &c., are
purely Chinese; and also the want of perspective. I have seen crockery in the shops in Shanghai
with the same pattern, or at least with very slight difference.

H. B.

Shanghai.

Cross and Pile (Vol. vii., p. 487.).--Another evidence that the word pile is of French origin:
{632} "Pille, pile; that side of the coin which bears the head. Cross or pile, a game."--A
Dictionary of the Norman French Language, by Robert Kelham of Lincoln's Inn: London, 1779,
8vo., p. 183.

[Phi].

Old Fogie (Vol. vii., pp. 354. 559.).--J. L., who writes from Edinburgh, denies the Irish origin
of this appellation, because he says it was used of the "veteran companies" who garrisoned
the castles of Edinburgh and Stirling. My mother, who was born in 1759, often told me that
she never had heard any other name for the old men in the Royal Hospital, in the vicinity of
which she passed her early days. It was therefore a well-known name a century ago in Dublin,
and consequently was in use long before; probably from the building of the hospital in the
reign of Charles II. Can J. L. trace the Scotch term as far back as that? Scotch or Irish,
however, I maintain that my derivation is the right one. J. L. says he prefers that of Dr.
Jamieson, in his Scottish Dictionary, who "derives it from Su.-G. Fogde, formerly one who had
the charge of a garrison." In thus preferring a Scottish authority, J. L. shows himself to
be a true Scot; but he must allow me to ask him, is he acquainted with the Swedish language?
(for that is what is meant by the mysterious Su.-G.) And if so, is he not aware that Fogde
is the same as the German Vogt, and signifies governor, judge, steward, &c., never merely a
military commandant; and what on earth has that to do with battered old soldiers?

I may as well take this opportunity of replying to another of your Caledonian correspondents,
respecting the origin of the word nugget. The Persian derivation is simply ridiculous, as the
word was not first used in Australia. I am then perfectly well aware that this term has long
been in use in Scotland and the north of Ireland as i. q. lump, as a nugget of bread, of sugar,
&c. But an ingot is a lump also: and the derivation is so simple and natural, that in any case
I am disposed to regard it as the true one. May not the Yankee term have been made independently
of the British one?

THOS. KEIGHTLEY.

Another odd Mistake (Vol. vii., p. 405.).--On page 102. of Last Glimpses of Convocation, by
A. J. Joyce, 1853, I read of "the defiance thrown out to Henry III. by his barons, Nolumus
leges Angliæ mutare." I have never read of any such defiance, expressed in any such language,
anywhere else.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Spontaneous Combustion (Vol. vii., pp. 286. 440.).--I have somewhere read an account of a drunkard
whose body was so saturated with alcohol, that being bled in a fever, and the lamp near him
having been overthrown, the blood caught fire, and burst into a blaze: the account added, that
he was so startled by this occurrence, that on his recovery he reformed thoroughly, and prolonged
his life to a good old age. Where is this story to be found, and is the fact related physically
possible? It seems to bear on the question of spontaneous combustion.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Erroneous Forms of Speech (Vol vii., p. 329.).--E. G. R. will find, on farther inquiry, that
he is in the wrong as regards the mode of writing and speaking mangold-wurzel. The subject
was discussed in the Gardeners' Chronicle in 1844. There (p. 204.) your correspondent will
find, by authority of "a German," that mangold is field-beet or leaf-beet: and that mangel
is a corruption or pretended emendation of the common German appellation, and most probably
of English coinage. Such a thing as mangel-wurzel is not known on the Continent; and the best
authorities now, in this country, all use mangold-wurzel.

M.

P.S.--Since writing the above, I have seen MR. FRERE's note on the same subject (Vol. vii,
p. 463.). The substitution of mangel for the original mangold, was probably an attempt to correct
some vulgar error in orthography; or to substitute a word of some significance for one of none.
But, as Dr. Lindley has said, "If we adopt a foreign name, we ought to take it as we find it,
whatever may be its imperfections."

Ecclesia Anglicana (Vol. vii., pp. 12. 440. 535.).--I gladly set down for G. R. M. the following
instances of the use of "Ecclesia Gallicana;" they are quotations occurring in Richard's Analysis
Consiliorum: he will find many more in the same work as translated by Dalmasus:

    "Ex Gallicanæ Ecclesiæ usu, Jubilæi Bullæ ad Archiepiscopos mittendæ
    sunt, e quorum manibus ad suffraganeos Episcopos
    perferuntur."--Monumenta Cleri, tom. ii. p. 228.

    "Gallicana Ecclesia a disciplinæ remissione, ante quadringentos aut
    quingentos annos inducta, se melius quam aliæ defendit, Romanæque curiæ
    ausis vehementius resistat."--Fleurius, Sermo super Ecclesiæ Gallicanæ
    Libertatibus.

I have not time to search for the other examples which he wants; though I have not any doubt
but they would easily be found. The English Church has been, I consider, a more Romanising
church than many; but, in mediæval times, the most intimate connexion with Rome did not destroy,
though it impaired, the nationality of the church. The church of Spain is, I believe, now one
of the most national of the churches in communion with Rome.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Gloves at Fairs (Vol. vii., p. 455.).--The writer saw, a few years ago, the shape of a glove
hanging {633} during the fair at the common ground of Southampton, and was told, that while
it was there debtors were free from arrest within the town.

ANON.

In returning my thanks to your correspondents who have given instances of this custom, allow
me to add that a friend has called my attention to the fact that Mattishall Gant, or fair,
takes place in Rogation or Gang week, and probably takes its name from the latter word. Forby
says that there are probably few instances of the use of this word, and I am not aware of any
other than the one he gives, viz. Mattishall Gant.

E. G. R.

Popular Sayings.--The Sparrows at Lindholme (Vol. vii., p. 234.).--The sparrows at Lindholme
have made themselves scarce here, under the following circumstances:--William of Lindholme
seems to have united in himself the characters of hermit and wizard. When a boy, his parents,
on going to Wroot Feast, hard by, left him to keep the sparrows from the corn; at which he
was so enraged that he took up an enormous stone, and threw it at the house to which they were
gone, but from throwing it too high it fell on the other side. After he had done this he went
to the feast, and when scolded for it, said he had fastened up all the sparrows in the barn;
where they were found, on the return home, all dead, except a few which were turned white.
(Vide Stonehouse's History of the Isle of Axholme.)

As for the "Doncaster Daggers" and "Hatfield Rats," also inquired after, I have no information,
although those places are in the same neighbourhood.

W. H. L.

Effects of the Vox Regalis of the Queen Bee (Vol. vii., p. 499.).--Dr. Bevan, than whom there
is probably no better authority on apiarian matters, discredits this statement of Huber. No
other naturalist appears to have witnessed these wonderful effects. Dr. Bevan however states,
that when the queen is

    "Piping, prior to the issue of an after-swarm, the bees that are near
    her remain still, with a slight inclination of their heads, but whether
    impressed by fear or not seems doubtful."--Bevan On the Honey Bee, p.
    18.

CHEVERELLS.

Seneca and St. Paul (Vol. vii., p. 500.).--

    "The fourteen letters of Seneca to Paul, which are printed in the old
    editions of Seneca, are apocryphal."--Dr. W. Smith's Dict. of
    Mythology, &c.

    "SENECA, Opera, 1475, fol. The second part contains only his letters,
    and begins with the correspondence of St. Paul and Seneca."--Ebert's
    Bibl. Dict.

B. H. C.

Hurrah (Vol. vi., p. 54.; Vol. vii., p. 595.).--Wace's Chronicle of the Norman Conquest, as
it appears in Mr. Edgar Taylor's translation, pp. 21, 22, mentions the war-cries of the various
knights at the battle of Val des Dunes. Duke William cries "Dex aie," and Raol Tesson "Tur
aie;" on which there is a note that M. Pluquet reads "Thor aide," which he considers may have
been derived from the ancient Northmen. Surely this is the origin of our modern hurrah; and
if so, perhaps the earliest mention of our English war-cry.

J. F. M.

Purlieu (Vol. vii., p. 477.).--The etymology of this word which Dr. Johnson adopted is that
which many others have approved of. The only other derivation which appears to have been suggested
is from perambulatio. Blount, Law Dict., s. voc., thus explains:

    "Purlue or Purlieu (from the Fr. pur, i. e. purus, and lieu,
    locus) is all that ground near any forest, which being made forest by
    Henry II., Richard I., or King John, were, by perambulation, granted
    by Henry III., severed again from the same, and became purlue, i. e.
    pure and free from the laws and ordinances of the forest. Manwood, par.
    2., For. Laws, cap. 20.; see the statute 33 Edw. I. stat. 5. And the
    perambulation, whereby the purlieu is deafforested, is called
    pourallee, i. e. perambulatio. 4 Inst. fol. 303."
  Vox mea, vox vitæ, voco vos ad sacra, venite,
  Sanctos collaudo, tonitrus fugo, funera claudo."
      .    .    .    .    .    .
 "Funera plango, fulgura frango, Sabbatha pango,
  Excito lentos, dissipo ventos, paco cruentos."

There is also an old inscription for a "holy water" vessel:

 "Hujus aquæ tactus depellit Demonis actus.
  Asperget vos Deus cum omnibus sanctis suis ad vitam æternam.
          Sex operantur aqua benedicta.
  Cor mundat, Accidiam fugat, venalia tollit,
  Auget opem, removetque hostem, phantasmata pellit."

At page 848. there is a beautiful specimen of an old font in the church of East Winch, in the
diocese of Norwich.

CLERICUS (D).

Dublin.

Quotation from Juvenal (Vol. vii., pp. 166. 321.).--My copy of this poet being unfortunately
without notes, I was not aware that there was authority for "abest" in this passage; but my
argument still remains much the same, as regards quoters {634} having retained for their own
convenience a reading which most editors have rejected. I observe that Gifford, in his translation,
takes habes as the basis of his version in both the passages mentioned.

May I ask if it is from misquotation, or variation in the copies, that an even more hackneyed
quotation is never given as I find it printed, Sat. 2. v. 83.: "Nemo repente venit turpissimus?"

J. S. WARDEN.

J. S. WARDEN.

Rathe (Vol. vii., p. 512).--I can corroborate the assertion of Anon., that this word is still
in use in Sussex, though by no means frequently. Not long since I heard an old woman say, "My
gaeffer (meaning her husband) got up quite rathe this morning."

In the case of the early apple it is generally pronounced ratheripe.

See also Cooper's excellent Sussex Glossary, 2nd edit. 1853.

M.

