Once every month voltage and gravity readings of every cell in the battery should be taken
and recorded for future guidance. These readings should be taken after the monthly "overcharge"
or "equalizing charge" which is explained later. If the monthly readings of any cell are always
lower than that of other cells, it needs attention. The low readings may be due to electrolyte
having been spilled and replaced with water, but in a farm lighting battery this is not very
likely to happen. More probably the cell has too much sediment, or bad separators, and needs
cleaning. See special instructions on Exide and Prest-O-Lite batteries which are given later.

There are several precautions that must be observed in taking gravity readings in order to
obtain dependable results. Do not take gravity readings if:

(a) The cell is gassing violently.

(b) The hydrometer float does not ride freely. If a syringe hydrometer is used, the float must
not be touching the walls of the tube, and the tube must not be so full that the top of the
float projects into the rubber bulb at the upper end of the tube.

(c) Water has been added less than four hours before taking the readings. A good time to take
readings is just before water is added.

The hydrometer which is used should have the specific gravity readings marked on it in figures,
such as 1.180, 1.200, 1.220 and so on. Automobile battery hydrometers which are marked "Full,"
"Empty," "Charged," "Discharged," must not be used, since the specific gravities corresponding
to these words are not the same in farm lighting batteries as in automobile batteries and the
readings would be incorrect and misleading. If the manufacturer-of the battery furnishes a
special hydrometer which is marked "Full," "Half-Full," "Empty," or in some similar manner,
this hydrometer may, of course, be used.

Temperature corrections should be made in taking hydrometer readings, as described on page
65. For Prest-O-Lite batteries, 80 degrees is the standard temperature, and gravity readings
on these batteries should be corrected to 80 degrees as described on page 461.

Gravity readings should, of course, be taken during charge as well as during discharge. The
readings taken during charge are described in the following sections on charging.

Charging

(See also special instructions for the different makes, beginning page 460.)

Two kinds of charges should be given the battery, the "Regular" charge, and the "Overcharge"
or "Equalizing Charge." These will be spoken of as the "Regular" charge and the "Overcharge."
The Regular charge must be given whenever it is necessary in order to enable the battery to
meet the lighting or other load demands made upon it. The overcharge, which is merely a continuation
of a regular charge, should be given once every month. The overcharge is given to keep the
battery in good condition, and to prevent the development of inequalities in condition of cells.

When to Charge. Experience will soon show how often you must give a regular charge in order
to keep the lights from becoming dim. When the voltage reading, taken while all the lamps are
on has dropped to 1.8 volts per cell a Regular charge is necessary. When the specific gravity
of the pilot cell indicates that the battery is discharged, a Regular charge is necessary.
It is better to use the specific gravity readings as a guide, as described later.

A good plan, and the best one, is to give a battery a Regular charge once every week, whether
the battery becomes discharged in one week's time or not. A regular charge may be required
oftener than once a week. Every fourth week give the Overcharge instead of the Regular charge.

If a battery is to be out of service, arrangements should be made to add the necessary water
and give an overcharge every month, the Regular charges not being necessary when the battery
stands absolutely idle.

Overcharge. Charge the battery as near as practicable at the rate prescribed by the manufacturer.
If the manufacturer's rate is not known, then charge at a rate which will not allow the temperature
of the electrolyte to rise above 110° Fahrenheit, and which will not cause gassing while the
specific gravity is still considerably below its maximum value. One ampere per plate in each
cell is a safe value of current to use. A battery having eleven plates in each cell should,
for example, be charged at about 11 to 12 amperes.

Watch the temperature of the pilot cell carefully. This cell should have an accurate Fahrenheit
thermometer suspended above it so that the bulb is immersed in the electrolyte. If this thermometer
should show a temperature of 110°, stop the charge immediately, and do not start it again until
the temperature has dropped to at least 90'. Feel the other cells with your hand occasionally,
and if any cell is so hot that you cannot hold your hand on it measure its temperature with
the thermometer to see whether it is near 110'. A good plan is to measure the temperature of
the electrolyte in every cell during the charge. If any cell shows a higher temperature than
that of the pilot cell, place the thermometer in the cell giving the higher reading, and be
guided by the temperature of that cell. You will then know that the thermometer indicates the
highest temperature in the entire battery, and that no other cell is dangerously hot when the
thermometer does not read 100 degrees or over. Another point in the selection of a pilot cell
is to determine if any particular cell shows a gravity which is slightly less than that of
the other cells. If any such cell is found, use that cell as the pilot cell in taking gravity
readings while the battery is on discharge and also on charge. No cell will then be discharged
too far.

When all cells are gassing freely, continue the charge at the same current until there is no
rise in the specific gravity of the pilot cell for one to two hours, and all cells are gassing
freely throughout the hour. Then stop the charge.

After the overcharge is completed, take gravity readings of all the cells. A variation of about
eight to ten points either above or below the fully charged gravity after correction for temperature
does not mean that a cell requires any attention. If, however, one cell continually reads more
than 10 points lower then the others, the whole battery may be given an overcharge until the
gravity of the low cell comes up. If the cell then does not show any tendency to charge up
properly, disconnect it from the battery while the battery is discharging and then connect
it in again on the next charge. If this fails to bring the gravity of the cell up to normal,
the cells should be examined for short circuits. Short circuits may be caused by broken separators
permitting the active material to bridge between the plates; the sediment in the bottoms of
the jars may have reached the plates, or conducting substances may have fallen in the cells.

Broken separators should be replaced without loss of time, and the cells cleaned if the sediment
in the jars is high.

Regular Charge. A Regular Charge is made exactly like an Overcharge, except that a Regular
Charge is stopped when cells are gassing freely, when the voltage per cell is about 2.6, and
when the specific gravity of the pilot cell rises to within 5 points of what it was on the
previous Overcharge. That is, if the gravity reading on the Overcharge rose to 1.210, the Regular
Charge should be stopped when the gravity reaches 1.205.

Partial or Rapid Charge. If there is not enough time to give the battery a full Regular Charge,
double the normal charging rate and charge until all the cells are gassing, and then reduce
to the normal rate. Any current which does not cause excessive temperature or premature gassing
is permissible, as previously mentioned. If a complete charge cannot be given, charge the battery
as long as the available time allows, and complete the charge at the earliest possible opportunity.

Discharge

Do not allow the battery to discharge until the lights burn dim, or the voltage drops below
1.8 per cell. The specific gravity is a better guide than the lamps or voltage. The gravity
falls as the battery discharges, and is therefore a good indicator of the condition of the
battery. Voltage readings are good guides, but they must be taken while the battery is discharging
at its normal rate. If the load on the battery is heavy, the voltage per cell might fall below
1.8 before the battery was discharged. Lamps will be dim if the load on the battery is heavy,
especially if they are located far away from the battery. The specific gravity readings are
therefore the best means of indicating when a battery is discharged.

Overdischarge. Be very careful not to discharge the battery beyond the safe limits. Batteries
discharging at low rates are liable to be overdischarged before the voltage gives any indication
of the discharged condition. This is another reason why hydrometer readings should be used
as a guide.

A battery must be charged as soon as it becomes discharged. It is, in fact, a good plan, and
one which will lengthen the life of the battery, to charge a battery when it is only about
three fourths discharged, as indicated by the hydrometer. Suppose, for instance, that the specific
gravity of the fully charged battery is 1.250, and the specific gravity when the battery is
discharged is 1.180. This battery has a range of 1.250 minus 1.180, or 70 points between charge
and discharge. This battery will give a longer life if its discharge is stopped and the battery
is put on charge when the gravity falls to 1.200, a drop of 50 points instead of the allowable 70.

Allowing discharged battery to stand without charge. A battery should never be allowed to stand
more than one day in a discharged condition. The battery will continue to discharge although
no current is drawn from it, just as an automobile battery will. See page 89. The battery plates
and separators will gradually become badly sulphated and it will be a difficult matter to charge
the battery up to full capacity.

Battery Troubles

Farm lighting batteries are subject to the same general troubles that automobile batteries
are, although they are not as likely to occur because the operating conditions are not as severe
as is the case on the automobile. Being in plain view at all times, and not being charged and
discharged irregularly, the farm lighting battery is not likely to give as much trouble as
an automobile battery. Neglect, such as failure to keep the electrolyte up to the proper height,
failure to charge as soon as the battery becomes discharged, overdischarging, allowing battery
to become too hot or too cold, allowing impurities to get into the cells, will lead to the
same troubles that the same treatment will cause in an automobile battery, and the descriptions
of, and instructions for troubles in automobile batteries will apply in general to farm lighting
batteries also.

When a battery has been giving trouble, and you are called: upon to diagnose and remedy that
trouble, you should:

1. Get all the details as to the length of time the battery has been in service.

2. Find out what regular attention has been paid to its upkeep; whether it has been charged
regularly and given an overcharge once a month; whether distilled water has been used in replacing
evaporation of water from the electrolyte; whether impurities such as small nails, pieces of
wire, etc., have ever fallen into any cell; whether battery has ever been allowed to stand
in a discharged condition for one day or more; whether temperature has been allowed to rise
above 110 deg. F. at any time; whether electrolyte has ever been frozen due to battery standing
discharged in very cold weather.

3. Talk to the owner long enough to judge with what intelligence he has taken care of the battery.
Doing this may, save you both time and subsequent embarrassment from a wrong diagnosis resulting
from incomplete data.

4. After getting all the details that the owner can supply, you will probably know just about
what the trouble is. Look over the cells carefully to determine their condition. If the jars
are made of glass note the following:

(a) Height of sediment in each jar.

(b) Color of electrolyte. This should be clear and colorless. A decided color of any kind usually
means that dirty or impure water has been added, or impurities have fallen into the cell. For
discussion of impurities see page 76.

(c) Condition of plates. The same troubles should be looked for as in automobile batteries.
See pages 339 to 346. An examination of the outside negatives is usually sufficient. The condition
of the positives may also be determined if a flash light or other strong light is directed
on the edges of the plates. Look for growths or "treeing" between plates.

(d) Condition of separators. See page 346.

If cells have sealed rubber jars, proceed as follows:

(a) Measure height of electrolyte above plates with glass tube, as in Fig. 30. If in any cell
electrolyte is below tops of plates that cell is very likely the defective one, and should
be filled with distilled water. If a considerable amount of water is required to fill the jar
it is best to open the cell, as the plates have probably become damaged. If the jar is wet
or the rack is acid eaten under the jar, the jar is cracked and must be replaced.

If you have not found the trouble, make the following tests, no matter whether glass or rubber
jars are used:

(a) Measure specific gravity of each cell. If any cell is badly discharged it is probably short-circuited,
or contains impurities and had better be opened for inspection.

(b) Turn on all the lamps and measure the voltage of each cell. If any cell shows a voltage
much less than 1.8 it is short-circuited or contains impurities, and should be opened for inspection.

(c) Examine the connections between cells for looseness or corrosion; and examine the connections
between the battery and the generator, going over cables, switches, rheostats, etc. Make sure
that you have a complete and closed charging circuit between the generator and the battery.

(d) If cutout is used on the switchboard, see that its contact points are smooth and clean,
and that they work freely.

(e) Run the generator to see if it builds up a voltage which is sufficient to charge the battery,
about 42 volts for a 16 cell battery. If the generator is not working properly, examine it
according to directions on page 451. Check up the field circuit of the generator to be sure
that it is closed. A circuit-tester made of a buzzer and several dry cells, or a low voltage
lamp and dry cells, or a hand magneto is convenient for use in testing circuits. Test armature
windings and field coils for grounds.

By the foregoing methods you should be able to determine what is to be done. The following
rules should also help:

Cleaning and renewal of electrolyte is necessary when:

(a) Sediment has risen to within one-half inch of the bottom of the plates.

(b) Much foreign material is floating in the electrolyte, or electrolyte is of a deep brown color.

Replacement of parts is necessary when

(a) Separators are cracked or warped. See page 346 for Separator troubles.

(b) Plates are defective. See rules on pages 339 to 346.

PREST-O-LITE FARM LIGHTING BATTERIES

  [Fig. 300 Element from Prest-O-Light farm light cell]

The Prest-O-Lite battery which is designed for use in connection with farm lighting plants
is known as the FPL type. Cells of 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15 plates are made, the number of plates
being indicated by putting the figure in front of the type letters. A seven plate cell is thus
designated as a 7 FPL cell, which has an 80 ampere hour capacity at the 8 hour continuous discharge
rate.

The FPL cell, the construction of which is shown in Figs. 295, 300, 301, 302 and 303, has a
sealed glass jar with a lead antimony cover. The cover construction is shown in detail in Figs.
301 and 302. Insulation between the posts and cover is provided by a hard rubber bushing, a
hard rubber washer, and a soft rubber washer. The bushing is shaped like a "T" with a hole
drilled in the stem. The stem of the bushing fits down into the post hole in the cover, the
flange at the top testing on the raised portion of the cover around the post hole. The post
has a shoulder a little less than halfway up from its lower end. Upon this shoulder is placed
the hard rubber washer, and upon the hard rubber washer is placed the soft rubber washer. This
assembly is fastened to the cover by the "peening" process used in Prest-O-Lite automobile
batteries as described on page 386. This forces the soft rubber washer tightly against the
cover so as to make a leak proof joint-between the bushing and cover. The ring of lead formed
around the posts by the peening process supports the posts, plates, and separators, which therefore
are suspended from the cell cover. The plate straps extend horizontally across the tops of
the plates, and thus also act as "hold-downs" for the separators. The separators are held up
by two rectangular rubber bridges which fit Mito slotted extension lugs cast into the lower
corners of the outside negative plates. An outside negative having these extension lugs is
shown in Figure 303.

  [Fig. 301 Cover of Prest-O-Light farm lighting cell]

  [Fig. 302 Parts of Prest-O-Light farm lighting cell: nut,
   stud, terminal, hard rubber bushing]

  [Fig. 303a Parts of Prest-O-Light farming light cell: glass
   jar, rubber jar, rubber cell connector, glass cell connector]

  [Fig. 303b Parts of Prest-O-Light farm lighting cell: positive
   plate and outside negative plate]

  [Fig. 303c Parts of Prest-O-Light farm lighting cell: long
   lead jumper, jumper, separator, short lead jumper]

Specific Gravity of Electrolyte. The values of the specific gravity of Prest-O-Lite farm lighting
batteries are as follows:

Battery fully charged reads 1.250 Battery three-fourths charged reads 1.230 Battery one-half
charged reads 1.215 Battery one-fourth charged reads 1.200 Battery discharged completely reads
1.180

These readings are to be taken with the electrolyte at a temperature of 80° Fahrenheit. Readings
taken at other temperatures should be converted to 80°. To convert readings at a lower temperature
to the values they would have at 80°, subtract one point for every two and one-half degrees
temperature difference. For example, suppose a cell reads 1.225 gravity at 60°. To find what
the gravity would be if the temperature of the electrolyte were 80° divide the difference between
80° and 60° by 2-1/2, or 80° minus 60° divided by 21/2 equals 8. The gravity at 80° would therefore
be 1.225 minus .008, or 1.217, which is the value of specific gravity to use. If the specific
gravity is read at a higher temperature than 80°, divide the difference between 80° and the
temperature at which the gravity reading was taken by 21/2, and add the result to the actual
gravity reading obtained. If, for example, the gravity were 1.225 at 100°, the gravity at 80°
would be 1.225 plus .008, or 1.233.

Charging Rates. The normal charging rate to be used in giving Prest-O-Lite batteries a regular
charge or overcharge are as follows:

Battery      Charging Rate -------      ------------- 5 F.P.L.     5.0 amps. 7 F.P.L.     7.5
amps. 9 F.P.L.     10.0 amps. 11 F.P.L.    12.5 amps. 13 F.P.L.    15.0 amps. 15 F.P.L.   
17.5 amps.

Rebuilding Prest-O-Lite Farm Lighting Batteries

Opening the Cell.

1. Make sure that the cell is as fully charged as possible. Since it is not very convenient
to charge a single cell, a good time to open a cell for cleaning and repairing is immediately
after the battery has been given an overcharge. See page 455.

2. Disconnect the cell from the adjoining ones.

3. Heat a thin bladed putty knife and insert it under the edge of the lead-antimony cover to
melt the sealing compound. Run the knife all round the cover, heating it again if it should
become too cool to cut the compound readily.

4. Grasp the lead posts above the cover and lift up gradually. This will bring up the cover,
plates, and separators.

5. Place the plates on a clean board for examination. Use the instructions given on pages 339
to 346. Do not keep the plates out of the electrolyte long enough to let them dry, and the
negatives heat up. If you cannot examine the plates as soon as you have removed them immerse
them in 1.250 acid contained in a lead or non-metallic vessel until you can examine them.

6. In renewing the electrolyte, pour in as much new 1.250 acid as there was old electrolyte
in the jar. (It is assumed that the electrolyte was up to the lower ridge of the glass jar
before the cell was opened.) The new electrolyte must not have a temperature above 100 degrees
when it is poured into the jar.

7. The separators can be pulled out easily when the plates are laid on their sides. All that
is necessary is to remove the small rubber bridge at the bottom corners of the plates. The
separators can then be pulled out. If the old separators are to be used again brush off any
material that may be adhering to them, and keep them wet with 1.250 acid until they are replaced
between the plates. Any separators that show cracks or holes, or that split while being replaced
between the plates should be thrown away and new ones used.

8. It is not necessary to remove the sediment from the bottom of the jar unless it is within
one half inch of the bottom of the plates. If the sediment is to be removed, carefully pour
off the clear electrolyte into a lead, hard rubber, or earthenware jar, if the electrolyte
is to be used again.

9. If one or two of the plates in either positive or negative groups need to be replaced it
is best to burn a new plate to the strap without removing the peened cover. This is done by
blocking under the row of plate lugs with metal blocks after cutting off old plate and cleaning
the surface of strap. Insert new plate, the lug of which has been cut about 1/4 inch short,
to allow for new metal. Choosing small oblong iron blocks of suitable size, build a form about
the plate lug which fits same well. Now with a torch and burning lead fuse the new plate onto
the old strap. When cool remove and test joint by pulling and slightly twisting the plate at
the same time.

Sometimes one group of a starting and lighting battery may be in sufficiently good condition
to pay to combine it with a new group, but this condition will very rarely, if ever, be met
in farm lighting cell service. We advise the replacement of the complete cell element if either
group is worn out, for the cost of repairs and of new group will probably not be warranted
by the short additional life which the remaining old group will give.

10. Putting Repaired Cell Back into Service. After having finished all necessary cleaning,
replacement, or repairs, remove all old sealing material, return the element with attached
lead cover to the cell jar. It is not necessary to reseal the cover to the jars this sealing
is essential only for insurance against breakage or leakage in shipment.

Add through the vent plug opening sufficient cool acid of 1.250 Sp. Gr. to reestablish the
proper electrolyte level, which means that the electrolyte is brought up to the lower moulded
glass ridge near the top of jar.

Connect the cell with any other repaired cells and charge at normal rate already indicated
under "charging rates" until dell voltage reads 2.5 or above, at 80°. The positive to cadmium
voltage should be at least 0.10 volts less than cell voltage itself. When this condition is
obtained cell may be replaced in operating circuit with others and should give satisfactory
service.

EXIDE FARM LIGHTING BATTERIES.

Exide Farm lighting Batteries are made with sealed glass jars, open glass jars, and sealed
rubber jars, each of which will be described.

Batteries with Sealed Glass Jars.

Two types with sealed glass jars are made, these being the Delco Light Type, and the Exide type.

1. Delco-Light Type. This type is shown in Fig. 294. The cell shown is a pilot cell, there
being two of these in each battery as explained below.

These cells are made in two sizes, the KXG-7, 7 plate, 80 ampere hour cell, and the KXG-13,
a 13 plate, 160 ampere hour cell. These cells are assembled into a 32 volt, 16 cell battery,
or a 110 volt, 56 cell battery.

The plate groups are supported from the cover, the weight being carried by the wooden cover
supports as shown in Fig. 294. The strap posts are threaded, and are clamped to the cover and
supports by means of alloy nuts, just as is the case in Exide automobile batteries.

A hard rubber supporting rod or lock pin extending across the bottoms of the plates holds the
separators in position and prevents the plates from flaring out at the bottom. A soft rubber
bumper fastened on each end of the rod acts as a cushion to prevent jar breakage in shipping.

The hard rubber cover overlaps the flanged top of the jar, to which it is sealed with special
compound.

Battery Gauges and Instruments for Testing.

Every set of Delco-Light batteries has either one or two cells equipped with a pilot ball.
Such a cell is known as a PILOT CELL. Fig. 294.

Pilot Cells are used to indicate to the USER the approximate state of charge or discharge of
the battery.

The pilot ball is a battery gauge which is UP or DOWN, depending upon the state of charge of
the battery.

Very high temperature affects the operation of the pilot ball. This accounts for-the fact that
occasionally a battery will be charged and the pilot ball will be at the bottom of the pocket.
A few hours later, after the electrolyte has cooled, the pilot ball will rise to the top.

We urge that the user be made to feel that the pilot ball is an excellent gauge and a good
signal to watch in connection with the care and operation of his Delco-Light plant and battery.
(Further mention will be made of the pilot ball in connection with the subject of proper operation.)

It is necessary that the maximum specific gravity of pilot cells be as near 1.220 as possible.
Any great variation higher or lower will affect the operation of the pilot balls. Therefore,
every effort should be made to adjust the maximum specific gravity of pilot cells to 1.220
when placed in service.

Batteries equipped with one pilot cell contain a white pilot ball which will be up when the
specific gravity of the electrolyte is approximately 1.185. This ball will drop DOWN when the
specific gravity falls a little below 1.185.

In other words, the pilot ball will float at a specific gravity of 1:185 or higher, and will
sink at a specific gravity lower than 1.185.

Therefore, when the pilot ball is UP, the battery is more than half charged. When the pilot
ball is DOWN, the battery is more than half discharged.

Batteries equipped with two pilot cells have one cell which contains a white ball and the other
cell a white ball with a blue band.

The plain white ball will be UP when the specific gravity is approximately 1.175. The blue
band ball will be UP when the specific gravity is approximately 1.205.

When both balls are UP, the battery is charged. When DOWN, the battery is discharged. The blue
band ball will drop soon after the battery starts on discharge, or, in other words, when the
specific gravity falls below 1.205. The white ball will remain UP until the specific gravity
falls below 1.175.

The Ampere-Hour Meter

The ampere-hour meter, Fig. 304, is an instrument for indicating to the user the state of charge
of the battery at all times and serves to-stop the plant automatically so equipped, when the
battery is charged. (Further mention will be made of the ampere hour meter on page 471.)

In order to check the speed of the ampere-hour meter, use the following rule: On charge, the
armature disc should give 16 revolutions in 30 seconds, with a charging rate of 15 amperes;
on discharge, the armature disc should give 20 revolutions in 30 seconds, with a discharging
rate of 15 amperes.

  [Fig. 304 Delco-Light Ampere-Hour Meter]

Hydrometers

The standard hydrometer for service men is known as the Type V-2B.

A special type hydrometer showing three colored bands in place of numbers has been designed
for users.

The bands are red, green and black. When the hydrometer test shows the bottom of the red band
in the electrolyte, the battery, whether in glass or rubber jar, is discharged. When the top
of the green band is out of the electrolyte, the glass jar battery is charged. The top of the
black band out of the electrolyte indicates the rubber jar battery is charged.

When and How to Charge Battery

Plants with Average Loads

Loads of legs than ten (10) amperes can be taken directly from the battery, until:

1. The large hand on the ampere-hour meter reaches 12, or

2. Both pilot balls are down, or

3. Hydrometer test shows bottom of red band in the electrolyte.

If any or all of the three gauges listed above show the battery discharged, the plant should
be started and operated continuously until the battery is charged, as indicated by:

1. Ampere-hour meter hand at FULL, or

2. Both pilot balls UP, or

3. Hydrometer test shows top of FULL band out of electrolyte.

(NOTE: Any one or all of the above three items may indicate battery charged. Meter hand at
FULL would necessitate both balls UP. If both balls are not up, set hand back and charge to
bring them up; then set hand at FULL.)

Should the user be operating for two or three hours with a seven or eight-ampere load, it would
be more efficient to run the plant to carry this load. This only applies for those cases where
the battery is partly discharged.

Carry Heavy Loads Greater Than 10 Amperes.

If there is a constant load of 10 amperes or more, the plant should be started up when the
heavy load comes on. When the heavy load is off, the plant may be stopped, but it would be
entirely satisfactory to allow the plant to continue to run until "Charged," as indicated by:

1.

In any case, plant should be run until battery is "Charged" at least once a week.

Always Start Charging When Battery Gauges Indicate Battery Discharged.

On ampere-hour meter plants, when the hand is at FULL, the plant cannot be operated on account
of the ignition circuit being broken.

In such cases allow load to be taken from the battery until the hand travels back sufficiently
to allow the plant to run.

Occasionally the plant and battery are used to carry continuous loads of from 10 to 15 amperes
each night, with practically no day load. This condition necessitates running the plant to
carry the load, but at the same time the battery is continually receiving from 10 to 15 amperes
charge, with the result that the battery may receive too much charging. This would be indicated
by the battery bubbling freely every time the plant is operated. To prevent this condition,
the user should be instructed to carry the load off the battery frequently enough to prevent
continual bubbling.

Where Small Load Is Used.

There are many installations where the battery capacity is sufficient to last several weeks.
On installations of this kind it is advisable to charge the battery to FULL at least once a week.

The dealer or service man should use his own judgment on the preceding instructions as to which
is best suited for the different conditions encountered.

Regularly on the first of each month, regardless of whether or not the battery has been used,
a special charge, called the Equalizing Charge, should be given.

The monthly equalizing charge is a NECESSARY precautionary measure to insure that the user
will bring each cell in the battery up to maximum gravity at least once a month. It also provides
a means on the ampere-hour meter plants to set the ampere-hour meter hand at FULL when the
battery is FULL.

The users should be cautioned to inform the service man or dealer immediately if any cell fails
to bubble at the end of an equalizing charge, when all others are bubbling freely. This will
enable the service man to inspect such cells for trouble and remedy same before the trouble
becomes serious. (See further information under inspection and repairs.)

INSPECTION TRIPS

Undercharging or injurious sulphation is the most common trouble encountered. Undercharging
causes the plates to blister and bulge, and in place of good gray edges on the negative plates
and good brown color edges on the positive plates, the edges will show a faded color, with
very little brown color showing on the edges of the positive plates.

Overcharging is not so evident on inspection, except that in such cases the active material
from the positive plates, which is brown in color, will be thrown to the bottom as sediment
more rapidly than the sediment would accumulate due to normal wear.

Heavy usage on a battery will also cause considerable sediment in the bottom of the cells,
so that it is necessary to investigate carefully whether it is overcharging or overwork. A
few questions as to method of operation and load requirements will aid in deciding the cause
of excessive sediment. (See When and How to Charge, page 468.)

Sediment Space Filled.

When the space below the plates is filled up with sediment and touching the plates, the cell
becomes short-circuited and will deteriorate very rapidly. It will be noticed, however, that
the sediment is heaped in the middle of the cell. If the cells are unbolted and unshaken, it
will level the sediment and leave a space between the sediment and plates. It is very important
that the sediment be shaken down before the cell becomes short-circuited. This will very often
prolong the life of the battery a number of months. When the sediment space is completely filled,
approximately all the active material will be out of the positive plates.

A thorough study should be made as to the general condition of the battery and method of operation
before forming an opinion or suggesting any change in method of operation.

Check Ampere-Hour Meters

On plants which have ampere-hour meters, the meter should be checked as to its speed on discharge,
and also check position of the meter hand at the time of inspection, to see if it checks with
the specific gravity and the pilot balls. (See Ampere Hour Meter, page 467.)

It will generally be found that when a battery is sulphated, it is operating in very low specific
gravity, or, in other words, the charges have not been carried far enough to drive all the
acid out of the plates.

A battery that is not receiving quite enough charge may not as a whole become "sulphated,"
but several cells might become considerably weaker than the others and become "sulphated,"
causing trouble in these particular cells. Such cells will not bubble freely, or possibly not
at all, when the other cells are bubbling freely. Therefore, a few questions to the user will
generally help in locating the low cells.

Cells that are in trouble, or which soon will be, can very easily be picked out by making a
few tests on the battery. Therefore, on all inspections, regardless of the age of a battery,
it is suggested that the following tests be made: Take a specific gravity reading of all cells
and note if there are any cells much lower than the others. Amy cells having a specific gravity
of 30 points lower than the average will generally be found to be in trouble, unless these
cells happen to be low from having had spillage in shipment, replaced with water. (This condition,
however, should not exist in future installations if the spillage is properly taken care of,
as has been explained on page 482.)

Voltage Readings

After taking a specific gravity reading, a voltage reading of each cell should be taken. Voltage
readings taken on open circuit are of no value, so while taking these readings the battery
should be on discharge, having at least a discharge of 15 amperes. A good way to get this discharge
is to hold the starting switch in and set mixing valve lever at lean point or wide open.

A low or defective cell will show a voltage reading .10 to .20 volts lower than the other cells
on discharge, while a reversed cell will show a reading in the reversed direction when on discharge,
especially on heavy discharge.

The voltage readings are a sure check if taken in connection with the specific gravity. When
you have low specific gravity and low voltage on the same cells, it is a sure indication of
low cells. These cells should be inspected for the probable cause of their being low. Shorting
of the lugs at bottom of plates and moss bridging across at bottom of the elements, or possibly
a split separator, will generally be the main trouble.

When any of these conditions exist, it is best to take the low cells back to your shop for repairs.

When there is absolutely no indication why the cells are low, they can be cut out of the battery
on discharge and put in on charge, until they come up.

The following is a good example of readings taken on a battery with a 10-ampere discharge and
having four low cells, 4, 8, 11 and 16. The battery had been giving poor service, due to insufficient
charging:

Cell No.     Specific Gravity     Volts
1               1.200             1.98
2               1.180             1.95
3               1.205             1.98
4               1.150             1.75
5               1.190             1.95
6               1.195             1.98
7               1.200             1.98
8               1.130             1.70
9               1.200             1.95
10              1.205             1.98
11              1.100             1.40
12              1.190             1.95
13              1.180             1.95
14              1.195             1.98
15              1.190             1.95
16              0.000             zero or
                                    reversal

The main thing to consider in checking voltage readings is the variation from the average.
The average voltage readings will vary, depending on the state of charge of the battery when
the readings are taken.

REPAIRS

To repair, the following equipment is necessary:

1. Portable lead burning outfit.
2. A suitable blow torch.
3. Standard sealing nut wrench.
4. File (shoemaker's rasp).
5. Pair of pliers.
6. Putty knife.
7. Pair of tin snips.
8. Wooden blocks to support elements while being worked upon.
9. Good supply of battery parts consisting of:
   KXG-13 Glass jars
   KXG-13 Pilot jars
   KXG-13 Positive groups
   KXG-13 Negative groups
   KXG-13 Round rods
   KXG-13 Vent plugs
   Sealing nuts
   Rubber gaskets
   Wood separators
   KXG-13 Rubber covers
   KXG-7 Round rods
   Lead pins
   Carboy electrolyte (including retainer).
   KXG-7 Pilot jars
   KXG-7 Glass jars
   KXG-7 Positive groups
   KXG-7 Negative groups
   Outside negative plates
   KXG-7 Rubber covers
   Emergency repair straps

Disassembling a Cell

The glass jar battery covers are sealed to the jars by sealing compound, which may be softened
very easily with a blow-torch.

When a blow-torch or an open flame is used for softening the sealing compound, the vent plug
MUST be removed before applying a flame. It is also important to blow into the vent after the
plug has been removed in order to expel any gas that may have collected in the space above
the electrolyte in the cell.

If the gas is held in place by leaving the vent plug in, it is apt to explode when an open
flame or intense heat is applied to the cover.,

Removing covers may be greatly facilitated by suspending the cell by the terminals, as shown
in Fig. 305. Care should be taken to make this suspension so that the bottom of the jar will
not be more than two inches above the table. A pad of excelsior should be placed under it to
avoid breaking the glass jar when it drops.

  [Fig. 305 Softening sealing compound, Delco-Light cell]

After the sealing compound has been sufficiently softened, the cover may be loosened by inserting
a hot putty knife, as shown in Fig. 306, There is no danger of breaking the cover by this operation
if the cover has been sufficiently warmed. After the jar of electrolyte has dropped, the element
should be removed from the jar and carefully placed across the top of it, so that the solution
upon the plates will drain back into the jar. (See Fig. 307.)

  [Fig. 306 Removing Delco-Light cell cover]

  [Fig. 307 Draining element, Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 308 Removing cover of Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 309 Removing lock pin, Delco-Light cell]

After element has drained, place on wooden blocks, as shown in Fig. 308, and remove cover.
Clean the sealing compound from the cover and jar immediately with a putty knife. Turn element
upside down with posts through holes in bench and remove lead pin and rubber bumper and withdraw,
lock pin. (Fig. 309.) The separators may then be withdrawn from the group. (Fig. 310.)

  [Fig. 310 Removing separatots, Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 311 Assembling separators, Delco-Light cell]

Assembling

Place the positive and negative groups upside down with posts through holes in bench and slide
in separators. The wood and rubber separators are inserted as follows: The rubber separator
is placed against the grooved side of the wood separator, and the two are then slipped between
the negative and positive plates with the rubber separator next to the positive plate. (See
Fig. 311.)

Inserting Locking Pin

A rubber bumper is pinned on one end of the lock pin by means of a lead pin, and the lock pin
is then slipped into place with the lock pin insulating washer placed between the outside negative
plates and the wood separators. (See Fig. 312.)

A rubber bumper is then slipped over the other end of the lock pin and secured by a lead pin.

Place element on wooden blocks and fasten cover, as shown in Fig. 313.

  [Fig. 313 Fastening cover, Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 314 Preparing cover for sealing, Delco-Light cell]

Sealing Covers

Be sure all old sealing compound and traces of electrolyte are removed from the cover. Heat
sealing compound until it can be handled like putty, roll out into a strip about 1/2 inch in
diameter, place strip of compound around inside edge of cover (Fig. 314) and heat to melting
point with blow-torch. The top of jar should also be heated to insure a tight seal. Compound
can be melted in a suitable vessel and a 1/2 inch strip poured around cover.

When sealing compound and jar have been heated sufficiently, turn jar upside down (Fig. 315)
and carefully place jar over element and press gently into compound. (Do not press hard.) Immediately
place jar and element upright, and press cover firmly into place. (Press hard.) Finally, tighten
sealing nuts. The cell is now ready for the electrolyte.

  [Fig. 315 Sealing jar of Delco-Light cell]

Filling Cell with Electrolyte

Repaired cells should be filled with electrolyte of 1.200 specific gravity, or with water,
as the case may require.

Standard Delco-Light electrolyte of 1.220 specific gravity may be purchased from the Delco
Light distributor. The 1.220 electrolyte should be reduced to 1.200 by adding a very small
amount of distilled water. This should be thoroughly mixed by pouring the solution from one
battery jar into another. The 1.200 specific gravity electrolyte may then be added to the newly
assembled cell until flush with the water line.

Charging

The completed KXG-13 cell should be placed on a 12-ampere charge and kept on charge until maximum
gravity has been reached. A KXG-7 cell should be charged at a 6-ampere rate.

Adjusting Gravity of Electrolyte

If the maximum gravity is above 1.220, draw off some of the electrolyte and refill to water
line with distilled water. The charge should then be continued for at least one hour to thoroughly
mix the electrolyte before taking another hydrometer reading. It may be necessary to repeat
this operation.

If the maximum gravity is below 1.220, pour off the electrolyte into a glass jar or a suitable
receptacle, and then refill the cell with 1.220 electrolyte. Charge for one hour to thoroughly
mix the solution before checking readings.

NOTE: Gravity readings in adjusting the electrolyte should always be taken in connection with
thermometer readings, making necessary temperature corrections. This is particularly important
in adjusting electrolyte in pilot cells.

HOW TO REPAIR DELCO-LIGHT CELLS

Treating Broken Cells

Whenever a shipment of batteries is received in which any of the jars have been broken, the
first thing to do is to carefully remove the elements from the broken jars to prevent damage
to the plates or separators. These elements should be placed in distilled water to prevent
further drying. The plates will not be damaged in any way and can be restored to a healthy
condition by charging in 1.200 specific gravity at a 12-ampere rate for the 13-plate cell or,
6-ampere rate for the 7-plate cell, until maximum gravity is reached. (See Charging and Adjustment
of Electrolyte, explained on page 481.)

Treating Spilled Cells

If the spillage is more than one inch below the water level, it should be replaced by electrolyte
of 1.200 specific gravity and charged to maximum gravity.

Treating Badly Sulphated Cells That Have Been in Service

When cells are removed from an installation to make repairs, they are usually badly sulphated,
which means that considerable acid is in the plates.

In charging such cells, use distilled water in place of electrolyte, as this will allow the
acid to come out of the plates more readily. The KXG-13 cells should be charged at about 12
amperes and the KXG-7 cells at 6 amperes. Cells badly sulphated when charged at the low rate
will require from 50 to 100 hours to reach maximum gravity. Extreme cases will require even
longer charging.

In case it is impossible to read the gravity after the cells have been on charge a sufficient
length of time, pour out the solution and use 1.220 specific gravity.

The charge should then be continued further to insure that maximum gravity has been reached.

CAUTION: Should the temperature of the electrolyte approach 110° F., the charging rate should
be reduced or the charge stopped until the cell has cooled.

Treating Reversed Cells

A complete battery may be reversed if the battery is completely discharged and its voltage
is not sufficient to overcome any residual magnetism the generator might have. Under such conditions
the negative plates will begin to discolor brown and the positive turn gray. Such a case would
be extremely rare.

The remedy is to first completely discharge the cells to get rid of the charge in the wrong
direction. Then short-circuit them. (Connect a wire across the terminals.) Then charge them
in the right direction at a low rate. (12 amperes for a KXG-13 cell, or 6 amperes for a KXG-7
cell.) Charge until the specific gravity reaches a maximum. If the battery is operated reversed
for any length of time, the negatives will throw off their active material and become useless.

A single cell may become reversed by gradually slipping behind the rest of the cells in a set,
due to insufficient charging, until it becomes so low that it will reverse on each discharge.
This condition cannot be corrected by giving the regular charge, but it will be necessary to
give an equalizing charge, continuing the charge until the cell is in normal condition. (Be
sure to make temperature corrections when taking hydrometer readings.) If the cell appears
to require an excessive amount of charge to restore it to condition, it should be removed and
taken to the repair shop for a separate charge.

If the cell has been allowed to operate in a reversed condition to such an extent that the
entire material of the negative plates has turned brown, both positive and negative groups
should be discarded.

Removing Impurities

Impurities, such as iron, salt (chlorine) or oil, may accidentally get into a cell, due to
careless handling of distilled water.

Iron is dissolved by sulphuric acid and the positive plates become affected, change color (dirty
yellow) and wear rapidly. The cell becomes different from the rest in gravity, voltage and
bubbling. The remedy is to discard the electrolyte as soon as possible, flush the plates and
separators in several changes of water, thoroughly wash the jar, use new electrolyte and then
proceed in same manner as explained for the treatment of badly sulphated cells, page 482.

Chlorine has an effect about as described for iron, and is evident by the odor of chlorine
gas. The remedy is the same as for iron.

Oil in the electrolyte, if allowed to get into the pores of the plates, will fill them and
lower the capacity very much. It affects negative plates much more than positives. Probably
the only remedy in this case is new plates.

Impurities of any nature should be removed as quickly as possible.

Clearing High Resistance Short Circuits

A high resistance short is caused by the sediment falling from the plates and lodging between
the positive and negative lugs. As a rule this condition will occur only when severe sulphation
is present in the plates.

A cell in this condition can be repaired by removing the element and clearing the short circuit.
The wood separators should then be withdrawn and replaced by new ones. Lock pin insulating
washers. should be installed land the element reassembled in the jar and charged to maximum
gravity.

Clearing Lug Shorts

Short-circuited lugs are caused by excessive sulphation. The outside negative bulges and the
bottom lug bends over and touches the adjacent positive lug. This can be remedied by removing
both outside negative plates and burning on new plates which have already been charged and
inserting lock pin insulating washers.

Putting Repaired Cells Back in Service

When placing a new or repaired cell in a battery which is in service, connect in the cell at
the beginning of a charge. This will insure that the new or repaired cell is started off in
good condition, because this charge is of the nature of an initial charge to these cells.

Charging Outside Negative Plates

Individual negative plates are always received dry, which makes it necessary to charge them
before using. The best way to charge such plates is as follows: Set up 7 loose negative plates
in a KXG-13 jar together with a good positive group, using KXG separators to prevent the plates
touching. Then stretch a piece of wire solder across the lugs at the top of the negative plates
and solder the wire to the plates. Fig. 316. The jar may then be filled with 1200 specific
gravity and the plates charged at a 12-ampere rate until maximum gravity is obtained. Never
use negative plates unless they have been treated as described above. After the charge is completed,
the negative plates may be placed in distilled water and kept until ready for use. Always be
sure to give a charge to maximum gravity after burning on new negative plates to an element.

  [Fig. 316 Preparing outside negatives for charging]

Pressing Negative Plates

After badly sulphated cells are recharged, it is sometimes advisable to remove the elements
and, press the negative plates, as explained on page 351. Care should be taken to prevent the
negative plates from drying out while making repairs, in order to avoid the long charge necessary
for dried negative plates.

The battery should be charged to maximum gravity before attempting to press the plates.

It is not necessary and will do no good to press the positive plates.

In some cases the active material may be nearly all out of the outside negative plates and
the inside negatives may be in good condition, in which case new charged plates should be burned
on. (Fig. 322.)

Salvaging Replaced Cells

When it has been necessary to replace cells which have been in service, the elements can very
often be saved and assembled again and used as replacement cells in batteries which are several
years old. In no case should the cells be used as new cells.

The positive plates may be allowed to dry out, but the negatives should be kept in distilled
water and not allowed to dry out in the least. They should not be kept this way indefinitely,
but should be assembled and charged as soon as possible.

Do not attempt to repair groups or plates which have lost as much as half of the active material
in wear, or which have the active material disintegrated and falling out. Such plates should
not be used. This does not apply to small bits of active material knocked out mechanically
and amounting to an extremely small percentage of the whole. Abnormal color indicates possible
impurity, and such plates should be washed and used with caution. Badly cracked or broken plates
should be replaced with new plates or plates from other groups.

Before new negative plates are used they should be fully charged. (See Charging Negative Plates,
page 484.)

Always use new wood separators when assembling repaired cells.

Repairing Lead Parts

The portable carbon burning outfit used for battery repairs is operated from the battery itself,
making it possible to make repairs at the user's residence without using a gas flame.

This outfit can be secured from the Delco-Light Company, Dayton, Ohio, and consists of a carbon
holder with cable, clamp, and one-fourth inch carbon rods. Six cells are usually required to
properly heat the carbon. If it is completely discharged an outside source must be used. For
this purpose a six-volt automobile battery is suitable, or a tray of demonstrating batteries,
one terminal being connected to the connection to be burned, the other to the cable of the
burning tool. A little experience will soon demonstrate the number of cells necessary to give
a satisfactory heat. The cable is connected by means of the clamp to a cell in the battery,
the required number of cells away from the joint to be burned. Care should be taken that contact
is made by the clamp, the lead being scraped clean before the connection is made. The carbon
should be sharpened to a long point like a lead pencil and should project not more than 2 inches
from the holder. (Fig. 317.)

  [Fig. 317 Repairing broken post, Delco-Light cell]

After being used a short time, the carbon will not heat properly, due to a film of scale formed
on the surface. This should be cleaned off with a file.

In case of lead burning, additional lead to make a flush joint should not be added until the
metal of the pieces to be joined has melted. The carbon should be moved around to insure a
solid joint at all points.

In case a post is broken off under the cover, proceed as follows: To make repairs take an old
group and cut off the post about one-half way down. Saw off the post to be repaired to such
a length that when the new post is burned on the length of the post will be approximately the
same length as the original post.

Repairing Broken Posts.

Make a half circle mould out of a piece of tin or galvanized iron, as shown in Fig. 317. Burn
solid the side of the post facing up, file it around and then turn the group over, place the
form on the burned side and proceed to complete the burning operation.

Caution:

1. Always use clean lead.

2. Do not clean the lead and let it stand for any length of time before starting to burn. If
it is allowed to stand it will oxidize and prevent a good burning operation.

3. Burn with an are and not with a red hot carbon.

Burning on Straps

Place the strap to be burned in a vise and split the end through the center and then bend the
two halves over to form a foot, as shown in Fig. 318. Make a mould out of a piece of tin or
galvanized iron and place this mould around the post to which this strap is to be burned. (Fig.
319.) Then proceed to burn the post and strap together.

  [Fig. 318 Splitting end of strap, Delco-Light cell]

When a union is made between the strap and the post a small amount of new clean lead should
be burned on the top of the foot to reinforce this point. Care should be taken not to get the
mould too high, as this will cause trouble in getting the carbon down to the foot and the post.

  [Fig. 319 Burning on negative strap, Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 320 Auxiliary strap, Delco-Light cell]

  [Fig. 321 Positioning auxiliary strap, Delco-Light cell]

How to Eliminate Burning on Straps by Use of an Auxiliary Strap

A very good way to repair broken straps without the burning operation is to use the auxiliary
strap shown in Fig. 320. This strap is slipped over the post of the terminal or strap which
is broken and the sealing nut is then clamped down on the strap, as shown in Fig. 321. These
straps may be obtained from the Delco-Light Distributors or from the Delco-Light factory at
Dayton, Ohio.

Burning on New Plates

  [Fig. 322 Burning on outside negative plate, Delco-Light cell]

When it is necessary to burn on new plates, carefully clean with a file the lead on both the
plate and the common strap to which all plates of the group are attached. Block up the plate
with thin boards or wood separators until it is spaced the proper distance from the adjacent
plate. Care should be taken to see that the side and bottom edge of the plate to be burned
on is in line with the other plates of the group. Proceed to burn on the plate by drawing a
small blaze or are and do not attempt to burn with just a glowing carbon. (Fig. 322.)

If only a glowing carbon is used the result will be a smeary mass and in the majority of cases
will not hold, due to the fact that it is not welded but simply attached in one or two points.

The principle of lead burning is to weld or burn two parts into one solid mass and not merely
attach one to the other.

Keeping Wood Separators In Stock

No wood separators should be used except those furnished by the Delco-Light Company. These
should be kept in distilled water, to which has been added 1.220 electrolyte in the proportion
of one part to ten parts of water. It is advisable whenever possible to use new separators
when making repairs on a cell. Separators which have been in service are liable to be damaged
by handling.

Freezing Temperature of Electrolyte

The freezing temperatures of electrolyte in the Delco-Light batteries depends upon the specific
gravity of the battery. The Delco-Light battery fully charged, with a specific gravity of 1.220,
should not freeze above a temperature of 30 degrees below zero. Since, however, the freezing
point rises very rapidly with a decrease in specific gravity, special care should be taken
to keep batteries charged when temperatures below zero are encountered. The following table
shows freezing temperatures of several different gravities of electrolyte.

Specific Gravity       Freezing Point ----------------       -------------- 1.100         
19° F. above zero. 1.150                   5° F. above zero. 1.175                   6° F.
below zero. 1.200                  16° F. below zero. 1.220                  31° F. below zero.

At the temperature given, the electrolyte does not freeze solid, but forms a slushy mass of
crystals, which does not always result in jar breakage.

Care of Cells in Stock

Frequently a Dealer or Distributor will have several sets of new batteries in stock for five
or six months. In this case, the cells should be given a freshening charge before putting into
service. This charge should consist of charging the cells to maximum gravity.

Cells received broken in transit or cells sent in for repairs should be repaired and charged
as soon as possible and put into service immediately. This eliminates the possibility of the
cells standing idle over a long period in which they would need a freshening charge before
they could be used.

However, if such cells must be kept in stock, they can be maintained in a healthy condition
by keeping on charge at a one fifth ampere rate for 13-plate cells and one-tenth ampere rate
for 7-plate cells.

Taking Batteries Out of Commission

If a battery is not to be used at all for a period not longer than about 9 months, it can be
left idle if it is first treated as follows: Add sufficient water to bring the electrolyte
up to the water line in all cells and then give an equalizing charge, continuing the charge
until the specific gravity of each cell is at a maximum, five consecutive hourly readings showing
no rise in gravity. As soon as this charge is completed, take out the battery fuse and open
up one or two of the connections between cells so that no current can be taken from the battery.
Have vent plugs in place to minimize evaporation.

If the battery is to be taken out of commission for a longer time than 9 months, the battery
should be fully charged as above and the electrolyte poured off into suitable glass or porcelain
receptacles. The plates should immediately be covered with water for a few hours to prevent
the negatives heating, after which the separators should be removed, the water poured out of
the jars, and the positive and negative groups placed back in the jar for storage. Examine
the separators. If they are cracked or split they should be thrown away. If in good condition
they should be stored for further use in a non-metallic receptacle and covered with water,
to which has been added electrolyte of 1.220 specific gravity, in the proportion of one part
electrolyte to ten of water by volume.

Putting Batteries Into Commission After Being Out of Service

When putting batteries into commission again, if the electrolyte has not been withdrawn, all
that is necessary is to add water to the cells if needed, replace connections, and give an
equalizing charge.

If the electrolyte has been withdrawn and battery disassembled, it should be reassembled, taking
care not to use cracked, split or dried-out separators, and then the cells should be filled
with the old electrolyte, which has been saved, provided no impurity has entered the electrolyte.
After filling, allow the battery to stand for 12 hours and then charge, using 6 amperes for
KXG-7 size and 12 amperes for the KXG-13 size. Charge at this rate until all cells start gassing
freely or temperature rises to 110° F. Then reduce the charging rate one-half, and continue
at this rate until the specific gravity is at a maximum, five consecutive hourly readings showing
no rise in gravity. At least 40 hours will be required for this charge. To obtain these low
rates with the Delco-Light plant, lights or other current-consuming devices must be turned
on while charging.

General Complaints from Users and How to Handle Them.

1. Pilot balls do not come up.

This condition may be caused by

(a) Battery discharged. (b) Weak electrolyte caused by spillage in shipment. (c) Defective ball.

Question the user to determine whether the ball will not come up if the pilot cell is bubbling
freely. Weak electrolyte or a defective ball will require a service trip to determine the one
which is responsible for the ball not rising. (See page 470.)

2. Lights dim-must charge daily.

This condition may be caused by

(a) Discharged battery. (b) Loose dirty connections in battery or line. (c) Low cells in battery.

The user should be questioned to determine whether the battery is being charged sufficiently.
In case the user is positive the battery is charged, the next probable trouble would be that
there were some loose or dirty connections in either plant or battery. Have the user check
for loose connections. Should it be necessary to make an inspection trip, instruct the user
to give battery an equalizing charge so the battery will be fully charged when the inspection
is made.

Low cells can be checked by asking the user if all of the cells bubble freely when equalizing
charge is given. In case user claims several cells fail to bubble, an inspection trip would
be necessary to determine the trouble. (See page 470.)

3. Cells bubbling when on discharge.

This complaint would indicate a reversed cell. (See page 483.)

4. Cells overflowing on charge.

This would mean that the cells were filled too high above water lines.

5. Engine cranks slowly but does not fire.

This would indicate over-discharged battery. Explain to user how to start plant under this
condition.

6. Plant will not crank.

This might be caused by

(a) Blown battery fuse. (b) Battery over-discharged. (c) Loose or broken connection on battery
or switchboard.

OTHER EXIDE FARM LIGHTING BATTERIES

The Exide type is shown in Figure 296. The plates are held in position both by the cover and
by soft rubber support pieces in the bottom of the jar. The support pieces are provided with
holes in which projections on the bottom of the plates are inserted. The cover is of heavy
moulded glass. The separators are of grooved wood in combination with a slotted rubber sheet
(Fig. 297). The strap posts are threaded and are clamped to the cover by means of alloy nuts.
The cover overlaps the top of the jar to which it is sealed with sealing compound. The method
of sealing and unsealing is practically the same as in the Exide Delco-Light Type.

Batteries with Open Glass Jars

Batteries with open glass jars, in addition to the conducting lug, have two hanging lugs for
each plate. The plates are hung from the jar walls by these hanging lugs, as shown in Figs.
323 and 324. The plate straps, instead of being horizontal are vertical and provided with a
tail so that adjacent cells may be bolted together by bolt connectors through the end of the tail.

1. The Exide Cell is shown in Fig. 324. It has a grooved wood separator between each positive
and negative plate. The separators are kept from floating up by a glass "hold-down" laid across
the top. The separators are provided at the top with a pin which rests on the adjoining plates.
The pins together with the plate glass hold-downs keep the separators in Position.

To remove an element it is simply necessary to unbolt the connectors, remove the glass cover
and hold-down and lift wit the element.

2. The Chloride Accumulator cell is shown in Fig. 323. It differs from the Exide only in type
of plates and separators. The positive plates are known as Manchester positives and have the
active material in the form of corrugated buttons which are held in a thick grid, as shown
in Fig. 325. The buttons are brown in color, the same as all positive active material.

The separators, instead of being grooved wood, am each a sheet of wood with six dowels pinned
to it.

The element is removed the same as in the Exide type.

  [Fig. 323 Exide chloride accumulator cell with open glass jar,
   and Fig. 324 Exide cell with open glass jar]

Batteries with Sealed Rubber Jars

1. The Exide cell is shown in Fig. 326. It is assembled similar to Exide starting and lighting
batteries, except that the plates are considerably thicker, wood and rubber separators are
used, and the terminal posts are shaped to provide for bolted instead of burned-on connection.
The method of sealing and unsealing the cells is the same as in Exide starting and lighting
batteries.

All instructions already given for glass for cells apply to rubber jar cells except for a few
differences in assembling and disassembling.

Care should be taken to keep the water level at least 1/2 inch above plates at all times as
the evaporation is very rapid in rubber jar cells.

The temperature should be watched on charging to prevent overheating. Never allow temperature
to go above 110° F.

Unlike the glass jar cells the sediment space in the rubber jar is not sufficient to take care
of all the active material in the positive plates. On repairs, therefore, always clean out
the sediment and prevent premature short circuits.

  [Fig. 325 Manchester positive plates, and
   Fig. 326 Exide cell with sealed rubber jar]

WESTINGHOUSE FARM LIGHTING BATTERIES

Jars. Westinghouse Farm Lighting Battery jars are made of glass, with a 5/16 inch wall. The
jars are pressed with the supporting ribs for the elements an integral part from a mass of
molten glass. A heavy flange is pressed around the upper edge to strengthen the jar.

Top Construction. A sealed-in cover is used similar to that used in starting and lighting batteries.
The opening around the post hole is sealed with compound.

Plates. Pasted plates are used. The positives are 1/4 inch thick, and the negatives 3/16 inch.
Posts are 13/16 inch in diameter.

Separators. A combination of wood and perforated rubber sheets is used.

Opening and Setting-Up Westinghouse Farm Lighting Batteries

  [Fig. 327 Westinghouse farm lighting cell]

It is preferable that the temperature never exceed 100 deg. Fahrenheit nor fall below 10 deg.
in the place where the battery is set up. If the temperature is liable to drop below 10 degrees
the battery should be kept in a fully charged condition.

1. Remove all excelsior and the other packing material from the top of the cells. Take cells
out carefully and set on the floor. Do not drop or handle roughly. Be sure to remove the lead
top connectors from each compartment.

2. Cells should be placed 1/4 inch apart. Also, cells should be placed alternately so that
positive post of one cell is adjacent to negative post of the next cell. Positive post has
"V" shape shoulder and the negative post has a square shoulder.

3. Grease all posts, straps and nuts with vaseline.

4. Connect positive posts of each cell to negative post of adjacent cell, using top connectors
furnished. Top connectors are made so as to fit when connection is made between positive post
of one cell and negative post of next cell. Use long connector between end cells of upper and
lower shelves.

5. With all connections between cells in position, join the remaining positive post with a
connection marked "Positive" leading from the electric generator. Do likewise with the remaining
negative post.

6. If liquid level in any cell is 1 inch or more below the "Liquid Line" on side of glass jar,
some liquid has been spilled and must be replaced. This should be done by an experienced person.

7. Immediately after installation operate electric generator and charge battery until gas bubbles
rise freely through the liquid in all cells. A reading with the hydrometer syringe which is
furnished with the battery should be taken, When the hydrometer float reads between 1.240 and
1.250, the battery is fully charged.

8. The time required to complete the charging operation mentioned above may vary from one to
several hours, depending upon the length of time the battery has been in transit. During the
charge the temperature of the cells should not be permitted to rise above 110 deg. Fahrenheit.
If this condition occurs discontinue the charge or decrease the charge rate until cells have
cooled off.

9. When charge is complete replace vent plugs.

The Relation Between Various Sizes of Westinghouse Farm Light Batteries and Work to be Done

The size of the battery furnished with complete farm lighting units vary greatly. Sometimes
the battery size is varied with the size of the engine and generator, while again the same
size of battery may be used for several sizes of engines and generators. In making replacements,
while it is always necessary to retain the same number of cells, it is not necessary to retain
the same size of cells.

Usually increasing the cell size increases the convenience to the owner and prolongs the life
of the battery to an amount which warrants the higher cost.

With a larger battery, danger of injury through overcharging is lessened, the load on the battery
is more easily carried and the engine and generator operate less frequently.

In order to give an idea of various battery capacities, below is a table showing the number
of 32 volt, 25-watt lamps which may be lighted for various lengths of time from sixteen cells.
The number of hours shows the length of time that the lamps will operate.

Table A

Type     3 Hours     5 Hours     8 Hours ----     -------     -------     ------- G-7     
22 Lamps    14 Lamps    10 Lamps G-9      28 Lamps    19 Lamps    13 Lamps G-11     32 Lamps
24 Lamps    15 Lamps G-13     41 Lamps    29 Lamps    19 Lamps G-15     47 Lamps    33 Lamps
22 Lamps G-17     54 Lamps    38 Lamps    25 Lamps

Note:--Based on 32-Volt 25-Watt Lamps.

For example--The table shows opposite G-7 that, with the battery fully charged, twenty-two
lamps may be lighted for three hours, fourteen lamps for five hours and ten lamps for eight
hours, by a sixteen cell G-7 battery, without operating the engine and generator.

Motors for operating various household and farm appliances are usually rated either in horsepower
or watts. The following table will give a comparison between horse-power and watts as well
as the number of 25-watt lamps to which these different sizes of motors and appliances correspond.

Table B

H.P. of Motor     No. of Watts     Corresponding No. of
                                   25-Watt Lamps
-------------     ------------     --------------------
1/8                  93               4
1/4                 185               7
1/2                 373              15
3/4                 559              22
1 H.P.              746              30

From table B it will be seen, for example, that a one horsepower motor draws from the battery
373 watts or the same power as do fifteen 25-watt lamps. Then referring to table A, it will
be found that a G-11 battery could operate 15 lamps or this motor alone for 8 hours.

Due to the fact that a motor or electric appliance may become overloaded and therefore actually
use many more watts than the name plate indicates, it is not advisable to operate any motor
of over 1/4 H. P. or even an appliance of over 186 watts on the G-13 or smaller sizes unless
the engine and generator are running.

It is safe, however, to operate motors or other appliances up to 375 watts on the G-15 or G-17
batteries without operating the engine and generator.

WILLARD FARM LIGHTING BATTERIES

  [Fig. 328 Willard Farm Lighting Cell]

The Willard Storage Battery Co. manufactures farm lighting batteries which use sealed glass
jars, or sealed rubber jars. Those using the sealed glass jars include types PH and PA. The
sealed rubber jar batteries include types EM, EEW, IPR, SMW, and SEW. Both types of batteries
are shipped fully charged and filled with electrolyte, and also dry, without electrolyte. The
following instructions cover the installation and preparation for service of these batteries.

Glass Jar Batteries. Fully Charged and Filled With Electrolyte

Each sixteen cell set of batteries is packed in two shipping crates.

One crate, which is stenciled "No. 1" contains:

* 8 Cells. * 18 Bolt Connectors. * 1 Hydrometer Syringe. * 1 Instruction Book.

The other crate which is stenciled "No. 2" contains: 8 Cells

(NOTE:--If the batteries are re-shipped by the manufacturer or distributor, care must be exercised
to see that they are sent out in sets.)

Unpacking

Remove the boards from the tops of the shipping crates and the excelsior which is above the cells.

To straighten the long top connector, grasp the strap firmly with the left hand close to the
pillar post and raise the outer end of the strap until it is in an upright position. Do not
make a short bend near the pillar post. Lift the cells from the case by grasping the glass
jars. Do not attempt to lift them by means of the top connectors.

Clean the outside of the cells by wiping with a damp cloth.

Inspection of Cells.

Inspect each cell to see if the level of the electrolyte is at the proper height. This is indicated
on the jar by a line marked LIQUID LINE.

If the electrolyte is simply a little low and there is no evidence of any having been spilled
(examine packing material for discoloration) add distilled or clean rain water to bring the
level to the proper height.

If the liquid does not cover the plates and the packing material is discolored, it indicates
that some or all of the electrolyte has been lost from the cell either on account of a cracked
jar or overturning of the battery.

If only a small quantity of electrolyte is lost through spilling, the cell should be filled
to the proper height with electrolyte of the same specific gravity as in the other cells. This
cell should then be charged until the gravity has ceased rising. If all the electrolyte is
lost write to the Willard Storage Battery Co., Cleveland, Ohio, for instructions.

Connecting the Cells

Each cell of the type PH battery is a complete unit, sealed in a glass jar. The cells are to
be placed side by side on the battery rack so that the positive terminal of one cell (long
connecting strap) can be connected to the negative terminal (short strap) of the adjacent cell.

Join the positive terminal of one cell to the negative terminal of the adjacent cell and continue
this procedure until all the cells are connected together. This will leave one positive and
one negative terminal of the battery to be connected respectively to the positive and negative
wires from the switchboard. The bend in the top connector should be made about one inch above
the pillar post to eliminate the danger of breakage at the post.

In tightening the bolts do not use excessive force, as there is liability of stripping the threads.

Give the battery a freshening charge before it is put in service. Type PH cells have a gravity
of 1.250 when fully charged, and 1.185 when discharged.

Willard Glass Jar Batteries Shipped "Knock-Down."

Each sixteen cell set of Batteries consists of:

  16 Glass Jars.
  16 Positive Groups.
  16 Negative Groups.
  16 Covers.
  16 Vent Plugs.
  32 Lead Collars.
  32 Lead Keys.
  32 Soft Rubber Washers.
  32 Hard Rubber Rods.
  64 Hard Rubber Nuts.
  18 Bolt Connectors.
  Wood Insulators (the quantity depends upon the size of the cells).
  Sealing Compound.
  Hydrometer.
  Instruction Books.

Electrolyte is not supplied with batteries shipped in a knockdown condition.

Examine all packing material carefully and check the parts with the above list.

Cleaning the Glass Jars

Wash the glass jars and wipe them dry.

Preparing the Covers

Wash the covers and scrub around the under edge to remove all dust. After they are thoroughly
dry place them upside down on a bench.

Melt the sealing compound and pour it around the outer edge to make a fillet in the groove.

Assembling the Element and Separators

Place the plates of a positive group between the plates of a negative group and lay the element
thus formed on its edge, as shown in Fig. 329.

  [Fig. 329 Inserting Separators, Willard farm lighting cell]

  [Fig. 330 and Fig. 331 Fastening cover to posts, Willard farm
   lighting cell]

Next insert a wood separator between each of the positive and negative plates.

Next insert the hard rubber rods through the holes in the lugs of the end negative plates,
and screw on the nuts. Do not screw the nuts so tight as to make the plates bulge out at the
center. The rod should project the same amount on each side of the element.

Place the element in a vertical position.

The cover can now be placed over the posts. Slip a rubber washer and a lead collar over each
post. The two key holes in the lead collar are unequal in size. The collar must be placed over
the post so that the end which measures 3/16 inch from the bottom of the holes to the end of
the collar will be next to the rubber washer. Dip the lead key in water and then put it through
the holes, having the straight edge of the key on the bottom side. This operation can easily
be done by using a pair of tongs (see Figs. 330 and 331) to compress the washer. After the
keys are driven tight they can be cut off with a pair of end cutters and then smoothed with a file.

Sealing Element Assembly in Jar

  [Fig. 332 Sealing Element Assembly, Willard farm lighting cell]

Turn the element upside down and place over a block of wood so that the weight is supported
by the cover. (See Fig. 332.)

Heat the sealing compound by means of a flame (a blow torch will answer the purpose), and place
the jar over the element, as shown in Fig. 331. The jar should be firmly pressed down into
the compound. With a hot putty knife, clean off any compound which has oozed out of the joint.
The assembled cell can now be turned to an upright position.

In case it is necessary to remove a cover, heat a wide putty knife and run it around the edge
between the cover and the glass jar. This will soften the compound so that the cover can be
pried off.

If it is necessary to remove the cover from the posts, the keys must be driven out by pounding
on the small end, as the keys are tapered-and the holes in the lead collars are unequal in size.

Filling with Electrolyte

Fill the cells with 1.260 specific gravity electrolyte at 70° F. to the LIQUID LINE marked
on the glass jars. (About I inch above the top edge of separators.) Allow the cells to stand
12 hours, and if the level of the electrolyte has lowered, add sufficient electrolyte to bring
it to the proper height.

After the cells have stood for 12 hours with electrolyte in the jars, they should be put on
charge at the following rates:

Type    Amperes ----    ------- PH-7      4 PH-9      5 PH-11     6-1/4 PH-13     7-1/2 PH-15
9 PH-17     10

They should be left on charge continuously until the specific gravity of the electrolyte reaches
a maximum and remains constant for six hours. At this point, each cell should be gassing freely
and the voltage should read about 2.45 volts per cell, with the above current flowing.

Under normal conditions it will require approximately 80 hours to complete the initial charge.
The final gravity will be approximately 1.250. If the gravity is above this value, remove a
little electrolyte and add the same amount of distilled water.

If the gravity is too low, remove a little of the electrolyte and add the same amount of 1.400
specific gravity acid and leave on charge as before.

After either water or acid has been added, charge the cells three hours longer in order to
thoroughly mix the solution, and if at the end of that time the gravity is between 1.245 and
1.255, the cells are ready for service.

It is very important that the initial charge be continued until the specific gravity reaches
a maximum value, regardless of the length of time required. The battery must not be discharged
until the initial charge has been completed.

If it is impossible to charge the battery continuously, the charge can be stopped over night,
but must be resumed the next day.

It is preferable to charge the battery at the ampere rate given above, but if this cannot be
done, the temperature must be carefully watched so that it does not exceed 110° F.

Wilard Rubber Jar Batteries Shipped Completely Charged and Filled with Electrolyte

Immediately upon receipt of battery, remove the soft rubber nipples and unscrew the vent plugs.

The soft rubber nipples are to be discarded, as they are used only for protection during shipment.
Inspect each cell to see whether the electrolyte is at the proper height.

Place batteries on rack and connect the positive terminal of one crate to the negative terminal
of the next crate, using the jumpers furnished.

The main battery wires from the switch board should be soldered to the pigtail terminals, which
can then be bolted to the battery terminals. Be sure to have the positive and negative battery
terminals connected respectively to the positive and negative generator terminals of switchboard.

Before using the battery, it should be given a freshening charge at the rate given on page 510.

The specific gravity of the rubber jar batteries is 1.285-1.300 when fully charged, and 1.160
when discharged.

Willard Rubber Jar Batteries Shipped Dry (Export Batteries)

Batteries which have been prepared for export must be given the following treatment:

Upon receipt of battery by customer, the special soft rubber nipples, used on the batteries
for shipping purposes only, should be removed and discarded.

Types SMW and SEW batteries should at once be filled to bottom of vent hole with 1.285 specific
gravity electrolyte at 70° F.

In mixing electrolyte, the acid should be poured into the water and allowed to cool below 90°
F. before being put into the cells. If electrolyte is shipped with the battery, it is of the
proper gravity to put into the cells.

Immediately after the batteries are filled with electrolyte, they must be placed on charge
at one half the normal charging rate given on page 510, and should be left on charge continuously
until the specific gravity of the electrolyte stops rising. At this point, each cell should
be gassing freely and the voltage should read at least 2.40 volts per cell with one-half the
normal charging current flowing.

If during the charge the temperature of the electrolyte in any one cell exceeds 105° F., the
current must be reduced until the temperature is below 90° F. This will necessitate a longer
time to complete the charge, but must be strictly adhered to. If the gravity is above this
value, remove a little electrolyte and add same amount of distilled water while the battery
is left charging (in order to thoroughly mix the solution), and after three hours, if the electrolyte
is within the limits, the cell is ready for service. If the specific gravity is below these
values, remove a little electrolyte and add same amount of 1.400 specific gravity electrolyte.
Leave on charge as before. The acid should be poured into the water and allowed to cool below
90° P. before being used. The batteries are then ready for service.

Installing Counter Electromotive Force Cells

Counter EMF cells, if used with a battery, are installed in the same manner as regular cells.
They are connected positive to negative, the same as regular cells, but the negative terminal
of the CEMF group is to be connected to the negative terminal of the regular cell group. The
positive terminal of the counter CEMF group is then to be connected to the switchboard.

  [Image: Table of charge and discharge rates for different types
   of batteries, Willard farm lighting batteries]

========================================================================

Definitions and Descriptions of Terms and Parts -------------------------------

Acid. As used in this book refers to sulphuric acid (H2SO4), the active component of the electrolyte,
or a mixture of sulphuric acid and water.

Active Material. The active portion of the battery plates; peroxide of lead on the positives
and spongy metallic lead on the negatives.

Alloy. As used in battery practice, a homogeneous combination of lead and antimony.

Alternating Current. Electric current which does not flow in one direction only, like direct
current, but rapidly reverses its direction or "alternates" in polarity so that it will not
charge a battery.

Ampere. The unit of measure of the rate of flow of electric current.

Ampere Hour. The product resulting from multiplication of amperes flowing by time of flow in
hours, e.g., a battery supplying 10 amperes for 8 hours gives 80 ampere hours. See note under
"Volt?" for more complete explanation of current flow.

Battery. Two or more electrical cells, electrically connected so that combination furnishes
current as a unit.

Battery Terminals. Devices attached to the positive post of one end cell and the negative of
the other, by means of which the battery is connected to the car circuit.

Bridge (or Rib). Wedge-shaped vertical projection from bottom of rubber jar on which plates
rest and by which they are supported.

Buckling. Warping or bending of the battery plates.

Burning. A term used to describe the operation of joining two pieces of lead by melting them
at practically the same instant so they may run together as one continuous piece. Usually done
with mixture of oxygen and hydrogen or acetylene gases, hydrogen and compressed air, or oxygen
and illuminating gas.

Burning Strip. A convenient form of lead, in strips, for filling up the joint in making burned
connections.

Cadmium. A metal used in about the shape of a pencil for obtaining voltage of positive or negative
plates. It is dipped in the electrolyte but not allowed to come in contact with plates.

Capacity. The number of ampere hours a battery can supply at a given rate of current flow after
being fully charged, e.g., a battery may be capable of supplying 10 amperes of current for
8 hours before it is exhausted. Its capacity is 80 ampere hours at the 8 hours rate of current
flow. It is necessary to state the rate of flow, since same battery if discharged at 20 amperes
would not last for 4 hours but for a shorter period, say 3 hours. Hence, its capacity at the
3 hour rate would be 3x2O=60 ampere hours.

Case. The containing box which holds the battery cells.

Cell. The battery unit, consisting of an element complete with electrolyte, in its jar with cover.

Charge. Passing direct current through a battery in the direction opposite to that of discharge,
in order to put back the energy used on discharge.

Charge Rate. The proper rate of current to use in charging a battery from an outside source.
It is expressed in amperes and varies for different sized cells.

Corrosion. The attack of metal parts by acid from the electrolyte; it is the result of lack
of cleanliness.

Cover. The rubber cover which closes each individual cell; it is flanged for sealing compound
to insure an effective seal.

Cycle. One charge and discharge.

Density. Specific gravity.

Developing. The first cycle or cycles of a new or rebuilt battery to bring about proper electrochemical
conditions to give rated capacity.

Diffusion. Pertaining to movement of acid within the pores of plates. (See Equalization.)

Discharge. The flow of current from a battery through a circuit, opposite of "charge."

Dry. Term frequently applied to cell containing insufficient electrolyte. Also applied to certain
conditions of shipment of batteries.

Electrolyte. The conducting fluid of electro-chemical devices; for lead-acid storage batteries
it consists of about two parts of water to one of chemically pure sulphuric acid, by weight.

Element. Positive group, negative group and separators.

Equalization. The result of circulation and diffusion within the cell which accompanies charge
and discharge. Difference in capacity at various rates is caused by the time required for this
feature.

Equalizing. Term used to describe the making uniform of varying specific gravities in different
cells of the same battery, by adding or removing water or electrolyte.

Evaporation. Loss of water from electrolyte from heat or charging.

Filling Plug. The plug which fits in and closes the orifice of the filling tube in the cell cover.

Finishing Rate. The current in amperes at which a battery may be charged for twenty-four hours
or more. Also the charging rate used near the end of a charge when cells begin to gas.

Flooding. Overflowing through the filling tube.

Forming. Electro-chemical process of making pasted grid or other plate, types into storage
battery plates. (Often confused with Developing.)

Foreign Material. Objectionable substances.

Freshening Charge. A charge given to a battery which has been standing idle, to keep it fully
charged.

Gassing. The giving off of oxygen gas at positive plates and hydrogen at negatives, which begins
when charge is something more than half completed-depending on the rate.

Generator System. An equipment including a generator for automatically recharging the battery,
in contradistinction to a straight storage system where the battery has to be removed to be
recharged.

Gravity. A contraction of the term "specific gravity," which means the density compared to
water as a standard.

Grid. The metal framework of a plate, supporting the active material and provided with a lug
for conducting the current and for attachment to the strap.

Group. A set of plates, either positive or negative, joined to a strap. Groups do not include
separators.

Hold-Down. Device for keeping separators from floating or working up.

Hold-Down Clips. Brackets for the attachment of bolts for holding the battery securely in position
on the car.

Hydrogen Flame. A very hot and clean flame of hydrogen gas and oxygen, acetylene, or compressed
air used for making burned connections.

Hydrogen Generator. An apparatus for generating hydrogen gas for lead burning.

Hydrometer. An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of the electrolyte.

Hydrometer Syringe. A glass barrel enclosing a hydrometer and provided with a rubber bulb for
drawing up electrolyte.

Jar. The hard rubber container holding the element and electrolyte.

Lead Burning. Making a joint by melting together the metal of the parts to be joined.

Lug. The extension from the top frame of each plate, connecting the plate to the strap.

Maximum Gravity. The highest specific gravity which the electrolyte will reach by continued
charging, indicating that no acid remains in the plates.

Mud. (See Sediment.)

Negative. The terminal of a source of electrical energy as a cell, battery or generator through
which current returns to complete circuit. Generally marked "Neg." or "-".

Ohm. The unit of electrical resistance. The smaller the wire conductor the greater is the resistance.
Six hundred and sixty-five feet of No. 14 wire (size used in house lighting circuit) offers
I ohm resistance to current flow.

Oil of Vitriol. Commercial name for concentrated sulphuric acid (1.835 specific gravity). This
is never used in a battery and would quickly ruin it.

Over-Discharge. The carrying of discharge beyond proper cell voltage; shortens life if carried
far enough and done frequently.

Paste. The mixture of lead oxide or spongy lead and other substances which is put into grids.

Plate. The combination of grid and paste properly "formed." Positive$ are reddish brown and
negatives slate gray.

Polarity. An electrical condition. The positive terminal (or pole) of a cell or battery or
electrical circuit is said to have positive polarity; the negative, negative polarity.

Positive. Generally marked "Pos." or "+".

Post. The portion of the strap extending through the cell cover, by means of which connection
is made to the adjoining cell or to the car circuit.

Potential Difference. Abbreviated P. D. Found on test curves. Synonymous with voltage.

Rate. Number of amperes for charge or discharge. Also used to express time for either.

Rectifier. Apparatus for converting alternating current into direct current.

Resistance. Material (usually lamps or wire) of low conductivity inserted in a circuit to retard
the flow of current. By varying the resistance, the amount of current can be regulated. Also
the property of an electrical circuit whereby the flow of current is impeded. Resistance is
measured in ohms. Analogous to the impediment offered by wall of a pipe to flow of water therein.

Rheostat. An electrical appliance used to raise or lower the resistance of a circuit and correspondingly
to decrease or increase the current flowing.

Rib. (See Bridge.)

Ribbed. (See Separator.)

Reversal. Reversal of polarity of cell or battery, due to excessive discharge, or charging
in the wrong direction.

Rubber Sheets. Thin, perforated hard rubber sheets used in combination with the wood separators
in some types of batteries. They are placed between the grooved side of the wood separators
and the positive plate.

Sealing. Making tight joints between jar and cover; usually with a black, thick, acid-proof
compound.

Sediment. Loosened or worn out particles of active material fallen to the bottom of cells;
frequently called "mud."

Sediment Space. That part of jar between bottom and top of bridge.

Separator. An insulator between plates of opposite polarity; usually of wood, rubber or combination
of both. Separators are generally corrugated or ribbed to insure proper distance between plates
and to avoid too great displacement of electrolyte.

Short Circuit. A metallic connection between the positive and negative plates within a cell.
The plates may be in actual contact or material may lodge and bridge across. If the separators
are in good condition, a short circuit is unlikely to occur.

Spacers. Wood strips used in some types to separate the cells in the case, and divided to provide
a space for the tie bolts.

Specific Gravity. The density of the electrolyte compared to water as a standard. It indicates
the strength and is measured by the hydrometer.

Spray. Fine particles of electrolyte carried up from the surface by gas bubbles. (See Gassing.)

Starting Rate. A specified current in amperes at which a discharged battery may be charged
at the beginning of a charge. The starting rate is reduced to the finishing rate when the cells
begin to gas. It is also reduced at any time during the charge if the temperature of the electrolyte
rises to or above 110 deg. Fahrenheit.

Starvation. The result of giving insufficient charge in relation to the amount of discharge,
resulting in poor service and injury to the battery.

Strap. The leaden casting to which the plates of a group are joined.

Sulphate. Common term for lead sulphate. (PbSO4.)

Sulphated. Term used to describe cells in an under-charged condition, from either over-discharging
without corresponding long charges or from standing idle some time and being self discharged.

Sulphate Reading. A peculiarity of cell voltage when plates are considerably sulphated, where
charging voltage shows abnormally high figures before dropping gradually to normal charging
voltage.

Terminal. Part to which outside wires are connected.

Vent, Vent Plug or Vent-Cap. Hard or soft rubber part inserted in cover to retain atmospheric
pressure within the cell, while preventing loss of electrolyte from spray. It allows gases
formed in the cell to escape, prevents electrolyte from spilling, and keeps dirt out of the cell.

Volt. The commercial unit of pressure in an electric circuit. Voltage is measured by a voltmeter.
Analogous to pressure or head of water flow through pipes. NOTE.--Just as increase of pressure
causes more volume of water to flow through a given pipe so increase of voltage (by putting
more cells in circuit) will cause more amperes of current to flow in same circuit. Decreasing
size of pipes is increasing resistance and decreases flow of water, so also introduction of
resistance in an electrical circuit decreases current flow with a given voltage or pressure.

Wall. Jar sides and ends.

Washing. Removal of sediment from cells after taking out elements; usually accompanied by rinsing
of groups, replacement of wood separators and renewal of electrolyte.

Watt. The commercial unit of electrical power, and is the product of voltage of circuit by
amperes flowing. One ampere flowing under pressure of one volt represents one watt of power.

Watt Hour. The unit of electrical work. It is the product of power expended by time of expenditure,
e.g., 10 amperes flowing under 32 volts pressure for 8 hours gives 2560 watt hours.

========================================================================

Index

A

Acetic acid from improperly treated separators 77 Acetylene and Compressed Air Lead-burning
Outfit147 Acid Carboys 184 Acid. Handling and mixing 222 Acid. How lost while battery is on
car 57 Acid. How to draw, from carboys 184 Acid should never be added to battery on car 57
Acid used instead of water 57 Active materials. Composition of 13 Active materials. Effect
of quantity, porosity, and arrangement of, on capacity 42 Active materials. Resistance of 49
Age codes 242 Age of battery. Determining 242 Age of battery. Effect of, on capacity 47 Alcohol
torch lead-burning outfit 148 Applying pastes to grids 11 Arc lead-burning outfit 148 Audion
bulb for radio receiving sets 253

B

Battery box should be kept clean and dry 51 Battery carrier 173 Battery case (see Case). Battery
steamer 158 Battery truck 173 Battery turntable 170 Bench charge 198 to 210 Bench charge. Arrangement
of batteries for 200 Bench charge. Charging rates for 201 Bench charge. Conditions preventing
batteries from charging 206 Bench charge. Conditions preventing gravity from rising 207 Bench
charge. If battery becomes too hot 205 Bench charge. If battery will not hold a charge 208
Bench charge. If battery will not take half a charge 205 Bench charge. If current cannot be
passed through battery 206 Bench charge. If electrolyte has a milky appearance 206 Bench charge.
If gravity rises above 1.300 205 Bench charge. If gravity rises long before voltage does 205
Bench charge. If new battery will not charge 205 Bench charge. If one cell will not charge
205 Bench charge. If vinegar-like odor is detected 205 Bench charge. Leave vent-plugs in when
charging 209 Bench charge. Level of electrolyte at end of 203 Bench charge. Painting case after
203 Bench charge. Specific gravity at end of 203 Bench charge. Specific gravity will not rise
to 1.280 204 Bench charge. Suggestions for 209 Bench charge. Temperatures of batteries during
202 Bench charge. Time required for 203 Bench charge. Troubles arising during 204 Bench charge.
Voltage at end of 203 Bench charge. When necessary 198 Bins for stock parts 158 Book-keeping
records 302 (Omitted) "Bone-dry" batteries. Putting into service 229 Boxes for battery parts
183 Buckling 72 Buckling. Caused by charging at high rates 73 Buckling. Caused by continued
operation in discharged condition 73 Buckling. Caused by defective grid alloy 73 Buckling.
Caused by non-uniform current distribution 73 Buckling. Caused by overdischarge 73 Buckling
does not necessarily cause trouble 73 Burning. (See Lead-Burning.) Burning-lead mould 164 Burning
rack 162 Business methods 299 to 312 (Omitted)

C

Cadmium. What it is 176 Cadmium leads. Connection of, to voltmeter 179 Cadmium readings affected
by improperly treated separators 181 Cadmium readings. Conditions necessary to obtain good
negative-cadmium readings 210 Cadmium readings do not indicate capacity of a cell 175 Cadmium
readings on short-circuited cells 180 Cadmium readings. Troubles shown by, on charge 206 Cadmium
readings. When they should be taken 176 Cadmium test 174 Cadmium test. How made 175 Cadmium
test on charging battery 181 Cadmium test on discharging battery 180 Cadmium test set. What
it consists of 177 Cadmium test voltmeter 178 Calling for repair batteries 314 Capacity. Effect
of age of battery on 47 and 89 Capacity. Effect of plate surface area on 42 Capacity. Effect
of clogged separators on 88 Capacity. Effect of incorrect proportions of acid and acid in electrolyte
on 88 Capacity. Effect of low level of electrolyte on 88 Capacity. Effect of operating conditions
on 44 Capacity. Effect of quantity and strength of electrolyte on 42 Capacity. Effect of quantity,
arrangement, and porosity of active materials on 42 Capacity. Effect of rate of discharge on
44 Capacity. Effect of reversal of plates on 89 Capacity. Effect of shedding on 88 Capacity.
Effect of specific gravity on 43 Capacity. Effect of temperature on 46 Carbon-arc lead-burning
outfit 148 Carboys 184 Care of battery on the car 51 to 68 Care of battery when not in service
67 Carrier for batteries 173 Case. Cleaning and painting, after repairs 372 Case manufacture
22 Case. Painting, after bench charge 203 Case. Repairing 360 Case. Troubles indicated by rotted
319 Case troubles 83 Cases. Equipment for work on 98 and 170 Casting plate grids 9 Cell connector
mould 168 Cell connectors. Burning-on 213 Cell connectors. Equipment for work on 98 Cell connectors.
How to remove 329 Changing pastes into active materials 12 Charge. (See Bench Charge.) Charge.
Changes at negative plates during 30 and 39 Charge. Changes at positive plates during 30 and
40 Charge. Changes in acid density during 39 Charge. Changes in voltage during 38 Charge. Loss
of, in an idle battery 89 Charge. Preliminary, in rebuilding batteries 349 Charge. Trickle
239 Charging bench133 to 139 Charging bench. Arrangement of batteries on 200 Charging bench.
Temperature of batteries on 202 Charging bench. Working drawings of 134 to 139 Charging circuits.
Drawings of 105 Charging connections. Making temporary 220 Charging. Constant potential 111
Charging equipment for farm lighting batteries 439 Charging equipment for starting batteries
100 Charging farm lighting batteries 455 Charging. Lamp-banks for 101 Charging. Motor-generators
for 106 Charging rate. Adjusting 287 Charging rate. Checking 283 Charging rate. Governed by
gassing 112 and 202 Charging rate. How and when to adjust 289 Charging rates for bench charge
112 and 201 Charging rates for new Exide batteries 226 Charging rates for new Philadelphia
batteries 228 Charging rates for new Prest-O-Lite batteries 234 Charging rates on the car 283
Charging rebuilt batteries 373 Charging. Rheostats for 101 Chemical actions and electricity.
Relations between 31 Chemical changes at the negatives during charge 30 Chemical changes at
the positives during charge 30 Chemical changes at the negatives during discharge 29 Chemical
changes at the positives during discharge 29 Chemical changes in the battery 27 to 31 Composition
of jars 16 Composition of plate grids 9 Compound. Scraping, from covers and jars 334 Compressed
air and hydrogen lead-burning outfit 147 Compressed air and illuminating gas lead-burning outfit
149 Condenser for making distilled water 160 Connections. Making temporary, for charging 220
Connectors. (See Cell Connectors.) Connector troubles 84 Constant-potential charging 111 Construction
of plate grids 10 Convenient method of adding water 56 Corroded grids 77 Corroded grids. Caused
by age 78 Corroded grids. Caused by high temperatures 78 Corroded grids. Caused by impurities
78 Corrosion 321 Covers. Eveready 17 Covers. Exide 19 and 21 Covers. Functions of 16 Covers.
Gould 17 Covers. How to remove 331 Covers. Philadelphia diamond grid 16 Covers. Prest-O-Lite
18 and 19 Covers. Putting on the 365 Covers. Sealing 366 Covers. Single and double 16 Covers.
Steaming 332 Covers. U.S.L. 18 and 20 Covers. Vesta 18 Covers. Westinghouse 417 Covers. Willard
19 Credit. Use and abuse of 301 (Omitted) Cutout. Checking action of 282? Cycling discharge
tests 269

D

Dead cells. Causes of 87 Delco-Light batteries 466 Delco-Light batteries. Ampere-hour meter
for 467 and 471 Delco-Light batteries. Burning-on new plates of 492 Delco-Light batteries.
Burning-on new straps for 488 Delco-Light batteries. Care of cells of, in stock 493 Delco-Light
batteries. Charging, after reassembling 481 Delco-Light batteries. Charging outside negatives
of 484 Delco-Light batteries. Clearing high resistance shorts in 484 Delco-Light batteries.
Clearing lug shorts in 484 Delco-Light batteries. Dis-assembling 474 Delco-Light batteries.
Gauges and instruments for testing 466 Delco-Light batteries. General complaints from users
of 495 Delco-Light batteries. Hydrometers for 468 Delco-Light batteries. Inspection trips 470
Delco-Light batteries. Pressing negatives of 485 Delco-Light batteries. Putting repaired cells
into service 484 Delco-Light batteries. Re-assembling 477 Delco-Light batteries. Removing impurities
from 483 Delco-Light batteries. Repairing broken posts of 487 Delco-Light batteries. Repairing
lead parts of 486 Delco-Light batteries. Salvaging replaced cells of 486 Delco-Light batteries.
Taking, out of commission 494 Delco-Light batteries. Treating broken cells of 482 Delco-Light
batteries. Treating spilled cells of 482 Delco-Light batteries. Treating reversed cells of
483 Delco-Light batteries. Use of auxiliary straps with 492 Delco-Light batteries. When and
how to charge 468 Discharge apparatus 270 Discharge. Changes at negative plates during 37 Discharge.
Changes at positive plates during 37 Discharge. Changes in acid density during 35 Discharge.
Chemical actions at negative plates during 29 Discharge. Chemical actions at positive plates
during 29 Discharge. Effects of rates of, on capacity 44 Discharge. Voltage changes during
32 Discharge tests. Cycling 269 Discharge tests. Fifteen seconds 266 Discharge tests. Lighting
ability 267 Discharge tests. Starting ability 267 Distilled water. Condenser for making 160
Dope electrolytes 59 and 199 Double covers. Sealing 366 Dry shipment of batteries 24 Dry storage
240 Dry storage batteries 265

E

Earthenware jars 184 Electrical system. Normal course of operation of 277 Electrical system.
Testing the 276 Electrical system. Tests on, to be made by the repairman 279 Electrical system.
Troubles in the 284 Electricity and chemical actions. Relation between 31 Electrolyte. Adjusting
the 373 Electrolyte below tops of plates. Causes and results of 319 and 323 Electrolyte. Causes
of milky appearance of 206 Electrolyte. Composition of 199 and 222 Electrolyte. Correct height
of, above plates 55 Electrolyte. Effect of circulation of, on capacity 44 Electrolyte. Effect
of low 67 Electrolyte. Effect of quantity and strength of, on capacity 42 Electrolyte. Freezing
points of 67 Electrolyte. Leaking of, at top of cells 324 Electrolyte. Level of, at end of
bench charge 203 Electrolyte. Resistance of 43 and 48 Electrolyte troubles. High gravity 85
Electrolyte troubles. High level 85 Electrolyte troubles. Low gravity 85 Electrolyte troubles.
Low level 85 Electrolyte troubles. Milky appearance 85 Element. Tightening loose 363 Elements.
Re-assembling 361 Equipment for discharge tests 270 Equipment for general work 98 Equipment
for general work on connectors and terminals 98 Equipment for handling sealing compound 149
Equipment for lead-burning 97 Equipment for work on cases 98 and 170 Equipment needed in opening
batteries 97 Equipment which is absolutely necessary 96 Eveready batteries. Claimed to be non-sulphating
401 Eveready batteries. Description of parts 404 Eveready batteries. Rebuilding 405 Examining
and testing incoming batteries 317 Exide farm lighting batteries 466 to 498 Exide radio batteries
257 Exide starting batteries. Age code for 243 (Age code chart omitted) Exide starting batteries.
Burning-on cell connectors of 382 Exide starting batteries. Capacities of 381 (Chart omitted)
Exide starting batteries. Charging, after repairing 382 Exide starting batteries. Methods of
holding jars of, in case 377 Exide starting batteries. Opening of 377 Exide starting batteries.
Putting cells of, in case 382 Exide starting batteries. Putting jars of, in case 382 Exide
starting batteries. Putting new, into service 225 Exide starting batteries. Re-assembling plates
of 379 Exide starting batteries. Sealing single covers of 380 Exide starting batteries. Type
numbers of 377 Exide starting batteries. Types of 375 Exide starting batteries. Work on plates,
separators, jars, and cases of 379

F

Farm lighting batteries 435 to 510 Farm lighting batteries. Care of, in operation 453 Farm
lighting batteries. Care of plant of, in operation 450 Farm lighting batteries. Charging 453?
or (455) Farm lighting batteries. Charging equipment for 439 Farm lighting batteries. Determining
condition of cells of 453 Farm lighting batteries. Difference between, and starting batteries
435 Farm lighting batteries. Discharge rules for 457 Farm lighting batteries. Exide 466 Farm
lighting batteries. Initial charge of 448 Farm lighting batteries. Installation of plant 445
Farm lighting batteries. Instructing users of 449 Farm lighting batteries. Jars used in 436
Farm lighting batteries. Loads carried by 443 (Charts omitted) Farm lighting batteries. Location
of plant 444 Farm lighting batteries. Overcharge of 455 Farm lighting batteries. Power consumed
by appliances connected to 442 Farm lighting batteries. Prest-O-Lite 460 Farm lighting batteries.
Selection of plant 440 Farm lighting batteries. Separators for 438 Farm lighting batteries.
Size of plant required 442 Farm lighting batteries. Specific gravity of electrolyte of 438
Farm lighting batteries. Troubles with 458 Farm lighting batteries. When to charge 455 Farm
lighting batteries. Wiring of plant for 444 Filling and testing service 291 Flames for lead-burning
211 Floor. Care of 188 Floor grating for shop 188 Floor of shop 186 Forming plates 11 Freezing
points of electrolyte 67

G

Gassing causes shedding 74 Gassing. Charging rate governed by 112 and 202 Gassing. Definition
of 31 Gassing. Excessive, causes milky appearance of electrolyte 86 Gassing of sulphated plates
40 and 75 Gassing on charge 37? and 202 Granulated negatives 78 Granulated negatives. Caused
by age 78 Granulated negatives. Caused by heat 78 Gravity. (See Specific Gravity). Grids. Casting
9 Grids. Composition of 9 Grids. Corroded 77 Grids. Effect of age on 78 and 80 and 342? (344)
Grids. Effect of defective grid alloy on 73 Grids. Effect of impurities on 77 and 78 and 80
and 342 Grids. Effect of overheating on 78 and 80 and 342? Grids. Resistance of 48 Grids. Trimming
10

H

Handling and mixing acid 222 Heating of negatives exposed to the air 78 High rate discharge
testers 181 High rate discharge tests 266 and 267 and 374 Home-made batteries 25 Hydrogen and
compressed air lead-burning outfit 147 Hydrogen and oxygen lead-burning outfit 146 Hydrometer.
What it consists of 60 Hydrometer readings. Effect of temperature on 65 Hydrometer readings.
How to take 61

I

Idle battery. Care of 67 Idle battery. How it becomes discharged 89 Idle battery. How it sulphates
70 Illuminating gas and compressed air lead-burning outfit 149 Impurities 76 Impurities which
attack the plates 77 Impurities which cause self-discharge 76 Incoming batteries. Examining
and testing 317 Incoming batteries. General inspection of 320 Incoming batteries. Operation
tests on 320 Incoming batteries. When it is necessary to open 326 Incoming batteries. When
it is necessary to remove from car 325 Incoming batteries. When it is unnecessary to open 325
Incoming batteries. When it is unnecessary to remove from car 324 Installing battery on the
car 236 Internal resistance 48 to 50 Isolators 408 Inspection to determine height of electrolyte 55

J

Jars. Construction of 16 Jars. Filling with electrolyte 364 Jars for farm lighting batteries
436 Jars. Manufacture of 16 Jars. Materials used for 16 Jars. Removing defective 359 Jars.
Testing, for leaks 356 Jars. Work on 356 Jar troubles caused by explosion in cell 83 Jar troubles
caused by freezing 83 Jar troubles caused by improperly trimmed groups 83 Jar troubles caused
by loose battery 82 Jar troubles caused by rough handling 82 Jar troubles caused by weights
placed on top of battery 83

K

(No Entries)

L

Lead burning cell connectors 213 Lead burning. Classes of 211 Lead burning. Equipment for 97
and 143 Lead burning. General instructions for 210 to 220 Lead burning plates to straps 217
Lead burning terminals 213 Lead burning. Safety precautions for 213 Lead melting pots 220 Lead
mould 164 Lead moulding instructions 220 Light for shop 187 and 190 Loose active material 75
Loose active material caused by buckling 76 Loose active material caused by overdischarge 75
Loss of capacity 88 Loss of charge in an idle battery 89 Lugs. Extending plate 219

M

Manufacture of batteries 9 to 26 Manufacture of batteries. Assembling and sealing 23 Manufacture
of batteries. Auxiliary rubber separators 15 Manufacture of batteries. Cases 22 Manufacture
of batteries. Casting the grid 9 Manufacture of batteries. Composition of the grid 9 Manufacture
of batteries. Covers 16 Manufacture of batteries. Drying the pasted plates 12 Manufacture of
batteries. Forming the plates 12 Manufacture of batteries. Home-made batteries 25 Manufacture
of batteries. Jars 16 Manufacture of batteries. Materials used for separators 14 Manufacture
of batteries. Mixing pastes 11 Manufacture of batteries. Paste formulas 11 Manufacture of batteries.
Pasting plates 11 Manufacture of batteries. Philco slotted retainer 15 Manufacture of batteries.
Post seal 16 Manufacture of batteries. Preparing batteries for dry shipment 24 Manufacture
of batteries. Separators 14 Manufacture of batteries. Terminal connections 25 Manufacture of
batteries. Treating separators 14 Manufacture of batteries. Trimming the grid 10 Manufacture
of batteries. Vent plugs 22 Manufacture of batteries. Vesta impregnated mats 15 Mechanical
rectifier 131 Melting pot for lead 220 Mercury-Arc rectifier 129 Milky electrolyte 206 Motor-generators
106 to 112 Motor-generators. Care of 110 Motor-generators. Operating charging circuits of 109
Motor-generators. Sizes for small and large shops 106 Motor-generators. Suggestions on 108
Moulding instructions 220 Moulding materials 220 Moulds. 164 to 170 Moulds for building up
posts 165 Moulds for burning lead sticks 164 Moulds for cell connectors 168 Moulds for plate
straps 167 and 169 Moulds for terminal screws 168

N

Negative plates. Changes at, during charge 39 Negative plates. Changes at, during discharge
37 Negatives. Bulged 79 Negatives. Granulated 78 Negatives. Heating of, when exposed to the
air 78 Negatives with roughened surface 79 Negatives with softened active material 79 Negatives
with hard active material 79 Negatives. Washing and pressing 351 New batteries. Putting, into
service 224 Non-sulphating Eveready batteries 402

O

Open-circuits 86 Open-circuits. Caused by acid on soldered joints 86 Open-circuits. Caused
by broken terminals 86 Open-circuits. Caused by poor lead burning 86 Opening batteries. Equipment
needed in 97 Opening batteries. Heating sealing compound 332 Opening batteries. Instructions
for 328 Opening batteries. Pulling elements out of jars 333 Opening batteries. Removing connectors
and terminals 329 Opening batteries. Removing post-seal 331 Opening batteries. Scraping compound
from covers 334 Opening batteries. When necessary 326 Opening batteries. When unnecessary 325
Operating conditions. Effect of, on capacity 44 Overdischarge causes sulphation 69 Oxides used
for plate pastes 11 Oxygen and acetylene lead burning outfit 143 Oxygen and hydrogen lead burning
outfit 146 Oxygen and illuminating gas lead burning outfit 146

P

Packing batteries for shipping 271 Painting case after bench charge 203 Paraffine dip pot 182
Paste formulas 11 Pastes. Applying to grids 11 Patent electrolytes 59 Philadelphia radio batteries
260 Philadelphia starting batteries. Age codes for 243 Philadelphia starting batteries. Old
type post seal for 398 Philadelphia starting batteries. Putting new, into service 228 Philadelphia
starting batteries. Rubber cases for 401 Philadelphia starting batteries. Rubber-Lockt seal
399 Philadelphia starting batteries. Separators for 402 Plante plates 27 Plante's work on the
storage battery 27 Plate burning-rack 162 Plate lugs. Extending 219 Plate press 171 Plate strap
mould 167 and 169 Plate surface area. Effect of, on capacity 42 Plate troubles 69 Plates. Burning,
to straps 217 and 355 Plates charged in wrong direction 81 and 343 Plates. Examining, after
opening battery 337 Plates. Sulphated 342 Plates. When old, may be used again 344 Plates. When
to put in new 339 Positives. Buckled 80 and 341 Positives. Changes at, during charge 40 Positives.
Changes at, during discharge 37 Positives. Frozen 80 and 339 Positives. Rotted, and disintegrated
80 and 341 Positives. Washing 354 Positives which have lost considerable active material 80
Positives with hard active material 81 Positives with soft active material. 80 Post builders
165 Post building instructions 218 Post seal 17 Post seal. Exide 19 Post seal. Philadelphia
399 Post seal. Prest-O-Lite 386 Post seal. Titan 434 Post seal. Universal 430 Post seal. U.S.L.
18 Post seal. Vesta 413 Post seal. Westinghouse 417 Post seal. Willard 424 to 428 Posts. Burning,
to plates 217 Pots for melting lead 220 Pressing plates 171 Piest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries
460 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries. Descriptions 460 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries.
Opening cells 464 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries. Putting repaired cell into service
465 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries. Rebuilding 464 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting batteries.
Specific gravity of electrolyte 461 Prest-O-Lite radio batteries 262 Prest-O-Lite starting
batteries. Age code for 244 (Omitted) Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Peening instructions
for 395 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Old style covers for 386 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries.
Peened post seal for 386 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Peening posts of 391 and 394 Prest-O-Lite
starting batteries. Peening press for 390 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Post locking outfit
for 388 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Putting new into service 233 Prest-O-Lite starting
batteries. Rebuilding posts of 393 Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Removing covers from 392
Prest-O-Lite starting batteries. Tables of 396 (Omitted) Primary cell 5 Purchasing methods
299 (Omitted) Putting new batteries into service 224

Q

(No entries)

R

Radio audion bulb 253 Radio batteries 252 Radio batteries. Exide 257 Radio batteries. General
features of 255 Radio batteries. Philadelphia 260 Radio batteries. Prest-O-Lite 262 Radio batteries.
Universal 263 Radio batteries. U. S. L. 261 Radio batteries. Vesta 256 Radio batteries. Westinghouse
259 Radio batteries. Willard 257 Radio receiving sets. Types of 252 Rebuilding batteries 328
(to rest of chapter 15) Rebuilding batteries. Adjusting electrolyte 373 Rebuilding batteries.
Burning-on cell connectors 371 Rebuilding batteries. Burning-on plates 355 Rebuilding batteries.
Charging rebuilt batteries 373 Rebuilding batteries. Cleaning 329 Rebuilding batteries. Cleaning
and painting the case 372 Rebuilding batteries. Determining repairs necessary 335 Rebuilding
batteries. Eliminating short-circuits 348 Rebuilding batteries. Examining the plates 337 Rebuilding
batteries. Filling jars with electrolyte 364 Rebuilding batteries. Heating sealing compound
332 Rebuilding batteries. High rate discharge test 374 Rebuilding batteries. Marking the repaired
battery 372 Rebuilding batteries. Preliminary charge 349 Rebuilding batteries. Pressing negatives
351 Rebuilding batteries. Pulling plates out of jars 333 Rebuilding batteries. Putting elements
in jars 362 Rebuilding batteries. Putting on the covers 365 Rebuilding batteries. Reassembling
the elements 361 Rebuilding batteries. Removing connectors and terminals 329 Rebuilding batteries.
Removing defective jars 359 Rebuilding batteries. Removing post seal 331 Rebuilding batteries.
Repairing the case 360 Rebuilding batteries. Scraping compound from covers and jars 334 Rebuilding
batteries. Sealing double covers 366 Rebuilding batteries. Sealing single covers 371 Rebuilding
batteries. Testing jars 356 Rebuilding batteries. Tightening loose elements 363 Rebuilding
batteries. Using 1.400 acid 364 Rebuilding batteries. Washing negatives 351 Rebuilding batteries.
Washing positives 354 Rebuilding batteries. When old plates may be used again 344 Rebuilding
batteries, When to put in new plates 339 Rebuilding batteries. Work on jars 356 Rectifier.
Mechanical 131 Rectifier. Mercury are 129 Rectifier. Stahl 132 Rectifier. Tungar 113 Reinsulation
274 Relations between chemical actions and electricity 31 Rental batteries. General policy
for 251 Rental batteries. Marking 249 and 296 Rental batteries. Record of 251 Rental batteries.
Stock card for 297 (Omitted very simple chart) Rental batteries. Terminals for 248 Reversed
plates 81 and 89 Reversed-series generator. Adjusting 290

S

S. A. E. ratings for batteries 45 Safety first rules 275 Safety precautions during lead-burning
213 Screw mould .... 168 Sealing around the posts 17 Sealing compound. Composition of 150 Sealing
compound. Equipment for handling 149 Sealing compound. Heating with electricity 333 Sealing
compound. Heating with gasoline torch 333 Sealing compound. Heating with hot water 332 Sealing
compound. Heating with lead burning flame 333 Sealing compound. Heating with steam 332 Sealing
compound. Instructions for heating properly 150 Sealing compound. Removing with hot putty knife
332 Secondary cell 5 Sediment. Effect of excessive 87 Separator cutter 171 Separator troubles
81 and 346 Separators for farm lighting batteries 438 Separators. Improperly treated, cause
unsatisfactory negative-cadmium readings 181 Separators. Putting in new 274 Separators. Storing
273 Separators. Threaded rubber 430 Service records 293 Shedding 74 Shedding caused by charging
only a portion of the plate 75 Shedding caused by charging sulphated plate at too high a rate
74 Shedding caused by excessive charging rate 74 Shedding caused by freezing 75 Shedding caused
by overcharging 74 Shedding. Normal 74 Shedding. Result of 74 Shelving and racks 152 Shipping
batteries 271 Shop equipment 95 Shop equipment for charging 100 Shop equipment for general
work 98 Shop equipment for lead-burning 97 Shop equipment for opening batteries 97 Shop equipment
for work on cases 98 Shop equipment for work on connectors and terminals 98 Shop equipment
which is absolutely necessary 96 Shop floor 186 187? Shop layouts 187? 189 to 196 Shop light
190? 191 Short-circuits. Eliminating 348 Single covers. Scaling 371 Sink. Working drawings
of 144 and 145 Specific gravity at end of bench charge 203 Specific gravity. Changes in, during
charge 39 Specific gravity. Changes in, during discharge 35 Specific gravity. Definition of
60 Specific gravity. Effect of, on capacity 43 Specific gravity in farm lighting cells 438
Specific gravity. Limits of, during charge and discharge 43 Specific gravity rises above 1.300
205 Specific gravity rises long before voltage on charge 205 Specific gravity should be measured
every two weeks 60 Specific gravity. What determines, of fully charged cell 438 Specific gravity.
What different values of, indicate 60 Specific gravity. Why 1.280-1.300 indicates fully charged
cell 43 Specific gravity will not rise to 1.280 204 Specific gravity readings. Effect of temperature
on 65 Specific gravity readings. How to take 61 Specific gravity readings. If above 1.300 318
and 323 Specific gravity readings. If all above 1.200 318 Specific gravity readings. If below
1.150 in all cells 318 and 321? Specific gravity readings. If between 1.150 and 1.200 in all
cells 318 and 321? Specific gravity readings. If unequal 318 and 322 Specific gravity readings.
Troubles indicated by 63 Stahl rectifier 132 Starting ability discharge test 267 Steamer 158
Steps in the use of electricity on the automobile 1 Storage battery does not "store" electricity
6 Storage cell 5 Storing batteries dry 240 Storing batteries wet 239 Strap. Burning plates
to 217 Strap mould 167 and 169 Sulphate. Effect of, on voltage during discharge 32 Sulphation.
Caused by adding acid 72 Sulphation. Caused by battery standing idle 70 Sulphation. Caused
by impurities 72 Sulphation. Caused by low electrolyte 71 Sulphation. Caused by overdischarge
69 Sulphation. Caused by overheating 72 Sulphation. Caused by starvation 71

T

Temperature. Cause of high, on car 324 Temperature corrections in specific gravity readings
65 Temperature. Effect of, on battery operation 66 Temperature. Effect of, on capacity 46 Temperature
of batteries on charging bench 202 Terminal connections 25 Terminals. Burning-on 213 Terminals
for rental batteries 248 Testing and examining incoming batteries 317 Testing and filling service
291 Testing the electrical system 276 Third brush generator. Adjusting 289 Threaded rubber
separators 430 Time required for bench charge 203 Titan batteries 432 Titan batteries. Age
code for 245 (Omitted) Treating separators 14 Trickle charge 239 Trimming plate grids 10 Trouble
charts 321 Troubles arising during bench charge 204 Troubles. Battery 69 Trucks for batteries
173 Tungar rectifier. Battery connections of 127 Tungar rectifier. Four battery 119 Tungar
rectifier. General instructions for 126 Tungar rectifier. Half-wave and full-wave 114 and 115
Tungar rectifier. Installation of 126 Tungar rectifier. Line connections of 127 Tungar rectifier.
One battery 117 Tungar rectifier. Operation of 128 Tungar rectifier. Principle of 113 Tungar
rectifier. Ten battery 120 Tungar rectifier. Troubles with 128 Tungar rectifier. Twenty battery
122 Tungar rectifier. Two ampere 116 Tungar rectifier. Two battery 118 Turntable for batteries 170

U

Universal radio batteries 263 Universal starting batteries 430 Universal starting batteries.
Construction features of 430 Universal starting batteries. Putting new, into service 431 Universal
starting batteries. Types 430 U. S. L. radio batteries. 261 U. S. L. starting batteries. Age
code for 246 U. S. L. starting batteries. Special instructions for 382 U. S. L. starting batteries.
Tables of 384 (Omitted) U. S. L. vent tube construction 20

V

Vent plugs should be left in place during charge 209 Vent tube construction 20 Vesta radio
batteries 256 Vesta starting batteries 408 Vesta starting batteries. Age code for 246246 Vesta
starting batteries. Isolators for 408 Vesta starting batteries. Post seal 413 Vesta starting
batteries. Putting new, into service 227 Vesta starting batteries. Separators 413 and 415 Vesta
starting batteries. Type D 409 Vesta starting batteries. Type DJ 412 Vibrating regulators.
Adjusting 290 Vinegar-like odor. Cause of 205 Voltage. Causes of low 321 Voltage changes during
charge 38 Voltage changes during discharge 32 Voltage, limiting value of, on discharge 34 Voltage
of cell. Factors determining 34 Voltage of a fully charged cell 203 Voltage readings at end
of bench charge 203 Voltage readings on open circuit worthless 177 Voltaic cell 4

W

Wash tank. Working drawings of 144 Water. Condenser for distilled 160 Westinghouse farm lighting
batteries 498 Westinghouse radio batteries 259 Westinghouse starting batteries 417 Westinghouse
starting batteries. Age code for 247247 Westinghouse starting batteries. Plates for 418 Westinghouse
starting batteries. Post seal for 417 Westinghouse starting batteries. Putting new, into service
231 Westinghouse starting batteries. Type A 418 Westinghouse starting batteries. Type B 419
Westinghouse starting batteries. Type H 421 Westinghouse starting batteries. Type J 422 Westinghouse
starting batteries. Type 0 422 Wet batteries. Putting new, into service 225 Wet storage 239
What's wrong with the battery 313 to 327 When it is unnecessary to open battery 325 When may
battery be left on car 324 When must battery be opened 326 When should battery be removed from
car 325 Willard farm-lighting batteries 502 Willard radio batteries 257 Willard starting batteries.
Age code for 247 Willard starting batteries. Bone-dry 24 Willard starting batteries. Putting
new, into service 229 Willard starting batteries with compound sealed post 424 Willard starting
batteries with gasket post seal 428 Willard starting batteries with lead cover-inserts 424
Willard threaded-rubber separators 430 Working drawings of bins for stock 158 Working drawings
of charging bench 134 to 139 Working drawings of flash-back tank 147 Working drawings of shelving
and racks 153 to 157 Working drawings of shop layouts 189 to 196 Working drawings of steamer
bench 161 Working drawings of wash tank 144 and 145 Working drawings of work bench 140 and 141

X Y Z

(No entries under X, Y or Z)

A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W XYZ

Index

(Table of) Contents

========================================================================

A VISIT TO THE FACTORY ----------------------

THE following pages show how Batteries are made at the Factory. The illustrations will be especially
interesting to Battery Service Station Owners who have conceived the idea that they would like
to manufacture their own batteries.

A completed battery is a simple looking piece of apparatus, yet the equipment needed to make
it is elaborate and expensive, as the following illustrations will show. Quantity production
is necessary in order to build a good battery at a moderate cost to the car owner, and quantity
production means a large factory, elaborate and expensive equipment, and a large working force.
Furthermore, before any batteries are put on the market, extensive research and experimentation
is necessary to develop a battery which will prove a success in the field. This in itself requires
considerable time and money. No manufacturer who has developed formulas and designs at a considerable
expense will disclose them to others who desire to enter the manufacturing field as competitors,
nor can anyone expect them to do so.

If the man who contemplates entering the battery manufacturing business can afford to develop
his own formulas and designs, build a factory, and organize a working force, it is, of course,
perfectly. proper for him to become a manufacturer; but unless he can do so, he should not
attempt to make a battery.

The following illustrations, will of course, be of interest to the man who repairs batteries.
A knowledge of the manufacturing processes will give him a better understanding of the batteries
which he repairs. The less mystery there is about the battery, the more efficiently can the
repairman do his work.

[Photo: Casting Exide Grids]
[Photo: Pasting Exide Plates]
[Photo: Casting Small Exide Battery Parts]
[Photo: Forming Exide Positive Plates]
[Photo: Burning Exide Plates Into Groups]
[Photo: Cutting and grooving Exide wood separators]
[Photo: Charging Exide batteries]
[Photo: Mixing paste for Prest-O-Lite batteries]
[Photo: Moulding Prest-O-Lite Grids]
[Photo: Inspecting Prest-O-Lite grids for defects]
[Photo: Prest-O-Lite pasting room]
[Photo: Pasting Prest-O-Lite plates]
[Photo: A corner of Prest-O-Lite forming room]
[Photo: General view of Prest-O-Lite assembly room]
[Photo: Power operated Prest-O-Lite peening press]
[Photo: Inspecting Prest-O-Lite separators]
[Photo: Inserting separators in Prest-O-Lite plate elements]
[Photo: Final inspection of Prest-O-Lite batteries]
[Photo: Prest-O-Lite experimental laboratory]
[Photo: Laboratory tests of oxides for Vesta batteries]
[Photo: Moulding Vesta grids]
[Photo: Preparing Vesta plates for the forming room]
[Photo: Burning Vesta plates into groups.  Assembling groups with
        isolators.]
[Photo: Vesta acid mixing room]
[Photo: Checking and adjusting cell readings of Vesta batteries on
        development charge]
[Photo: Final assembly inspection of Vesta batteries]
[Photo: Trimming Westinghouse grids]
[Photo: Pasting Westinghouse plates]
[Photo: Burning Westinghouse plates into groups]
[Photo: Packing Westinghouse batteries for shipment]