In the meantime the two friends conferred over the return journey to Mombasa. They had, as
it was, penetrated farther and explored more territory than they were commissioned to; they
decided, therefore, to return without delay. The captain indeed was lured very much by that
lake unknown to geography, but a regard for the health of the children and a desire to return
them as quickly as possible to their afflicted fathers prevailed. The doctor insisted, however,
that it would be necessary to rest on the cool heights of Kenia Mountain or Mount Kilima-Njaro.
From there they also decided to send news to the parents and summon them to come to Mombasa.

The return journey began, after due rest and baths in the warm springs, on the third day. It
was at the same time a day of parting from Kali. Stas persuaded the little one that to take
him farther with them--to the ocean or to Egypt--would be selfishness on their part. He said
to her that in Egypt, and even in England, Kali would be nothing more than a servant, while
when he assumed the government of his nation, he, as king, could spread and establish Christianity,
soften the savage customs of the Wahimas, and make of them not only a civilized but a good
people. The same thing he repeated in substance to Kali.

At the leave-taking, however, a multitude of tears were shed of which even Stas was not ashamed,
for he and Nell had passed with Kali through many evil and good moments and not only had learned
to appreciate his honest heart, but had conceived a sincere affection for him. The young negro
lay long at the feet of his "Bwana kubwa" and the "Good Mzimu." Twice he returned to look at
them for a while, but finally the moment of separation came and the two caravans started in
opposite directions.

It was only during the journey that the narrative of the adventures of the two little travelers
began. Stas, at one time prone to be a trifle boastful, now did not brag at all. He simply
had performed too many great deeds, he had undergone too much, and was too developed not to
understand that words should not be greater than acts. There was, after all, enough of deeds,
though related in the most modest manner. Each day during the scorching "white hours" and at
evening during the stops there glided before the eyes of Captain Glenn and Doctor Clary pictures,
as it were, of those occurrences and incidents through which the children had passed. So they
saw the kidnapping from Medinet-el-Fayûm and the awful journey on camel-back across the desert--and
Khartûm and Omdurmân, resembling hell on earth, and the ill-boding Mahdi. When Stas related
his reply to the Mahdi, when the latter tried to induce him to change his faith, both friends
rose and each of them warmly shook Stas' right hand, after which the captain said:

"The Mahdi is not living!"

"The Mahdi is not living?" Stas repeated with astonishment.

"Yes," spoke out the doctor. "He choked himself with his own fat, or, in other words, he died
of heart trouble, and the succession of his government has been assumed by Abdullahi."

A long silence ensued.

"Ha!" said Stas. "He did not expect when he despatched us for our destruction to Fashoda that
death would first overtake him."

And later he added:

"But Abdullahi is still more cruel than the Mahdi."

"For that reason mutinies and massacres have already begun," the captain replied, "and the
whole edifice which the Mahdi reared will sooner or later tumble down."

"And after that who will succeed?"

"England," the captain answered.* [*The reign of Abdullahi continued for ten years. The decisive
blow to the dervish power was delivered by Lord Kitchener, who almost totally annihilated them
in a great bloody battle and afterwards ordered the Mahdi's tomb to be razed.]

