In the tale entitled "Djoaidi and Fadehat el Djemal" [591] appears that hoary poet, philosopher
and reprobate, Abu Nowas [592] of The Arabian Nights. Like the Nights, The Scented Garden has
a cycle of tales illustrative of the cunning and malice of women. But all the women in those
days and countries were not bad, just as all were not plain. Plumpness seems to have been the
principal attraction of sex, and the Kama Shastra version goes so far as to assure us that
a woman who had a double chin, [593] was irresistible. If so, there were probably no words
in the language good enough to describe a woman with three chins. According, however, to the
author of the recent Paris translation [594] this particular rendering is a mistake. He considers
that the idea Nafzawi wished to convey was the tower-like form of the neck, [595] but in any
circumstances the denizens of The Scented Garden placed plumpness in the forefront of the virtues;
which proves, of course, the negroid origin of at any rate some of the stories, [596] for a
true Arab values slenderness. Over and over again in the Nights we are told of some seductive
lady that she was straight and tall with a shape like the letter Alif or a willow wand. The
perfect woman, according to Mafzawi, perfumes herself with scents, uses ithmid [597] (antimony)
for her toilet, and cleans her teeth with bark of the walnut tree. There are chapters on sterility,
long lists of the kind to be found in Rabelais, and solemn warnings against excess, chiefly
on account of its resulting in weakness of sight, with other "observations useful for men and
women."

While chapters i. to xx. concern almost entirely the relations between the opposite sexes,
Chapter xxi. [598] which constitutes more than one-half of the book, treats largely of those
unspeakable vices which as St. Paul and St. Jude show, and the pages of Petronius and other
ancient authors prove, were so common in the pagan world, and which, as Burton and other travellers
inform us, are still practised in the East.

"The style and language in which the Perfumed Garden is written are," says the writer of the
Foreword to the Paris edition of 1904, "of the simplest and most unpretentious kind, rising
occasionally to a very high degree of eloquence, resembling, to some extent, that of the famous
Thousand Nights and a Night; but, while the latter abounds in Egyptian colloquialisms, the
former frequently causes the translator to pause owing to the recurrence of North African idioms
and the occasional use of Berber or Kabyle words, not generally known." In short, the literary
merits or the work are trifling.

Although Nafzawi wrote his extended Scented Garden for scholars only, he seems afterwards to
have become alarmed, and to have gone in fear lest it might get into the hands of the ignorant
and do harm. So he ended it with:

   "O you who read this, and think of the author
    And do not exempt him from blame,
    If you spare your good opinion of him, do not
    At least fail to say 'Lord forgive us and him.'" [599]

161. Sir Richard Burton's Translation.

It was in the autumn of 1888, as we have seen, that Sir Richard Burton, who considered the
book to take, from a linguistic and ethnological point of view, a very high rank, conceived
the idea of making a new translation, to be furnished with annotations of a most elaborate
nature. He called it at first, with his fondness for rhyming jingle, The Scented Garden-Site
for Heart's Delight, and finally decided upon The Scented Garden--Man's Heart to Gladden. Sir
Richard's Translation was from the Algiers manuscript, a copy of which was made for him at
a cost of eighty pounds, by M. O. Houdas, Professor at the Ecole des Langues Orientales Vivantes.
This was of the first twenty chapters. Whether a copy of the 21st Chapter ever reached Sir
Richard we have not been able to ascertain. On 31st March 1890, he wrote in his Journal: "Began,
or rather resumed, Scented Garden," [600] and thenceforward he worked at it sedulously. Now
and again the Berber or Kabyle words with which the manuscript was sprinkled gave him trouble,
and from time to time he submitted his difficulties to M. Fagnan, "the erudite compiler of
the Catalogue of Arabic books and MSS. in the Bibliotheque Nationale d'Alger" and other Algerian
correspondents. Lady Burton describes her husband's work as "a translation from Arabic manuscripts
very difficult to get in the original" with "copious notes and explanations" of Burton's own--the
result, indeed, of a lifetime of research. "The first two chapters were a raw translation of
the works of Numa Numantius [601] without any annotations at all, or comments of any kind on
Richard's part, and twenty chapters, translations of Shaykh el Nafzawi from Arabic. In fact,
it was all translation, except the annotations on the Arabic work." [602] Thus Burton really
translated only Chapters i. to xx., or one-half of the work. But it is evident from his remarks
on the last day of his life that he considered the work finished with the exception of the
pumice-polishing; and from this, one judges that he was never able to obtain a copy of the
21st Chapter. Lady Burton's statement and this assumption are corroborated by a conversation
which the writer had with Mr. John Payne in the autumn of 1904. "Burton," said Mr. Payne, "told
me again and again that in his eyes the unpardonable defect of the Arabic text of The Scented
Garden was that it altogether omitted the subject upon which he had for some years bestowed
special study." If Burton had been acquainted with the Arabic text of the 21st Chapter he,
of course, would not have made that complaint; still, as his letters show, he was aware that
such a manuscript existed. Having complained to Mr. Payne in the way referred to respecting
the contents of The Scented Garden, Burton continued, "Consequently, I have applied myself
to remedy this defect by collecting all manner of tales and of learned material of Arab origin
bearing on my special study, and I have been so successful that I have thus trebled the original
manuscript." Thus, as in the case of The Arabian Nights, the annotations were to have no particular
connection with the text. Quite two-thirds of these notes consisted of matter of this sort.

Mr. Payne protested again and again against the whole scheme, and on the score that Burton
had given the world quite enough of this kind of information in the Nights. But the latter
could not see with his friend. He insisted on the enormous anthropological and historical importance
of these notes--and that the world would be the loser were he to withold them; in fact, his
whole mind was absorbed in the subject.

Bibliography:

78. Catullus translated 1890, printed 1894. 79. The Golden Ass and other works left unfinished.

162. Switzerland 15th October 1888.

From London the Burtons proceeded first to Boulogne where Sir Richard visited the haunts of
his early manhood and called upon his old fencing master, Constantin, who was hale and well,
though over eighty; and then to Geneva, where he delivered before the local Geographical Society
what proved to be his last public lecture. From Geneva he wrote several letters to Mr. Payne.
In that of November 21st, his mind running on the Bandello, he says, "You would greatly oblige
me by jotting down when you have a moment to spare the names of reverends and ecclesiastics
who have written and printed facetious books. [603] In English I have Swift and Sterne; in
French Rabelais, but I want one more, also two in Italian and two in German."

In reply, Mr. Payne sent him some twenty or thirty names in half a dozen literatures. From
Geneva the Burtons made their way first to Vevey, where Sir Richard revelled in its associations
with Ludlow, the English regicide, and Rousseau; and then to Lausanne for the sake of his great
hero, Edward Gibbon; and on 12th March (1889) they were back again at Trieste.

Writing to Mr. A. G. Ellis on May 8th, Burton enquires respecting some engravings in the Museum
brought over from Italy by the Duke of Cumberland, and he finished humorously with, "What news
of Mr. Blumhardt? And your fellow-sufferer from leather emanations, the Sanskiritist?" [604]--an
allusion to the Oriental Room, under which, in those days, was the book-binding department.

163. Mr. Letchford, August and September 1889.

In July, for Burton found it impossible to content himself long in any place, the Burtons made
another journey, this time through Western Austria, being accompanied as usual by Dr. Baker
and Lisa. After their return, on September 13th, it was necessary for Burton to undergo two
operations; and Lady Burton, racked with anxiety and fearing the worst, seemed, when all was
successfully over, to have recovered from a horrible nightmare. Then followed acquaintance
with the gifted young artist, Mr. Albert Letchford, and his beautiful and winning sister, Daisy.
Mr. Letchford became the Burtons' Court Painter, as it were--frequently working in their house--and
both he and his sister admired--nay, worshipped Sir Richard down to the ground. Even as a child,
Albert Letchford was remarkable for his thoughtful look, and his strong sense of beauty. In
church one day he begged his mother to let him run home and get his little sword, as there
was such an ugly woman there and he wished to cut her head off. As a youth he drew and studied
from morning to night, living in a world of his own creation--a world of books and pictures.
His letters were those of a poet and an artist. Beauty of the mind, however, attracted him
even more than beauty of the body. Thus, he fell in love with his cousin Augusta, "though she
had the toothache, and her head tied up in a handkerchief." At seventeen he studied art in
Venice. From Venice he went to Florence, where he met the Burtons and got from them introductions
to all the best people, including the Countess Orford and Mlle. de la Ramee (Ouida). We then
find him in Paris, in London, in Egypt, where he acquired that knowledge of the East which
helped him later when he illustrated The Arabian Nights. Finally he settled at Trieste. "That
wonderful man, Sir Richard Burton, with the eyes of a tiger and the voice of an angel," writes
Miss Letchford, "loved my brother, for he found something more in him than in others--he found
a mind that could understand his own, and he often said that Mr. Albert Letchford was about
the only man that he was pleased to see--the only one who never jarred on his nerves. To him
did Sir Richard, proud and arrogant to most people, open his soul, and from his lips would
come forth such enchanting conversation--such a wonderful flow of words and so marvellous in
sound that often I have closed my eyes and listened to him, fancying, thus--that some wonderful
learned angel had descended from Heaven unto Earth."

Among the friends of the Burtons was the Princess of Thurn and Taxis, who with her husband
became one of Letchford's best patrons. The princess won Sir Richard's heart by her intelligence,
her beauty and grace; and "his conversation was never so brilliant, and his witticisms were
never so sparkling as in her presence." One day another princess--a foolish, vain woman--after
making a number of insipid remarks, shook hands with Sir Richard, lifting high her arm and
elbow in the fashion which was then just coming into vogue, but which has now lost acceptance.
[605] Sir Richard, while giving her his right hand, quietly with his left put down her arm
and elbow. The princess turned scarlet, but she never after practised "the high shake." Miss
Letchford sums up Lady Burton as "a most beautiful and charming woman, with many lovely ideas,
but many foolish ones." Unfortunately she was guided entirely by her confessor, a man of small
mental calibre. One of the confessor's ideas was to convert Sir Richard by dropping small charms
into his pockets. Sir Richard got quite used to finding these little images about him; but
they invariably made their way out of the window into the garden. One of Lady Burton's little
failings was the fear lest anybody should come to the house in order to steal, and the servants
had special commands to admit none who did not look "a perfect gentleman or lady," with the
result that one day they slammed the door in the face of the Archduke Louis Salvator, simply
because he did not happen to have a card with him. After that Lady Burton's orders were less
strict.

Mr. Letchford's paintings include views of the neighbourhood, a portrait of Burton which was
exhibited in the Stanley Gallery, and a full-length portrait of Burton fencing, [606] but he
is best known by his series of illustrations to The Arabian Nights.

164. To Dr. Tuckey.

On April 24th we find Burton writing to thank Dr. Charles Tuckey for the gift of a copy of
his Psycho-Therapeutics. "An old pupil of Dr. Elliotson," [607] he says, "I am always interested
in these researches, and welcome the appearance of any addition to our scanty knowledge of
an illimitable field. Suggestion (what a miserable name!) perfectly explains the stigmata of
St. Francis and others without preter-natural assistance, and the curative effect of a dose
of Koran (a verset written upon a scrap of paper, and given like a pill of p.q.). I would note
that the "Indian Prince" [608] was no less a personage than Ranjit Singh, Rajah of the Punjab,
that the burial of the Fakir was attested by his German surgeon-general, and that a friend
and I followed Colonel Boileau's example in personally investigating the subject of vivi-sepulture.
In p. 10: The throngs of pilgrims to Mecca never think of curing anything but their 'souls,'
and the pilgrimage is often fatal to their bodies. I cannot but take exception to such terms
as 'psychology,' holding the soul (an old Egyptian creation unknown to the early Hebrews) to
be the ego of man, what differentiates him from all other men, in fact, like the 'mind,' not
a thing but a state or condition of things. I rejoice to see Braid [609] duly honoured and
think that perhaps a word might be said of 'Electro-biology,' a term ridiculous as 'suggestion'
and more so. But Professor Yankee Stone certainly produced all the phenomena you allude to
by concentrating the patient's sight upon his 'Electro-magnetic disc'--a humbug of copper and
zinc, united, too. It was a sore trial to Dr. Elliotson, who having been persecuted for many
years wished to make trial in his turn of a little persecuting--a disposition not unusual." [610]

165. To Mr. Kirby 15th May 1889.

In a letter to Mr. W. F. Kirby, 15th May 1889, Burton, after referring to a translation of
the Kalevala, [611] upon which Mr. Kirby was then engaged, says: "We shall not be in England
this year. I cannot remove myself so far from my books, and beside, I want a summer in Austria,
probably at Closen or some place north of Vienna. We had a long ten months' holiday and must
make up for time lost. The Scented Garden is very hard work, and I have to pay big sums to
copyists and so forth. Yet it will, I think, repay the reader. What a national disgrace is
this revival of Puritanism with its rampant cant and ignoble hypocrisy! I would most willingly
fight about it, but I don't see my way." Writing again on 6th November (1889) he says, "I like
very much your idea of visiting Sweden in the interests of the Kalevala. Perhaps you might
date the Preface from that part of the world. The Natural History of The Nights would be highly
interesting. Have you heard that Pickering and Chatto, of Haymarket, London, are going to print
100 (photogravure) illustrations of the Nights? When last in London I called on them. On Friday
week, 15th November, we start upon our winter's trip. From here to Brindisi, await the P. and
O., then to Malta (ten days), Tunis (month), Tripoli and Algiers, where I hope at last to see
the very last of The Scented Garden."

166. Tunis and Algiers, November 1889 to March 1890.

At the time stated, Burton, Lady Burton, Dr. Baker and Lisa took steamer for Brindisi, where
they visited Virgil's house, and then made for Malta. On December 20th they were at Tunis,
and Sir Richard ransacked the bazaar and button-holed people generally in order to get manuscripts
of The Scented Garden, but without success. Nobody had ever heard of it. [612] At Carthage
he recalled that rosy morning when Dido in "flowered cymar with golden fringe" rode out with
Aeneas to the hung, read Salammbo, and explored the ruins; but Lady Burton had no eyes for
anything but convents, monks and nuns, though she certainly once took Lisa to a harem, where
they learnt how to make Tunisian dishes. The biblical appearance of everything reminded Burton
of his Damascus days. Seeing a man in a burnous ploughing with oxen and a wooden plough on
a plain where there was no background, he said, "Look, there's Abraham!" At Constantine, Sir
Richard and Lady Burton celebrated their 29th, and as it proved, their last wedding day. With
Algiers, the next stopping place, which boasted a cardinal's Moorish palace and a Museum, Burton
was in ecstasies, and said he wanted to live there always; but in less than three weeks he
was anxious to get as far away from it as possible.

From Algiers he wrote to Mr. Payne (28th January 1890). After recording his failure to obtain
manuscripts of The Scented Garden at Tunis he says: "To-day I am to see M. Macarthy, of the
Algiers Bibliotheque Musee; but I am by no means sanguine. This place is a Paris after Tunis
and Constantine, but like all France (and Frenchmen) in modern days dirty as ditchwater. The
old Gaulois is dead and damned, politics and money getting have made the gay nation stupid
as Paddies. In fact the world is growing vile and bete, et vivent les Chinois! [613] A new
Magyar irruption would do Europe much good."

In a letter to Mr. A. G. Ellis, dated 12th February, 1890, he refers to the anecdote of the
famous Taymor al Wahsh, who, according to a Damascus tradition, played polo with the heads
of his conquered enemies. "Every guide book," he continues, "mentions my Lord Iron's nickname
'The Wild Beast,' and possibly the legend was invented by way of comment. He drove away all
the Persian swordsmiths, and from his day no 'Damascus blade' has been made at Damascus. I
have found these French colonies perfectly casual and futile. The men take months before making
up their minds to do anything. A most profligate waste of time! My prime object in visiting
Tunis was to obtain information concerning The Scented Garden, to consult MSS. &c. After a
month's hard work I came upon only a single copy, the merest compendium, lacking also Chapter
21, my chief Righah (the absurd French R'irha) for a week or ten days [for the sake of the
baths] then return to Algiers, steam for Marseilles and return to Trieste via the Riviera and
Northern Italy--a route of which I am dead sick. Let us hope that the untanned leather bindings
have spared you their malaria. You will not see me in England next summer, but after March
1891, I shall be free as air to come and go." At Hammam R'irha, Burton began in earnest his
translation of Catullus, and for weeks he was immersed in it night and day. The whole of the
journey was a pleasurable one, or would have been, but for the cruelty with which animals were
treated; and Burton, who detested cruelty in all forms, and had an intense horror of inflicting
pain, vented his indignation over and over again against the merciless camel and donkey drivers.

As the party were steaming from Algiers to Toulon, a curious incident occurred. Burton and
Dr. Baker having sauntered into the smoke room seated themselves at a table opposite to an
old man and a young man who looked like, and turned out to be, an Oxford don. Presently the
don, addressing the old man, told him with dramatic gesticulations the venerable story about
Burton killing two Arabs near Mecca, and he held out his hand as if he were firing a pistol.

Burton, who had long known that the tale was in circulation but had never before heard anyone
relate it as fact, here interrupted with, "Excuse me, but what was the name of that traveller?"

"Captain Burton," replied the don, "now Sir Richard Burton."

"I am Burton," followed Sir Richard, "and I remember distinctly every incident of that journey,
but I can assure you I do not remember shooting anybody."

At that, the don jumped up, thanked him for giving the story denial, and expressed his happiness
at being able to make the great traveller's acquaintance. [614]

On March 26th (1890) a week after his return to Trieste, Burton wrote to Mr. A. G. Ellis: "It
is very kind and friendly of you to write about The Scented Garden MSS. I really rejoice to
hear that you and Mr. Bendall have escaped alive from those ground floor abominations stinking
of half rotten leather. I know the two Paris MSS. [of The Scented Garden] (one with its blundering
name): they are the merest abridgments, both compressing Chapter 21 of 500 pages (Arabic) into
a few lines. I must now write to Gotha and Copenhagen in order to find out if the copies there
be in full. Can you tell me what number of pages they contain? Salam to Mr. Bendall, and best
wishes to you both. You will see me in England some time after March 19th 1891."

At no work that he had ever written did Sir Richard labour so sedulously as at The Scented
Garden. Although in feeble health and sadly emaciated, he rose daily at half-past five, and
slaved at it almost incessantly till dusk, begrudging himself the hour or two required for
meals and exercise. The only luxury he allowed himself while upon his laborious task was "a
sip of whiskey," but so engrossed was he with his work that he forgot even that. It was no
uncommon remark for Dr. Baker to make: "Sir Richard, you haven't drunk your whiskey." One day,
as he and Dr. Baker were walking in the garden he stopped suddenly and said: "I have put my
whole life and all my life blood into that Scented Garden, and it is my great hope that I shall
live by it. It is the crown of my life."

"Has it ever occurred to you, Sir Richard," enquired Dr. Baker, "that in the event of your
death the manuscript might be burnt? Indeed, I think it not improbable."

The old man turned to the speaker his worn face and sunken eyes and said with excitement, "Do
you think so? Then I will at once write to Arbuthnot and tell him that in the event of my death
the manuscript is to be his."

He wrote the letter the same day. Arbuthnot duly received it, and several letters seem to have
passed between them on the subject; but we do not know whether Lady Burton was aware of the
arrangement. All we can say is that Arbuthnot believed she knew all about it.

