WINNING A CAUSE

by

JOHN GILBERT THOMPSON

     *     *     *     *     *     *

     In Flanders Now

     (An Answer to Lt.-Col. McCrae)

     We have kept faith, ye Flanders' dead,
     Sleep well beneath those poppies red,
       That mark your place.
     The torch your dying hands did throw
     We 've held it high before the foe,
     And answered bitter blow for blow,
       In Flanders' fields.

     And where your heroes' blood was spilled
     The guns are now forever stilled
       And silent grown.
     There is no moaning of the slain,
     There is no cry of tortured pain,
     And blood will never flow again
       In Flanders' fields.

     Forever holy in our sight
     Shall be those crosses gleaming white,
       That guard your sleep.
     Rest you in peace, the task is done,
     The fight you left us we have won,
     And "Peace on Earth" has just begun
       In Flanders now.

     EDNA JACQUES
     in the Calgary Herald

     *     *     *     *     *     *

[Frontispiece: Edwin Rowland Blashfield's poster, "Carry On," used in the Fourth Liberty Loan.

This striking lithograph in the movement of its design expresses the compelling force of the
American spirit as it entered the World War.

The original oil painting has been purchased by The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City.]

WINNING A CAUSE

World War Stories

by

JOHN GILBERT THOMPSON Principal of the State Normal School, Fitchburg, Mass.

and

INEZ BIGWOOD Instructor in Children's Literature, State Normal School, Fitchburg, Mass.

Authors of
  Lest We Forget

Silver, Burdett and Company Boston ---- New York ---- Chicago Copyright, 1919, by Silver, Burdett
and Company.

PREFACE

Lest We Forget, the first volume of World War stories, gave an outline of the struggle up to
the time of the signing of the armistice, November 11, 1918, and contained in general chronological
order most of the stories that to children from ten to sixteen years of age would be of greatest
interest, and give the clearest understanding of the titanic contest.

This; the second volume of the same series, contains the stories of the war of the character
described, that were not included in Lest We Forget,--stories of the United States naval heroes,
of the Americans landed in France, of the concluding events of the war, of the visit of President
Wilson to Europe, and of the Peace Conference.  In a word, emphasis is placed upon America's
part in the struggle.

This volume should be of even greater interest to American children than the first, for it
tells the story of America's greatest achievement, of a nation undertaking a tremendous and
terrible task not for material gain, but for an ideal.

No more inspiring story has ever been told to the children of men than the story of America's
part in winning the greatest cause for which men have ever contended.  President Wilson said
in Europe, "The American soldiers came not merely to win a war, but to win a cause."  Every
child in every home and in every school should be made familiar with how it was won, and with
the separate stories which go to make up the glorious epic.

The two volumes of the series give for children, in a way that they will comprehend and enjoy,
through stories so selected and so connected as to build up an understanding of the whole,
the causes, the conduct, and the results of the World War.

The thanks of the authors and publishers are hereby expressed to Mr. Edwin Rowland Blashfield
for the permission to reproduce his poster, "Carry On"; to Mrs. Ella Wheeler Wilcox for "Song
of the Aviator"; to George H. Doran Company, Publishers, for "Pershing at the Tomb of Lafayette"
from "The Silver Trumpet," by Amelia Josephine Burr, copyright 1918; for "Where Are You Going,
Great-Heart?" from "The Vision Splendid" by John Oxenham, copyright 1918; for "Trees" from
"Trees and Other Poems" by Joyce Kilmer, copyright 1914; to Collier's for Lieutenant McKeogh's
story of "The Lost Battalion"; to Mr. Roger William Riis for his article "The Secret Service";
and to Mr. John Mackenzie, Chief Boatswain's Mate, U. S. S. Remlik, for the facts in the story,
"Fighting a Depth Bomb."

CONTENTS

  1. WHY THE UNITED STATES ENTERED THE WAR
  2. AMERICA COMES IN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Klaxton
  3. PERSHING AT THE TOMB OF LAFAYETTE . . . .  Amelia Josephine Burr
  4. AMERICA ENTERS THE WAR  . . . . . . . . . . . David Lloyd George
  5. THE FIRST TO FALL IN BATTLE
  6. FOUR SOLDIERS
  7. WHERE THE FOUR WINDS MEET . . . . . . .  Geoffrey Dalrymple Nash
  8. THE SOLDIERS WHO GO TO SEA
  9. WHEN THE TIDE TURNED  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Otto H. Kahn
 10. A BOY OF PERUGIA
 11. REDEEMED ITALY
 12. SONG OF THE AVIATOR . . . . . . . . . . . .  Ella Wheeler Wilcox
 13. NATIONS BORN AND REBORN
 14. "TO VILLINGEN--AND BACK"
 15. ALSACE-LORRAINE
 16. THE CALL TO ARMS IN OUR STREET  . . . . . . . . . .  W. M. Letts
 17. THE KAISER'S CROWN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles Mackay
 18. THE QUALITY OF MERCY
 19. THE REALLY INVINCIBLE ARMADA
 20. "I KNEW YOU WOULD COME" . . . . . .  Rev. Ernest M. Stires, D.D.
 21. THE SEARCHLIGHTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alfred Noyes
 22. FIGHTING A DEPTH BOMB
 23. THE SECOND LINE OF DEFENSE
 24. U. S. DESTROYER OSMOND C. INGRAM
 25. JOYCE KILMER
 26. BLOCKING THE CHANNEL
 27. THE FLEET THAT LOST ITS SOUL
 28. THE LITTLE OLD ROAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gertrude Vaughan
 29. HARRY LAUDER SINGS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dr. George Adams
 30. THE THIRTEENTH REGIMENT
 31. WHERE ARE YOU GOING, GREAT-HEART? . . . . . . . . . John Oxenham
 32. THIS CAPTURE OF DUN
 33. BOMBING METZ  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Raoul Lufbery
 34. THE UNSPEAKABLE TURK
 35. THE SECRET SERVICE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roger William Riis
 36. AT THE FRONT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  G. B. Manwaring
 37. A CAROL FROM FLANDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Frederick Niven
 38. THE MINER AND THE TIGER
 39. THE LOST BATTALION
 40. UNITED STATES DAY
 41. NOVEMBER 11, 1918
 42. IN MEMORIAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Alfred Tennyson
 43. THE UNITED STATES AT WAR--IN FRANCE . . General John J. Pershing
 44. THE UNITED STATES AT WAR--AT HOME
 45. A CONGRESSIONAL MESSAGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . Woodrow Wilson
 46. PRESIDENT WILSON IN FRANCE
 47. Frontispiece

The standard bearers and color guard leading a column of the Fifth Artillery of the First American
Division through Hetzerath, Germany, on their way to the Rhine.

"Lafayette, We Are Here!"  The immortal tribute of General John J. Pershing at the grave of
the great Frenchman.

The religious and military tribute paid to the first Americans to fall in battle, at Bathelmont,
November 4, 1917.

Saint George and the Dragon, painted by V. Carpaccio in 1516, Venice; S. Giorgio Maggiore.

Jeanne d'Arc, rising in her stirrups, holds on high her sword, as if to consecrate it for a
war of Right.

Memorial Day, 1918, was celebrated abroad as well as at home.

This memorial to the memory of Edith Cavell was unveiled by Queen Alexandra in Norwich, England,
at the opening of the Nurse Cavell Memorial Home.

Somewhere in France these Salvation Army "lassies" are baking pies and "doughnuts for the doughboys."

The U.S. Destroyer Fanning with depth bombs stored in run-ways on the after deck.

One of the camouflaged guns of the German shore batteries which raked with fire the Vindictive,
the Daffodil, and the Iris when they grappled with the mole, during the night raid.

The British Cruiser Curacao, Admiral Tyrwhitt's flagship, leading out one column of British
cruisers at the surrender of the German navy.

From left to right, Admiral Sir David Beatty, Admiral Rodman, King George, the Prince of Wales,
and Admiral Sims on the deck of the U.S. Battleship New York.

The heroic American ace, Raoul Lufbery, wearing his well-earned decorations just after an official
presentation.

A two-passenger tractor biplane flying near the seashore.

The official entry of General Allenby into Jerusalem, December 11, 1917.

David Lloyd George.

Georges Clemenceau.

Major General Clarence R. Edwards pinning the congressional Medal of Honor on the breast of
Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. Whittlesey.

Messages from Colonel Whittlesey and Lieutenant McKeogh.

This picture shows the standardized style of building used in every army in the United States.

A 10-inch caliber naval gun on a railroad mount.

A photograph from an airplane at 7900 feet, showing Love Field, Dallas, Texas, and a parachute
jumper.

The Red Cross War Fund and Membership poster.

A photograph of the United States Transport George Washington taken from an airplane.

President Wilson driving from the railroad station in Paris with President Poincaré of France.

Sergeant York wearing the French Croix de Guerre and the Congressional Medal of Honor.

Pronouncing Vocabulary (four images).

WINNING A CAUSE

WHY THE UNITED STATES ENTERED THE WAR

The United States was slow to enter the war, because her people believed war an evil to be
avoided at almost any cost except honor.  In fact, "Peace at any price" seemed to be the motto
of many Americans even after two years of the World War.

President Wilson declared in a speech at Philadelphia on May 10, 1915, that there is such a
thing as being too proud to fight.  He was severely criticized for his statement, and yet it
is very true, and for more than a generation it had been taught to American boys and girls.
Peace societies had sent lecturers to the public schools to point out the wickedness of war
and the blessings of peace.  Prizes had been offered to high school, normal school, and college
students for the best essays on Peace, How to Maintain the Peace of the World, and other similar
subjects.  To get ready for war by enlarging the army and navy was declared to be the very
best way to bring on war.  School reading books made a feature of peace selections, and school
histories were making as little of our national wars as possible.  These teachings and the
very air of the land of freedom made people too proud to fight, if there were any honorable
way of avoiding it.

It is said that "People judge others by themselves."  So Americans, being peaceful, contented,
and not possessed with envy of their neighbors, supposed all other civilized people were like
themselves. Therefore they could not at first believe that the Germans were different and looked
upon war as a glorious thing, because through it they might get possession of the wealth and
property of others. Perhaps the Germans, judging other people by themselves, believed that
the French and Russians and English, like the Germans, stood ready to go to war whenever through
it they might gain wealth and territory; but the Germans did not think this of the people of
the United States. They thought that they were a nation of traders and money-getters in love
with the Almighty Dollar.  As events proved, this idea was a fatal mistake on the part of the
Germans.

In entirely different ways, both Americans and Germans were taught that they were the people
above all other peoples in the world.  The German insolently sang "Germany above All" while
the American good-naturedly boasted his land as the freest, the noblest and best, leading all
the other countries and showing them the way to become greater and better. The American people,
however, did not intend to force their beliefs upon other nations.  But the Germans were led
by the idea that German Kultur would be a blessing for all mankind and that it was their destiny
to conquer and improve all other nations.

  Thor stood at the northernmost point of the world.
  His hammer flew from his hand.
  "So far as my hammer this arm has hurled,
  All mine are the sea and the land."
  And forward flew the giant tool
  Over the whole broad earth, to fall
  At last in the southernmost pool
  To prove that Thor's was all.
  Since then 'tis the pleasant German way
  By the hammer, lands to win,
  And to claim for themselves world-wide sway,
  As the Hammer-god's nearest kin.

But the American does not go this far.  While he is inclined to believe himself and his country
better than any other people or nation, yet he is content to let others live in their own way
as long as they are honest and do not interfere with him and his business.  He is, to be sure,
desirous of improving them, but by peaceful means, by building dams and railroads for them,
and by giving them schools and sending them missionaries.

It was difficult therefore for Americans to realize that the Germans really planned and desired
the war in order that they might rule the world.  It took months and even years of war for
the majority of Americans to come to a full realization of this truth.  This should be remembered
when the question is asked, not why the United States entered the war, but why she did not
enter it earlier.

Americans are honorable and look upon the breaking of a pledge or an agreement as a shameful
thing.  It was almost impossible for them to believe that a nation, far advanced in science
and learning of all kinds, could look upon a treaty as a scrap of paper and consider its most
solemn promises as not binding when it was to its advantage to break them.  Americans in their
homes, their churches, and their schools had been taught that "an honest man is the noblest
work of God."  They had heard the old saying that "All is fair in love and war"; but they could
not think for a moment that a whole nation of men and women had been taught that lies and treachery
and broken promises were fair because they helped the Fatherland work out its destiny and rule
the world.

They knew that Chancellor Bismarck falsified a telegram to bring on the war with France in
1870, and they learned to their dismay that Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg in 1914 declared the
treaty with Belgium only "a scrap of paper" when Germany wished to cross that country to strike
France.  Americans kept learning that Germany's promises to respect hospitals and hospital
ships, stretcher-bearers and the Red Cross, not to interfere with non-combatants, not to use
poison gas, not to bombard defenseless cities and towns were all "scraps of paper." They discovered
even the naturalization papers which Germans in America took out in order to become American
citizens were lies sworn to, for the German who declared his loyalty to his new mother country
was still held by Germany as owing his first fealty and duty to her.  It must be said, however,
that many Germans who became naturalized in the United States did not agree with these secret
orders of their Fatherland; but many others did, and the rulers of Germany encouraged such
deception.

It was many months after the beginning of the World War before the large body of American citizens
would believe that the German nation and the German people made a business of lies and deception,
and considered such a business just and proper when in the service of the Fatherland.  But
when Germany--after having promised the United States on May 4, 1916, that merchant ships would
not be sunk without warning or without giving the crews and passengers an opportunity for safety--on
January 31, 1917, informed Washington that she was not going to keep her promise and told the
German people that she had only made it in order to get time to build a great submarine fleet
which would bring England to her knees in three months--then the American people saw Germany
as she was and in her shame.

Of all the peoples of the earth, the Americans are probably the most sympathetic and helpful
to the weak and the afflicted.  They are the most merciful, striving to be kind not only to
people but even to animals.  The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, another
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and the numberless Bands of Mercy show the feeling
of the people of America toward the helpless.  Americans supposed that other people were like
them in this respect.  They knew of the German pensions to the widows and to the aged, and
they supposed that the efficient and enlightened Germans were among the merciful and sympathetic
to the weak and dependent.  The people of the United States knew, of course, of the Zabern
incident where two German soldiers held a crippled Alsatian cobbler while a German officer
slashed his face with his sword for laughing at him,--they knew that the German army officers
were haughty and overbearing, but they thought this came from their training and was not a
part of the German character.  Americans had read the Kaiser's directions to the German soldiers
going to China during the Boxer uprising to "Show no mercy!  Take no prisoners!  Use such frightfulness
that a Chinaman will never dare look at a German again.  Make a name for yourselves as the
Hun did long ago."  But the Americans, or most of them, did not believe that in the twentieth
century a nation classified among the civilized nations could or would adopt Frightfulness
as a policy.  But when they read of the devastation of Belgium and northern France; of the
destruction of Louvain; of whole villages of innocent men, women, and children being wiped
out; of the horrible crimes of the sinking of the Lusitania, the Falaba, and the Laconia; of
the execution of Edith Cavell; of the carrying off into slavery, or worse than slavery, of
the able-bodied women and men from the conquered territory--when Americans learned these horrors
one after another, they at last were forced to acknowledge that, like the brutal Assyrian kings
who sought to terrify their enemies into submission by standing as conquerors upon pyramids
of the slain, the modern Huns sought mastery by Frightfulness.

When most Americans came to realize that Germany was fighting a war to conquer the world, first
Russia and France, then England, and then the United States--for she had written Mexico that
if she would attack the United States, Germany and Mexico would make war and peace together--when
they came to know the German nature and the idea of the Germans, that Might makes Right and
that truth, honesty, and square dealing like mercy, pity, and love are only words of weaklings;
that they were a nation of liars and falsifiers and the most brutal of all people of recorded
history; when, added to this, the Americans realized that for over two years France and England
had really been fighting for everything for which the United States stood and which her people
held dear, for her very life and liberty, then America almost as one man declared for war.

Meanwhile Germany had declined to recognize the laws of nations which allowed America to sell
munitions to the Allies.  She had scattered spies through the United States to destroy property
and create labor troubles.  She had challenged the right of peaceful Americans to travel on
the high seas.  She had sunk the Lusitania with a loss of one hundred twenty-four American
lives; the Sussex, the Laconia with a loss of eight Americans, the Vigilancia with five, the
City of Memphis, the Illinois, the Healdton, and others.  She had tried to unite Mexico and
Japan against us.

Not until then, after the American people had become fully aware of the German character and
purposes, did Congress on April 6, 1917, declare a state of war existed between Germany and
the United States.  On that day the outcome of the war was decided.  Through her hideous selfishness,
her stupidity, and her brutality, Germany, after having spent nearly fifty years in preparation,
lost her opportunity for world dominion.  The resources and the fighting power of what she
looked upon as a nation of cowardly, money-loving merchants decided the conflict.

  AMERICA COMES IN

  We are coming from the ranch, from the city and the mine,
  And the word has gone before us to the towns upon the Rhine;
      As the rising of the tide
      On the Old-World side,
  We are coming to the battle, to the Line.

  From the Valleys of Virginia, from the Rockies in the North,
  We are coming by battalions, for the word was carried forth:
      "We have put the pen away
      And the sword is out today,
  For the Lord has loosed the Vintages of Wrath."

  We are singing in the ships as they carry us to fight,
  As our fathers sang before us by the camp-fires' light;
      In the wharf-light glare,
      They can hear us Over There
  When the ships come steaming through the night.

  Right across the deep Atlantic where the Lusitania passed,
  With the battle-flag of Yankee-land a-floating at the mast
      We are coming all the while,
      Over twenty hundred mile,
  And we're staying to the finish, to the last.

  We are many--we are one--and we're in it overhead,
  We are coming as an Army that has seen its women dead,
      And the old Rebel Yell
      Will be loud above the shell
  When we cross the top together, seeing red.

  KLAXTON.

  PERSHING AT THE TOMB OF LAFAYETTE

  They knew they were fighting our war.
    As the months grew to years
  Their men and their women had watched
    through their blood and their tears
  For a sign that we knew, we who could not
    have come to be free
  Without France, long ago.  And at last
    from the threatening sea
  The stars of our strength on the eyes
    of their weariness rose;
  And he stood among them,
    the sorrow strong hero we chose
  To carry our flag to the tomb
    of that Frenchman whose name
  A man of our country could once more
    pronounce without shame.
  What crown of rich words would he set
    for all time on this day?
  The past and the future were listening
    what he would say--
  Only this, from the white-flaming heart
    of a passion austere,
  Only this--ah, but France understood!
    "Lafayette, we are here."

  AMELIA JOSEPHINE BURR.

AMERICA ENTERS THE WAR

SPEECH BY LLOYD GEORGE, BRITISH PREMIER,

APRIL 12, 1917

I am in the happy position of being, I think, the first British Minister of the Crown who,
speaking on behalf of the people of this country, can salute the American Nation as comrades
in arms.  I am glad; I am proud.  I am glad not merely because of the stupendous resources
which this great nation will bring to the succor of the alliance, but I rejoice as a democrat
that the advent of the United States into this war gives the final stamp and seal to the character
of the conflict as a struggle against military autocracy throughout the world.

That was the note that ran through the great deliverance of President Wilson.  The United States
of America have the noble tradition, never broken, of having never engaged in war except for
liberty.  And this is the greatest struggle for liberty that they have ever embarked upon.
I am not at all surprised, when one recalls the wars of the past, that America took its time
to make up its mind about the character of this struggle.  In Europe most of the great wars
of the past were waged for dynastic aggrandizement and conquest.  No wonder when this great
war started that there were some elements of suspicion still lurking in the minds of the people
of the United States of America.  There were those who thought perhaps that kings were at their
old tricks--and although they saw the gallant Republic of France fighting, they some of them
perhaps regarded it as the poor victim of a conspiracy of monarchical swash-bucklers.  The
fact that the United States of America has made up its mind finally makes it abundantly clear
to the world that this is no struggle of that character, but a great fight for human liberty.

They naturally did not know at first what we had endured in Europe for years from this military
caste in Prussia.  It never has reached the United States of America.  Prussia was not a democracy.
The Kaiser promises that it will be a democracy after the war.  I think he is right.  But Prussia
not merely was not a democracy.  Prussia was not a state; Prussia was an army.  It had great
industries that had been highly developed; a great educational system; it had its universities;
it had developed its science.

All these were subordinate to the one great predominant purpose of all--a conquering army which
was to intimidate the world.  The army was the spearpoint of Prussia; the rest was merely the
haft.  That was what we had to deal with in these old countries.  It got on the nerves of Europe.
They knew what it all meant.  It was an army that in recent times had waged three wars, all
of conquest, and the unceasing tramp of its legions through the streets of Prussia, on the
parade grounds of Prussia, had got into the Prussian head.  The Kaiser, when he witnessed on
a grand scale his reviews, got drunk with the sound of it.  He delivered the law to the world
as if Potsdam was another Sinai, and he was uttering the law from the thunder clouds.

But make no mistake.  Europe was uneasy.  Europe was half intimidated. Europe was anxious.
Europe was apprehensive.  We knew the whole time what it meant.  What we did not know was the
moment it would come.

This is the menace, this is the apprehension from which Europe has suffered for over fifty
years.  It paralyzed the beneficent activity of all states, which ought to be devoted to concentrating
on the well-being of their peoples.  They had to think about this menace, which was there constantly
as a cloud ready to burst over the land.  No one can tell except Frenchmen what they endured
from this tyranny, patiently, gallantly, with dignity, till the hour of deliverance came. The
best energies of military science had been devoted to defending itself against the impending
blow.  France was like a nation which put up its right arm to ward off a blow, and could not
give the whole of her strength to the great things which she was capable of.  That great, bold,
imaginative, fertile mind, which would otherwise have been clearing new paths for progress,
was paralyzed.

That is the state of things we had to encounter.  The most characteristic of Prussian institutions
is the Hindenburg line.  What is the Hindenburg line?  The Hindenburg line is a line drawn
in the territories of other people, with a warning that the inhabitants of those territories
shall not cross it at the peril of their lives.  That line has been drawn in Europe for fifty
years.

You recollect what happened some years ago in France, when the French Foreign Minister was
practically driven out of office by Prussian interference.  Why?  What had he done?  He had
done nothing which a minister of an independent state had not the most absolute right to do.
He had crossed the imaginary line drawn in French territory by Prussian despotism, and he had
to leave.  Europe, after enduring this for generations, made up its mind at last that the Hindenburg
line must be drawn along the legitimate frontiers of Germany herself.  There could be no other
attitude than that for the emancipation of Europe and the world.

It was hard at first for the people of America quite to appreciate that Germany had not interfered
to the same extent with their freedom, if at all.  But at last they endured the same experience
as Europe had been subjected to.  Americans were told that they were not to be allowed to cross
and recross the Atlantic except at their peril.  American ships were sunk without warning.
American citizens were drowned, hardly with an apology--in fact, as a matter of German right.
At first America could hardly believe it.  They could not think it possible that any sane people
should behave in that manner.  And they tolerated it once, and they tolerated it twice, until
it became clear that the Germans really meant it.  Then America acted, and acted promptly.

The Hindenburg line was drawn along the shores of America, and the Americans were told they
must not cross it.  America said, "What is this?"  Germany said, "This is our line, beyond
which you must not go," and America said, "The place for that line is not the Atlantic, but
on the Rhine--and we mean to help you roll it up."

There are two great facts which clinch the argument that this is a great struggle for freedom.
The first is the fact that America has come in.  She would not have come in otherwise.  When
France in the eighteenth century sent her soldiers to America to fight for the freedom and
independence of that land, France also was an autocracy in those days.  But Frenchmen in America,
once they were there, their aim was freedom, their atmosphere was freedom, their inspiration
was freedom.  They acquired a taste for freedom, and they took it home, and France became free.
That is the story of Russia.  Russia engaged in this great war for the freedom of Serbia, of
Montenegro, of Bulgaria, and has fought for the freedom of Europe.  They wanted to make their
own country free, and they have done it.  The Russian revolution is not merely the outcome
of the struggle for freedom.  It is a proof of the character of the struggle for liberty, and
if the Russian people realize, as there is every evidence they are doing, that national discipline
is not incompatible with national freedom--nay, that national discipline is essential to the
security of national freedom--they will, indeed, become a free people.

I have been asking myself the question, Why did Germany, deliberately, in the third year of
the war, provoke America to this declaration and to this action--deliberately, resolutely?
It has been suggested that the reason was that there were certain elements in American life,
and the Hohenzollerns were under the impression that they would make it impossible for the
United States to declare war.  That I can hardly believe.  But the answer has been afforded
by Marshal von Hindenburg himself, in the very remarkable interview which appeared in the press,
I think, only this morning.

He depended clearly on one of two things.  First, that the submarine campaign would have destroyed
international shipping to such an extent that England would have been put out of business before
America was ready.  According to his computation, America cannot be ready for twelve months.
He does not know America.  Second, that when America is ready, at the end of twelve months,
with her army, she will have no ships to transport that army to the field of battle.  In von
Hindenburg's words, "America carries no weight."  I suppose he means she has no ships to carry
weight.  On that, undoubtedly, they are reckoning.

Well, it is not wise always to assume that even when the German General Staff, which has miscalculated
so often, makes a calculation it has no ground for it.  It therefore behooves the whole of
the Allies, Great Britain and America in particular, to see that that reckoning of von Hindenburg
is as false as the one he made about his famous line, which we have broken already. And with
that quickness of apprehension which characterizes your nation, I see that they fully realize
that, and today I observe that they have already made arrangements to build one thousand 3000-tonners
for the Atlantic.  I think that the German military advisers must already begin to realize
that this is another of the tragic miscalculations which are going to lead them to disaster
and to ruin. But you will pardon me for emphasizing that.  We are a slow people in these islands--slow
and blundering--but we get there.  You get there sooner, and that is why I am glad to see you in.

But may I say that we have been in this business for three years?  We have, as we generally
do, tried every blunder.  In golfing phraseology, we have got into every bunker.  But we have
got a good niblick.  We are right out on the course.  But may I respectfully suggest that it
is worth America's while to study our blunders, so as to begin just where we are now and not
where we were three years ago?  That is an advantage.  In war, time has as tragic a significance
as it has in sickness.  A step which, taken today, may lead to assured victory, taken tomorrow
may barely avert disaster.  All the Allies have discovered that.  It was a new country for
us all.  It was trackless, mapless.  We had to go by instinct.  But we found the way, and I
am so glad that you are sending your great naval and military experts here just to exchange
experiences with men who have been through all the dreary, anxious crises of the last three years.

America has helped us even to win the battle of Arras.  The guns which destroyed the German
trenches, shattered the barbed wire--I remember, with some friends of mine whom I see here,
arranging to order the machines to make those guns from America.  Not all of them--you got
your share, but only a share, a glorious share.  So that America has also had her training.
She has been making guns, making ammunition, giving us machinery to prepare both; she has supplied
us with steel, and she has all that organization, and all that wonderful facility, adaptability,
and resourcefulness of the great people which inhabits that great continent.  Ah!  It was a
bad day for military autocracy in Prussia when it challenged the great republic of the west.
We know what America can do, and we also know that now she is in it she will do it.  She will
wage an effective and successful war.

There is something more important.  She will insure a beneficent peace. To this I attach great
importance.  I am the last man to say that the succor which is given to us from America is
not something in itself to rejoice in, and to rejoice in greatly.  But I do not mind saying
that I rejoice even more in the knowledge that America is going to win the right to be at the
conference table when the terms of peace are being discussed.  That conference will settle
the destiny of nations--the course of human life--for God knows how many ages.  It would have
been tragic for mankind if America had not been there, and there with all the influence, all
the power, and the right which she has now won by flinging herself into this great struggle.

I can see peace coming now--not a peace which will be the beginning of war, not a peace which
will be an endless preparation for strife and bloodshed, but a real peace.  The world is an
old world.  It has never had peace.  It has been rocking and swaying like an ocean, and Europe--poor
Europe!--has always lived under the menace of the sword. When this war began two-thirds of
Europe were under autocratic rule. It is the other way about now, and democracy means peace.
The democracy of France did not want war; the democracy of Italy hesitated long before they
entered the war; the democracy of this country shrank from it--shrank and shuddered--and never
would have entered the caldron had it not been for the invasion of Belgium.  The democracies
sought peace; strove for peace.  If Prussia had been a democracy there would have been no war.
Strange things have happened in this war.  There are stranger things to come, and they are
coming rapidly.

There are times in history when this world spins so leisurely along its destined course that
it seems for centuries to be at a standstill; but there are also times when it rushes along
at a giddy pace, covering the track of centuries in a year.  Those are the times we are living
in now.  Today we are waging the most devastating war that the world has ever seen; tomorrow--perhaps
not a distant tomorrow--war may be abolished forever from the category of human crimes.  This
may be something like the fierce outburst of winter, which we are now witnessing, before the
complete triumph of the sun.  It is written of those gallant men who won that victory on Monday--men
from Canada, from Australia, and from this old country, which has proved that in spite of its
age it is not decrepit--it is written of those gallant men that they attacked with the dawn--fit
work for the dawn!--to drive out of forty miles of French soil those miscreants who had defiled
it for three years.  "They attacked with the dawn."  Significant phrase!

The breaking up of the dark rule of the Turk, which for centuries has clouded the sunniest
land in the world, the freeing of Russia from an oppression which has covered it like a shroud
for so long, the great declaration of President Wilson coming with the might of the great nation
which he represents into the struggle for liberty, are heralds of the dawn.  "They attacked
with the dawn," and these men are marching forward in the full radiance of that dawn, and soon
Frenchmen and Americans, British, Italians, Russians, yea, and Serbians, Belgians, Montenegrins,
will march into the full light of a perfect day.

THE FIRST TO FALL IN BATTLE

During the trench warfare, it was customary to raid the enemy trenches at unexpected hours,
sometimes during the night, often during "the sleepiest hour," just before the dawn.  In such
a raid made by the Germans in the early dawn of November 3, 1917, fell the first American soldiers
to die in the World War.

The Germans began by shelling the barbed-wire barrier in front of the trenches where the Americans
were stationed for a few days, taking their first lessons in trench warfare.  A heavy artillery
fire was then directed so as to cover the trenches and the country immediately back of them.
This prevented reinforcements coming into the trenches. Following the barrage a large number
of Huns broke through the barbed wire and jumped into the trenches.

The Americans did not fully understand the situation, for it was their first experience with
a trench raid.  A wounded private said, "I was standing in a communicating trench waiting for
orders.  I heard a noise back of me and looked around in time to see a German fire in my direction.
I felt a bullet hit my arm."

Three Americans were killed.  They were the first fighting under the American flag to fall
in battle on the soil of Europe.  They were--

Corporal James B. Gresham, Evansville, Indiana.

Private Merle D. Hay, Glidden, Iowa.

Private Thomas F. Enright, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.

On November 6, three graves were dug.  On one side of them stood a line of poilus in their
uniforms of horizon blue and red, and on the other a line of American soldiers in khaki.  The
flag-covered caskets were lowered, as the bugler sounded "taps," and the batteries fired minute
guns.

Then the French officer in command of the division, amid the broken roar of the minute guns
and the whistle of shells, paid a tribute to the dead.

"In the name of this division, in the name of the French army, and in the name of France, I
bid farewell to Corporal Gresham, Private Hay, and Private Enright of the American army.

