Canker or Brier Rose (Vol. vii, p. 500.).--I suspect that this term refers to the beautiful
mossy gall, so commonly seen on the branches of the wild rose, which has been called the bedeguar
of the rose. This is the production of a cynips; and, from its vivid tints of crimson and green,
might well pass at a short distance for a flower, brilliant, but scentless.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

Cancre and crabe in French are synonymous, meaning the same; Anglicè, crab (fish).

Now, we have crab-tree, a wild apple-tree; a canker rose, a wild rose; dog rose, dog-violet,
horse leech, horse chestnut. In all these cases the prefix denotes inferiority of species.

As some of your correspondents doubt as to the proper reading I have thought it worth while
to give this duplicate version. I recollect the inscription well, having been sorely puzzled,
when a schoolboy, in my frequent walks to High Sunderland, to understand these two inscriptions.
I must not omit the inscription on the south front:

 "Omnipotens faxet, stirps Sunderlandia sedes
  Incolet has placide, et tueatur jura parentum,
  Lite vacans, donec fluctus formica marinos
  Ebibat et totum testudo perambulet orbem!"

The commentary of the worthy historian is edifying:

    "The writer of these, or his son, alienated this very estate, which the
    then owner so earnestly wished might continue in the family for ever!"

JAMES CROSSLEY.

On the portico of Arley Hall, the seat of the ancient family of Warburton, and about four miles
from the town of Northwich, Cheshire, the following "free pass" to visitors appears, carved
in stone:

 "This gate is free to all men, good and true;
  Right welcome thou, if worthy to pass through."

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

"Time and I," &c. (Vol. vii., p. 181.).--Who was the author of this adage? Lord Mahon gives
it as a favourite saying of Mazarin (History of England, vol. ii. p. 100., small edition).
Mr. Stirling (Cloister Life of Charles V., p. 151., 2nd edition) tells us that it was a favourite
adage of {586} that temporising monarch. Perhaps it was a well-known Spanish proverb.

CHEVERELLS.

Lowbell (Vol. vii., p. 181.).--The inclosed was taken from the Northampton Herald of the 16th
April, 1853:

    "On Monday last this village was thrown into a state of great
    excitement by the tidings that a married labourer, named Samuel
    Peckover, had taken poison, with the intent of destroying himself. This
    was found to be the case. He had swallowed a dose of mercury, such as
    is commonly used for sheep, and, but for the timely arrival of Mr.
    Jones, surgeon, from Brackley, who administered him a powerful
    antidote, he would have expired within a short time. The circumstance
    which led the misguided man to attempt this rash act was as
    follows:--Although a married man, and wedded to a very respectable
    woman, he had seduced a young female of the village, named Adelaide
    Hirons, who was delivered of a female child on Saturday last. This
    disgraceful affair, of course, had become known to the neighbours, who
    expressed great indignation at his most disreputable conduct, and they
    in consequence determined to put him to open shame by 'lowbelling' him
    in front of his cottage in the evening, when all the old pots and
    kettles in the village were put in requisition, and a continual discord
    was kept up for two or three hours, by way of administering him a
    wholesome punishment for his breaking the marriage vows. It is supposed
    that the fear of this impending disgrace, and also remorse for his
    crime, were the cause of his thus attempting to make away with himself,
    and to rush unprepared and unpardoned into the presence of his Maker!"

F. JAMES.

