With the beginning of vol. iv. (that is to say, part ii. vol. ii.) we return, though still
in retrospect, to the direct fate of Mandane. Nitocris is dead, Philidaspes has succeeded to
the crown of Assyria, and has carried Mandane off to his own dominions. The situation with
so robustious a person as this prince may seem awkward, and indeed, as is observed in a later
part of the book, the heroine's repeated sojourns (there are three if not four of them in all[167])
in the complete power of one of the Rivals, with a large R, are very trying to Cyrus. However,
such a shocking thing as violence is hardly hinted at, and the Princess always succeeds, as
the Creole lady in Newton Forster said she did with the pirates, in "temporising," while her
abductors confine themselves for the most part to the finest "Phébus." Even the fiery Philidaspes,
though he breaks out sometimes, conveys his wish that Mandane should accompany him to Babylon
by pointing out that "the Euphrates is jealous of the Tigris for having first had the honour
of her presence," and that "the First City of the World ought clearly to possess the most illustrious
princess of the Earth." Of course, if there is any base person who cannot derive an Aramisian
satisfaction (v. sup.) from such things as this, he had better abstain from the Cyrus. But
happier souls they please--not exquisitely, perhaps, or tumultuously, but still well--with
a mild tickle which is not unvoluptuous. One is even a very little sorry for Philip Dastus
when he begs his cruel idol to write to him the single word ESPEREZ, and meanwhile kindly puts
it in capitals and a line to itself. Almost immediately afterwards an oracle juggles with him
in fashion delightful to himself, and puzzling to everybody except the intelligent reader,
who, it is hoped, will see the double meaning at once.

      Il t'est permis d'espérer
      De la faire soupirer,
        Malgré sa haine:
    Car un jour entre ses bras,
        Tu rencontreras
        La fin de ta peine.

Alas! without going further (upon honour and according to fact), one sees the other explanation--that
Mandane will have to perform the uncomfortable duty--often assigned to heroines--of having
Philidaspes die in her lap.

For the present, however, only discomfiture, not death, awaits him. The Medes blockade Babylon
to recover their princess; it suffers from hunger, and Philidaspes, with Mandane and the chivalrous
Sacian Prince Mazare, whom we have heard of before, escapes to Sinope. Then the events recorded
in the very beginning happen, and Mandane, after escaping the flames of Sinope through Mazare's
abduction of her by sea, and suffering shipwreck, falls into the power of the King of Pontus.
This calls a halt in the main story; and, as before, a "Troisième Livre" consists of another
huge inset--the hugest yet--of seven hundred pages this time, describing an unusually, if not
entirely, independent subject--the loves and fates of a certain Philosipe and a certain Polisante.
This volume contains a rather forcible boating-scene, which supplies the theme for the old
frontispiece.

Refreshed as usual by this excursion,[168] the author returns (in vol. v., bk. i., chap. iii.)
to Cyrus, who is once more in peril, and in a worse one than ever. Cyaxares, arriving at Sinope,
does not find his daughter, but does discover that Artamène, whom he does not yet know to be
Cyrus and heir to Persia, is in love with her. Owing chiefly to the wiles of a villain, Métrobate,
he arrests the Prince, and is on the point of having him executed, despite the protests of
the allied kings. But the whole army, with the Persian contingent at its head, assaults the
castle, and rescues Cyrus, after the traitor Métrobate has tried to double his treachery and
get Cyaxares assassinated. Nobody who remembers the Letter of Advice already quoted will doubt
what the conduct of Cyrus is. He only accepts the rescue in order that he may post himself
at the castle gate, and threaten to kill anybody who attacks Cyaxares.

After this burst, which is really exciting in a way, we must expect something more soporific.
Martésie takes the place of her absent mistress to some extent, and a good deal of what might
be mistaken for "Passerelle"[169] flirtation takes place, or would do so, if it were not that
Cyrus would, of course, die rather than pay attention to anybody but Mandane herself, and that
Feraulas, already mentioned as one of the Faithful Companions, is detailed as Martésie's lover.
She is, however, installed as a sort of Vice-Queen of a wordy tourney between four unhappy
lovers, who fill up the rest of the volume with their stories of "Amants Infortunés" (cf. the
original title of the Heptameron), dealing respectively with and told by--

(1) A lover who is loved, but separated from his mistress.

(2) One who is unloved.

(3) A jealous one.

(4) One whose love is dead.[170]

They do it moderately, in rather less than five hundred pages, and Martésie sums up in a manner
worthy of any Mistress of the Rolls, contrasting their fates, and deciding very cleverly against
the jealous man.

The first twenty pages or so of the sixth volume (nominally iii. 2) afford a good example of
the fashion in which, as may be observed more fully below, even an analysis of the Grand Cyrus,
though a great advance on mere general description of it, must be still (unless it be itself
intolerably voluminous) insufficient. Not very much actually "happens"; but if you simply skip,
you miss a fresh illustration of magnanimity not only in Cyrus, but in a formerly mentioned
character, Aglatidas, with reference to the heroine Amestris earlier inset in the tale (v.
sup.). And this is an example of the new and sometimes very ingenious fashion in which these
apparent excursions are turned into something like real episodes, or at any rate supply connecting
threads of the whole, in a manner not entirely unlike that which some critics have so hastily
and unjustly overlooked in Spenser. Then we have an imbroglio about forged letters, and a clearing-up
of a former charge against the hero, and (still within the twenty pages) a very curious scene--the
last for the time--of that flirtation-without-flirtation between Cyrus and Martésie. She wants
to have back a picture of Mandane, which she has lent him to worship; and he replies, looking
at her "attentively" (one wonders whether Mandane, if present, would have been entirely satisfied
with his "attention"), addresses her as "Cruel Person," and asks her (he is just setting out
for the Armenian war) how she thinks he can conquer when she takes away what should make him
invincible. To which replies Miss Martésie, "You have gained so many victories [ahem!] without
this help, that it would seem you have no need of it." This is very nice, and Martésie, who
is herself, as previously observed, quite nice throughout, lets him have the picture after
all. But Cyrus, for once rather ungraciously, will not allow her lover, and his henchman, Feraulas
to escort her home; first, because he wants Feraulas's services himself, and secondly, because
it is unjust that Feraulas should be happy with Martésie when Cyrus is miserable without Mandane--an
argument which, whether slightly selfish or not, is at any rate in complete keeping with the
whole atmosphere of the book.

[Sidenote: The advent of Araminta.]

Now, as this is by no means a very exceptional, certainly not a unique, score of pages, and
as it has taken almost a whole one of ours to give a rather imperfect notion of its contents,
it follows that it would take about six hundred, if not more, to do justice to the ten or twelve
thousand of the original. Which (in one of the most immortal of formulas) "is impossible."
We must fall back, therefore, on the system already pursued for the rest of this volume, and
perhaps even contract its application in some cases. A rash promise of the now entirely, if
not also rather insanely,[171] generous Prince not to marry Mandane without fighting Philidaspes,
or rather the King of Assyria, beforehand, is important; and an at last minute description
of Cyrus's person and equipment as he sets out (on one of the proudest and finest horses that
ever was, with a war-dress the superbest that can be imagined, and with Mandane's magnificent
scarf put on for the first time) is not quite omissible. But then things become intricate.
Our old friend Spithridates comes back, and has first love affairs and afterwards an enormous
récit-episode with a certain Princess of Pontus, whom Cyrus, reminding one slightly of Bentley
on Mr. Pope's Homer and Tommy Merton on Cider, pronounces to be belle, blonde, blanche et bien
faite, but not Mandane; and who has the further charm of possessing, for the first time in
literature if one mistakes not, the renowned name of Araminta. A pair of letters between these
two will be useful as specimens, and to some, it may be hoped, agreeable in themselves.

     SPITHRIDATES TO THE PRINCESS ARAMINTA

     [Sidenote: Her correspondence with Spithridates.]

     I depart, Madam, because you wish it: but, in departing, I
     am the most unhappy of all men. I know not whither I go; nor
     when I shall return; nor even if you wish that I should
     return; and yet they tell me I must live and hope. But I
     should not know how to do either the one or the other,
     unless you order me to do both by two lines in your own
     hand. Therefore I beg them of you, divine Princess--in the
     name of an illustrious person, now no more, [her brother
     Sinnesis, who had been a great friend of his], but who will
     live for ever in the memory of

                              SPITHRIDATES.

     [He can hardly have hoped for anything better than the
     following answer, which is much more "downright Dunstable"
     than is usual here.]

     ARAMINTA TO SPITHRIDATES

     Live as long as it shall please the Gods to allow you. Hope
     as long as Araminta lives--she begs you: and even if you
     yourself wish to live, she orders you to do so.

     [In other words he says, "My own Araminta, say 'Yes'!" and
     she does. This attitude necessarily involves the despair of
     a Rival, who writes thus:]

     PHARNACES TO THE PRINCESS ARAMINTA

     If Fortune seconds my designs, I go to a place where I shall
     conquer and die--where I shall make known, by my generous
     despair, that if I could not deserve your affection by my
     services, I shall have at least not made myself unworthy of
     your compassion by my death.

     [And, to do him justice, he "goes and does it."]

This episode, however, did not induce Mademoiselle Madeleine to break her queer custom of having
something of the same kind in the Third Book of every Part. For though there is some "business,"
it slips into another regular "History," this time of Prince Thrasybulus, a naval hero, of
whom we have often heard, and his Alcionide, not a bad name for a sailor's mistress.[172] Finally,
we come back to more events of a rather troublesome kind: for the ci-devant Philidaspes most
inconveniently insists in taking part in the rescuing expedition, which--saving scandal of
great ones--is very much as if Mr. William Sikes should insist in helping to extract booty
from Mr. Tobias Crackit. And we finally leave Cyrus in a decidedly awkward situation morally,
and the middle of a dark wood physically.

[Sidenote: Some interposed comments.]

Here, according to that paulo-post-future precedent which she did so much to create, the authoress
was quite justified in leaving him at the end of a volume; and perhaps the present historian
is, to compare small things with great, equally justified in heaving-to (to borrow from Mr.
Kipling) and addressing a small critical sermon to such crew as he may have attracted. We have
surveyed not quite a third of the book; but this ought in any case--teste the loved and lost
"three-decker" which the allusion just made concerns--to give us a notion of the author's quality
and of his or her faire. It should not be very difficult for anybody, unless the foregoing
analysis has been very clumsily done, to discern considerable method in Madeleine's mild madness,
and, what is more, not a little originality. The method has, no doubt, as it was certain to
have in the circumstances, a regular irregularity, which is, or would be in anybody but a novice,
a little clumsy: and the originality may want some precedent study to discover it. But both
are there. The skeleton of this vast work may perhaps be fairly constructed from what has already
been dissected of the body; and the method of clothing the skeleton reveals itself without
much difficulty. You have the central idea in the loves of Cyrus and Mandane, which are to
be made as true as possible, but also running as roughly as may be. Moreover, whether they
run rough or smooth, you are to keep them in suspense as long as you possibly can. The means
of doing this are laboriously varied and multiplied. The clumsiest of them--the perpetual intercalation
or interpolation of "side-shows" in the way of Histoires--annoys modern readers particularly,
and has, as a rule, since been itself beautifully and beneficently lessened, in some cases
altogether discarded, or changed--in emancipation from the influence of the "Unities"--to the
form of second plots, not ostentatiously severed from the main one. But, as has been pointed
out, a great deal of trouble is at any rate taken to knit them to the main plot itself, if
not actually and invariably to incorporate them therewith; and the means of this are again
not altogether uncraftsmanlike. Sometimes, as in the case of Spithridates, the person, or one
of the persons, is introduced first in the main history; his own particular concerns are dealt
with later, and, for good or for evil, he returns to the central scheme. Sometimes, as in that
of Amestris, you have the Histoire before the personage enters the main story. Then there is
the other device of varying direct narrative, as to this main story itself, with Récit; and
always you have a careful peppering in of new characters, by histoire, by récit, or by the
main story, to create fresh interests. Again, there is the contrast of "business," as we have
called it--fighting and politics--with love-making and miscellaneous fine talk. And, lastly,
there are--what, if they were not whelmed in such an ocean of other things, would attract more
notice--the not unfrequent individual phrases and situations which have interest in themselves.
It must surely be obvious that in these things are great possibilities for future use, even
if the actual inventor has not made the most of them.

Their originality may perhaps deserve a little more comment.[173] The mixture of secondary
plots might, by a person more given to theorise than the present historian--who pays his readers
the compliment of supposing that that excessively easy and therefore somewhat negligible business
can be done by themselves if they wish--be traced to an accidental feature of the later mediaeval
romances. In these the congeries of earlier texts, which the compiler had not the wits, or
at least the desire, to systematise, provided something like it; but required the genius of
a Spenser, or the considerable craft of a Scudéry, to throw it into shape and add the connecting
links. Many of the other things are to be found in the Scudéry romance practically for the
first time. And the suffusion of the whole with a new tone and colour of at least courtly manners
is something more to be counted, as well as the constant exclusion of the clumsy "conjuror's
supernatural" of the Amadis group. That the fairy story sprung up, to supply the always graceful
supernatural element in a better form, is a matter which will be dealt with later in this chapter.
The oracles, etc., of the Cyrus belong, of course, to the historical, not the imaginative side
of the presentation; but may be partly due to the Astrée, the influence of which was, we saw,
admitted.

[Sidenote: Analysis resumed.]

It may seem unjust that the more this complication of interests increases, the less complete
should be the survey of them; and yet a moment's thought will show that this is almost a necessity.
Moreover, the methods do not vary much; it is only that they are applied to a larger and larger
mass of accumulating material. The first volume of the Fourth Part, the seventh of the twenty,
follows--though with that absence of slavish repetition which has been allowed as one of the
graces of the book--the general scheme. Cyrus gets out of the wood literally, but not figuratively;
for when he and the King of Assyria have joined forces, to pursue that rather paradoxical alliance
which is to run in couple with rivalry for love and to end in a personal combat, they see on
the other side of a river a chariot, in which Mandane probably or certainly is. But the river
is unbridged and unfordable, and no boats can be had; so that, after trying to swim it and
nearly getting drowned, they have to relinquish the game that had been actually in sight. Next,
two things happen. First, Martésie appears (as usually to our satisfaction), and in consequence
of a series of accidents, shares and solaces Mandane's captivity. Then, on the other side,
Panthea, Queen of Susiana, and wife of one of the enemy princes, falls into Cyrus's hands,
and with Araminta (who is, it should have, if it has not been, said earlier, sister of the
King of Pontus) furnishes valuable hostage for good treatment of Mandane and other Medo-Persian-Phrygian-Hircanian
prisoners.

Things having thus been fairly bustled up for a time, a Histoire is, of course, imminent, and
we have it, of about usual length, concerning the Lydian Princess Palmis and a certain Cléandre;
while, even when this is done, we fall back, not on the main story, but once more on that of
Aglatidas and Amestris, which is in a sad plight, for Amestris (who has been married against
her will and is maumariée too) thinks she is a widow, and finds she is not.

It has just been mentioned that Palmis is a Lydian Princess; and before the end of this Part
Croesus comes personally into the story, being the head of a formidable combination to supplant
the King of Pontus, detain Mandane, and, if possible (as the well-known oracle, in the usual
ambiguity (v. inf.), encourages him to hope), conquer the Medo-Persian empire and make it his
own. But the Histoire mania--now further excited by consistence in working the personages so
obtained in generally--is in great evidence, and "Lygdamis and Cléonice" supply a large proportion
of the early and all the middle of the eighth volume, the second of the Fourth Part. There
is, however, much more business than usual at the end to make up for any slackness at the beginning.
In a side-action with the Lydians both Cyrus and the King of Assyria are captured by force
of numbers, though the former is at once released by the Princess Palmis, as well as Artames,
son of Cyrus's Phrygian ally, whom Croesus chooses to consider as a rebel, and intends to put
to death. Here, however, the captive Queen and Princess, Panthea and Araminta, come into good
play, and exercise strong and successful influence through the husband of the one and the brother
of the other. But at the end of book, volume, and part we leave Cyrus once more in the dismals.
For though he has actually seen Mandane he cannot get at her, and he has heard three apparently
most unfavourable oracles; the Babylonian one, which was quoted above, and which he, like everybody
else, takes as a promise of success to Philidaspes; the ambiguous Delphic forecast of "the
fall of an Empire" to Croesus; and that of his own death at the hands of a hostile queen, the
only one which, historically, was to be fulfilled in its apparent sense, while the others were
not. He cares, indeed, not much about the two last, but infinitely about the first.

At the opening of the Fifth Part (ninth volume) there is a short but curious "Address to the
Reader," announcing the fulfilment of the first half of the promised production, and bidding
him not be downhearted, for the first of the second half (the Sixth Part or eleventh volume
of the whole) is actually at Press. It may be noticed that there is a swagger about these avis
and such like things, which probably is attributable to Georges, and not to Madeleine.[174]

The inevitable Histoire comes earlier than usual in this division, and is of unusual importance;
for it deals with two persons of great distinction, and already introduced in the story, Queen
Panthea and her husband Abradates. It is also one of the longer batch, running to some four
hundred pages; and a notable part in it and in the future main story is played by one Doralise--a
pretty name, which Dryden, making it prettier still by substituting a c for the s, borrowed
for his most original and (with that earlier Florimel of The Maiden Queen, who is said to have
been studied directly off Nell Gwyn) perhaps his most attractive heroine, the Doralice of Marriage
à la Mode. Another important character, the villain of the sub-plot, is one Mexaris.[175] At
the end of the first instalment we leave Cyrus preparing elaborate machines of war to crush
the Lydians.

Early in Book II. we hear of a mysterious warrior on the enemy side whom nobody knows, who
calls himself Telephanes, and whom Cyrus is very anxious to meet in battle, but for the time
cannot. He is also frustrated in his challenge of the King of Pontus to fight for Mandane--a
challenge of which Croesus will not hear. At last Telephanes turns out to be no less a person
than Mazare, Prince of Sacia, whom we know already as one of the ever-multiplying lovers and
abductors of the heroine; while, after a good deal of confused fighting, another inset Histoire
of him closes the tenth volume (V. ii.). It is, however, only two hundred pages long--a mere
parenthesis compared to others, and it leads up to his giving Cyrus a letter from Mandane--an
act of generosity which Philidaspes, otherwise King of Assyria, frankly confesses that he,
as another Rival, could never have done. After yet another Histoire (now a "four-some") of
Belesis, Hermogenes, Cléodare, and Léonice, Abradates changes sides, carrying us on to an "intricate
impeach" of old and new characters, especially Araminta and Spithridates, and to the death
in battle of the generous King of Susiana himself, and the grief of Panthea. There is, at the
close of this volume, a rather interesting Privilège du Roi, signed by Conrart ("le silencieux
Conrart"), sealed with "the great seal of yellow wax in a simple tail" (one ribbon or piece
of ferret only?), and bestowing its rights "nonobstant Clameur de Haro, Charte Normande, et
autres lettres contraires."

The first volume of the Sixth Part (the eleventh of the whole and the first of what, as so
many words of the kind are required, we may call the Second Division) has plenty of business--showing
that the author or her adviser was also a business-like person--to commence the new venture.
Cyrus, after being victorious in the field and just about to besiege Sardis in form, receives
a "bolt from the blue" in the shape of a letter "From the unhappy Mandane to the faithless"--himself!
She has learnt, she tells him, that his feelings towards her are changed, requests that she
may no longer serve as a pretext for his ambition, and--rather straining the prerogatives assumed
even by her nearest ancestresses in literature, the Polisardas and Miraguardas of the Amadis
group, but scarcely dreamt of by the heroines of ancient Greek Romance--desires that he will
send back to her father Cyaxares all the troops that he is, as she implies, commanding on false
pretences.

Now one half expects that Cyrus, in a transport of Amadisian-Euphuist-heroism, will comply
with this very modest request. In fact it is open to any one to contend that, according to
the strictest rules of the game, he ought to have done so and gone mad, or at least marooned
himself in some desert island, in consequence. The sophistication, however, of the stage appears
here. After a very natural sort of "Well, I never!" translated into proper heroic language,
he sets to work to identify the person whom Mandane suspects to be her rival--for she has carefully
abstained from naming anybody. And he asks--with an ingenious touch of self-confession which
does the author great credit, if it was consciously laid on--whether it can be Panthea or Araminta,
with both of whom he has, in fact, been, if not exactly flirting, carrying on (as the time
itself would have said) a "commerce of respectful and obliging admiration." He has a long talk
with his confidant Feraulas (whose beloved and really lovable Martésie is, unluckily, not at
hand to illuminate the mystery), and then he writes as "The Unfortunate Cyrus to the Unjust
Mandane," tells her pretty roundly, though, of course, still respectfully, that if she knew
how things really were "she would think herself the cruellest and most unjust person in the
world." [I should have added, "just as she is, in fact, the most beautiful."] She is, he says,
his first and last passion, and he has never been more than polite to any one else. But she
will kindly excuse his not complying with her request to send back his army until he has vanquished
all his Rivals--where, no doubt, in the original, the capital was bigger and more menacing
than ever, and was written with an appropriate gnashing of teeth.

The traditional balance of luck and love, however, holds; and the armies of Croesus and the
King of Pontus begin to melt away; so that, after a short but curious pastoral episode, they
have to shut themselves up in the capital. The dead body of Abradates is now found, and his
widow Panthea stabs herself upon it. This removes one of Mandane's possible causes of jealousy,
but Araminta remains; and, as a matter of fact, it is this Princess on whom her suspicion has
been cast, arising partly, though helped by makebates, from the often utilised personal resemblance
between her actual lover, Prince Spithridates, and Cyrus. The treacherous King of Pontus has,
in fact, shown her a letter from Araminta (his sister, be it remembered) which seems to encourage
the idea.

All this, however, and more fills but a hundred pages or so, and then we are as usual whelmed
in a Histoire de Timarète et de Parthénie, which takes up four times the space, and finishes
the First Book. The Second opens smartly enough with the actual siege of Sardis; but we cannot
get rid of Araminta (it is sad to have to wish that she was not "our own Araminta" quite so
often) and Spithridates. Conversations between the still prejudiced Mandane and the Lydian
Princess Palmis--a sensible and agreeable girl--are better; but from them we are hurled into
a Histoire de Sésostre (the Egyptian prince, son of Amasis, who is now an ally of Cyrus) et
de Timarète, which not only fills the whole of the rest of the volume, but swells over into
the next, being much occupied with the villainies of a certain Heracleon, who is at the time
a wounded prisoner in Cyrus's Camp. The siege is kept up briskly, but Cyrus's courteous release
of certain captives adds fuel to Mandane's wrath as having been procured by Araminta. He will
do anything for Araminta! The releases themselves give rise to fresh "alarums and excursions,"
among which we again meet a pretty name (Candiope), borrowed by Dryden. Doralise is also much
to the fore; and we have a regular Histoire, though a shorter one than usual, of Arpalice and
Thrasimède, which will, as some say, "bulk largely" later. The length of this part is, indeed,
enormous, the double volume running to over fourteen hundred pages, instead of the usual ten
or twelve. But its close is spirited and sufficiently interim-catastrophic. Cyrus discovers
in the enceinte of Sardis the usual weak point--an apparently impregnable scarped rock, which
has been weakly fortified and garrisoned--takes it by escalade in person with his best paladins,
and after it the city.

But of course he cannot expect to have it all his own way when not quite twelve-twentieths
of the book are gone, and he finds that Mandane is gone likewise; the King of Pontus, who has
practically usurped the authority of Croesus, having once more carried her off--perhaps not
so entirely unwilling as before. Cyrus pursues, and while he is absent the King of Assyria
(Philidaspes) shows himself even more of a "Philip Devil" than usual by putting the captive
Lydian prince on a pyre, threatening to burn him if he will not reveal the place of the Princess's
flight, and actually having the torch applied. Of course Cyrus turns up at the nick of time,
has the fire put out, rates the King of Assyria soundly for his violence, and apologises handsomely
to Croesus. The notion of an apology for nearly roasting a man may appear to have its ludicrous
side, but the way in which the historic pyre and the mention of Solon are brought in without
discrediting the hero is certainly ingenious. The Mandane-hunt is renewed, but fruitlessly.

At the beginning of Part VII. there are--according to the habit noticed, and in rather extra
measure as regards "us" if not "them"--some interesting things. The first is an example--perhaps
the best in the book--of the elaborate description (called in Greek rhetorical technique ecphrasis)
which is so common in the Greek Romances. The subject is an extraordinarily beautiful statue
of a woman which Cyrus sees in Croesus's gallery, and which will have sequels later. It, or
part of it, may be given:

     [Sidenote: The statue in the gallery at Sardis.]

     But, among all these figures of gold, there was to be seen
     one of marble, so wonderful, that it obliged Cyrus to stay
     longer in admiring it than in contemplating any of the
     others, though it was not of such precious material. It is
     true that it was executed with such art, and represented
     such a beautiful person, as to prevent any strangeness in
     its charming a Prince whose eyes were so delicate and so
     capable of judging all beautiful objects. This statue was of
     life-size, placed upon a pedestal of gold, on the four sides
     of which were bas-reliefs of an admirable beauty. On each
     were seen captives, chained in all sorts of fashions, but
     chained only by little Loves, unsurpassably executed. As for
     the figure itself, it represented a girl about eighteen
     years old, but one of surprising and perfect beauty. Every
     feature of the face was marvellously fine;[176] her figure
     was at once so noble and so graceful that nothing more
     elegant[177] could be seen; and her dress was at once so
     handsome and so unusual, that it had something of each of
     the usual garbs of Tyrian ladies, of nymphs, and of
     goddesses; but more particularly that of the Wingless
     Victory, as represented by the Athenians, with a simple
     laurel crown on her head. This statue was so well set on its
     base, and had such lively action, that it seemed actually
     animated; the face, the throat, the arms, and the hands were
     of white marble, as were the legs and feet, which were
     partly visible between the laces of the buskins she wore,
     and which were to be seen because, with her left hand, she
     lifted her gown a little, as if to walk more easily. With
     her right she held back a veil, fastened behind her head
     under the crown of laurel, as though to prevent its being
     carried away by the breeze, which seemed to agitate it. The
     whole of the drapery of the figure was made of
     divers-coloured marbles and jaspers; and, in particular, the
     gown of this fair Phoenician, falling in a thousand graceful
     folds, which still did not hide the exact proportion of her
     body, was of jasper, of a colour so deep that it almost
     rivalled Tyrian purple itself. A scarf, which passed
     negligently round her neck, and was fastened on the
     shoulder, was of a kind of marble, streaked with blue and
     white, which was very agreeable to the eye. The veil was of
     the same substance; but sculptured so artfully that it
     seemed as soft as mere gauze. The laurel crown was of green
     jasper, and the buskins, as well as the sash she wore, were,
     again of different hues. This sash brought together all the
     folds of the gown over the hips; below, they fell again more
     carelessly, and still showed the beauty of her figure. But
     what was most worthy of admiration in the whole piece was
     the spirit which animated it, and almost persuaded the
     spectators that she was just about to walk and talk. There
     was even a touch of art in her face, and a certain
     haughtiness in her attitude which made her seem to scorn the
     captives chained beneath her feet: while the sculptor had so
     perfectly realised the indefinable freshness, tenderness,
     and embonpoint of beautiful girls, that one almost knew
     her age.

Then come two more startling events. A wicked Prince Phraortes bolts with the unwilling Araminta,
and the King of Assyria (alias Philidaspes) slips away in search of Mandane on his own account--two
things inconvenient to Cyrus in some ways, but balancing themselves in others. For if it is
unpleasant to have a very violent and rather unscrupulous Rival hunting the beloved on the
one hand, that beloved's jealousy, if not cured, is at least not likely to be increased by
the disappearance of its object. This last, however, hits Spithridates, who is, as it has been
and will be seen, the souffre-douleur of the book, much harder. And the double situation illustrates
once more the extraordinary care taken in systematising--and as one might almost say syllabising--the
book. It is almost impossible that there should not somewhere exist an actual syllabus of the
whole, though, my habit being rather to read books themselves than books about them, I am not
aware of one as a fact.[178]

Another characteristic is also well illustrated in this context, and a further translated extract
will show the curious, if not very recondite, love-casuistry which plays so large a part. But
these French writers of the seventeenth century[179] did not know one-tenth of the matter that
was known by their or others' mediaeval ancestors, by their English and perhaps Spanish contemporaries,
or by writers in the nineteenth century. They were not "perfect in love-lore"; their Liber
Amoris was, after all, little more than a fashion-book in divers senses of "fashion." But let
them speak for themselves:

     [Sidenote: The judgment of Cyrus in a court of love.]

     [Ménécrate and Thrasimède are going to fight, and have,
     according to the unqualified legal theory[180] and very
     occasional actual practice of seventeenth-century France, if
     not of the Medes and Persians, been arrested, though in
     honourable fashion. The "dependence" is a certain Arpalice,
     who loves Thrasimède and is loved by him. But she is ordered
     by her father's will to marry Ménécrate, who is now quite
     willing to marry her, though she hates him, and though he
     has previously been in love with Androclée, to whom he has
     promised that he will not marry the other. A sort of
     informal Cour d'Amour is held on the subject, the
     President being Cyrus himself, and the judges Princesses
     Timarète and Palmis, Princes Sesostris and Myrsilus, with
     "Toute la compagnie" as assessors and assessoresses. After
     much discussion, it is decided to disregard the dead
     father's injunction and the living inconstant's wishes, and
     to unite Thrasimède and Arpalice. But the chief points of
     interest lie in the following remarks:]

     "As it seems to me," said Cyrus, "what we ought most to
     consider in this matter is the endeavour to make the fewest
     possible persons unhappy, and to prevent a combat between
     two gentlemen of such gallantry, that to whichever side
     victory inclines, we should have cause to regret the
     vanquished. For although Ménécrate is inconstant and a
     little capricious, he has, for all that, both wits and a
     heart. We must, then, if you please," added he, turning to
     the two princesses, "consider that if Arpalice were forced
     to carry out her father's testament and marry Ménécrate,
     everybody would be unhappy, and he would have to fight two
     duels,[181] one against Thrasimède and one against
     Philistion (Androclée's brother), the one fighting for his
     mistress, the other for his sister." "No doubt," said
     Lycaste, "several people will be unhappy, but, methinks, not
     all; for at any rate Ménécrate will possess his mistress."
     "'Tis true," said Cyrus, "that he will possess Arpalice's
     beauty; but I am sure that as he would not possess her
     heart, he could not call himself satisfied; and his greatest
     happiness in this situation would be having prevented the
     happiness of his Rival. As for the rest of it, after the
     first days of his marriage, he would be in despair at having
     wedded a person who hated him, and whom he, perhaps, would
     have ceased to love; for, considering Ménécrate's humour, I
     am the most deceived of all men if the possession of what he
     loves is not the very thing to kill all love in his heart.
     As for Arpalice, it is easy to see that, marrying Ménécrate,
     whom she hates, and not marrying Thrasimède, whom she
     loves, she would be very unhappy indeed; nor could
     Androclée, on her side, be particularly satisfied to see a
     man like Ménécrate, whom she loves passionately, the husband
     of another. Philistion could hardly be any more pleased to
     see Ménécrate, after promising to marry his sister, actually
     marrying another. As for Thrasimède, it is again easy to
     perceive that, being as much in love with Arpalice as he is,
     and knowing that she loves him, he would have good reason
     for thinking himself one of the unhappiest lovers in the
     world if his Rival possessed his mistress. Therefore, from
     what I have said, you will see that by giving Arpalice to
     Ménécrate, everybody concerned is made miserable; for even
     Parmenides [not the philosopher, but a friend of Ménécrate,
     whose sister, however, has rejected him], though he may
     make a show of being still attached to the interests of
     Ménécrate, will be, unless I mistake, well enough pleased
     that his sister should not marry the brother of a person
     whom he never wishes to see again, and by whom he has been
     ill-treated. Then, if we look at the matter from the other
     side and propose to give Arpalice to Thrasimède, it remains
     an unalterable fact that these two people will be happy;
     that Philistion will be satisfied; that justice will be done
     to Androclée; that nothing disobliging will be done to
     Parmenides, and that Ménécrate will be made by force more
     happy than he wishes to be; for we shall give him a wife by
     whom he is loved, and take from him one by whom he is hated.
     Moreover, things being so, even if he refuses to subject his
     whim to his reason, he can wish to come to blows with
     Thrasimède alone, and would have nothing to ask of
     Philistion; besides which, his sentiments will change as
     soon as Thrasimède is Arpalice's husband. One often fights
     with a Rival, thinking to profit by his defeat, when he has
     not married the beloved object; but one does not so readily
     fight the husband of one's mistress, as being her
     lover.[182]"

Much about the "Good Rival" (as we may call him) Mazare follows, and there is an illuminative
sentence about our favourite Doralise's humeur enjouée et critique, which, as the rest of her
part does, gives us a "light" as to the origin of those sadly vulgarised lively heroines of
Richardson's whom Lady Mary very justly wanted to "slipper." Doralise and Martésie are ladies,
which the others, unfortunately, are not. And then we pay for our ecphrasis by an immense Histoire
of the Tyrian Élise, its original.

At the beginning of VII. ii. Cyrus is in the doldrums. Many of his heroes have got their heroines--the
personages of bygone histoires--and are honeymooning and (to borrow again from Mr. Kipling)
"dancing on the deck." He is not. Moreover, the army, like all seventeenth-century armies after
victory and in comfortable quarters, is getting rather out of hand; and he learns that the
King of Pontus has carried Mandane off to Cumae--not the famous Italian Cumae, home of the
Sibyl whom Sir Edward Burne-Jones has fixed for us, and of many classical memories, but a place
somewhere near Miletus, defended by unpleasant marshes on land, and open to the sea itself,
the element on which Cyrus is weakest, and by which the endlessly carried off Mandane may readily
be carried off again. He sends about for help to Phoenicia and elsewhere; but when, after a
smart action by land against the town, a squadron does appear off the port, he is for a time
quite uncertain whether it is friend or foe. Fortunately Cléobuline, Queen of Corinth, a young
widow of surpassing beauty and the noblest sentiments, who has sworn never to marry again,
has conceived a Platonic-romantic admiration for him, and has sent her fleet to his aid. She
deserves, of course, and still more of course has, a Histoire de Cléobuline. Also the inestimable
Martésie writes to say that Mandane has been dispossessed of her suspicions, and that the King
of Pontus is, in the race for her favour, nowhere. The city falls, and the lovers meet. But
if anybody thinks for a moment that they are to be happy ever afterwards, Arithmetic, Logic,
and Literary History will combine to prove to him that he is very much mistaken. In order to
make these two lovers happy at all, not only time and space, but six extremely solid volumes
would have to be annihilated.

The close of VII. ii. and the whole of VIII. i. are occupied with imbroglios of the most characteristic
kind. There is a certain Anaxaris, who has been instrumental in preventing Mandane from being,
according to her almost invariable custom, carried off from Cumae also. To whom, though he
is one of the numerous "unknowns" of the book, Cyrus rashly confides not only the captainship
of the Princess's guards, but various and too many other things, especially when "Philip Devil"
turns up once more, and, seeing the lovers in apparent harmony, claims the fulfilment of Cyrus's
rash promise to fight him before marrying. This gets wind in a way, and watch is kept on Cyrus
by his friends; but he, thinking of the parlous state of his mistress if both her principal
lovers were killed--for Prince Mazare is, so to speak, out of the running, while the King of
Pontus is still lying perdu somewhere--entrusts the secret to Anaxaris, and begs him to take
care of her. Now Anaxaris--as is so usual--is not Anaxaris at all, but Aryante, Prince of the
Massagetae and actually brother of the redoubtable Queen Thomyris; and he also has fallen a
victim to Mandane's fascinations, which appear to be irresistible, though they are, mercifully
perhaps, rather taken for granted than made evident to the reader. One would certainly rather
have one Doralise or Martésie than twenty Mandanes. However, again in the now expected manner,
the fight does not immediately come off. For "Philip Devil," in his usual headlong violence,
has provoked another duel with the Assyrian Prince Intaphernes,[183] and has been badly worsted
and wounded by his foe, who is unhurt. This puts everything off, and for a long time the main
story drops again (except as far as the struggles of Anaxaris between honour and love are depicted),
first to a great deal of miscellaneous talk about the quarrel of King and Prince, and then
to a regular Histoire of the King, Intaphernes, Atergatis, Princess Istrine, and the Princess
of Bithynia, Spithridates's sister and daughter of a very robustious and rather usurping King
Arsamones, who is a deadly enemy of Cyrus. The dead Queen Nitocris, and the passion for her
of a certain Gadates, Intaphernes's father, and also sometimes, if not always, called a "Prince,"
come in here. The story again introduces the luckless Spithridates himself, who is first, owing
to his likeness to Cyrus, persecuted by Thomyris, and then imprisoned by his father Arsamones
because he will not give up Araminta and marry Istrine, whom Nitocris had wanted to marry her
own son Philidaspes--a good instance of the extraordinary complications and contrarieties in
which the book indulges, and of which, if Dickens had been a more "literary" person, he might
have thought when he made the unfortunate Augustus Moddle observe that "everybody appears to
be somebody else's." Finally, the volume ends with an account of the leisurely progress of
Mandane and Cyrus to Ecbatana and Cyaxares, while the King of Assyria recovers as best he can.
But at certain "tombs" on the route evidence is found that the King of Pontus has been recently
in the land of the living, and is by no means disposed to give up Mandane.

The second volume of this part is one of the most eventless of all, and is mainly occupied
by a huge Histoire of Puranius, Prince of Phocaea, his love Cléonisbe, and others, oddly topped
by a passage of the main story, describing Cyrus's emancipation of the captive Jews. He is
for a time separated from the Princess.

The first pages of IX. i. are lively, though they are partly a récit. Prince Intaphernes tells
Cyrus all about Anaxaris (Aryante), and how by representing Cyrus as dead and the King of Assyria
in full pursuit of her, he has succeeded in carrying off Mandane; how also he has had the cunning,
by availing himself of the passion of another high officer, Andramite, for Doralise, to induce
him to join, in order that the maid of honour may accompany her mistress. Accordingly Cyrus,
the King of Assyria himself, and others start off in fresh pursuit; but the King has at first
the apparent luck. He overtakes the fugitives, and a sharp fight follows. But the guards whom
Cyrus has placed over the Princess, and who, in the belief of his death, have followed the
ravishers, are too much for Philidaspes, and he is fatally wounded; fulfilling the oracle,
as we anticipated long ago, by dying in Mandane's arms, and honoured with a sigh from her as
for her intended rescuer.

She herself, therefore, is in no better plight, for Aryante and Andramite continue the flight,
with her and her ladies, to a port on the Euxine, destroying, that they may not be followed,
all the shipping save one craft they select, and making for the northern shore. Here after
a time Aryante surrenders Mandane to his sister Thomyris, as he cannot well help doing, though
he knows her violent temper and her tigress-like passion for Cyrus, and though, also, he is
on rather less than brotherly terms with her, and has a party among the Massagetae who would
gladly see him king. Meanwhile the King of Pontus and Phraortes, Araminta's carrier-off, fight
and kill each other, and Araminta is given up--a loss for Mandane, for they have been companions
in quasi-captivity, and there is no longer any subject of jealousy between them.

Having thus created a sort of "deadlock" situation such as she loves, and in the interval,
while Cyrus is gathering forces to attack Thomyris, the author, as is her fashion likewise,
surrenders herself to the joys of digression. We have a great deal of retrospective history
of Aryante, and at last the famous Scythian philosopher, Anacharsis, is introduced, bringing
with him the rest of the Seven Ancient Sages--with whom we could dispense, but are not allowed
to do so. There is a Banquet of them all at the end of the first volume of the Part; and they
overflow into the second, telling stories about Pisistratus and others, and discussing "love
in the aib-stract," as frigidly as might be expected, on such points as, "Can you love the
same person twice?"[184] But the last half of this IX. ii. is fortunately business again. There
is much hard fighting with Thomyris, who on one occasion wishes to come to actual sword-play
with Cyrus, and of whom we have the liveliest ecphrasis, or set description, in the whole romance.

     [Sidenote: Thomyris on the warpath.]

     As for Thomyris, she was so beautiful that day that there
     was no one in the world save Mandane, who could have
     disputed a heart with her[185] without the risk of losing.
     This Princess was mounted on a fine black horse, trapped
     with gold; her dress was of cloth of gold, with green panels
     shot with a little carnation, and was of the shape of that
     of Pallas when she is represented as armed. The skirt was
     caught up on the hip with diamond clasps, and showed buskins
     of lions' muzzles made to correspond with the rest. Her
     head-dress was adorned with jewels, and a great number of
     feathers--carnation, white and green--hung over her
     beautiful fair tresses, while these, fluttering at the
     wind's will, mixed themselves with the plumes as she turned
     her head, and with their careless curls gave a marvellous
     lustre to her beauty. Besides, as her sleeves were turned
     up, and caught on the shoulder, while she held the bridle of
     her horse with one hand and her sword with the other, she
     showed the loveliest arms in the world. Anger had flushed
     her complexion, so that she was more beautiful than usual;
     and the joy of once more seeing Cyrus, and seeing him also
     in an action respectful towards her,[186] effaced the marks
     of her immediately preceding fury so completely that he
     could see nothing but what was amiable and charming.

Thomyris, however, is as treacherous and cruel as she is beautiful; and part of her reason
for seeming milder is that more of her troops may turn up and seize him.

On another occasion, owing to false generalship and disorderly advance on the part of the King
of Hyrcania, Cyrus is in no small danger, but he "makes good," though at a disastrous expense,
and with still greater dangers to meet. Thomyris's youthful son (for young and beautiful widow
as she is, she has been an early married wife and a mother), Spargapises, just of military
age, is captured in battle, suffers from his captors' ignorance what has been called "the indelible
insult of bonds," and though almost instantly released as soon as he is known, stabs himself
as disgraced. His body is sent to his mother with all sorts of honours, apologies, and regrets,
but she, partly out of natural feeling, partly from her excited state, and partly because her
mind is poisoned by false insinuations, sends, after transports of maternal and other rage,
a message to Cyrus to the effect that if he does not put himself unreservedly in her hands,
she will send him back Mandane dead, in the coffin of Spargapises. And so the last double-volume
but one ends with a suitable "fourth act" curtain, as we may perhaps call it.

The last of all, X. i. and ii., exhibits, in a remarkable degree, the general defects and the
particular merits and promise of this curious and (it cannot be too often repeated) epoch-making
book. In the latter respect more especially it shows the "laborious orient ivory sphere in
sphere" fashion in which the endless and, it may sometimes seem, aimless episodes, and digressions,
and insets are worked into the general theme. The defects will hardly startle, though they
may still annoy, any one who has worked through the whole. But if another wickedly contented
himself with a sketch of the story up to this point, and thought to make up by reading this
Part of two volumes carefully, he would probably feel these defects very strongly indeed. We--we
corrupt moderns--do expect a quickening up for the run-in. The usual beginning may seem to
the non-experts to promise this, or at least to give hopes of it; for though there is a vast
deal of talking--with Anacharsis as a go-between and Gélonide (a good confidante), endeavouring
to soften Thomyris, one can but expect it--the situation itself is at once difficult and exciting.
The position of Aryante in particular is really novel-dramatic. As he is in love with Mandane,
he of course does not want his sister to murder her. But inasmuch as he fears Cyrus's rivalry,
he does not want him to be near Mandane for two obvious reasons: first, the actual proximity,
and, secondly, the danger of Thomyris's temper getting the better (or worse) of her when both
the lovers are in her power. So he sends private messengers to the Persian Prince, begging
him not to surrender. Cyrus, however, still thinks of exchanging himself for Mandane. At this
point the neophyte's rage may be excited by being asked to plunge into the regular four-hundred
page Histoire of a certain Arpasie, who has two lovers--a Persian nobleman Hidaspe, and a supposed
Assyrian champion Méliante, who has come with reinforcements for Thomyris. And no doubt the
proportion is outrageous. But "wait and see," a phrase, it may be observed, which was not,
as some seem to think, invented by Mr. Asquith.

At last the business does begin again, and a tremendous battle takes place for the possession
of certain forests which lie between the two armies, and are at first held by the Scythians.
Cyrus, however, avails himself of the services of an engineer who has a secret of combustibles,
sets the forests ablaze, and forces his way through one or two open defiles, with little loss
to himself and very heavy loss to the enemy, whose main body, however, is still unbroken. This
affords a fine subject for one of the curious frontispieces known to all readers of seventeenth
century books. A further wait for reinforcements takes place, and the author basely avails
herself of it for a no doubt to herself very congenial (they actually called her in "precious"
circles by the name of the great poetess) and enormous Histoire of no less a person than Sappho,
which fills the last 250 pages of the first (nineteenth) volume and about as much of the second
(twentieth) or last. It has very little connection with the text, save that Sappho and Phaon
(for the self-precipitation at Leucas is treated as a fable) retire to the country of the Sauromatae,
to live there a happy, united, but unwed and purely Platonic (in the silly sense) existence.
The foolish side of the précieuse system comes out here, and the treatment confirms one's suspicion
that the author's classical knowledge was not very deep.

It does come to an end at last, however, and at last also we do get our "run-in," such as it
is. The chief excuse for its existence is that it brings in a certain Méréonte, who, like his
quasi-assonant Méliante, is to be useful later, and that the tame conclusion is excused by
a Sapphic theory--certainly not to be found in her too fragmentary works--that "possession
ruins love," a doctrine remembered and better put by Dryden in a speech of that very agreeable
Doralice, whose name, though not originally connected with this part of it, he also, as has
been noted, borrowed from the Grand Cyrus.

The actual finale begins (so to speak) antithetically with the last misfortune of the unlucky
Spithridates. His ill-starred likeness to Cyrus, assisted by a suit of armour which Cyrus has
given to him, make the enemy certain that he is Cyrus himself, and he is furiously assaulted
in an off-action, surrounded, and killed. His head is taken to Thomyris, who, herself deceived,
executes upon it the famous "blood-bath" of history or legend.[187] Unfortunately it is not
only in the Scythian army that the error spreads. Cyrus's troops are terrified and give way,
so that he is overpowered by numbers and captured. Fortunately he falls into the hands, not
of Thomyris's own people or of her savage allies, the Geloni (it is a Gelonian captain who
has acted as executioner in Spithridates's case), but of the supposed Assyrian leader Méliante,
who is an independent person, admires Cyrus, and, further persuaded by his friend Méréonte
(v. sup.), resolves to let him escape. The difficulties, however, are great, and the really
safest, though apparently the most dangerous way, seems to lie through the "Royal Tents" (the
nomad capital of Thomyris) themselves. Meanwhile, Aryante is making interest against his sister;
some of Cyrus's special friends, disguised as Massagetae, are trying to discover and rescue
him, and the Sauromatae are ready to desert the Scythian Queen. One of her transports of rage
brings on the catastrophe. She orders the Gelonian bravo to poniard Mandane, and he actually
stabs by mistake her maid-of-honour Hésionide--the least interesting one, luckily. Cyrus himself,
after escaping notice for a time, is identified, attacked, and nearly slain, when the whole
finishes in a general chaos of rebellion, arrival of friends, flight of Thomyris, and a hairbreadth
escape of Cyrus himself, which unluckily partakes more of the possible-improbable than of the
impossible-probable. The murders being done, the marriages would appear to have nothing to
delay them; but an evil habit, the origin of which is hard to trace, and which is not quite
extinct, still puts them off. Méliante has got to be rewarded with the hand of Arpasie, which
is accomplished after he has been discovered, in a manner not entirely romantic, to be the
son of the King of Hyrcania, and both his marriage and that of Cyrus are interfered with by
a supposed Law of the Medes and of certain minor Asiatic peoples, that a Prince or Princess
may not marry a foreigner. Fresh discoveries get rid of this in Méliante's case, while in that
of Cyrus a convenient Oracle declares that he who has conquered every kingdom in Asia cannot
be considered a foreigner in any. So at last the long chart is finished, Doralise retaining
her character as lightener of this rather solid entertainment by declaring that she cannot
say she loves her suitor, Prince Myrsilus, because every phrase that occurs to her is either
too strong or too weak. So we bless her, and stop the water channels--or, as the Limousin student
might have more excellently said, "claud the rives."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: General remarks on the book and its class.]

If the reader, having tolerated this long analysis (it is perhaps most probable that he will
not have done so), asks what game one pretends to have shown for so much expenditure or candle,
it is, no doubt, not easy to answer him without a fresh, though a lesser, trial of his patience.
You cannot "ticket" the Grand Cyrus, or any of its fellows, or the whole class, with any complimentary
short description, such as a certain school of ancient criticism loved, and corresponding to
our modern advertisement labels--"grateful and comforting," "necessary in every travelling
bag," and the like. They are, indeed, as I have endeavoured to indicate indirectly as well
as directly, by no means so destitute of interest of the ordinary kind as it has generally
been the fashion to think them. From the charge of inordinate length it is, of course, impossible
to clear the whole class, and Artamène more particularly.[188] Length "no more than reason"
is in some judgments a positive advantage in a novel; but this is more than reason. I believe
(the moi, I trust, is not utterly haïssable when it is necessary) that I myself am a rather
unusually rapid, without being a careless or unfaithful, reader; and that I have by nature
a very little of that faculty with which some much greater persons have been credited, of being
able to see at a glance whether anything on a page needs more than that glance or not, a faculty
not likely to have been rendered abortive (though also not, I hope, rendered morbid) by infinite
practice in reviewing. I do not say that, even now, I have read every word of this Artamène
as I should read every word of a sonnet of Shakespeare or a lyric of Shelley, even as I should
read every word of a page of Thackeray. I have even skimmed many pages. But I have never found,
even in a time of "retired leisure," that I could get through more than three, or at the very
utmost four, of the twenty volumes or half-volumes without a day or two of rest or other work
between. On the other hand, the book is not significantly piquant in detail to enable me to
read attentively fifty or a hundred pages and then lay it down.[189] You do, in a lazy sort
of way, want to know what happened--a tribute, no doubt, to Mlle. Madeleine--and so you have
to go on ploughing the furrow. But several weeks' collar-work[190] is a great deal to spend
on a single book of what is supposed to be pastime; and the pastime becomes occasionally one
of doubtful pleasure now and then. In fact, it is, as has been said, best to read in shifts.
Secondly, there may, no doubt, be charged a certain unreality about the whole: and a good many
other criticisms may be, as some indeed have been already, made without injustice.

The fact is that not only was the time not yet, but something which was very specially of the
time stood in the way of the other thing coming, despite the strong nisus in its favour excited
by various influences spoken of at the beginning of this chapter. This was the devotion--French
at almost all times, and specially French at this--to the type. There are some "desperate willins"
(as Sam Weller called the greengrocer at the swarry) who fail to see much more than types in
Racine, though there is something more in Corneille, and a very great deal more in Molière.
In the romances which charmed at home the audiences and spectators of these three great men's
work abroad, there is nothing, or next to nothing, else at all. The spirit of the Epistle to
the Pisos, which acted on the Tragedians in verse, which acted on Boileau in criticism and
poetry, was heavier on the novelist than on any of them. Take sufficient generosity, magnanimity,
adoration, bravery, courtesy, and so forth, associate the mixture with handsome flesh and royal
blood, clothe the body thus formed with brilliant scarfs and shining armour, put it on the
best horse that was ever foaled, or kneel it at the feet of the most beautiful princess that
ever existed, and you have Cyrus. For the princess herself take beauty, dignity, modesty, graciousness,
etc., quant. suff., clothe them in garments again magnificent, and submit the total to extreme
inconveniences, some dangers, and an immense amount of involuntary travelling, but nothing
"irreparable," and you have Mandane. For the rest, with the rare and slight exceptions mentioned,
they flit like shadows ticketed with more or less beautiful names. Even Philidaspes, the most
prominent male character after the hero by far, is, whether he be "in cog" as that personage
or "out of cog" as Prince and King of Assyria, merely a petulant hero--a sort of cheap Achilles,
with no idiosyncrasy at all. It is the fault, and in a way the very great fault, of all the
kind: and there is nothing more to do with it but to admit it and look for something to set
against it.

How great a thing the inception (to use a favourite word of the present day, though it be no
favourite of the writer's) of the "psychological" treatment of Love[191] was may, of course,
be variously estimated. The good conceit of itself in which that day so innocently and amusingly
indulges will have it, indeed, that the twentieth century has invented this among other varieties
of the great and venerable art of extracting nourishment from eggs. "We have," somebody wrote
not long ago--the exact words may not be given, but the sense is guaranteed--"perceived that
Love is not merely a sentiment, an appetite, or a passion, but a great means of intellectual
development." Of course Solomon did not know this, nor Sappho, nor Catullus, nor the fashioners
of those "sentiments" of the Middle Ages which brought about the half-fabulous Courts of Love
itself, nor Chaucer, nor Spenser, nor Shakespeare, nor Donne. It was reserved for--but one
never names contemporaries except honoris causâ.

It is--an "of course" of another kind--undeniable that the fashion of love-philosophy which
supplies so large a part of the "yarn" of Madeleine de Scudéry's endless rope or web is not
our fashion. But it is, in a way, a new variety of yarn as compared with anything used before
in prose, even in the Greek romances[192] and the Amadis group (nay, even in the Astrée itself).
Among other things, it connects itself more with the actual society, manners, fashions of its
day than had ever been the case before, and this is the only interesting side of the "key"
part of it. This was the way that they did to some extent talk and act then, though, to be
sure, they also talked and acted very differently. It is all very well to say that the Hôtel
de Rambouillet is a sort of literary-historical fiction, and the Précieuses Ridicules a delightful
farce. The fiction was not wholly a fiction, and the farce was very much more than a farce--would
have been, indeed, not a farce at all if it had not satirised a fact.

It is, however, in relation to the general history and development of the novel, and therefore
in equally important relation to the present History, that the importance of the Grand Cyrus,
or rather of the class of which it was by far the most popular and noteworthy member, is most
remarkable. Indeed this importance can hardly be exaggerated, and is much more likely to be--indeed
has nearly always been--undervalued. Even the jejune and partial analysis which has been given
must have shown how many of the elements of the modern novel are here--sometimes, as it were,
"in solution," sometimes actually crystallised. For any one who demands plot there is one--of
such gigantic dimensions, indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to be singularly
well articulated and put together when it is once grasped. Huge as it is, it is not in the
least formless, and, as has been several times pointed out, hardly the most (as it may at first
appear) wanton and unpardonable episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection with
and "orientation" towards the end. The contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle-fashion,
the "overthwart and endlong" conduct, of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian and
Arthurian[193] to the Amadis type, is of the most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense, is terribly wanting
still; though description is a little general and wants more "streaks in the tulip"; and though
conversation is formal and stilted, there is evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly
in the second and third cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically, in accordance
with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without some eye to the actual habits, manners,
demands of the time--things which again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could
hardly be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and very considerable seeds of
promise for the future, there are, of course, serious faults or defects--defaults which need,
however, less insistence, because they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and
have been already admitted. The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all.
It has already been said that the most interesting point about it is the opportunity of discovering
how it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost the furthest possible, development of
a characteristic which had been more or less observable throughout the progress of romance.
But it may be added that the law of supply and demand helped; for people evidently were not
in the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book "on hand" has only lately,
if it has actually, died out.[194] Now such a "book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists, as
far as my knowledge goes, in no Western literature, unless you count collections of letters,
which is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint-Simon's, which do not appeal to quite the same
class of readers.

A far more serious default or defect--not exactly blameworthy, because the time was not yet,
but certainly to be taken account of--is the almost utter want of character just referred to.
From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are
necessary to character, do not constitute it. Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very
benevolent criticism, in such a personage as Martésie with her shrewdness, her maid-of-honour
familiarity with the ways and manners of courtly human beings, and that very pardonable, indeed
agreeable, tendency, which has been noticed or imagined, to flirt in respectful fashion with
Cyrus, while carrying on more regular business with Feraulas. But it is little more than a
suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not even that, but an imagination
merely. And the same observation may apply to her "second string," Doralise. No others of the
women have any character at all, and we have already spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired, could not, and did not,
fail to have their effect. Nobody--we shall see this more in detail in the next chapter--can
fail to perceive that the Princesse de Clèves itself is, from one point of view, only a histoire
of the Grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous matrix of other matter, polished, charged
with a great addition of internal fire of character and passion, and left to take its chance
alone and unencumbered. Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle de
Scudéry can doubt the influence of the French book--a century old as it was--on the "father
of the English novel." Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy, an influence
exerted on the whole future course of the kind, and it is as exercising such an influence that
we have given to the Great Cyrus so great a space.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The other Scudéry romances--Ibrahim.]

After the exhaustive account given of Artamène, it is probably not necessary to apologise for
dealing with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry's novel work, and with that of her comrades in the
Heroic romance, at no very great length. Ibrahim ou L'Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented
as showing more endeavour, if not exactly at "local colour," at technical accuracy, than the
rest. It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud of being the only
Western nation treated on something like equal terms by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys
(possibly Georges, whose work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge. "Sandjak" (or "Sanjiac"),
not for a district but for its governor, is a little unlucky perhaps; but "Aderbion" is much
nearer "Azerbaijan" than one generally expects in such cases from French writers of the seventeenth
or even of other centuries. The Oriental character of the story, however, is but partial. The
Illustrious Pasha himself, though First Vizir and "victorious" general of Soliman the Second,
is not a Turk at all, but a "Justinian" or Giustiniani of Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is
a Princess of Monaco, and who at the end, after necessary dangers,[195] retires with her to
that Principality, with a punctilious explanation from the author about the Grimaldis. The
scene is partly there and at Genoa--the best Genoese families, including the Dorias, appearing--partly
at Constantinople: and the business at the latter place is largely concerned with the intrigues,
jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane, who is drawn much more (one regrets to say) as history
paints her than as the agreeable creature of Marmontel's subsequent fancy. The book is a mere
cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus, running only to four volumes and some two thousand
pages. But though smaller, it is much "stodgier." The Histoires break out at once with the
story of a certain Alibech--much more proper for the young person than that connected with
the same name by Boccaccio,--and those who have acquired some knowledge of Mlle. Madeleine's
ways will know what it means when, adopting the improper but defensible practice of "looking
at the end," they find that not merely "Justinian" and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite,
a Doria and a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on the same day, while a
"French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable but celibate constancy to each other; they will
know, that is to say, that in the course of the book all these will have been duly "historiated."
To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little of the parts of Martésie
and Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in.

There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which is worth quotation and
brief comment, because it is a text for the whole management and system of these novels, and
accounts for much in their successors almost to the present day. Emilie is telling the Histoire
of Isabelle, and excuses herself for not beginning at the beginning: "Puisque je sais que vous
n'ignorez pas l'amour du Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de Julie, la trahison
de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria [this is another Doria], la mort de cet amant
infortuné, et ensuite celle de Julie." In other words, all these things have been the subject
of previous histories or of the main text. And so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least
excused, that procedure of Richardson's which involved the telling of the conversation of an
average dinner-party in something like a small volume. But the "Heroic" method would have made
it necessary to tell the previous experiences of the lady you took down to dinner, and the
man that you talked to afterwards, while, if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas,
it would have justified a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both, and the butcher and fishmonger
who supplied the feast. The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by
degrees it dropped off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar habit of giving the subsequent
history of personages introduced--a thing which, though Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody's
insistence on information about the later history of Guse Gibbie,[196] by no means ceased with
his time. Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions of ordinary
life. If "tout passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth: and in fiction,
as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve as well as arise without too much fuss being made
about them.[197]

[Sidenote: Almahide.]

Almahide is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim; but the English reader must disabuse himself
of the idea (if he entertains it) that he will find much of the original of The Conquest of
Granada. The book does, indeed, open like the play, with the faction-fights of Abencerrages
and Zegrys, and it ends with Boabdelin's jealousy of his wife Almahide, while a few of the
other names in both are identical. But Almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the
character of Almanzor, and Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth part of the copious
matter of the French novel, the early history of Almahide, the usual immense digressions and
side-histoires, the descriptions (which, as in Ibrahim, play, I think, a larger relative part
than in the Cyrus), and what not.

[Sidenote: Clélie.]

[Sidenote: Perhaps the liveliest of the set.]

Copious as these are, however, in both books, they do not fill them out to anything like the
length of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival in size, and perhaps superior in attraction, the
Clélie. I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this "perhaps" when
it is compared with the very much larger space given to the earlier novel. Le Grand Cyrus has
been estated too firmly, as the type and representative of the whole class, to be dislodged,
and there is, as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition from it in Clélie itself.
But this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally or nearly as big,
less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier movement in it, and at the same time this is
contrasted with a set or series of interludes of love-casuistry, which are better, I think,
than anything of the kind in the Cyrus.[198] The most famous feature of these is, of course,
the well-known but constantly misnamed "Carte de Tendre" ("Map of the Country of Tenderness"--not
of "Tenderness in the aibstract," as du Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes
Tenderness comes quite early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective attractions
of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and Anti-code of lovers[199] occurs as "The
Love-Morality of Tiramus," with a set of (not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate
of an almost mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and melancholy mistresses.
Moreover, there is a rather remarkable "Vision of Poets"--past, present, and to come--which
should be taken in connection with the appearance, as an actual personage, of Anacreon. All
this, taken in conjunction with the "business" of the story, helps to give it the superior
liveliness with which it has, rightly or wrongly, been credited here.

[Sidenote: Rough outline of it.]

Of that business itself a complete account cannot, for reasons given more than once, be attempted;
though anybody who wants such a thing, without going to the book itself, may find it in the
places also above mentioned. There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake
person as (v. inf.) in La Calprenède's chief books. Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern
historical student will pass "real" without sniffing, or even if he will not. Her lover, "Aronce,"
although he probably may be a little disguised from the English reader by his spelling, is
so palpably the again real "Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity
can have been so long concealed in French (where the pronunciations would be practically the
same) from the readers of the story. The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that
of the Cyrus as some to be mentioned later, but still pretty close to the elder overture. "The
illustrious Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to be married, when there is
a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance of the heroine. She has, of course, been
carried off; one might say, without flippancy, of any heroine of Madeleine de Scudéry's not
only that she was, as in a famous and already quoted saying, "very liable to be carried off,"
but that it was not in nature that she should not be carried off as early and as often as possible.
And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius--our own Horatius Cocles--the one who kept
the bridge in some of the best known of English verses, not he who provoked, from the sister
whom he murdered, the greatest speech in all French tragedy before, and perhaps not merely
before, Victor Hugo. Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be, an
infinitely better fellow and of a better fate. Of course the end knits straight on to the beginning.
Clélie and Aronce are united without an earthquake, and Porsena, with obliging gallantry, resigns
the crown of Clusium (from which he has himself long been kept out by a "Mezentius," who will
hardly work in with Virgil's), not to Aronce, but to Clélie herself. The enormous interval
between (the book is practically as long as the Cyrus) is occupied by the same, or (v. sup.)
nearly the same tissue of delays, digressions, and other maze-like devices for setting you
off on a new quest when you seem to be quite close to the goal. A large part of the scene is
in Carthage, where, reversing the process in regard to Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make
their appearance in a very "mixedly" historical fashion. A Prince of Numidia (who had heard
of Numidia in Tarquin's days?) fights a lively water-combat with Horatius actually as he is
carrying Clélie off, over the Lake of Thrasymene. All the stock legends of the Porsena siege
and others are duly brought in: and the atrocious Sextus, not contented with his sin against
Lucrèce, tries to carry off Clélie likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented. Otherwise
the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love-novels (v. sup. pp. 157-162)
had distinguished these abductions might possibly have been broken through. These outlines
might be expanded (and the process would not be very painful to me) into an abstract quite
as long as that of Cyrus; but "It Cannot Be."

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must be allowed against Clélie.
That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements--which has shown itself so
often, and which practically distinguishes the very great novelists from those not so great
by its absence or presence--is obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal it
from mere dippers, unless they be experts. The similarity of the openings is, comparatively
speaking, a usual thing. It should not happen, and does not in really great writers; but it
is tempting, and is to some extent excused by the brocard about le premier pas. It is so nice
to put yourself in front of your beginning--to have made sure of it! But this charity will
hardly extend to such a thing as the repetition of Cyrus's foolish promise to fight Philidaspes
before he marries Mandane in the case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie. The way in which Aronce
is kept an "unknown" for some time, and that in which his actual relationship to Porsena is
treated, have also too much of the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a pirate which
occurs is not quite so absurd as that ready-made series of encores which was described above
(pp. 181-2), there is something a little like it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately
reduce the enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends who are in the pirates'
power from being butchered or flung overboard. "Sapho's" invention, though by no means sterile,
was evidently somewhat indiscriminate, and she would seem to have thought it rather a pity
that a good thing should be used only once.

Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated. If I were sent to twelve months' imprisonment
of a mild description, and allowed to choose a library, I should include in it, from the heroic
or semi-heroic division, Clélie, La Calprenède's two chief books, Gomberville's Polexandre,
and Gombauld's Endimion (this partly for the pictures), with, as a matter of course, the Astrée,
and a choice of one other. By reading slowly and "savouring" the process, I should imagine
that, with one's memories of other things, they might be able to last for a year. And it would
be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain. In anticipation, let us see something of
these others now.

[Sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative cheerfulness.]

It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the common opinion of literary history in giving
Madeleine de Scudéry the place of honour, and the largest as well as the foremost share in
our account of this curious stage in the history of the novel. But if, to alter slightly a
famous quotation, I might "give a short hint to an impartial reader," I should very strongly
advise him to begin his studies (or at least his enjoyment) thereof, not with "Sapho," but
with Gauthier de Costes, Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself according to Tallemant almost the
proverbial "Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer; a favourite
of Mme. de Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her preferences, except when she preferred her
very disagreeable daughter to her very agreeable son; and more than any one else the inventor,
or at least perfecter, of the hectoring heroic style which we associate with Dryden's plays.
Indeed the Artaban of Cléopatre is much more the original of Almanzor and Drawcansir than anything
in Madeleine, though Almahide was actually the source of Dryden's story, or heroine. Besides
this, though La Calprenède has rather less of the intricate-impeach character than his she-rival,
there is much more bustle and "go" in him; he has, though his books are proper enough, much
less fear of dealing with "the kissing and that sort of thing," as it was once discreetly put;
and he is sometimes positively exciting in his imbroglios, as when the beautiful Amazon princess
Menalippe fights a real duel on horseback with Prince, afterwards King, Alcamenes of Scythia,
under the impression that he has killed a certain Alcimedon, who was her lover; discovers,
after no small time and considerable damage, that he is Alcimedon himself; and, like a sensible
and agreeable girl, embraces him heartily in the sight of men and angels.

[Sidenote: Cléopatre--the Cypassis and Arminius episode.]

This is among the numerous divertissements of Cléopatre (not the earliest, but perhaps the
chief of its author's novels[200]), the heroine of which is not

    The laughing queen that caught the world's great hands

herself, but her daughter by Antony, who historically married Juba of Mauretania, and is here
courted by him under the name of Coriolanus, while he is in disgrace with Augustus. La Calprenède
(all these romancers are merciful men and women to the historically unlucky, and cruel only,
or for the most part, to fictitious characters) saves her half-brother Caesarion from his actual
death, and, after the due thousands of pages, unites him happily to Queen Candace of Æthiopia.
There is the same odd muddle (which made a not unintelligent Jesuit label this class of books
"historia mixta") with many other persons. Perhaps the most curious of all episodes of this
kind is the use made of Ovid's "fusca Cypassis." If Mrs. Grundy could be supposed ever to have
read the Amores, the mere sight of the name of that dusky handmaid--to whom Ovid behaved, by
his own confession, in such an exceedingly shabby as well as improper fashion--would make her
shudder, if not shriek. But La Calprenède's Cypassis, though actually a maid of honour to Julia,
as her original was a handmaid to Corinna, is of unblemished morality, flirted with certainly
by Ovid, but really a German princess, Ismenia, in disguise, and beloved by, betrothed to,
and in the end united with no less a compatriot than Arminius. This union gives also an illustration
of the ingenious fashion in which these writers reconcile and yet omit. La Calprenède, as we
have seen, does not give Arminius's wife her usual name of Thusnelda, but, to obviate a complaint
from readers who have heard of Varus, he invents a protest on "Herman sla lerman" part against
that general, who has trepanned him into captivity and gladiatorship, and makes him warn Augustus
that he will be true to the Romans unless Varus is sent into his country.[201]

[Sidenote: The book generally.]

This episode is, in many ways, so curious and characteristic, that it seemed worth while to
dwell on it for a little; but the account itself must have shown how impossible it is to repeat
the process of general abstract. There are, I think, in the book (which took twelve years to
publish and fills as many volumes in French, while the English translation is an immense folio
of nearly a thousand pages in double column, also entitled Hymen's Praeludia[202]) fewer separate
Histoires, though there are a good many, than in the Cyrus, but the intertwined love-plots
are almost more complicated. For instance, the Herod-and-Mariamne tragedy is brought in with
a strictly "proper" lover, Tiridates, whom Salome uses to provoke Herod's patience, and who
has, at the very opening of the book, proved himself both a natural philosopher of no mean
order by seeing a fire at sea, and "judging with much likelihood that it comes from a ship,"
and a brave fellow by rescuing from the billows no less a person than the above-mentioned Queen
Candace. From her, however, he exacts immediate, and, as some moderns might think, excessive,
payment by making her listen to his own Histoire.

Not the least attractive part of Cléopatre to some people will be that very "Phébus," or amatory
conceit, which made the next ages scorn it. When one of the numerous "unknowns" of both sexes
(in this case a girl) is discovered (rather prettily) lying on a river bank and playing with
the surface of the water, "the earth which sustained this fair body seemed to produce new grass
to receive her more agreeably"--a phrase which would have shocked good Bishop Vida many years
before, as much as it would have provoked the greater scorn of Mr. Addison about as many after.
There are many "ecphrases" or set descriptions of this kind, and they show a good deal of stock
convention. For instance, the wind is always "most discreetly, most discreetly" ready, as indeed
it was in Mlle. de Scudéry's own chaste stories, to blow up sleeves or skirts a little, and
achieve the distraction of the beholders by what it reveals. But on the whole, as was hinted
above, Gauthier de Costes de La Calprenède is the most natural creature of the heroic band.

[Sidenote: Cassandre.]

His earlier Cassandre is not much inferior to Cléopatre, and has a little more eccentricity
about it. The author begins his Second Part by making the ghost of Cassandra herself (who is
not the Trojan Cassandra at all) address a certain Calista, whom she mildly accuses of "dragging
her from her grave two thousand years after date," adding, as a boast of his own in a Preface,
that the very name "Cassandre" has never occurred in the First Part--a huge cantle of the work.
The fact is that it is an alias for Statira, the daughter of Darius and wife of Alexander,
and is kept by her during the whole of her later married life with her lover Oroondates, King
of Scythia, who has vainly wooed her in early days before her union with the great Emathian
conqueror. Here, again, the mere student of "unmixed" history may start up and say, "Why! this
Statira, who was also called Barsine [an independent personage here] was murdered by Roxana
after Alexander's death!" But, as was also said, these romancers exercise the privilege of
mercy freely; and though La Calprenède's Roxana is naughty enough for anything (she makes,
of course, the most shameless love to Oroondates), she is not allowed to kill her rival, who
is made happy, after another series of endless adventures of her own, her lover's, and other
people's. The book opens with a lively interest to students of the English novel; for the famous
two cavaliers of G. P. R. James appear, though they are not actually riding at the moment,
but have been, and, after resting, see two others in mortal combat. Throughout there is any
amount of good fighting, as, for the matter of that, there is in Cléopatre also; and there
is less duplication of detail here than in some other respects, for La Calprenède is rather
apt to repeat his characters and situations. For instance, the fight between Lysimachus and
Thalestris (La Calprenède is fond of Amazons), though not in the details, is of course in the
idea a replica of that between Alcamenes and Menalippe in Cléopatre; and names recur freely.
Moreover, in the less famous story, the whole situation of hero and heroine is exactly duplicated
in respect of the above-mentioned Lysimachus and Parisatis, Cassandra's younger sister, who
is made to marry Hephaestion at first, and only awarded, in the same fashion as her elder sister,
at last to her true lover.

By the way, the already-mentioned "harmonising" is in few places more oddly shown than by the
remark that Plutarch's error in representing Statira as killed was due to the fact that he
did not recognise her under her later name of Cassandra--a piece of Gascon half-naïveté, half-jest
which Mlle. de Scudéry's Norman shrewdness[203] would hardly have allowed. There is also much
more of the supernatural in these books than in hers, and the characters are much less prim.
Roxana, who, of course, is meant to be naughty, actually sends a bracelet of her hair to Oroondates!
which, however, that faithful lover of another instantly returns.

[Sidenote: Faramond.]

La Calprenède's third novel, Faramond, is unfinished as his work, and the continuation seems
to have more than one claimant to its authorship. If the "eminent hand" was one Vaumorière,
who independently accomplished a minor "heroic" in Le Grand Scipion, he was not likely to infuse
much fire into the ashes of his predecessor. As it stands in La Calprenède's own part, Faramond
is a much duller book than Cassandre or Cléopatre. It must, of course, be remembered that,
though patriotism has again and again prompted the French to attack these misty Merovingian
times (the Astrée itself deals with them in the liberal fashion in which it deals with everything),
the result has rarely, if ever, been a success. Indeed I can hardly think of any one--except
our own "Twin Brethren" in Thierry and Theodoret--who has made anything good out of French
history before Charlemagne.[204] The reader, therefore, unless he be a very thorough and conscientious
student, had better let Faramond alone; but its elder sisters are much pleasanter company.
Indeed the impolite thought will occur that it is much more like the Scudéry novels, part of
which it succeeded, and may possibly have been the result--not by any means the only one in
literature--of an unlucky attempt to beat a rival by copying him or her.

[Sidenote: Gomberville--La Caritée.]

If any one, seeking acquaintance with the works of Marin le Roy, Seigneur de Gomberville, begins
at the beginning with his earliest work, and one of the earliest of the whole class, La Caritée
(not "Caritie," as in some reference books), he may not be greatly appetised by the addition
to the title, "contenant, sous des temps, des personnes, et des noms supposés, plusieurs rares
et véritables histoires de notre temps." For this is a proclamation, as Urfé had not proclaimed
it,[205] of the wearisome "key" system, which, though undoubtedly it has had its partisans
at all times, is loathsome as well as wearisome to true lovers of true literature. To such
persons every lovable heroine of romance is, more or less, suggestive of more or fewer women
of history, other romance, or experience; every hero, more or less, though to a smaller extent,
recognisable or realisable in the same way; and every event, one in which such readers have
been, might have been, or would have liked to be engaged themselves; but they do not care the
scrape of a match whether the author originally intended her for the Princess of Kennaquhair
or for Polly Jones, him and it for corresponding realities. Nor is the sequel particularly
ravishing, though it is dedicated to "all fair and virtuous shepherdesses, all generous and
perfect shepherds." Perhaps it is because one is not a generous and perfect shepherd that one
finds the "Great Pan is Dead" story less impressive in Gomberville's prose than in Milton's
verse at no distant period; is not much refreshed by getting to Rome about the death of Germanicus,
and hearing a great deal about his life; or later still by Egyptian bergeries--things in which
somehow one does not see a concatenation accordingly; and is not consoled by having the Phoenix
business done--oh! so differently from the fashion of Shakespeare or even of Darley. And when
it finishes with a solemn function for the rise of the Nile, the least exclusively modern of
readers may prefer Moore or Gautier.

[Sidenote: Polexandre.]

But if any one, deeming not unjustly that he had drunk enough of Caritée, were to conclude
that he would drink no more of any of the waters of Gomberville, he would make a mistake. Cythérée[1]
I cannot yet myself judge of, except at second-hand; but the first part of Polexandre, if not
also the continuation, Le Jeune Alcidiane,[206] may be very well spoken of. It, that is to
say the first part of it, was translated into English by no less a person than William Browne,
just at the close of his life; and, perhaps for this reason, the British Museum does not contain
the French original; but those who cannot attain to this lose the less, because the substance
of the book is the principal thing. This makes it one of the liveliest of the whole group,
and one does not feel it an idle vaunt when at the end the author observes cheerfully of his
at last united hero and heroine, "Since we have so long enjoyed them, let us have so much justice
as to think it fitting now that they should likewise enjoy each other." Yet the unresting and
unerring spirit of criticism may observe that even here the verbosity which is the fault of
the whole division makes its appearance. For why not suppress most of the words after "them,"
and merely add, "let them now enjoy each other"?

The book is, in fact, rather like a modernised "number" of the Amadis series,[207], and the
author has had the will and the audacity to exchange the stale old Greeks and Romans--not the
real Greeks, who can never be stale, or the real Romans, who can stand a good deal of staling,
but the conventional classics--as well as the impossible shadows of the Dark Ages, for Lepanto
and the Western Main, Turks and Spaniards and Mexicans, and a Prince of Scotland. Here also
we find in the hero something more like Almanzor than Artamène, if not than Artaban: and of
the whole one may say vulgarly that "the pot boils." Now, with the usual Heroic it too often
fails to attain even a gentle simmer.

[Sidenote: Camus--Palombe, etc.]

Jean Camus [de Pontcarré?],[208] Bishop of Belley and of Arras--friend of St. Francis of Sales
and of Honoré d'Urfé; author of many "Christian" romances to counteract the bad effects of
the others, of a famous Esprit de Saint François de S., and of a very great number of miscellaneous
works,--seems to have been a rather remarkable person, and, with less power and more eccentricity,
a sort of Fénelon of the first half of the century. His best known novel, Palombe, stands practically
alone in its group as having had the honour of a modern reprint in the middle of the nineteenth
century.[209] The title-giver is a female, not a male, human dove, and of course a married
one. Camus was a divine of views which one does not call "liberal," because the word has been
almost more sullied by ignoble use in this connection than in any other--but unconventional
and independent; and he provoked great wrath among his brethren by reflecting on the abuses
of the conventual system. Palombe appears to be not uninteresting, but after all it is but
one of those parasitic exercises which have rarely been great except in the hands of very great
genius. Historically, perhaps, the much less famous Evènemens Singuliers (2 vols., 1628) are
more important, though they cannot be said to be very amusing. For (to the surprise, perhaps,
of a reader who comes to the book without knowing anything about it) it is composed of pure
Marmontel-and-Miss-Edgeworth Moral Tales about L'Ami Desloyal, La Prudente Mère, L'Amour et
la Mort, L'Imprécation Maternelle, and the like. Of course, as one would expect from the time,
and the profession of the author, the meal of the morality is a little above the malt of the
tale; but the very titles are "germinal."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Hédelin d'Aubignac--Macarise.]

François Hédelin, Abbé d'Aubignac, is one of those unfortunate but rarely quite guiltless persons
who live in literary history much more by the fact of their having attacked or lectured greater
men than themselves, and by witticisms directed against them, than by their own actual work,
which is sometimes not wholly contemptible. He concerns us here only as the author of a philosophical-heroic
romance, rather agreeably entitled Macarise ou La Reine des Iles Fortunées, where the bland
naïveté of the pedantry would almost disarm the present members of that Critical Regiment,
of which the Abbé, in his turn, was not so much a chaplain as a most combatant officer. The
very title goes on to neutralise its attractiveness by explaining--with that benignant condescension
which is natural to at least some of its author's class--that it "contains the Moral Philosophy
of the Stoics under the veil of several agreeable adventures in the form of a Romance"; and
that we may not forget this, various side-notes refer to passages in an Abrégé of that philosophy.
The net is thus quite frankly set in the sight of the bird, and if he chooses to walk into
it, he has only himself to blame. The opening is a fine example of that plunge into the middle
of things which Hédelin had learnt from his classical masters to think proper: "Les cruels
persécuteurs d'Arianax l'ayant réduit à la nécessité de se précipiter[210] dans les eaux de
la Sennatèle avec son frère Dinazel...." The fact that the presupposed gentle reader knows
nothing of the persons or the places mentioned is supposed to arouse in him an inextinguishable
desire to find out. That he should be at once gratified is, of course, unthinkable. In fact
his attention will soon be diverted from Arianax and Dinazel and the banks of the Sennatèle
altogether by the very tragical adventures of a certain Cléarte. He, with a company of friends,
visits the country of a tyrant, who is accustomed to welcome strangers and heap them with benefits,
till a time comes (the allegory is something obvious) when he demands it all back, with their
lives, through a cruel minister (again something "speakingly" named) "Thanate." The head of
this company, Cléarte, on receiving the sentence, talks Stoicism for many pages, and when he
is exhausted, somebody else takes up the running in such a fascinating manner that it "seemed
as if he had only to go on talking to make the victims immortal!" But the atrocious Thanate
cuts, at the same moment, the thread of the discourse and the throat of Cléarte--who is, however,
transported to the dominions of Macarise,--and histoires and "ecphrases" and interspersions
of verse follow as usual. But the Abbé is nowise infirm of purpose; and the book ends with
the strangest mixture of love-letters and not very short discourses on the various schools
of philosophy, together with a Glossary or Onomasticon interpreting the proper names which
have been used after the following fashion: "Alcarinte. La Crainte, du mot français par anagramme
sans aucun changement," though how you can have an anagram without a change is not explained.

[Sidenote: Gombauld--Endimion.]

Perhaps one may class, if, indeed, classification is necessary, with the religious romances
of Camus and the philosophical romance of Hédelin d'Aubignac, the earlier allegorical ones
of the poet Gombauld, Endimion and Amaranthe. The latter I have not yet seen. Endimion is rather
interesting; there was an early English translation of it; and I have always been of those
who believe that Keats, somehow or other, was more directly acquainted with seventeenth-century
literature than has generally been allowed.[211] The wanderings of the hero are as different
as possible in detail; but the fact that there are wanderings at all is remarkable, and there
are other coincidences with Keats and differences from any classical form, which it might be
out of place to dwell on here. Endymion is waked from his Latmian sleep by the infernal clatter
of the dwellers at the base of the mountain, who use all the loudest instruments they possess
to dispel an eclipse of the moon: and is discovered by his friend Pyzandre, to whom he tells
the vicissitudes of his love and sleep. The early revealings of herself by Diana are told with
considerable grace, and the whole, which is not too long, is readable. But there are many of
the naïvetés and awkwardnesses of expression which attracted to the writers of this time the
scorn of Boileau and others down to La Harpe. The Dedication to the Queen may perhaps be excused
for asserting, in its first words, that as Endymion was put to sleep by the Moon, so he has
been reawakened by the Sun,[212] i.e. her Majesty. But a Nemesis of this Phébus follows. For,
later, it is laid down that "La Lune doit toujours sa lumière au Soleil." From which it will
follow that Diana owed her splendour to Anne of Austria, or was it Marie de Medicis?[213] It
was fortunate for Gombauld that he did not live under the older dispensation. Artemis was not
a forgiving goddess like Aphrodite.

Again, when Diana has disappeared after one of her graciousnesses, her lover makes the following
reflection--that the gods apparently can depart sans être en peine de porter nécessairement
les pieds l'un devant l'autre--an observation proper enough in burlesque, for the idea of a
divine goose-step or marking time, instead of the incessus, is ludicrous enough. But there
is not the slightest sign of humour anywhere in the book. Yet, again, this is a thing one would
rather not have said, "Diane cessant de m'être favorable, Ismène[214] me pouvait tenir lieu
de Déesse." Now it is sadly true that the human race does occasionally entertain, and act upon,
reflections of this kind: and persons like Mr. Thomas Moore and Gombauld's own younger contemporary,
Sir John Suckling, have put the idea into light and lively verse. But you do not expect it
in a serious romance.

Nevertheless it may be repeated that Endimion is one of the most readable of the two classes
of books--the smaller sentimental and the longer heroic--between which it stands in scope and
character. The author's practice in the "other harmony" makes the obligatory verse-insertions
rather less clumsy than usual; and it may be permitted to add that the illustrations of the
original edition, which are unusually numerous and elaborate, are also rather unusually effective.
"Peggy's face" is too often as "wretched" as Thackeray confessed his own attempts were; but
the compositions are not, as such, despicable--even in the case of the immortal and immortalising
kiss-scene itself. The "delicious event," to quote the same author in another passage, is not
actually coming off--but it is very near. But it was perhaps a pity that either Gombauld or
Keats ever waked Endymion.

[Sidenote: Mme. de Villedieu.]

The most recent book[215] but one about Mme. de Villedieu contains (and, oddly enough, confesses
itself to contain) very little about her novels, which the plain man might have thought the
only reason for writing about her at all. It tells (partly after Tallemant) the little that
is known about her (adding a great deal more about other people, things, and places, and a
vast amount of conjecture), and not only takes the very dubious "letters" published by herself
for gospel, but attributes to her, on the slightest evidence, if any, the anonymous Mémoires
sur la Vie de Henriette Sylvie de Molière, and, what is more, accepts them as autobiographic;
quotes a good deal of her very valueless verse and that of others, and relates the whole in
a most marvellous style, the smallest and most modest effervescences of which are things like
this: "La religion arrose son âme d'une eau parfumée, et les fleurs noirs du répentir éclosent"
or "Soixante ans pesaient sur son crâne ennuagé d'une perruque."[216] A good bibliography of
the actual work, and not a little useful information about books and MS. relating to the period,
may reconcile one class of readers to it, and a great deal of scandal another; but as far as
the subject of this history goes no one will be much wiser when he closes the volume than he
was when he opened it.

The novelist-heroine's actual name was Marie Catherine Hortense des Jardins, and she never
was really Mme. de Villedieu at all, though there was a real M. de Villedieu whom she loved,
went through a marriage ceremony and lived with, left, according to some, or was left by, according
to others. But he was already married, and this marriage was never dissolved. Very late in
life she seems actually to have married a Marquis de Chaste, who died soon. But most of the
time was spent in rather scandalous adventures, wherein Fouquet's friend Gourville, the minister
Lyonne, and others figure. In fact she seems to have been a counterpart as well as a contemporary
of our own Afra, though she never came near Mrs. Behn in poetry or perhaps in fiction. Her
first novel, Alcidamie, not to be confounded with the earlier Alcidiane, was a scarcely concealed
utilising of the famous scandal about Tancrède de Rohan (Mlle. des Jardins' mother had been
a dependant on the Rohan family, and she herself was much befriended by that formidable and
sombre-fated enchantress, Mme. de Montbazon). In fact, common as is the real or imputed "key"-interest
in these romances from the Astrée onwards, none seems to have borrowed more from at least gossip
than this. Her later performances, Les Annales Galantes de la Grèce (said to be very rare),
Carmente, Les Amours des Grands Hommes, Les Désordres de l'Amour, and some smaller pieces,
all rely more or less on this or that kind of scandal. Collections appeared three or four times
in the earlier eighteenth century.

[Sidenote: Le Grand Alcandre Frustré.]

Since M. Magne wrote (and it is fair to say that the main purpose of his book was frankly avowed
by its appearance as a member of a series entitled Femmes Galantes), a somewhat more sober
account, definitely devoted in part to the novels, has appeared.[217] But even this is not
exhaustive from our point of view. The collected editions (of which that of 1702, in 10 vols.,
said to be the best, is the one I have used) must be consulted if one really wishes to attain
a fair knowledge of what "this questionable Hortense" (as Mr. Carlyle would probably have called
her) really did in literature; and no one, even of these, appears to contain the whole of her
ascribed compositions. What used sometimes to be quoted as her principal work, Le Grand Alcandre
Frustré (the last word being often omitted), is, in fact, a very small book, containing a bit
of scandal about the Grand Monarque, of the same kind as those which myriad anonyms of the
time printed in Holland, and of which any one who wants them may find specimens enough in the
Bibliothèque Elzévirienne edition of Bussy-Rabutin. Its chief--if not its only--attraction
is an exceedingly quaint frontispiece--a cavalier and lady standing with joined hands under
a chandelier, the torches of which are held by a ring of seven Cupids, so that the lower one
hangs downwards, and the disengaged hand of the cavalier, which is raised, seems to be grabbing
at him.

[Sidenote: The collected love-stories.]

Most of the rest, putting aside the doubtful Henriette de Molière already referred to, are
collections of love-stories, which their titles, rather than their contents, would seem to
have represented to the ordinary commentator as loose. There is really very little impropriety,
except of the mildest kind, in any of them,[218] and they chiefly consist of the kind of quasi-historic
anecdote (only better told) which is not uncommon in English, as, for instance, in Croxall's
Novelist. They are rather well written, but for the most part consist of very "public" material,
scarcely made "private" by any striking merit, and distinguished by curious liberties with
history, if not with morals.

[Sidenote: Their historic liberties.]

[Sidenote: Carmente, etc.]

For instance, in one of her Amours Galantes the Elfrida-Ethelwold-Edgar story is told, not
only with "Edward I. of England" for the deceived and revengeful king, but with a further and
more startling intrusion of Eleanor of Guyenne! That of Inez de Castro is treated in a still
more audacious manner. Also (with what previous example I know not, but Hortense was exceedingly
apt to have previous examples) the names of the heretic to whom Dante was not merciful and
of his beloved Margaret--names to which Charles Kingsley made the atonement of two of the most
charming of his neglected poems--appear as "Dulcin" and "Marguerite," King and Queen of Lombardy,
but guilty of more offensive lubricity than the sternest inquisitor ever charged on the historical
Dolcino and his sect. For this King and Queen set up, in cold blood, two courts of divorce,
in one of which each is judge, with the direct purpose of providing themselves with a supply
of temporary wives and husbands. Some have maintained that no less a thing than the Princesse
de Clèves itself was suggested by something of Mme. de Villedieu's; but this seems to me merely
the usual plagiarism-hunter's blunder of forgetting that the treatment, not the subject, is
the crux of originality. Of her longer books, Alcidamie, the first, has been spoken of. The
Amours des Grandes Hommes and Cléonice ou le Roman Galant belong to the "keyed" Heroics; while
the Journal Amoureux, which runs to nearly five hundred pages, has Diane de Poitiers for its
chief heroine. Lastly, Carmente (or, as it was reprinted, Carmante) is a sort of mixed pastoral,
with Theocritus himself introduced, after a fashion noted more than once before.

[Sidenote: Her value on the whole.]

Her most praised things, recently, have been the story of the loves of Henri IV. and Mme. de
Sauve (lightly touched on, perhaps "after" her in both senses, by Dumas) in the Amours Galantes,
and a doubtful story (also attributed to the obscure M. de Preschac of the Cabinet des Fées[219])
entitled L'Illustre Parisienne, over which folk have quarrelled as to whether it is to be labelled
"realist" or not. One regrets, however, to have to say that--except for fresh, if not very
strong, evidence of that "questing" character which we find all over the subjects of these
two chapters--the interest of Mme. de Villedieu's work can hardly be called great. By a long
chapter of accidents, the present writer, who had meant to read her some five-and-thirty years
ago, never read her actually till the other day--with all good will, with no extravagant expectation
beforehand, but with some disappointment at the result. She is not a bookmaker of the worst
kind; she evidently had wits and literary velleities; and she does illustrate the blind nisus
of the time as already indicated. But beyond the bookmaking class she never, I think, gets.
Her mere writing is by no means contemptible, and we may end by pointing out two little points
of interest in Carmente. One is the appearance of the name "Ardélie," which our own Lady Winchelsea
took and anglicised as her coterie title. It may occur elsewhere, but I do not recollect it.
The other is yet a fresh anticipation of that bold figure of speech which has been cited before
from Dickens--one of the characters appearing "in a very clean shepherd's dress and a profound
melancholy." Mme. de Villedieu (it is about the only place she has held hitherto, if she has
held any, in ordinary Histories of French Literature) has usually been regarded as closing
the Heroic school. We may therefore most properly turn from her directly to the last and most
cheerful division of the subjects of this chapter--the Fairy Tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The fairy tale.]

One of the greatest solaces of the writer of this book, and, he would fain hope, something
of a consolation to its readers, has been the possibility, and indeed advisability, of abstention
from certain stock literary controversies, or at worst of dismissing them with very brief mention.
This solace recurs in reference to the large, vague, and hotly debated subject of folklore
and fairy stories, their connection, and the origin of the latter. It is true that "the pleasure
gives way to a savour of sorrow," to adopt a charming phrase of Mr. Dobson's, when I think
of the amiable indignation which the absence of what I shall not say, and perhaps still more
the presence of some things that I shall say, would have caused in my friend, and his friend,
the late Mr. Andrew Lang.[220] But the irreparable is always with us. Despite the undoubted
omnipresence of the folk-story, with its "fairy" character in the general sense, I have always
wanted more proof than I have ever received, that the thing is of Western rather than of Eastern
origin, and that our Western stories of the kind, in so far as they affected literature before
a very recent period, are independent. But I attach no particular value to this opinion, and
it will influence nothing that I say here. So with a few more half-words to the wise, as that
Mme. d'Aulnoy had been in Spain, that the Crusades took place in the eleventh century, that,
independently thereof, Scandinavians had been "Varangians" very early at Constantinople, etc.
etc., let us come to the two great literary facts--the chorus of fairy tale-telling proper
at the end of the century (of which the coryphaei are the lady already mentioned and Perrault),
and the epoch-making translation of The Arabian Nights by Galland.

[Sidenote: Its general characteristics--the happy ending.]

In a certain sense, no doubt, the fairy tale may be said to be merely a variety of the age-old
fabliau and nouvelle. But it is, for literary purposes, a distinctly and importantly new variety--new
not merely in subject, even in the widest possible sense of that rather disputable (or at least
disputed) word, but in that nescio quid between subject and treatment for which I know no better
term than the somewhat vague one "atmosphere." It has the priceless quality of what may be
called good childishness; it gives not merely Fancy but Imagination the freest play, and, till
it has itself created one, it is free from any convention. It continued, indeed, always free
from those "previous" conventions which are so intolerable. For it is constantly forgotten
that a convention in its youth is often positively healthy, and a convention in the prime of
its life a very tolerable thing. It is the old conventions which, as Mahomet rashly acknowledged
about something else (saving himself, however, most dexterously afterwards), cannot be tolerated
in Paradise. Moreover, besides creating of necessity a sort of fresh dialect in which it had
to be told, and producing a set of personages entirely unhackneyed, it did an immense service
by introducing a sort of etiquette, quite different from the conventions above noticed,--a
set of manners, as it may almost be called, which had the strongest and most beneficial influence--though,
like all strong and good things, it might be perverted--on fiction generally. In this all sorts
of nice things, as in the original prescription for what girls are made of, were included--variety,
gaiety, colour, surprise, a complete contempt of the contemptible, or of that large part of
it which contains priggishness, propriety, "prunes, and prism" generally. Moreover (and here
I fear that the above promised abstinence from the contentious must be for a little time waived)
it confirmed a great principle of novel and romance alike, that if you can you should "make
a good end," as, teste Romance herself, Guinevere did, though the circumstances were melancholy.

The termination of a fairy tale rarely is, and never should be, anything but happy. For this
reason I have always disliked--and though some of the mighty have left their calm seats and
endeavoured to annihilate me for it, I still continue to dislike--that old favourite of some
part of the public, The Yellow Dwarf. That detestable creature (who does not even amuse me)
had no business to triumph; and, what is more, I don't believe he did. Not being an original
writer, I cannot tell the true history as it might be told; but I can criticise the false.
I do not object to this version because of its violation of poetical justice--in which, again,
I don't believe. But this is neither poetical, nor just, nor amusing. It is a sort of police
report, and I have never much cared for police reports. I should like to have set Maimoune
at the Yellow Dwarf: and then there would have been some fun.

It is probably unnecessary to offer any translations here, because the matter is so generally
known, and because the books edited by that regretted friend of mine above mentioned have spread
it (with much other matter of the same kind) more widely than ever. But the points mentioned
above, and perhaps some others, can never be put too firmly to the credit of the fairy tale
as regards its influence on fiction, and on French fiction particularly. It remains to be seen,
in the next chapter, how what a few purists may call its contamination by, but what we may
surely be permitted to call its alliance with, "polite literature" was started, or practically
started, through the direct agency of no Frenchman, but of a man who can be claimed by England
in the larger and national sense, by Scotland and Ireland and England again in the narrower
and more parochial--by Anthony Hamilton. His work, however, must be left till that next chapter,
though in this we may, after the "blessed originals" just mentioned, take in their sometimes
degenerate successors for nearly a hundred years after Perrault's time.

[Sidenote: Perrault and Mme. d'Aulnoy.]

Well, however, as the simpler and purer fairy-tales may be known to all but twentieth-century
children (who are said not to like them), it is doubtful whether many people have considered
them in the light in which we have to regard them here, so as to see in them both a link in
the somewhat complicated chain of novel development, and also one which is not dead metal,
but serves as a medium for introducing powerful currents of influence on the chain itself.
We have dwelt on one point--the desirableness, if not necessity, of shortness in them--as specially
valuable at the time. No doubt they need not all be as short as Perrault's, though even among
his there are instances (not to mention L'Adroite Princesse for the moment), such as Peau d'Âne,
of more than twenty pages, as against the five of the Chaperon Rouge and the ten of Barbe Bleue,
Le Chat Botté, and Cendrillon. Mme. d'Aulnoy's run longer; but of course the longest[221] of
all are mites to the mammoths of the Scudéry romance. A fairy story must never "drag," and
in its better, and indeed all its genuine, forms it never does. Further (it must be remembered
that "Little Red Riding Hood," in its unadulterated and "unhappy ending" form, is not a fairy
story at all, for talking animals are not peculiar to that), "fairiness," the actual presence
of these gracious or ungracious but always between-human-and-divine-creatures, is necessary,[222]
and their agency must be necessary too. In this and other ways it is interesting to contrast
two stories (which are neighbours to each other, with Peau d'Âne between them, in the convenient
one-volume collection of French Fairy Tale classics published by Gamier), Mme. d'Aulnoy's Gracieuse
et Percinet and L'Adroite Princesse ou Les Aventures de Finette, which appeared with Perrault's,
but which I can hardly believe to be his. They are about the same length, but the one is one
of the best and the other one of the worst examples of its author and of the general style.
It may be worth while to analyse both very briefly. As for Perrault's better work, such analysis
should be as unnecessary as it would be irreverent.

[Sidenote: Commented examples--Gracieuse et Percinet.]

That Gracieuse et Percinet is of an essentially "stock" character is not in the least against
it, for so it ought to be: and the "stock" company that plays its parts plays them well. The
father is perhaps rather excessively foolish and unnatural, but then he almost had to be. The
wicked and ugly stepmother tops, but does not overtop, her part, and her punishment is not
commonplace. Gracieuse herself deserves her name, not only "by her comely face and by her fair
bodie," but by her good but not oppressive wits, and her amiable but not faultless disposition.
She ought not to have looked into the box; but then we should not have liked her nearly as
much if she had not done so. She was foolishly good in refusing to stay with Percinet; but
we are by no means certain that we should like her better if she had thrown herself into his
arms at the first or second time of asking. Besides, where would have been the story? As for
Percinet, he escapes in a wonderful fashion, though partly by help of his lady's little wilfulnesses,
the dangers of the handsome, amiable, in a small way always successful, and almost omnipotent
hero. There is a sort of ironic tenderness, in his letting Gracieuse again and again go her
wilful way and show her foolish filiality, which saves him. He is always ready, and does his
spiriting in the politest and best manner, particularly when he shepherds all those amusing
but rebellious little people into their box again--a feat which some great novelists have achieved
but awkwardly in their own cases. There is even pathos in the apparently melancholy statement
that the fairy palace is dead, and that Gracieuse will never see it till she is buried. I should
like to have been Percinet, and I should particularly like to have married Gracieuse.

Moreover, the thing is full of small additional seasonings of incident and phrase to the solid
feast of fairy working which it provides. Gracieuse's "collation," with its more than twenty
pots of different jams, has a delightful realty (which is slightly different from reality)
even for those to whom jam has never been the very highest of human delights, because they
prefer savouries to sweets. Even the abominable duchess seems to have had a splendid cellar,
before she took to filling the casks with mere gold and jewels to catch the foolish king. It
is impossible to imagine a scene more agreeably compounded of politeness and affection than
Percinet's first introduction of himself to the Princess: and it is extraordinarily nice to
find that they knew all about each other before, though we have had not the slightest previous
information as to the acquaintance. I am very much afraid that he made his famous horse kick
and plunge when Grognon was on him; but it must be remembered that he had been made to lead
that animal against his will. The description of the hag's flogging Gracieuse with feathers
instead of scourges is a quite admirable adaptation of some martyrological stories; and when,
in her dilapidated condition, she remarks that she wishes he would go away, because she has
always been told that she must not be alone with young gentlemen, one feels that the martyrdom
must have been transferred, in no mock sense, to Percinet himself. If she borrows Psyche's
trials, what good story is not another good story refreshed?[223]

[Sidenote: L'Adroite Princesse.]

But if almost everything is good and well managed in Gracieuse, it may also be said that almost
everything is badly managed in Finette.[224] To begin with, there is that capital error which
has been noticed above, that it is not really a fairy tale at all. Except the magic quenouilles,
which themselves are of the smallest importance in the story, there is nothing in it beyond
the ways of an ordinary adventurous nouvelle. The touch of grivoiserie by which the Princesses
Nonchalante and Babillarde allow the weaknesses ticketed in their names to hand them over as
a prey to the cunning and blackguard Prince Riche-Cautèle, under pretence of entirely unceremonised
and unwitnessed "marriage," is in no way amusing. Finette's escapes from the same fate are
a little better, but the whole is told (as its author seems to have felt) at much too great
length; and the dragging in of an actual fairy at the end, to communicate to the heroine the
exceedingly novel and recondite maxim that "Prudence is the mother of safety," is almost idiotic.
If the thing has any value, it is as an example, not of a real fairy tale nor of a satire on
fairy tales (for which it is much too much "out of the rules" and much too stupid), but of
something which may save an ordinary reader, or even student, from attacking, as I fear we
shall have to do, the Cabinet des Fées at large, and discovering, by painful experience, how
excessively silly and tedious the corruption of this wise and delightful kind may be.

One might, of course, draw lessons from others of the original batches, but this may suffice
for the specimen batch under immediate review. Peau d'Âne, one of the most interesting to "folklorists"
and origin-hunters, is, of course, also in itself interesting to students of literature. Its
combination of the old theme of the incestuous passion of a father for his daughter, with the
special but not invariable shadow of excuse in the selfish vanity of the mother's dying request,
is quite out of the usual way of these things. So is the curious series of fairy failures--things
apparently against the whole set of the game--beginning with the unimaginative conception of
dresses, weather-, or sky-, moon-, and sun-colour, rendered futile by the success of the artists,
and ending in the somewhat banal device of making yourself ugly and running away, with the
odd conclusion-contrast of Peau d'Âne's squalid appearance in public and her private splendour
in the fairy garments.

[Sidenote: The danger of the "moral."]

Still, the lessons of correction, warning, and instruction to be drawn from these gracious
little things, for the benefit of their younger and more elaborate successors, are not easily
exhausted. They are, on the whole, very moral, and it is well that morality, rightly understood,
should animate fiction. But they are occasionally much too moral, and then they warn off instead
of cheering on. Take, for instance, two other neighbours in the collection just quoted, Le
Prince Chéri and the ever-delightful La Belle et La Bête. Both of these are moral; but the
latter is just moral enough, while Chéri, with one or two alleviations (of which, perhaps,
more presently), is hardly anything if not moral, and therefore disgusts, or at any rate bores.
On the other hand, "Beauty" is as bonne as she is belle; her only fault, that of overstaying
her time, is the result of family affection, and her reward and the punishment of the wicked
sisters are quite copy-book. But it is not for this part that we love what is perhaps the most
engaging of all the tales. It is for Beauty's own charm, which is subtly conveyed; for the
brisk and artistic "revolutions and discoveries"; above all, for the far from merely sentimental
pathos of the Beast's all but death for love, and the not in the least mawkish bringing of
him to life again by love.[225]

[Sidenote: Yet often redeemed.]

