But, although probably quite as many instances may be found in one sex as in the other, the
characteristics of a spoiled child are distinctly feminine, and in no measure belong to robust
masculinity. Thus, for a study, let us take a girl who from her cradle has found everything
subordinate to her princess-like whims, inclinations and caprices, and has had her way by smiles
and cajoleries or sobs and tears, as the case may be. She finds out at an early age that it
is pleasanter and more profitable to be petted and pampered than to be forced to shift for
herself. She learns that an easy little pitiful curve of her coral lips and upward glance of
her baby orbs is answered by certain manifestations of tenderness and concern: thus she "makes
eyes," flirts, as it were, before she can talk, and studies the art of successful tyranny.
The nursery--in fact, the entire house--rejoices when she rejoices and trembles when she weeps.
She wants everything she sees, and sulks at any superiority of circumstances in another; but
then she sulks bewitchingly. Wherever she goes she carries an imperious sway, and keeps her
foot well on the necks of her admirers.

The spoiled child blossoms into perfection as a young lady. That is her destiny, and to the
proper fulfilment of it her family and friends stand ready to devote themselves. It may be
they are a trifle weary of her incalculable temper, that her fascinations have palled a little
upon them, and that her mysterious inability to put up with the lot of every-day mortals and
bear disagreeables contentedly has worn out their patience. They want her to marry, and, without
wasting any empty wishing upon a result so certain to come, she wants to marry herself. She
is not likely to have unattainable ideals: what she demands is a continuation of her petted
existence--a lifelong adorer to minister to her vanity and desires, to find her always beautiful,
always precious, and to smooth away the rough places of life for her.

Nothing can be more bewitching than she is on her entrance into society. Nothing could seem
more desirable to an admirer than the possession of the beautiful creature, who, with her alternations
of sweetness and imperiousness, tenderness, and cruelty, stimulates his ardor and appears more
like a spirit of fire and dew than a real woman. It seems to him the most delightful thing
in the world when she confesses that she never likes what she has, but always craves what she
has not--that she hates everything useful and prosaic and likes everything which people declare
she ought to renounce. She is unreasonable, and he loves her unreason--it bewitches him: she
is obstinate, and he loves to feel the strength of her tiny will, as if it were the manifestation
of some phenomenal force in her nature. Her scorn for common things, her fastidiousness, her
indifference to the little obligations which compel less dainty and spirited creatures,--all
act as chains and rivet his attachment to her.

A few months later, when she has become his wife, and he is forced to look at her tempers and
her caprices, at her fastidiousness and expensiveness, from an altered standpoint, her whole
character seems to be illuminated with new light. He no longer finds her charming when she
has an incurable restlessness and melancholy: her pretty negations of the facts life present
to her begin to seem to him the product of a mind undisciplined by any actual knowledge that
she is "a human creature, subject to the same laws as other human creatures." He has hitherto
considered that her scorn for the common and usual indicated an appreciation of the rarest
and loftiest, but she seems to have no appreciation for anything save enjoyment. She has no
idea of the true purposes of life: she likes everything dwarfed to suit her own stature. It
is not by compliance that her husband can give her more than temporary pleasure. If she wants
to see Europe, Europe will not satisfy her. "Sense will support itself handsomely in most countries,"
says Carlyle, "on eighteen pence a day, but for fantasy planets and solar systems will not
suffice."

L.W.

PRAYER-MEETING ELOQUENCE.

Weekly prayer-meetings in New England villages offer a variety of singular experiences to the
unaccustomed listener, and it seems almost incredible at times that they can furnish spiritual
sustenance even to the devout. There are apt to be two or three among the regular attendants
who being, according to their own estimate, "gifted in prayer," raise their voices loud and
long with many a mellifluous phrase and lofty-sounding polysyllable. Mr. Eli Lewis is one of
the most eloquent among the church-members in the village of C----, and if left to his own
way would engross the entire evening with his prayers and exhortations. Nothing is too large
for his imagination to grasp nor too small for his observations to consider. "O Lord, Thou
knowest!" he repeats endlessly, sometimes qualifying this statement by putting into the next
phrase, "O Lord, Thou art probably aware!" He is fond of poetry too, and frequently interpolates
into his petition and thanksgiving his favorite verses. His fellow-worshippers are fully conscious
of his excellent intentions, but there is some jealousy of the surpassing length of his prayers.
The other evening he was standing, as his custom is, with his long arms upraised with many
a strange gesture. He had been on his feet half an hour already, and there began to be signs
of restlessness among the bowed heads around him. Still, there was no sign of any let up. He
was engaged in drawing a vivid picture of the condition of the universe in the abstract, the
world in general and his country and native village in particular, and required ample time
fully to elucidate his views regarding their needs, but proposed to illustrate it by quotations.
"O Lord," said he, "Thou knowest what the poet Cowper says--" He paused and cleared his throat
as if the better to articulate the inspired strains of poetry, and began again more emphatically:
"O Lord, Thou art probably aware what the poet Cowper says--" but the second time broke off.
He could not remember what it was the poet Cowper said, but with a view to taking the place
his memory halted at, went back to the starting-place and recommenced: "O Lord, Thou recollectest
what the poet Cowper says--" It was of no use: he could not think of it, and with a wild gesture
put his hand to his head. "O Lord," he exclaimed in a tone of excessive pain, "I cannot remember
what the poet Cowper says," and prepared to go on with other matter; but Deacon Smith had been
watching his opportunity for twenty minutes, and was already on his feet. "Let us pray," he
said in a deep voice, which broke on Brother Lewis's ears with preternatural power, and he
was obliged to sit down while the senior deacon held forth. No sooner, however, had Deacon
Smith's amen sounded than Mr. Eli Lewis started up. "O Lord," he cried in a tone of heartfelt
satisfaction, "I remember now what the poet Cowper says;" and, repeating it at length, he finished
his remarks.

It was Deacon Smith who one Sunday asked his pastor to put a petition for rain into his afternoon
prayer, as moisture was very much needed by the deacon's parched fields and meadows. Accordingly,
Dr. Peters, who was something of a rhetorician, alluded in his prayer to the melancholy prospects
of the harvest unless rain should soon be sent, and requested that the Almighty would consider
their sufferings and dispense the floods which He held in His right hand. After service, as
the reverend doctor left the church, he saw Mr. Smith standing rigid in the porch, perhaps
looking for a rising cloud, and remarked to him, "Well, deacon, I hope our petition may be
answered." He received only a snort of wrath and defiance in reply. Rather puzzled as to what
had vexed his parishioner, Dr. Peters said blandly, "You heard my prayer for a shower, Deacon
Smith?" The deacon turned grimly: "I heard you mention the matter of rain, Dr. Peters, but,
good Heavens, sir! you should have insisted upon it!"

A.T.

THE JARDIN D'ACCLIMATATION OF PARIS.

This beautiful garden, one of the most attractive places in the world, was established in the
Bois de Boulogne in 1860. It was in the most flourishing condition at the time of the breaking
out of the war with Germany. That war nearly ruined it. During the siege elephants and other
valuable animals were sacrificed for food. The carrier-pigeons that did such noble service
during the siege were mostly raised in this establishment, and those that survived the war
are kept there and most tenderly preserved. "Many died gloriously on the field of honor," as
we read in the records of the society, which preserve a full account of their wonderful feats.
Some of them again and again dared the Prussian lines, carrying those precious microscopic
despatches photographed upon pellicles of collodion--so light that the whole one hundred and
fifteen thousand received during the siege do not weigh over one gramme, a little over fifteen
grains!

The great greenhouse of these gardens for plants that cannot endure a temperature lower than
two degrees below zero centigrade (28.4° Fahr.) would enchant even the most indifferent observer.
The building itself is one of the finest structures of its kind. It was once the property of
the Lemichez Brothers, celebrated florists at Villiers, at which place it was known as the
Palais des Flors. The Acclimatation Society purchased it in 1861, and every winter since then
there has been a magnificent and unfailing display of flowers there. Masses of camellias, rhododendrons,
azaleas, primroses, bruyères, pelargoniums constantly succeed each other. These are merely
to delight the visitors, the great object of the hothouse being to nurse foreign plants and
experiment with them. Among the rare ones are the paper-plant of the Aralia family; the Chamærops,
or hemp-plant; the Phormium tenax, or New Zealand flax; and the Eucalyptus of Australia, that
wonderful tree introduced lately into Algeria, where it grows six mètres a year, and yields
more revenue than the cereals. This, at least, is what the official handbook of the garden
says. It may be that the famous "fever-plant" has lost some of the faith accorded to it at first.

At the end of this great greenhouse there is a beautiful grotto where a little brook loses
itself playing hide-and-seek among the fronds of the maiden-hair and other lovely ferns. At
the right of this grotto is a reading-room where visitors may find all the current periodicals--on
the left, the library of the society, rich in works upon agriculture, zootechnie, natural history,
travels, industrial and domestic economy, etc., in several languages. The remarkable thing
about this great greenhouse is the ever-flourishing, ever-perfect condition of its vegetation.
Of course this effect must be secured by succursal hothouses, not always open to visitors.
No tree, no plant, ever appears there in a sickly condition, but this may be said also of the
animals in the gardens. I shall not soon forget a great wire canary cage some sixteen or more
feet square, enclosing considerable shrubbery and scores of birds. There I received my first
notion of the natural brilliancy of the plumage of these birds: its golden sheen literally
dazzled the eyes.

The garden does excellent work for the French people besides furnishing a popular school and
an inimitable pleasure resort: it assures the preservation of approved varieties of fruits,
grains, animals. Whoever questions the absolute purity of his stock, from a garden herb up
to an Arabian steed, can place this beyond question by substituting those furnished by the
Society of Acclimatation. Eggs of birds packed in its garden have safely crossed the Atlantic,
seventy-five per cent. hatching on their arrival. So immensely has the business of the society
increased that more ground has had to be secured for nursery and seed-raising purposes, and
the whole vast Zoological Gardens of Marseilles have been secured and turned into a "tender,"
as it were, to the Jardin d'Acclimatation at Paris. This was a very important acquisition.
Marseilles, the great Mediterranean sea-port of France, is necessarily the spot where treasures
from Africa, Asia and the South Sea Islands have to be landed, and they arrive often in a critical
condition and need rest and careful nursing before continuing their journey.

One of the functions of the garden is to restock parks with game when the pheasants, hares,
wild-boars, deer, etc. become too rare for good sport: another is to tame and break to the
harness certain animals counted unmanageable. The zebra is one of these. The society has succeeded
perfectly in breaking the zebra and making him work in the field quite like the horse. An ostrich
also allows itself to be harnessed to a small carriage and to draw two children in it over
the garden. Still another work of the society is to breed new species. A very beautiful animal
has been bred by crossing the wild-ass of Mongolia with the French variety.

Among the rare animals of the garden may be mentioned the apteryx, the only bird existing belonging
to the same family as the Dinornis giganteus and the still larger Epyornis maximus of Madagascar--monstrous
wingless birds now extinct. One of the eggs of the latter in a fossil condition is preserved
in the museum of the Garden of Plants in Paris. Its longer axis is sixteen inches, I think.
It is, for an egg, a most wonderful thing, and on account of its size the bird laying it has
been supposed to be of very much greater size than even the Dinornis giganteus, a perfect skeleton
of which exists; but this seems to be a too hasty conclusion, for the apteryx, a member of
the same family, has laid an egg or two in captivity, and one of these on being weighed proved
to be very nearly one-fourth the whole weight of the bird, the bird weighing sixty ounces and
the egg fourteen and a half.

The Tallegalla Lathami, or brush-turkey of Australia, is another rare bird. It does not sit
upon its eggs, but constructs a sort of hot-bed for them, which it watches during the whole
term as assiduously as a wise florist does his seeds planted under glass or as a baker does
his ovens. As in the ostrich family, it is the male that has the entire care of the family
from the moment the eggs are laid--a fairer division of labor than we see in most ménages.
The interesting process of constructing the hot-bed has been observed several times in Europe.
It is as follows: When the time arrives for the making of the nest the enclosure is supplied
with sticks, leaves and detritus of various kinds. The male then, with his tail to the centre
of the enclosure, commences with his powerful feet to throw up a mound of the materials furnished.
To do this he walks around in a series of concentric circles. When the mound is about four
feet high the female adds a few artistic touches by way of smoothing down, evening the surface
and making a depression in the centre, where the eggs in due time are laid in a circle, each
with the point downward and no two in contact. The male tends this hot-bed most unweariedly.
"A cylindrical opening is always maintained in the centre of the circle"--no doubt for ventilation--and
the male will often cover and uncover the eggs two or three times a day, according to the change
of temperature. The observer, noting how intelligently this bird watches the temperature, almost
expects to see him thrust a thermometer into his mound! On the second day after it is hatched
the young bird leaves the nest, but returns to it in the afternoon, and is very cozily tucked
up by his devoted papa.

One thing in the garden that used to greatly attract visitors was the Gaveuse Martin, a machine
for cramming fowls in order to fatten them rapidly. The society considered Martin's invention
of so much importance to the world that it granted him a building in the garden and permission
to charge a special admission. The machine has since been introduced into the artificial egg-hatching
establishment of Mr. Baker at Catskill-on-the-Hudson; at least, he has a machine for "forced
feeding" which must greatly resemble Martin's. Specimens fattened by the Gaveuse Martin, all
ready for the broche, used to be sold on the premises. The interior of the building was occupied
by six gigantic épinettes, each holding two hundred birds. A windlass mounted upon a railroad
enabled the operator (gaveur, from gaver, to cram, an inelegant term) very easily to raise
himself to any story of the épinette. The latter was a cylinder turning upon its axis, and
thus passing every bird in review. "An india-rubber tube introduced into the throat, accompanied
by the pressure of the foot upon a pedal, makes the bird absorb its copious and succulent repast
in the wink of an eye." Four hundred an hour have been thus fed by one operator. Fowls thus
fattened are said to possess a delicacy of flavor entirely their own.

M. H.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

     Christy Carew. By May Laffan, author of "The Honorable Miss
     Ferrard," etc. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New York: Henry Holt &
     Co.

The novels to which Miss Laffan gives a sponsor in affixing her signature to the latest, Christy
Carew, present two strong and distinct claims to our notice in the vigor and realism with which
they are written, and the thorough picture they give of Ireland, politically and socially,
at the present day. They are no mere repetitions of hackneyed Irish stories, no sketches drawn
from a narrow or partial phase of life, but the result of large and penetrating observation
among all classes, made in a thoroughly systematized manner, so as to form a thoughtful and
almost exhaustive study of a country which is more dogmatized over than understood. Ireland
has never been depicted with so much interest and sympathy by any novelist since Miss Edgeworth
wrote her Moral Tales, and both the country and the art of novel-writing have advanced since
then, the latter possibly more than the former. Miss Edgeworth, indeed, has been singularly
unfortunate. She drew from life, and her talent and observation were worthy of a more lasting
shrine, while the artificiality of her books has caused them to decay even faster than those
of some of her contemporaries. Her successors in Irish fiction, with no lack of talent, have
been too often careless in using it, or have preferred story-telling to observation. Miss Laffan
wields a genuine Irish pen, graphic, keen of satire, with plenty of sharp Hibernian humor,
but she shows in its exercise a care and directness of aim which are not the common qualities
of Irish writers. In beginning her career as a novelist she had the courage to refrain from
the pursuit of those finer artistic beauties which lure to failure so many writers incapable
of seizing them: she even put aside the question of plot, and strove to give a sound and truthful
representation of life and manners.

That end was gained with masterly success. No one reading the anonymous novel Hogan, M.P.,
would have been likely to set it down from internal evidence as a woman's book: it is one of
the stoutest and most vigorous pieces of fiction which have appeared for years. We can find
no trace of its having been reprinted in this country, and are at a loss to account for the
omission: its distinctively Irish character ought to form an attraction. Hogan, M.P., is a
political novel as realistic as Anthony Trollope's, but more incisive in tone and wider in
scope. Instead of confining her energies to the doings and conversations of one set of people,
Miss Laffan looks at politics as they are mirrored in society, sketching not alone the wire-pulling
and petty diplomacies, but phases of life resulting therefrom. In Hogan, M.P., we have a vivid
coup d'oeil of Dublin society, with its sharp, irregular boundaries, its sects and sets, its
manner of comporting and amusing itself. The field is a wide one, but Miss Laffan has the happy
art of generalization--of portraying a whole society in a few well-marked types. There is no
confusion of character, and though we seem to have shaken hands with all Dublin in her pages,
from great dignitaries to school-boys, the picture is never overcrowded.

"A drop of ditch-water under a microscope" Hogan calls the society of his native city--"everybody
pushing upward on the social ladder kicking down those behind." This zoological spectacle is
not confined to Dublin, but there appears to be a combination of strictness and indefiniteness
of precedence belonging peculiarly to that place. At the top of the ladder, though not so firmly
fixed there as before the Disestablishment, is the Protestant set, regarding the Castle as
its stronghold and looking down on the Roman Catholic set, who reciprocate the contempt. These
grand divisions are separated by a strict line of demarcation, even the performance of the
marriage ceremony between Protestants and Catholics being forbidden in Dublin. They contain
an endless ramification of lesser groups, whose relations we may attempt to illustrate by quoting
from the book before us an account of the mutual position of Mrs. O'Neil and Mrs. Carew, the
former the wife of a tradesman shortly to become lord mayor, the latter a "'vert" from Protestantism
and the spouse of a Crown solicitor in debt to his future mayorship. "The lady mayoress elect,
conscious of her prospective dignity in addition to the heavy bill due by the Carews, was the
least possible shade--not patronizing, for that would have been impossible--but perhaps independent
in manner. She did not turn her head toward her companion as she addressed her; she put more
questions to her and in a broader accent than she usually did in conversation; and she barely
gave her interlocutor time to finish the rather curt contributions she vouchsafed toward the
conversation. On her side, Mrs. Carew, mindful of her position and of her superior accent,
which implied even more, wanting to be condescending and patronizing, and half afraid to be
openly impertinent, was calm and self-possessed. She grew more freezingly courteous as the
other lady grew less formal."

We have said that Miss Laffan began with realism pure and simple. Hogan, M.P., remains, so
far, to our mind, her strongest book, but there are finer and sweeter qualities in her other
writings. We should be inclined to rank The Honorable Miss Ferrard as an artistic rather than
a realistic book, though it is based on the same soundness of observation as its predecessor.
It is an episode, suggestive, rather analytic in treatment, with the freshness of a first impression--le
charme de l'inachevé. The heroine is a singularly original, fresh and attractive conception.
The book deals almost wholly with the outside aspects of things, with picturesque rather than
moral traits, though a breath of feeling true and sweet is wafted across it and heightens its
fine vague beauty.

A deeper humanity is shown in the short story Flitters, Tatters and the Counsellor, which made
its first appearance in this magazine in January, 1879. This sketch gained a quicker popularity
than her longer novels, and drew forth warm eulogies from critics so far apart in standard
as Ruskin, Leslie Stephen and Bret Harte.

Christy Carew, in its picture of two middle-class Catholic families in Dublin, takes us back
to the society described in Hogan, M.P., but its range is narrower and its theme rather social
than political. It is a softer and more attractive book than Hogan, M.P., though, like that
novel, it is devoted to a realistic picture of life. Miss Laffan's characters have the merit
of being always real. They are often types, but they are never mere abstractions. Whatever
their importance or qualities, they stand firmly on their feet, are individual and alive. Her
men are drawn with a vigor which ought to ensure them from the reproach of being ladies' men.
They may display traits of weakness, but these are due to no faltering on the author's part.
In Christy Carew the men are in a minority as far as minuteness of portraiture goes, and the
most elaborate touches are bestowed on the two young girls who act as heroines, for the one
is as prominent as the other. Christy and her friend Esther O'Neil present two types of girlhood.
Esther, dévote and gentle, is a very tender, lovable figure, but there is perhaps more skill
shown in the more contradictory character of Christy, a pretty girl addicted to flirting, keenly
intelligent and impatient of the restraints and inconsistencies of her religious teaching,
yet with an earnestness which makes her feel the emptiness of her life and vaguely seek for
something higher. When each of the friends is sought by a Protestant lover their different
ways of regarding the calamity are in keeping with their characters, and though any reader
will agree with Christy that Esther was the more deserving of happiness, no one will be sorry
that her own love-story should find a pleasant dénouement. As an argument in favor of mixed
marriages the book would have been stronger if Esther's lover had been separated from her only
by prejudice, and not by unworthiness as well, but the pathos of the story is in no way marred
by the neglect to clinch an argument. Like all Miss Laffan's novels, it is simple in plot.
Construction is not her strong point, and though Christy Carew has more story to it than her
former books, it is by no means technically perfect. There is a certain hurry about it: its
good things are not driven home, and effects upon which more skilful artists would dwell at
length are dropped in a concentration upon other objects. The book, in the American edition,
is also marred by numerous typographical defects that betray a singular laxity in proof-reading.

Hogan, M.P., was published in 1876: Miss Laffan's career as a novelist is therefore only four
years old. We will not attempt to cast its future: we have simply endeavored, as far as space
would admit, to point out the soundness of its foundation and the method by which it has been
laid. In all that she has written there is a reserved strength, a sincerity and conscientiousness,
which mark her work as unmistakably genuine. A large store of observation lies behind all her
writing, and an intellectual power of a very high order is apparent throughout. What she lacks
is a mellowness and breadth of art which would enable her to blend and concentrate her qualities--to
bring the realism of Hogan, M.P., into unison with the grace of The Honorable Miss Ferrard
and the pathos and sympathy of Christy Carew--to give form and completeness to her work. Then
Ireland would have a great novelist.

     The Reminiscences of an Idler. By Henry Wikoff. New York:
     Fords, Howard & Hulbert.

The reminiscences of idle men are apt to be more entertaining than those of busy men. The idler,
passing his time in search of amusement, can hardly fail to communicate it when he yields up
his store of experiences. Being disengaged, his mind is more observant and more retentive of
the by-play of life, which is the only amusing part of it, than that of one of the chief actors
can possibly be. Moreover, idlers are the natural confidants of the busy: they are consulted,
made useful as go-betweens, entrusted with those little services which, being transient and
disconnected, are precisely suited to their disposition and secure them a place in the economy
of Nature. Mr. Wikoff has been a model idler, with large opportunities of this description.
From boyhood he has, according to his own account, shirked all regular application and devoted
himself to the pursuit of pleasure, including the gratification of an intelligent but superficial
curiosity in regard to men and manners. He has come in close contact with a great variety of
people, especially of a class whose private lives and public careers react in the production
of a piquant interest. These associations kept his hands full of what only a very rigid censor
would denominate mischief. His intimacy with Forrest gained him a suitable companion in a journey
to the Crimea, and the tragedian a not less suitable negotiator in the arrangements for his
marriage and his professional engagements in London. He aided Lady Bulwer in her fight with
her husband's family and the recovery of her stolen lap-dog. His friendly offices to Fanny
Ellsler were more important and fruitful. He had the chief share in bringing her to America,
smoothing away the difficulties, assuming the responsibilities, and escorting her in person,
while taking charge at the same time of two other interesting and otherwise unprotected females.
It was, indeed, we need hardly say, in feminine affairs that Mr. Wikoff was most at home. But
his obliging disposition made him equally ready to execute commissions for members of the Bonaparte
family, his relations with whom grew closer and more interesting at a period subsequent to
that which is embraced in this volume. Many other notabilities, both American and European,
have more or less prominence in its pages. Some letters from Mrs. Grote are especially deserving
of notice. As long as it is confined to personal topics the narrative is never dull. Without
being distinguished for vigor or wit, it has the graceful and sprightly garrulity characteristic
of the well-preserved veteran. Unfortunately, it betrays also the tendency to tediousness which
belongs to a revered epoch, much of it, being devoted to persons and things seen only from
a distance and without the powers of vision requisite for penetrating their true character.
But, in spite of this defect, the book is exceedingly readable and enjoyable, and we trust
to have a continuation of it which may show a restraining influence exercised with kindness
and tact, such as were so often exerted by the author for the benefit of his friends.

     The Life and Work of William Augustus Muhlenberg. By Anne
     Ayres. New York: Harper & Brothers.

