"We'll all go if we don't straighten up."

In a moment there was some semblance of order, and Grant wormed his way to the top holding
the ladder above him. He put one end of it on a landing and nailed the foot of the ladder to
the landing floor. Then he stood on the landing, a great, powerful man with blazing eyes, and
called down: "Now come; one at a time, and if any man crowds I'll kill him. Come on--one at
a time." One came and went up; when he was on the third rung of the ladder, Grant let another
man pass up, and so three men were on the ladder.

As the top man raised the trapdoor above, Grant and those upon the ladder could see the flames
and a great gust of smoke poured down. The man at the top hesitated. On the other side of the
partition in the air chute the smoke was pouring and the fire was circling the top of the emergency
escape through which the men must pass.

"Go ahead or jump down," yelled Grant.

Those on the ladder and on the landing who could see up cried:

"Quick, for God's sake! Hurry!"

And in another second the first man had scrambled through the hole, letting the trapdoor fall
upon the head of the scrambling man just under him. He fell, but Grant caught him, and shoved
him into the next turn upon the ladder.

After that they learned to lift their hands up and catch the trapdoor, but they could see the
flames burning the timbers and dropping sparks and blowing smoke down the emergency shaft.
Ten men went up; the fire in the flume along the stairs below them was beginning to whip through
the board partition. The fan was pumping the third level full of smoke; it was carried out
of the stairway by the current. But the men were calling below. Little Ira Dooley tried to
go around Grant ahead of his turn at the ladder. The cheater felt the big man's hand catch
him and hold him. The men below saw Grant hit the cheater upon the point of the jaw and throw
him half conscious under the ladder. The men climbed steadily up. Twenty-five went through
the trapdoor into the unknown hell raging above. Again and again the ladder emptied itself,
as the flames in the shaft grew longer, and the circle of fire above grew broader. The men
passed through the trapdoor with scorching clothes.

The ladder was filling for the last time. The last man was on the first rung. Grant reached
under the ladder, caught Dooley about the waist and started up with him. On the ladder Dooley
regained consciousness, and Grant shoved him ahead and saw Dooley slip through the trapdoor
and then stop in the smoke and fire and stand holding up the door for Grant. The two men smiled
through the smoke, and as Grant came through with his clothes afire, he and Dooley looked quickly
about them. Their lights were out; but the burning timbers above gave them their directions.
They headed down the south passage, but even as they entered it the flames barred them there.
Then they turned to go up the passage, and could hear men calling and yelling far down in the
dark alley. The torches were gone. Far ahead through the stifling smoke that swirled about
the damp timbers overhead, they could see the flickering lights of men running. They started
to follow the lamps. Dooley, who was a little man, slowly dropped back. Grant caught his hand
and dragged him. Soon they came up to the others, who paused to give them lights. Then they
all started to run again, hoping to come out of that passage into the main bottom by the main
shaft in another quarter of a mile. Occasionally a man would begin to lag, but some one always
stopped to give him a hand. Once Grant passed two men, Tom Williams and Evan Davis, leaning
against a timber, Davis fagged, Williams fanning his companion with his cap.

From some cross passage a group of men who worked on the second level came rushing to them.
They had no lights and were lost. Down the passage they all ran together, and at the end they
saw something cluttering it up. The opening seemed to be closed. The front man tumbled and
fell; a dozen men fell over him. Three score men were trapped there, struggling in a pile of
pipes and refuse timber that all but filled the passage into the main bottom. Five minutes
were lost there. Then by twos they crawled into the main bottom. There men were working with
hose, trying to put out the fire in the air course leading to the mule stables. They did not
realize that the other end of the mine was in flames.

Coal was still going up in the cages. The men in the east and west passages were still at work.
Smoke thickened the air. The entrance to the air course was charred, and puffing smoke. The
fans relaxed for a moment upon a signal to cease until the course was explored. A hose was
playing in the course, but no man had ventured down it. When Grant came out he called to the
men with the cage boss: "Where's Kinnehan--where's the pit boss?" No one knew. Some little
boys--trimmers and drivers--were begging to go up with the coal. Finally the cage boss let
them ride up.

While they were wrangling, Grant said: "Lookee here--this is a real fire, men; stop spitting
on that air course with the hose and go turn out the men."

The men from the third level were clamoring at the cage boss to go up.

Grant stopped them: "Now, here--let's divide off, five in a squad and go after the men on this
level, and five in a squad go up to the next level and call the men out there. There's time
if we hurry to save the whole shift." He tolled them off and they went down the glimmering
passages, that were beginning to grow dim with smoke. As he left the main bottom he saw by
his watch under a torch that it was nearly eleven o'clock. He ran with his squad down the passage,
calling out the men from their little rooms. Three hundred yards down the smoke grew denser.
And he met men coming along the passage.

"Are they all out back of you?" he called to the men as they passed. "Yes," they cried, "except
the last three or four rooms."

Grant and his men pushed forward to these rooms. As they went they stumbled over an unconscious
form in the passage. The men behind Grant--Dooley, Hogan, Casper Herdicker, Williams, Davis,
Chopini--joined him. Their work was done. They had been in all the rooms. They picked up the
limp form, and staggered slowly back down the passage. The smoke gripped Grant about the belly
like a vise. He could not breathe. He stopped, then crawled a few feet, then leaned against
a timber. Finally he rose and came upon the swaying group with the unconscious man. Another
man was down, and three men were dragging two.

The smoke kept rolling along behind them. It blackened the passage ahead of them. Most of the
lights the men carried were out. Grant lent a hand, and the swaying procession crawled under
the smoke. They went so slowly that one man, then two on their hands and knees, then three
more caught up with them and they were too exhausted to drag the senseless man with them. At
a puddle in the way they soused the face of the prostrated man in the water. That revived him.
They could hear and feel another man across the passage calling feebly for help. Grant and
Chopini, speaking different languages, understood the universal call of distress, and together
crawled in the dark and felt their way to the feeble voice. Chopini reached the voice first.
Grant could just distinguish in the darkness the powerful movement of the Italian, with his
head upon the ground like a nosing dog's as he wormed under the fallen body and got it on his
back and bellied over to the group that was slowly moving down the passage toward the glimmering
light. As they passed the rooms vacated by the miners, sometimes they put their heads in and
got refreshing air, for the smoke moved in a slow, murky current down the passage and did not
back into the rooms at first.

Grant and Chopini crawled on all fours into a room, and found the air fresh. They rose, holding
each other's hands. They leaned together against the dark walls and breathed slowly, and finally
their diaphragms seemed to be released and they breathed more deeply. By a hand signal they
agreed to start out. At the door they crouched and crawled. A few yards further they found
the little group of a dozen men feebly pushing on. Seven were trying to drag five. Further
down the passage they could hear the shrill cries of the men in the main bottom, as they came
hurrying from the other runways, and far back up the dark passage behind them they could hear
the roar of flames. They saw that they were trapped. Behind them was the fire. Before them
was the long, impossible stretch to the main bottom, with the smoke thickening and falling
lower every second. So thick was the smoke that the light ahead winked out. Death stood before
them and behind them.

"Boys--" gasped Grant, "in here--let's get in one of these rooms and wall it up."

The seven looked at him and he crawled to a room; sticking his head in he found it murky. He
tried another. The third room was fresh and cool, and he called the men in.

Then all nine dragged one after another of the limp bodies into the room and they began walling
the door into the passage. There were two lights on a dozen caps. Grant put out one lamp and
they worked by the glimmer of a single lamp. Gradually, but with a speed--slow as it had to
be--inspired by deadly terror, the wall went up. They daubed it with mud that seemed to refresh
itself from a pool that was hollowed in the floor. After what seemed an age of swiftly accurate
work, the wall was waist high; the smoke bellied in, in a gust, and was suddenly sucked out
by an air current, and the men at the wall tapping some spring of unknown energy bent frantically
to their task. Three of the six men were coming to life. They tried to rise and help. Two crawled
forward, and patted the mud in the bottom crevices. The fierce race with death called out every
man's reserves of body and soul.

Then, when the wall was breast high, some one heard a choking cry in the passage. Grant was
in the rear of the room, wrestling with a great rock, and did not hear the cry; but Chopini
was over the wall, and Dooley followed him, and Evans followed him in an instant. They disappeared
down the passage, and when Grant returned, carrying the huge rock to the speeding work at the
wall, he heard a voice outside call:

"We've got 'em."

And then, after a silence, as the workmen hurried with the wall, there came a call for help.
Williams and Dennis Hogan followed Grant through the hole now nearing the roof of the room,
out into the passage. The air was scorching. Some current was moving it rapidly. The second
party came upon the first struggling weakly with Dick Bowman and his son. Father and son were
unconscious and one of the rescuing party had fainted. Again the vise gripped Grant's abdomen,
and he put his face upon the damp earth and panted. Slowly the three men in the darkness bellied
along until they felt the wall, then in an agony of effort raised themselves and their burden.
Up the wall they climbed to their knees, to their feet, and met the hands of those inside who
took the burden from them. One, two, three whiffs of clean air as they stuck their heads in
the room, and they were gone--and another two men from the room followed them. They came upon
the first party working their gasping, fainting course back to the wall, with their load, rolling
a man before them. And they all pulled and tugged and pushed and some leaned heavily upon others
and all looked death squarely in the face and no man whimpered. The panic was gone; the divine
spark that rests in every human soul was burning, and life was little and cheap in their eyes,
compared with the chance they had to give it for others.

Flicks of fire were swirling down the passage, and the roar of the flames came nearer and Grant
fancied he could hear the crackle of it. Chopini was on his knees clutching at the crevices
in the wall; Hogan and Dooley dug with their hands into the chinks, then four men were on their
feet, with the burden, and in the blackness, hands within the wall reached out and took the
man from those outside. The hands reached out and felt other hands and pulled them up, and
five, six men stood upon their feet and were pulled, scrambling and trembling and reeling,
into the room. The blackness outside became a lurid glare. The flickering lamp inside showed
them that one man was outside. Grant Adams stood faint and trembling, leaning against a wall
of the room; the room and the men whirled about him and he grew sick at the stomach. But with
a powerful effort he gathered himself, and lunged to the hole in the rising wall. He was trying
to pull himself up when Dooley pulled him down, and went through the hole like a cat. Hogan
followed Dooley and Evans followed Hogan. "Here he is, right at the bottom," called Hogan,
and in an instant the feet of Casper Herdicker, then the sprawling legs, then the body and
then the head with the closed eyes and gaping mouth came in, and then three men slowly followed
him. Grant, revived by the water from the puddle under him, stood and saw the last man--Dennis
Hogan--crawl in. Then Grant, seeing Hogan's coat was afire, looked out and saw flames dancing
along the timbers, and a spark with a gust of smoke was sucked into the room by some eddy of
the current outside. In a last spurt of terrible effort the hole in the wall was closed and
plastered with mud and the men were sealed in their tomb.

It was but a matter of minutes before the furnace was raging outside. The men in the room could
hear it crackle and roar, and the mud in the chinks steamed. The men daubed the chinks again
and again.

As the fire roared outside, the men within the room fancied--and perhaps it was the sheer horror
of their situation that prompted their fancy--that they could hear the screams of men and mules
down the passage toward the main bottom. After an hour, when the roar ceased, they were in
a great silence. And as the day grew old and the silence grew deep and the immediate danger
past, they began to wait. As they waited they talked. At times they heard a roaring and a crash
and they knew that the timbers having burned away, the passages and courses were caving in.
By their watches they knew that the night was upon them. And they sat talking nervously through
the night, fearing to sleep, dreading what each moment might bring. Lamp after lamp burned
out in turn. And still they sat and talked. Here one would drowse--there another lose consciousness
and sink to the ground, but always men were talking. The talk never ceased. They were ashamed
to talk of women while they were facing death, so they kept upon the only other subjects that
will hold men long--God and politics. The talk droned on into morning, through the forenoon,
into the night, past midnight, with the thread taken from one man sinking to sleep by another
waking up, but it never stopped. The water that seeped into the puddle on the floor moistened
their lips as they talked. There was no food save in two lunch buckets that had been left in
the room by fleeing miners, and thus went the first day.

The second day the Welsh tried to sing--perhaps to stop the continual talk of the Irish. Then
the Italian sang something, Casper Herdicker sang the "Marseillaise" and the men clapped their
hands, in the twilight of the last flickering lamp that they had. After that Grant called the
roll at times and those who were awake felt of those who were asleep and answered for them,
and a second day wore into a third.

By the feeling of the stem of Grant Adams's watch as he wound it, he judged that they had lived
nearly four days in the tomb. Little Mugs Bowman was crying for food, and his father was trying
to comfort him, by giving him his shoe leather to chew. Others rolled and moaned in their sleep,
and the talk grew unstable and flighty.

Some one said, "Hear that?" and there was silence, and no one heard anything. Again the talk
began and droned unevenly along.

"Say, listen," some one else called beside the first man who had heard the sound.

Again they listened, and because they were nervous perhaps two or three men fancied they heard
something. But one said it was the roar of the fire, another said it was the sound of some
one calling, and the third said it was the crash of a rock in some distant passageway. The
talk did not rise again for a time, but finally it rose wearily, punctuated with sighs. Then
two men cried:

"Hear it! There it is again!"

And breathless they all sat, for a second. Then they heard a voice calling, "Hello--hello?"
And they tried to cheer.

But the voice did not sound again, and a long time passed. Grant tried to count the minutes
as they ticked off in his watch, but his mind would not remain fixed upon the ticking, so he
lost track of the time after three minutes had passed. And still the time dragged, the watch
kept ticking.

Then they heard the sound again, clearer; and again it called. Then Dick Bowman took up a pick,
called:

"Watch out, away from the wall, I'm going to make a hole."

He struck the wall and struck it again and again, until he made a hole and they cried through it:

"Hello--hello--We're here." And they all tried to get to the hole and jabber through it. Then
they could hear hurrying feet and voices calling, and confusion. The men called, and cried
and sobbed and cheered through the hole, and then they saw the gleam of a lantern. Then the
wall crumbled and they climbed into the passage. But they knew, who had heard the falling timbers
and the crashing rocks, for days, that they were not free.

The rescuers led the imprisoned miners down the dark passage; Grant Adams was the last man
to leave the prison. As he turned an angle of the passage, a great rock fell crashing before
him, and a head of dirt caught him and dragged him under. His legs and body were pinioned.
Dennis Hogan in front heard the crash, saw Grant fall, and stood back for a moment, as another
huge rock slid slowly down and came to rest above the prostrate man. For a second no one moved.
Then one man--Ira Dooley--slowly crept toward Grant and began digging with his hands at the
dirt around Grant's legs. Then Casper Herdicker and Chopini came to help. As they stood at
Grant's head, quick as a flash, the rock fell and the two men standing at Grant's head were
crushed like worms. The roof of the passage was working wickedly, and in the flickering light
of the lanterns they could see the walls shudder. Then Dick Bowman stepped out. He brought
a shovel from a room opening on the passage, and Evan Davis and Tom Williams and Jamey McPherson
with shovels began working over Grant, who lay white and frightened, watching the squirming
wall above and blowing the dropping dirt from his face as it fell.

"Mugs, come here," called Dick Bowman. "Take that shovel," commanded the father, "and hold
it over Grant's face to keep the dirt from smothering him." The boy looked in terror at the
roof dropping dirt and ready to fall, but the father glared at the son and he obeyed. No one
spoke, but four men worked--all that could stand about him. They dug out his body; they released
his legs, they freed his feet, and when he was free they helped him up and hurried him down
the passage which he had traversed four days ago. Before they turned into the main bottom room,
he was sick with the stench. And as he turned into that room, where the cage landed, he saw
by the lantern lights and by the flaring torches held by a dozen men, a great congregation
of the dead--some piled upon others, some in attitudes of prayer, some shielding their comrades
in death, some fleeing and stricken prone upon the floor, some sitting, looking the foe in
the face. Men were working with the bodies--trying to sort them into a kind of order; but the
work had just begun.

The weakened men, led by their rescuers, picked their way through the corpses and went to the
top in a cage. Far down in the shaft, the daylight cut them like a knife. And as they mounted
higher and higher, they could hear the murmur of voices above them, and Grant could hear the
sobs of women and children long before he reached the top. The word that men had been rescued
passed out of the shaft house before they could get out of the cage, and a great shout went up.

The men walked out of the shaft house and saw all about them, upon flat cars, upon the dump
near the shaft, upon buildings around the shaft house, a great crowd of cheering men and women,
pale, drawn, dreadful faces, illumined by eager eyes. Grant lifted his eyes to the crowd. There
in a carriage beside Henry Fenn, Grant saw Margaret staring at him, and saw her turn pale and
slide down into her husband's arms, as she recognized Grant's face among those who had come
out of death. Then he saw his father and little Kenyon in the crowd and he dashed through the
thick of it to them. There he held the boy high in the air, and cried as the little arms clung
about his neck.

The great hoarse whistles roared and the shrill siren whistles screamed and the car bells clanged
and the church bells rang. But they did not roar and scream and peal and toll for money and
wealth and power, but for life that was returned.

The town had met death. But no one even in that place of mourning could answer the question
that the child heard in the bells. And yet that divine spark of heroism that burns unseen in
every heart however high, however low--that must be the faltering, uncertain light which points
us to the truth across the veil through the mists made by our useless tears.

And thus a New Year in Harvey began its long trip around the sun, with its sorrows and its
joys, with its merry pantomime and its mutes mourning upon the hearse, with its freight of
cares and compensations and its sad ironies. So let us get on and ride and enjoy the journey.

CHAPTER XVII

A CHAPTER WHICH INTRODUCES SOME POSSIBLE GODS

When Grant Adams had told and retold his story to the reporters and had eaten what Dr. Nesbit
would let him eat, it was late in the afternoon. He lay down to sleep with the sun still shining
through the shutters in his low-ceiled, west bed room. Through the night his father sat or
slept fitfully beside him and when the morning sun was high, and still the young man slept
on, the father guarded him, and would let no one enter the house. At noon Grant rose and dressed.
He saw the Dexters coming down the road and he went to the door to welcome them. It seemed
at first that the stupor of sleep was not entirely out of his brain. He was silent and had
to be primed for details of his adventure. He sat down to eat, but when his meal was half finished,
there came bursting out of his soul a flame of emotion, and he put down his food, turned half
around from the table, grasped the edges of the board with both hands and cried as a fanatic
who sees a vision:

"Oh, those men,--those men--those wonderful, beautiful souls of men I saw!--those strong, fearless.
Godlike men!--there in the mine, I mean. Evan Davis, Dick Bowman, Pat McCann, Jamey McPherson,
Casper Herdicker, Chopini--all of them; yes, Dennis Hogan, drunk as he is sometimes, and Ira
Dooley, who's been in jail for hold-ups--I don't care which one--those wonderful men, who risked
their lives for others, and Casper Herdicker and Chopini, who gave their lives there under
the rock for me. My God, my God!"

His voice thrilled with emotion, and his arms trembled as his hands gripped the table. Those
who heard him did not stop him, for they felt that from some uncovered spring in his being
a section of personality was gushing forth that never had seen day. He turned quietly to the
wondering child, took him from his chair and hugged him closely to a man's broad chest and
stroked the boyish head as the man's blue eyes filled with tears. Grant sat for a moment looking
at the floor, then roughed his red mane with his fingers and said slowly and more quietly,
but contentiously:

"I know what you don't know with all your religion, Mr. Dexter; I know what the Holy Ghost
is now. I have seen it. The Holy Ghost is that divine spark in every human soul--however life
has smudged it over by circumstance--that rises and envelopes a human creature in a flame of
sacrificial love for his kind and makes him joy to die to save others. That's the Holy Ghost--that's
what is immortal."

He clenched his great hickory fist and hit the table and lifted his face again, crying: "I
saw Dennis Hogan walk up to Death smiling that Irish smile. I saw him standing with a ton of
loose dirt hanging over him while he was digging me out! I saw Evan Davis--little, bow-legged
Evan Davis--go out into the smoke alone--alone, Mr. Dexter, and they say Evan is a coward--he
went out alone and brought back Casper Herdicker's limp body hugged to his little Welsh breast
like a gorilla's--and saved a man. I saw Dick Bowman do more--when the dirt was dropping from
the slipping, working roof into my mouth and eyes, and might have come down in a slide--I lay
there and watched Dick working to save me and I heard him order his son to hold a shovel over
my face--his own boy." Grant shuddered and drew the child closer to him, and looked at the
group near him with wet eyes. "Ira Dooley and Tom Williams and that little Italian went on
their bellies, half dead from the smoke, out into death and brought home three men to safety,
and would have died without batting an eye--all three to save one lost man in that passage."
He beat the table again with his fist and cried wildly: "I tell you that's the Holy Ghost.
I know those men may sometimes trick the company if they can. I know Ira Dooley spends lots
of good money on 'the row'; I know Tom gambles off everything he can get his hands on, and
that the little Dago probably would have stuck a knife in an enemy over a quarter. But that
doesn't count."

The young man's voice rose again. "That is circumstance; much of it is surroundings, either
of birth or of this damned place where we are living. If they cheat the company, it is because
the company dares them to cheat and cheats them badly. If they steal, it is because they have
been taught to steal by the example of big, successful thieves. I've had time to think it all out.

"Father--father!" cried Grant, as a new wave of emotion surged in from the outer bourne of
his soul, "you once said Dick Bowman sold out the town and took money for voting for the Harvey
Improvement bond steal. But what if he did? That was merely circumstance. Dick is a little
man who has had to fight for money all his life--just enough money to feed his hungry children.
And here came an opportunity to get hold of--what was it?--a hundred dollars--" Amos Adams
nodded. "Well, then, a hundred dollars, and it would buy so much, and leading citizens came
and told him it was all right--men we have educated with our taxes and our surplus money in
universities and colleges. And we haven't educated Dick; we've just taught him to fight--to
fight for money, and to think money will do everything in God's beautiful world. So Dick took
it. That was the Dick that man and Harvey and America made, father, but I saw the Dick that
God made!" He stopped and cried out passionately, "And some day, some day all the world must
know this man--this great-souled, common American--that God made!"

Grant's voice was low, but a thousand impulses struggled across his features for voice and
his eyes were infinitely sad as he gazed at the curly, brown hair of the child in his arms
playing with the buttons on his coat.

The minister looked at his wife. She was wet-faced and a-tremble, and had her hands over her
eyes. Amos Adams's old, frank face was troubled. The son turned upon him and cried:

"Father--you're right when you say character makes happiness. But what do you call it--surroundings--where
you live and how you live and what you do for a living--environment! That's it, that's the
word--environment has lots and lots to do with character. Let the company reduce its dividends
by giving the men a chance at decent living conditions, in decent houses and decent streets,
and you'll have another sort of attitude toward the company. Quit cheating them at the store,
and you'll have more honesty in the mines; quit sprinkling sour beer and whiskey on the sawdust
in front of the saloons to coax men in who have an appetite, and you'll have less drinking--but,
of course, Sands will have less rents. Let the company obey the law--the company run by men
who are pointed out as examples, and there'll be less lawlessness among the men when trouble
comes. Why, Mr. Dexter, do you know as we sat down there in the dark, we counted up five laws
which the company broke, any one of which would have prevented the fire, and would have saved
ninety lives. Trash in the passage leading to the main shaft delayed notifying the men five
minutes--that's against the law. Torches leaking in the passageway where there should have
been electric lights--that's against the law. Boys--little ten-year-olds working down there--cheap,
cheap!" he cried, "and dumping that pine lumber under a dripping torch--that's against the
law. Having no fire drill, and rusty water plugs and hose that doesn't reach--that's against
the law. A pine partition in an air-chute using it as a shaft--that's against the law. Yet
when trouble comes and these men burn and kill and plunder--we'll put the miners in jail, and
maybe hang them, for doing as they are taught a thousand times a week by the company--risking
life for their own gain!"

Grant Adams rose. He ran his great, strong, copper-freckled hands through his fiery hair and
stood with face transfigured, as the face of one staring at some phantasm. "Oh, those men--they
risked their lives--Chopini and Casper Herdicker gave their lives for me. Father," he cried,
"I am bought with a price. These men risked all and gave all for me. I am theirs. I have no
other right to live except as I serve them." He drew a deep breath; set his jaw and spoke with
all the force he could put into a quiet voice: "I am dedicated to men--to those great-souled,
brave, kind men whom God has sent here for man to dwarf and ruin. They have bought me. I am
theirs."

The minister put the question in their minds:

"What are you going to do, Grant?"

The fervor that had been dying down returned to Grant Adams's face.

"My job," he cried, "is so big I don't know where to take hold. But I'm not going to bother
to tell those men who sweat and stink and suffer under the injustices of men, about the justice
of God. I've got one thing in me bigger'n a wolf--it's this: House them--feed them, clothe
them, work them--these working people--and pay them as you people of the middle classes are
housed and fed and paid and clad, and crime won't be the recreation of poverty. And the Lord
knows the work of the men who toil with their hands is just as valuable to society as preaching
and trading and buying and selling and banking and editing and lawing and doctoring, and insuring
and school teaching."

He stood before the kitchen stove, a tall, awkward, bony, wide-shouldered, loose-wired creature
in the first raw stage of full-blown manhood. The red muscles of his jaw worked as his emotions
rose in him. His hands were the hands of a fanatic--never still.

"I've been down into death and I've found something about life," he went on. "Out of the world's
gross earnings we're paying too much for superintendence, and rent and machines, and not enough
for labor. There's got to be a new shake-up. And I'm going to help. I don't know where nor
how to begin, but some way I'll find a hold and I'm going to take it."

He drew in a long breath, looked around and smiled rather a ragged, ugly smile that showed
his big teeth, all white and strong but uneven.

"Well, Grant," said Mrs. Dexter, "you have cut out a big job for yourself." The young man nodded
soberly.

"Well, we're going to organize 'em, the first thing. We talked that over in the mine when we
had nothing else to talk about--but God and our babies."

In the silence that followed, Amos Adams said: "While you were down there of course I had to
do something. So after the paper was out, I got to talking with Lincoln about things. He said
you'd get out. Though," smiled the old man sheepishly and wagged his beard, "Darwin didn't
think you would. But anyway, they all agreed we should do something for the widows."

"They have a subscription paper at George Brotherton's store--you know, Grant," said Mr. Dexter.

"Well--we ought to put in something, father,--all we've got, don't you think?"

"I tried and tried to get her last night to know how she felt about it," mused Amos. "I've
borrowed all I can on the office--and it wouldn't sell for its debts."

"You ought to keep your home, I think," put in Mrs. Dexter quickly, who had her husband's approving
nod.

"They told me," said the father, "that Mary didn't feel that way about it. I couldn't get her.
But that was the word she sent."

"Father," said Grant with the glow in his face that had died for a minute, "let's take the
chance. Let's check it up to God good and hard. Let's sell the house and give it all to those
who have lost more than we. We can earn the rent, anyway."

Mrs. Dexter looked significantly at Kenyon.

"No, that shouldn't count, either," said Grant stubbornly. "Dick Bowman didn't let his boy
count when I needed help, and when hundreds of orphaned boys and girls and widows need our
help, we shouldn't hold back for Kenyon."

"Grant," said the father when the visit was ended and the two were alone, "they say your father
has no sense--up town. Maybe I haven't. I commune with these great minds; maybe they too are
shadows. But they come from outside of me." He ran his fingers through his graying beard and
smiled. "Mr. Left brings me things that are deeper and wiser than the things I know--it seems
to me. But they all bear one testimony, Grant; they all tell me that it's the spiritual things
and not the material things in this world that count in the long run, and, Grant, boy," the
father reached for his son's strong hand, "I would rather have seen the son that has come back
to me from death, go back to death now, if otherwise I never could have seen him. They told
me your mother was with you. And now I know some way she touched your heart out there in the
dark--O Grant, boy, while you spoke I saw her in your face--in your face I saw her. Mary--Mary,"
cried the weeping old man, "when you sent me back to the war you looked as he looked to-day,
and talked so."

"Father," said Grant, "I don't know about your Mr. Left. He doesn't interest me, as he does
you, and as for the others--they may be true or all a mockery, for anything I know. But," he
exclaimed, "I've seen God face to face and I can't rest until I've given all I am--everything--everything
to help those men!"

