 I made an effort, therefore, with the seventh person.

"I put in 'The Charge of the Uhlans,'" I said, "and it played 'God Save the King.'"

Unfortunately he was a very patriotic man indeed, and he believed it. So that is how the story
is now going about. But you who read this know the real truth of the matter.

A. A. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things worth waiting for.

    "Other pictures are announced, among them 'Trilby,' with Sir
    H. Beerbohm Tree in the title-rôle."--Blackheath Local
    Guide.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUTH ABOUT ----.

FACSIMILE SKETCHES BY OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT AT ----.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the Memory of Field-Marshal Earl Roberts of Kandahar and Pretoria.

BORN, 1832.    DIED, ON SERVICE AT THE FRONT, NOV. 14TH, 1914.

  He died, as soldiers die, amid the strife,
    Mindful of England in his latest prayer;
  God, of His love, would have so fair a life
          Crowned with a death as fair.

  He might not lead the battle as of old,
    But, as of old, among his own he went,
  Breathing a faith that never once grew cold,
          A courage still unspent.

  So was his end; and, in that hour, across
    The face of War a wind of silence blew,
  And bitterest foes paid tribute to the loss
          Of a great heart and true.

  But we who loved him, what have we to lay
    For sign of worship on his warrior-bier?
  What homage, could his lips but speak to-day,
          Would he have held most dear?

  That oath we plight, as now the trumpets swell
    His requiem, and the men-at-arms stand mute,
  And through the mist the guns he loved so well
          Thunder a last salute! Just now we are thinking in
millions. Suppose it's somewhere about the same thing. Anyhow PREMIER
to-day announced with pardonable pride that we are spending a trifle
under a million a day in the war forced upon mankind by the Man
Forsworn. To meet necessities of case he asked for further Vote of
Credit for 225 millions and an addition of a million men to Regular
Army.

Here was a chance for a great speech. Never before had English Minister submitted such stupendous
propositions. Some of us remember how, thirty-six years ago, DIZZY, by way of threat to Russia,
then at war with Turkey, created profound sensation in town and country by asking for Vote
of Credit for six millions. At close of Boer War HICKS-BEACH, then Chancellor of Exchequer,
launched a War Loan of 30 millions. 'Twas thought at the time that we were going it, taking
a long stride towards national Bankruptcy Court. Now it is 225 millions in supplement of a
hundred millions voted in August. Moreover, the two together do not carry us further than end
of financial year, 31st of March. Then we shall begin again with another trifle of same dimensions
or probably increased.

How Mr. G., had he still been with us, would have revelled in opportunity for delivering an
oration planned to scale! How his eloquence would have glowed over these fantastic figures!
HERBERT HENRY ASQUITH (had he been consulted at the font, he would certainly have objected
to useless waste of time involved in a second baptismal name) spoke for less than quarter of
an hour, submitting proposals in baldest, most business-like fashion. He wanted the men and
he wanted the money too. Fewer words spoken the sooner he would get them. So, avoiding tropes
and flights of eloquence, he just stood at Table, a sort of humanized ledger, briefly set forth
items of his account, totalled them up and sat down.

WALTER LONG, following, voiced general dislike for prohibition that keeps War Correspondents
out of fighting line in Flanders. Deprecated risk of circulating information useful to the
enemy, but insisted, amid cheers from both sides, that there might be published letters from
the front free from such danger "that would bring comfort and solace to the people and would
do more to attract recruits than bands and flag-parading throughout the country."

Speaking later in reply, Mr. Spenlow ASQUITH, while sympathising with WALTER LONG'S desire,
explained that state of things complained of is entirely due to Monsieur Jorkins Poincaré.

"We are not free agents in this matter," he said. "We must regulate our proceedings by the
proceedings of our Allies."

Business done.--Vote of Credit for 225 million and authority to raise another million men for
Army agreed to without dissent.

Tuesday.--Lords and Commons united in paying tribute to the life, lamenting the death, of Lord
ROBERTS--"BOBS," beloved of the Army, revered in India, mourned throughout the wide range of
Empire. Even in Germany, where hatred of all that is English has become a monomania, exception
is made in his favour. "There are moments," writes a sportsman in the German Press, "when the
warrior salutes the enemy with his sword instead of striking with it. Such a moment came with
the death of Lord Roberts."

Speeches in both Houses worthy of the occasion. Brief, simple, genuine in emotion, they were
well attuned to the theme. One of the happiest things said was uttered by BONAR LAW: "In his
simplicity, in his modesty, in his high-minded uprightness, and in his stern detestation of
everything mean and base, Lord ROBERTS was in real life all, and more than all, that Colonel
Newcome was in fiction."

PREMIER proposed that on Monday House shall authorise erection of monument at the public charge
to the memory of the Great Soldier. When motion formally put from Chair heads were bared in
farewell salute of the warrior taking his rest.

Not the least touching note of eloquence was supplied during proceedings in House of Lords.
It was the empty seat at the corner of the Front Cross Bench where on rare occasions stood
the lithe erect figure, in stature not quite so high as NAPOLEON, modestly offering words of
counsel.

Business done.--CHANCELLOR OF EXCHEQUER, presenting himself to favourable consideration of
crowded House in homely character of coalheaver filling bunkers of a battleship, introduced
second Budget of the year. Upon consideration House comes to conclusion that one is quite enough,
thank you. Proposals in Supplementary Budget are what Dominic Sampson might, with more than
customary appropriateness and emphasis, describe as "Prodigious!" Faced by deficiency of something
over three-hundred-and-thirty-nine-and-a-half millions, CHANCELLOR launches War Loan of two
hundred and thirty millions and levies additional fifteen-and-a-half millions in taxation.

Items: Income Tax doubled; threepence a pound added to tea; a halfpenny clapped on price of
every modest half-pint of beer consumed.

Wednesday.--Monotony of truce in respect of Party politics varied by wholesome heartening game.
It consists of hunting down the German spies and chivying the HOME SECRETARY. Played in both
Houses to-night. In the Lords HALSBURY attempted to make Lord CHANCELLOR'S flesh creep by disclosure
of existence of "ingenious system of correspondence" carried on between alien spies and their
paymaster in Berlin. HALDANE replied that the matter had been closely investigated; turned
out there was "nothing in it." CRAWFORD fared no better. Imperturbable LORD CHANCELLOR assured
House that the military and civil authorities in Scotland were cognisant of rumours reported
by noble Lord. Every case that seemed to warrant investigation had been looked into. Was found
that many were based on hearsay. Impossible to find evidence to establish charges made.

Nevertheless, LONDONDERRY, having dispassionately thought the matter over, came to conclusion
that conduct of HOME SECRETARY was "contemptible."

This opinion, phrased in differing form, shared on Opposition Benches in Commons. PREMIER explained
that business of dealing with aliens is not concentrated in Home Office; is shared with the
War Office and the Admiralty. Of late, on suggestion of Committee of Imperial Defence, there
has been established at War Office an Intelligence Department in correspondence with the Admiralty
and assured of assistance of the Home Office wherever necessary.

That all very well. Hon. Members and noble Lords in Opposition not to be disturbed in their
honest conviction that MCKENNA is at the bottom of the bad business.

Business done.--On suggestion of BONAR LAW and on motion of PREMIER Select Committee appointed
to consider scheme of pensions and grants for men wounded in the war, and for the widows and
orphans of those who have lost their lives.

Friday.--Like MARLBROOK, WEDGWOOD BENN s'en va-t-en guerre. Has sallied out with a troop of
Middlesex Hussars to "join our army in Flanders," where, according to contemporary testimony,
once upon a time it "swore terribly." His Parliamentary services, supplemented by the Chairmanship
of Committee controlling disposition of National Relief Fund, might seem sufficient to keep
him at home. But valour, like murder, will out. So, as old John Willett, landlord of the Maypole
Inn, Chigwell, used to say when asked of the whereabouts of his son, "he has gone to the Salwanners,
where the war is," carrying with him the good wishes of all sections of House and an exceptionally
full knowledge of the intricacies of the Insurance Act.

Many gaps on Benches on both sides. SARK tells me there are seven-score Members on active service
at the Front. One of the first to go was SEELY, at brief interval stepping from position of
Head of British Army to that of a unit in its ranks.

News of him came the other day from Private JAMES WHITE, of the Inniskilling Fusiliers, now
in hospital at Belfast. Wounded by fragments of a shell, WHITE lay for an hour where he fell.
Then he felt a friendly hand on his shoulder and a cheery voice asked how he was getting on.

It was Colonel SEELY bending over him, regardless of heavy shell fire directed on the spot
by German batteries. He gave the wounded Fusilier a cigarette, helped him to get up and assisted
him to his motor-car, in which he had all day been engaged in conveying wounded to French hospital
in the rear.

"He is the bravest man I ever met," said Private JAMES WHITE. "He was as cool as the morning
under fire, cheering us all up with smiles and little jokes."

Business done:--Report of Supply.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A RECRUITING BALLAD.

    [Recruiting in country districts is languishing because the
    folk hear nothing of their regiments, and local attachment is
    very strong. Unfortunately this ballad had to be founded on
    material supplied by the C----r. However, the permitted
    references to Germans ought at any rate to convince the public
    that the ballad has no connection whatever with the late Boer
    War.]

  This is the tale of the Blankshires bold, the famous charge they
          made;
  This is the tale of the deeds they did whose glory never will fade;
  They only numbered X hundred men and the German were thousands
          (Y),
  Yet on the battlefield of Z they made the foeman fly.

  Calm and cool on the field they stood (near a town--I can't say
          where);
  Some of them hugged their rifles close but none of them turned a
          hair;
  The Colonel (I must suppress his name) looked out on the stubborn
          foe,
  And said, "My lads, we must drive them hence, else A + B will
          go."

  Then each man looked in his neighbour's face and laughed with sudden
          glee
  (The Briton fights his very best for algebra's formulæ);
  The hostile guns barked loud and sharp (their number I cannot
          give),
  And no one deemed the Blankety Blanks could face that fire and
          live.

  For Colonel O. was struck by a shell and wounded was Major Q.,
  And half a hostile army corps came suddenly into view;
  And hidden guns spat death at them and airmen hovered to kill,
  But the Blankety Blanks just opened their ranks and charged an
          (unnamed) hill.

  Half of their number fell on the hill ere they reached the German
          trench;
  Général J---- cried out: "Très bon"; "Not half," said Marshal
          F----;
  An angry Emperor shook his fist and at his legions raved,
  And then (the C----r lets me say) the cheery Blankshires shaved.

  Rally, O rally, ye Blankshire men, rally to fill the gaps;
  Seek victories (all unknown to us), bear (well-suppressed) mishaps;
  And when you've made a gallant charge and pierced the angry foe
  Your names won't get to your people at home, but BUCKMASTER will
          know.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR NATIONAL GUESTS.

II.

The truth is that the Belgians in Crashie Howe are enjoying a succès fou. There is the enterprising
Marie, who thinks nothing of going off on her own, on the strength of an English vocabulary
only a fortnight old, overwhelming the stationmaster and boarding an ambulance train full of
wounded Belgians at the local station to ask for news of her brothers. (We were all delighted
when an adventurous letter miraculously arrived from the Pas de Calais on Saturday and reported
that both brothers were well and unwounded.) There is Victor, who, although only thirteen,
is already a pupille d'armée and has a uniform quite as good as any fighting man. I can tell
you he has put our Boy Scouts in the shade. But Victor is afraid the war will be over before
he is old enough to get at it.

Then, again, there is the small Juliette, who is dark, with a comfortable little face constructed
almost entirely of dimples, and, at the age of eight, has been discovered knitting stockings
at a prodigious pace while she looked the other way. I am afraid Juliette is being held up
as an example to other children of the neighbourhood, but I think her great popularity may
well survive even that. And there is Louis, who is a marvel at making bird-cages, and Rosalie,
whose pride is in the shine of her pots and pans. They are all doing well.

Rosalie, it is true, has had a fearful bout of toothache, so bad that she had to retire to
bed for a day. When Dr. Anderson, whose French is very good, had successfully diagnosed the
trouble and told her that the only cure was to have the tooth out, she plaintively replied
that she had thought of that herself, but, alas, it was impossible, for "it was too firmly
implanted." For my part I sympathised with Rosalie--I have often felt like that.

The grandmother rather likes to sit apart, beaming, far from the general throng, and it was
for that reason that I selected her at the very outset to practise on in private. I tried her
more than once in my sadly broken French; I even went further and tried her in rapidly-improvised
Flemish. Whenever I felt I was at my best I used to go and have a turn at her, and, although
she smiled at me like anything and was awfully pleased, I never elicited the slightest response.
Now I know that she is almost stone deaf and hasn't heard a word I have said. As I came sadly
away after this discovery there occurred to my mind the story of him who undertook to train
a savage in the arts of civilization, only to learn, after some years of disappointing, unrequited
toil, that his victim was not only a savage but also a lunatic. I don't mean that to be disrespectful
to Grandmère--it is only a parallel instance of good work thrown away.

We are learning a good deal that is new about the art of knitting. One thing is that the Flemish
knitter cannot get on at all comfortably unless the needles are long enough to tuck under her
arms. I may safely say that I never dreamt of that. At first they fumbled about unhappily with
our miserable little needles, but the ship's carpenter--who makes the bird-cages--has found
quite an ingenious way out. He has mounted all the needles at the end of a sort of stilt or
leg of cane (like a bayonet), and since this innovation they are working at a speed which,
even in these days of universal knitting, would be pretty hard to beat.

The children are really getting on famously at school. A very touching little romance was enacted
there one day. Eugène and Pierre, belonging to different families, arrived in our midst on
different days and did not chance to meet each other at first. At school they happened to be
put, away from their compatriots, in the same room. Eugène is eight and Pierre seven. It was,
you may well guess, pretty lonely work for a small Belgian in a roomful of Scotch boys, but
both bore up bravely. The subject, as I understand, was simple addition (which knows no frontiers
and looks the same in any language), and there is no whispering or secret conversation in our
school, I can tell you. There they sat side by side for two hours, each contemplating the other
as an alien, each smothering pent-up feelings of home-sickness. And then suddenly, at a single
Flemish word from the schoolmaster, the moment of revelation came; it dawned on both of them
at once that they were not alone, and, rising to their feet, they embraced with tears of joy.

"Broeder!" cried Eugène.

"Broeder!" echoed Pierre.

That was nearly a week ago. By now Pierre is beginning to treat Eugène in a slightly off-hand
manner. He has hardly time for him. He has so many Scotch friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "During the night a terrific gale raged in Manchester and
    surrounding districts, hail and sleet being accompanied by a
    torrential rainfall varied by Pendleton, Eccles, Seedley and
    other lightning."--People.

"Eccles lightning is the best."--(Advt.).

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IMMORTAL LEGEND.

In the House of Commons on November 18, Mr. KING asked the UNDER-SECRETARY FOR WAR whether
he could state, without injury to the military interests of the Allies, whether any Russian
troops had been conveyed through Great Britain to the Western area of the European War.

The firm and faithful believers in this beautiful tale are not to be put off so easily as that,
and there are so many thousands of faces to be saved, and such numbers of ear- (if not eye-)
witnesses of the undying exploit, that we really must see if there is not after all some loophole
in the official pronouncement. Let us pause for further scrutiny and meditations.

Why, of course, here it is. The UNDER-SECRETARY merely states his imperfect knowledge of the
bias of Mr. KING. He does not know whether his questioner is one of the ardent souls who are
ready to pass along and adorn the latest legend from the Clubs, or a cold-blooded sceptic fit
only to be a Censor.

No, we are not to be done out of our Russians by any mere UNDER-SECRETARY FOR WAR; certainly
not one who is capable of such prevarication. And anyhow, why should the Germans do all the
story-telling?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WILD AND WOOLLY WEST END.

    "A PROTEST.--Is there any reason why the War should be made an
    excuse for the abandonment of the niceties of life? Dining at
    a West-End restaurant nowadays one might well imagine oneself
    in America, from the variety and incongruity of the dress of
    the male patrons."--Advt. in "The Times."

We fear that the protest is only too well justified. Indeed, much more might be revealed were
it not for the heavy hand of the C----r. Our special representative reports:--

To the O.C., Punch Battalion, Bouverie Brigade, Fleet Division, E.C., of London Reserves.

