Now a more important contest was to come,--rousing interest not only in the herd, but in exquisites;
during this contest young patricians made enormous bets at times, often losing all they owned.
Straightway from hand to hand went tablets on which were written names of favorites, and also
the number of sestertia which each man wagered on his favorite. "Spectati"--that is, champions
who had appeared already on the arena and gained victories--found most partisans; but among
betters were also those who risked considerably on gladiators who were new and quite unknown,
hoping to win immense sums should these conquer. Cæsar himself bet; priests, vestals, senators,
knights bet; the populace bet. People of the crowd, when money failed them, bet their own freedom
frequently. They waited with heart-beating and even with fear for the combatants, and more
than one made audible vows to the gods to gain their protection for a favorite.

In fact, when the shrill sound of trumpets was heard, there was a stillness of expectation
in the amphitheatre. Thousands of eyes were turned to the great bolts, which a man approached
dressed like Charon, and amid the universal silence struck three times with a hammer, as if
summoning to death those who were hidden behind them. Then both halves of the gate opened slowly,
showing a black gully, out of which gladiators began to appear in the bright arena. They came
in divisions of twenty-five, Thracians, Mirmillons, Samnites, Gauls, each nation separately,
all heavily armed; and last the retiarii, holding in one hand a net, in the other a trident.
At sight of them, here and there on the benches rose applause, which soon turned into one immense
and unbroken storm. From above to below were seen excited faces, clapping hands, and open mouths,
from which shouts burst forth. The gladiators encircled the whole arena with even and springy
tread, gleaming with their weapons and rich outfit; they halted before Cæsar's podium, proud,
calm, and brilliant. The shrill sound of a horn stopped the applause; the combatants stretched
their right hands upward, raised their eyes and heads toward Cæsar, and began to cry or rather
to chant with drawling voice,--

"Ave, Cæsar imperator! Morituri te salutant!"

Then they pushed apart quickly, occupying their places on the arena. They were to attack one
another in whole detachments; but first it was permitted the most famous fencers to have a
series of single combats, in which the strength, dexterity, and courage of opponents were best
exhibited. In fact, from among the Gauls appeared a champion, well known to lovers of the amphitheatre
under the name of Lanio, a victor in many games. With a great helmet on his head, and in mail
which formed a ridge in front of his powerful breast and behind, he looked in the gleam of
the golden arena like a giant beetle. The no less famous retiarius Calendio came out against him.

Among the spectators people began to bet.

"Five hundred sestertia on the Gaul!"

"Five hundred on Calendio!"

"By Hercules, one thousand!"

"Two thousand!"

Meanwhile the Gaul, reaching the centre of the arena, began to withdraw with pointed sword,
and, lowering his head, watched his opponent carefully through the opening of his visor; the
light retiarius, stately, statuesque, wholly naked save a belt around his loins, circled quickly
about his heavy antagonist, waving the net with graceful movement, lowering or raising his
trident, and singing the usual song of the retiarius,--

"Non te peto, piscem peto; Quid me fugis, Galle?"

["I seek not thee, I seek a fish; Why flee from me O Gaul?"]

