Blue flags can be inserted in the original thirty combinations in the following manner: 1[2],
12[3], 1[23], 123[4], 12[34], 1[2]3[4], 1[23]4, 1[234], 23[5], 2[35], 234[5], 23[4]5, 2[3]45,
2[3]4[5], 2[34]5, 23[45], 2[345], and so on.

Among the many recollections that throng my memory in connection with this subject, is that
of an incident which has caused me many a hearty laugh since its occurrence, although at the
time I did not feel particularly amused. Harry had gone away visiting, giving me no definite
idea of when he would return. So, one drizzling, uncomfortable day, as I was sitting rather
disconsolate at my barn window, I was delighted to see several flags appear on his barn.

Eagerly I read:

1 3 4. "Can you go a-fishing?"

The fine drizzling rain was changing into larger drops, and there was every reasonable prospect
of a very wet day, and I thought he must be joking; but I answered:

"When?"

"Now," was the reply.

"Where?" I asked.

"Bixbee's pond."

"Are you in earnest?"

"I will meet you there."

I answered "Yes," and, shouldering my fish-pole, started off across-lots. The distance was
fully a mile and a half, and before I had passed over a quarter of the distance the bushes,
dripping with rain, had completely drenched me. When nearly there the increasing rain became
a heavy shower; but I kept on. I reached the pond, but nothing was to be seen of Harry. Not
a frog could I find for bait, owing to the incessantly pouring rain, and I knew it would be
difficult to find a worm. So, after half an hour of tedious waiting and monotonous soaking,
I started for Harry's, my patience entirely worn out.

The rain came down in torrents as, at length, I turned in at the gate; and I suppose I looked
as forlorn as a drenched rooster, for I heard a girlish giggle as I stepped upon the piazza,
but I did not then suspect the truth.

"Where's Harry?" I asked of his mother whom I found alone.

"Why, you didn't expect to find him at home, did you? He won't be back for a number of days yet."

(Another subdued giggle from the next room.)

"You're as wet as a drowned rat!" went on the motherly woman. "What on earth started you out
in this rain?"

"It's that Hattie's work!" I burst out angrily, and told her the whole story.

"Dear me!" she exclaimed, holding up her hands, despairingly, "I never did see such a torment
as that girl is! I noticed she has seemed very much tickled over something! I'll give her a
real scolding!"

I darted out the door; and, as I splashed my way disconsolately down to the road, I heard a
voice, struggling between repentance and a desire to laugh, call after me:

"Forgive me, Charlie, but it was such a joke!"

Hattie never meddled with her brother's signals again. For her mother's displeasure and the
severe cold that followed my drenching more than balanced the enjoyment she derived from that
very practical joke.

                    *       *       *       *       *

Two years ago I visited my native town. Resuming my old place by the barn window, I gazed across
the intervening forest to where Harry used to stand and signal to me. Tacked up against the
window-sill was my old "signal code," covered with dust and cobwebs. Harry was hundreds of
miles away, carving himself a name among his fellow-men. Of all the friends of former days,
scarcely one remained in the old town. And I could only wish, with all my heart, that I were
once again enjoying my boyhood's happy hours.

-----

  [B] If the buildings should be painted, the flags should
      be of a color that would contrast with that of the paint.

JENNIE FINDS OUT HOW DISHES ARE MADE.

Ah! I know something! I know something you girls don't know! I know how they make dishes what
you eat off of; and it's just the same way they make dolly's dishes, I guess.

Yes, I do know. And I've got some pictures papa drawed for me, too, and I'll tell you all about
them. They're in my pocket right under my handkerchief. I put them under my handkerchief because
I don't want them to get dirty. I've got some 'lasses candy on top. I haven't got enough, or
I'd give you all some.

Papa took me to a pottery. I don't know why they call it a pottery, for they make cups and
saucers, and sugar-bowls, and everything. First the man took us through the dressing-room.
I did not see any dresses, nor anybody dressing themselves. I only saw piles of dishes and
men and women hammering at them. I asked papa why they called it that, and he said, wait till
we come back, for that was the very last of all. So we went on into the yard. I looked into
one part of the building where it was all dark, with three great chimneys, broad on the ground
and narrow high up. But the man and papa went right on, round to the other side of the building.

There wasn't anything to see, though, but horses and carts hauling clay, and great heaps of
it on the ground. I wouldn't have called it anything but dirt, but papa said it was kaolin,
not exactly dirt, but clay. He spelt it for me.

There was another of those big chimneys in the yard, only bigger. The man said that was where
they dried the clay. Then he led us to a little door in the side of the house, and we went
in. That brought us into a little room where they were getting the clay ready.

First there was a sand-screen--like Mike uses, where they sieved it. Next they weighed it and
put it into bins. It looked like fine, dark flour.

A little piece off from the bins there was a big deep box. They were mixing clay and water
in it, and making a paste. It looked like lime when they're making mortar. The box leaked awfully,
and white paste was running down on the floor.

At the end of the box they had a pump working, and it was pumping the paste into what they
called a press. It was too funny for anything. I couldn't more than half understand it. But
it looks something like a baby-crib, only it has slats across the top, and they're close together.
They have a lot of bags inbetween the slats, and the clay gets into the bags and gets pressed
flat, so that most of the water is squeezed out. When they take it out of the bags it looks
something like a sheet of shortcake before it's cut or baked. Then they roll a lot of them
together, and that's what they make dishes out of. They call it biscuit.

The man took us down into the cellar under the little room to show us the engine that made
the paste and pumped and pressed the clay. I was afraid, and didn't want to go down, but papa
said it was only a little one. It was nice and clean down there, with a neat brick floor, but
awful hot. I was glad to come up.

After the little room there's one big room where they don't do much of anything. It is like
a large shed, for it is dark and has no floor. The dressing-room where we were first is on
one side, and the dark room where the big chimneys are, is back of it. We went through it,
and over to one side and up the stairs to the second story.

It's nice up there. It's one great big room, five times as big as our Sunday School room, with
ever so many windows. All around the sides and down the middle, and cross-ways, and out in
the wings are shelves, piled full of brand-new dishes. And there are tables all along the walls,
and that's where they make them. I could stand and look all day.

I saw two boys throwing up a great big lump of clay and catching it; then cutting it with a
string and putting the pieces together again, then throwing it up again, until it made me dizzy
to look at them. I asked the man what they were doing, and he said, wedging the clay. That
means taking the air out. They keep on doing that until there are no air-bubbles in it.

We stopped and talked to a man who was making a sugar-bowl, and he told us how he did it. All
the men have on the table in front of them a lump of clay, a wheel, some moulds, a sharp knife,
a bucket of water with a sponge in it, and something like the slab of a round, marble-topped
table, only it's made of plaster Paris, to work on.

And do you know what the potter's-wheel is? It's as old as the hills and it's in the Bible,
but I guess everybody don't know what it is. It looks as if it was made of hard, smooth, baked
white clay, and is something like a grindstone, only not half as thick. The grindstone stands
up, but this lays flat, with its round side turned up, like the head of a barrel. And it's
set on a pivot, like the needle of the compass in our geographies.

The moulds are like Miss Fanny's wax-fruit moulds. They're made of plaster Paris, and they're
round outside, and they have the shape of what the man wants to make on the inside, and they're
in two pieces. Little things like cups are made in one mould; but big things like pitchers
are made in two or three pieces, in two or three moulds, and then put together. Handles and
spouts and such things are made separately in little moulds and put on afterwards.

Here's the way. First the man cuts off a piece of the biscuit, and kneads it on the plaster
Paris slab. Then he takes one piece of the mould, fixes the clay in nicely, shaves off what
he don't want, then puts on the other piece of the mould, and sets it on the wheel. He gives
it a shove and sets it spinning. It stops itself after a while, then he opens the mould, and
there is the dish. The clay keeps the same thickness all through, and fills both pieces of
the mould.

Then the man takes it out and sponges it. If it isn't just the right shape all he has to do
is wet it, and it will come right. Then he puts on the handle or puts the pieces together,
fixing them just so with his fingers and knife. It isn't very hard, but he has to be careful.
The soft dishes look real cute. Then they're ready to be burnt the first time.

We walked all around and saw here one man making cups, another, tureens, another, bird-baths,
and every imaginable thing that is ever made in porcelain. Then we went down-stairs, through
the dark rooms, into where the tall chimneys are. Then I found out they called them kilns.
They have at the bottom a prodigious furnace, over that a tremendous oven, where they put the
dishes in to bake.

But they don't put them right in just as they are. Oh, no. There were on the high shelves all
around, a lot of things called saggers. They look something like bandboxes made of firebrick.
The soft dishes are put in them, the lids are put on, and then they are piled up in the oven.
Then the men build a big fire in the furnace, and let it burn for several days. When it goes
out they let several more days go by for the kiln to cool, and then take out the saggers. When
the dishes are taken out they are hard and rough and of a yellowish white. They build the fire
after they get them in, and let it out and the kiln cool off before they take them out, because
the men have to go in and out the big ovens.

Wouldn't you think a pile of soft plates and saucers would burn all together and stick fast
to each other? Well, they don't. There are little things made of hard clay with three bars
and three feet, and they put them in between dishes so that one plate has one in it, and the
next plate sets on top of that, so that they can't stick together. Did you ever see three little
dark spots on the bottom of a saucer? This is what makes them. There are lots and lots of these
little stands lying all around everywhere, and broken pieces of them and the clay, scattered
like flour all over the ground and floors thick.

We next went into the room back of the kilns. It had shelves all around, too, and there were
piles of dishes after the first burning. A lot of women sat on stools on the floor and they
were brushing the fire cracks with some stuff out of little bottles. This was to fill them
up so that the glazing wouldn't run in.

We went into another room at one side of the first and there's where they did the glazing.
They called it dipping. There was a large tank in the middle of the room with a deep red liquid
in it. Papa asked the man what it was, and he said it was a secret preparation. The men dipped
the dishes in, and they came out a beautiful pink, so pretty that it seemed a pity they couldn't
stay so. There were shelves all around this room, too, and there the dishes look like they
do when we see them--the pink glazing has turned white.

There is nothing more done to them except the dressing. We had now gone all around, and were
almost at the dressing-room where we started. And when we went in again we found that the dressing
was nothing but knocking off any rough lumps with a chisel. I remember every bit of it. And
every time I look at dishes I think there are ever so many things we use every day and don't
know anything about.

ARCHERY FOR BOYS.

Mr. Maurice Thompson has excited all the grown-up boys who loved in their younger days to draw
the bow, by his graceful articles on archery for young men and women.

I want to tell the boys who are wide awake how they may, without too much labor and with but
little expense, make their own bows and arrows and targets, having their fun, like their elders,
in this health-giving and graceful recreation.

In the first place, after you have made your implements for the sport, you must never shoot
at or towards anyone; nor must you ever shoot directly upwards. In the one case you may maim
some one for life, and in the other you may put out your own eye as an acquaintance of the
writer's once did in Virginia.

To make a bow take a piece of any tough, elastic wood, as cedar, ash, sassafras or hickory,
well-seasoned, about your own length. Trim it so as to taper gradually from the centre to the
ends, keeping it flat, at first, until you have it as in this sketch--for a boy, say, five
feet in height: (Fig. A)

This represents a bow five feet long, one and a quarter inches broad in the middle, three-fourths
of an inch thick at the centre, and a half-inch scant at the ends in breadth and thickness.

Bend the bow across your knee, pulling back both ends, one in each hand, the centre against
your knee, and see whether it is easily bent, and whether it springs readily back to its original
position. If so your bow is about the right size. Cut near each end the notch for the string
as in this figure: (Fig. B.)

Bevel the side of the bow which is to be held towards you, so that a section of your bow will
look like this figure: (Fig. C.)

The back or flat part is held from you in shooting, and the bevelled or rounded part towards
you. Scrape the bow with glass and smooth it with sand-paper.

To shape your bow lay it on a stout, flat piece of timber, and drive five ten-penny nails in
the timber, one at the centre of your bow, and the others as in figure below, so as to bend
the ends for about six inches in a direction contrary to the direction in which you draw the
bow: (Fig. D.)

Your bow is now finished as far as the wood-work is concerned, and you may proceed to wrap
it from end to end with silk or colored twine, increasing its elasticity and improving the
appearance. The ends of the wrap must be concealed as in wrapping a fish-hook. Glue with Spaulding's
glue a piece of velvet or even red flannel around the middle to mark your handhold. The ends
may in like manner be ornamented by glueing colored pieces upon them.

A hempen string, whipped in the middle with colored silk, to mark the place for your arrow
nock to be put, in shooting, will make a very good string.

For arrows any light, tough wood, which splits straight, will do. I use white pine, which may
be gotten from an ordinary store-box, and for hunting-arrows seasoned hickory. These must be
trimmed straight and true, until they are in thickness about the size of ordinary cedar pencils,
from twenty-five to twenty-eight inches in length. They must be feathered and weighted either
with lead or copper, or by fastening on sharp awl-points or steel arrow-points with wire.

I used to make six different kinds; a simple copper-wrap, a blunt leaden head, a sharp leaden
head like a minie bullet, an awl-point wrapped with copper wire and soldered, and a broad-head
hunting-arrow.

To make a copper wrap, wrap with copper wire the last half-inch of the arrow until you get
near the end, then lay a needle as large as your wire obliquely along the arrow as in this
figure: (Fig. E.) Continue the wrapping until you have weighted the arrow sufficiently; draw
out the needle and thrust the end

of your wire through the little passage kept by the needle, and draw it tight thus: (Fig. F.)

A blunt leaden head is made by pouring three or four melted buck-shot into a cylinder of paper,
wrapped around the end of the arrow, slightly larger at the open end, and tied on by a piece
of thread. The wood of the arrow must be cut thus: (Fig. H.)

The paper is put on thus: (Fig. X.)

It should look like this after the metal has been poured in and the paper all stripped off.
(Fig. I.)

It should look like this after being sharpened like a minie bullet: (Fig. J.)

An awl-point arrow is made by inserting the point in the end of the arrow, wrapping with copper
wire, and getting a tinner to drop some solder at the end to fasten the wire and awl-point
firmly together. The awl-point looks like this: (Fig. K.)

The awls (like Fig. L.) are filed like this into teeth-like notches on the part going into
the wood, and roundly sharp on the other part thus: (Fig. M.)

These may be shot into an oak-tree and extracted by a twist of the hand close to the arrow-point.

The broad-head hunting-point (Fig. N.) is put on by slitting the arrow and inserting the flat
handle of the arrow point, and wrapping it with silk, sinews, or copper wire. These points
can be sharpened along the line A B on a whetstone, and will cut like knives. The hunting arrow
looks like this: (Fig. O.)

To feather an arrow you strip a goose feather from the quill and, after clipping off the part
near the quill-end, you mark a line down the arrow from a point one inch from the nock and,
spreading some Spaulding's glue along that line apply the feather, lightly pressing it home
with forefinger and thumb. After you have glued on one piece lay aside the arrow and fix another,
and so on until the first is set, so that you may put on another piece. When you have fastened
these feathers on each arrow lay them aside for ten or twelve hours. The three feathers will
look like this: (Fig. P.)

A boy can hardly make a good quiver unless he were to kill some furred animal and make a cylindrical
case such as the Indians have, out of its skin. I am afraid that he usually would have to get
a harness-maker to make him a quiver out of leather, somewhat larger at the top than at the
bottom. It should hold from eight to twelve arrows.

A good target may be made of soft pine, circular or elliptical in shape. In the latter case
a line-shot might count, even though it were farther from the centre. Pieces should be tacked
to the back of this target at right angles to the grain of the wood. Differently-colored circles
or rings, a little more than the width of an arrow, must be painted on this, with a centre
twice the width of an arrow. The outer ring counts one, the next two, three, four and so on
to the centre, which of course counts highest. By this plan one's score could be told with
perfect accuracy.

If an arrow struck on a line between number three and four it counts three and a half. Anything
like this rarely happens. The target is fixed upon an easel formed of three pieces of wood
fastened together by a string at the top, and it ought to lean back at the top slightly, away
from the archer.

The three arrows count seven, nine, ten--twenty-six in all. In target-shooting you should use
awl-pointed, wire-wrapped arrows, as they can be easily drawn out of even a wooden target.

DOLLY'S SHOES.

I can't help wondering if any of the little maidens who are having so much comfort with their
beloved dolls in these Christmas holidays, ever think that somebody must have taken a great
deal of pains to dress them up so nicely, and above all, to make the tiny garments and hats
and shoes.

The doll's shoes!--so pretty, so daintily shaped, so beautifully stitched and trimmed, so perfectly,
faultlessly finished from heel to toe, the "cunningest things" in all dolly's wardrobe--did
it ever occur to the girlie "playing mother," to ask where they came from, and by whose dexterous
fingers they were fashioned? She knows well enough that when Angelina Christina, or Luella
Rosa Matilda Jennette, has worn these out, there are enough to be bought in the toy shops for
twenty-five or thirty cents a pair; but who makes them?

That was the question which came into my head one day, and I set to work to find out--doing
just what must suggest itself to anybody who wants information, whatever the subject: that
is to say, I went to head-quarters, and asked questions.

There are two places in Boston--one a "shoe and leather exchange," and the other the establishment
of an importer and dealer in shoe store supplies, where they furnish doll's shoes "to the trade,"
as the phrase is: one is on Congress street, and the other on Hanover; and the proprietors,
Mr. Daniels and Mr. Swanberg, instead of being amused at my errand, very kindly told me what
I wanted to know.

Some of the shoes are imported, but they are inferior in style to those made in this country--notwithstanding
they come from Paris, and everything from that place is supposed superlatively choice and to
be desired, as you are very well aware. In the United States there is one factory--and but
one, so far as I could ascertain--which supplies a large quantity, about fifteen hundred dozens,
for the American market, sending them to all parts, and furnishing the toy-stores in Chicago
and other western cities, as well as New York, Philadelphia and Boston.

This manufactory is at Bordentown, New Jersey, and has been in existence about twelve years,
and the value of stock now sent out is about seven thousand dollars a year; so much money for
the wee feet that run on no errands, and save no steps for anybody! The wholesale jobbers of
course advance the price, and in the retail stores they are higher yet; so that each tradesman
through whose hands they pass has his trifle of profit in helping to shoe the feet of the doll-people.
They retail from a dollar and a dollar and a quarter a dozen, to three dollars and seventy-five
cents, according to the style.

