But here she comes, the grand lady of the story, Penelope, the wife of Ulysses, as it were
in response to the music. A glorious appearance at a happy moment; yet she is not happy: "Holding
a veil before her face, and shedding tears, she bespoke the bard: Phemius cease from this sad
song, it cuts me to the heart." It reminds her of her husband and his sorrowful return, not
yet accomplished; she cannot endure the anguish and she begs the bard to sing another strain
which may delight his hearers.

This, then, is the sage Penelope whose character will be tested in many ways, and move through
many subtle turns to the end of the poem. In this her first appearance we note that she proclaims
in the presence of the suitors her undying love for her husband. This trait we may fairly consider
to be the deepest of her nature. She thinks of him continually and weeps at his absence. Still
she has her problem which requires at times all her female tact, yes, even dissimulation. Reckless
suitors are pressing for her hand, she has to employ all her arts to defer the hateful marriage;
otherwise she is helpless. She is the counterpart of her husband, a female Ulysses, who has
waited twenty years for his return. She also has had a stormy time, with the full experience
of life; her adventures in her world rival his in his world. But underneath all her cunning
is the rock of eternal fidelity. She went back to her room, and wept for her husband "till
Pallas closed her eye-lids in sweet sleep."

Nor can we pass over the answer of Telemachus, which he makes at this point to his mother.
It may be called a little Homeric treatise on poetry. "Mother, let the poet sing as his spirit
moves him;" he is not to be constrained, but must give the great fact; "poets are not to blame
but Zeus," for the sad return of the Greeks; "men applaud the song which is newest," novelty
being already sought for in the literature of Homer's time. But the son's harsh reproof of
the mother, with which his speech closes, bidding her look after her own affairs, the loom
and distaff and servants, is probably an interpolation. Such is the judgment of Aristarchus,
the greatest ancient commentator on Homer; such is also the judgment of Professor Nitzsch,
the greatest modern commentator on the Odyssey.

II.

The other side of the collision is the party of suitors, who assail the House of Ulysses in
property, in the son, in the wife, and finally in Ulysses himself. They are the wrong-doers
whose deeds are to be avenged by the returning hero; their punishment will exemplify the faith
in an ethical order of the world, upon which the poem reposes as its very foundation. They
are insolent, debauched, unjust; they defy the established right. Zeus has them in mind when
he speaks of Ægisthus, who is an example of the same sort of characters, and his fate is their
fate according to the Olympian lawgiver. They too are going to destruction through their own
folly, yet after many an admonition. Just now Telemachus has spoken an impressive warning:
"I shall invoke the ever-living Gods, that Zeus may grant deeds requiting yours."

Still their insolence goes on; the ethical world of justice and institutions has to be cleared
of such men, if it continue to exist. Who does not love this fealty of the old bard to the
highest order of things? The suitors are indeed blind; they have not recognized the presence
of the Goddess, yet there is a slight suspicion after she is gone; one of the suitors asks
who that stranger was. Telemachus, to lull inquiry, gives the outer assumed form of the divine
visitor, "an ancestral guest, Mentes of Taphos;" the poet however, is careful to add: "But
he (Telemachus) knew the immortal Goddess in his mind."

The conflict with the suitors is the framework of the entire poem. The education of Telemachus
as well as the discipline of Ulysses reach forward to this practical end--the destruction of
the wrong-doers, which is the purification of the country, and the re-establishment of the
ethical order. All training is to bring forth the heroic act. The next Book will unfold the
conflict in greater detail.

Appendix. The reader will have observed that, in the preceding account of Book First, it is
regarded as setting forth three unities, that of the total Odyssey, that of the Telemachiad,
and that of the Book itself. We see them all gradually unfolding in due order under the hand
of the poet, from the largest to the least. Now the reader should be informed that every one
of these unities has been violently attacked and proclaimed to be a sheer phantasm. Chiefly
in Germany has the assault taken place. What we have above considered as the joints in the
organism of the poem, have been cut into, pried apart, and declared to make so many separate
poems or passages, which different authors have written. Thus the one great Homer vanishes
into many little Homers, and this is claimed to be the only true way of appreciating Homer.

The most celebrated of these dissectors is probably the German Professor, Kirchhoff, some of
whose opinions we shall cite in this appendix. His psychological tendency is that of analysis,
separation, division; the very idea of unity seems a bugbear to him, a mighty delusion which
he must demolish or die. Specially is his wrath directed against Book First, probably because
it contains the three unities above mentioned, all of which he assails and rends to shreds
in his own opinion.

The entire Introduction (lines 1-88) he tears from its present place and puts it before the
Fifth Book, where it serves as the prelude to the Calypso tale. The rest of the Telemachiad
is the work of another poet. Indeed the rest of the First Book (after the Introduction) is
not by the same man who produced the Second Book. Then the Second Book is certainly older than
the First, and ought somehow to be placed before it. The real truth is, however, that the First
Book is only a hodge-podge made out of the Second Book by an inferior poet, who took thence
fragments of sentences and of ideas and stitched them together. In the Invocation Kirchhoff
cuts out the allusion to the oxen of the Sun (lines 6-9) as being inconsistent with his theory.

After disposing of the Introduction in this way, Kirchhoff takes up the remaining portion of
the First Book, which he tears to pieces almost line by line. In about forty separate notes
on different passages he marks points for skepticism, having in the main one procedure: he
hunts both the Iliad and the Odyssey through, and if he finds a line or phrase, and even a
word used elsewhere, which he has observed here, he at once is inclined to conclude that the
same must have been taken thence and put here by a foreign hand. Every reader of Homer is familiar
with his habit of repeating lines and even entire passages, when necessary. All such repetitions
Kirchhoff seizes upon as signs of different authorship; the poet must have used the one, some
redactor or imitator the other. To be sure we ought to have a criterion by which we can tell
which is the original and which is the derived; but such a criterion Kirchhoff fails to furnish,
we must accept his judgment as imperial and final. Once or twice, indeed, he seems to feel
the faultiness of his procedure, and tries to bolster it, but as a rule he speaks thus: "The
following verse is a formula (repetition), and hence not the property of the author." (Die
Homerische Odyssee, p. 174.)

Now such repetitions are common in all old poetry, in the ballad, in the folk-song, in the
Kalevala as well as in the Homeric poems. Messages sent are repeated naturally when delivered;
the same event recurring, as when the boat is rowed, the banquet prepared, or the armor put
on, is described in the same language. Such is usually felt to be a mark of epic simplicity,
of the naive use of language, which will not vary a phrase merely for the sake of variety.
But Kirchhoff and his followers will have it just the other way; the early poet never varies
or repeats, only the later poet does that. So he seeks out a large number of passages in the
rest of the Odyssey, and in the Iliad also, which have something in common with passages of
this First Book, especially in the matter of words, and easily finds it to be a "cento," a
mixed mass of borrowed phrases.

But who was the author of such work? Not the original Homer, but some later matcher and patcher,
imitator or redactor. It is not easy to tell from Kirchhoff just how many persons may have
had a hand in this making of the Odyssey, as it lies before us. In his dissertations we read
of a motley multitude: original poet, continuator, interpolator, redactor, reconstructor, imitator,
author of the older part, author of the newer part--not merely individuals, but apparently
classes of men. Thus he anatomizes old Homer with a vengeance.

BOOK SECOND.

The general relation between the First and Second Books is to be grasped at once. In the First
Book the main fact is the Assembly in the Upper World, together with the descent of the divine
influence which through Pallas comes to Telemachus in person, gives him courage and stirs him
to action. This action is to bring harmony into the discordant land. In the Second Book the
main fact is the Assembly in the Lower World, together with the rise of Telemachus into a new
participation with divine influence in the form of Pallas, who sends him forth on his journey
of education. We behold, therefore, in the two Books a sweep from above to below, then from
below back to the divine influence. Earth and Olympus are the halves of the cycle, but the
Earth is in discord and must be transformed to the harmony of Olympus.

Looking now at the Second Book by itself, we note that it falls into two portions: the Assembly
of the People, which has been called together by Telemachus, and the communion of the youth
with Pallas, who again appears to him at his call. The first is a mundane matter, and shows
the Lower World in conflict with the divine order--the sides being the Suitors on the one hand
and the House of Ulysses on the other. The second portion lifts the young hero into a vision
of divinity, and should lift the reader along with him. Previously Pallas had, as it were,
descended into Telemachus, but now he rises of himself into the Goddess. Clearly he possesses
a new power, that of communion with the Gods. These two leading thoughts divide the Book into
two well-marked parts--the first including lines 1-259, the second including the rest.

I.

The Assembly of the Ithacans presupposes a political habit of gathering into the town-meeting
and consulting upon common interests. This usage is common to the Aryan race, and from it spring
parliaments, congresses, and other cognate institutions, together with oratory before the People.
A wonderful development has come of this little germ, which we see here still alive in Ithaca,
though it has been almost choked by the unhappy condition of things. Not since Ulysses left
has there been any such Assembly, says the first speaker, an old man drawing upon his memory,
not for twenty years; surely a sign of smothered institutional life. The first thing which
Telemachus in his new career does is to call the Assembly, and start this institutional life
into activity again. Whereof we feel the fresh throb in the words of the aged speaker, who
calls him "Blessed."

Now the oratory begins, as it must begin in such a place. The golden gift of eloquence is highly
prized by Homer, and by the Homeric People; prophetic it is, one always thinks of the great
Attic orators. The speakers are distinctly marked in character by their speeches; but the Assembly
itself seems to remain dumb; it was evidently divided into two parties; one well-disposed to
the House of Ulysses, the other to the Suitors. The corruption of the time has plainly entered
the soul of the People, and thorough must be the cleansing by the Gods. Two kinds of speakers
we notice also, on the same lines, supporting each side; thus the discord of Ithaca is now
to be reflected in its oratory. Three sets of orators speak on each side, placing before us
the different phases of the case; these we shall mark off for the thought and for the eye of
the reader.

1. After the short opening speech of the old man, Ægyptius, the heart of the whole movement
utters itself in Telemachus, who remains the chief speaker throughout. His speech is strong
and bold; from it two main points peer forth. The first is the wrong of the Suitors, who will
not take the right way of wooing Penelope by going to her father and giving the bridal gift
according to custom, but consume the son's property under pretense of their suit for the mother.
The second point is the strong appeal to the Ithacans--to their sense of right, to their sense
of shame, and to their fear of the Gods, who "in their divine wrath shall turn back ill deeds
upon the doer." But in vain; that Ithacan Assembly contains friends and relatives of the Suitors,
and possibly purchased adherents; nay, it contains some of the Suitors themselves, and here
rises one of them to make a speech in reply.

This is Antinous, who now makes the most elaborate defense of the case of the Suitors that
is to be found in the poem. The speech is remarkable for throwing the whole blame upon Penelope--not
a gallant proceeding in a lover; still it betrays great admiration for the woman on account
of her devices and her cunning. She has thwarted and fooled the whole band of unwelcome wooers
for three years and more by her wonderful web, which she wove by day and unraveled by night.
And even now when she has been found out, she holds them aloof but keeps them in good humor,
though clearly at a great expense of the family's property, which fact has roused Telemachus
to his protest. Antinous, though feeling that he and the rest have been outwitted by the woman,
does not stint his praise on that account, he even heightens it. So the will of the parent
and the choice of the daughter had to go together even in Homer's days. Of course Antinous
has no ground of right for giving this order; he is not the master of the house, though he
hopes to be; his assumed authority is pure insolence. Then why should the Suitors injure the
son because they have been wheedled by the mother? Still they will continue to consume "his
living and his wealth as long as she keeps her present mind."

But the most interesting thing in his speech is to discover the attitude and motives of Penelope.
We see her fidelity, but something more than fidelity is now needed, namely the greatest skill,
dissimulation, or female tact, to use the more genteel word. She has a hard problem on her
hands; she has to save her son, herself, and as much of the estate as she can, from a set of
bandits who have all in their might. Were she to undertake to drive them away, they would pillage
the house, kill her boy, and certainly carry her off. They have the power, they have the inclination;
they are held by one small thread in the weak hands of a woman, but with that thread she snares
them all, to the last man. Love it may be called, of a certain sort; we see how Antinous admires
her, though conscious that she has made a fool of him and his fellows. Each hopes to win the
prize yet, and she feeds them with hope, "sending private messages to each man;" thus she turns
every one of them against the other, and prevents concerted action which looks to violence.
That wonderful female gift is hers, the gift of making each of her hundred Suitors think that
just he is the favored one, only let it be kept secret now till the right time comes!

But Penelope uses this gift as a weapon, it is her means of saving the House of Ulysses, while
many another fair lady uses it for the fun of the thing. Is she right? Does her end justify
her means? True she is in the highest degree to Family and State, is saving both; but she does
dissemble, does cajole the suitors. One boy, one woman, one old man in the country constitute
the present strength of the House of Ulysses; but craft meets violence and undoes it, as always.

And yet we may grant something to the other side of her character. She takes pleasure in the
exercise of her gift, who does not? Inasmuch as the Suitors are here, and not to be dismissed,
she will get a certain gratification out of their suit. A little dash of coquetry, a little
love of admiration we may discern peeping through her adamantine fidelity to her husband, recollect
after an absence of twenty years. As all this homage was thrust upon her, she seeks to win
from it a kind of satisfaction; the admiration of a hundred men she tries to receive without
making a sour face. Still further she takes pleasure in the exercise of that feminine subtlety
which holds them fast in the web, yet keeps them off; giving them always hope, but indefinitely
extending it. Verily that web which she wove is the web of Fate for the Suitors. So much for
Penelope at present, whom we shall meet again.

To this demand of Antinous to send the mother away, Telemachus makes a noble, yes, a heroic
response. It would be wrong all around, wrong to the mother, wrong to her father, unless he
(Telemachus) restored the dower, wrong to the Gods; vengeance from the Erinyes, and nemesis
from man would come upon him for such a deed. Thus the young hero appeals to the divine order
and puts himself in harmony with its behests. Boldly he declares, that if the Suitors continue
in their ill-doing, "I shall invoke the ever-living Gods; if Zeus may grant fit retribution
for your crimes, ye shall die within this palace unavenged." Truly a speech given with a power
which brings fulfillment; prophetic it must be, if there be any Gods in the world. Already
we have seen that Telemachus was capable of this high mood, which communes with deity and utters
the decree from above. Behold, no sooner is the word uttered by the mortal, than we have the
divine response. It is in the form of an omen, the flight of two eagles tearing each other
as they fly to the right through the houses of the town. Also the interpreter is present, who
tells the meaning of the sign, and stamps the words of Telemachus with the seal of the Gods.

2. Here we pass to the second set of speeches which show more distinctively the religious phase,
in contrast to the preceding set, which show rather the institutional phase, of the conflict;
that is, the Gods are the theme of the one, Family and State of the other. The old augur Halitherses,
the man of religion, explains the omen in full harmony with what Telemachus has said; he prophesies
the speedy return of Ulysses and the punishment of the Suitors, unless they desist. Well may
the aged prophet foretell some such outcome, after seeing the spirit of the son; Vengeance
is indeed in the air, and is felt by the sensitive seer, and also by the sensitive reader.

