"I--I--don't sleep very well," he admitted, "but otherwise I assure you I feel all right."

It was the second time she had manifested concern for his health. The blood coursed deliciously
in his veins; a thrill ran through his whole form. The gentle anxious face seemed to grow angelic.
Could she really care if his health gave way? Again he felt a rash of self-pity that filled
his eyes with tears. He was grateful to her for sharing his sense of the empty cheerlessness
of his existence. He wondered why it had seemed so full and cheery just before.

"And you used to sleep so well," said Esther, slily, remembering Addie's domestic revelations.
"My stupid manuscript should come in useful."

"Oh, forgive my stupid joke!" he said remorsefully.

"Forgive mine!" she answered. "Sleeplessness is too terrible to joke about. Again I speak as
one who knows."

"Oh, I'm sorry to hear that!" he said, his egoistic tenderness instantly transformed to compassionate
solicitude.

"Never mind me; I am a woman and can take care of myself. Why don't you go over to Norway and
join Mr. Graham?"

"That's quite out of the question," he said, puffing furiously at his pipe. "I can't leave
the paper."

"Oh, men always say that. Haven't you let your pipe go out? I don't see any smoke."

He started and laughed. "Yes, there's no more tobacco in it." He laid it down.

"No, I insist on your going on or else I shall feel uncomfortable. Where's your pouch?"

He felt all over his pockets. "It must be on the table."

She rummaged among the mass of papers. "Ha! There are your scissors'" she said scornfully,
turning them up. She found the pouch in time and handed it to him. "I ought to have the management
of this office for a day," she remarked again.

"Well, fill my pipe for me," he said, with an audacious inspiration. He felt an unreasoning
impulse to touch her hand, to smooth her soft cheek with his fingers and press her eyelids
down over her dancing eyes. She filled the pipe, full measure and running over; he took it
by the stem, her warm gloved fingers grazing his chilly bare hand and suffusing him with a
delicious thrill.

"Now you must crown your work," he said. "The matches are somewhere about."

She hunted again, interpolating exclamations of reproof at the risk of fire.

"They're safety matches, I think," he said. They proved to be wax vestas. She gave him a liquid
glance of mute reproach that filled him with bliss as overbrimmingly as his pipe had been filled
with bird's eye; then she struck a match, protecting the flame scientifically in the hollow
of her little hand. Raphael had never imagined a wax vesta could be struck so charmingly. She
tip-toed to reach the bowl in his mouth, but he bent his tall form and felt her breath upon
his face. The volumes of smoke curled up triumphantly, and Esther's serious countenance relaxed
in a smile of satisfaction. She resumed the conversation where it had been broken off by the
idyllic interlude of the pipe.

"But if you can't leave London, there's plenty of recreation to be had in town. I'll wager
you haven't yet been to see Hamlet in lieu of the night you disappointed us."

"Disappointed myself, you mean," he said with a retrospective consciousness of folly. "No,
to tell the truth, I haven't been out at all lately. Life is so short."

"Then, why waste it?"

"Oh come, I can't admit I waste it," he said, with a gentle smile that filled her with a penetrating
emotion. "You mustn't take such material views of life." Almost in a whisper he quoted: "To
him that hath the kingdom of God all things shall be added," and went on: "Socialism is at
least as important as Shakspeare."

"Socialism," she repeated. "Are you a Socialist, then?"

"Of a kind," he answered. "Haven't you detected the cloven hoof in my leaders? I'm not violent,
you know; don't be alarmed. But I have been doing a little mild propagandism lately in the
evenings; land nationalization and a few other things which would bring the world more into
harmony with the Law of Moses."

"What! do you find Socialism, too, in orthodox Judaism?"

"It requires no seeking."

"Well, you're almost as bad as my father, who found every thing in the Talmud. At this rate
you will certainly convert me soon; or at least I shall, like M. Jourdain, discover I've been
orthodox all my life without knowing it."

"I hope so," he said gravely. "But have you Socialistic sympathies?"

She hesitated. As a girl she had felt the crude Socialism which is the unreasoned instinct
of ambitious poverty, the individual revolt mistaking itself for hatred of the general injustice.
When the higher sphere has welcomed the Socialist, he sees he was but the exception to a contented
class. Esther had gone through the second phase and was in the throes of the third, to which
only the few attain.

"I used to be a red-hot Socialist once," she said. "To-day I doubt whether too much stress
is not laid on material conditions. High thinking is compatible with the plainest living. 'The
soul is its own place and can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.' Let the people who
wish to build themselves lordly treasure-houses do so, if they can afford it, but let us not
degrade our ideals by envying them."

The conversation had drifted into seriousness. Raphael's thoughts reverted to their normal
intellectual cast, but he still watched with pleasure the play of her mobile features as she
expounded her opinions.

"Ah, yes, that is a nice abstract theory," he said. "But what if the mechanism of competitive
society works so that thousands don't even get the plainest living? You should just see the
sights I have seen, then you would understand why for some time the improvement of the material
condition of the masses must be the great problem. Of course, you won't suspect me of underrating
the moral and religious considerations."

Esther smiled almost Imperceptibly. The idea of Raphael, who could not see two inches before
his nose, telling her to examine the spectacle of human misery would have been distinctly amusing,
even if her early life had been passed among the same scenes as his. It seemed a part of the
irony of things and the paradox of fate that Raphael, who had never known cold or hunger, should
be so keenly sensitive to the sufferings of others, while she who had known both had come to
regard them with philosophical tolerance. Perhaps she was destined ere long to renew her acquaintance
with them. Well, that would test her theories at any rate.

"Who is taking material views of life now?" she asked.

"It is by perfect obedience to the Mosaic Law that the kingdom of God is to be brought about
on earth," he answered. "And in spirit, orthodox Judaism is undoubtedly akin to Socialism."
His enthusiasm set him pacing the room as usual, his arms working like the sails of a windmill.

Esther shook her head. "Well, give me Shakspeare," she said. "I had rather see Hamlet than
a world of perfect prigs." She laughed at the oddity of her own comparison and added, still
smiling: "Once upon a time I used to think Shakspeare a fraud. But that was merely because
he was an institution. It is a real treat to find one superstition that will stand analysis."

"Perhaps you will find the Bible turn out like that," he said hopefully.

"I have found it. Within the last few months I have read it right through again--Old and New.
It is full of sublime truths, noble apophthegms, endless touches of nature, and great poetry.
Our tiny race may well be proud of having given humanity its greatest as well as its most widely
circulated books. Why can't Judaism take a natural view of things and an honest pride in its
genuine history, instead of building its synagogues on shifting sand?"

"In Germany, later in America, the reconstruction of Judaism has been attempted in every possible
way; inspiration has been sought not only in literature, but in archaeology, and even in anthropology;
it is these which have proved the shifting sand. You see your scepticism is not even original."
He smiled a little, serene in the largeness of his faith. His complacency grated upon her.
She jumped up. "We always seem to get into religion, you and I," she said. "I wonder why. It
is certain we shall never agree. Mosaism is magnificent, no doubt, but I cannot help feeling
Mr. Graham is right when he points out its limitations. Where would the art of the world be
if the second Commandment had been obeyed? Is there any such thing as an absolute system of
morality? How is it the Chinese have got on all these years without religion? Why should the
Jews claim the patent in those moral ideas which you find just as well in all the great writers
of antiquity? Why--?" she stopped suddenly, seeing his smile had broadened.

"Which of all these objections am I to answer?" he asked merrily. "Some I'm sure you don't mean."

"I mean all those you can't answer. So please don't try. After all, you're not a professional
explainer of the universe, that I should heckle you thus."

"Oh, but I set up to be," he protested.

"No, you don't. You haven't called me a blasphemer once. I'd better go before you become really
professional. I shall be late for dinner."

"What nonsense! It is only four o'clock," he pleaded, consulting an old-fashioned silver watch.

"As late as that!" said Esther in horrified tones. "Good-bye! Take care to go through my 'copy'
in case any heresies have filtered into it."

"Your copy? Did you give it me?" he inquired.

"Of course I did. You took it from me. Where did you put it? Oh, I hope you haven't mixed it
up with those papers. It'll be a terrible task to find it," cried Esther excitedly.

"I wonder if I could have put it in the pigeon-hole for 'copy,'" he said. "Yes! what luck!"

Esther laughed heartily. "You seem tremendously surprised to find anything in its right place."

The moment of solemn parting had come, yet she found herself laughing on. Perhaps she was glad
to find the farewell easier than she had foreseen, it had certainly been made easier by the
theological passage of arms, which brought out all her latent antagonism to the prejudiced
young pietist. Her hostility gave rather a scornful ring to the laugh, which ended with a suspicion
of hysteria.

"What a lot of stuff you've written," he said. "I shall never be able to get this into one number."

"I didn't intend you should. It's to be used in instalments, if it's good enough. I did it
all in advance, because I'm going away."

"Going away!" he cried, arresting himself in the midst of an inhalation of smoke. "Where?"

"I don't know," she said wearily.

He looked alarm and interrogation.

"I am going to leave the Goldsmiths," she said. "I haven't decided exactly what to do next."

"I hope you haven't quarrelled with them."

"No, no, not at all. In fact they don't even know I am going. I only tell you in confidence.
Please don't say anything to anybody. Good-bye. I may not come across you again. So this may
be a last good-bye." She extended her hand; he took it mechanically.

"I have no right to pry into your confidence," he said anxiously, "but you make me very uneasy."
He did not let go her hand, the warm touch quickened his sympathy. He felt he could not part
with her and let her drift into Heaven knew what. "Won't you tell me your trouble?" he went
on. "I am sure it is some trouble. Perhaps I can help you. I should be so glad if you would
give me the opportunity."

The tears struggled to her eyes, but she did not speak. They stood in silence, with their hands
still clasped, feeling very near to each other, and yet still so far apart.

"Cannot you trust me?" he asked. "I know you are unhappy, but I had hoped you had grown cheerfuller
of late. You told me so much at our first meeting, surely you might trust me yet a little farther."

"I have told you enough," she said at last "I cannot any longer eat the bread of charity; I
must go away and try to earn my own living."

"But what will you do?"

"What do other girls do? Teaching, needlework, anything. Remember, I'm an experienced teacher
and a graduate to boot." Her pathetic smile lit up the face with tremulous tenderness.

"But you would be quite alone in the world," he said, solicitude vibrating in every syllable.

"I am used to being quite alone in the world."

The phrase threw a flash of light along the backward vista of her life with the Goldsmiths,
and filled his soul with pity and yearning.

"But suppose you fail?"

"If I fail--" she repeated, and rounded off the sentence with a shrug. It was the apathetic,
indifferent shrug of Moses Ansell; only his was the shrug of faith in Providence, hers of despair.
It filled Raphael's heart with deadly cold and his soul with sinister forebodings. The pathos
of her position seemed to him intolerable.

"No, no, this must not be!" he cried, and his hand gripped hers fiercely, as if he were afraid
of her being dragged away by main force. He was terribly agitated; his whole being seemed to
be undergoing profound and novel emotions. Their eyes met; in one and the same instant the
knowledge broke upon her that she loved him, and that if she chose to play the woman he was
hers, and life a Paradisian dream. The sweetness of the thought intoxicated her, thrilled her
veins with fire. But the next instant she was chilled as by a gray cold fog. The realities
of things came back, a whirl of self-contemptuous thoughts blent with a hopeless sense of the
harshness of life. Who was she to aspire to such a match? Had her earlier day-dream left her
no wiser than that? The Schnorrer's daughter setting her cap at the wealthy Oxford man, forsooth!
What would people say? And what would they say if they knew how she had sought him out in his
busy seclusion to pitch a tale of woe and move him by his tenderness of heart to a pity he
mistook momentarily for love? The image of Levi came back suddenly; she quivered, reading herself
through his eyes. And yet would not his crude view be right? Suppress the consciousness as
she would in her maiden breast, had she not been urged hither by an irresistible impulse? Knowing
what she felt now, she could not realize she had been ignorant of it when she set out. She
was a deceitful, scheming little thing. Angry with herself, she averted her gaze from the eyes
that hungered for her, though they were yet unlit by self-consciousness; she loosed her hand
from his, and as if the cessation of the contact restored her self-respect, some of her anger
passed unreasonably towards him.

"What right, have you to say it must not be?" she inquired haughtily. "Do you think I can't
take care of myself, that I need any one to protect me or to help me?"

"No--I--I--only mean--" he stammered in infinite distress, feeling himself somehow a blundering
brute.

"Remember I am not like the girls you are used to meet. I have known the worst that life can
offer. I can stand alone, yes, and face the whole world. Perhaps you don't know that I wrote
Mordecai Josephs, the book you burlesqued so mercilessly!"

"You wrote it!"

"Yes, I. I am Edward Armitage. Did those initials never strike you? I wrote it and I glory
in it. Though all Jewry cry out 'The picture is false,' I say it is true. So now you know the
truth. Proclaim it to all Hyde Park and Maida Vale, tell it to all your narrow-minded friends
and acquaintances, and let them turn and rend me. I can live without them or their praise.
Too long they have cramped my soul. Now at last I am going to cut myself free. From them and
from you and all your petty prejudices and interests. Good-bye, for ever."

She went out abruptly, leaving the room dark and Raphael shaken and dumbfounded; she went down
the stairs and into the keen bright air, with a fierce exultation at her heart, an intoxicating
sense of freedom and defiance. It was over. She had vindicated herself to herself and to the
imaginary critics. The last link that bound her to Jewry was snapped; it was impossible it
could ever be reforged. Raphael knew her in her true colors at last. She seemed to herself
a Spinoza the race had cast out.

The editor of The Flag of Judah stood for some minutes as if petrified; then he turned suddenly
to the litter on his table and rummaged among it feverishly. At last, as with a happy recollection,
he opened a drawer. What he sought was there. He started reading Mordecai Josephs, forgetting
to close the drawer. Passage after passage suffused his eyes with tears; a soft magic hovered
about the nervous sentences; he read her eager little soul in every line. Now he understood.
How blind he had been! How could he have missed seeing? Esther stared at him from every page.
She was the heroine of her own book; yes, and the hero, too, for he was but another side of
herself translated into the masculine. The whole book was Esther, the whole Esther and nothing
but Esther, for even the satirical descriptions were but the revolt of Esther's soul against
mean and evil things. He turned to the great love-scene of the book, and read on and on, fascinated,
without getting further than the chapter.

CHAPTER XI.

GOING HOME.

No need to delay longer; every need for instant flight. Esther had found courage to confess
her crime against the community to Raphael; there was no seething of the blood to nerve her
to face Mrs. Henry Goldsmith. She retired to her room soon after dinner on the plea (which
was not a pretext) of a headache. Then she wrote:

     "DEAR MRS. GOLDSMITH:

     "When you read this, I shall have left your house, never to return.
     It would be idle to attempt to explain my reasons. I could not hope
     to make you see through my eyes. Suffice it to say that I cannot
     any longer endure a life of dependence, and that I feel I have
     abused your favor by writing that Jewish novel of which you
     disapprove so vehemently. I never intended to keep the secret from
     you, after publication. I thought the book would succeed and you
     would be pleased; at the same time I dimly felt that you might
     object to certain things and ask to have them altered, and I have
     always wanted to write my own ideas, and not other people's. With
     my temperament, I see now that it was a mistake to fetter myself by
     obligations to anybody, but the mistake was made in my girlhood
     when I knew little of the world and perhaps less of myself.
     Nevertheless, I wish you to believe, dear Mrs. Goldsmith, that all
     the blame for the unhappy situation which has arisen I put upon my
     own shoulders, and that I have nothing for you but the greatest
     affection and gratitude for all the kindnesses I have received at
     your hands. I beg you not to think that I make the slightest
     reproach against you; on the contrary, I shall always henceforth
     reproach myself with the thought that I have made you so poor a
     return for your generosity and incessant thoughtfulness. But the
     sphere in which you move is too high for me; I cannot assimilate
     with it and I return, not without gladness, to the humble sphere
     whence you took me. With kindest regards and best wishes,

     "I am,

     "Yours ever gratefully,

     "ESTHER ANSELL."

There were tears in Esther's eyes when she finished, and she was penetrated with admiration
of her own generosity in so freely admitting Mrs. Goldsmith's and in allowing that her patron
got nothing out of the bargain. She was doubtful whether the sentence about the high sphere
was satirical or serious. People do not know what they mean almost as often as they do not say it.

Esther put the letter into an envelope and placed it on the open writing-desk she kept on her
dressing-table. She then packed a few toilette essentials in a little bag, together with some
American photographs of her brother and sisters in various stages of adolescence. She was determined
to go back empty-handed as she came, and was reluctant to carry off the few sovereigns of pocket-money
in her purse, and hunted up a little gold locket she had received, while yet a teacher, in
celebration of the marriage of a communal magnate's daughter. Thrown aside seven years ago,
it now bade fair to be the corner-stone of the temple; she had meditated pledging it and living
on the proceeds till she found work, but when she realized its puny pretensions to cozen pawnbrokers,
it flashed upon her that she could always repay Mrs. Goldsmith the few pounds she was taking
away. In a drawer there was a heap of manuscript carefully locked away; she took it and looked
through it hurriedly, contemptuously. Some of it was music, some poetry, the bulk prose. At
last she threw it suddenly on the bright fire which good Mary O'Reilly had providentially provided
in her room; then, as it flared up, stricken with remorse, she tried to pluck the sheets from
the flames; only by scorching her fingers and raising blisters did she succeed, and then, with
scornful resignation, she instantly threw them back again, warming her feverish hands merrily
at the bonfire. Rapidly looking through all her drawers, lest perchance in some stray manuscript
she should leave her soul naked behind her, she came upon a forgotten faded rose. The faint
fragrance was charged with strange memories of Sidney. The handsome young artist had given
it her in the earlier days of their acquaintanceship. To Esther to-night it seemed to belong
to a period infinitely more remote than her childhood. When the shrivelled rose had been further
crumpled into a little ball and then picked to bits, it only remained to inquire where to go;
what to do she could settle when there. She tried to collect her thoughts. Alas! it was not
so easy as collecting her luggage. For a long time she crouched on the fender and looked into
the fire, seeing in it only fragmentary pictures of the last seven years--bits of scenery,
great Cathedral interiors arousing mysterious yearnings, petty incidents of travel, moments
with Sidney, drawing-room episodes, strange passionate scenes with herself as single performer,
long silent watches of study and aspiration, like the souls of the burned manuscripts made
visible. Even that very afternoon's scene with Raphael was part of the "old unhappy far-off
things" that could only live henceforwards in fantastic arcades of glowing coal, out of all
relation to future realities. Her new-born love for Raphael appeared as ancient and as arid
as the girlish ambitions that had seemed on the point of blossoming when she was transplanted
from the Ghetto. That, too, was in the flames, and should remain there.

At last she started up with a confused sense of wasted time and began to undress mechanically,
trying to concentrate her thoughts the while on the problem that faced her. But they wandered
back to her first night in the fine house, when a separate bedroom was a new experience and
she was afraid to sleep alone, though turned fifteen. But she was more afraid of appearing
a great baby, and so no one in the world ever knew what the imaginative little creature had
lived down.

In the middle of brushing her hair she ran to the door and locked it, from a sudden dread that
she might oversleep herself and some one would come in and see the letter on the writing-desk.
She had not solved the problem even by the time she got into bed; the fire opposite the foot
was burning down, but there was a red glow penetrating the dimness. She had forgotten to draw
the blind, and she saw the clear stars shining peacefully in the sky. She looked and looked
at them and they led her thoughts away from the problem once more. She seemed to be lying in
Victoria Park, looking up with innocent mystic rapture and restfulness at the brooding blue
sky. The blood-and-thunder boys' story she had borrowed from Solomon had fallen from her hand
and lay unheeded on the grass. Solomon was tossing a ball to Rachel, which he had acquired
by a colossal accumulation of buttons, and Isaac and Sarah were rolling and wrangling on the
grass. Oh, why had she deserted them? What were they doing now, without her mother-care, out
and away beyond the great seas? For weeks together, the thought of them had not once crossed
her mind; to-night she stretched her arms involuntarily towards her loved ones, not towards
the shadowy figures of reality, scarcely less phantasmal than the dead Benjamin, but towards
the childish figures of the past. What happy times they had had together in the dear old garret!

In her strange half-waking hallucination, her outstretched arms were clasped round little Sarah.
She was putting her to bed and the tiny thing was repeating after her, in broken Hebrew, the
children's night-prayer: "Suffer me to lie down in peace, and let me rise up in peace. Hear
O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one," with its unauthorized appendix in baby English:
"Dod teep me, and mate me a dood dirl, orways."

She woke to full consciousness with a start; her arms chilled, her face wet. But the problem
was solved.

She would go back to them, back to her true home, where loving faces waited to welcome her,
where hearts were open and life was simple and the weary brain could find rest from the stress
and struggle of obstinate questionings of destiny. Life was so simple at bottom; it was she
that was so perversely complex. She would go back to her father whose naïve devout face swam
glorified upon a sea of tears; yea, and back to her father's primitive faith like a tired lost
child that spies its home at last. The quaint, monotonous cadence of her father's prayers rang
pathetically in her ears; and a great light, the light that Raphael had shown her, seemed to
blend mystically with the once meaningless sounds. Yea, all things were from Him who created
light and darkness, good and evil; she felt her cares falling from her, her soul absorbing
itself in the sense of a Divine Love, awful, profound, immeasurable, underlying and transcending
all things, incomprehensibly satisfying the soul and justifying and explaining the universe.
The infinite fret and fume of life seemed like the petulance of an infant in the presence of
this restful tenderness diffused through the great spaces. How holy the stars seemed up there
in the quiet sky, like so many Sabbath lights shedding visible consecration and blessing!

Yes, she would go back to her loved ones, back from this dainty room, with its white laces
and perfumed draperies, back if need be to a Ghetto garret. And in the ecstasy of her abandonment
of all worldly things, a great peace fell upon her soul.

In the morning the nostalgia of the Ghetto was still upon her, blent with a passion of martyrdom
that made her yearn for a lower social depth than was really necessary. But the more human
aspects of the situation were paramount in the gray chillness of a bleak May dawn. Her resolution
to cross the Atlantic forthwith seemed a little hasty, and though she did not flinch from it,
she was not sorry to remember that she had not money enough for the journey. She must perforce
stay in London till she had earned it; meantime she would go back to the districts and the
people she knew so well, and accustom herself again to the old ways, the old simplicities of
existence.

She dressed herself in her plainest apparel, though she could not help her spring bonnet being
pretty. She hesitated between a hat and a bonnet, but decided that her solitary position demanded
as womanly an appearance as possible. Do what she would, she could not prevent herself looking
exquisitely refined, and the excitement of adventure had lent that touch of color to her face
which made it fascinating. About seven o'clock she left her room noiselessly and descended
the stairs cautiously, holding her little black bag in her hand.

"Och, be the holy mother, Miss Esther, phwat a turn you gave me," said Mary O'Reilly, emerging
unexpectedly from the dining-room and meeting her at the foot of the stairs. "Phwat's the matther?"

"I'm going out, Mary," she said, her heart beating violently.

"Sure an' it's rale purty ye look, Miss Esther; but it's divil a bit the marnin' for a walk,
it looks a raw kind of a day, as if the weather was sorry for bein' so bright yisterday."

"Oh, but I must go, Mary."

"Ah, the saints bliss your kind heart!" said Mary, catching sight of the bag. "Sure, then,
it's a charity irrand you're bent on. I mind me how my blissed old masther, Mr. Goldsmith's
father, Olov Hasholom, who's gone to glory, used to walk to Shool in all winds and weathers;
sometimes it was five o'clock of a winter's marnin' and I used to get up and make him an iligant
cup of coffee before he wint to Selichoth; he niver would take milk and sugar in it, becaz
that would be atin' belike, poor dear old ginthleman. Ah the Holy Vargin be kind to him!"

"And may she be kind to you, Mary," said Esther. And she impulsively pressed her lips to the
old woman's seamed and wrinkled cheek, to the astonishment of the guardian of Judaism. Virtue
was its own reward, for Esther profited by the moment of the loquacious creature's breathlessness
to escape. She opened the hall door and passed into the silent streets, whose cold pavements
seemed to reflect the bleak stony tints of the sky.

For the first few minutes she walked hastily, almost at a run. Then her pace slackened; she
told herself there was no hurry, and she shook her head when a cabman interrogated her. The
omnibuses were not running yet. When they commenced, she would take one to Whitechapel. The
signs of awakening labor stirred her with new emotions; the early milkman with his cans, casual
artisans with their tools, a grimy sweep, a work-girl with a paper lunch-package, an apprentice
whistling. Great sleeping houses lined her path like gorged monsters drowsing voluptuously.
The world she was leaving behind her grew alien and repulsive, her heart went out to the patient
world of toil. What had she been doing all these years, amid her books and her music and her
rose-leaves, aloof from realities?

The first 'bus overtook her half-way and bore her back to the Ghetto.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ghetto was all astir, for it was half-past eight of a work-a-day morning. But Esther had
not walked a hundred yards before her breast was heavy with inauspicious emotions. The well-known
street she had entered was strangely broadened. Instead of the dirty picturesque houses rose
an appalling series of artisans' dwellings, monotonous brick barracks, whose dead, dull prose
weighed upon the spirits. But, as in revenge, other streets, unaltered, seemed incredibly narrow.
Was it possible it could have taken even her childish feet six strides to cross them, as she
plainly remembered? And they seemed so unspeakably sordid and squalid. Could she ever really
have walked them with light heart, unconscious of the ugliness? Did the gray atmosphere that
overhung them ever lift, or was it their natural and appropriate mantle? Surely the sun could
never shine upon these slimy pavements, kissing them to warmth and life.

Great magic shops where all things were to be had; peppermints and cotton, china-faced dolls
and lemons, had dwindled into the front windows of tiny private dwelling-houses; the black-wigged
crones, the greasy shambling men, were uglier and greasier than she had ever conceived them.
They seemed caricatures of humanity; scarecrows in battered hats or draggled skirts. But gradually,
as the scene grew upon her, she perceived that in spite of the "model dwellings" builder, it
was essentially unchanged. No vestige of improvement had come over Wentworth Street: the narrow
noisy market street, where serried barrows flanked the reeking roadway exactly as of old, and
where Esther trod on mud and refuse and babies. Babies! They were everywhere; at the breasts
of unwashed women, on the knees of grandfathers smoking pipes, playing under the barrows, sprawling
in the gutters and the alleys. All the babies' faces were sickly and dirty with pathetic, childish
prettinesses asserting themselves against the neglect and the sallowness. One female mite in
a dingy tattered frock sat in an orange-box, surveying the bustling scene with a preternaturally
grave expression, and realizing literally Esther's early conception of the theatre. There was
a sense of blankness in the wanderer's heart, of unfamiliarity in the midst of familiarity.
What had she in common with all this mean wretchedness, with this semi-barbarous breed of beings?
The more she looked, the more her heart sank. There was no flaunting vice, no rowdiness, no
drunkenness, only the squalor of an oriental city without its quaintness and color. She studied
the posters and the shop-windows, and caught old snatches of gossip from the groups in the
butchers' shops--all seemed as of yore. And yet here and there the hand of Time had traced
new inscriptions. For Baruch Emanuel the hand of Time had written a new placard. It was a mixture
of German, bad English and Cockneyese, phonetically spelt in Hebrew letters:

    Mens Solen Und Eelen, 2/6
    Lydies Deeto, 1/6
    Kindersche Deeto, 1/6
    Hier wird gemacht
    Aller Hant Sleepers
      Fur Trebbelers
    Zu De Billigsten Preissen.

Baruch Emanuel had prospered since the days when he wanted "lasters and riveters" without being
able to afford them. He no longer gratuitously advertised Mordecai Schwartz in envious emulation,
for he had several establishments and owned five two-story houses, and was treasurer of his
little synagogue, and spoke of Socialists as an inferior variety of Atheists. Not that all
this bourgeoning was to be counted to leather, for Baruch had developed enterprises in all
directions, having all the versatility of Moses Ansell without his catholic capacity for failure.

The hand of Time had also constructed a "working-men's Métropole" almost opposite Baruch Emanuel's
shop, and papered its outside walls with moral pictorial posters, headed, "Where have you been
to, Thomas Brown?" "Mike and his moke," and so on. Here, single-bedded cabins could be had
as low as fourpence a night. From the journals in a tobacconist's window Esther gathered that
the reading-public had increased, for there were importations from New York, both in jargon
and in pure Hebrew, and from a large poster in Yiddish and English, announcing a public meeting,
she learned of the existence of an off-shoot of the Holy Land League--"The Flowers of Zion
Society--established by East-End youths for the study of Hebrew and the propagation of the
Jewish National Idea." Side by side with this, as if in ironic illustration of the other side
of the life of the Ghetto, was a seeming royal proclamation headed V.R., informing the public
that by order of the Secretary of State for War a sale of wrought-and cast-iron, zinc, canvas,
tools and leather would take place at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich.

