SUCCESSFUL EXPLORATION

THROUGH THE INTERIOR OF

AUSTRALIA,

FROM MELBOURNE TO THE GULF OF CARPENTARIA.

FROM THE JOURNALS AND LETTERS OF

WILLIAM JOHN WILLS.

EDITED BY HIS FATHER, WILLIAM WILLS. 1863.

DEDICATED,

BY PERMISSION,

TO HIS GRACE

THE DUKE OF NEWCASTLE, K.G., ETC., ETC., ETC.

BY HIS GRACE'S

FAITHFUL SERVANT,

WILLIAM WILLS. JANUARY, 1863.

PREFACE.

A life terminating before it had reached its meridian, can scarcely be expected to furnish
materials for an extended biography. But the important position held by my late son, as second
in command in what is now so well-known as the Burke and Wills Exploring Expedition across
the Island Continent of Australia; the complicated duties he undertook as Astronomer, Topographer,
Journalist, and Surveyor; the persevering skill with which he discharged them, suggesting and
regulating the march of the party through a waste of eighteen hundred miles, previously untrodden
by European feet; his courage, patience, and heroic death; his self-denial in desiring to be
left alone in the desert with scarcely a hope of rescue, that his companions might find a chance
for themselves;--these claims on public attention demand that his name should be handed down
to posterity in something more than a mere obituary record, or an official acknowledgment of
services.

A truthful, though brief, memoir of my son's short career, may furnish a stimulating example,
by showing how much can be accomplished in a few years, when habits of prudence and industry
have been acquired in early youth. He fell a victim to errors not originating with himself;
but he resigned his life without a murmur, having devoted it to science and his country.

The following pages are the only tribute a fond and mourning father can offer to the memory
of one who, while living, merited and reciprocated his warmest affections.

WILLIAM WILLS.

London, January, 1863.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER 1. BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

Birth.--Infancy.--Boyhood and Early Education.--Youthful Traits of Character.

CHAPTER 2.

My two Sons leave England for Australia.--Incidents of the Voyage. --Extracts from Journal.--Arrival
at Port Phillip.--Melbourne. --Employed as Shepherds in the Interior.--Mode of Life.--Melbourne
in 1853.--Advice to Immigrants.--Descriptive Letters from the Bush.

CHAPTER 3.

I arrive in Australia.--Join my two Sons at their Sheep-station. --Return to Melbourne and
Remove to Ballaarat.--Visit to Mr. Skene. --My son studies Surveying.--His Rapid Proficiency.--Appointed
to take Charge of a Party.--Letters on various Subjects to his Mother and Brother at Home.

CHAPTER 4.

My Son is appointed to the Magnetic Observatory at Melbourne, under Professor Neumayer.--His
Rapid Advance in the Study of Magnetism and Mineralogy.--Letters to his Relatives at Home,
descriptive of his Pursuits, Wishes, and Sentiments.--First suggestions of his Probable Employment
on the Exploring Expedition.

CHAPTER 5.

Postponement of the Exploring Expedition projected at the beginning of 1860.--My Son's Letter
to his Sister on going into Society.--Mr. Birnie's Opinion of him, and Extract from his Lecture.--Letter
from William to his Mother on Religious Views and Definitions of Faith. --His last Communications
to his family at Home, before the Departure of the Expedition.

CHAPTER 6. THE EXPEDITION.

How the Expedition originated.--Appointment of the Leader, Officers, and Party.--Mr. Robert
O'Hara Burke, Mr. G.J. Landells, Mr. W.J. Wills, Dr. Herman Beckler, Dr. Ludwig Becker, etc.--The
Expedition starts from Melbourne on the 20th of August, 1860. --Progress to Swan Hill.--Discharge
of Mr. Ferguson, the Foreman. --Advance to Menindie.--Resignation of Mr. Landells and Dr. Herman
Beckler.--Mr. Wills promoted to second in command, and Mr. Wright to third.

CHAPTER 7.

From Menindie on the Darling to Torowoto.--Mr. Burke's Despatch, and Mr. Wills's Report from
Torowoto.--Mr. Wright's unaccountable delay at Menindie.--The Expedition proceeds onwards to
Cooper's Creek.--Exploring Trips in that neighbourhood.--Loss of three Camels.--Mr. Wills's
Letter to his Sister, December 6th and 15th. --Incorrectness of McDonough's Statements.

CHAPTER 8.

Mr. Wills's Survey of the line of Country pursued by the Expedition, from Torowoto Swamp to
Cooper's Creek.

CHAPTER 9.

Departure from Cooper's Creek for the Gulf of Carpentaria. --Arrangements for the continuance
of the Depot at Cooper's Creek. --Mr. Brahe left in Charge.--Determination of Route.--Progress
and Incidents.--Mr. Wills's Field Books, from the 16th of December, 1860, to the 30th of January,
1861, 1 to 9.--Shores of Carpentaria.

CHAPTER 10.

Return from Carpentaria to Cooper's Creek.--Mr. Wills's Journals from February 19th to April
21st, 1861.--Illness and Death of Gray. --The Survivors arrive at Cooper's Creek Depot and
find it deserted.--A Small Stock of Provisions left.--Conduct of Brahe. --Report of the Royal
Commission.

CHAPTER 11.

Proceedings in Melbourne.--Meeting of the Exploration Committee. --Tardy Resolutions.--Departure
of Mr. Howitt.--Patriotic Effort of Mr. Orkney.--South Australian Expedition under Mr. McKinlay.--News
of White Men and Camels having been seen by Natives in the Interior.--Certain Intelligence
of the Fate of the Explorers reaches Melbourne.

CHAPTER 12.

The attempt to reach South Australia and Adelaide by Mount Hopeless.--Mistake of selecting
that Route.--Mr. Wills's Journals from the 23rd of April to the 29th of June, 1861.--Adventures
with the Natives.--Discovery of Nardoo as a Substitute for Food.--Mr. Burke and King go in
search of Natives for assistance.--Mr. Wills left alone in the Desert.--The Last Entry in his
Journal.

CHAPTER 13.

King's Narrative.--Mr. Burke and King again go in search of the Natives, as a last resource.--Death
of Mr. Burke.--King returns and finds Mr. Wills dead in the Gunyah.--He falls in with the Natives
and wanders about with them until delivered by Mr. Howitt's party. --Extract from Mr. Howitt's
Diary.--Extract from Mr. McKinlay's Diary.--My Son's last Letter to me, dated June 27th, 1861.--Strong
Attachment between Mr. Burke and my Son.--King delivers the Letter and Watch intrusted to him.--With
some difficulty I recover the Pistol.--King's Reception in Melbourne.--Sir H. Barkly's Letter
to Sir Roderick Murchison.--Summary of Events and their Causes.

CHAPTER 14.

Letters of sympathy and condolence; from Sir Henry Barkly; Major Egerton Warburton; A.J. Baker,
Esquire; P.A. Jennings, Esquire; Dr. Mueller; The Council of Ballaarat East; Robert Watson,
Esquire; John Lavington Evans, Esquire--Meeting at Totnes.--Resolution to erect a Monument
to Mr. Wills.--Proceedings in the Royal Geographical Society of London.--Letter from Sir Roderick
Murchison to Dr. Wills.--Dr. Wills's Reply.--'The Lost Explorers,' a poetical tribute.--Concluding
Observations.

APPENDICES.

ILLUSTRATIONS:

1. THE LAST HOURS OF MR. WILLS.

Painted by Scott. Melbourne. London: Richard Bentley, 1863. Engraved by J. Saddle.

2. WILLIAM J. WILLS.

Painted by Scott. Melbourne. Engraved by J. Brown.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

CHAPTER 1.

William John Wills was born at Totnes, in Devonshire, on the 5th of January, 1834. He had,
therefore, attained the full age of twenty-seven at the time of his death. Even in infancy,
his countenance was interesting and expressive. He began to speak and walk alone before he
had completed his first year. His lively disposition gave ample employment to his nurses, though
I cannot remember that he ever worried one, through peevishness or a fractious temper. As soon
as he could talk distinctly, he evinced an aptitude to name things after his own fancy; and
I may fairly say, that he was never a child in the common acceptation of the term, as he gave
early indications of diligence and discretion scarcely compatible with the helplessness and
simplicity of such tender years. About the time of his completing his third year, Mr. Benthall,
a friend and near neighbour, asked permission to take him for a walk in his garden. The boy
was then in the habit of attending a school for little children, close by, kept by an old lady.
In less than an hour, Mr. Benthall returned to ask if he had come home. No one had seen him,
and we began to be alarmed lest he might have fallen into a well in the garden; but this apprehension
was speedily ascertained to be groundless. Still he returned not, and our alarm increased,
until his mother thought of the school, and there he was found, book in hand, intent on his
lesson. He knew it was the school hour, and while Mr. Benthall was speaking to the gardener,
had managed to give him the slip, passing our own door and proceeding alone to the school,
on the opposite side of the square. Mr. Benthall, who can have seen or heard very little of
him since, was one of the first, on hearing of his recent fate, to send a subscription to his
monument, about to be erected at Totnes. Perhaps he remembered the incident.

Another anecdote of the child bears upon a leading characteristic in the after life of the
man. My late lamented brother, W.T. Wills, who has since died at Belleville, in Upper Canada,
was on a visit at my house from abroad. He had occasion to go to Plymouth and Devonport, and
I engaged to drive him over in a gig. A petition was made to his mother, that little Willy
might accompany us. It was granted, and we put up for the night at the Royal Hotel, at Devonport,
where he became quite a lion. The landlady and servants were much taken by their juvenile visitor.
The next morning, my brother and I had arranged to breakfast at ten, each having early business
of his own to attend to, in different directions. When we returned at the appointed time, the
boy was missing. None of the household had seen him for an hour. Each supposed that someone
else had taken charge of him. After a twenty minutes' search in all directions by the whole
establishment, he was discovered at the window of a nautical instrument maker's shop, eight
or ten doors below the inn, on the same side of the street, within the recess of the door-way,
gazing in riveted attention on the attractive display before him. The owner told me that he
had noticed him for more than an hour in the same place, examining the instruments with the
eye of a connoisseur, as if he understood them. His thirst for knowledge had superseded his
appetite for breakfast. About twelve months subsequent to this date, we had nearly lost him
for ever, in a severe attack of remittent fever. At the end of a fortnight, the danger passed
away and he was restored to us. As he lay in complete prostration from the consequent weakness,
our old and faithful servant, Anne Winter, who seldom left him, became fearful that his intellects
might be affected; and I shall never forget her heartfelt delight and thankfulness when she
saw him notice and laugh at the ludicrous incident of a neighbour's tame magpie hopping upon
his bed. The effect of this fever was to alter the contour of his features permanently, to
a longer shape, giving him a more striking resemblance to his mother's family than to mine.
His utterance, also, which had been voluble, became slow and slightly hesitating.

For some time after this he resided at home, under my own tuition. Our intercourse, even at
this early age, was that of friendly companionship. Instructing him was no task; his natural
diligence relieved me from all trouble in fixing his attention. We were both fond of history.
From what I recollect, he took more interest in that of Rome than of Greece or England. Virgil
and Pope were his favourite poets. He was very earnest with his mother in studying the principles
of the Christian religion. More than once my wife remarked, "that boy astonishes me by the
shrewdness with which he puts questions on different points of doctrine." In his readings with
me he was never satisfied with bare statements unaccompanied by reasons. He was always for
arguing the matter before taking either side. One question, when very young, he would again
and again recur to, as a matter on which the truth should be elicited. This was a saying of
our old servant, above named, when she broke either glass or earthenware: that "it was good
for trade." His ideas of political economy would not permit him to allow that this axiom was
a sound one for the benefit of the state; and on this point, I think, Adam Smith and Malthus
would scarcely disagree.

The pleasure I enjoyed in my son's society when a boy, was greater than that which intercourse
with many grown men contributed; for I may strictly repeat, as I have already said, that he
was never a child in intellect although juvenile enough in habits and manners. He never made
foolish remarks, although not in the slightest degree uncomfortably precocious or pragmatical.
I had no fear of trusting him with anything, and was often reproved for allowing so young a
child to handle a gun, which he was accustomed to do as early as eleven years of age. His first
practice was on some young rooks which he brought down with unerring aim, from a rookery on
the grounds at our country residence. He was so particular in his general demeanour that I
designated him Gentleman John, and my Royal Boy. His brothers, all younger than himself, styled
him, Old Jack, and Gentleman Jack. He had a wonderful power of attaching animals of all kinds.
Nothing moved him to anger so readily as seeing one ill-used. Beating a horse savagely would
excite his disgust, as well as his dislike to the person who did it. Not having a dog, he used
to take a fine cat we had, which would accompany him to any distance in the fields, and hunt
the hedges and hedgerows for him. Never feeling that I could have too much of his company,
I frequently made him my companion in long country walks, during which he incessantly asked
for information. For the science of astronomy he evinced an early taste. When a very little
boy, I began to teach him the names and positions of the principal constellations, the revolutions
of the earth on its axis, and the fixity of the polar star. I believe we were the first to
notice a comet in 1845, which was only a short time visible here, having a south declination,
and which we afterwards knew to have been a fine object in the Southern hemisphere.

At the age of eleven he went to school at Ashburton. Although the distance was not more than
six miles from the cottage of Ipplepen, my then general place of residence, it was with much
reluctance that I consented to the separation. Several friends urged on me that I was not doing
him justice by keeping him at home; that a public seminary where he could mix with other boys
was an advantage, even though he might not learn more. It also happened that, at this time,
a gentleman with whom I had been long acquainted, and of whose talents I held a high opinion,
was elected to the head-mastership of that school, which held its chief endowments from Gifford,
the satiric poet, and Dr. Ireland, the late Dean of Westminster. I remember how I returned
in gloomy spirits after leaving him there. As I had four other children, it may be said that
I showed undue partiality for this one, but my conscience clears me from the charge. I deeply
felt the loss of his companionship. He was so suggestive that he set me thinking; and whilst
I was endeavouring to teach, I acquired more knowledge than I imparted. There was nothing remarkable
in his progress at school. I experienced no disappointment because he did not return home at
the end of every half-year with the head prize. He merely brought his six months' bill, and
a letter commending his steady diligence and uniform propriety of conduct. In viva voce examinations
he had scarcely an equal chance with one of inferior intellect who might be quicker in expression;
for besides the trifling hesitation of speech I have already noticed, he would have been ashamed
to give a wrong answer from eagerness. A remark of Mr. Page, his tutor, confirmed me in my
own previous impression on this point. "It vexes me," he said, "that John does not take a top
prize, for I see by his countenance that he understands as much, if not more, than any boy
in my school; yet from want of readiness in answering he allows very inferior lads to win the
tickets from him." On the whole, I think he derived much benefit from Ashburton; for besides
his scholastic improvement he became an adept at the usual games, and a social favourite out
of school hours.

At the age of sixteen he left the grammar-school, and I find the 30th of May, 1850, to be the
date of his articles to me as surgeon. I had at that time taken a partner, Henry Manly, Esquire,
now resident at Ipplepen, with a view of introducing and resigning to him my Ipplepen practice.
Being in a country place, five miles from Totnes, where there was no chemist or dispensary,
my son readily acquired his duties, which were to distribute the medicines and appliances directed
for our patients by my partner and myself. In all cases his caution was extreme and we had
no fear of his making mistakes. The ordinary operations of extracting a tooth or breathing
a vein when a bumpkin presented himself as a patient, he speedily mastered. The absurd practice
of going to be bled on any occasion that might strike the fancy of the party, without the advice
of the doctor, was not at that time so completely obsolete as in this advanced age I hope it
is, and ought to be. I remember, during the time of my own articles, that I frequently performed
venesection five or six times in a day on persons who requested and fancied they required it;
and I seldom indulged in the liberty of asking, wherefore.

In 1851, I took my son to London to show him the Great Exhibition. His chief attractions there,
were the instruments and mechanical inventions. If, after a day or two, I chanced to deviate
from the leading thoroughfares and missed my way, he would set me right in a moment. This was
rather mortifying to one who fancied himself well acquainted with London from frequent visits,
but he smiled when he saw I was not a true guide. I asked him how he acquired this apt knowledge.
"On the second day," he replied, "when you were out, I took the map and studied it for two
hours, so that now I am well versed in it." My subsequent experience made me think he had some
instinctive power in matters like these, such as horses and carrier-pigeons possess, for the
darkest night never baulked him. On a visit to Windsor, being told that it was considered a
feat to climb the statue of King George the Third at the end of the long walk, he accomplished
it in a very short time. At Hampton Court he unravelled the mystery of the Maze in ten minutes
and grew quite familiar with all its ins and outs.

