Our readers will probably remember that the result of several communications which appeared
in our columns on the subject of the celebrated Treatise of Equivocation, found in the chambers
of Tresham, and produced at the trial of the persons engaged in the Gunpowder Plot, was a letter
from a correspondent (J. B., Vol. ii., p. 168.) announcing that the identical MS. copy of the
work referred to by Sir Edward Coke on the occasion in question, was safely preserved in the
Bodleian Library. It was not to be supposed that a document of such great historical interest,
which had been long sought after, should, when discovered, be suffered to remain unprinted;
and Mr. Jardine, the accomplished editor of the Criminal Trials (the second volume of which,
it will be remembered, is entirely devoted to a very masterly narrative of the Gunpowder Plot),
has accordingly produced a very carefully prepared edition of the Tract in question; introduced
by a preface, in which its historical importance is alone discussed, the object of the publication
being not controversial but historical. "To obviate," says Mr. Jardine, "any misapprehension
of the design in publishing it at a time when events of a peculiar character have drawn much
animadversion upon the principles of the Roman Catholics, it should be stated that the Treatise
would have been published ten years ago, had the inquiries then made led to its discovery;
and that it is now published within a few weeks after the manuscript has been brought to light
in the Bodleian Library." The work is one of the most important contributions to English history
which has recently been put forth, and Mr. Jardine deserves the highest credit for the manner
in which he was discharged his editorial duties.

Horæ Egyptiacæ, or the Chronology of Ancient Egypt discovered from Astronomical and Hieroglyphical
Records, including many dates found in coeval inscriptions from the period of the building
of the great Pyramid to the times of the Persians, and illustrative of the History of the first
Nineteen Dynasties, &c., by Reginald Stuart Poole, is the ample title of a work dedicated to
the Duke of Northumberland, under whose auspices it has been produced. The work, which is intended
to explain the Chronology and History of Ancient Egypt from its monuments, originally appeared
in a series of {399} papers in the Literary Gazette. These have been improved, the calculations
contained in them subjected to the most rigid scrutiny; and when we say that in the preparation
of this volume Mr. Poole has had assistance from Mr. Lane, Mr. and Mrs. Lieber of Cairo, Dr.
Abbot of Cairo, Mr. Birch of the British Museum, Professor Airy, and, lastly, of Sir Gardener
Wilkinson, who, in his Architecture of Ancient Egypt, avows that "he fully agrees with Mr.
Poole in the contemporaneousness of certain kings, and in the order of succession he gives
to the early Pharaohs," we do quite enough to recommend it to the attention of all students
of the History and Monuments of Ancient Egypt.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Plato Translated by G. Burges, vol. 4. The new volume of Bohn's Classical
Library is in the fourth volume of the Translation of Plato, which, strange as it may sound
to those of our readers who know anything of what is essential to a popular book in these days,
has, we believe, been one of the most popular of the many cheap books issued by Mr. Bohn. How
much the impression made on the public mind by the well-worn quotation, "Plato, thou reasonest
well," may have contributed to this result, we leave others to decide.--What is the working
of the Church of Spain? What is implied in submitting to Rome? What is it that presses hardest
upon the Church of England? A Tract by the Rev. F. Meyrick, M.A. London: J. H. Parker. These
are three very important Queries, but obviously not of a nature for discussion in NOTES AND
QUERIES.--The Penny Post, I. to IV., February to May. The words "thirtieth thousand" on the
title-page, show the success which has already attended this Church Penny Magazine. Great Turnstile)
List No. XXXV. of very Cheap Books; C. Hamilton's (22. Anderson's Buildings, City Road) Catalogue
No. XLII. of a remarkably Cheap Miscellaneous Collection of Old Books, Tracts, &c.; G. Johnston's
(11. Goodge Street, Tottenham Court Road) Book Circular.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

DIANA (ANTONINUS) COMPENDIUM RESOLUTIONEM MORALIUM. Antwerp.-Colon. 1634-57.

THE COMPLAYNT OF SCOTLAND, edited by Leyden. 8vo. Edin.

L'ABBÉ DE SAINT PIERRE, PROJET DE PAIX PERPETUELLE. 3 Vols. 12mo. Utrecht, 1713.

CHEVALIER RAMSAY, ESSAI DE POLITIQUE, où l'on traite de la Nécessité, de l'Origine, des Droits,
des Bornes et des différentes Formes de la Souveraineté, selon les Principes de l'Auteur de
Télémaque. 2 Vols. 12mo. La Haye, without date, but printed in 1719.

The same. Second Edition, under the title "Essai Philosophique sur le Gouvernement Civil, selon
les Principes de Fénélon," 12mo. Londres, 1721.

MILLER'S (JOHN, OF WORCESTER COLL.) SERMONS. Oxford, 1831 (or about that year).

WHARTON'S ANGLIA SACRA. Vol. II.

PHEBUS (Gaston, Conte de Foix), Livre du deduyt de la Chasse.

TURNER'S SACRED HISTORY. The Query to which he alludes came from a gentleman who has shown
by his published works that he is both able and willing to search out information for himself.
It is the more surprising, therefore, that he should have overlooked the very obvious source
from which the information was eventually supplied.

We are unavoidably compelled to omit from the present Number our usual list of Replies Received.

FOREIGN CHURCHES. W. A. thinks we should be doing a kindness to our foreign visitors by reminding
them of the existence of the Dutch Church in Austin Friars, and of the Swedish Church, Prince's
Square, Ratcliffe Highway, around which are yet flourishing some of the trees imported and
planted by Dr. Solander.

MERCURII is thanked for his last packet. We shall make use of some parts of it when we return,
as we purpose doing very shortly, to the proposed Record of Existing Monuments. We cannot trace
the Queries to which he refers. Will he oblige us with copies of them?

E. H. Y. Will our correspondent say where we may address a communication to him? 6d.

THE FAIRY GODMOTHER and other Tales. By Mrs. ALFRED GATTY.

    "Her love for Fairy Literature has led Mrs. Alfred Gatty to compose
    four pretty little moral stories, in which the fairies are gracefully
    enough used as machinery. They are slight, but well written, and the
    book is altogether very nicely put out of hand."--Guardian.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Published, 8vo., price 7s. 6d.

THE THEORY OF ELLIPTIC INTEGRALS, and the PROPERTIES of SURFACES of the Second Order, applied
to the Investigation of the Motion of a Body round a Fixed Point. By JAMES BOOTH, LL.D., F.R.S.,
&c., Chaplain to the Most Honourable the Marquess of Lansdowne, and formerly Principal of Bristol
College.

London: GEORGE BELL, Fleet Street. Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. MURRAY'S WORK ON HORACE.

This day is published, price 9s.

ORIGINAL VIEWS OF PASSAGES IN THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF THE POET-PHILOSOPHER OF VENUSIA: with
which is combined an Illustration of the Suitability of the Ancient Epic and Lyric Styles to
Modern Subjects of National and General Interest. By JOHN MURRAY, M.A., Royal Gold Medalist
in "Science and Arts," by award of His Majesty the King of Prussia; First Junior Moderator
in Ethics and Logic: Ex-Scholar and Lay Resident Master of Trinity College, Dublin.

