Inserting a pipette through the keyhole and cautiously applying my eye, I saw to my delight
that the Crinoline had been elevated on a series of steel rods about six feet high, and that
the five Wenuses who had descended in it were partaking of a light but sumptuous repast beneath
its iridescent canopy. They were seated round a tripod imbibing a brown beverage from small
vessels resembling the half of a hollow sphere, and eating with incredible velocity a quantity
of tiny round coloured objects--closely related, as I subsequently had occasion to ascertain,
to the Bellaria angelica,--which they raised to their mouths with astonishing and unerring
aim in the complex Handling-Machines, or Tenticklers, which form part of their wonderful organism.

Belonging as they undoubtedly do to the order of the Tunicates, their exquisitely appropriate
and elegant costume may be safely allowed to speak for itself. It is enough, however, to note
the curious fact that there are no buttons in Wenus, and that their mechanical system is remarkable,
incredible as it may seem, for having developed the eye to the rarest point of perfection while
dispensing entirely with the hook. The bare idea of this is no doubt terribly repulsive to
us, but at the same time I think we should remember how indescribably repulsive our sartorial
habits must seem to an intelligent armadillo.

Of the peculiar coralline tint of the Wenuses' complexion, I think I have already spoken. That
it was developed by their indulgence in the Red Weed has been, I think, satisfactorily proved
by the researches of Dr. Moreau, who also shows that the visual range of their eyes was much
the same as ours, except that blue and yellow were alike to them. Moreau established this by
a very pretty experiment with a Yellow Book and a Blue Book, each of which elicited exactly
the same remark, a curious hooting sound, strangely resembling the ut de poitrine of one of
Professor Garner's gorillas.

After concluding their repast, the Wenuses, still unaware of my patient scrutiny, extracted,
with the aid of their glittering tintackles, a large packet of Red Weed from a quasi-marsupial
pouch in the roof of the Crinoline, and in an incredibly short space of time had rolled its
carmine tendrils into slim cylinders, and inserted them within their lips. The external ends
suddenly ignited as though by spontaneous combustion; but in reality that result was effected
by the simple process of deflecting the optic ray. Clouds of roseate vapour, ascending to the
dome of the canopy, partially obscured the sumptuous contours of these celestial invaders;
while a soft crooning sound, indicative of utter contentment, or as Professor Nestlé of the
Milky Ray has more prosaically explained it, due to expiration of air preparatory to the suctional
operation involved in the use of the Red Weed, added an indescribable glamour to the enchantment
of the scene.

Humiliating as it may seem to the scientific reader, I found it impossible to maintain a Platonic
attitude any longer; and applying my mouth to the embouchure of the pipette, warbled faintly
in an exquisite falsetto:

"Ulat tanalareezul Savourneen Dheelish tradioun marexil Vi-Koko for the hair. I want yer, ma
honey."

The effect was nothing short of magical. The rhythmic exhalations ceased instanteously, and
the tallest and most fluorescent of the Wenuses, laying aside her Red Weed, replied in a low
voice thrilling with kinetic emotion:

"Phreata mou sas agapo!"

The sentiment of these remarks was unmistakable, though to my shame I confess I was unable
to fathom their meaning, and I was on the point of opening the scullery door and rushing out
to declare myself, when I heard a loud banging from the front of the house.

I stumbled up the kitchen stairs, hampered considerably by my wife's skirt; and, by the time
I had reached the hall, recognised the raucous accents of Professor Tibbles, the Classical
Examiner, shouting in excited tones:

"Let me in, let me in!"

I opened the door as far as it would go without unfastening the chain, and the Professor at
once thrust in his head, remaining jammed in the aperture.

"Let me in!" he shouted. "I'm the only man in London besides yourself that hasn't been pulped
by the Mash-Glance."

He then began to jabber lines from the classics, and examples from the Latin grammar.

A sudden thought occurred to me. Perhaps he might translate the observation of the Wenus. Should
I use him as an interpreter? But a moment's reflection served to convince me of the danger
of such a plan. The Professor, already exacerbated by the study of the humanities, was in a
state of acute erethism. I thought of the curate, and, maddened by the recollection of all
I had suffered, drew the bread-knife from my waist-belt, and shouting, "Go to join your dead
languages!" stabbed him up to the maker's name in the semi-lunar ganglion. His head drooped,
and he expired.

I stood petrified, staring at his glazing eyes; then, turning to make for the scullery, was
confronted by the catastrophic apparition of the tallest Wenus gazing at me with reproachful
eyes and extended tentacles. Disgust at my cruel act and horror at my extraordinary habiliments
were written all too plainly in her seraphic lineaments. At least, so I thought. But it turned
out to be otherwise; for the Wenus produced from behind her superlatively radiant form a lump
of slate which she had extracted from the coal-box.

"Decepti estis, O Puteoli!" she said.

"I beg your pardon," I replied; "but I fail to grasp your meaning."

"She means," said the Examiner, raising himself for another last effort, "that it is time you
changed your coal merchant," and so saying he died again.

I was thunderstruck: the Wenuses understood coals!

And then I ran; I could stand it no longer. The game was up, the cosmic game for which I had
laboured so long and strenuously, and with one despairing yell of "Ulla! Ulla!" I unfastened
the chain, and, leaping over the limp and prostrate form of the unhappy Tibbles, fled darkling
down the deserted street.

II.

THE MAN AT UXBRIDGE ROAD.

At the corner a happy thought struck me: the landlord of the "Dog and Measles" kept a motor
car. I found him in his bar and killed him. Then I broke open the stable and let loose the
motor car. It was very restive, and I had to pat it. "Goo' Tea Rose," I said soothingly, "goo'
Rockefeller, then." It became quiet, and I struck a match and started the paraffinalia, and
in a moment we were under weigh.

I am not an expert motist, although at school I was a fairly good hoop-driver, and the pedestrians
I met and overtook had a bad time. One man said, as he bound up a punctured thigh, that the
Heat Ray of the Martians was nothing compared with me. I was moting towards Leatherhead, where
my cousin lived, when the streak of light caused by the Third Crinoline curdled the paraffin
tank. Vain was it to throw water on the troubled oil; the mischief was done. Meanwhile a storm
broke. The lightning flashed, the rain beat against my face, the night was exceptionally dark,
and to add to my difficulties the motor took the wick between its teeth and fairly bolted.

No one who has never seen an automobile during a spasm of motor ataxy can have any idea of
what I suffered. I held the middle of the way for a few yards, but just opposite Uxbridge Road
Station I turned the wheel hard a-port, and the motor car overturned. Two men sprang from nowhere,
as men will, and sat on its occiput, while I crawled into Uxbridge Road Station and painfully
descended the stairs.

I found the platform empty save for a colony of sturdy little newsboys, whose stalwart determination
to live filled me with admiration, which I was enjoying until a curious sibillation beneath
the bookstall stirred me with panic.

Suddenly, from under a bundle of British Weeklies, there emerged a head, and gradually a man
crawled out. It was the Artilleryman.

"I'm burning hot," he said; "it's a touch of--what is it?--erethism."

His voice was hoarse, and his Remarks, like the Man of Kent's, were Rambling.

"Where do you come from?" he said.

"I come from Woking," I replied, "and my nature is Wobbly. I love my love with a W because
she is Woluptuous. I took her to the sign of the Wombat and read her The War of the Worlds,
and treated her to Winkles, Winolia and Wimbos. Her name is Wenus, and she comes from the Milky
Way."

He looked at me doubtfully, then shot out a pointed tongue.

"It is you," he said, "the man from Woking. The Johnny what writes for Nature. By the way,"
he interjected, "don't you think some of your stuff is too--what is it?--esoteric? The man,"
he continued, "as killed the curate in the last book. By the way, it was you as killed the curate?"

"Artilleryman," I replied, "I cannot tell a lie. I did it with my little meat-chopper. And
you, I presume, are the Artilleryman who attended my lectures on the Eroticism of the Elasmobranch?"

"That's me," he said; "but Lord, how you've changed. Only a fortnight ago, and now you're stone-bald!"

I stared, marvelling at his gift of perception.

"What have you been living on?" I asked.

"Oh," he said, "immature potatoes and Burgundy" (I give the catalogue so precisely because
it has nothing to do with the story), "uncooked steak and limp lettuces, precocious carrots
and Bartlett pears, and thirteen varieties of fluid beef, which I cannot name except at the
usual advertisement rates."

"But can you sleep after it?" said I.

"Blimy! yes," he replied; "I'm fairly--what is it?--eupeptic."

"It's all over with mankind," I muttered.

"It is all over," he replied. "The Wenuses 'ave only lost one Crinoline, just one, and they
keep on coming; they're falling somewhere every night. Nothing's to be done. We're beat!"

I made no answer. I sat staring, pulverised by the colossal intellectuality of this untutored
private. He had attended only three of my lectures, and had never taken any notes.

"This isn't a war," he resumed; "it never was a war. These 'ere Wenuses they wants to be Mas,
that's the long and the short of it. Only----"

"Yes?" I said, more than ever impressed by the man's pyramidal intuition.

"They can't stand the climate. They're too--what is it?--exotic."

We sat staring at each other.

"And what will they do?" I humbly asked, grovelling unscientifically at his feet.

"That's what I've been thinking," said the gunner. "I ain't an ornamental soldier, but I've
a good deal of cosmic kinetic optimism, and it's the cosmic kinetic optimist what comes through.
Now these Wenuses don't want to wipe us all out. It's the women they want to exterminate. They
want to collar the men, and you'll see that after a bit they'll begin catching us, picking
the best, and feeding us up in cages and men-coops."

"Good heavens!" I exclaimed; "but you are a man of genius indeed," and I flung my arms around
his neck.

"Steady on!" he said; "don't be so--what is it?--ebullient."

"And what then?" I asked, when my emotion had somewhat subsided.

"Then," said he, "the others must be wary. You and I are mean little cusses: we shall get off.
They won't want us. And what do we do? Take to the drains!" He looked at me triumphantly.

Quailing before his glory of intellect, I fainted.

"Are you sure?" I managed to gasp, on recovering consciousness.

"Yes," he said, "sewer. The drains are the places for you and me. Then we shall play cricket--a
narrow drain makes a wonderful pitch--and read the good books--not poetry swipes, and stuff
like that, but good books. That's where men like you come in. Your books are the sort: The
Time Machine, and Round the World in Eighty Days, The Wonderful Wisit, and From the Earth to
the Moon, and----"

"Stop!" I cried, nettled at his stupidity. "You are confusing another author and myself."

"Was I?" he said, "that's rum, but I always mix you up with the man you admire so much--Jools
Werne. And," he added with a sly look, "you do admire him, don't you?"

In a flash I saw the man plain. He was a critic. I knew my duty at once: I must kill him. I
did not want to kill him, because I had already killed enough--the curate in the last book,
and the Examiner and the landlord of the "Dog and Measles" in this,--but an author alone with
a critic in deserted London! What else could I do?

He seemed to divine my thought.

"There's some immature champagne in the cellar," he said.

"No," I replied, thinking aloud; "too slow, too slow."

He endeavoured to pacify me.

"Let me teach you a game," he said.

He taught me one--he taught me several. We began with "Spadille," we ended with "Halma" and
"Snap," for parliament points. That is to say, instead of counters we used M.Ps. Grotesque
and foolish as this will seem to the sober reader, it is absolutely true. Strange mind of man!
that, with our species being mashed all around, we could sit following the chance of this painted
pasteboard.

Afterwards we tried "Tiddleywinks" and "Squails," and I beat him so persistently that both
sides of the House were mine and my geniality entirely returned. He might have been living
to this hour had he not mentioned something about the brutality of The Island of Dr. Moreau.
That settled it. I had heard that absurd charge once too often, and raising my Blaisdell binaural
stethoscope I leaped upon him. With one last touch of humanity, I turned the orbicular ivory
plate towards him and struck him to the earth.

At that moment fell the Fourth Crinoline.

III.

THE TEA-TRAY IN WESTBOURNE GROVE.

My wife's plan of campaign was simple but masterly. She would enlist an army of enormous bulk,
march on the Wenuses in Westbourne Grove, and wipe them from the face of the earth.

Such was my wife's project. My wife's first step was to obtain, as the nucleus of attack, those
women to whom the total loss of men would be most disastrous. They flocked to my wife's banner,
which was raised in Regent's Park, in front of the pavilion where tea is provided by a maternal
County Council.

My mother, who joined the forces and therefore witnessed the muster, tells me it was a most
impressive sight. My wife, in a nickel-plated Russian blouse, trimmed with celluloid pom-pons,
aluminium pantaloons, and a pair of Norwegian Skis, looked magnificent.

An old Guard, primed with recent articles from the Queen by Mrs. Lynn Linton, marched in a
place of honour; and a small squadron of confirmed misogynists, recruited from the Athenaeum,
the Travellers' and the Senior United Service Clubs, who professed themselves to be completely
Mash-proof, were in charge of the ambulance. The members of the Ladies' Kennel Club, attended
by a choice selection of carefully-trained Chows, Schipperkes, Whippets and Griffons, garrisoned
various outposts.

The Pioneers joined my wife's ranks with some hesitation. The prospects of a world depleted
of men did not seem (says my mother) to fill them with that consternation which was evident
in my wife and her more zealous lieutenants. But after a heated discussion at the Club-house,
which was marked by several resignations, it was decided to join in the attack. A regiment
of Pioneers therefore, marching to the battle-chant of Walt Whitman's "Pioneers, O Pioneers!"
brought up (says my mother) the rear.

