XIX.  Of the two other competitors for the consulship, Lucius Luceius and Marcus Bibulus, he
joined with the former, upon condition that Luceius, being a man of less interest but greater
affluence, should promise money to the electors, in their joint names.  Upon which the party
of the nobles, dreading how far he might carry matters in that high office, with a colleague
disposed to concur in and second his measures, advised Bibulus to promise the voters as much
as the other; and most of them contributed towards the expense, Cato himself admitting that
bribery; under such circumstances, was for the public good [42].  He was accordingly elected
consul jointly with Bibulus.  Actuated still by the same motives, the prevailing party took
care to assign provinces of small importance to the new consuls, such as the care of the woods
and roads. Caesar, incensed at this indignity, endeavoured by the most assiduous and flattering
attentions to gain to his side Cneius Pompey, at that time dissatisfied with the senate for
the backwardness they shewed to confirm his acts, after his victories over Mithridates.  He
likewise brought about a reconciliation between Pompey and Marcus Crassus, who had been at
variance from (13) the time of their joint consulship, in which office they were continually
clashing; and he entered into an agreement with both, that nothing should be transacted in
the government, which was displeasing to any of the three.

XX.  Having entered upon his office [43], he introduced a new regulation, that the daily acts
both of the senate and people should be committed to writing, and published [44].  He also
revived an old custom, that an officer [45] should precede him, and his lictors follow him,
on the alternate months when the fasces were not carried before him.  Upon preferring a bill
to the people for the division of some public lands, he was opposed by his colleague, whom
he violently drove out of the forum. Next day the insulted consul made a complaint in the senate
of this treatment; but such was the consternation, that no one having the courage to bring
the matter forward or move a censure, which had been often done under outrages of less importance,
he was so much dispirited, that until the expiration of his office he never stirred from home,
and did nothing but issue edicts to obstruct his colleague's proceedings.  From that time,
therefore, Caesar had the sole management of public affairs; insomuch that some wags, when
they signed any instrument as witnesses, did not add "in the consulship of Caesar and Bibulus,"
but, "of Julius and Caesar;" putting the same person down twice, under his name and surname.
The following verses likewise were currently repeated on this occasion:

    Non Bibulo quidquam nuper, sed Caesare factum est;
      Nam Bibulo fieri consule nil memini.

          Nothing was done in Bibulus's year:
          No; Caesar only then was consul here.

(14) The land of Stellas, consecrated by our ancestors to the gods, with some other lands in
Campania left subject to tribute, for the support of the expenses of the government, he divided,
but not by lot, among upwards of twenty thousand freemen, who had each of them three or more
children. He eased the publicans, upon their petition, of a third part of the sum which they
had engaged to pay into the public treasury; and openly admonished them not to bid so extravagantly
upon the next occasion.  He made various profuse grants to meet the wishes of others, no one
opposing him; or if any such attempt was made, it was soon suppressed.  Marcus Cato, who interrupted
him in his proceedings, he ordered to be dragged out of the senate-house by a lictor, and carried
to prison.  Lucius Lucullus, likewise, for opposing him with some warmth, he so terrified with
the apprehension of being criminated, that, to deprecate the consul's resentment, he fell on
his knees.  And upon Cicero's lamenting in some trial the miserable condition of the times,
he the very same day, by nine o'clock, transferred his enemy, Publius Clodius, from a patrician
to a plebeian family; a change which he had long solicited in vain [46]. At last, effectually
to intimidate all those of the opposite party, he by great rewards prevailed upon Vettius to
declare, that he had been solicited by certain persons to assassinate Pompey; and when he was
brought before the rostra to name those who had been concerted between them, after naming one
or two to no purpose, not without great suspicion of subornation, Caesar, despairing of success
in this rash stratagem, is supposed to have taken off his informer by poison.

XXI.  About the same time he married Calpurnia, the daughter of Lucius Piso, who was to succeed
him in the consulship, and gave his own daughter Julia to Cneius Pompey; rejecting Servilius
Caepio, to whom she had been contracted, and by whose means chiefly he had but a little before
baffled Bibulus.  After this new alliance, he began, upon any debates in the senate, to ask
Pompey's opinion first, whereas he used before to give that distinction to Marcus Crassus;
and it was (15) the usual practice for the consul to observe throughout the year the method
of consulting the senate which he had adopted on the calends (the first) of January.

XXII.  Being, therefore, now supported by the interest of his father-in-law and son-in-law,
of all the provinces he made choice of Gaul, as most likely to furnish him with matter and
occasion for triumphs.  At first indeed he received only Cisalpine-Gaul, with the addition
of Illyricum, by a decree proposed by Vatinius to the people; but soon afterwards obtained
from the senate Gallia-Comata [47] also, the senators being apprehensive, that if they should
refuse it him, that province, also, would be granted him by the people.  Elated now with his
success, he could not refrain from boasting, a few days afterwards, in a full senate-house,
that he had, in spite of his enemies, and to their great mortification, obtained all he desired,
and that for the future he would make them, to their shame, submissive to his pleasure.

XXIII.  When the term of his consulship had expired, upon a motion being made in the senate
by Caius Memmius and Lucius Domitius, the praetors, respecting the transactions of the year
past, he offered to refer himself to the house; but (16) they declining the business, after
three days spent in vain altercation, he set out for his province.  Immediately, however, his
quaestor was charged with several misdemeanors, for the purpose of implicating Caesar himself.
Indeed, an accusation was soon after preferred against him by Lucius Antistius, tribune of
the people; but by making an appeal to the tribune's colleagues, he succeeded in having the
prosecution suspended during his absence in the service of the state.  To secure himself, therefore,
for the time to come, he was particularly careful to secure the good-will of the magistrates
at the annual elections, assisting none of the candidates with his interest, nor suffering
any persons to be advanced to any office, who would not positively undertake to defend him
in his absence for which purpose he made no scruple to require of some of them an oath, and
even a written obligation.

XXIV.  But when Lucius Domitius became a candidate for the consulship, and openly threatened
that, upon his being elected consul, he would effect that which he could not accomplish when
he was praetor, and divest him of the command of the armies, he sent for Crassus and Pompey
to Lucca, a city in his province, and pressed them, for the purpose of disappointing Domitius,
to sue again for the consulship, and to continue him in his command for five years longer;
with both which requisitions they complied.  Presumptuous now from his success, he added, at
his own private charge, more legions to those which he had received from the republic; among
the former of which was one levied in Transalpine Gaul, and called by a Gallic name, Alauda
[49], which he trained and armed in the Roman fashion, and afterwards conferred on it the freedom
of the city.  From this period he declined no occasion of war, however unjust and dangerous;
attacking, without any provocation, as well the allies of Rome as the barbarous nations which
were its enemies: insomuch, that the senate passed a decree for sending commissioners to examine
into the condition of Gaul; and some members even proposed that he should be delivered up to
the enemy.  But so great had been the success of his enterprises, that he had the honour of
obtaining more days [50] (17) of supplication, and those more frequently, than had ever before
been decreed to any commander.

XXV.  During nine years in which he held the government of the province, his achievements were
as follows: he reduced all Gaul, bounded by the Pyrenean forest, the Alps, mount Gebenna, and
the two rivers, the Rhine and the Rhone, and being about three thousand two hundred miles in
compass, into the form of a province, excepting only the nations in alliance with the republic,
and such as had merited his favour; imposing upon this new acquisition an annual tribute of
forty millions of sesterces.  He was the first of the Romans who, crossing the Rhine by a bridge,
attacked the Germanic tribes inhabiting the country beyond that river, whom he defeated in
several engagements.  He also invaded the Britons, a people formerly unknown, and having vanquished
them, exacted from them contributions and hostages.  Amidst such a series of successes, he
experienced thrice only any signal disaster; once in Britain, when his fleet was nearly wrecked
in a storm; in Gaul, at Gergovia, where one of his legions was put to the rout; and in the
territory of the Germans, his lieutenants Titurius and Aurunculeius were cut off by an ambuscade.

XXVI.  During this period [51] he lost his mother [52], whose death was followed by that of
his daughter [53], and, not long afterwards, of his granddaughter.  Meanwhile, the republic
being in consternation at the murder of Publius Clodius, and the senate passing a vote that
only one consul, namely, Cneius Pompeius, should be chosen for the ensuing year, he prevailed
with the tribunes of the people, who intended joining him in nomination with Pompey, to propose
to the people a bill, enabling him, though absent, to become a candidate for his second consulship,
when the term of his command should be near expiring, that he might not be obliged on that
account to quit his province too soon, and before the conclusion of the war.  Having attained
this object, carrying his views still higher, and animated with the hopes of success, he omitted
no (18) opportunity of gaining universal favour, by acts of liberality and kindness to individuals,
both in public and private.  With money raised from the spoils of the war, he began to construct
a new forum, the ground-plot of which cost him above a hundred millions of sesterces [54].
He promised the people a public entertainment of gladiators, and a feast in memory of his daughter,
such as no one before him had ever given.  The more to raise their expectations on this occasion,
although he had agreed with victuallers of all denominations for his feast, he made yet farther
preparations in private houses.  He issued an order, that the most celebrated gladiators, if
at any time during the combat they incurred the displeasure of the public, should be immediately
carried off by force, and reserved for some future occasion.  Young gladiators he trained up,
not in the school, and by the masters, of defence, but in the houses of Roman knights, and
even senators, skilled in the use of arms, earnestly requesting them, as appears from his letters,
to undertake the discipline of those novitiates, and to give them the word during their exercises.
He doubled the pay of the legions in perpetuity; allowing them likewise corn, when it was in
plenty, without any restriction; and sometimes distributing to every soldier in his army a
slave, and a portion of land.

XXVII.  To maintain his alliance and good understanding with Pompey, he offered him in marriage
his sister's grand-daughter Octavia, who had been married to Caius Marcellus; and requested
for himself his daughter, lately contracted to Faustus Sylla.  Every person about him, and
a great part likewise of the senate, he secured by loans of money at low interest, or none
at all; and to all others who came to wait upon him, either by invitation or of their own accord,
he made liberal presents; not neglecting even the freed-men and slaves, who were favourites
with their masters and patrons.  He offered also singular and ready aid to all who were under
prosecution, or in debt, and to prodigal youths; excluding from (19) his bounty those only
who were so deeply plunged in guilt, poverty, or luxury, that it was impossible effectually
to relieve them. These, he openly declared, could derive no benefit from any other means than
a civil war.

XXVIII.  He endeavoured with equal assiduity to engage in his interest princes and provinces
in every part of the world; presenting some with thousands of captives, and sending to others
the assistance of troops, at whatever time and place they desired, without any authority from
either the senate or people of Rome.  He likewise embellished with magnificent public buildings
the most powerful cities not only of Italy, Gaul, and Spain, but of Greece and Asia; until
all people being now astonished, and speculating on the obvious tendency of these proceedings,
Claudius Marcellus, the consul, declaring first by proclamation, that he intended to propose
a measure of the utmost importance to the state, made a motion in the senate that some person
should be appointed to succeed Caesar in his province, before the term of his command was expired;
because the war being brought to a conclusion, peace was restored, and the victorious army
ought to be disbanded.  He further moved, that Caesar being absent, his claims to be a candidate
at the next election of consuls should not be admitted, as Pompey himself had afterwards abrogated
that privilege by a decree of the people.  The fact was, that Pompey, in his law relating to
the choice of chief magistrates, had forgot to except Caesar, in the article in which he declared
all such as were not present incapable of being candidates for any office; but soon afterwards,
when the law was inscribed on brass, and deposited in the treasury, he corrected his mistake.
Marcellus, not content with depriving Caesar of his provinces, and the privilege intended him
by Pompey, likewise moved the senate, that the freedom of the city should be taken from those
colonists whom, by the Vatinian law, he had settled at New Como [55]; because it had been conferred
upon them with ambitious views, and by a stretch of the laws.

(20) XXIX.  Roused by these proceedings, and thinking, as he was often heard to say, that it
would be a more difficult enterprise to reduce him, now that he was the chief man in the state,
from the first rank of citizens to the second, than from the second to the lowest of all, Caesar
made a vigorous opposition to the measure, partly by means of the tribunes, who interposed
in his behalf, and partly through Servius Sulpicius, the other consul.  The following year
likewise, when Caius Marcellus, who succeeded his cousin Marcus in the consulship, pursued
the same course, Caesar, by means of an immense bribe, engaged in his defence Aemilius Paulus,
the other consul, and Caius Curio, the most violent of the tribunes.  But finding the opposition
obstinately bent against him, and that the consuls-elect were also of that party, he wrote
a letter to the senate, requesting that they would not deprive him of the privilege kindly
granted him by the people; or else that the other generals should resign the command of their
armies as well as himself; fully persuaded, as it is thought, that he could more easily collect
his veteran soldiers, whenever he pleased, than Pompey could his new-raised troops.  At the
same time, he made his adversaries an offer to disband eight of his legions and give up Transalpine-Gaul,
upon condition that he might retain two legions, with the Cisalpine province, or but one legion
with Illyricum, until he should be elected consul.

XXX.  This was indeed his pretext for the civil war; but it is supposed that there were other
motives for his conduct.  Cneius Pompey used frequently to say, that he sought to throw every
thing into confusion, because he was unable, with all his private wealth, to complete the works
he had begun, and answer, at his return, the vast expectations which he had excited in the
people.  Others pretend that he was apprehensive of being (21) called to account for what he
had done in his first consulship, contrary to the auspices, laws, and the protests of the tribunes;
Marcus Cato having sometimes declared, and that, too, with an oath, that he would prefer an
impeachment against him, as soon as he disbanded his army.  A report likewise prevailed, that
if he returned as a private person, he would, like Milo, have to plead his cause before the
judges, surrounded by armed men.  This conjecture is rendered highly probable by Asinius Pollio,
who informs us that Caesar, upon viewing the vanquished and slaughtered enemy in the field
of Pharsalia, expressed himself in these very words: "This was their intention: I, Caius Caesar,
after all the great achievements I had performed, must have been condemned, had I not summoned
the army to my aid!"  Some think, that having contracted from long habit an extraordinary love
of power, and having weighed his own and his enemies' strength, he embraced that occasion of
usurping the supreme power; which indeed he had coveted from the time of his youth.  This seems
to have been the opinion entertained by Cicero, who tells us, in the third book of his Offices,
that Caesar used to have frequently in his mouth two verses of Euripides, which he thus translates:

    Nam si violandum est jus, regnandi gratia
    Violandum est: aliis rebus pietatem colas.

    Be just, unless a kingdom tempts to break the laws,
    For sovereign power alone can justify the cause. [57]

XXXI.  But after sun-set, mules being put to his carriage from a neighbouring mill, he set
forward on his journey with all possible privacy, and a small retinue.  The lights going out,
he lost his way, and (22) wandered about a long time, until at length, by the help of a guide,
whom he found towards day-break, he proceeded on foot through some narrow paths, and again
reached the road.

XXXII.  While he was thus hesitating, the following incident occurred.

XXXIII.  Accordingly, having marched his army over the river, he shewed them the tribunes of
the people, who, upon their being driven from the city, had come to meet him; and, in the presence
of that assembly, called upon the troops to pledge him their fidelity, with tears in his eyes,
and his garment rent from his bosom.  It has been supposed, that upon this occasion he promised
to every soldier a knight's estate; but that opinion is founded on a mistake.  For when, in
his harangue to them, he frequently held out a finger of his left hand, and declared, that
to recompense those who should support him in the defence of his honour, he would willingly
part even with his ring; the soldiers at a distance, who could more easily see than hear him
while he spoke, formed their conception of what he said, by the eye, not by the ear; and accordingly
gave out, that he had promised to each of them the privilege (23) of wearing the gold ring,
and an estate of four hundred thousand sesterces. [60]

XXXIV.  Of his subsequent proceedings I shall give a cursory detail, in the order in which
they occurred [61].  He took possession of Picenum, Umbria, and Etruria; and having obliged
Lucius Domitius, who had been tumultuously nominated his successor, and held Corsinium with
a garrison, to surrender, and dismissed him, he marched along the coast of the Upper Sea, to
Brundusium, to which place the consuls and Pompey were fled with the intention of crossing
the sea as soon as possible.  After vain attempts, by all the obstacles he could oppose, to
prevent their leaving the harbour, he turned his steps towards Rome, where he appealed to the
senate on the present state of public affairs; and then set out for Spain, in which province
Pompey had a numerous army, under the command of three lieutenants, Marcus Petreius, Lucius
Afranius, and Marcus Varro; declaring amongst his friends, before he set forward, "That he
was going against an army without a general, and should return thence against a general without
an army."  Though his progress was retarded both by the siege of Marseilles, which shut her
gates against him, and a very great scarcity of corn, yet in a short time he bore down all
before him.

XXXV.  Thence he returned to Rome, and crossing the sea to Macedonia, blocked up Pompey during
almost four months, within a line of ramparts of prodigious extent; and at last defeated him
in the battle of Pharsalia. Pursuing him in his flight to Alexandria, where he was informed
of his murder, he presently found himself also engaged, under all the disadvantages of time
and place, in a very dangerous war, with king Ptolemy, who, he saw, had treacherous designs
upon his life.  It was winter, and he, within the walls of a well-provided and subtle enemy,
was destitute of every thing, and wholly unprepared (24) for such a conflict. He succeeded,
however, in his enterprise, and put the kingdom of Egypt into the hands of Cleopatra and her
younger brother; being afraid to make it a province, lest, under an aspiring prefect, it might
become the centre of revolt.  From Alexandria he went into Syria, and thence to Pontus, induced
by intelligence which he had received respecting Pharnaces.  This prince, who was son of the
great Mithridates, had seized the opportunity which the distraction of the times offered for
making war upon his neighbours, and his insolence and fierceness had grown with his success.
Caesar, however, within five days after entering his country, and four hours after coming in
sight of him, overthrew him in one decisive battle.  Upon which, he frequently remarked to
those about him the good fortune of Pompey, who had obtained his military reputation, chiefly,
by victory over so feeble an enemy.  He afterwards defeated Scipio and Juba, who were rallying
the remains of the party in Africa, and Pompey's sons in Spain.

XXXVI.  During the whole course of the civil war, he never once suffered any defeat, except
in the case of his lieutenants; of whom Caius Curio fell in Africa, Caius Antonius was made
prisoner in Illyricum, Publius Dolabella lost a fleet in the same Illyricum, and Cneius Domitius
Culvinus, an army in Pontus.  In every encounter with the enemy where he himself commanded,
he came off with complete success; nor was the issue ever doubtful, except on two occasions:
once at Dyrrachium, when, being obliged to give ground, and Pompey not pursuing his advantage,
he said that "Pompey knew not how to conquer;" the other instance occurred in his last battle
in Spain, when, despairing of the event, he even had thoughts of killing himself.

XXXVII.  For the victories obtained in the several wars, he triumphed five different times;
after the defeat of Scipio: four times in one month, each triumph succeeding the former by
an interval of a few days; and once again after the conquest of Pompey's sons.  His first and
most glorious triumph was for the victories he gained in Gaul; the next for that of Alexandria,
the third for the reduction of Pontus, the fourth for his African victory, and the last for
that in Spain; and (25) they all differed from each other in their varied pomp and pageantry.
On the day of the Gallic triumph, as he was proceeding along the street called Velabrum, after
narrowly escaping a fall from his chariot by the breaking of the axle-tree, he ascended the
Capitol by torch-light, forty elephants [62] carrying torches on his right and left.  Amongst
the pageantry of the Pontic triumph, a tablet with this inscription was carried before him:
I CAME, I SAW, I CONQUERED [63]; not signifying, as other mottos on the like occasion, what
was done, so much as the dispatch with which it was done.

XXXVIII.  To every foot-soldier in his veteran legions, besides the two thousand sesterces
paid him in the beginning of the civil war, he gave twenty thousand more, in the shape of prize-money.
He likewise allotted them lands, but not in contiguity, that the former owners might not be
entirely dispossessed.  To the people of Rome, besides ten modii of corn, and as many pounds
of oil, he gave three hundred sesterces a man, which he had formerly promised them, and a hundred
more to each for the delay in fulfilling his engagement.  He likewise remitted a year's rent
due to the treasury, for such houses in Rome as did not pay above two thousand sesterces a
year; and through the rest of Italy, for all such as did not exceed in yearly rent five hundred
sesterces.  To all this he added a public entertainment, and a distribution of meat, and, after
his Spanish victory [64], two public dinners.  For, considering the first he had given as too
sparing, and unsuited to his profuse liberality, he, five days afterwards, added another, which
was most plentiful.

XXXIX.  The spectacles he exhibited to the people were of various kinds; namely, a combat of
gladiators [65], and stage-plays in the several wards of the city, and in different languages;
likewise Circensian games [66], wrestlers, and the representation of a sea-fight.  In the conflict
of gladiators presented in the Forum, Furius Leptinus, a man of praetorian family, entered
the lists as a combatant, as did also Quintus Calpenus, formerly a senator, and a pleader of
causes.  The Pyrrhic dance was performed by some youths, who were sons to persons of the first
distinction in Asia and Bithynia.  In the plays, Decimus Laberius, who had been a Roman knight,
acted in his own piece; and being presented on the spot with five hundred thousand sesterces,
and a gold ring, he went from the stage, through the orchestra, and resumed his place in the
seats (27) allotted for the equestrian order.  In the Circensisn games; the circus being enlarged
at each end, and a canal sunk round it, several of the young nobility drove chariots, drawn,
some by four, and others by two horses, and likewise rode races on single horses.  The Trojan
game was acted by two distinct companies of boys, one differing from the other in age and rank.
The hunting of wild beasts was presented for five days successively; and on the last day a
battle was fought by five hundred foot, twenty elephants, and thirty horse on each side.  To
afford room for this engagement, the goals were removed, and in their space two camps were
pitched, directly opposite to each other.  Wrestlers likewise performed for three days successively,
in a stadium provided for the purpose in the Campus Martius.  A lake having been dug in the
little Codeta [67], ships of the Tyrian and Egyptian fleets, containing two, three, and four
banks of oars, with a number of men on board, afforded an animated representation of a sea-fight.
To these various diversions there flocked such crowds of spectators from all parts, that most
of the strangers were obliged to lodge in tents erected in the streets, or along the roads
near the city.  Several in the throng were squeezed to death, amongst whom were two senators.

XL.  Turning afterwards his attention to the regulation of the commonwealth, he corrected the
calendar [68], which had for (28) some time become extremely confused, through the unwarrantable
liberty which the pontiffs had taken in the article of intercalation.  To such a height had
this abuse proceeded, that neither the festivals designed for the harvest fell in summer, nor
those for the vintage in autumn.  He accommodated the year to the course of the sun, ordaining
that in future it should consist of three hundred and sixty-five days without any intercalary
month; and that every fourth year an intercalary day should be inserted.  That the year might
thenceforth commence regularly with the calends, or first of January, he inserted two months
between November and December; so that the year in which this regulation was made consisted
of fifteen months, including the month of intercalation, which, according to the division of
time then in use, happened that year.

XLI.  He filled up the vacancies in the senate, by advancing several plebeians to the rank
of patricians, and also increased the number of praetors, aediles, quaestors, and inferior
magistrates; restoring, at the same time, such as had been degraded by the censors, or convicted
of bribery at elections.  The choice of magistrates he so divided with the people, that, excepting
only the candidates for the consulship, they nominated one half of them, and he the other.
The method which he practised in those cases was, to recommend such persons as he had pitched
upon, by bills dispersed through the several tribes to this effect: "Caesar the dictator to
such a tribe (naming it).  I recommend to you (naming likewise the persons), that by the favour
of your votes they may attain to the honours for which they sue."  He likewise admitted to
offices the sons of those who had been proscribed.  The trial of causes he restricted to two
orders of judges, the equestrian and senatorial; excluding the tribunes of the treasury who
had before made a third class. The revised census of the people he ordered to be taken neither
in the usual manner or place, but street by street, by the principal inhabitants of the several
quarters of the city; and he reduced the number of those who received corn at the public cost,
from three hundred and twenty, to a hundred and fifty, thousand.  To prevent any tumults on
account of the census, he ordered that the praetor should every year fill up by lot the vacancies
occasioned by death, from those who were not enrolled for the receipt of corn.

