He gazed earnestly into Bradly's face, as one would look on a man on whose decision hung life
or death.  But the other's reply brought relief at once to both Foster and his wife.

"Ha! ha!" he exclaimed; "is that the old enemy's device?  I'm not surprised--he's a crafty
old fox; but the Lord's wiser than him.  I see what he's been up to: he couldn't keep the sword
of the Spirit out of your hand any longer, so he's been trying to make you turn the point away
from him, and commit suicide with it.  Set your mind at rest, William, about these verses,
and about the unpardonable sin; those who are guilty of it never seek forgiveness, and so they
never get it. These words ain't meant for such a case as yours. `Whosoever' means you and me;
he said, `Whosoever,' and he'll never unsay it.  If you'd committed the unpardonable sin, you
wouldn't be caring now about the Bible and about your soul.  If you'd committed it, God would
never have given you the light he has done, for it has come from him; it can't have come from
nowhere else.  He don't open to you the door with one hand, and then shut it in your face with
the other; that ain't his way at all He has let you in at the gate, and you may be sure as
he'll never turn you off the road with his own hand, now that you're on it."

"Thank God for that!" said Foster, reverently.  "What you say, Thomas, carries conviction with
it, for I am sure that my present views, and the change that has so far been made in me, must
be the Lord's own work; and, if so, it is certainly only consistent that, as he has taken in
hand such a wretched blasphemer as I have been, he should not undo his own work by casting
me off again."

"Hold fast to that, William," said Bradly, "and you can't go wrong. Just hand me your Bible;
I'll show you where to find another text or two as'll suit you well.--Eh!  What's this?" he
cried, as having taken the little book into his hand, he noticed the red-ink lines which were
drawn under many of the verses.  Then he turned hastily to the inside of the cover, and uttered
an exclamation of astonishment, then turned very pale, and then very red, and gazed at the
book as if fascinated by it. There were the words on the cover,--

  Steal not this book for fear of shame,
  For here you see the owner's name.
  June 10, 1793.
  Mary Williams.

"Where did you get this book?" he asked at length, in a hoarse, broken voice.  "It's my mother's
Bible; it's Jane's long-lost Bible."  Then he restrained himself, and turning quietly to Foster
and his wife, who were staring at him in bewilderment and distress, said, "Dear friends, don't
you trouble yourselves about me; there's nothing really amiss; it's all right, and more than
right, only I was taken by surprise, as you'll easily understand when I explain matters to
you.  We are all friends now, so I know I may depend upon your keeping my secret when I've
told you all about it."  He then proceeded to lay the story of Jane's troubles before his deeply
interested and sympathising hearers.  When he had brought his account to an end, he said, "Now,
you can understand why I was so taken aback at seeing my mother's name in this Bible, and why
I'm so anxious to know how you came by it.  Why, this is the very Bible which was restored,
or, at any rate, meant to be restored to Jane by John Hollands three or four months ago.  But,
then, how did it get here? And what's become of the bag and the bracelet?"

"I'm sure you will believe me when I tell you," said Foster, "that I am as much surprised about
the Bible as you are; and as for the bag and the bracelet, I have neither seen nor heard anything
of either.  Kate, however, can tell you best how we came by the Bible."

Mrs Foster then related how the volume, now so precious to herself and her husband as having
been the means of bringing light and peace into their hearts and home, had been dropped in
at her window by a female hand.  Of the bag and bracelet she of course knew nothing.

"There's something very strange and mysterious about it all," said Thomas thoughtfully; "the
bag and the bracelet are somewhere about, but who can tell where?  If we could only find them,
all could be set straight, and poor Jane's character completely cleared; but then it ain't
the Lord's will, so far, that it should be so.  One thing's clear, however; the tangle's being
undone for us bit by bit, and what we've to do is just to be patient and to keep our eyes and
ears open; but, please, not a word to anybody.  And now, William, I must ask you to let me
have this Bible to take to poor Jane; it was her mother's, and is full of her own marks under
her favourite verses.  You shall have another instead of it, with a better print."

"Of course," replied Foster; "this book is your sister's and not ours, and I would not keep
it back from her for a moment.  Still, I shall part with it with great regret, as if I were
parting with an old friend. Little did I think a few weeks ago that I should ever care so much
about a Bible; but I thank God that this little book has done Kate and myself so much good
already, and I shall be much pleased to have another copy as a gift from yourself."

Thomas Bradly rose to go; but Mrs Foster said, "I ought to have told you that there was something
else dropped into the room at the same time with the Bible, but it wasn't the bracelet, I'm
sorry to say."

"Stay, dear friend," cried Bradly; "let me run home to my dear sister with her Bible; I'll
be back again in half an hour."

So saying he hurried home, and seating himself by Jane, who was knitting as usual in her snug
retreat by the fireside, said, "Jane dear, the Lord's been bringing us just one little step
nearer to the light--only one step, mind, only one little step, but it's a step in the right
direction."

"Thomas, what is it?" she exclaimed anxiously.

"Your Bible's turned up."

"My Bible, Thomas!"

"Yes, Jane."  He then placed it in her hand.  Yes, she could see that it was indeed her own
dearly-prized Bible.

"And the bracelet, Thomas?" she asked eagerly.--He shook his head sadly. A shadow came over
the face and tears into the eyes of his poor sister.

"The Lord's will be done," she said patiently; "but tell me, dear Thomas, all about it."--He
then related what he had heard from Kate Foster.

"And you feel sure, Thomas, that the Fosters know nothing about the bag or bracelet?"

"Quite sure, Jane.  I'm certain that neither Foster nor his wife would or could deceive me
about this matter.  But take heart, my poor sister. See, the Lord's opening the way for you
`one step at a time.'  We should like it to be a little faster, but he says No.  And see, too,
how this blessed book of yours has been made of use to Foster and his wife.  Oh, there's been
a mighty work done there!  But mark, Jane, 'twouldn't have been so if this Bible had come straight
to you.  There's wonderful good, you see, coming out of this trial already.  So wait patiently
on the Lord, the bag and the bracelet will turn up too afore so long; they are on the road,
only we don't see them yet; you may be sure of that."

Jane smiled at him through her tears, and pressed her recovered Bible to her lips.  Then she
opened it, and, as she turned over leaf after leaf, her eye fell on many a well-known underlined
text, and the cloud had given place to sunshine on her gentle features as her brother left
the house and returned to William Foster's.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

WHO OWNS THE RING?

"You are satisfied that we know nothing about the bag or the bracelet, I hope?" asked Foster
anxiously on Bradly's return.

"Perfectly," was the reply; "I haven't a doubt about it; but there's something behind as none
of us has got at yet, but it'll come in the Lord's own time.  Wherever the bag and bracelet
are, they'll turn up some day, I'm certain of that; and it'll be just at the right moment.
And so we must be patient and look about us.--But what was it, Kate, you said was dropped along
with the Bible?"

"It was this ring," replied Mrs Foster, at the same time placing a small gold ring with a ruby
in the centre on the table.  The three examined it by turns.  There were no letters or marks
engraved anywhere on it.

"And this was dropped by the same hand which dropped the Bible?" asked Bradly.

"Yes; it rolled along the floor, and may have fallen either off the finger of the person who
put her hand in at the window, or from between the leaves of the Bible."

"And have you mentioned about this ring to any one?"

"No, not even to my husband.  I'm sure William will forgive me.  It was just this way: I put
it into my pocket at the time, and afterwards into a secret drawer in my desk, fearing it might
bring one or both of us into trouble.  When this happy change came, and both William and I
began to care about the Bible, I told him how I came by the book, but thought I would wait
before I said anything about the ring; perhaps something would come to clear up the mystery,
and it would be time enough to produce the ring when some one came forward to claim it; but
no one has done so yet."

"And you have no suspicion at all who it belongs to, or who dropped it?"

"No, none whatever."

"Well," continued Bradly, "I don't think it fell out of the leaves of the Bible, as not a word
is said about it in John Hollands' letter.  I'm of opinion as it slipped off accidentally from
the hand of the woman as she was dropping the Bible; and since it's clear she didn't want it
to be known who she was, if she knows where she lost her ring she won't want to come and claim it."

"And do you think," asked Foster, "that she is some one living in Crossbourne or the neighbourhood?"

"Pretty certain," replied Thomas.  "There's been some roguery or trickery about it altogether.
The bag was in Crossbourne on the 23rd of last December, and your wife got the Bible that same
evening.  I'm firmly persuaded there's been some hoax about it all, and I believe bag and bracelet
and all's in the town, if we only knew how to find 'em without making the matter public.  If
we could only get at the owner of the ring without making a noise, we might find a clue as
would lead us to where the bag is."

"I'm much of your mind," said Foster.  "I fancy that some one of poor Jim Barnes's drunken
mates has been playing a trick off on him by watching him into the Railway Inn, and running
off with the bag just to vex him; and then, when he found what was in the bag, he would hide
all away except the Bible, for fear of getting into a scrape.  But can anything be done about
the ring?"

"I'll tell you what we'll do if you'll let me have it for a while," said Bradly, with a twinkle
in his eye.  "I'll get our Betsy to wear it in the mill to-morrow.  You'll see there'll something
come out of it, as sure as my name's Thomas Bradly."

Accordingly, next morning Betsy Bradly appeared at the mill with the ring on her little finger--a
circumstance which soon drew attention, which was expressed first in looks and then in whispers,
much to the quiet amusement and satisfaction of the wearer.  No questions, however, were asked
till the dinner hour, and then a small knot of the hands, principally of the females, gathered
round her.  These were some of her personal friends and acquaintances; for her character stood
too high in the place for any of the less respectable sort to venture to intrude themselves
upon her.

"Well, Betsy," cried one, "you've got a pretty keepsake there; let's have a look at it."

