An interval of T.W. RUSSELL, with one of his adroitly-argued, lucidly-arranged speeches. Then
Mr. G. and transformation scene. House filled up as if by magic. In ten minutes not a seat
vacant on floor; Members running into Side Gallery, nimbly hopping over Benches, to get on
front line so as to watch as well as hear the last and the greatest of the old Parliamentarians.
As suddenly and swiftly as the House had filled, the limp lay figure of the Debate throbbed
with life. Scene of the kind witnessed only once or twice in Session. Six hundred pair of eyes
all turned eagerly upon figure standing at Table, denouncing with uplifted arm, and voice ringing
with indignation, the iniquities of the MARKISS, safely absent, and of his nephew, Prince ARTHUR,
serenely present.

A great speech; an achievement which, if it stood alone, sufficient to make a reputation. And
yet, when result of Division announced, it was found that majority of an iniquitous Government
had run up to 92!

Everyone delighted to hear the interesting news from 27, St. James's Place, which gives an
heir to the Spencer Earldom, and has spread a feeling of joy and contentment throughout Althorpe
and Mid-Northamptonshire. The latest news, brought down just now by MARJORIBANKS, is "BOBBY
is doing as well as can be expected." Business done.--Irish Local Government Bill read Second
Time, by 339 votes against 247.

Wednesday.--Hail! Sir HENRY WIGGIN, Bart, M.P.; B.B.K., as ARTHUR ORTON called himself when
resident in the wilds of Australia, and explained that the style imported Baronet of the British
Kingdom. Now we know what was the meaning of that foray upon the House the other day, when,
with the Chairman in the Chair, and Committee fully constituted, the waggish WIGGIN walked
adown the House, with his hat cocked on one side of his head, in defiance of Parliamentary
etiquette. The Birthday Gazette was even then being drafted, and to-day the wanton WIGGIN is
Sir HENRY, Baronet of the United Kingdom. Not a more popular announcement in the list. An honest,
kindly, shrewd WIGGIN it is, with a face whose genial smile all people, warming under it, instinctively
return.

Business done.--WIGGIN made B.B.K.

Thursday.--Quite a long time reaching Vote on Account; two hours taken for discussion of Birmingham
Water Bill; Gentlemen in Radical camp much exercised about size of fish in streams annexed
for purposes of Birmingham water supply. CHAMBERLAIN, who has charge of Bill, says he never
caught one longer than two inches. DILLWYN protests that fishing in same waters he rarely caught
one less than a pound weight. Evidently a mistake somewhere. House perplexed, finally passed
Bill through Committee.

Then Rev. SAM SMITH wants to know more about Polynesian Labour Traffic. The NOBLE BARON who
has charge of Colonial affairs in Commons, whilst controverting all his statements, says "everyone
must admit that the Hon. Member has spoken from his heart." "Which," NOVAR says, "it reminds
me of the couplet Joe Gargery meant to put on the tombstone of his lamented father, 'What-sume'er
the failings on his part, Remember, reader, he were that good in his hart.'"

