To-day most of these men are really respectable citizens. Of course some of them are a bad
lot, but they are known and avoided. Yet the fact that even the better class of Italians in
New York are thoroughly familiar with the phenomena surrounding the Mala Vita is favorable
to the spread of a certain amount of Camorrist activity. There are a number of influential
bosses, or capi maestra, who are ready to undertake almost any kind of a job for from twenty
dollars up, or on a percentage. Here is an illustration.

A well-known Italian importer in New York City was owed the sum of three thousand dollars by
an other Italian, to whom he had loaned the money without security and who had abused his confidence.
Finding that the debtor intended to cheat him out of the money, although he could easily have
raised the amount of the debt had he so wished, the importer sent for a Camorrist and told
him the story.

"You shall be paid," said the Camorrist.

Two weeks later the importer was summoned to a cellar on Mott Street. The Camorrist conducted
him down the stairs and opened the door. A candle-end flaring on a barrel showed the room crowded
with rough-looking Italians and the debtor crouching in a corner. The Camorrist motioned to
the terrified victim to seat himself by the barrel. No word was spoken and amid deathly silence
the man obeyed. At last the Camorrist turned to the importer and said:

"This man owes you three thousand dollars, I believe."

The importer nodded.

"Pay what you justly owe," ordered the Camorrist.

Slowly the reluctant debtor produced a roll of bills and counted them out upon the barrel-head.
At five hundred he stopped and looked at the Camorrist.

"Go on!" directed the latter.

So the other, with beads of sweat on his brow, continued until he reached the two thousand-dollar
mark. Here the bills seemed exhausted. The importer by this time began to feel a certain reticence
about his part in the matter--there might be some widows and orphans somewhere. The bad man
looked inquiringly at him, and the importer mumbled something to the effect that he "would
let it go at that." But the bad man misunderstood what his client had said and ordered the
bankrupt to proceed. So he did proceed to pull out another thousand dollars from an inside
pocket and add it to the pile on the barrel-head.

The Camorrist nodded, picked up the money, recounted it, and removed three hundred dollars,
handing the rest to the importer.

"I have deducted the camorra," said he.

The bravos formed a line along the cellar to the door, and, as the importer passed on his way
out, each removed his hat and wished him a buona sera. That importer certainly will never contribute
toward a society for the purpose of eradicating the "Black Hand" from the city of New York.
He says it is the greatest thing he knows.

But the genuine Camorrist or Mafius' would be highly indignant at being called a "Black Hander."
His is an ancient and honorable profession; he is no common criminal, but a "man peculiarly
sensitive in matters of honor," who for a consideration will see that others keep their honorable
agreements.

The writer has received authoritative reports of three instances of extortion which are probably
prototypes of many other varieties. The first is interesting because it shows a Mafius' plying
his regular business and coming here for that precise purpose. There is a large wholesale lemon
trade in New York City, and various growers in Italy compete for it. Not long past, a well-dressed
Italian of good appearance and address rented an office in the World Building.

His name on the door bore the suffix "Agent." He was, indeed, a most effective one, and he
secured practically all the lemon business among the Italians for his principals, for he was
a famous capo ma mafia, and his customers knew that if they did not buy from the growers under
his "protection" that something might, and very probably would, happen to their families in
or near Palermo. At any rate, few of them took any chances in the matter, and his trip to America
was a financial success.

In much the same way a notorious crook named Lupo forced all the retail Italian grocers to
buy from him, although his prices were considerably higher than those of his competitors.

Even Americans have not been slow to avail themselves of Camorrist methods. There is a sewing
machine company which sells its machines to Italian families on the instalment plan. A regular
agent solicits the orders, places the machines, and collects the initial dollar; but the moment
a subscriber in Mulberry Street falls in arrears his or her name is placed on a black list,
which is turned over by this enterprising business house to a "collector," who is none other
than the leading Camorrist, "bad man," or Black Hander of the neighborhood. A knock on the
door from his fist, followed by the connotative expression on his face, results almost uniformly
in immediate payment of all that is due. Needless to say, he gets his camorra--a good one--on
the money that otherwise might never be obtained.

It is probable that we should have this kind of thing among the Italians in America even if
the Neapolitan Camorra and the Sicilian Mafia had never existed, for it is the precise kind
of crime that seems to be spontaneously generated among a suspicious, ignorant, and superstitious
people. The Italian is keenly alive to the dramatic, sensational, and picturesque; he loves
to intrigue, and will imagine plots against him when none exists. If an Italian is late for
a business engagement the man with whom he has his appointment will be convinced that there
is some conspiracy afoot, even if his friend has merely been delayed by a block on the subway.
Thus, he is a good subject for any wily lago that happens along. The Italians in America are
the most thrifty of all our immigrant citizens. In five years their deposits in the banks of
New York State amounted to over one hundred million dollars. The local Italian crooks avail
themselves of the universal fear of the vendetta, and let it be generally known that trouble
will visit the banker or importer who does not "come across" handsomely. In most cases these
Black Handers are ex-convicts with a pretty general reputation as "bad men." It is not necessary
for them to phrase their demands. The tradesman who is honored with a morning call from one
of this gentry does not need to be told the object of the visit. The mere presence of the fellow
is a threat; and if it is not acceded to, the front of the building will probably be blown
out by a dynamite bomb in the course of the next six weeks--whenever the gang of which the
bad man is the leader can get around to it. And the bad man may perhaps have a still badder
man who is preying upon HIM. Very often one of these leaders or bosses will run two or three
groups, all operating at the same time. They meet in the back rooms of saloons behind locked
doors, under pretence of wishing to play a game of zecchinetta unmolested, or in the gloaming
in the middle of a city park or undeveloped property on the outskirts. There the different
members of the gang get their orders and stations, and perhaps a few dollars advance wages.
It is naturally quite impossible to guess the number of successful and unsuccessful attempts
at blackmail among Italians, as the amount of undiscovered crime throughout the country at
large is incomputable. No word of it comes from the lips of the victims, who are in mortal
terror of the vendetta--of meeting some casual stranger on the street who will significantly
draw the forefinger of his right hand across his throat.

There is rather more chance to find and convict a kidnapper than a bomb-thrower, so that, as
a means of extortion, child-snatching is less popular than the mere demand for the victim's
money or his life. On the other hand it is probably much more effective in accomplishing its
result. But America will not stand for kidnapping, and, although the latter occurs occasionally,
the number of cases is insignificant compared with those in which dynamite is the chief factor.
In 1908, there were forty-four bomb outrages reported in New York City. There were seventy
arrests and nine convictions. During the present year (1911) there have been about sixty bomb
cases, but there have been none since September 8, since Detective Carrao captured Rizzi, a
picciott', in the act of lighting a bomb in the hallway of a tenement house.

This case of Rizzi is an enlightening one for the student of social conditions in New York,
for Rizzi was no Orsini, not even a Guy Fawks, nor yet was he an outlaw in his own name. He
was simply a picciott' (pronounced "pish-ot") who did what he was told in order that some other
man who did know why might carry out a threat to blow up somebody who had refused to be blackmailed.
It is practically impossible to get inside the complicated emotions and motives that lead a
man to become an understudy in dynamiting. Rizzi probably got well paid; at any rate, he was
constantly demonstrating his fitness "to do big things in a big way," and be received into
the small company of the elect--to go forth and blackmail on his own hook and hire some other
picciott' to set off the bombs.

Whoever the capo maestra that Rizzi worked for, he was not only a deep-dyed villain, but a
brainy one. The gang hired a store and pretended to be engaged in the milk business. They carried
the bombs in the steel trays holding the milk bottles and cans, and, in the costume of peaceful
vendors of the lacteal fluid, they entered the tenements and did their damage to such as failed
to pay them tribute. The manner of his capture was dramatic. A real milkman for whom Rizzi
had worked in the past was marked out for slaughter. He had been blown up twice already. While
he slept his wife heard some one moving in the hall. Looking out through a small window, she
saw the ex-employee fumble with something and then turn out the gas on the landing. Her husband,
awakened by her exit and return, asked sleepily what the matter was.

"I saw Rizzi out in the hall," she answered. "It was funny-he put out the light!"

In a moment the milkman was out of bed and gazing, with his wife, into the street. They saw
Rizzi come down with his tray and pass out of sight. So did a couple of Italian detectives
from Headquarters who had been following him and now, at his very heels, watched him enter
another tenement, take a bomb from his tray, and ignite a time fuse. They caught him with the
thing alight in his hand. Meanwhile the other bomb had gone off and blown up the milkman's
tenement.

