"Ah," he answered, smiling, "I can tell, by the way you say that, that you don't really know
it at all. To us Glebeshire people it's impossible to speak of it so easily. There are Trenchards
all over Glebeshire, you know, lots of them. In Polchester, our cathedral town, where I was
born, there are at least four Trenchard families. Then in Truxe, at Garth, at Rasselas, at
Clinton--but why should I bother you with all this? It's only to tell you that the Trenchards
are simply Glebeshire for ever and ever. To a Trenchard, anywhere in the world, Glebeshire
is hearth and home."

"I believe I've met," I said, "your Trenchards of Garth. George Trenchard.... She was a Faunder.
They have a house in Westminster. There's a charming Miss Trenchard with whom I danced."

"Yes, those are the George Trenchards," he answered with eagerness and delight, as though I
had formed a new link with him. "Fancy your knowing them! How small the world is! My father
was a cousin, a first cousin, of George Trenchard's. The girl--you must mean Millie--is delightful.
Katherine, the elder sister, is married now. She too is charming, but in a different, graver way."

He spoke of them all with a serious lingering pleasure, as though he were summoning them all
into the dusty, stuffy corridor, carrying them with him into these strange countries and perilous
adventures.

"They always laughed at me--Millie especially; I've stayed sometimes with them at Garth. But
I didn't mean really to talk about them--I only wanted to show you how deeply Glebeshire matters
to the Trenchards, and whatever happens, wherever a Trenchard goes, he always really takes
Glebeshire with him. I was born in Polchester, as I said. My father had a little property there,
but we always lived in a little round bow-windowed house in the Cathedral Close. I was simply
brought up on the Cathedral. From my bedroom windows I looked on the whole of it. In our drawing-room
you could hear the booming of the organ. I was always watching the canons crossing the cathedral
green, counting the strokes of the cathedral bell, listening to the cawing of the cathedral
rooks, smelling the cathedral smell of cold stone, wet umbrellas and dusty hassocks, looking
up at the high tower and wondering whether anywhere in the world there was anything so grand
and fine. My moral world, too, was built on the cathedral--on the cathedral 'don'ts' and 'musts,'
on the cathedral hours and the cathedral prayers, and the cathedral ambitions and disappointments.
My father's great passion was golf. He was not a religious man. But my mother believed in the
cathedral with a passion that was almost a disease. She died looking at it. Her spirit is somewhere
round it now, I do believe."

He paused, then went on:

"It was the cathedral that made me so unpractical, I suppose. I who am an only child--I believed
implicitly in what I was told and it always was my mother who told me everything."

He was, I thought, the very simplest person to whom I had ever listened. The irritation that
I had already felt on several occasions in his company again returned. "My father's great passion
was golf" would surely in the mouth of another have had some tinge of irony.

In Trenchard's mild blue eyes irony was an incredible element. I could fancy what he would
have to say to the very gentlest of cynics; some of the sympathy I had felt for him during
the afternoon had left me.

"He's very little short of an idiot," I thought. "He's going to be dreadfully in the way."

