Well, now for the plot: thus much is true.  A laundry-maid of the Duchess of Marlborough, passing
by the Cocoa-tree, saw two gentlemen go in there, one of whom dropped a letter; it was directed
to you.  She opened it.  It was very obscure, talked of designs at Kew miscarried, of new methods
to be taken; and as this way of correspondence had been repeated too often, another must be
followed: and it told you that the next letter to him should be in a band-box at such a house
in the Haymarket.  The Duchess concluded it related to a gang of street-robbers, and sent it
to Fielding.  He sent to the house named, and did find a box and a letter, which, though obscure
had treason enough in it.  It talked of a design at Kew miscarried; that the Opera was now
the only place, and consequently the scheme must be deferred till next season, especially as
a Certain person is abroad.  For the other great person (the Duke), they are sure of him at
any time.  There was some indirect mention, too, of gunpowder.  Vanneschi and others have been
apprehended; but a conclusion was made, that it was a malicious design against the lord high
treasurer of the Opera and his administration, and so they have been dismissed.  Macnamara,(575)
I suppose you Jerseyans know, is returned with his fleet to Brest, leaving the transports sailing
to America.  Lord Thanet and Mr. Stanley are just gone to Paris, I believe to inquire after
the war.

The weather has been very bad for showing Strawberry to the Kildares; we have not been able
to stir out of doors; but, to make me amends, I have discovered that Lady Kildare is a true
S`evignist.  You know what pleasure I have in any increase of our sect; I thought she grew
handsomer than ever as she talked with devotion of Notre Dame des Rochers.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

P. S. Tell me if you receive this; for in these gunpowder times, to be sure, the clerks of
the post-office are peculiarly alert.

(571) Mr. Walpole had invited Mr. muntz from Jersey, and he lived for some time at Strawberry Hill.

(572) Youngest son of Thomas, elder brother of the Earl of St. Albans.  He was created Baron
Dover in 1685, and died without issue in 1708.-E.

(573) One of Charles the Second's confidential pages.-E.

(574) The Pretender's birthday.

(576) The French admiral.

256 Letter 136 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, June 15, 1755.

My dear sir, I have received your two letters relating to the Countess,(577) and wish you joy,
since she will establish herself at Florence, that you are so well with her; but I could not
help smiling at the goodness of your heart and your zeal for us: the moment she spared us,
you gave t`ete baiss`ee into all her histories against Mr. Shirley: his friends say, that there
was a little slight-of-hand in her securing the absolute possession of her own fortune; it
was very prudent, at least, if not quite sentimental.  You should be at least as little the
dupe of her affection for her son; the only proof of fondness she has ever given for him, has
been expressing great concern at his wanting taste for Greek and Latin. Indeed, he has not
much encouraged maternal yearnings in her: I should have thought him shocked at the chronicle
of her life if he ever felt any impressions.  But to speak freely to you, my dear Sir, he is
the most particular young man I ever saw. No man ever felt such a disposition to love another
as I did to love him: I flattered myself that he would restore some lustre to our house; at
least, not let it totally sink; but I am forced to give him up, and all my Walpole-views. 
I will describe him to you, if I can, but don't let it pass your lips.  His figure is charming;
he has more of the easy, genuine air of a man of quality than ever you saw: though he has a
little hesitation in his speech, his address and manner are the most engaging imaginable: he
has a good-breeding and attention when he is with you that is even flattering; you think he
not only means to please, but designs to do every thing that shall please you; he promises,
offers every thing one can wish--but this is all; the instant he leaves you, you, all the world,
are nothing to him--he would not give himself the least trouble in the world to give any body
the greatest satisfaction; yet this is mere indolence of mind, not of body-his whole pleasure
is outrageous exercise.  Every thing he promises to please you, is to cheat the present moment
and hush any complaint-I mean of words; letters he never answers, not of business, not of his
own business: engagements Of no sort he ever keeps.  He is the most selfish man in the world,
without being the least interested: he loves nobody but himself, yet neglects every view of
fortune and ambition.  He has not Only always slighted his mother, but was scarce decent to
his rich old grandmother, when she had not a year to live, and courted him to receive her favours.
You will ask me what passions he has--none but of parade; he drinks without inclination-makes
love without inclination--games without attention; is immeasurably obstinate, yet, like obstinate
people, governed as a child.  In short, it is impossible not to love him when one sees him;
impossible to esteem him when one thinks on him!

Mr. Chute has found you a very pretty motto: it alludes to the goats in your arms, and not
a little to you; per ardua stabiles.  All your friends approve it, and it is actually engraving.
You are not all more in the dark about the war than we are even here: Macnamara has been returned
some time to Brest with his fleet, having left the transports to be swallowed up by Boscawen,
as we do not doubt but they will be. Great armaments continue to be making in all the ports
of England and France, and, as we expect next month accounts of great attempts made by our
colonies, we think war unavoidable, notwithstanding both nations are averse to it.  The French
have certainly overshot themselves; we took it upon a higher style than they expected, or than
has been our custom.  The spirit and expedition with which we have equipped so magnificent
a navy has surprised them, and does exceeding honour to my Lord Anson, who has breathed new
life into our affairs.  The minister himself has retained little or none of his brother's and
of his own pusillanimity; and as the Duke(578) is got into the Regency, you may imagine our
land-spirit will not be unquickened neither.  This is our situation; actual news there is none.
All we hear from France is, that a new-madness reigns there, as strong as that of Pantins was.
This is la fureur des cabriolets; singlic`e, one-horse chairs, a mode introduced by Mr. Child:(579)
they not only universally go in them, but wear them; that is, every thing is to be en cabriolet;
the men paint them on their waistcoats, and have them embroidered for clocks to their stockings;
and the women, who have gone all the winter without any thing on their heads, are now muffled
up in great caps with round sides, in the form of, and scarce less than the wheels of chaises!
Adieu! my dear Sir.

(577) The Countess of Orford.

(578) The Duke of Cumberland.

(579) Josiah Child, brother of the Earl of Tilney.

257 Letter 137 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 5, 1755.

You vex me exceedingly.  I beg, if it is not too late, that you would not send me these two
new quarries of granite; I had rather pay the original price and leave them where they are,
than be encumbered with them.  My house is already a stone-cutter's shop, nor do I know what
to do with what I have got.  But this is not what vexes me, but your desiring me to traffic
with Carter, and showing me that you are still open to any visionary project! Do you think
I can turn broker and factor, and- I don't know what?  And at your time of life, do you expect
to make a fortune by becoming a granite-merchant? There must be great demand for a commodity
that costs a guinea a foot, and a month an inch to polish! You send me no drawings, for which
you know I should thank you infinitely, and are hunting for every thing that I would thank
you for letting alone.  In short, my dear Sir, I am determined never to be a projector, nor
to deal with projects.  If you still pursue them, I must beg you will not only not employ me
in them, but not even let me know that you employ any body else. If you will not be content
with my plain, rational way of serving you, I can do no better, nor can I joke upon it.  I
can combat any difficulties for your service but those of your own raising.  Not to talk any
more crossly, and to prevent, if I can, for the future, any more of these expostulations, I
must tell you plainly, that with regard to my own circumstances.  I generally drive to a penny,
and have no money to spare for visions.  I do and am doing all I can for you; and let me desire
you once for all, not to send me any more persons or things without asking my consent, and
stay till you receive it.  I cannot help adding to the chapter of complaint* * * *

These, my dear Sir, are the imprudent difficulties you draw me into, and which almost discourage
me from proceeding in your business.  If you anticipate your revenue, even while in Jersey,
and build castles in the air before you have repassed the sea, can I expect that you will be
a better economist either of your fortune or your prudence here? I beg you will preserve this
letter, ungracious as it is, because I hope it will serve to prevent my writing any more such.

Now to Mr. Muntz;-Hitherto he answers all you promised and vowed for him: he is very modest,
humble, and reasonable; and has seen so much and knows so much, of countries and languages
that I am not likely to be soon tired of him.  His drawings are very pretty: he has done two
views of Strawberry that please me extremely; his landscape and trees are much better than
I expected.  His next work is to be a large picture from your Mr. bland for Mr. Chute, who
is much content with him: he goes to the Vine in a fortnight or three weeks.  We came from
thence the day before yesterday.  I have drawn up an inventionary of all I propose he should
do there; the computation goes a little beyond five thousand pounds; but he does not go half
so fast as my impatience demands: he is so reasonable, and will think of dying, and of the
gout, and of twenty disagreeable things that one must do and have, that he takes no joy in
planting and future views, but distresses all my rapidity of schemes.  last week we were at
my sister's at Chaffont in Buckinghamshire, to see what we could make of it; but it wants so
much of every thing, and would require so much more than an inventionary of five thousand pounds,
that we decided nothing, except that Mr. Chute has designed the prettiest house in the world
for them.  We Went to See the objects of the neighbourhood, Bolstrode and Latimers.  The former
is a melancholy monument of Dutch magnificence: however there is a brave gallery of old pictures,
and a chapel with two fine windows in modern painted glass.  The ceiling was formerly decorated
with the assumption, or rather presumption, of Chancellor Jeffries, to whom it belonged; but
a very judicious fire hurried him somewhere else; Latimers belongs to Mrs. Cavendish.  I have
lived there formerly with Mr. Conway, but it is much improved since; yet the river stops short
at an hundred yards just under your eye, and the house has undergone Batty Langley discipline:
half the ornaments are of his bastard Gothic, and half of Hallet's mongrel Chinese.  I want
to write over the doors of most modern edifices, "Repaired and beautified; Langley and Hallet
churchwardens." The great dining-room is hung with the paper of my staircase, but not shaded
properly like mine.  I was much more charmed lately at a visit I made to the Cardigans at Blackheath.
Would you believe that I had never been in Greenwich Park? I never had, and am transported!
Even the glories of Richmond and Twickenham hide their diminished rays.  Yet nothing is equal
to the fashion of this village: Mr. Muntz says we have more coaches than there are in half
France.  Mrs. Pritchard has bought Ragman's Castle, for which my Lord Litchfield could not
agree.  We shall be as celebrated as Baiae or Tivoli; and, if we have not such sonorous names
as they boast, we have very famous people: Clive and Pritchard, actresses; Scott and Hudson,
painters; my Lady Suffolk, famous in her time; Mr. H * * *, the impudent lawyer, that Tom Hervey
wrote against; Whitehead, the poet--and Cambridge, the every thing.  Adieu! my dear Sir--I
know not one syllable of news.

259 Letter 138 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, July 16, 1755.

Our correspondence will revive: the war is begun.  I cannot refer you to the Gazette, for it
is so prudent and so afraid that Europe should say we began first, (and unless the Gazette
tell, how should Europe know?) that it tells nothing at all. The case was; Captain Howe and
Captain Andrews lay in a great fog that lasted near fifty hours within speech of three French
ships and within sight of nine more.  The commandant asked if it was war or peace? Howe replied
he must wait for his admiral's signal, but advised the Frenchman to prepare for war.  Immediately
Boscawen gave the signal, and Howe attacked. The French, who lost one hundred and thirty men
to our thirteen, soon struck; we took one large ship, one inconsiderable, and seven thousand
pounds: the third ship escaped in the fog.  Boscawen detained the express ten days in hopes
of more success; but the rest of our new enemies are all got safe into the river of Louisbourg.
This is a great disappointment! We expect a declaration of war with the first fair wind.  Make
the most of your friendship with Count lorenzi,(580) while you may.

I have received the cargo of letters and give you many thanks; but have not seen Mr. Brand;
having been in the country while he was in town.

Your brother has received and sent you a dozen double prints of my eagle, which I have had
engraved.  I could not expect that any drawing could give you a full idea of the noble spirit
of the head, or of the masterly tumble of the feathers: but I think Upon the whole the plates
are not ill done.  Let me beg Dr. Cocchi to accept one of each plate; the rest, my dear Sir,
you will give away as you please.

Mr. Chute is such an idle wretch, that you will not wonder I am his secretary for a commission.
At the Vine is the most heavenly chapel(581) in the world; it only wants a few pictures to
give it a true Catholic air-we are so conscious of the goodness of our Protestantism, that
we do not care how things look.  If you can pick us up a tolerable Last Supper, or can have
one copied tolerably and very cheap, we will say many a mass for the repose of your headaches.
The dimensions are, three feet eleven inches and three quarters by two feet eight inches and
a half high.  Take notice of two essential ingredients; it must be cheap, and the colouring
must b very light, for it will hang directly under the window.

I beg YOU Will nurse yourself up to great strength; consider w what German generals and English
commodores you are again going to have to govern! On my side, not a Pretender

shall land, nor rebellion be committed, but you shall have timely notice.  Adieu!

(580) A Florentine, but minister of France to the Great Duke.

(581) At Mr. Chute's seat of the Vine, in Hampshire, is a chapel built by Lord Sandys of the
Vine, lord chamberlain to Henry VIII.  In the painted glass windows, which were taken at Boulogne
in that reign, are portraits of Francis 1. his Queen, and sister.

260 Letter 139 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 17, 1755.

To be sure, war is a dreadful calamity, etc.! But then it is a very comfortable commodity for
writing letters and writing history; and as one did not contribute to make it, why there is
no harm in being a little amused with looking on; and if one can but keep the Pretender on
t'other side Derby, and keep Arlington Street and Strawberry Hill from being carried to Paris,
I know nobody that would do more to promote peace, or that will bear the want of it, with a
better grace than myself. If I don't send you an actual declaration of war in this letter,
at least you perceive I am the harbinger of it. An account arrived yesterday morning that Boscawen
had missed the French fleet, who are got into Cape Breton; but two of his captains(582) attacked
three of their squadron and have taken two, with scarce any loss.  This is the third time one
of the French captains has been taken by Boscawen.

Mr. Conway is arrived from Ireland, where the triumphant party are what parties in that situation
generally are, unreasonable and presumptuous.  They will come into no terms without a stipulation
that the Primate(583) shall not be in the Regency. This is a bitter pill to digest, but must
not it be swallowed? Have we heads to manage a French war and an Irish civil war too?

There are little domestic news.  If you insist upon some, why, I believe I could persuade somebody
or other to hang themselves; but that is scarce an article uncommon enough to send cross the
sea.  For example, the rich * * * * whose brother died of the smallpox a year ago, and left
him four hundred thousand Pounds, had a fit of the gout last week, and shot himself.  I only
begin to be afraid that it should grow as necessary to shoot one's self here, as it is to go
into the army in France.  Sir Robert Browne has lost his last daughter, to whom he could have
given eight thousand pounds a-year. When I tell these riches and n)adnesses to Mr. Muntz, he
stares so, that I sometimes fear he thinks I mean to impose on him.  It is cruel to a person
who collects the follies of the age for the information of posterity to have one's veracity
doubted; it is the truth of them that makes them worth notice. Charles Townshend marries the
great dowager Dalkeith;(583 his parts and presumption are prodigious.  He wanted nothing but
independence to let him loose: I propose great entertainment from him; and now, perhaps, the
times will admit it.  There may be such things again as parties--odd evolutions happen. The
ballad I am going to transcribe for you is a very good comment on so commonplace a text.  My
Lord Bath, who was brought hither by my Lady Hervey's and Billy Bristow's reports of the charms
of the place, has made the following stanzas, to the old tune which you remember of Rowe's
ballad on Doddington's Mrs. Strawbridge:--

"Some talk of Gunnersbury, For Sion some declare; And some say that with Chiswick-house No
villa can compare; But all the beaux of Middlesex, Who know the country well, Say, that Strawberry
Hill, that Strawberry Doth bear away the bell.

Though Surry boasts its Oatlands, And Claremont kept so jim; And though they talk of Southcote's,
'Tis but a dainty whim; For ask the gallant Bristow, Who does in taste excel, If Strawberry
Hill, if Strawberry Don't bear away the bell."

Can there be an odder revolution of things, than that the printer of the Craftsman(585) should
live in a house of mine, and that the author of the Craftsman should write a panegyric on a
house of mine?

I dined yesterday at Wanstead many years have passed since I saw it.  The disposition of the
house and the prospect are better than I expected, and very fine: the garden, which they tell
you cost as much as the house, that is, 100,000 pounds (don't tell Mr. Muntz) is wretched;
the furniture fine, but totally without taste: such continences and incontinences of Scipio
and Alexander by I don't know whom! such flame-coloured gods and goddesses, by Kent! such family-pieces,
by--I believe the late Earl himself, for they are as ugly as the children he really begot!
The whole great apartment is of oak, finally carved, unpainted and has a charming effect(586)
The present Earl is the most generous creature in the world: in the first chamber I entered
he offered me four marble tables that lay in cases about the room: I compounded, after forty
refusals of every thing I commended, to bring away only a haunch of venison: I believe he has
not had so cheap a visit a good while.  I commend myself, as I ought: for, to be sure, there
were twenty ebony chairs, and a couch, and a table, and a glass, that would have tried the
virtue of a philosopher of double my size! After dinner we dragged a gold-fish pond(587) for
my lady Fitzroy and Lord S@ I could not help telling my Lord Tilney, that they would certainly
burn the poor fish for the gold, like the old lace.  There arrived a Marquis St. Simon, from
Paris, who understands English, and who has seen your book of designs for Gray's Odes: he was
much pleased at meeting me, to whom the individual cat(588) belonged, and you may judge whether
I was pleased with him.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(582) The two captains were the Honourable Captain Richard Howe of the Dunkirk, and Captain
Andrews of the Defiance, who, on the 10th of June, off Cape Race, the southernmost part of
Newfoundland, fell in with three men-of war, part of the French fleet, Commanded by M. Bois
de la Motte; and, after a very severe engagement of five Hours, succeeded in capturing the
Alcide of sixty-four guns, and the Lys of sixty-four.- E.

(583) Dr. Stone.

(584) Eldest daughter and coheiress of the great Duke of Argyle, and widow of the Earl of Dalkeith.-E.

(585) Franklin, who occupied the cottage in the enclosure which Mr. Walpole afterwards called
the Flower-garden at Strawberry Hill.  When he bought the ground on which this tenement stood,
he allowed Franklin to continue to occupy it during his life.

(586) Arthur Young, in his "Six Weeks' Tour," gives the following description of Wanstead:
"It is one of the noblest houses in England.  The magnificence of having four state bed- chambers,
with complete apartments to them, and the ball-room, are superior to any thing of the kind
in Houghton, Holkham, Blenheim and Wilton: but each of these houses is superior to this in
other particulars; and, to form a complete, palace, something must be taken from all."-E.

(587) Evelyn, who visited Wanstead, March 16, 1682-3, says, "I went to see Sir Josiah Child's
prodigious cost in planting walnut-trees about his seat, and making fish-ponds many miles in
circuit, in Epping Forest, in a barren spot, as oftentimes these suddenly moneyed men for the
most part. seat themselves. He, from a merchant's apprentice, and management of the East India
Company's stock, being arrived to an estate ('tis said) 200,000 pounds, and lately married
his daughter to the eldest son of the Duke of Beaufort, late Marquis of Worcester, with 50,000
pounds portional present, and various expectations."

(588) Walpole's favourite cat Selima, on the death of which, by falling into a china tub, with
gold fishes in it, Gray wrote an Ode.  After the death of the poet, Walpole placed the china
vase on a pedestal at Strawberry Hill, with a few lines of' the Ode written for its inscription.-E.

263 Letter 140 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 17, 1755.

Having done with building and planting, I have taken to farming; the first fruits of my proficience
in that science I offer to you, and have taken the liberty to send you a couple of cheeses.
If you will give yourself the trouble to inquire at Brackley for the coach, which set out this
morning you will receive a box and a roll of paper.  The latter does not contain a cheese,
only a receipt for making them.  We have taken so little of the French fleet, that I fear none
of it will come to my share, or I would have sent you part of the spoils.  I have nothing more
to send you, but a new ballad, which my Lord Bath has made on this place; you remember the
old burden of it, and the last lines allude to Billy Bristow's having fallen in love with it.

I am a little pleased to send you this, to show you, that in summer we are a little pretty,
though you will never look at us but in our ugliness.  My best compliments to Miss Montagu,
and my service to whatever baronet breakfasts with you, on negus.  Have you heard that poor
Lady Browne is so unfortunate as to have lost her last daughter; and that Mrs. Barnett is so
lucky as to have lost her mother-in-law, and is Baroness Dacre of the South? I met the great
C`u t'other day, and he asked me if I ever heard from you; that he never did: I told him that
I did not neither; did not I say true?

263 Letter 141 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 26, 1755.

who would not turn farmer, when their very first essay turns to so good account? Seriously,
I am quite pleased with the success of mystery, and infinitely obliged to you for the kind
things you say about my picture.  You must thank Mrs. Whetenhall, too, for her prepossession
about my cheeses: I fear a real manufacturer of milk at Strawberry Hill would not have answered
quite so well as our old commodities of paint and copper-plates.

I am happy for the recovery of Miss Montagu, and the tranquillity you must feel after so terrible
a season of apprehension.  Make my compliments to her, and if you can be honest on so tender
a topic, tell her, that she will always be in danger, while you shut her up in Northamptonshire,
and that with her delicate constitution she ought to live nearer friends and help; and I know
of no spot so healthy or convenient for both, as the county of Twicks.

Charles Townshend is to be married next month: as the lady had a very bad husband before, she
has chosen prudently, and has settled herself in a family of the best sort of people in the
world, who will think of nothing but making her happy.  I don't know whether the bridegroom
won't be afraid of getting her any more children, lest it should prejudice those she has already!
they are a wonderful set of people for good-natured considerations!

You know, to be sure, that Mr. Humberston(589) is dead, and your neighbouring Brackley likely
to return under the dominion of its old masters.  Lady Dysart(590) is dead too.

Mr. Chute is at the Vine.  Your poor Cliquetis is still a banished man.  I have a scheme for
bringing him back, but can get Mrs. Tisiphone into no kind of terms, and without tying her
up from running him into new debts, it is in vain to recover him.

I believe the declaration of war has been stopped at the Custom-house, for one hears nothing
of it.  You see I am very paragraphical, and in reality have nothing to say; so good night!
Yours ever.

(589)Member for Brackley.-E.

(590) Daughter of the Earl of Granville.

264 Letter 142 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, August 4, 1755, between 11 and 12
at night.

I came from London to-day, and am just come from supping at Mrs. Clive's, to write to you by
the fireside.  We have been exceedingly troubled for some time with St. Swithin's diabetes,
and have not a dry thread in any walk about us.  I am not apt to complain of this malady, nor
do I: it keeps us green at present, and will make our shades very thick, against we are fourscore,
and fit to enjoy them.  I brought with me your two letters of July 30 and August 1st; a sight
I have not seen a long time! But, my dear Sir, you have been hurt at my late letters.  Do let
me say thus much in excuse for myself. You know how much I value, and what real and great satisfaction
I have in your drawings.  Instead of pleasing me with so little trouble to yourself, do you
think it was no mortification to receive every thing but your drawings? to find you full of
projects, and, I will not say, with some imprudences? But I have done on this subject--my friendship
will always be the same for you; it will only act with more or less cheerfulness, as you use
your common sense, or your disposition to chimerical schemes and carelessness.  To give you
all the present satisfaction in my power, I will tell you * * * * *

I think your good-nature means to reproach me with having dropped any hint of finding amusement
in contemplating a war. When one would not do any thing to promote it, when one would do any
thing to put a period to it, when one is too insignificant to contribute to either, I must
own I see no blame in thinking an active age more agreeable to live in, than a soporific one.
But, O my dear Sir, I must adopt your patriotism-Is not it laudable to be revived with the
revival of British glory? Can I be an indifferent spectator of the triumphs of my country'?
Can I help feeling a tattoo at my heart, when the Duke of Newcastle makes as great a figure
in history as Burleigh or Godolphin-nay, as Queen Bess herself! She gained no battles in person;
she was only the actuating genius.  You seem to have heard of a proclamation of war, of which
we have not heard; and not to have come to the knowledge of taking of Beau S`ejour(591) by
Colonel Monckton.  In short, the French and we seem to have crossed over and figured in, in
politics.(592)  Mirepoix complained grievously that the Duke of Newcastle had overreached him-but
he is to be forgiven in so good a cause!  It is the first person he ever deceived!  I am preparing
a new folio for heads of the heroes that are to bloom in mezzo-tinto from this war.  At present
my chief study is West Indian history.  You would not think me very ill-natured if you knew
all I feel at the cruelty and villany of European settlers: but this very morning I found that
part of the purchase of Maryland from the savage proprietors (for we do not massacre, we are
such good Christians as only to cheat) was a quantity of vermilion and a parcel of Jews-harps!
Indeed, if I pleased, I might have another study; it is my fault if I am not a commentator
and a corrector of the press. The Marquis de St. Simon, whom I mentioned to you, at a very
first visit proposed to me to look over a translation he had made of The Tale of a Tub: the
proposal was soon followed by a folio, and a letter of three sides, to press me seriously to
revise it.  You shall judge of my scholar's competence.  He translates L'Estrange, Dryden,
and others, l'`etrange Dryden, etc.(593)  Then in the description of the tailor as an idol,
and his goose as the symbol; he says in a note, that the goose means the dove, and is a concealed
satire on the Holy Ghost. It put me in mind of the Dane, who, talking of orders to a Frenchman,
said, "Notre St.  Esprit, est un `el`ephant."

Don't think, because I prefer your drawings to every thing in the world, that I am such a churl
as to refuse Mrs. Bentley's partridges: I shall thank her very much for them.  You must excuse
me If I am vain enough to be so convinced of my own taste, that all the neglect that has been
thrown upon your designs cannot make me think I have overvalued them.  I must think that the
states of Jersey who execute your town-house,- have much more judgment than all our connoisseurs.
When I every day see Greek, and Roman, and Italian, and Chinese, and Gothic architecture embroidered
and inlaid upon one another, or called by each other's names, I can't help thinking that the
grace and simplicity and truth of your taste, in whichever you undertake is real taste.  I
go farther: I wish you would know in what you excel, and not be bunting after twenty things
unworthy your genius.  If flattery is my turn, believe this to be so.

Mr. Muntz is at the Vine, and has been some time.  I want to know more of this history of the
German: I do assure you, that I like both his painting and behaviour; but if any history of
any kind is to accompany him, I shall be most willing to part with him.  However I may divert
myself as a spectator of broils, believe me I am thoroughly sick of having any thing to do
in any.  Those in a neighbouring island are likely to subside-and, contrary to custom, the
priest(594) himself is to be the sacrifice.

I have contracted a sort of intimacy with Garrick, who is my neighbour.  He affects to study
my taste: I lay it all upon you--he admires you.  He is building a grateful temple to Shakspeare:
I offered him this motto: "Quod spiro et placeo, si placeo tuum est!"  Don't be surprised if
you should hear of me as a gentleman come upon the stage next winter for my diversion.  The
truth is, I make the most of this acquaintance to protect my poor neighbour at Clivden--You
understand the conundrum, Clive's den.

Adieu, my dear Sir! Need I repeat assurances? If I need, believe that nothing that can tend
to your recovery has been or shall be neglected by me.  You may trust me to the utmost of my
power: beyond that, what can I do? Once more, adieu!

(591) In June, 1755, the French fort of Beau Sejour, in the Bay of Fundy, surrendered to Colonel
Monckton, and two small forts, Gaspereau and Venango, also capitulated.  These were the first
conquests of the British arms in America during that war.  He gave the name of Fort Cumberland
to Beau S`ejour.-E.

(592) This alludes to England and France not being at open war, though constantly committing
aggressions against each other.  The capture of these forts formed the first article Of complaint
against England, in the French declaration of war, in June, 1756.-E.

(593) The Marquis de St. Simon did publish, in 1771, a translation of Pope's Essay on Man.-E.

(594) The Primate of ireland.

266 Letter 143 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, August 15, 1755.

My dear sir, Though I wrote to you so lately, and have certainly nothing new to tell you, I
can't help scribbling a line to YOU to-night, as I am going to Mr. Rigby's for a week or ten
days, and must thank you first for the three pictures.  One of them charms me, the Mount Orgueil,
which is absolutely fine; the sea, and shadow upon it, are masterly.  The other two I don't,
at least won't, take for finished.  If you please, Elizabeth Castle shall be Mr. Muntz's performance:
indeed I see nothing of You in it.  I do reconnoitre you in the Hercules and Nessus; but in
both your colours are dirty, carelessly dirty: in your distant hills you are improved, and
not hard.  The figures are too large--I don't mean in the Elizabeth Castle, for there they
are neat; but the centaur, though he dies as well as Garrick can, is outrageous.  Hercules
and Deianira are by no means so: he is sentimental, and she most improperly sorrowful.  However,
I am pleased enough to beg you would continue.  As soon as Mr. Muntz returns from the Vine,
you shall have a supply of colours.  In the mean time why give up the good old trade of drawing?
Have you no Indian ink, no soot-water, no snuff, no Coat of onion, no juice of any thing? If
you love me, draw: you would if you knew the real pleasure you can give me. I have been studying
all your drawings; and next to architecture and trees, I determine that you succeed in nothing
better than animals.  Now (as the newspapers say) the late ingenious Mr. Seymour is dead, I
would recommend horses and greyhounds to you.  I should think you capable of a landscape or
two with delicious bits of architecture.  I have known you execute the light of a torch or
lanthorn so well, that if it was called Schalken, a housekeeper at Hampton-court or Windsor,
or a Catherine at Strawberry Hill, would show it, and say it cost ten thousand pounds.  Nay,
if I could believe that you would ever execute any more designs I proposed to you, I would
give you a hint for a picture that struck me t'other day in P`er`efixe's Life of Henry IV.(595)
He says, the king was often seen lying upon a common straw-bed among the soldiers, with a piece
of brown bread in one hand, and a bit of charcoal in t'other, to draw an encampment, or town
that he was besieging.  If this is not a character and a picture, I don't know what is.

I dined to-day at Garrick's: there were the Duke of Grafton, Lord and Lady Rochford, Lady Holderness,
the crooked Mostyn, and Dabreu the Spanish minister; two regents, of which one is lord chamberlain,
the other groom of the stole; and the wife of a secretary of state.  This is the being sur
un assez bon ton for a player!  Don't you want to ask me how I like him? Do want, and I will
tell you.  I like her exceedingly; her behaviour is all sense, and all sweetness too.  I don't
know how, he does not improve so fast upon me: there is a great deal of parts, and vivacity,
and variety, but there is a great deal too of mimicry and burlesque.  I am very ungrateful,
for he flatters me abundantly; but unluckily I know it.  I was accustomed to it enough when
my father was first minister: on his fall I lost it all at once: and since that, I have lived
with Mr. Chute, who is all vehemence; with Mr. Fox, who is all disputation; with Sir Charles
Williams, who has no time from flattering himself; with Gray, who does not hate to find fault
with me; with Mr. Conway, who is all sincerity; and with you and Mr. Rigby, who have always
laughed at me in a good-natured way.  I don't know how, but I think I like all this as well--I
beg his pardon, Mr. Raftor does flatter me; but I should be a cormorant for praise, if I could
swallow it whole as he gives it me.

Sir William Yonge, who has been extinct so long is at last dead and the war, which began with
such a flirt of vivacity, is I think gone to sleep.  General Braddock has not yet sent over
to claim the surname of Americanus.  But why should I take pains to show You in how many ways
I know nothing?--Why; I can tell it you in one word--why, Mr. Cambridge knows nothing!--I wish
you good-night!  Yours ever.

(595) Hardouin de P`er`efixe's Histoire du Roi Henri le Grand appeared in 1661.  He is stated,
by the editor Of the Biog. Univ. to be the best historian of that monarch, and the work has
been translated in many languages.  He was appointed preceptor to Louis XIV. in 1644, and Archbishop
of Paris in 1622.  He died in 1670.-E.

268 Letter 144 To Sir Horace Mann. Mistley, August 21, 1755.                              '

I shall laugh at you for taking so seriously what I said to you about my Lady Orford.  Do you
think, my dear Sir, that at this time I can want to learn your zeal for us? or can you imagine
that I did not approve for your own sake your keeping fair terms with the Countess?  If I do
not much forget, I even recommended it to you--but let us talk no more of her; she has engrossed
more paragraphs in our letters than she deserves.

I promised you a brisk war: we have done our part, but can I help it, if the French will not
declare it?-if they are backward, and cautious, and timorous; if they are afraid of provoking
too far SO great a power as England, who threatens the liberties of Europe?  I laugh, but how
not to laugh at such a world as this! Do you remember the language of the last war? What were
our apprehensions? Nay, at the conclusion of the peace, nothing was laid down for a maxim but
the impossibility of our engaging in another war; that our national debt was at its ne plus
ultra; and that on the very next discussion France must swallow us up! Now we are all insolent,
alert, and triumphant: nay the French talk of nothing but guarding against our piracies, and
travel Europe to give the alarm against such an overbearing power as we are. On their coasts
they are alarmed--I mean the common people; I scarce believe they who know any thing, are in
real dread of invasion from us! Whatever be the reason, they don't declare war: some think
they wait for the arrival of their Martinico fleet.  You will ask why we should not attack
that too?  They tell one, that if we began hostilities in Europe, Spain would join the French.
Some believe that the latter are not ready: certain it is, Mirepoix gave them no notice nor
suspicion of our flippancy; and he is rather under a cloud--indeed this has much undeceived
me in one point: I took him for the ostensible mister; but little thought that they had not
some secret agent of better head, some priest, some Scotch or Irish Papist-or perhaps some
English Protestant, to give them better intelligence.  But don't you begin to be impatient
for the events of all our West Indian expeditions?  The Duke,(596) who is now the soul of the
Regency, and who on all hands is allowed to make a great figure there, is much dissatisfied
at the slowness of General Braddock, who does not march as if he was at all impatient to be
scalped.  It is said for him, that he has had bad guides, that the roads are exceedingly difficult,
and that it was necessary to drag as much artillery as he does.  This is not the first time,
as witness in Hawley,(597) that the Duke has found that brutality did not necessarily consummate
a general.  I love to give you an idea of our characters as they rise upon the stage of history.
Braddock is a very Iroquois in disposition.  He had a sister, who having gamed away all her
little fortune at Bath, hanged herself(598) with a truly English deliberation, leaving only
a note upon the table with those lines "To die is landing on some silent shore," etc.  When
Braddock was told of it, he only said, "Poor Fanny! I always thought she would play till she
would be forced to tuck herself up!"' But a more ridiculous story of him, and which is recorded
in heroics by Fielding in his Covent-Garden tragedy, was an amorous discussion he had formerly
with a Mrs. Upton, who had kept him.  He had gone the greatest lengths with her pin-money,
and was still craving.  One day that he was very pressing, she pulled out her purse and showed
him that she had but twelve or fourteen shillings left; he twitched it from her, "Let me see
that."  Tied up at the other end he found five guineas; he took them, tossed the empty purse
in her face, saying, "Did you mean to cheat me?" and never went near her more:--now you are
acquainted with General Braddock.

We have some royal negotiations proceeding in Germany, which are not likely to give quite so
much satisfaction to the Parliament of next winter, as our French triumphs give to the City,
where nothing is so popular as the Duke of Newcastle. There is a certain Hessian treaty, said
to be eighteen years long, which is arrived at the Treasury, Legge refused peremptorily to
sign it--you did not expect patriotism from thence? It will not make him popular: there is
not a mob in England now capable of being the dupe of patriotism; the late body of that denomination
have really so discredited it, that a minister must go great lengths indeed before the people
would dread him half so much as a patriot! On the contrary, I believe nothing would make any
man so popular, or conciliate so much affection to his ministry, as to assure the people that
he never had nor ever would pretend to love his country. Legge has been frowned upon by the
Duke of Newcastle ever since he was made chancellor of the exchequer by him, and would have
been turned out long ago if Sir George Lee would have accepted the post.  I am sorry that just
when Tuscany is at war with Algiers, your countrymen should lie under the odour of piracy too;
it will give Richcourt opportunities of saying very severe things to you!--Barbarossa our Dey
is not returned yet-we fear he is going to set his grandson(599) up in a seraglio; and as we
have not, among other Mahometan customs, copied the use of the bowstring for repressing the
luxuriancy of the royal branches, we shall be quite overrun with young Sultans!  Adieu!

(596) The Duke of Cumberland.

(597) General Hawley, who behaved with great cruelty and brutality in the Scotch rebellion,
which did not however Prevent his being beaten by the rebels,-D.

(598) The story of this unfortunate young lady is told by Goldsmith, in his amusing Life of
Beau Nash, introduced into the new and @greatly enlarged edition of his "Miscellaneous Works,"
published by Mr. Murray, in 1837, in four volumes octavo. See vol. iii.  p. 294.  According
to the poet, the lines which were written on one of the panes of the window, were these:-

"O Death! thou pleasing end of human wo! Thou cure for life! thou greatest good below! Still
may'st thou fly the coward and the slave, And thy soft slumbers only bless the brave."-E.

(599) The King had a mind to marry the Prince of Wales to a Princess of Brunswick.

270 Letter 145 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, August 28, 1755.

My last letter to you could not be got out of England, before I might have added a melancholy
supplement.  Accounts of a total defeat of Braddock, and his forces are arrived from America;
the purport is, that the General having arrived within a few miles of Fort du Quesne, (I hope
you are perfect in your American geography?) sent an advanced party, under Lord Gage's brother:
they were fired upon, invisibly, as they entered a wood; Braddock heard guns, and sent another
party to support the former; but the first fell back in confusion on the second, and the second
on the main body.  The whole was in disorder, and it is said, the General himself', though
exceedingly brave, did not retain all the sang froid that was necessary.  The common soldiers
in general, fled; the officers stood heroically and were massacred: our Indians were not surprised,
and behaved gallantly.  The General had five horses shot under him, no bad symptoms of his
spirit, and at last was brought off by two Americans, no English daring, though Captain Orme,(600)
his aid-de-camp, who is wounded too, and has made some noise here by an affair of gallantry,
offered Sixty guineas to have him conveyed away.  We have lost twenty-six officers, besides
many wounded, and ten pieces of artillery.  Braddock lived four days, in great torment.(601)
What makes the rout more shameful is, that instead of a great pursuit, and a barbarous massacre
by the Indians, which is always to be feared in these rencontres, not a black or white soul
followed our troops, but we had leisure two days afterwards to fetch off our dead.  In short,
our American laurels are strangely blighted! We intended to be in great alarms for Carolina
and Virginia, but the small number of our enemies had reduced this affair to a panic.  We pretend
to be comforted on the French deserting Fort St. John, and on the hopes we have from two other
expeditions which are on foot in that part of the world-but it is a great drawback on English
heroism I pity you who represent the very flower of British courage ingrafted on a Brunswick stock!

I have already given you some account of Braddock; I may complete the poor man's history in
a few more words: he once had a duel with Colonel Gumley, Lady Bath's(602) brother, who had
been his great friend: as they were going to engage, Gumley, who had good humour and wit, (Braddock
had the latter,) said "Braddock, you are a poor dog! here take my purse; if you kill me you
will be forced to run away, and then you will not have a shilling to support you." Braddock
refused the purse, insisted on' the duel, was disarmed, and would not even ask his life. However,
with all his brutality, he has lately been Governor of Gibraltar, where he made himself adored,
and where scarce any Governor was endured before. Adieu! Pray don't let any detachment from
Pannoni's(603) be sent against us--we should run away!

(600) He married the sister of George Lord Townshend, without the consent of her family.

(601) Walpole, in his Memoires, says, that "he dictated an encomium on his officers, and expired."-D.

(602) Elizabeth Gumley, wife of William Pulteny, Earl of Bath.

(603) Pannoni's coffeehouse of the Florentine nobility, not famous for their courage of late.

271 Letter 146 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, August 28, 1755.

Our piratic laurels, with which the French have so much reproached us, have been exceedingly
pruned! Braddock is defeated and killed, by a handful of Indians and by the baseness of his
own troops, who sacrificed him and his gallant officers.  Indeed, there is some suspicion that
cowardice was not the motive, but resentment at having been draughted from Irish regiments.
Were such a desertion universal, could one but commend@it'@ Could one blame men who should
refuse to be knocked on the head for sixpence a day, and for the advantage and dignity of a
few ambitious? But in this case one pities the brave young @officers, who cannot so easily
disfranchise themselves from the prejudices of glory!  Our disappointment is greater than our
loss; six-and-twenty officers are killed, who, I suppose, have not left a vast many fatherless
and widowless, as an old woman told me to-day with great tribulation.  The ministry have a
much more serious affair on their hands-Lord Lincoln and Lord Anson have had a dreadful quarrel!
Coquus teterrima belli causa!  When Lord Mountford shot himself, Lord Lincoln said, "Well,
I am very sorry for poor Mountford! but it is the part of a wise man to make the best of every
misfortune-I shall now have the best cook in England."  This was uttered before Lord Anson.
Joras,(604)-- who is a man of extreme punctilio, as cooks and officers ought to be, would not
be hired till he knew whether this Lord Mountford would retain him.  When it was decided that
he would not, Lord Lincoln proposed to hire Joras.  Anson had already engaged him.  Such a
breach of friendship was soon followed by an expostulation (there was jealousy of the Duke
of Newcastle's favour already under the coals): in short the nephew earl called the favourite
earl such gross names, that it was well they were ministers!  otherwise, as Mincing says, "I
vow, I believe they must have fit."  The public, that is half-a-dozen toad-eaters, have great
hopes that the present unfavourable posture of affairs in America will tend to cement this
breach, and that we shall all unite hand and heart against the common enemy.

I returned the night before last from my peregrination.  It is very unlucky for me that no
crown of martyrdom is entailed on zeal for antiquities; I should be a rubric martyr of the
first class.  After visiting the new salt-water baths at Harwich, (which, next to horse-racing,
grows the most fashionable resource for people who want to get out of town, and who love the
country and retirement!) I went to see Orford castle, and Lord Hertford's at Sudborn.  The
one is a ruin, and the other ought to be so.  Returning in a one-horse chair over a wild vast
heath, I went out of the road to see the remains of Buttley Abbey; which however I could not
see; for, as the keys of Orford castle were at Sudborn, so the keys of Buttley were at Orford!
By this time it was night; we lost our way, were in excessive rain for above two hours, and
only found our way to be overturned into the mire the next morning going into Ipswich.  Since
that I went to see an old house built by Secretary Naunton.(605)  His descendant, who is a
strange retired creature, was unwilling to let us see it; but we did, and little in it worth
seeing.  The house never was fine, and is now out of repair; has a bed with ivory pillars and
loose rings, presented to the secretary by some German prince or German artist; and a small
gallery of indifferent portraits, among which there are scarce any worth notice but of the
Earl of Northumberland, Anna Bullen's lover, and of Sir Antony Wingfield, who having his hand
tucked into his girdle, the housekeeper told us, had had his fingers cut off by Harry VIII.
But Harry VIII. was not a man pour s'arr`eter `a ces minuties la!

While we waited for leave to see the house, I strolled into the churchyard, and was struck
with a little door open into the chancel, through the arch of which I discovered cross-legged
knights and painted tombs!  In short, there are no less than eight considerable monuments,
very perfect, of Wingfields, Nauntons, and a Sir John Boynet and his wife, as old as Richard
the Second's time.  But what charmed me still more, were two figures of Secretary Naunton's
father and mother in the window in painted glass, near two feet high, and by far the finest
painting on glass I ever saw.  His figure, in a puffed doublet, breeches and bonnet, and cloak
of scarlet and yellow, is absolutely perfect: her shoulder is damaged. This church, which is
scarce bigger than a large chapel, is very ruinous, though containing such treasures!  Besides
these, there are brasses on the pavement, with a succession of all the wonderful head-dresses
which our plain virtuous grandmothers invented to tempt our rude and simple ancestors.- -I
don't know what our nobles might be, but I am sure that Milliners three or four hundred years
ago must have been more accomplished in the arts, as Prynne calls them, of crisping, curling,
frizzling, and frouncing, than all the tirewomen of Babylon, modern Paris, or modern Pall-Mall.
Dame Winifred Boynet, whom I mentioned above, is accoutered with the coiffure called piked
horns, which, if there were any signs in Lothbury and Eastcheap, must have brushed them about
strangely, as their ladyships rode behind their gentlemen ushers! Adieu!

(604) The name of the cook in question.

(605) Sir Robert Naunton, master of the court of wards.  He wrote Anecdotes of Queen Elizabeth
and her favourites.

273 Letter 147 To The Rev. Henry Etough.(606) Woolterton, Sept. 10, 1755.

Dear Etough, I cannot forbear any longer to acknowledge the many favours from you lately; your
last was the 8th of this month. His Majesty's speedy arrival among his British subjects is
very desirable and necessary, whatever may be the chief motive for his making haste.  As to
Spain, I have from the beginning told my friends, when they asked, both in town and country,
that I was at all apprehensive that Spain would join with France against us; for this plain
reason, because it could not possibly be the interest of the Spaniards to do it for should
the views of the French take place in making a line of forts from the Mississippi to Canada,
and of being masters of the whole of that extent of country, Peru and Mexico, and Florida,
would be in more danger from them than the British settlements in America.

Mr. Fowle has made me a visit for a few days, and communicated to me your two pieces relating
to my brother and Lord Bolingbroke, and I think you do great justice to them both in their
very different and opposite characters; but you will give me leave to add with respect to Lord
Orford, there are several mistakes and misinformations, of which I am persuaded I could convince
you by conversation, but my observations are not proper for a letter.  Of this more fully when
I see you, but when that will be I can't yet tell.  I am ever most affectionately yours, etc.

(606) The Rev.  Henry Etough, of Pembroke-hall, Cambridge.  He received his education among
the Dissenters, and Archbishop Secker and Dr. 'Birch were among his schoolfellows.  Through
the interest of Sir Robert Walpole, he was presented to the rectory of Therfield, in Hertfordshire;
where he died, in his seventieth year, in August 1757.-E.

273 Letter 148 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, September 18, 1755.

My dear sir, After an expectation of six weeks, I have received a letter from you, dated August
23d.  Indeed I did not impute any neglect to you; I knew it arose from the war; but Mr. S.
* * * * tells me the packets will now be more regular.--Mr. S * * * tells me!--What, has he
been in town, or at Strawberry?--No; but I have been at Southampton: I was at the Vine; and
on the arrival of a few fine days, the first we have had this summer, after a deluge, Mr. Chute
persuaded me to take a jaunt to Winchester and Netley Abbey, with the latter of which he is
very justly enchanted.  I was disappointed in Winchester: it is a paltry town, and small: King
Charles the Second's house is the worst thing I ever saw of Sir Christopher Wren, a mixture
of a town-hall and an hospital; not to mention the bad choice of the situation in such a country;
it is all ups that should be downs.  I talk to you as supposing that you never have been at
Winchester, though I suspect you have, for the entrance of the cathedral is the very idea of
that of Mabland. I like the smugness of the cathedral, and the profusion of the most beautiful
Gothic tombs.  That of Cardinal Beaufort is in a style more free and of more taste than any
thing I have seen of the kind.  His figure confirms me in my opinion that I have struck out
the true history of the picture that I bought of Robinson; and which I take for the marriage
of Henry VI. Besides the monuments of the Saxon Kings, of Lucius, William Rufus, his brother,
etc. there are those of six such great or considerable men as Beaufort, William of Wickham,
him of Wainfleet, the Bishops Fox and Gardiner, and my Lord Treasurer Portland.--How much power
and ambition under half-a-dozen stones! I own, I grow to look on tombs as lasting mansions,
instead of observing them for curious pieces of architecture!- -Going into Southampton, I passed
Bevismount, where my Lord Peterborough

"Hung his trophies o'er his garden gate;"(607)

but General Mordaunt was there, and we could not see it.  We walked long by moonlight on the
terrace along the beach- -Guess, if we talked of and wished for you! The town is crowded; sea-baths
are established there too.  But how shall I describe Netley to you?  I can only by telling
YOU, that it is the spot in the world for which Mr. Chute and I wish.  The ruins are vast,
and retain fragments of beautiful fretted roofs pendent in the air, With all variety of Gothic
patterns of windows wrapped round and round with ivy-many trees are sprouted up amongst the
walls, and Only want to be increased with cypresses! A hill rises above the abbey encircled
with wood: the fort, in which we would build a tower for habitation, remains with two small
platforms.  This little castle is buried from the abbey in a wood, in the very centre, on the
edge of the hill: on each side breaks in the view of the Southampton sea, deep blue, glistering
with silver and vessels; on one side terminated by Southampton, on the other by Calshot castle;
and the Isle of Wight rising above the opposite hills.  In short, they are not the ruins of
Netley, but of Paradise.--OH! the purple abbots, what a spot had they chosen to slumber in!
The scene is so beautifully tranquil, that they seem only to have retired into the world.(608)

I know nothing of the war, but that we catch little French ships like crawfish.  They have
taken one of ours with Governor Lyttelton(609) going to South Carolina.  He is a very worthy
young man, but so stiffened with Sir George's old fustian, that I am persuaded he is at this
minute in the citadel of Nantes comparing himself to Regulus.

Gray has lately been here.  He has begun an Ode,(610) which if he finishes equally, will, I
think, inspirit all your drawing again.  It is founded on an old tradition of Edward 1. putting
to death the Welsh bards.  Nothing but you, or Salvator Rosa, and Nicolo Poussin, can paint
up to the expressive horror and dignity of it.  Don't think I mean to flatter you; all I would
say is, that now the two latter are dead, you must of necessity be Gray's painter.  In order
to keep your talent alive, I shall next week send you flake white, brushes, oil, and the enclosed
directions from Mr. Muntz, who is still at the Vine, and whom, for want of you, we labour hard
to form. I shall put up in the parcel two or three prints of my eagle, which, as you never
would draw it, is very moderately performed; and yet the drawing was much better than the engraving.
I shall send you too a trifling snuff-box, only as a sample of the new manufacture at Battersea,
which is done with copper-plates.  Mr. Chute is at the Vine, where I cannot say any works go
on in proportion to my impatience.  I have left him an inventionary of all I want to have done
there; but I believe it may be bound up with the century of projects of that foolish Marquis
of Worcester, who printed a catalogue of titles of things which he gave no directions to execute,
nor I believe could.(611)  Adieu!

(607) "Our Gen'rals now, retired to their estate, Hang their old trophies o'er the garden gate."
Pope, in this couplet, is said to have alluded to the entrance of Lord Peterborough's lawn
at Bevismount.-E.

(608) Gray, who visited Netley Abbey in the preceding month, calls it "a most beautiful ruin
in as beautiful a situation."-E.

(609) william Henry, brother of Sir George, afterwards Lord Lyttelton.  The man-of-war in which
he was proceeding to South Carolina was captured by the French squadron under Count Guay, and
sent into Nantes, but was shortly afterwards restored.-E.

(610) "The Bard" was commenced this year, but was for some time left unfinished; but the accident
of seeing a blind Harper (Mr. Parry) perform on a Welsh harp, again put his Ode in motion,
and brought it at last to a conclusion, See Works, vol. i. p. xxxiii.-E.

(611) Vol. i. letter 259 to H. S. Conway, Aug. 29, 1748.

275 Letter 149 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 23, 1755.

Dear harry, Never make me excuses for a letter that tells me so many agreeable things -as your
last; that you are got well to Dublin;(612) that you are all well, and that you have accommodated
all your politics to your satisfaction--and I may be allowed to say, greatly to your credit
'What could you tell me that would please me so much When I have indulged a little my joy for
your success and honour, it is natural to consider the circumstances you have told me; and
you will easily excuse me if I am not quite as much satisfied with the conduct of your late
antagonists, as I with yours.  You have tranquillized a nation, have repaired your master's
honour, and secured the peace of your administration;-but what shall one say to the Speaker,
Mr. Malone and the others? Don't they confess that they have gone the greatest lengths, and
risked the safety of their country on a mere personal pique? If they did not contend for profit,
like our patriots (and you don't tell me that they have made any lucrative stipulations), yet
it is plain that their ambition had been wounded, and that they resented their power being
crossed.  But I, Who am Whig to the backbone, indeed in the strictest sense of the word, feel
hurt in a tenderer point, and which you,. who are a minister, must not allow me: I am offended
at their agreeing to an address that avows such deference for prerogative, and that is to protest
so deeply against having to attack it. However rebel this may sound at your court, my Gothic
spirit is hurt; I do not love such loyal expressions from a Parliament.  I do not so much consider
myself writing to Dublin castle, as from Strawberry castle, where you know how I love to enjoy
my liberty.  I give myself the airs, in my nutshell, of an old baron, and am tempted almost
to say with an old Earl of Norfolk, who was a very free speaker at least, if he was not an
excellent poet,

"When I am in my castle of Bungey, Situate upon the river Waveney, I ne care for the King of
cockney."

I have been roving about Hampshire, have been at Winchester and Southampton and twenty places,
and have been but one day in London --consequently know as little news as if I had been shut
up in Bungey castle.  Rumours there are of great bickerings and uneasiness; but I don't believe
there will be any bloodshed of places, except Legge's, which nobody seems willing to take-I
mean as a sinecure.  His Majesty of Cockney is returned exceedingly well, but grown a little
out of humour at finding that we are not so much pleased with all the Russians and Hessians
that he has hired to recover the Ohio. We are an ungrateful people!  Make a great many compliments
for me to my Lady Ailesbury; I own I am in pain about Missy. As my lady is a little coquette
herself, and loves crowds and admiration, and a court life, it will be very difficult for her
to keep a strict eye upon Missy.  The Irish are very forward and bold:--I say no more but it
would hurt you both extremely to have her marry herself idly and I think my Lord Chancellor
has not extended his matrimonial foresight to Ireland.  However, I have much confidence in
Mrs. Elizabeth Jones:(613) I am sure, when they were here, she would never let Missy whisper
with a boy that was old enough to speak. Adieu! As the winter advances, and plots thicken,
I will write you letters that shall have a little more in them than this. In the mean time
I am going to Bath, not for my health, you know I never am ill, but for my amusement.  I never
was there, and at present there are several of my acquaintance.  The French academy have chosen
my Lord Chesterfield, and he has written them a letter of thanks. that is the finest composition
in the world - indeed, I was told so by those who have not seen it; but they would have told
me so if they had seen it, whether it was the finest or the worst; suffices it to be his! 
Yours ever.

(612) mr. Conway was now secretary of state to the Marquis of Hartington, lord lieutenant of
Ireland.

(613) Miss Conway's nurse.

277 Letter 150 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Sept. 29, 1755.

It is not that I am perjured for not writing to you oftener, as I promised; the war is forsworn.
We do all we can; we take, from men-of-war and Domingo-men, down to colliers and cock-boats,
and from California into the very Bay of Calais. The French have taken but one ship from us,
the Blandford, and that they have restored--but I don't like this drowsy civil lion; it will
put out a talon and give us a cursed scratch before we are aware.  Monsieur de seychelles,
who grows into power, is labouring at their finances and marine: they have struck off their
sous-fermiers, and by a reform in what they call the King's pleasures, have already saved 1,200,000
pounds sterling a year.  Don't go and imagine that 1,200,000 pounds was all stink in the gulf
of Madame Pompadour, or even in suppers and hunting; under the word the King's pleasures, they
really comprehended his civil list; and in that light I don't know why our civil list might
not be called another King's pleasures(614) too, though it is not all entirely squandered.
In short, the single article of coffee for the Mesdames(615) amounted to 3000 pounds sterling
a year--to what must their rouge have amounted?--but it is high time to tell you of other wars,
than the old story of France and England.  You must know, not in your ministerial capacity,
for I suppose that is directed by such old geographers as Sanson and De Lisle, who imagined
that Herenhausen was a town in Germany, but according to the latest discoveries, there is such
a county in England as Hanover, which lying very much exposed to the incursions of the French
and Prussians (the latter are certain hussars in the French army), it has been thought necessary
to hire Russians, and Hessians, and all the troops that lie nearest to the aforesaid weak part
of Great Britain called Hanover, in order to cover this frontier from any invasion.  The expedience
of this measure was obvious; yet many People who could not get over the prejudice of education,
or who having got over these prejudices have for certain reasons returned to them, these Ptolemaic
geographers Will not be persuaded that there is any such county in England as Hanover, and
not finding it in their old maps, or having burnt their new ones in a passion--(Mr.  Legge,
indeed, tore his at the treasury board the day that the warrant for the Hessian subsidy came
thither)--they determined that England had no occasion for these mercenaries.  Besides Legge,
the Duke of Devonshire, the Speaker, Sir George Lee, and one MR. William Pitt, a man formerly
remarkable for disputing the new geography, declared strongly against the system of treaties.(616)
Copernicus no sooner returned from Germany, than the Duke of Newcastle, who had taken the alarm,
frightened him out of his wits.  In short, they found that they should have no Professor to
defend the new system in Parliament.  Every body was tried--when every body had refused, and
the Duke of Newcastle was ready to throw up the cards, he determined to try Fox,(617) who,
by the mediation of Lord Granville, has accepted the seals, is to be secretary of state, is
to have the conduct of the House of Commons, and is, I think-very soon to be first minister-or
what one has known to happen to some who of very late years have joined to support a tottering
administration, is to be ruined.  Indeed, he seems sensible of the alternative, professes no
cordiality to Duke Trinculo, who is viceroy over him, but is listing Bedford's, and whoever
will list with him, as fast as he can.  One who has been his predecessor in suffering by such
an alliance, my Lord Chesterfield, told him, "Well, the Duke of Newcastle has turned out every
body else, and now he has turned out himself."  Sir Thomas Robinson is to return to the great
wardrobe, with an additional pension on Ireland of 2000 pounds a year.  This is turning a cipher
into figures indeed!  Lord Barrington is to be secretary at war. This change, however, is not
to take place till after the Parliament is met, which is not till the 13th of' next month,
because Mr. Fox is to preside at the Cockpit the night before the House opens.  How Mr. Legge
will take his deposition is not known.  He has determined not to resign, but to be turned out;
I should think this would satisfy his scruples, even if he had made a vow against resigning.

As England grows turbulent again, Ireland grows calm again. Mr. Conway, who has gone thither
secretary to Lord Hartington, has with great prudence and skill pacified that kingdom: you
may imagine that I am not a little happy at his acquiring renown.  The Primate is to be the
peace-offering.

If there were any private news, as there are none, I could not possibly to-day step out of
my high historical pantoufles to tell it you.  Adieu! You know I don't dislike to see the Kings
and queens and Knaves of this world shuffled backwards and forwards; consequently I look on,
very well amused, and very indifferent whatever is trumps!

(614) Alluding to the King's love of money.

(615 The daughters of Louis the Fifteenth.-D.

(616) The following is from Dodington's Diary:-"Sept. 3. Mr. Pitt told me, that he had painted
to the Duke of Newcastle all the ill Consequences of this system of subsidies in the strongest
light that his imagination could furnish him with: he had deprecated his Grace not to complete
the ruin which the King had nearly brought upon himself by his journey to Hanover, which all
people should have prevented, even with their bodies.  A King abroad, at this time, without
one man about him that has one English sentiment, and to bring home a whole set of subsidies!
That he was willing to promote the King's service; but if this was what he was sent for to
promote, few words were best--nothing in the world should induce him to consent to these subsidies."-E.

(617) " Fox must again be treated with; for the session of Parliament approached, and it was
become a general maxim, that the House of Commons had been so much accustomed to have a minister
of its own, they would not any longer be governed by deputy.  Fox insisted on being made secretary
of state, much against the King's inclination, as well as the Duke of Newcastle's: for though
his Majesty preferred Fox to Pitt, he liked Sir Thomas Robinson better than either of them;
for Sir Thomas did -is he was directed, understood foreign affairs, and pretended to nothing
further.  However, Fox carried his point." Waldegrave's Memoirs, p. 51.-E.

279 Letter 151 To John Chute, Esq.(618) Arlington Street, Sept. 29, 1755.

I should not answer your letter so soon, as you write so often, if I had not something particular
to tell you.  Mr. Fox is to be secretary of state.  The history of this event, in short, is
this: George Elector of Hanover, and Thomas King of England, have been exceedingly alarmed.
By some misapprehension, the Russian and Hessian treaties, the greatest blessings that were
ever calculated for this country, have been totally, and almost universally disapproved.  Mr.
Legge grew conscientious about them; the Speaker, constitutional; Mr. Pitt, patriot; Sir George
Lee. scrupulous; Lord Egmont, uncertain; the Duke of Devonshire, something that he meant for
some of these; and my uncle, I suppose, frugal-- how you know.  Let a Parliament be ever so
ready to vote for any thing, yet if every body in both Houses is against a thing, why the Parliament
itself can't carry a point against both Houses.  This made such a dilemma, that, after trying
every body else, and being ready to fling up themselves, King Thomas and his Chancellor offered
Mr. Fox the honour of defending and saving them.  He, who is all Christian charity, and forgiving
every body but himself and those who dissuaded him, for not taking the seals before, consented
to undertake the cause of the treaties, and is to have the management of the House Of Commons
as long as he can keep it.  In the mean time, to give his new friends all the assistance he
can, he is endeavouring to bring the Bedfords to court; and if any other person in the world
hates King Thomas, why Mr. Fox is very willing to bring them to court too.  In the mean time,
Mr. Pitt is scouring his old Hanoverian trumpet and Mr. Legge is to accompany him with his
hurdy-gurdy.

Mr. Mann did not tell me a word of his intending you a visit. The reason the Dacres have not
been with you is, they have been at court; and as at present there are as many royal hands
to kiss as a Japanese idol has, it takes some time to slobber through the whole ceremony.

I have some thoughts of going to Bath for a week; though I don't know whether my love for my
country, while my country is in a quandary, may not detain me hereabouts.  When Mr. Muntz has
done, you will be so good as to pacquet him up, and send him to Strawberry.  I rather wish
you would bring him yourself; I am impatient for the drawing you announce to me. A commission
has passed the seals, I mean of' secrecy, (for I don't know whether they must not be stole,)
to get you some swans; and as in this age one ought not to despair of any thing where robbery
is concerned, I have some hopes of succeeding.  If you should want any French ships for your
water, there are great numbers to be had cheap, and small enough.  Adieu!

618) Now first printed.

280 Letter 152 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Sept. 30, 1755.

Solomon says somewhere or other, I think it is in Castelnuovo's edition--is not there such
a one?--that the infatuation of a nation for a foolish minister is like that of a lover for
an ugly woman: when once he opens his eyes, he wonders what the devil bewitched him.  This
is the text to the present sermon in politics, which I shall not divide under three heads,
but tell you at once, that no minister was ever nearer the precipice than ours has been.  I
did tell you, I believe, that Legge had refused to sign the warrant for the Hessian subsidy:
in short, he heartily resented the quick coldness that followed his exaltation, waited for
an opportunity of revenge, found this; and, to be sure, no vengeance ever took speedier strides.
All the world revolted against subsidiary treaties; nobody was left to defend them but Murray,
and he did not care to venture.  Offers of graciousness, of cabinet councillor, or chancellor
of the exchequer, were made to right and left.  Dr. Lee was conscientious; Mr. Pitt might be
brought, in compliment to his Majesty, to digest one--but a system of subsidies--impossible!
In short, the very first ministership was offered to be made over to my Lord Granville. He
begged to be excused--he was not fit for it.  Well, you laugh--all this is fact.  At last we
were forced to strike sail to Mr. Fox he is named for secretary of state, with not only the
lead, but the power of the House of Commons.  You ask, in the room of which secretary? What
signifies of which? Why, I think, of Sir Thomas Robinson, who returns to his wardrobe; and
Lord Barrington comes into the war-office.  This is the present state of things in this grave
reasonable island: the union hug like two cats over a string; the rest are arming for opposition.
But I Will not promise you any more warlike winters; I remember how soon the campaign of the
list was addled.

In Ireland, Mr. Conway has pacified all things: the Irish are to get as drunk as ever to the
glorious and immortal memory of King George, and the prerogative is to be exalted as high as
ever, by being obliged to give up the Primate.  There! I think I have told you volumes: yet
I know you will not be content, you will want to know something of the war, and of America;
but, I assure you, it is not the bon-ton to talk of either this week.  We think not of the
former, and of the latter we should think to very little purpose '. for we have not heard a
syllable more; Braddock's defeat still remains in the situation of the longest battle that
ever was fought with nobody.  Content your English spirit with knowing that there are very
near three thousand French prisoners in England, taken out of several ships.

281 Letter 153 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct. 7, 1755.

My dear sir, Nobody living feels more for you than I do: nobody knows better either the goodness
and tenderness of your heart, or the real value of the person you have lost.' I cannot flatter
myself that any thing I could say would comfort you under an affliction so well founded; but
I should have set out, and endeavoured to share your concern, if Mrs. Trevor had not told me
that you were going into Cheshire.  I will only say, that if you think change of place can
contribute at all to divert your melancholy, you know where you would be most welcome; and
whenever you will come to Strawberry Hill, you will, at least, if you do not find a comforter,
find a most sincere friend that pities your distress, and would do any thing upon earth to
alleviate your misfortune.  If you can listen yet to any advice, let me recommend to you to
give up all thoughts of Greatworth; you will never be able to support life there any more:
let me look out for some little box for you in my neighbourhood.  You can live nowhere where
you will be more beloved; and you will there always have it in your power to enjoy company
Or solitude, as you like.  I have long wished to get you so far back into the world, and now
it is become absolutely necessary for your health and peace.  I will say no more, lest too
long a letter should be either troublesome or make you think it necessary to answer; but do
not, till you find it more agreeable to vent your grief this way than in any other.  I am,
my good Sir, with hearty concern and affection, yours most sincerely.

(619) His sister, Miss Harriet Montagu.

281 Letter 154 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct. 19, 1755.

Do you love royal quarrels?  You may be served-I know you don't love an invasion-nay, that
even passes my taste; it will make too much party.  In short, the lady dowager Prudence begins
to step a little over the threshold of that discretion which she has always hitherto so sanctimoniously
observed. She is suspected of strange whims; so strange, as neither to like more German subsidies
or more German matches.  A strong faction, professedly against the treaties,(620) openly against
Mr. Fox, and covertly under the banners of the aforesaid lady Prudence, arm from all quarters
against the opening of the session.  Her ladyship's eldest boy declares violently against being
bewulfenbuttled,(621) a word which I don't pretend to understand, as it is not in Mr. Johnson's
new dictionary. There! now I have been as enigmatic as ever I have accused you of being; and
hoping you will not be able to expound my German hieroglyphics, I proceed to tell you in plain
English that we are going to be invaded.  I have within this day or two seen grandees of ten,
twenty, and thirty thousand pounds a-year, who are in a mortal fright; consequently, it would
be impertinent in much less folk to tremble, and accordingly they don't.  At court there is
no doubt but an attempt will be made before Christmas.  I find valour is like virtue: impregnable
as they boast themselves, it is discovered that on the first attack both lie strangely open!
They are raising more men, camps are to be formed in Kent and Sussex, the Duke of Newcastle
is frightened out of his wits, which, though he has lost so often, you know he always recovers,
and as fresh as ever.  Lord Egmont despairs of the commonwealth; and I am going to fortify
my castle of Strawberry, according to an old charter I should have had for embattling and making
a deep ditch.  But here am I laughing when I really ought to cry, both with my public eye and
my private one.  I have told you what I think ought to sluice my public eye; and your private
eye too will moisten, when I tell you that poor Miss Harriet Montagu is dead.  She died about
a fortnight ago; but having nothing else to tell you, I would not send a letter so far with
only such melancholy news-and so, you will say, I stayed till I could tell still more bad news.
The truth is, I have for some time had two letters of yours to answer: it is three weeks since
I wrote to you, and one begins to doubt whether one shall ever be to write again.  I will hope
all my best hopes; for I have no sort of intention at this time of day of finishing either
as a martyr or a hero.  I rather intend to live and record both those professions, if need
be; and I have no inclination to scuttle barefoot after a Duke of Wolfenbuttle's army as Philip
de Comines says he saw their graces of Exeter and Somerset trudge after the Duke of Burgundy's.
The invasion, though not much in fashion yet, begins, like Moses's rod, to swallow other news,
both political and suicidical.  Our politics I have sketched out to you, and can only add,
that Mr. Fox's ministry does not as yet promise to be of long duration.  When it was first
thought that he had cot the better of the Duke of Newcastle, Charles Townshend said admirably,
that he was sure the Duchess, like the old Cavaliers, would make a vow not to shave her beard
till the restoration.

I can't recollect the least morsel of a fess or chevron of the Boynets: they did not happen
to enter into any extinct genealogy for whose welfare I interest myself.  I sent your letter
to Mr. Chute, who is still under his own vine: Mr. Muntz is still with him, recovering of a
violent fever. Adieu! If memoirs don't grow too memorable, I think this season will produce
a large crop.

P. S. I believe I scarce ever mentioned to you last Winter the follies of the Opera: the impertinences
of a great singer were too old and common a topic.  I must mention them now, when they rise
to any improvement in the character Of national folly.  The Mingotti, a noble figure, a great
mistress of music, and a most incomparable actress, surpassed any thing I ever saw for the
extravagance of her humours.(622)  She never sung above one night in three, from a fever upon
hot-temper: and never would act at all when Ricciarelli, the first man, was to be in dialogue
with her.(623)  Her fevers grow so high, that the audience caught them, and hissed her more
than once: she herself once turned and hissed again--Tit pro tat geminat phoy d'achamiesmeyn--among
the treaties which a secretary of state has negotiated this summer, he has contracted for a
succedaneum to the Mingotti.  In short, there is a woman hired to sing when the other shall
be- out of humour!

Here is a "World" by Lord Chesterfield:(624) the first part is very pretty, till it runs into
witticism.  I have marked the passages I particularly like.

You would not draw Henry IV. at a siege for me: pray don't draw Louis XV.(625

(620) Lord Chesterfield, in a letter to Mr. Dayrolles, of the 4th of this month, says, "the
next which now draws very near, will, I believe, be a very troublesome one; and I really think
it very doubtful whether the subsidiary treaties with Russia and Cassel will be carried or
not.  To be sure, much may be said against both; but yet I dread the consequences of rejecting
them by Parliament, since they are made."-E.

(621) This is an allusion to a contemplated marriage between the Prince of Wales, afterwards
George the Third, and a daughter of the Duke of Brunswick Wolfenbuttle.  The following is Lord
Waldegrave's account of this project:--"An event happened about the middle of the summer, which
engaged Leicester House still deeper in faction than they at first intended.  The Prince of
Wales was just entering into his eighteenth year; and being of a modest, sober disposition,
with a healthy, vigorous constitution, it might reasonably be supposed that a matrimonial companion
might be no unacceptable amusement.  The Duchess of Brunswick Wolfenbuttle, with her two unmarried
daughters, waited on his Majesty at Hanover. The older, both as to person and understanding,
was a most accomplished Princess: the King was charmed with her cheerful, modest, and sensible
behaviour, and wished to make her his granddaughter, being too old to make her his wife.  I
remember his telling me, with great eagerness, that had he been only twenty years younger,
she would never have been refused by a Prince of Wales, but should at once have been Queen
of England.  Now, whether his Majesty spoke seriously is very little to the purpose; his grandson's
happiness was undoubtedly his principal object; and he was desirous the match might be concluded
before his own death, that the Princess of Wales should have no temptation to do a Job for
her relations, by marrying her son to one of the Saxe Gotha family, who might not have the
amiable accomplishments of the Princess of Wolfenbuttle.  The King's intentions, it may easily
be imagined, were not agreeable to the Princess of Wales.  She knew the temper of the Prince
her son; that he was by nature indolent, hated business, but loved a domestic life, and would
make an excellent husband.  She knew also that the young Princess, having merit and understanding
equal to her beauty, must in a short time have the greatest influence over him.  In which circumstances,
it may naturally be concluded that her Royal Highness did every thing in her Power to prevent
the match.  The Prince of Wales was      taught to believe that he was to be made a sacrifice
merely to gratify the King's private interest in the electorate of Hanover.  The young Princess
was most cruelly misrepresented; many even of her perfections were aggravated into faults;
his Royal Highness implicitly believing every idle tale and improbable assertion, till his
prejudice against her amounted to aversion itself." Memoirs, p. 39.-E.

(622) The following is Dr. Burney's account:--"Upon the success of Jomelli's 'Andromaca' a
damp was thrown by the indisposition of Mingotti, during which Frasi was called upon to play
her part in that opera; when suspicion arising, that Mingotti's was a mere dramatic and political
cold, the public was much out of humour, till she resumed her function in Metastasio's admirable
drama of 'Demofoonte,' in which she acquired more applause, and augmented her theatrical consequence
beyond any period of her performance in England."-E.

(623) "Ricciarelli was a neat and pleasing performer, with a clear, flexible, and silver-toned
voice; but so much inferior to Mingotti, both in singing and acting, that he was never in very
high favour." Burney.-E.

(624) No. 146, Advice to the Ladies on their return to the country.-E.

(625) Alluding to the subject Mr. Walpole had proposed to him for a picture, in the letter
of the 15th of August (letter 143), and to the then expected invasion of' England by Louis XV.

284 Letter 155 To John Chute, Esq.(626) Arlington Street, October 20, 1755.

You know, my dear Sir, that I do not love to have you taken unprepared: the last visit I announced
to you was of the Lord Dacre of the South and of the Lady Baroness, his spouse: the next company
you may expect will be composed of the Prince of Soubise and twelve thousand French; though,
as winter is coming on, they will scarce stay in the country, but hasten to London.  I need
not protest to you I believe, that I am serious, and that an invasion before Christmas will
certainly be attempted; you will believe me at the first word.  It is a little hard, however!
they need not envy us General Braddock's laurels; they were not in such quantity!

Parliamentary and subsidiary politics are in great ferment.  I could tell you much if I saw
you; but I will not while you stay there--yet, as I am a true friend and not to be changed
by prosperity, I can't neglect offering YOU my services when I am cens`e to be well with a
minister.  It is so long since I was, and I believe so little a while that I shall be so,,
(to be sure, I mean that he will be minister,) that I must faire valoir my interest, while
I have any-in short, shall I get you one of these new independent companies ?-Hush! don't tell
Mr. Muntz how powerful I am: his warlike spirit will want to coincide with my ministerial one;
and it would be very inconvenient to the Lords Castlecomers to have him knocked on the head
before he had finished all the strawberries and vines that we lust after.

I had a note from Gray, who is still at Stoke; and he desired I would tell you, that he has
continued pretty well.  Do come. Adieu!

Lottery tickets rise: subsidiary treaties under par--I don't say, no                   price.
Lord Robert Bertie, with a company of the Guards, has                   thrown himself into
Dover castle; don't they sound very war-full?

(626) Now first printed.

285 Letter 156 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 27, 1755.

When the newspapers swarm with our military preparations at home, with encampments, fire-ships,
floating castles at the mouths of the great rivers, etc. in short, when we expect an invasion,
you would chide, or be disposed to chide me, if I were quite silent-and yet, what can I tell
you more than that an invasion is threatened?  that sixteen thousand men are about Dunkirk,
and that they are assembling great quantities of flat-bottomed boats! Perhaps they will attempt
some landing; they are certainly full of resentment; they broke the peace, took our forts and
built others on our boundaries; we did not bear it patiently; we retook two forts, attacked
or have been going to attack others, and have taken vast numbers of their ships: this is the
state of the provocation--what is more provoking, for once we have not sent twenty or thirty
thousand men to Flanders on whom they might vent their revenge.  Well! then they must come
here, and perhaps invite the Pretender to be of the party; not in a very popular light for
him, to be brought by the French in revenge of a national war.  You will ask me, if we are
alarmed? the people not at all so: a minister or two, who are subject to alarms, are--and that
is no bad circumstances We are as much an island as ever, and I think a much less exposed one
than we have been for many years.  Our fleet is vast; our army at home, and ready, and two-thirds
stronger than when we were threatened in 1744; the season has been the wettest that ever has
been known, consequently the roads not very invade-able: and there is the additional little
circumstance of the late rebellion defeated; I believe I may reckon too, Marshal Saxe dead.
You see our situation is not desperate: in short, we escaped in '44, and when the rebels were
at Derby in '45; we must have bad luck indeed, if we fall now.

Our Parliament meets in a fortnight; if no French come, our campaign there will be warm; nay,
and uncommon, the opposition will be chiefly composed of men in place.  You know we always
refine; it used to be an imputation on our senators, that they opposed to get places.  They
now oppose to get better places! We are a comical nation (I Speak with all due regard to our
gravity!)-It were a pity we should be destroyed, if it were only for the sake of posterity;
we shall not be half so droll, if we are either a province to France, or under an absolute
prince of our own.

I am sorry you are losing my Lord Cork; you must balance the loss with that of Miss Pitt,(627)
who is a dangerous inmate. You ask me if I have seen Lord Northumberland's Triumph of Bacchus;(628)
I have not: you know I never approved the thought of those copies and have adjourned my curiosity
till the gallery is thrown open with the first masquerade.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(627) Elizabeth Pitt, sister of Lord Chatham@ She had been maid of honour to Augusta Princess
of Wales; then lived openly with Lord Talbot as his mistress; went to Italy, turned Catholic,
and married; came back, wrote against her brother, and a trifling pamphlet recommending magazines
of corn, and called herself Clara Villiers Pitt.

(628) Hugh, Earl and afterwards Duke of Northumberland, bespoke at a great price five copies
of capital pictures in Italy, by Mentz, Pompeo, Battoni, etc. for his gallery at Northumberland
House.

286 Letter 157 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, October 31, 1755.

As the invasion is not ready, we are forced to take up with a victory.  An account came yesterday,
that General Johnson(629) had defeated the French near the lake St. Sacrement, had killed one
thousand, and taken the lieutenant-general who commanded them prisoner! his name is Dieskau,
a Saxon, an esteemed `el`eve of Marshal Saxe.  By the printed account, which I enclose, Johnson
showed great generalship and bravery. As the whole business was done by irregulars, it does
not lessen the faults of Braddock, and the panic of his troops. If I were so disposed, I could
conceive that there are heroes in the world who are not quite pleased with this extra- martinette
success(630)--but we won't blame those Alexanders, till they have beaten the French in Kent!
You know it will be time enough to abuse them, when they have done all the service they can!
The other enclosed paper is another World,(631) by my Lord Chesterfield; not so pretty, I think,
as the last; yet it has merit.  While England and France are at war, and Mr. Fox and Mr. Pitt
going to war, his lordship is coolly amusing himself at picquet at Bath with a Moravian baron,
who would be in prison, if his creditors did not occasionally release him to play with and
cheat my Lord Chesterfield, as the only chance they have for recovering their- money!

We expect the Parliament to be thronged., and great animosities.  I will not send you one of
the eggs that are laid; for so many political ones have been addled of late years, that I believe
all the state game-cocks in the world are impotent.

I did not doubt but u would be struck with the death of poor Bland.(632)  I, t'other night,
at White's, found a very remarkable entry in our very-very remarkable wager-book: "Lord Mountford(633)
bets Sir John Bland twenty guineas that Nash outlives Cibbor!" How odd that these two old creatures,
selected for their antiquities, should live to see both their wagerers put an end to their
own lives! Cibber is within a few days of eighty-four, still hearty, and clear, and well. 
I told him I was glad to see him look so well: "Faith," said he, "it is very well that I look
at all!"--I shall thank you for the Ormer shells and roots; and shall desire your permission
to finish my letter already.  As the Parliament is to meet so soon, you are likely to be overpowered
with my despatches.--I have been thinning my wood of trees and planting them out more into
the field: I am fitting up the old kitchen for a china-room: I am building a bedchamber for
my self over the old blue-room, in which I intend to die, though not yet; and some trifles
of this kind, which I do not specify to you, because I intend to reserve a little to be quite
new to you. Adieu!

(629) In the Following month created Sir William Johnson, Bart.  Parliament was so satisfied
with his conduct on this occasion, that it voted him the sum of 5000 pounds.  He afterwards
distinguished himself as a negotiator with the Indian tribes, and was ultimately chosen colonel
of the Six Nations, and superintendent of Indian affairs for the northern parts of America.
He became well acquainted with the manners and language of the Indians, and in 1772, sent to
the Royal Society some valuable communications relative to them.  He died in 1774.-E.

(630) Alluding to the Duke of Cumberland.

(631) No. 148, On Civility and Good-breeding.-E.

(632) Sir John Bland, member for Luggershall.  The event took place on the road between Calais
and Paris.-E.

(633) Lord Mountford would have been the winner.  Colley Cibber died in 1757: Beau Nash survived
till 1761.  A very entertaining Memoir of the King of Bath will be found in Mr. Murray's enlarged
and elegant edition of Goldsmith's Miscellaneous Works.  It is matter of surprise, that so
many pieces, from the pen of the delightful author of the Vicar of Wakefield, should have so
long remained uncollected.-E.

287 Letter 158 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Nov. 8, 1755.

My dear sir, You oblige me extremely by giving me this commission; and though I am exceedingly
unlike Solomon in every thing else, I will at least resemble him in remembering you to the
Hiram from whom I obtained my cedars of libanus.  He is by men called Christopher Gray, nurseryman
at Fulham.  I mention cedars first, because they are the most beautiful of the evergreen race,
and because they are the dearest; half a guinea apiece in baskets.  The arbutus are scarce
a crown apiece, but they are very beautiful: the lignumvitae I would not recommend to you;
they stink abominably if you touch them, and never make a handsome tree: The Chinese arborvitae
is very beautiful.  I have a small nursery myself, scarce bigger than one of those pleasant
gardens which Solomon describes, and which if his fair one meant the church, I suppose must
have meant the churchyard.  Well, out of this little parsley-bed of mine, I can furnish you
with a few plants, particularly three Chinese arborvitaes, a dozen of the New England or Lord
Weymouth's pine, which is that beautiful tree that we have so much admired at the Duke of Argyle's
for its clean straight stem, the lightness of its hairy green, and for being feathered quite
to the ground: they should stand in a moist soil, and Care must be taken every year to clear
away all plants and trees round them, that they may have free air and room to expand themselves.
Besides these' I shall send you twelve stone or Italian pine, twelve pinasters, twelve black
spruce firs, two Caroline cherries, thirty evergreen cytisus, a pretty shrub that grows very
fast, and may be cut down as you please, fifty Spanish brooms, and six acacias, the genteelest
tree of all, but you must take care to plant them in a first row, and where they will be well
sheltered, for the least wind tears and breaks them to pieces.  All these are ready, whenever
you will give me directions, how and where to send them.  They are exceedingly small, as I
have but lately taken to propagate myself; but then they will travel more safely, will be more
sure of living, and will grow faster than larger.  Other sorts Of trees that you must have,
are silver and Scotch firs; Virginia cedars, which should stand forwards and have nothing touch
them; and above all cypresses, which, I think, are my chief passion; there is nothing So picturesque,
where they Stand two or three in a clump, upon a little hillock, or rising above low shrubs,
and particularly near buildings.  There is another bit of picture, of which I am fond, and
that is a larch or a spruce fir planted behind a weeping willow, and shooting upwards as the
willow depends.  I think for courts about a house, or winter gardens, almond trees mixed with
evergreens, particularly with Scotch firs, have a pretty effect, before any thing else comes
out; whereas almond trees being generally planted among other trees, and being in bloom before
other trees have leaves, have no ground to show the beauty of their blossoms.  Gray at Fulham
sells cypresses in pots at half a crown apiece; you turn them out of the pot with all their
mould, and they never fall.  I think this is all you mean; if you have anymore garden-questions
or commissions, you know you command my little knowledge.

I am grieved that you have still any complaints left. Dissipation, in my opinion, will be the
best receipt; and I do not speak merely for my own sake, when I tell you, how much I wish to
have you keep your resolution of coming to town before Christmas.  I am still more pleased
with the promise you make to Strawberry, which you have never seen in its green coat since
it cut its teeth.  I am here all alone, and shall stay till Tuesday, the day after the birthday.
On Thursday begins our warfare, and if we may believe signs and tokens, our winter will be
warlike-.  I mean at home; I have not much faith in the invasion.  Her Royal Highness and His
Royal Highness(634) are likely to come to an open rupture.  His grace of Newcastle, who, I
think, has gone under every nickname, waits, I believe to see to which he will cling. There
have been two Worlds by my Lord Chesterfield lately, very pretty, the rest very indifferent.

(634) The Princess Dowager and the Duke of Cumberland.

 289 Letter 159
To The Hon. H. S. Conway.
Arlington street, Nov. 15, 1755.

I promised you histories, and there are many people that take care I should have it in my power
to keep my word.  To begin in order, I should tell you that there were 289 members at the Cockpit
meeting, the greatest number ever known there: but Mr. Pitt, who is too great a general to
regard numbers, especially when there was a probability of no great harmony between the commanders,
did not, however, postpone giving battle.  The engagement was not more decisive than long:
we sat till within a quarter of five in the morning; an uninterrupted serious debate from before
two.  Lord Hillsborough moved the address, and very injudiciously supposed an opposition. 
Martin, Legge's secretary, moved to omit in the address the indirect approbation of the treaties,
and the direct assurances of protection to Hanover.  These questions were at length divided:
and against Pitt's inclination, the last, which was the least unpopular, was first decided
by a majority of 311 against 105.  Many then went away; and on the next division the numbers
were 290 to 89.  These are the general outlines. The detail of the speeches, which were very
long, and some extremely fine, it would be impossible to give you in any compass.  On the side
of the opposition, (which I must tell you by the way, though it set out decently, seems extremely
resolved) the speakers (I name them in their order) were: the 3d Colebrook, Martin, Northey,
Sir Richard Lyttelton, Doddington, George Grenville, Sir F. Dashwood, Beckford, Sir G. Lee,
Legge, Potter, Dr. Hay, George Townshend, Lord Egmont, Pitt, and Admiral Vernon on the other
side were, Lord Hillsborough, Obrien, young Stanhope,(635) Hamilton, Alstone, Ellis, Lord Barrington,
Sir G. Lyttelton, Nugent, Murray, Sir T. Robinson, my uncle, and Mr. Fox.  As short as I can,
I will give you an account of them.  Sir Richard, Beckford, Potter, G. Townshend, the Admiral
of course, Martin, Stanhope, and Ellis, were very bad: Doddington was well, but very acceding:
Dr. Hay by no means answers his reputation; it was easy but not striking.  Lord Egmont was
doubting, absurd, and obscure. Sir G. Lee and Lord Barrington were much disliked; I don't think
so deservedly.  Poor Alstone was mad, and spoke ten times to order.  Sir George(636) our friend,
was dull and timid.  Legge was the latter.  Nugent roared, and Sir Thomas rumbled.  My uncle
did justice to himself, and was as wretched and dirty as his whole behaviour for his coronet
has been. Mr. Fox was extremely fatigued, and did little.  Geo. Grenville's was very fine and
much beyond himself, and very pathetic.  The Attorney-general(637) in the same style, and very
artful, was still finer.  Then there was a young Mr. Hamilton,(638) who spoke for the first
time, and was at Once perfection: his speech set, and full of antithesis, but those antitheses
were full of argument: indeed his speech was the most argumentative of the whole day; and he
broke through the regularity of his own composition, answered other people, and fell into his
own track again with the greatest ease.  His figure is advantageous, his voice strong and clear,
his manner spirited, and the whole with the ease of an established speaker.  You will ask,
what could be beyond this?  Nothing, but what was beyond what ever was, and that was Pitt!
He spoke at past one, for an hour and thirty-five minutes: there was more humour, wit, vivacity,
finer language, more boldness, in short, more astonishing perfections, than even you who are
used to him, can conceive. He was not abusive, yet very attacking on all sides: he ridiculed
my Lord Hillsborough, crushed poor Sir George, terrified the Attorney, lashed my Lord Granville,
painted my Lord of Newcastle, attacked Mr. Fox, and even hinted up to the Duke.(639)  A few
of the Scotch were in the minority, and most of the Princess's people, not all: all the Duke
of Bedford's in the majority.  He himself spoke in the other House for the address (though
professing incertainty about the treaties themselves), against my Lord Temple and Lord Halifax,
without a division.  My Lord Talbot was neuter; he and I were of a party: my opinion was strongly
with the opposition; I could not vote for the treaties; I would not vote against Mr. Fox. 
It is ridiculous perhaps, at the end of such a debate, to give an account of my own silence;
and as it is of very little consequence what I did, so it is very unlike me to justify myself.
You know how much I hate professions of integrity; and my pride is generally too great to care
what the generality of people say of me: but your heart is good enough to make me wish you
should think well of mine.

You will want to know what is to be the fate of the ministry in opposition: but that I can't
tell you.  I don't believe they have determined what to do, more than oppose, nor that it is
determined what to do with them.  Though it is clear that it is very humiliating to leave them
in place, you may conceive several reasons why it is not eligible to dismiss them.  You know
where you are, how easy it is to buy an opposition who have not places; but tell us what to
do with an opposition that has places? If you say, Turn them out; I answer, That is not the
way to quiet any opposition, or a ministry so constituted as ours at present.  Adieu!

(635) Son of the Earl of Chesterfield; who upon this occasion addressed the House for the first
time.  "His father," says Dr. Maty, "took infinite pains to prepare him for his first appearance
as a speaker.  The young man seems to have succeeded tolerably well upon the whole, but on
account of his shyness was obliged to stop, and, if I am not mistaken, to have recourse to
his notes.  Lord Chesterfield used every argument in his power to comfort him, and to inspire
him with confidence and courage to make some other attempt; but I have not heard that Mr. Stanhope
ever spoke again in the House."- E.

(636) Sir George Lyttelton.

(637) William Murray, afterwards Lord Mansfield.

(638) William Gerard Hamilton.  It was this speech which, not being followed, as was naturally
expected, by repeated exhibitions of similar eloquence, acquired for him the name of single-speech
Hamilton.

(639) The Duke of Cumberland.

291 Letter 160 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, November 16, 1755.

Never was poor invulnerable Immortality so soon brought to shame! Alack! I have had the gout!
would fain have persuaded myself that it was a sprain: and, then, that it was only the gout
come to look for Mr. Chute at Strawberry Hill: but none of my evasions will do! I was, certainly,
lame for two days; and though I repelled it--first, by getting wet-shod, and then by spirits
of camphor; and though I have since tamed it more rationally by leaving off the little wine
I drank, I still know where to look for it whenever I have an occasion for a political illness.
Come, my constitution is not very much broken, when, in four days after such a mortifying attack,
I could sit in the House of Commons, full as possible, from two at noon till past five in the
morning, as we did but last Thursday.  The new opposition attacked the address.  Who are the
new opposition? Why, the old opposition-- Pitt and the Grenvilles; indeed, with Legge instead
of Sir George Lyttelton.  Judge how entertaining it was to me to hear Lyttelton answer Grenville,
and Pitt Lyttelton! The debate, long and uninterrupted as it was, was a great deal of it extremely
fine: the numbers did not answer to the merit: the new friends, the Duke of Newcastle and Mr.
Fox, had 311 to 105.  The bon-mot in fashion is, that the staff was very good, but they wanted
private Men. Pitt surpassed himself, and then I need not tell you that he surpassed Cicero
and Demosthenes. What a figure would they, with their formal, laboured, cabinet orations, make
vis-`a-vis his manly vivacity and dashing eloquence at one o'clock in the morning, after sitting
in that heat for eleven hours! He spoke above an hour and a half, with scarce a bad sentence:
the most admired part was a comparison he drew of the two parts of the new administration,
to the conflux of the Rhone and the Saone; "the latter a gentle, feeble, languid stream, languid
but not deep; the other a boisterous and overbearing torrent; but they joined at last; and
long may they continue united, to the comfort of each other, and to the glory, honour, and
happiness of this nation!"  I hope you are not mean-spirited enough to dread an invasion, when
the senatorial contests are reviving in the temple of Concord.-But will it make a party? Yes,
truly: I never saw so promising a prospect.  Would not it be cruel, at such a period, to be
laid up?

I have only had a note from you to promise me a letter; but it is not arrived:--but the partridges
are, and well; and I thank you.

England seems returning:(640) for those who are not in Parliament, there are nightly riots
at Drury-lane, where there is an anti-Gallican party against some French dancers.  The young
men of quality have protected them till last night, when, being Opera night, the galleries
were victorious.(641)

Montagu writes me many kind things for you; he is in Cheshire, but comes to town this winter.
Adieu! I have so much to say, that I have time to say but very little.

P. S. George Selwyn hearing much talk of a sea-war or a continent, said, , I am for a sea-war
and a continent admiral."

(640) Walpole means the disposition towards mobs and rioting at public places, which was then
common among young men, and had been a sort of fashion in his early youth.-E.

(641) A spectacle brought out by Garrick, in the beginning of this month, at Drury-lane gave
great offence to the public, in consequence of the number of foreigners employed in it; and,
on the sixth representation, a violent riot took place, by which a damage to the theatre was
incurred of several thousand pounds.-E.

292 Letter 161 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Nov. 16, 1755.

I have received a letter from you of Oct. 25th, full of expectation of the invasion I announced
to you-but we have got two new parties erected, and if you imagine that the invasion is attended
to, any more than as it is played off by both those parties, you know little of England.  The
Parliament met three days ago: we have been so un-English lately as to have no parties at all,
have now got what never was seen before, an opposition in administration.  Mr. Pitt, Mr. Legge,
and their adherents, no great number, have declared open and unrelenting war with the Duke
of Newcastle and Mr. Fox; and on the address, which hinted approbation of the late treaties,
and promised direct support of Hanover, we sat till five the next morning.  If eloquence could
convince, Mr. Pitt would have had more than 105 against 31 1; but it is long since the arts
of persuasion were artful enough to persuade-rhetoric was invented before places and commissions!
The expectation of the world is suspended, to see whether these gentlemen will resign or be
dismissed: perhaps neither; perhaps they may continue in place and opposition; perhaps they
may continue in place and not oppose.  Bossuet wrote "L'Histoire des Variations de l'Eglise"-I
think I could make as entertaining a history, though not so well written, "des Variations de
l'Etat:"i mean of changes and counterchanges of party.  The Duke of Newcastle thought himself
undone, beat up all quarters for support, and finds himself stronger than ever.  Mr. Fox was
thought SO unpopular, that his support was thought as dangerous as want of defence; every thing
bows to him.  The Tories hate both him and Pitt so much, that they sit still to see them worry
one another; they don't seem to have yet found out that while there are parts and ambition,
they will be obliged to follow and to hate by turns every man who has both.

I don't at all understand my Lady Orford's politics; but that is no wonder, when I am sure
she does not understand ours. Nobody knows what to make of the French inactivity: if they intend
some great stroke, the very delay and forbearance tells us to prepare for it, and a surprise
prepared for loses much of its value.  For my own part, I have not prophetic sagacity enough
to foresee what will be even the probable event either of our warlike or domestic politics.
I desired your brother to write you an account of General Johnson's victory; the only great
circumstance in our favour that has happened yet.  The greatest mystery of all is the conduct
of Admiral Boscawen: since he left England, though they write private letters to their friends,
he and all his officers have not sent a single line to the Admiralty; after great pain and
uncertainty about him, a notion prevailed yesterday, how well-founded I know not, that without
any orders he is gone to attack Louisbourgh-considering all I have mentioned, he ought to be
very sure of success.  Adieu! my dear Sir, I have told you the heads of all I know, and have
not time to be more particular.

P. S. I am glad to be able to contradict an untruth, before I send it away -. Admiral Boscawen
and his fleet are arrived, and have brought along with them a French man-of-war of seventy-four
guns.

293 Letter 162 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, November 25, 1755.

I have been so hurried since I came to town, and so enclosed in the House of Commons, that
I have not been able to write a line sooner.  I now write, to notify that your plants will
set out according to your direction next Monday, and are ordered to be left at Namptwich.

I differ with the doctors about planting evergreens in spring; if it happens to be wet weather,
it may be better than exposing them to a first winter: but the cold dry winds, that generally
prevail in spring, are ten times more pernicious. In my own opinion, the end of September is
the best season, for then they shoot before the hard weather comes.  But the plants I send
you are so very small, that they are equally secure in any season, and would bear removing
in the middle of summer; a handful of dung will clothe them all for the whole winter.

There is a most dreadful account of an earthquake in Lisbon,(642) but several people will not
believe it.  There have been lately such earthquakes and waterquakes, and rocks rent, and other
strange phenomena, that one would think the world exceedingly out of repair.  I am not prophet
enough to believe that such convulsions relate solely to the struggles between Mr. Pitt and
Mr. Fox, or even portend any between the Georges and Jameses.  You have already heard, I suppose,
that Pitt, Legge, and George Grenville, are dismissed, and that Sir George Lyttelton is chancellor
of the exchequer.  My Lord Temple says that Sir George Lyttelton said he would quit his place
when they did, and that he has kept his word! The world expects your cousin to resign; but
I believe all efforts are used to retain him.  Joan, the fair maid of Saxe-Gotha, did not speak
to Mr. Fox or Sir George when they kissed her hand last Sunday.  No more places are vacated
or filled up yet.

It is an age since I have heard from Mr. Bentley; the war or the weather have interrupted all
communication.  Adieu! let me know at your leisure, when one is likely to see you.

(642) The dreadful earthquake, on the 1st of November, which laid nearly the whole city in
ruins.  The number of inhabitants who lost their lives was variously reported, but generally
estimated at about ten thousand.-E.

294 Letter 163 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 4, 1755.

Long before you receive this, my dear Sir, you will have learned general, if not particular
accounts of the dreadful desolation at Lisbon: the particulars indeed are not yet come hither;
all we have heard hitherto is from France, and from Sir Benjamin Keene at Madrid.  The catastrophe
is greater than ever happened even in your neighbourhood, Naples.  Our share is very considerable,
and by some reckoned at four millions. We are despatching a ship with a present of an hundred
thousand pounds in provisions and necessaries, for they want every thing.  There have been
Kings of Spain who would have profited of such a calamity; but the present MONARCH has only
acted as if he had a title to Portugal, by showing himself a father to that people.(643)

We are settled, politically, into a regular opposition.  Mr. Pitt, Mr. Legge, and George Grenville
have received their dismissions, and oppose regularly.  Sir George Lyttelton, who last year
with that connexion, is made chancellor of the exchequer.  As the subsidies are not yet voted,
and as the opposition, though weak in numbers, are very strong in speakers, no other places
will be given away till Christmas, that the re-elections may be made in the holidays.

There are flying reports that General Johnson, our only hero at present, has taken Crown Point,
but the report is entirely unconfirmed by any good authority.  The invasion that I announced
to you, is very equivocal; there is some suspicion that it was only called in as an ally to
the subsidiary treaties: many that come from France say, that on their coasts they are dreading
an invasion from us.  Nothing is certain but their forbearance and good breeding-the meaning
of that is very uncertain.

Shall I send away a letter with only these three paragraphs! I must if I write at all.  There
are no private news at all! the earthquake, the opposition, and the war, are the only topics;
each of those topics will be very fruitful, and you shall hear of their offspring-at present,
good night!

(643) The Spanish monarch did not long preserve that spirit of justice.

295 Letter 164 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Dec. 17, 1755.

After an immense interval, I have at last received a long letter from you, of a very old date
(November 5th), which amply indemnifies my patience - nay, almost makes me amends for your
blindness; for I think, unless you had totally lost your eyes, you would not refuse me a pleasure
so easy to yourself as now and then sending me a drawing.  I can't call it laziness; one may
be too idle to amuse one's self, but sure one is never so fond of idleness as to prefer it
to the power of obliging a person one loves! And yet I own your letter has made me amends,
the wit of your pen recompenses the stupidity of your pencil; the caestus you have taken up
supplies a little the artem you have relinquished.  I could quote twenty passages that have
charmed me: the picture of Lady Prudence and her family; your idol that gave you hail when
you prayed for sunshine; misfortune the teacher of superstition; unmarried people being the
fashion in heaven; the Spectator- hacked phrases; Mr. Spence's blindness to Pope's mortality;
and, above all, the criticism on the Queen in Hamlet, is most delightful.  There never was
so good a ridicule of all the formal commentators on Shakspeare, nor so artful a banter on
himself for so improperly making her Majesty deal in double-entendres at a funeral.  In short,
I never heard as much wit, except in a speech with which mr. Pitt concluded the debate t'other
day on the treaties.  His antagonists endeavour to disarm him, but as fast as they deprive
him of one weapon, he finds a better; I never suspected him of such an universal armoury-I
knew he had a Gorgon's head, composed of bayonets and pistols, but little thought that he could
tickle to death with a feather.  On the first debate on these famous treaties, last Wednesday,
Hume Campbell, whom the Duke of Newcastle had retained as the most abusive counsel he could
find against Pitt (and hereafter perhaps against Fox), attacked the former for eternal invectives.
Oh! since the last philippic of Billingsgate memory you never heard such an invective as Pitt
returned-Hume Campbell was annihilated! Pitt, like an angry wasp, seems to have left his sting
in the wound, and has since assumed a style of delicate ridicule and repartee.  But think how
charming a ridicule must that be that lasts and rises, flash after flash, for an hour and a
half! Some day or other, perhaps you will see some of the glittering splinters that I gathered up.

Indeed, we have wanted such an entertainment to enliven and make the fatigue supportable. 
We sat on Wednesday till ten at night; on Friday till past three in the morning; on Monday
till between nine and ten.(644)  We have profusion of orators, and many very great, which is
surprising so soon after the leaden age(645 of the late Right Honourable Henry Saturnus!(646)
The majorities are as great as in Saturnus's golden age.

Our changes are begun; but not being made at once, our very changes change.  Lord Duplin and
Lord Darlington are made joint paymasters: George Selwyn says, that no act ever showed so much
the Duke of Newcastle's absolute power as his being able to make Lord Darlington a paymaster.
That so often repatriated and reprostituted Doddington is again to be treasurer of the navy;
and he again drags out Harry Furnese into the treasury.  The Duke of Leeds is to be cofferer,
and Lord Sandwich emerges so far as to be chief justice in eyre. The other parts by the comedians;
I don't repeat their names, because perhaps the fellow that to-day is designed to act Guildenstern,
may to-morrow be destined to play half the part of the second grave-digger.(647)  However,
they are all to kiss hands on Saturday.  mr. Pitt told me to-day that he should not go to Bath
till next week.  "I fancy," said I, "you scarce stay to kiss hands."

With regard to the invasion, which you are so glad to be allowed to fear, I must tell you that
it is quite gone out of fashion again, and I really believe was dressed up for a vehicle (as
the apothecaries call it) to make us swallow the treaties.  All along the coast of France they
are much more afraid of an invasion than we are.

As obliging as you are in sending me plants, I am determined to thank you for nothing but drawings.
I am not to be bribed to silence, when you really disoblige me.  Mr. Muntz has ordered more
cloths for you.  I even shall send you books unwillingly; and, indeed, why should I? As you
are stone-blind, what can you do with them?  The few I shall send you, for there are scarce
any now, will be a pretty dialogue by Cr`ebillon; a strange imperfect poem, written by Voltaire
when he was very young, which with some charming strokes has a great deal of humour manqu`e
and of impiety estropi`ee; and an historical romance, by him too, of the last war, in which
is so outrageous a lying anecdote of old Marlborough, as would have convinced her, that when
poets write history they stick as little to truth in prose as in verse.  Adieu!

(644) Lord Chesterfield, in a letter to Mr. Dayrolles of the 19th, says, "The House of Commons
sits three or four times a week till nine or ten at night, and sometimes till four or five
in the morning; so attentive are they to the good of their dear country.  That zeal has of
late transported them into much personal abuse.  Even our insignificant House sat one day last
week till past ten at night upon the Russian and Hessian treaties; but I was not able to sit
it out, and left it at seven, more than half dead; for I took it into my head to speak upon
them for near an hour, which fatigue, together with the heat of the house, very nearly annihilated
me.  I was for the Russian treaty as a prudent eventual measure at the beginning of a war,
and probably preventive even of a war in that part of the world; but I could not help exposing,
though without opposing, the Hessian treaty, which is, indeed, the most extraordinary one I
ever saw."-E.

(645) " Here, pleased, behold her mighty wings outspread, To hatch a new Saturnian age of Lead."
Dunciad.-E.

(646) Mr. Pelham.

(647) "Places," writes Lord Chesterfield to Mr. Dayrolles on the 19th, "are emptying and filling
every day.  The patriot of Monday is the courtier of Tuesday, and the courtier of Wednesday
is the patriot of Thursday.  This, indeed, has more or less been long the case, but I really
think never so impudently and so profligately as now. @The power is all falling from his Grace's
into Fox's hands; which, you may remember, I told you long ago would happen."-E.

297 Letter 165 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Dec. 20, 1755.

I am very much pleased that you are content with what are to be trees a thousand years hence,
though they were the best my Libanus afforded.  I was afraid you would think I had sent you
a bundle of picktooths, instead of pines and firs: may you live to chat under their shade!
I am still more pleased to hear that you are to be happy in some good fortune to the Colonel:
he deserves it; but, alas! what a claim is that! Whatever makes him happy, makes you so, and
consequently me.

A regular opposition, composed of immense abilities, has entertained us for this month.  George
Grenville, Legge, a Dr. Hay, a Mr. Elliot, have shone; Charles Townshend lightened; Pitt has
rode in the whirlwind, and directed the storm with abilities beyond the common reach of the
genii of a tempest. As soon as that storm has a little spent its fury, the dew of preferments
begins to fall and fatten the land.  Moses and Aaron differ indeed a little in which shall
dispense the manna, and both struggle for their separate tribes.  Earl Gower is privy seal,
the Lords Darlington and Dublin joint paymasters, Lord Gage paymaster of the pensions, Mr.
O'Brien in the treasury.  That old rag of a dishclout ministry, Henry Furnese, is to be the
other lord.  Lord Bateman and Dick Edgcumbe(648) are the new admirals; Rigby, Soame Jennings,
and Talbot the Welsh judge, lords of trade; the Duke of Leeds cofferer, Lord Sandwich chief
justice in eyre, Ellis and Lord Sandys (autre dishclout) divide the half of the treasury of
Ireland, George Selwyn paymaster of the board of works, Arundel is to have a pension in Ireland,
and Lord Hillsborough succeeds him -,is treasurer of the chambers, though I thought he was
as fond of his white staff as my Lord Hobart will be, who is to have it.  There, if you love
new politics! You understand, to make these vacancies, that Charles Townshend and John Pitt
are added to the dismissed and dead.

My Lord Townshend is dying; the young Lord Pembroke marries the charming Lady Betty Spencer.(649)
The French are thought to have passed eldest as to England, and to intend to take in Hanover.
I know an old potentate who had rather have the gout in his stomach than in that little toe.
Adieu! I have sent your letter; make my compliments, and come to town.

648) Lord Edgecumbe.

(649) Second daughter of Charles second Duke of Marlborough.-E.

298 Letter 166 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 12, 1755.

I am glad, my dear Sir, that you have not wasted many alarms on the invasion; it does not seem
to have been ever intended by the French.  Our ministers, who are not apt to have any intelligence,
have now only had bad: they spread that idea; it took for some days, but is vanished.  I believe
we tremble more really for Hanover: I can't say I do; for while we have that to tremble for,
we shall always be to tremble.  Great expectations of a peace prevail; as it is not likely
to be good, it is not a season for venturing a bad one.  The opposition, though not numerous,
is now composed of very determined and very great men; more united than the ministry, and at
least as able.  the resistance to the treaties has been made with immense capacity: Mr. Pitt
has shone beyond the greatest horizon of his former lustre.  The Holidays are arrived, and
now the changes are making; but many of the recruits, old deserters, old cashiered, old fagots,
add very little credit to the new coalition.  The Duke of Newcastle and his coadjutor Mr. Fox
squabble twice for agreeing once: as I wish so well to the latter, I lament what he must wade
through to real power, if ever he should arrive there.  Underneath I shall catalogue the alterations,
with an additional letter to each name, to particularize the corps to which each belongs.

Sir George Lyttelton, N. chancellor of the exchequer, in the room of Mr. Legge, dismissed.

Duke of Leeds, N. Cofferer, in the room of Sir George Lyttelton,

Mr. T. Brudenell N., Deputy. in the room of mr. Clare.

Mr. Doddington, F. Treasurer of the Navy, in the room of Sir G. Grenville, dismissed.

Lords Darlington N. and Duplin N. Joint Paymasters, in the room of mr. Pitt, dismissed

Duke of Marlborough, F. Master of the Ordnance.  Long Vacant.

Earl Gower, F., Lord Privy Seal, in the room of the duke of Marlborough.

Lord Gage, N., Paymaster of Pensions, in the room of Mr. Compton, dead,

Mr. Obrien, N. and mr. Henry Furnese, Lords of the Treasury, in the room of Lord Darlington
and Lord Duplin.

Lord Bateman, F., and Mr. Edgcumbe, F. Lords of the Admiralty, in the room of mr. C. Townshend,
dismissed and Mr. Ellis.

Judge Talbot Mr. S. Jennings, N. and mr. Rigby, F., Lords of Trade, in the room of Mr. J. Grenville,
resigned, Mr. T. Pitt, dismissed, and Mr. Edgcumbe.

mr. Arundel, N., Pension on Ireland.

Lord Hilsborough, F. Treasurer of Chambers, in the room of mr. Arundel.

Lord Hobart, N., Comptroller of the Household, in the room of Lord Hilsborough.

George Selwyn, F., Paymaster of the Board of works, in the room of Mr. Denzil Onslow.

Lord cholmondeley, who had had half before to divide Vice- Treasurer of Ireland with Lord Sandwich,
F., and Mr. Ellis, F. in the room of Sir w. Yonge, deceased.

Lord Berkeley of Stratton, F., Treasurer of the Household, in the room of Lord Fitzwalter, dying.

Lord Sandys, N., Chief Justice in eyre, in the room of the duke of Leeds.

As numerous as these changes are, they are not so extraordinary as the number of times that
each designation has been changed.  The four last have not yet kissed hands, so I do not give
you them for certain.  You will smile at seeing Doddington again revolved to the court, and
Lord Sandys and Harry Furnese, two of the most ridiculous objects in the succession to my father's
ministry, again dragged out upon the stage: perhaps it may not give you too high an idea of
the stability or dignity of the new arrangement; but as the Duke of Newcastle has so often
turned in and out all men in England, he must employ some Of The same dukes over again.  In
short, I don't know whether all this will make your ministerial gravity smile, but it makes
me laugh out.  Adieu!

P. S. I must mention the case of my Lord Fitzwalter,(650) which all the faculty say exceeds
any thing known in their practice: he is past eighty-four, was an old beau, and had scarce
ever more sense than he has at present; he has lived many months upon fourteen barrels of oysters,
four-and-twenty bottles of port, and some, I think seven, bottles of brandy per week.  What
will Dr. Cocchi, with his Vitto Pittagorico, say to this?

(650) Charles Mildmay, Earl Fitzwalter, so created May 14, 1730.  He died without issue, Feb.
29, 1756, when his earldom became extinct; and the old barony of Fitzwalter fell into abeyance
among females.-D.

299 Letter 167 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Dec. 30, 1755.

As I know how much you are my friend and take part in my joy, I cannot help communicating to
you an incident that has given much pleasure.  You know how much I love Mr. Mann-well, I don't
enter into that, nor into a detail of many hardships that he has suffered lately, which made
me still more eager to serve him.  As some regiments have been just given away, I cast my eyes
about to see if I could not help him to clothing. Among the rest, there was one new colonel,(651)
whom I could not assume enough to call my friend, but who is much connected with one that is
so.  As the time passed, I did not stay to go round about, but addressed myself directly to
the person himself--but I was disappointed; the disaster was, that he had left his quarters
and was come to town.  Though I immediately gave it up in my own mind, knew how incessantly
he would be pressed from much more powerful quarters, concluded he would be engaged, I wrote
again; that letter was as useless as the first, and from what reason do you think? Why this
person, in spite of all solicitations, nay previous to any, had already thought of Mr. Mann,
and recollected it would oblige me and my friend in the country, and had actually given his
clothing to Mr. Mann, before he received either of my letters.  Judge how agreeably I have
been surprised, and how much the manner has added to my obligation! You will be still more
pleased when you hear the character of this officer, which I tell you willingly, because I
know you country gentlemen are apt to contract prejudices, and to fancy that no virtues grow
out of your own shire; yet by this one sample, you will find them connected with several circumstances
that are apt to nip their growth.  He is of as good a family as any in England, yet in this
whole transaction he has treated me with as much humility is if I was of as good a family and
as if I had obliged him, not he me.  In the next place, I have no power to oblige him; then,
though he is young and in the army, he is as good, as temperate, as meek, as if he was a curate
on preferment; and yet with all these meek virtues, nobody has distinguished themselves by
more personal bravery-and what is still more to his praise, though he has so greatly established
his courage, he is as regular in his duty, and submits as patiently to all the tedious exiles
and fatigues of it, as if he had no merit at all; but I will say no more, lest you imagine
that the present warmth of my gratitude makes me exaggerate.  No, you will not, when you know
that all I have said relates to your own brother, Colonel Charles Montagu.  I did not think
he could have added still to my satisfaction; but he has, by giving me hopes Of seeing you
in town next week-till then, adieu!  Yours as entirely as is consistent with my devotedness
to your brother.

(651) Colonel Charles Montagu, this day appointed to the command of the 59th regiment of foot.-E.

300 Letter 168 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Jan. 6, 1756.

I am quite angry with you: you write me letters so entertaining that they make me almost forgive
your not drawing: now, you know, next to being disagreeable, there is nothing so shocking as
being too agreeable.  However, as I am a true philosopher, and can resist any thing I like
better, I declare, that if you don't coin the vast ingot of colours and cloth that I have sent
you, I will burn your letters unopened.

Thank you for all your concern about my gout, but I shall not mind you; it shall appear in
my stomach before I attempt to keep it out of it by a fortification of wine: I only drank a
little two days after being very much fatigued in the House, and the worthy pioneer began to
cry succour from my foot the next day.  However, though I am determined to feel young still,
I grow to take the hints age gives me; I come hither oftener, I leave the town to the young;
and though the busy turn that the world has taken draws me back into it, I excuse it to myself,
and call it retiring into politics.  From hence I must retire, or I shall be drowned; my cellars
are four feet under water, the Thames gives itself Rhone airs, and the meadows are more flooded
than when you first saw this place and thought it so dreary.  We seem to have taken out our
earthquake in rain: since the third week in June, there have not been five days together of
dry weather.  They tell us that at Colnbrook and Stains they are forced to live in the first
floor.  Mr. Chute is at the Vine, but I don't expect to hear from him: no post but a dove can
get from thence.  Every post brings new earthquakes; they have felt them in France, Sweden,
and Germany: what a convulsion there has been in nature! Sir Isaac Newton, somewhere in his
works, has this beautiful expression, "The globe will want manum emendatricem."

I have been here this week with only Mr. Muntz; from whence you may conclude I have been employed--Memoirs
thrive apace. He seems to wonder (for he has not a little of your indolence, I am not surprised
you took to him) that I am continually occupied every minute of the day, reading, writing,
forming plans: in short, you know me. He is an inoffensive, good creature, but had rather ponder
over a foreign gazette than a pallet.

I expect to find George Montagu in town to-morrow: his brother has at last got a regiment.
Not content with having deserved it, before he got it, by distinguished bravery and indefatigable
duty, he persists in meriting it still.  He immediately, unasked, gave the chaplainship (which
others always sell advantageously) to his brother's parson at Greatworth.  I am almost afraid
it will make my commendation of this really handsome action look interested, when I add, that
he has obliged me in the same way by making Mr. Mann his clothier, before I had time to apply
for it.  Adieu! I find no news in town.

302 Letter 169 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(652) Arlington Street, Jan. 22, 1756.

As my Lady Ailesbury is so taken up with turnpike-hills, Popish recusants, and Irish politics,
and you are the only idle person in the family (for Missy I find is engaged too), I must return
to correspond with you.  But my letters will not be quite so lively as they have been: the
Opposition, like schoolboys, don't know how to settle to their books again after the holidays.
We have not had a division: nay, not a debate.  Those that like it, are amusing themselves
with the Appleby election.  Now and then we draggle on a little militia.  The recess has not
produced even a pamphlet.  In short, there are none but great outlines of politics: a memorial
in French Billingsgate has been transmitted hither which has been answered very laconically.
More agreeable is the guarantee signed with Prussia: M. Michel(653) is as fashionable as ever
General Wall was.  The Duke of Cumberland has kept his bed with a sore leg, but is better.
Oh! I forgot, Sir Harry Erskine is dismissed from the army, and if you will suffer so low a
pun, as upon his face, is a rubric martyr for his country: bad as it Is, this is the best bon-mot
I have to send you: Ireland, which one did not suspect, is become the staple of wit, and, I
find, coins bons-mots for our greatest men.  I might not send you Mr. Fox's repartee, for I
never heard it, nor has any body here: as you have, pray send it me. Charles Townshend t'other
night hearing somebody say, that my Lady Falmouth, who had a great many diamonds on, had a
Very fine stomach, replied, "By God! my lord has a better." You will be entertained with the
riot Charles makes in the sober house of Argyle: t'other night, on the Duchess's bawling to
my Lady Suffolk,(654) he in the very same tone cried out, "Large stewing Oysters!"  When he
takes such liberties with his new parent, you may judge how little decency he observes with
his wife: last week at dinner at Lord Strafford's, on my Lady Dalkeith's mentioning some dish
that she loved, he replied before all the servants, "Yes, my Lady Dalkeith, you love it better
than any thing but one!"

We were to have had a masquerade to-night, but the Bishops, who you know have always persisted
in God's hating dominos, have made an earthquake point of it, and postponed it till after the fast.

Your brother has got a sixth infanta; at the christening night, Mr. Trail had got through two
prayers before any body found out that the child was not brought down stairs.  You see pauvret`e
how little I have to say.  Do accept the enclosed World(655) in part of payment for the remainder
of a letter. I must conclude with telling you, that though I know her but little, I admire
my Lady Kildare as much as you do.  She has writ volumes to Lady Caroline Fox in praise of
you and your Countess: you are a good soul! I can't say so much for lady Ailesbury.  As to
Missy, I am afraid I must resign my claim: I never was very proper to contest with an Hibernian
hero; and I don't know how, but I think my merit does not improve.  Adieu!

(652) Now first printed.

(653) The Prussian charg`e d'affaires.

(654) The Countess of Suffolk was very deaf.-E.

(655) No.160. On attacks upon Licentiousness.--Story of Sir Eustace Drawbridge-court; written
by Walpole.

303 Letter 170 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Arlington Street, Jan. 24, 1756.

Oh sir, I shall take care how I ever ask favours of you again! It was with great reluctance
that I brought myself to ask this: you took no notice of my request; and I flattered myself
that I was punished for having applied to you so much against my inclination.  Just as I grew
confirmed in the pride of being mortified, I hear that you have outgone my application, and
in the kindest manner in the world have given the young man a pair of colours.  It would have
been unpleasant enough to be refused; but to obtain more than one asked is the most provoking
thing in the world! I was prepared to be very grateful if you had done just what I desired;
but I declare I have no thanks ready for a work of supererogation.  If there ever was a spirit
that went to heaven for mere gratitude, which I am persuaded is a much more uncommon qualification
than martyrdom, I must draw upon his hoard of merit to acquit myself.  You will at least get
thus much by this charming manner of obliging me: I look upon myself as double obliged; and
when it cost me so much to ask one favour, and I find myself in debt for two, I shall scarce
run in tick for a third.

What adds to my vexation is, that I wrote to you but the night before last.  Unless I could
return your kindness with equal grace, it would be not very decent to imitate you by beginning
to take no notice of it; and therefore you must away with this letter upon the back of the former.

We had yesterday some history in the House - Beckford produced an accusation in form against
Admiral Knowles on his way to an impeachment.  Governor Verres was a puny culprit in comparison!
Jamaica indeed has not quite so many costly temples and ivory statues, etc. as Sicily had:
but what Knowles could not or had not a propensity to commit in rapine and petty larceny, he
has made up in tyranny.  The papers are granted, and we are all going to turn jurymen.  The
rest of the day was spent in a kind of avoirdupois war.  Your friend Sir George Lyttelton opened
the budget; well enough in general, but was strangely bewildered in the figures; he stumbled
over millions, and dwelt pompously upon farthings. Pitt attacked him pretty warmly on mortgaging
the sinking fund; Sir George kept up his spirit, and returned the attack on his eloquence:
it was entertaining enough, but ended in high compliments; and the division was 231 to 5(;.

Your friend Lady Petersham, not to let the town quite lapse into politics, has entertained
it with a new scene.  She was t'other night at the play with her court; viz. Miss Ashe, Lord
Barnard, M. St. Simon, and her favourite footman Richard, whom, under pretence of keeping places,
she always keeps in her box the whole time to see the play at his ease.  Mr. Stanley, Colonel
Vernon, and Mr. Vaughan arrived at the very end of the farce, and could find no room, but a
row and a half in Lady Caroline's box.  Richard denied them entrance very impertinently.  Mr.
Stanley took him by the hair of his head, dragged him into the passage, and thrashed him. 
The heroine was outrageous--the heroes not at all so.(656)  She sent Richard to Fielding for
a warrant.  He would not grant it--and so it ended--And so must I, for here is company.  Adieu!

My letter would have been much cleverer, but George Montagu has been chattering by me the whole
time, and insists on my making you his compliments.

(656) Lady Hervey, in a letter of the 23d of March, thus alludes to this story:--"This is the
time of year you used to come to town.  Come and hear a little what is going forward: you will
be alarmed with invasions which are never intended; you will hear of ladies of quality who
uphold footmen insulting gentlemen; nay, you will hear of ladies who steal not only hearts,
but gold boxes."-E.

    304 Letter 171
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Jan. 25, 1756.

I am troubled to think what anxiety you have undergone! yet your brother Gal. assures me that
he has never missed writing one week since he began to be ill.  Indeed, had I in the least
foreseen that his disorder would have lasted a quarter of the time it has, I should have given
you an account of it; but the distance between us is so great, that I could not endure to make
you begin to be uneasy, when, in all probability, the cause would be removed before my letter
reached You.  This tenderness for you has deceived me: your brother, as his complaint is of
the asthmatic kind, has continued all the time at Richmond.  Our attendance in Parliament has
been so unrelaxed, the weather has been so bad, and the roads so impracticable by astonishing
and continued deluges of rain, that, as I heard from him constantly three or four times a week,
and saw your brother James, who went to him every week, I went to see him but twice; and the
last time, about a fortnight ago, I thought him extremely mended: he wrote me two very comfortable
notes this week of his mending, and this morning Mr. Chute and I went to see him, and to scold
him for not having writ oftener to you, which he protests he has done constantly.  I cannot
flatter you, my dear child, as much as to say I think him mended; his shortness of breath continues
to be very uneasy to him, and his long confinement has wasted him a good deal. I fear his case
is more consumptive than asthmatic; he begins a course of quicksilver to-morrow for the obstruction
in his breast.  I shall go out to him again the day after to-morrow, and pray as fervently
as you yourself do, my dear Sir, for his recovery.  You have not more obligations to him, nor
adore him more than I do.  As my tenderness and friendship is so strong for you both, you may
depend on hearing from me constantly; but a declining constitution, you know, will not admit
of a very rapid recovery.  Though he is fallen away, he looks well in the face, and his eyes
are very lively: the weather is very warm, he wants no advice, and I assure YOU no solicitude
for his health; no man ever was so beloved, and so deservingly! Besides Dr. Baker, the physician
of Richmond, who is so much esteemed, he has consulted Dr. Pringle, who is in the first repute,
and who is strongly for the quicksilver.  I enter Into these particulars, because, when one
is anxious, one loves to know the most minute. Nothing is capable of making me so happy, as
being able soon to send you a better account.

Our politics wear a serener face than they have done of late: you will have heard that our
nephew of Prussia-I was going to say, has asked blessing--begging our dignity's pardon, I fear
he has given blessing! In short, he guarantees the empire with us from all foreign troops.
It is pleasant to think, that at least we shall be to fight for ourselves.  Fight we must,
France says: but when she said so last, she knew nothing of our cordiality with the court of
Berlin.  Monsieur Rouill`e very lately wrote to Mr. Fox, by way of Monsieur Bonac in Holland,
to say his master ordered the accompanying M`emoire to be transmitted to his Britannic Majesty
in person; it is addressed to nobody, but after professing great disposition to peace, and
complaining in harsh terms of our brigandages and pirateries, it says, that if we will restore
their ships, goods, etc. they shall then be ready to treat.  We have returned a squab answer,
retorting the infraction of treaties, professing a desire of peace too, but declare we cannot
determine upon restitution comme pr`eliminaire.  If we do not, the M`emoire says, they shall
look upon it comme declaration de guerre la plus authentique.  Yet, in my own opinion, they
will not declare it; especially since the King of Prussia has been Russianed out of their alliance.
They will probably attempt some stroke; I think not succeed in it, and then lie by for an opportunity
when they shall be stronger.  They can only go to Holland, attempt these islands, or some great
coup in America.(657)  Holland they may swallow when they will; yet, why should they, when
we don't attempt to hinder them? and it would be madness if -we did.  For coming hither, our
fleet is superior say, but equal: our army and preparations greater than ever--if an invasion
were still easy, should we be yet to conquer, when we have been so long much more exposed?
In America we arc much stronger than they, and have still more chances of preventing their
performing any action of consequence.

The opposition is nibbling, but is not popular, nor have Yet got hold of any clue of consequence.
There is not the vivacity that broke forth before the holidays.

I condole with you for Madame Antinori,(658) and Madame Grifoni; but I know, my dear child,
how much too seriously your mind will be occupied about your dear brother, to think that romantic
grief will any longer disquiet you.  Pray Heaven! I may send you better and better news.  Adieu!

P. S. I forgot to thank you for your history of the war with Lucca in your last but one.

(657) "A formal declaration of war from France," writes Lord Chesterfield to Mr. Dayrolles
on the 23d, "seems to be the natural consequence of Rouill`e's memorial.  I am not so fond
of war as I find many people are.  Mark the end on 't.  Our treaty lately concluded with Russia
is a fortunate event, and secures the peace of the empire; and is it possible that France can
invade the Low Countries, which are the dominions of the Empress Queen, only because Admiral
Boscawen has taken two of their ships in America?  I see but two places where France can annoy
us; in America, by slipping over in single ships a considerable number of troops, and next
by keeping us in a state of fear and expense at home, with the threats and appearances of an
intended invasion."-E.

(658) A Florentine lady, whom Sir Horace admired, and who was just dead: she was sister of
Madame Grifoni.

306 Letter 172 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 5, 1756.

I think I can give you a little better account of your brother, who is so dear to both of us;
I put myself on a foot with you, for nothing can love him better than I do. I have been a week
at Strawberry Hill. in order to watch and see him every day.  The Duke's physician, Dr. Pringle,
who now attends him, has certainly relieved him much: his cough is in a manner gone, his fever
much abated, his breath better.  His strength is not yet increased; and his stitches, which
they impute to wind, are not relieved.  But both his physicians swear that his lungs are not
touched.  His worst symptom is what they cannot, but I must and will remove: in short, his
wife is killing him, I can scarce say slowly.  Her temper is beyond imagination, her avarice
monstrous, her madness about what she calls cleanliness, to a degree of distraction; if I had
not first, and then made your brother Ned interpose in form, she would once or twice a week
have the very closet washed in which your brother sleeps after dinner.  It is certainly very
impertinent to interfere in so delicate a case, but your brother's life makes me blind to every
consideration: in short, we have made Dr. Pringle declare that the moment the weather is a
little warmer, and he can be moved, change of air is absolutely necessary, and I am to take
him to Strawberry Hill, where you may imagine he will neither be teased nor neglected: the
physicians are strong for his going abroad, but I find that it will be a very difficult point
to carry even with himself.  His affairs are so extensive, that as yet he will not hear of
leaving them.  Then the exclusion of correspondence by the war with France would be another
great objection with him to going thither; and to send him to Naples by sea, if we could persuade
him would hardly be advisable in the heat of such hostilities.  I think by this account you
will judge perfectly of your brother's situation: you may depend upon it, it is not desperate,
and yet it is what makes me very unhappy.  Dr. Pringle says, that in his life he never knew
a person for whom so many people were concerned.  I go to him again to-morrow.

The war is reckoned inevitable, nay begun, though France does not proceed to a formal declaration,
but contents herself with Monsieur Rouill`e's conditional declaration.  All intercourse is
stopped.  We, who two months ago were in terrors about a war on the continent, are now more
frightened about having it at home.  Hessians and Dutch are said to be, and, I believe, are
sent for.  I have known the time when we were much less prepared and much less alarmed.  Lord
Ravensworth moved yesterday to send par pr`eference for Hanoverians, but nobody seconded him.
The opposition cavil, but are not strong enough to be said to oppose.  This is exactly our
situation.

I must beg, my dear sir, that you will do a little for my sake, what I know and hear you have
already done from natural goodness.  Mr. Dick, the consul at Leghorn, is particularly attached
to my old and great friend Lady Harry Beauclerc, whom you have often heard me mention; she
was Miss Lovelace: it will please me vastly if you will throw in a few civilities more at my
request.

Adieu! Pray for your brother: I need not say talk him over and over with Dr. Cocchl, and hope
the best of the war.

307 Letter 173 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Arlington Street, Feb. 12, 1756.

I will not write to my Lady Ailesbury to-night, nor pretend to answer the prettiest letter
in the world, when I am out of spirits.  I am very unhappy about poor Mr. Mann, who I fear
is in a deep consumption: the doctors do not give him over, and the symptoms are certainly
a little mended this week; but you know how fallacious that distemper is, and how unwise it
would be to trust to it! As he is at Richmond, I pass a great deal of my time out of town to
be near him, and so may have missed some news; but I will tell you all I know.

The House of Commons is dwindled into a very dialogue between Pitt and Fox-one even begins
to want Admiral Vernon again for variety.  Sometimes it is a little piquant; in which though
Pitt has attacked, Fox has generally had the better.  These three or four last days we have
been solely upon the Pennsylvanian regiment, bickering, and but once dividing, 165 to 57. 
We are got but past the first reading yet.  We want the French to put a little vivacity into
us.  The Duke of Newcastle has expected them every hour: he was terribly alarmed t'other night;
on his table he found a mysterious card with only these words, "Charles is very well, and is
expected in England every day."  It was plainly some secret friend that advertised him of the
pretender's approaching arrival.  He called up all the servants, ransacked the whole house
to know who had been in his dressing-room:-at last it came out to be an answer from the Duchess
of Queensberry to the Duchess of Newcastle about Lord Charles Douglas.  Don't it put you in
mind of my Lord Treasurer Portland in Clarendon, "Remember Caesar"!

The French have promised letters of noblesse to whoever fits out even a little privateer. 
I could not help a melancholy smile when my Lady Ailesbury talked of coming over soon.  I fear
major-general you will scarce be permitted to return to your plough at Park-place, when we
grudge every man that is left at the plough.  Between the French and the earthquakes, you have
no notion how good we are grown; nobody makes a suit of clothes now but of sackcloth turned
up with ashes.  The fast was kept so devoutly, that Dick Edgecumbe, finding a very lean hazard
at White's, said with a sigh, "Lord, how the times are degenerated!  Formerly a fast would
have brought every body hither; now it keeps every body away!" A few nights before, two men
walking up the Strand, one said to t'other, "Look how red the sky is!  Well, thank God! there
is to be no masquerade!"

My Lord Ashburnham(659) does not keep a fast; he is going to marry one of the plump Crawleys:--they
call him the noble lord upon the woolsack.

The Duchess of Norfolk has opened her new house: all the earth was there last Tuesday.  You
would have thought there had been a comet, every body was gaping in the air and treading on
one another's toes.  In short, you never saw such a scene of magnificence and taste.  The tapestry,
the embroidered bed, the illumination, the glasses, the lightness and novelty of the ornaments,
and the ceilings, are delightful.  She gives three Tuesdays, would you be at one!  Somebody
asked my Lord Rockingham afterwards at White's, what was there'! He said, , "Oh! there was
all the company afraid of the Duchess, and the Duke afraid of all the company."--It was not
a bad picture.

My Lady Ailesbury flatters me extremely about my "World," but it has brought me into a peck
of troubles.  In short, the good-natured town have been pleased to lend me a meaning, and call
my Lord Bute Sir Eustace.  I need not say how ill the story tallies to what they apply it;
but I do vow to you, that so far from once entering into my imagination, my only apprehension
was that I should be suspected of flattery for the compliment to the Princess in a former part.
It is the more cruel, because you know it is just the thing in the world on which one must
not defend one's self.  If I might, I can prove that the paper was writ last Easter, long before
this history was ever mentioned, and flung by, because I did not like it: I mentioned it one
night to my Lady Hervey, which was the occasion of its being printed.

I beg you will tell my Lady Ailesbury, that I am sorry she could not discover any wit in Mrs.
Hussey's making a sept-leva.  I know I never was so vain of any wit in my life as winning a
thousand leva and two five hundred levas.

You would laugh if you saw in the midst of what trumpery I am writing.  Two porters have just
brought home my purchases from Mrs. Kennon the midwife's sale: Brobdignag combs, old broken
pots, pans, and pipkins, a lantern of scraped oyster-shells, scimitars, Turkish pipes, Chinese
baskets, etc. etc.  My servants think my head is turned: I hope not: it is all to be called
the personal estate and moveables of my great-great-grandmother, and to be reposited at Strawberry.
I believe you think my letter as strange a miscellany as my purchases.

P. S. I forgot, that I was outbid for Oliver Cromwell's nightcap.

(659) John, second Earl of Ashburnham.  On the 28th of June he married Elizabeth, daughter
and coheiress of Ambrose Crawley, Esq.-E.

309 Letter 174 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 23, 1756.

I can tell you with as much truth as pleasure that your brother assuredly mends, and that his
physician, Dr. Pringle, who is the Duke's has told his Royal Highness, who expresses great
concern, that he now will live.  He goes out to take the air every day, that is not very bad:
Mr. Chute and I went to see him yesterday, and saw a real and satisfactory alteration.  I don't
say this to flatter you; on the contrary, I must bid you, my dear child, not to be too sanguine,
for Dr.  Cocchi will tell you that there is nothing more fallacious than a consumptive case;
don't mistake me, it is not a consumption, though it is a consumptive disposition.  His spirits
are evidently better.

You will have heard, before you receive this, that the King of France and Madame Pompadour
are gone into devotion.  Some say, that D'Argenson, finding how much her inclination for peace
with us fell in with the Monarch's humanity, (and winch indeed is the only rational account
one can give of their inactivity,) employed the Cardinal de la Rochefoucault and the Confessor
to threaten the most Christian King with an earthquake if he did not communicate at Easter;
and that his Majesty accordingly made over his mistress to his wife, by appointing the former
dame du palais: others, who refine more, pretend that Madame Pompadour, perceiving how much
the King's disposition veered to devotion, artfully took the turn of humouring it, desired
to be only his soul's concubine, and actually sent to ask pardon of her husband, and to offer
to return to him, from which he begged to be excused-the point in dispute is whether she has
or has not left off rouge.  In our present hostile state we cannot arrive at any certainty
on this important question; though our fate seems to depend on it!

We have had nothing in Parliament but most tedious and long debates on a West Indian regiment,
to be partly composed of Swiss and Germans settled in Pennsylvania, with some Dutch officers.
The opposition neither increase in numbers or eloquence; the want of the former seems to have
damped the fire of the latter.  the reigning fashion is expectation of an invasion; I can't
say I am fashionable; nor do I expect the earthquake, though they say it is landed at Dover.

The most curious history that I have to tell you, is a malicious, pretty successful, and yet
most clumsy Plot executed by the papists, in which number you will not be surprised at my including
some Protestant divines, against the famous Bower,(660) author of the History of the Popes.
Rumours were spread of his being discovered in correspondence with the Jesuits; some even said
the correspondence was treasonable, and that he was actually in the hands of a messenger. 
I went to Sir George Lyttelton, his great friend, to learn the truth; he told me the story:
that Sir Harry Bedingfield, whom I know for a most bigoted Papist in Norfolk, pretended to
have six letters from Bower (signed A. B.) in his hands, addressed to one Father Sheldon, a
Jesuit, under another name, in which A. B. affected great contrition and desires of reconciliation
to that church, lamenting his living in fornication with a woman, by whom he had a child, and
from whom he had got fifteen hundred pounds, which he had put into Sheldon's hands, and which
he affirmed he must have again if he broke off the commerce, for that the woman insisted on
having either him or her money; and offering all manner of submission to holy church, and to
be sent wherever she should please; for non mea voluntas sed tua fiat:- -the last letter grieved
at not being able to get his money, and to be forced to continue in sin, and concluded with
telling the Jesuit that something would happen soon which would put an end to their correspondence-this
is supposed to allude to his history.  The similitude of hands is very great-but you know how
little that can weigh! I know that Mr. Conway and my Lady Ailesbury write so alike, that I
never receive a letter from either of them that I am not forced to look at the name to see
from which it comes; the only difference is that she writes legibly, and he does not.  These
letters were shown about privately, and with injunctions of secrecy: it seems Hooke, the Roman
historian, a convert to Popery, and who governs my Lord Bath and that family, is deep in this
plot.  At last it got to the ears of Dr. Birch, a zealous but simple Than, and of Millar the
bookseller, angry at Bower for not being his printer--they trumpeted the story all over the
town.  Lord Pultney was One who told it me, and added, "a Popish gentleman and an English clergyman
are upon the scent;" he told me Sir H. Bedingfield's name, but Would not the clergyman's. 
I replied, then your lordship must give me leave to say, as I don't know his name, that I suppose
our doctor is as angry as Sir Harry at Bower for having written against the church of Rome.
Sir G. Lyttelton went to Sir Harry, and demanded to see the letters, and asked for copies,
which were promised.  He soon observed twenty falsehoods and inconsistencies, particulary the
mention of a patent for a place, which Sir George obtained for him, but never thought of asking
till a year and a half after the date of this letter; to say nothing of the inconsistence of
his taking a place as a Protestant, at the same time he was offering to go whithersoever the
Jesuits would send him; and the still more glaring improbability of his risking himself again
under their power! Sir George desired the woman might be produced--Sir Harry shuffled, and
at last said he believed it was a lie of Bower.  When he was beaten out of every point, he
said, he Would put it on this single fact, "Ask Mr. Bower if he was not reconciled to the church
of Rome in the year '44."  The whole foundation proves to be this: Bower, who is a very child
in worldly matters, was weak enough, for good interest, to put fifteen hundred pounds into
the hands of one Brown, a Jesuit here in London, and from that correspondence they have forged
his hand; and finding the minds of men alarmed and foolish about the invasion and the earthquake,
they thought the train would take like wildfire.  I told Bower, that though this trusting a
Jesuit did great honour to his simplicity, it Certainly did none to his judgment.  Sir George
begged I would advise them what to do-they were afraid to enter into a controversy, which Hooke
might manage.  I told him at once that their best way would be to advertise a great reward
for discovery of the forgery, and to communicate their intention to Sir Harry bedington.  Sir
George was pleased with the thought-and indeed it succeeded beyond expectation.  Sir Harry
sent word that he approved the investigation of truth, be the persons concerned of what profession
they would; that he was obliged to go out of town next day for his health, but hoped at his
return Sir George would give him leave to cultivate an acquaintance which this little affair
had renewed.  Sir George answered with great propriety and spirit, that he should be very proud
of his acquaintance, but must beg leave to differ with him in calling a little affair what
tended to murder a man's character, but he was glad to see that it was the best way that Rome
had of answering Mr. Bower's book.  You see, Sir Harry is forced to let the forgery rest on
himself, rather than put a chancellor of the exchequer upon the scent after priests! He has
even hesitated Upon giving Bower copies of the letters.

Since I began my letter, we hear that France is determined to try a numerous invasion in several
places in England and Ireland, coute qui coute, and knowing how difficult it is.  We are well-prepared
and strong; they have given us time.  If it were easy to invade us, we should not have waited
for an attack till the year 1756.  I hope to give you a good account both of England and your
brother.  Adieu!

(660) Bower was a man of very bad character, and it is now generally believed that he intended
to cheat the Jesuits out of a sum of money.-D.

(661) Dr. Douglas, afterwards Bishop of Salisbury, an intimate friend of Lord Bath.  He had
detected sundry errors in Bower's Lives of the Popes.-D.

312 Letter 175 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Arlington Street, March 4, 1756.

Dear Harry, I have received so kind and so long a letter from you, and so kind too because
so long, that I feel I shall remain much in your debt, at least for length.  I won't allow
that I am in your debt for warmth of friendship.  I have nothing worth telling you: we are
hitherto conquered only in threat: for my part.  I have so little expectation of an invasion,
that I have not buried a single enamel, nor bought a pane of painted glass the less; of the
two panics in fashion, the French and the earthquake, I have not even made my option yet. 
The opposition get ground as little as either: Mr. Pitt talks by Shrewsbury clock, and is grown
almost as little heard as that is at Westminster.  We have had full eight days on the Pennsylvania
regiment.  The young Hamilton has spoken and shone again; but nothing is luminous compared
with Charles Townshend:--he drops down dead in a fit, has a resurrection, thunders in the Capitol,
confounds the treasury-bench, laughs at his own party, is laid up the next day, and overwhelms
the Duchess and the good women that go to nurse him!  His brother's Militia-bill(662) does
not come on till next week: in the mean time, he adorns the shutters, walls and napkins of
every tavern in Pall Mall with caricatures of the Duke(663) and Sir George Lyttelton, the Duke
of Newcastle and Mr. Fox.  Your friend Legge has distinguished himself exceedingly on the supplies
and taxes, and retains all the dignity of chancellor of the exchequer.  I think I never heard
so complete a scene of ignorance as yesterday on the new duties!  Except Legge, you would not
have thought there was a man in the House had learned troy-weight; Murray quibbled--at Hume
Campbell the House groaned! Pitt and Fox were lamentable; poor Sir George never knew prices
from duties, nor drawbacks from premiums!  The three taxes proposed were on plate, on bricks
and tiles, on cards and dice.  The earthquake has made us so good, that the ministry might
have burned the latter in Smithfield if they had pleased.  The bricks they were forced to give
up, and consented graciously, to accept 70,000 pounds on alehouses, instead of 30,000 pounds
on bricks.  They had nearly been forced to extend the duty on plate beyond 10 pounds carrying
the restriction by a majority of only two.

An embargo is laid on the shipping, to get sailors.  The young court lords were going to raise
troops of light horse, but my Lord Gower (I suppose by direction of the Duke) proposed to the
King that they should rather employ their personal interest to recruit the army; which scheme
takes place, and, as George Townshend said in the House, they are all turning recruiting sergeants.
But notwithstanding we so much expect a storm from France, I am told that in France they think
much more of their own internal storms than of us.  Madame Pompadour wears devotion, whether
forced or artful is not certain: the disputes between the King and the parliament run very
high, and the Duke of Orleans and the Prince of Conti have set themselves -,it the head of
the latter.  Old Nugent came fuddled to the Opera last week, and jostled an ancient Lord Irwin,
and then called him fool for being in his way: they were going to fight; but my Lord Talbot,
professing that he did not care if they were both hanged, advised them to go back and not expose
themselves.  You will stare perhaps at my calling Nugent old: it is not merely to distinguish
him from his son; but he is such a champion and such a lover, that it is impossible not to
laugh at him as if he was a Methuselah! He is en affaire regime with the young Lady Essex.
At a supper there a few nights ago of two-and-twenty people, they were talking of his going
to Cashiobury to direct some alterations: Mrs. Nugent in the softest infantine voice called
out, "My Lady Essex, don't let him do any thing out of doors; but you will find him delightful
within!"

I think I have nothing else to tell you but a bon-mot or two; with that sort of news I think
I take care to supply you duly. I send you constantly the best that London affords.  Dick Edgecumbe
has said that his last child was born on All-gamesters'-day; Twelfth-night.  This chapter shall
conclude with an epigram; the thought was George Selwyn's, who, you know, serves all the epigram-makers
in town with wit.  It is on Miss Chudleigh crying in the drawing-room on the death of her mother:-

"What filial piety! what mournful grace, For a lost parent, sits on Chudleigh's face Fair virgin,
weep no more, your anguish smother! You in this town can never want a mother."

I have told poor Mr. Mann how kind you are to him: indeed I have been exceedingly frightened
and troubled for him, and thought him in immediate danger.  He is certainly much mended, though
I still fear a consumption for him; he has not been able to move from Richmond this whole winter:
I never fail to visit him twice or thrice a week.  I heartily pity the fatigue and dullness
of your life; nor can I flatter you with pretending to believe it will end soon: I hope you
will not be forced to gain as much reputation in the camp as you have in the cabinet!--You
see I must finish.

(662) On the 12th of March, Mr. George Townshend brought in a bill for better ordering the
militia.  It passed the House of Commons on the 10th of May.-E.

(663) The Duke of Cumberlan(l.  Mr. George Townshend was very skilful at drawing caricatures,
and published a set of twelve; to which he affixed the name of Austin.-E.

314 Letter 176 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 18, 1756.

I am not surprised to find by your letters of 21st and 28th of February how much you have been
alarmed for your brother.  You have not felt more than I have: but I have the satisfaction
of seeing him mend, while you undergo the terrible suspense of waiting for posts.  He has been
pulled much back by the operation of his quicksilver, which flung him into a severe looseness
and kind of salivation: it weakened him much and kept him from the air, but it brought off
a great load of black stuff from his stomach, and his spirits are exceedingly better. He is
to go to the Bath as soon as he is able.  Would to heaven I could prevail for his going to
Italy, but he will not listen to it.  You may be confident that I do not stop at mere decency
in checking his domestic torment--it is terrible; but when I saw him in so much danger, I kept
no measures-I went lengths that would be inexcusable in any other situation.  No description
can paint the madness, (and when I call it madness, I know I flatter) the preposterous unreasonableness
and infernal temper of that little white fiend! His temper, which is equal to yours, bears
him up under it.  I am with him two or three mornings every week, and think I shall yet preserve
him for you.  The physicians are positive that his lungs are not touched.

We proceed fiercely in armaments-yet in my own opinion, and I believe the ministry think so
too, the great danger is for Port Mahon.  Admiral Bing sails directly for the Mediterranean.
The Brest fleet that slipped away, is thought on its progress to Nova Scotia.  The Dutch have
excused sending us their troops on the imminence of their own danger.  The parliamentary campaign
is almost over; you know I persist in believing that we shall not have any other here.

Thank you much for your kindness to Mr. Dick; I will repay you on your brother, though I don't
know how to place him to any account but my own.  If I could be more anxious than I am about
him, it would be, my dear child, on what you say to me on yourself; but be comforted, all will
yet be well.

Mr. Chute's picture is not yet arrived; when it comes, he shall thank you himself.  I must
now give you a new commission, and for no less a minister than the chancellor of the exchequer.
Sir George Lyttelton desires that you will send him for his hall the jesses of the Venus, the
dancing Faun, the Apollo Medicis, (I think there is a cast of it,) the Mercury, and some other
female statue, at your choice: he desires besides three pair of Volterra vases, of the size
to place on tables, and different patterns.  consign the whole to me, and draw the bill of
lading on me.

I have nothing more to tell you but a naivet`e of my Lady Coventry; the King asked her if she
was not sorry that there are no masquerades this year-(for you must know we have sacrificed
them to the idol earthquake,)-she said, no, she was tired of them; she was surfeited with most
sights; there was but one left that she wanted to see--and that was a coronation! The old man
told it himself at supper to his family with a great deal of good humour.  Adieu! my dear child.

315 Letter 177 315 Letter 177 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(664) Arlington Street, March 25, 1756.

In spite of being sorry, as I certainly ought to be, when your letters are short, I feel quite
glad; I rejoice that I am not much in your debt, when I have not wherewithal to pay.  Nothing
happens worth telling you: we have had some long days in the House, but unentertaining; Mr.
Pitt has got the gout in his oratory, I mean in his head, and does not come out: we are sunk
quite into argument--but you know, when any thing is as it should be, it is not worth talking
of.  The plate-tax has made some noise; the ministry carried one question on it but by nine.
The Duke of Newcastle, who reserves all his heroism for the war, grew frightened, and would
have given up the tax; but Mr. Fox bolstered up his courage and mustered their forces, and
by that and softening the tax till it was scarce worth retaining, they carried the next question
by an hundred.  The day before yesterday the King notified the invasion to both Houses, and
his having sent for Hessians.  There were some dislikes expressed to the latter; but, in general,
fear preponderated so much that the cry was for Hanoverians too. Lord George Sackville, in
a very artful speech, a little maliciously even proposed them and noblemen's regiments: which
the Duke had rejected.  Lord Ravensworth, in the other House, moved in form for Hanoverians;
the Duke of Newcastle desired a few days to consider it, and they are to go upon it in the
Lords to-morrow.  The militia, which had been dropped for next year, is sprouted up again out
of all this, and comes on to-day.  But we should not be English, if we did not become still
more intent on a very trifle: we are.  A new road through Paddington(665) has been proposed
to avoid the stones: the Duke of Bedford, who is never 'In town in summer, objects to the dust
it will make behind Bedford House, and to some buildings proposed, though, if he was in town,
he is too short-sighted to see the prospect.  The Duke of Grafton heads the other side: this
is carried! you can imagine it---you could compose the difference! you, grand corrupter, you
who can bribe pomp and patriotism, virtue and a Speaker,(666) you that have pursued uprightness
even to the last foot of land on the globe, and have disarmed Whiggism almost on the banks
of its own Boyne- -don't you return hither, we shall have you attempt to debauch even Mr. Onslow,
who has preserved his chastity, while all the band of chosen youths, while every Pultney, Pitt,
and Lyttelton have fallen around him.  I could not help laughing at the picture of Malone bribed
out of his virtue and mobbed into it again!

Now I am in a serious strain, I will finish my letter with the only other serious history I
know.  My Lady Lincoln has given a prodigious assembly to show the Exchequer house.(667)  She
sent to the porter to send cards to all she visited: he replied, he could easily do that, for
his lady visited nobody but Lady Jane Scott.  As she has really neglected every body, many
refusals were returned.  The Duchess of Bedford was not invited, and made a little opposition-supper,
which was foolish enough.  As the latter had refused to return my Lady Falmouth's visit, my
Lady Lincoln singled her out, visited and invited her.  The dignity of the assembly was great-
Westminster Hall was illuminated for chairs; the passage from it hung with green baize and
lamps, and matted.  The cloister was the prettiest sight in the world, lighted with lamps and
Volterra vases.  The great apartment is magnificent.  Sir Thomas Robinson the Long, who you
know is always propriety itself, told me how much the house was improved since it was my brother's.
The Duchess of Norfolk gives a great ball next week to the Duke of Cumberland: so you see that
she does not expect the Pretender, at least this fortnight.  Last night, at my Lady Hervey's,
Mrs. Dives was expressing great panic about the French: my Lady Rochford, looking down on her
fan, said with great softness, "I don't know, I don't think the French are a sort of people
that women need be afraid of." Adieu!

(664) Now first published.

(665) The Paddington or New Road, which the Duke of Bedford opposed as making a dust behind
Bedford House, and from some intended buildings being likely to interrupt his prospect.  The
Duke of Grafton warmly espoused the other side of the question.

(666) The Speaker of the Irish House of Commons.

(667) Lord Lincoln was at this time auditor of the exchequer.-E.

316 Letter 178 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, April 16, 1756.

You wrong me very much in thinking I omit writing because I don't hear from you as often as
you have a mind I should: you are kinder to me in that respect than I have reason, considering
your numerous occupations, to expect: the real and whole truth is, that I have had nothing
to tell you; for I could not tire either you or myself with all the details relating to this
foolish road-bill, which has engrossed the whole attention of every body lately.  I have entered
into it less than any body.  What will you say when you are told that proxies have been sent
for to Scotland? that my Lord Harrington has been dragged into the House of Lords from his
coffin, and Lord Arran(668) carried thither to take the oaths, who I believe has not appeared
there since the Revolution?  In short, it has become quite a trial for power: and though the
Dukes of Grafton and Bedford have lent their names and their vehemence, you will guess what
has been the engine behind the curtain.

The French are so obliging as to wait till we have done with these important squabbles: the
House of Commons takes care too not to draw off the attention of the nation.  The Militia-bill
has passed through that solitude, but I hear will be stopped in the House of Lords.  I have
lived lately in a round of great disagreeable suppers, which you know are always called for
my Lady Yarmouth, as if the poor woman loved nothing but cramming: I suppose it will so much
become the etiquette, that in the next reign there will be nothing but suppers for my Lord
Bute. I am now come hither to keep my Newmarket, but the weather is cold and damp: it is uncertain
whether the Duke makes that campaign, or against the French.  As the road-bill extinguished
the violence about the two operas of next year, and they made the invasion forgot, and the
invasion the earthquake, I foresee--and I go almost upon as sure grounds as prophets that take
care to let the event precede the prediction-I foresee that the Hanoverians will swallow up
all: they have already a general named, who ranks before any one of ours; and there are to
be two Hanoverian aide-de-camps!

You will hear by this post of the death of Sir William Lowther, whose vast succession falls
to Sir James, and makes him Croesus: he may hire the Dukes of Bedford and Marlborough for led
captains.  I am sorry for this young man, though I did not know him; but it is hard to be cut
off so young and so rich: old rich men seldom deserve to live, but he did a thousand generous
acts.  You will be diverted with a speech of Lord Shelburne,(669) one of those second-rate
fortunes who have not above five-and-thirty thousand pounds a year.  He says, every body may
attain some one point if they give all their attention to it; for his part, he knows he has
no great capacity, he could not make a figure by his parts; he shall content himself with being
one of the richest men in England! I literally saw him t'other day buying pictures for two-and-twenty
shillings, that I would not hang in my garret, while I, who certainly have not made riches
my sole point of view, was throwing away guineas, and piquing myself for old tombstones against
your father-in-law the General.(670)  I hope Lady Ailesbury will forgive my zeal for Strawberry
against Coombank!  Are you never to see your Strawberry Hill again'? Lord Duncannon flatters
us that we shall see you in May.  If I did not hope it, I would send you the only two new fashionable
pieces; a comic elegy(671) by Richard Owen Cambridge, and a wonderful book by a more wonderful
author, Greville.(672)  It is called "Maxims and Characters:" several of the former are pretty:
all the latter so absurd, that one in particular, which at the beginning you take for the character
of a man, turns out to be the character of a postchaise.

You never tell me now any of Missy's bons-mots.  I hope she has not resided in Ireland till
they are degenerated into bulls? Adieu!

(668) Charles Butler, second son of Thomas, Earl of Ossory, created Earl of Arran in 1693.
At his death, in 1759, his title became extinct.-E.

(669) John, fifth son of Thomas Fitzmaurice, first Earl of Kerry. He inherited, pursuant to
the will of his uncle, Henry Petty, Earl of Shelburne, his lordship's opulent fortune, and
assumed his surname in 1751.  He was created Earl of Shelburne in the kingdom of Ireland; and,
in 1760, was raised to the dignity of a British peer, by the title Of Lord Wycombe.  He died
in 1761.-E.

(670) General John Campbell, who, upon the death of Archibald Duke of Argyle, succeeded to
that title.

(671) An Elegy on an Empty Assembly-room.-E.

(672) Fulke Greville, Esq.  Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, in a letter to her daughter, dated Louvere,
Oct. 9, 1757, says, "We have had many English here.  Mr. Greville, his lady, and her suite
of adorers deserved particular notice: he was so good as to present me with his curious book:
since the days of the Honourable Edward Howard, nothing has been published like it. I told
him the age wanted an Earl of Dorset to celebrate it properly; and he was so well pleased with
that speech, that he visited me every day, to the great comfort of Madame, who was entertained,
meanwhile, with parties of pleasure of another kind, though I fear I lost his esteem at last,
by refusing to correspond with him."-E.

318 Letter 179 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, April 18, 1756.

I wish I could send you accounts of your brother's amendment in proportion to your impatience,
and to my own: he does mend certainly, but it is slowly: he takes the air every day, and they
talk of his riding, though I don't think him strong enough yet to sit a horse; when he has
rid a little he is to go to the Bath.  I wish it much; for though he is at Richmond, there
is no keeping him from doing too much business.  Dr. Cocchi has showed his usual sagacity:
the case is pronounced entirely asthmatic.  As they have acquitted him of a consumption, I
feel easy, though the complaint he has is so uneasy to himself'. You must not be discouraged
by my accounts; for I see your brother so very often, that it is not possible for me to discern
the progress of alteration in him.

YOU Will not believe how little we have thought of the French lately!  We are engaged in a
civil war-not between St. James's and Leicester House, but between the Dukes of Grafton and
Bedford, about a new turnpike-road on the back of the town: as you may imagine, it grows politics;
and if it is not compromised during the recess, the French may march deep into the kingdom
before they become greater politics.

We think them not ready for Minorca, and that we shall be prepared to receive them there. 
The Hessians are expected immediately; and soon after them the Hanoverians; and soon after
them many jealousies and uneasinesses.

These are all the politics I can tell you; and I have as little else to tell you.  Poor Lady
Drumlanrig(673) Whose lord perished so unfortunately about a ear and a half ago, is dead of
a consumption from that shock; and Sir William Lowther, one of the two heirs of old Sir James,
died two days ago of a fever.  He was not above six-and-twenty, master of above twenty thousand
pounds a-year - sixteen of which comes to young Sir James, who was equally rich: think what
a fortune is here assembled-will any Florentine believe this when reduced to sequins or scudi?

I receive such packets of thanks of Lady Harry Beauclerc, transmitted to her from Mr. Dick,
that you must bear to have some of them returned to you.  I know you enough to believe that
you will be still better pleased with new trouble than with my gratitude, therefore I will
immediately flounce into more recommendation; but while I do recommend, I must send a bill
of discount at the same time: in short, I have been pressed to mention a Sir Robert Davers
to you; but as I have never seen him, I will not desire much more than your usual civility
for him; sure he may be content with that! I remember Sir William Maynard,(674) and am cautious.

Since I began this, I receive yours of April 2d, full of uneasiness for your brother's quicksilver
and its effects.  I did not mention it to you, because, though it put him back, his physicians
were persuaded that he would not suffer, and he has not.  As to reasoning with them, my dear
child, it is impossible: I am more ignorant in physic than a child of six years old; if it
were not for reverence for Dr. Cocchi, and out of gratitude to Dr. Pringle, who has been of
such service to your brother, I should say, I am as ignorant as a physician.  I am really so
sensible of the good your brother has received from this doctor, that I myself am arrived so
far towards being ill, that I now know, if I was to be ill, who should be my physician.  The
weather has been so wet and cold that your brother has received very little benefit from it:
he talked to me again this morning of riding but I don't yet think him able; if you had seen
him as I saw him the day I wrote my first letter to you, you would be as happy as I am now:
without that I fear you would be shocked to see how he is emaciated; but his eyes, his spirits,
his attention, give me great hopes, though I absolutely think it a tedious astigmatic case.
Adieu! my dear child; be in better spirits, and don't expect either sudden amendment or worse
change.

(673) Daughter of the Earl of Hopton.-E.

(674) Whom Mr. Walpole recommended to Sir H. Mann, to whom Sir William, who was a Jacobite,
behaved very impertinently.

319 Letter 180 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, April 20, 1756.

Your steward called on me just as I was going to keep my Newmarket at Strawberry Hill; he promised
to leave me the direction to the statuary, but as I have not heard from him, I wish you would
send it me

The cold and the wet have driven me back to London, empty London! where we are more afraid
of the deluge than of the invasion.  The French are said to be sailed for Minorca, which I
hold to be a good omen of their not coming hither; for if they took England, Port Mahon, I
should think, would scarcely hold out.

Pray don't die, like a country body, because it is a fashion for gentlefolks to die in London;
it li's the bon ton now to die; one can't show one's face without being a death's-head. Mrs.
Bethel and I are come strangely into fashion; but true critics in mode object to our having
underjaws, and maintain that we are not dead comme il faut.  The young Lady Exeter(675) died
almost suddenly, and has handsomely confirmed her father's will, by leaving her money to her
lord only for his life, and then to Thomas Townshend.(676)  Sir William Lowther has made a
charming will, and been as generous at his death as he was in his short life; he has left thirteen
legacies of five thousand pounds each to friends; of which you know by sight, Reynolds,(677)
Mrs. Brudenel's son, (678) and young Turner.  He has given seventeen hundred pounds a-year;
that is, I suppose, seventeen hundred Pounds, to old Mrs. Lowther.(679)  What an odd circumstance!
a woman passing an hundred years to receive a legacy from a man of twenty-seven; after her
it goes to Lord George Cavendish.  Six hundred pounds per year he gives to another Mrs. Lowther,
to be divided afterwards between Lord Frederick and Lord John.  Lord Charles, his uncle, is
residuary legatee.  But what do you think of young Mr. James Lowther, who not of age becomes
master of one or two and forty thousand pounds a-year? England will become a heptarchy, the
property of six or seven people! The Duke of Bedford is fallen to be not above the fourth rich
man in the island.

Poor Lord Digby(680) is like to escape happily at last, after being cut for the stone, and
bearing the preparation and execution with such heroism, that waking with the noise of the
surgeons, he asked if that was to be the day?  "Yes."--"How soon will they be ready?"--"Not
for some time."--"Then let me sleep till they are?"  He was cut by a new instrument of Hawkins,
which reduces an age of torture to but one minute.

The Duke had appeared in form on the causeway in Hyde Park with my lady Coventry: it is the
new office, where all lovers are entered.  How happy she must be with Billy and Bully!(681)
I hope she will not mistake, and call the former by the nickname of the latter.  At a great
supper t'other night at Lord Hertford's, if she was not the best-humoured creature in the world,
I should have made her angry: she said in a very vulgar accent, if she drank any more, she
should be muckibus.  "Lord!" said Lady Mary Coke, "what is that?"-"Oh! it is Irish for sentimental."

There is a new Morocco ambassador, who declares for Lady Caroline Petersham, preferably to
Lady Coventry.  Lady Caroline Fox says he is the best bred of all the foreign ministers, and
at one dinner said more obliging things than Mirepoix did during his whole embassy.  He is
so fashionable, that George Selwyn says he is sure my lady Winchelsea will ogle him instead
of Haslang.

I shall send you soon the fruits of my last party to Strawberry; Dick Edgcumbe, George Selwyn,
and Williams were with me: we composed a coat of arms for the two clubs at White's, which is
actually engraving from a very pretty painting of Edgcumbe, whom Mr. Chute, as Strawberry king
at arms, has appointed our chief herald painter; here is the blazon:

Vert (for card-table,) between three -parolis proper on a chevron table (for hazard-table)
two rouleaus in saltire between two dice proper: in a canton, sable, a white ball (for election)
argent.

Supporters.  An old knave of clubs on the dexter; a young knave on the sinister side; both
accoutred proper.

Crest.  Issuing out of an earl's coronet (Lord Darlington) an arm shaking a dice-box, all proper.

Motto. (Alluding to the crest,) Cogit amor nummi.  The arms encircled by a claret bottle ticket,
by way of order.

By the time I hope to see you at Strawberry Hill, there will be a second volume of the Horatiana
ready for the press; or a full and true account of the bloody civil wars of the house of Walpole,
being a narrative of the unhappy differences between Horatio and Horace Walpoles; in short,
the old wretch, who aspires to be one of the heptarchy, and who I think will live as long as
old Mrs. Lowther, has accomplished such a scene of abominable avarice and dirt, that I, notwithstanding
my desire to veil the miscarriages of my race, have been obliged to drag him and all his doings
into light-but I won't anticipate. Adieu!

(675)Daughter and heir of horatio, son of the first Viscount Townshend.

(676) The Honourable Thomas Townshend, second son of Charles second Viscount Townshend, member
for the University of Cambridge.-E.

(677) Francis Reynolds, of strangeways, Esq.-E.

(678) George Brudenel, Esq. afterwards member for Rutlandshire, and equerry to George the Second.-E.

(679) Hannah, youngest daughter of alderman Lowther.  She had been maid of honour to Queens
Mary and Anne, and died in 1757, at the age of one hundred and three.-E.

(680) Edward sixth Lord Digby.  he died in the following year.-E.

(681) The Duke of cumberland and Lord Bolingbroke.-E.

321 Letter 181 To George Montagu, Esq. May 12.

Don't imagine I write to you for any thing but form; there is nothing like news, except the
Prussian victories, which you see in the papers: by next courier we expect he will send us
at least a leg or an arm of the Empress Queen.

Our domestic politics are far from settled.  The King is gone to Kensington, and when any ministry
can be formed, it is to be sent after him.  The Parliament draggles on, till any two of the
factions can unite.  I have not got my tickets yet, but will certainly reserve what you want.
Adieu!

322 Letter 182 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, May 16, 1756.

You will hear with great satisfaction that your brother rides out every day, and bears it pretty
well.  I sent to him yesterday morning, and my Swiss boy told me with great joy at his return,
that he saw your brother's servants cutting a plate of bread and butter for him, big enough,
said he, for you, Sir, and Mr. Bentley, and Mr. Muntz--who is a Swiss painter that I keep in
the house--you perceive I deal much in Swiss.  I saw your brother this morning myself; he does
not mend so fast as I wish, but I still attribute it to the weather.  I mentioned to him Dr.
Cocchi's desire of seeing his case and regimen in writing by Dr. Pringle, but I found he did
not care for it; and you may imagine I would not press it.  I sifted Dr. Pringle himself, but
he would not give me a positive answer: I fear he still thinks that it is not totally an asthma.
If you had seen him so much worse, as I have, you would be tolerably comforted now.  Lord Malpas(682)
saw him to-day for the first time, and told me alone that he found him much better than he
expected. His spirits and attention to every thing are just as good as ever, which was far
from being the case three months ago.

I read the necessary part of your letter to Sir George Lyttelton, who thinks himself much obliged,
and leaves the vases entirely to your taste, and will be fully content with the five jesses
you name.

We have nothing new; the Parliament rises the 25th: all our attention is pointed to Minorca,
of which you must be much better and sooner informed than we can.  Great dissatisfactions arise
about the defenceless state in which it was left; it is said, some account arrived from Commodore
Edgcumbe(683) the night before last, but it is kept very secret, which at least specifies the
denomination of it.  I hope to find Mr. Conway in town to-morrow night, whither he is just
returned from Ireland; he has pacified that country to the standard of his own tranquillity.

I have read the poem you mention, the Pucelle, and am by no means popular, for I by no means
like it-it is as tiresome as if it was really a heroic poem.  The four first cantos are by
much the best, and throughout there are many vivacities; but so absurd, perplexed a story is
intolerable; the humour often missed, and even the parts that give most offence, I think very
harmless.

P. S. We are to declare war this week; I suppose, in order to make peace, as we cannot make
peace till we have made war.

(683) George, second son of Richard Lord Edgecumbe, succeeded his brother in the title, and
was by George III. created Viscount Mount Edgccumbe. He replied, "Don't tell me of the honeymoon;
it is harvest moon with me."  Adieu!

(684) Augustus Schutz, a German, master of the robes to the King, and his favourite attendant.-E.

(685) Basil sixth Earl of Denbigh.  In the following year he married Mary, daughter and coheiress
of Sir John Bruce Cotton.-E.

323 Letter 184 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, May 27, 1756.

Your brother is determined to go to Bristol in ten days: our summer, which nobody but the almanack
has the confidence to say is not winter, is so cold that he does not advance at all.  If his
temper was at all in the power of accidents, it would be affected enough just now to affect
his health! What a figure we would make in a catalogue of philosophers or martyrs!  His wife's
aunt, Mrs. Forth, who has always promised him the half of her fortune, which is at least thirty
thousand pounds, is dead, and has left him only two thousand pounds.  He sent for your brother
Ned this morning to talk to him upon some other business, and it was with such unaffected cheerfulness,
that your eldest brother concluded he was reserving the notification of a legacy of at least
ten thousand pounds for the bonne bouche; but he can bear his wife, and then what are disappointments?
Pray, my dear child, be humble, and don't imagine that yours is the only best temper in the
world.  I pretend so little to a good one, that it is no merit in me to be out of all patience.

My uncle's ambition and dirt are crowned at last: he is a peer.(686)  Lord Chief Justice Ryder,
who was to have kissed hands with him on Monday, was too ill, and died on Tuesday;(687) but
I believe his son will save the peerage.

We know nothing yet of Minorca, and seem to think so little of our war, that to pass away his
time, Mars is turned Impresario: in short, the Duke has taken the Opera-house for the ensuing
season.  There has been a contest between the manager Vanneschi and the singers Mingotti and
Ricciarelli;(688) the Duke patronizes the Mingotti and lists under her standard.  She is a
fine singer, an admirable actress; I cannot say her temper is entirely so sweet as your brother's.

May 30th, Arlington Street,

See what a country gentleman I am! One cannot stir ten miles from London without coming to
believe what one hears, and without supposing that whatever should be done, will be done. The
Opera-house is still in dispute between Signor Guglielmo and Signor Vanneschi--and Mr. Ryder(689)
will not get the peerage; for coronets are not forfeited by worthlessness, but by misfortune.
My lord Chief Justice misses one by only dying, my uncle gets one by living!

I this moment receive your letter of the 15th.  We had picked up by scrambling accounts pretty
much what you tell me of Minorca; but hitherto we only live on comparing dates.

I can add nothing to what I have said in the article of your brother.  I am going to send the
papers to Lord Macclesfield.(690)  Adieu!

P. S. It is uncertain who will be Chief Justice; Murray could have no competitor, but the Duke
of Newcastle cannot part with him from the House of Commons.(691)

(686) Through the zeal of his friend Lord Hardwicke, and the influence of the Cavendish party,
the repugnance of the King was overcome, and Horatio Walpole, on the 1st of June, was elevated
to the peerage, by the title of Lord Walpole of Wolterton.-E.

(687) On the 24th of May, the King signed a warrant for raising Sir Dudley Ryder to the peerage,
but he died before the patent was completed.-E.

(688) "Vanneschi's difference with Mingotti occasioned as many private quarrels and public
feuds as the disputed abilities of Handel and Bononcini, or the talents of Faustina and Cuzzoni,
had done thirty years before.  On a toujours tort in these disputes; and addressing the town
is but making bad worse: for not a word which either party says is believed.  These squabbles
ended in Vanneschi's being a bankrupt, a prisoner in the Fleet, and afterwards a fugitive;
and in Mingotti's acquiring for a while the sovereignty in the Opera kingdom, by which gratification
of ambition they were soon brought to the brink of ruin, as others had been before them." Burney.-E.

(689) In 1776, Mr. Ryder was created Baron Harrowby.-E.

(690) George Parker, second Earl of Macclesfield, President of the Royal Society.  He died
in 1764.-D.

(691) Mr. Potter, in a letter to Mr. Pitt of the 4th of June, says, "Upon the death of the
Chief Justice, all the Attorney-General's private friends thought the office, on every account,
so fit for him, that it would be infatuation to decline it, and that the Attorney-General himself
was of the same opinion, but the Duke of Newcastle was frightened at the thoughts of what was
to become of the House of Commons." Chatham Correspondence, v 1. i. p. 159.-E.

325 Letter 185 To The Earl Of Strafford.(692) Strawberry Hill, June 6, 1756.

My dear lord, I am not sorry to be paving my way to Wentworth Castle by a letter, where I suppose
you are at this time, and for which I waited: it is not that I stayed so long before I executed
my embassy aupr`es de Milord Tylney.  He had but one pair of gold pheasants at present, but
promises my Lady Strafford the first fruits of their loves.  He gave me hopes of some pied
peacocks sooner, for which I asked directly, as one must wait for the lying-in of the pheasants.
If I go on negotiating so successfully, I may hope to arrive at a peerage a little sooner than
my uncle has.

As your Lordship, I know, is so good as to interest yourself in the calamities of your friends,
I will, as shortly as I can, describe and grieve your heart with a catastrophe that has happened
to two of them.  My Lady Ailesbury, Mr. Conway, and Miss Rich passed two days last week at
Strawberry Hill.  We were returning from Mrs. Clive's through the long field, and had got over
the high stile that comes into the road; that is, three of us.  It had rained, and the stile
was wet.  I could not let Miss Rich straddle across so damp a palfrey, but took her in my arms
to lift her over.  At that instant I saw a coach and six come thundering down the hill from
my house; and hurrying to set down my charge, and stepping backwards, I missed the first step,
came down headlong with the nymph in my arms; but turning quite round as we rushed to the ground,
the first thing that touched the earth was Miss Rich's head.  You must guess in how improper
a situation we fell; and you must not tell my Lady Strafford before any body that every petticoat,
etc. in the world were canted high enough indeed! The coach came on, and never stopped.  The
apprehension that it would run over my Chloe made me lie where I was, holding out my arm to
keep off the horses, which narrowly missed trampling us to death.  The ladies, who were Lady
Holderness, Miss Pelham, and your sister Lady Mary Coke, stared with astonishment at the theatre
which they thought I had chosen to celebrate our loves; the footmen laughed; and you may imagine
the astonishment of Mr. Conway and Lady Ailesbury, who did not see the fall, but turned and
saw our attitude.  It was these spectators that amazed Miss Pelham, who described the adventure
to Mrs. Pitt, and said, "What was most amazing, there were Mr. Conway and Lady Ailesbury looking
on!" I shall be vexed to have told you this long story, if Lady Mary has writ it already; only
tell in@ honestly if she has described it as decently as I have.

If you have not got the new Letters and Memoirs of Madame Maintenon, I beg I may recommend
them for your summer reading. As far as I have got, which is but into the fifth volume of the
Letters, I think you will find them very curious, and some very entertaining.  The fourth volume
has persuaded me of the sincerity of' her devotion; and two or three letters at the beginning
of my present tome have made me even a little jealous for my adored Madame de S`evign`e.  I
am quite glad to find that they do not continue equally agreeable.  The extreme misery to which
France was reduced at the end of Queen Anne's war, is more striking than one could conceive.
I hope it is a debt that they are not going to pay, though the news that arrived on Wednesday
have but a black aspect.  The consternation on the behaviour of Byng,(693) and on the amazing
Council of war at Gibraltar,(694) is extreme; many think both next to impossibilities.  In
the mean time we fear the loss of Minorca.  I could not help smiling t'other day at two passages
in Madame Maintenon's Letters relating to the Duc de Richelieu, when he first came into the
world: "Jamais homme n'a mieux r`eussi `a la cour, la premi`ere fois qu'il y a paru: c'est
r`eellement une tr`es-jolie cr`eature!"  Again:--"C'est la plus aimable poup`ee qu'on puisse
voir."  How mortifying that this , jolie poup`ee should be the avenger Of the Valoises!

Adieu! my lord.  I don't believe that a daughter of the Duke of Argyle(695) will think that
the present I have announced in the first part of my letter balances the inglorious article
in the end.  I wish you would both renew the breed of heroes, which seems scarcer than that
of gold pheasants!

(692) William Wentworth, second Earl of Strafford, of the second creation.  He married Lady
Anne Campbell, second daughter of John, second Duke of Argyle, and died in 1791.-E.

(693) Hon.  John Byng, fourth son of Admiral Byng; a distinguished officer, who, for his eminent
services, was created Viscount Torrington in 1721.-E.

(694) A council of war was held at Gibraltar, to decide upon a request made by Admiral Byng
for a reinforcement of troops from that garrison for the defence of Minorca; where M. de la
Galissoni`ere, with thirteen sail of the line and several transports, had, towards the end
of April, landed a large body of land forces under the command of the Duc de Richelieu.-E.

(695) Lady Strafford was the youngest daughter of John Duke of Argyle.

327 Letter 186 To John Chute, Esq.(696) Arlington Street, June 8, 1756.

My dear sir, Pray have a thousand masses said in your divine chapel `a l'intention of your
poor country.  I believe the occasion will disturb the founder of it, and make him shudder
in his shroud for the ignominy of his countrymen.  By all one learns, Byng, Fowke, and all
the officers at Gibraltar, were infatuated! They figured Port Mahon lost, and Gibraltar a-going!
a-going! Lord Effingham, Cornwallis, Lord Robert Bertie, all, all signed the council of war,
and are in as bad odour as possible.  The King says It will be his death, and that he neither
eats nor sleeps--all our trust is in Hanoverians.

The Prince has desired to be excused living at Kensington, but accepts of 40,000 pounds a year;
5,000 pounds is given to Prince Edward, and an establishment is settling; but that too will
meet with difficulties.  I will be more circumstantial when we Meet.(697)

My uncle has chose no motto nor supporters yet: one would think there were fees to pay for
them! Mr. Fox said to him, "Why don't you take your family motto?"  He replied, "Because my
nephew would say I think I speak as well as my brother."  I believe he means me.  I like his
awe.  The Duke of Richmond, taking me for his son, reproached himself to Lady Caroline Fox
for not wishing me joy.  She is so sorry she undeceived him! Charles Townshend has turned his
artillery upon his own court: he says, "Silly fellow for silly fellow, I don't see why it is
not as well to be governed by my uncle with a blue riband, as by my cousin with a green one."

I have passed to-day one of the most agreeable days of my life; your righteous spirit will
be offended with me-but I must tell you: my Lord and Lady Bath carried my Lady Hervey and me
to dine with my Lady Allin at Blackheath.  What added to the oddness of the company in which
I found myself was her sister Mrs. Cleveland, whose bitterness against my father and uncle
for turning out her husband you have heard--but she is very agreeable.  I had a little private
satisfaction in very naturally telling my Lord Bath how happy I have made his old printer,
Franklyn.  The Earl was in extreme good-humour, repeated epigrams, ballads, anecdotes, stories,
which, as Madame S`evign`e says, put one in mind " "de sa d`efunte veine."  The Countess was
not in extreme good-humour, but in the best-humoured ill-humour in the world; contested every
thing with great drollery, and combated Mrs. Cleveland on Madame Maintenon's character, with
as much satire and knowledge of the world as ever I heard in my life.  I told my Lord Bath
General Wall's foolish vain motto, "Aut Caesar aut nihil."  He replied, "He is an impudent
fellow; he should have taken 'Murus aheneus.'"  Doddington has translated well the motto on
the caps of the Hanoverians, "Vestigia nulla retrorsum."  "They never mean to go back again."

Saunders, the new admiral, told the King yesterday in a very odd phrase, that they should scren
his heart out, if Byng is not now in the harbour of Mahon.  The world condemns extremely the
rashness of superseding admirals on no information but from our enemies.  The ministry tremble
for Thursday se'nnight (inter alia), when the King is to desire the Parliament to adjourn again.
I believe altogether it will make a party. Adieu!

(696) Now first printed.

(697) "June 6. I heard that a message in writing had been sent to the Prince, from the King
offering him an allowance of 40,000 pounds a year, and an apartment in the palaces of Kensington
and St. James's.  The answer was full of high gratitude for the allowance, but declining the
apartment, on account of the mortification it would be to his mother; though it is well known
that he does not live with her, either in town or country."  Doddington, p. 345.-E.

328 Letter 187 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 14, 1756.

Our affairs have taken a strange turn, my dear Sir, since I wrote to you last at the end of
May; we have been all confusion, consternation, and resentment!  At this moment we are all
perplexity!  When we were expecting every instant that Byng would send home Marshal Richelieu's
head to be placed upon Temple-bar, we were exceedingly astonished to hear that the governor
and garrison of Gibraltar had taken a panic for themselves, had called a council of war, and
in direct disobedience to a positive command, had refused Byng a battalion from thence.  This
council was attended, and their resolution signed, by all the chief officers there, among whom
are some particular favourites, and some men of the first quality.  Instead of being shocked
at this disappointment, Byng accompanied it with some wonderful placid letters, in which he
notified his intention of retiring under the cannon of Gibraltar, in case he found it dangerous
to attempt the relief of Minorca! These letters had scarce struck their damp before D'Abreu,
the Spanish minister, received an account from France, that Galissoni`ere had sent word that
the English fleet had been peeping about him, with exceeding caution, for two or three days;
that on the 20th of May they had scuffled for about three hours, that night had separated them,
and that to his great astonishment, the English fleet, of which he had not taken one vessel.
had disappeared in the morning.  If the world was scandalized at this history, it was nothing
to the exasperation of the court, who, on no other foundation than an enemy's report, immediately
ordered Admiral Hawke and Saunders [created an admiral on Purpose] to bridle and saddle the
first ship at hand, and post away to Gibraltar, and to hang and drown Byng and West, and then
to send them home to be tried for their lives: and not to be too partial to the land, and to
be as severe upon good grounds as they were upon scarce any, they despatched Lord Tyrawley
and Lord Panmure upon the like errand over the Generals Fowke and Stuart.  This expedition
had so far a good effect, that the mob itself could i)ot accuse the ministry of want of rashness;
and luckily for the latter, in three days more the same canal confirmed the disappearance of
the English fleet for four days after the engagement--but behold! we had scarce had time to
jumble together our sorrow for our situation, and our satisfaction for the despatch we had
used to repair it, when yesterday threw us into a new puzzle. Our spies, the French, have sent
us intelligence that Galissoni`ere is disgraced, recalled, and La Motte sent to replace him,
and that Byng has reinforced the garrison of St. Philip's(698) with--150 men!  You, who are
nearer the spot, may be able, perhaps, to unriddle or unravel all this confusion; but you have
no notion how it has put all your politics aground!

This is not our only quandary! A message of 40,000 pounds a-year, with an intention of an establishment
for a court, and an invitation of coming to live at Kensington, has been sent to Leicester-fields.
The money was very kindly received--the proposal of leaving our lady-mother refused in most
submissive terms.  It is not easy to enforce obedience; yet it is not pleasant to part with
our money for nothing--and yet it is thought that will be the consequence of this ill-judged
step of authority.  My dear child, I pity you who are to represent and to palliate all the
follies of your country!

My uncle has got his peerage: but just when the patent was ready my Lord Privy Seal Gower went
out of town, on which the old baby wrote him quite an abusive letter, which my Lord Gower answered
with a great deal of wit and severity.  Lord Ilchester(699) and Lord Falconberg(700) are created
earls.

General Isemberg of the Hessians has already diverted us: he never saw the tide till he came
to Southampton; he was alarmed, and seeing the vessel leaning on the shore, he sent for his
master of the horse, and swore at him for overturning the ship in landing the horses.  Another
of them has challenged a Hampshire justice, for committing one of his soldiers; but hitherto
both Hessians and Hanoverians are rather popular.

Your brother, whom, if any thing, I think better, is set out this morning for Bristol.  You
cannot pray more for its restoring his health than I do.  I have just received yours of May
28th, to which I make no answer, as all the events I have mentioned are posterior to your accounts.
Adieu! my dear Sir.

(698) In the month of June 1756, the Marshal de Richelieu, at the head of sixteen thousand
men, landed in Minorca, and almost immediately obtained possession of the whole island, as
well as of the fortress of St. Philip and Port Mahon, the population joining him; and the garrison,
commanded by General Blakeney, being very weak, and not having received the expected succours
from Admiral Byng.-D.

(699) Stephen first Earl of Ilchester, eldest surviving son of Sir Stephen Fox.  His titles
were given him, with remainder, in failure of issue male of himself, to his younger brother,
Henry Fox.,-D.

(700) Thomas Belasyse, fourth Viscount and first Earl of Fauconberg.  He died in 1774.-D.

330 Letter 188 To George Montagu, Esq. June 18.

The two drawings of the Vine and Strawberry, which you desired, are done. and packed up in
a box; tell me how I must send them. The confusion about the ministry is not yet settled; at
least it was not at noon to-day; but, for fear that confusion should ever finish, all the three
factions are likely to come into place together.  Poor Mr. Chute has had another bad fit; he
took the air yesterday for the first time.  I came to town but last night, and returned to
my chateau this evening knowing nothing but that we are on the crisis of battles and ministries.
Adieu!

P. S. I just hear that your cousin Halifax has resigned, on Pitt's not letting him be secretary
of state for the West Indies.

330 Letter 189 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, July 11, 1756.

I receive with great satisfaction all your thanks for my anxiety about your brother: I love
you both so much, that nothing can flatter me more, than to find I please the one by having
behaved as I ought to the other--oh, yes! I could be much more rejoiced, if this brother ceased
to want my attentions.  Bristol began to be of service to him.  but he has caught cold there,
and been out of order again: he assures me it is over.  I will give you a kind of happiness:
since he was there, he tells me, that if he does not find all the benefit he expects, he thinks
of going abroad.  I press this most eagerly, and shall drive it on, for I own if he stays another
winter in England, I shall fear his disorder will fix irremovably.  I will give you a commission,
which, for his sake, I am sure, you will be attentive to execute in the perfectest manner.
Mr. Fox wants four vases of the Volterra alabaster, of four feet high each.  I choose to make
over any merit in it to you, and though I hate putting you to expense, at which you always
catch so greedily, when it is to oblige, yet you shall present these. Choose the most beautiful
patterns, look to the execution, and send them with rapidity, with such a letter as your turn
for doing civil things immediately dictates.

There is no describing the rage against Byng; for one day we believed him a real Mediterranean
Byng.(701)  He has not escaped a sentence of abuse, by having involved so many officers in
his disgrace and his councils of war: one talks coolly of their being broke, and that is all.
If we may believe report, the siege is cooled' into a blockade, and we may still save Minorca,
and, what I think still more of dear old Blakeney.(702)  What else we shall save or lose I
know not. The French, we hear, are embarked at Dunkirk--rashly, if to come hither; if to Jersey
or Guernsey, uncertain of success if to Ireland, ora pro vobis!  The Guards are going to encamp.
I am sorry to say, that with so much serious war about our ears, we can't help playing with
crackers.  Well, if the French do come, we shall at least have something for all the money
we have laid out on Hanoverians and Hessians!  The latter, on their arrival. asked bonnement
where the French camp was.  They could not conceive being sent for if it was no nearer than Calais.

The difficulties in settling the Prince's family are far from surmounted; the council met on
Wednesday night to put the last hand to it, but left it as unsettled as ever.

Pray do dare to tell me what French and Austrians say of their treaty: we are angry--but when
did subsidies purchase gratitude!  I don't think we have always found that they even purchased
temporary assistance.  France declared, Sweden and Denmark allied to France, Holland and Austria
neuter, Spain not quite to be depended on, Prussia--how sincerely reconciled! Would not one
think we were menaced with a league of Cambray? When this kind of situation was new to me,
I did not like it-I have lived long enough, and have seen enough, to consider all political
events as mere history, and shall go and see the camps with as unthinking curiosity as if I
were a simpleton or a new general.  Adieu!

(701) His father, Lord Torrington, had made a great figure there against the Spaniards.

(702) It was at that time believed that General Blakeney had acted with great spirit; but it
appeared afterwards that he had been confined to his bed, and had not been able to do any thing.

331 Letter 190 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 12, 1756.

When I have told you that Mr. Muntz has finished the drapery of your picture, and the copy
of it, and asked you whither and how they must be sent, I think I have done all the business
of my letter; except telling you, that if you think of conveying them through Moreland, he
is gone a soldiering.  All the world is going the same road, except Mr. Muntz, who had rather
be knocked on the head for fame, than paint for it.  He goes to morrow to Kingston, to see
the great drum pass by to Cobham, as women go to take a last look of their captains.  The Duke
of Marlborough, and his grandfather's triumphal car are to close the procession.  What would
his grandame, if she were alive, say to this pageant? If the war lasts, I think well enough
of him to believe he will earn a sprig; but I have no passion for trying on a crown of laurel,
before I had acquired it.  The French are said to be embarked at Dunkirk--lest I should seem
to know more than any minister, I will not pretend to guess whither they are bound.  I have
been but one night in town, and my head sung ballads about Admiral Byng all night, as one is
apt to dream of the masquerade minuet: the streets swarm so with lampoons, that I begin to
fancy myself a minister's son again.

I am going to-morrow to Park-place; and the first week in August into Yorkshire.  If I hear
that you are at Greatworth, that is, if you will disclose your motions to me for the first
fortnight of that month, I will try if I cannot make it in my road either going or coming.
I know nothing of roads, but Lord Strafford is to send me a route, and I should be glad to
ask you do for one night--but don't expect me, don't be disappointed about me, and of all things
don't let so uncertain a scheme derange the least thing in the world that you have to do. 
There are going to be as many camps and little armies, as when England was a heptarchy.  Adieu!

 332 Letter 191
To Sir Horace Mann.
Strawberry Hill, July 24, 1756.

Because you desire it, I begin a letter to-day, but I don't fancy I shall be able to fill to
the bottom of this side.  It is in answer to your long one of the 3d.  In answer?--no; you
must have Patience till next session before your queries can be resolved, and then I believe
you will not be very communicative of the solutions.  In short, all your questions of, Why
was not Byng sent sooner? Why not with more ships? Why was Minorca not supported earlier? All
these are questions which all the world is asking as well as you, and to which all the world
does not make such civil answers as you must, and to which I shall make none, as I really know
none.(703)  The clamour is extreme, and I believe how to reply in Parliament will be the chief
business that will employ our ministry for the rest of the summer--perhaps some such home and
personal considerations were occupying their thoughts in the winter, when they ought to have
been thinking of the Mediterranean. We are still in the dark; we have nothing but the French
account of the surrender of St. Philip's: we are humbled, disgraced, angry.  We know as little
of Byng, but hear that he sailed with the reinforcement before his successor reached Gibraltar.
if shame, despair, or any human considerations can give courage, he will surely contrive to
achieve some great action, or to be knocked on the head--a cannon-ball must be a pleasant quietus.
compared to being torn to pieces by an English mob or a House of Commons.  I know no other
alternative, but withdrawing to the Queen of Hungary, who would fare little better if she were
obliged to come hither-- we are extremely disposed to massacre somebody or other, to show we
have any courage left.  You will be pleased with a cool, sensible speech of Lord Granville
to Coloredo, the Austrian minister, who went to make a visit of excuses.  My Lord Granville
interrupted him, and said, "Sir, this is not necessary; I understand that the treaty is only
of neutrality; but what grieves me is, that our people will not understand it so; and the prejudice
will be so great, that when it shall become necessary Again, as it will do, for us to support
your mistress, nobody will then dare to be a Lord Granville."

I think all our present hopes lie in Admiral Boscawen's intercepting the great Martinico fleet
of a hundred and fifty sail, convoyed by five men-of-war Boscawen has twenty.  I see our old
friend Prince Beauvau behaved well at Mahon.  Our old diversion, the Countess,(704) has exhibited
herself lately to the public exactly in a style you would guess.  Having purchased and given
her lord's collection of statues to the University of Oxford, she has been there at the public
act to receive adoration.  A box was built for her near the Vice-Chancellor, where she sat
three days together for four hours at a time to hear verses and speeches, to hear herself called
Minerva; nay, the public orator had prepared an encomium on her beauty, but being struck with
her appearance, had enough presence of mind to whisk his compliments to the beauties of her
mind.  Do but figure her; her dress had all the tawdry poverty and frippery with which you
remember her, and I dare swear her tympany, scarce covered with ticking, produced itself through
the slit of her scowered damask robe. It is amazing that she did not mash a few words of Latin,
as she used to fricasee French and Italian! or that she did not torture some learned simile,
like her comparing the tour of Sicily, the surrounding the triangle, to squaring the circle;
or as when she said it was as difficult to get into an Italian coach, as for Caesar to take
Attica, which she meant for Utica.  Adieu! I trust by his and other accounts that your brother
mends.

P. S. The letters I mentioned to you, pretended to be Bower's, are published, together with
a most virulent pamphlet, but containing affidavits, and such strong assertions of facts as
have staggered a great many people. His escape and account of himself' in Italy is strongly
questioned.  I own I am very impatient for the answer he has promised.  I admire his book so
much, and see such malice in his accusers, that I am strongly disposed to wish and think him
a good man.  Do, for my private satisfaction, inquire and pick up all the anecdotes you can
relating to him, and what is said and thought of him in Italy.  One accusation I am sure is
false, his being a plagiary; there is no author from whom he could steal that ever wrote a
quarter so well.

(703) "However the case may be with regard to Byng," writes Mr. George Grenville to Mr. Pitt,
on the first intelligence of the disaster, "what can be the excuse for sending a force, which
at the utmost is scarcely equal to the enemy, upon so important and decisive an expedition?
Though, in the venality of this hour, it may be sufficient to throw the whole blame upon Byng,
yet I will venture to say, the other is a question that, in the judgment of every impartial
man, now and hereafter, will require a better answer, I am afraid, than can be given.  I believe
be was not reckoned backward in point of personal courage, which makes this affair the more
extraordinary, and induces me to wait for his own account of it, before I form an opinion of
it." Chatham Correspondence, vol. i. p. 163.-E.

(704) Of Pomfret.

334 Letter 192 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, August 28, 1756.

As you were so kind as to interest yourself about the issue of my journey, I can tell you that
I did get to Strawberry on Wednesday night, but it was half an hour past ten first- -besides
floods the whole day, I had twenty accidents with my chaise, and once saw one of the postilions
with the wheel upon his body; he came off with making his nose bleed.  My castle, like a little
ark, is surrounded with many waters, (and yesterday morning I saw the Blues wade half way up
their horses through Teddington-lane.

There is nothing new but what the pamphlet shops produce; however it is pleasant to have a
new print or ballad every day--I never had an aversion to living in a Fronde.  The enclosed
cards are the freshest treason; the portraits by George Townshend are droll--the other is a
dull obscure thing as can be.  The "Worlds" are by Lord Chesterfield on Decorum, and by a friend
of yours and mine, who sent it before he went to Jersey; but this is a secret: they neglected
it till now, so preferable to hundreds they have published--I suppose Mr. Moore finds, what
every body else has found long, that he is aground.  I saw Lovel to-day; he is very far advanced
and executes to perfection; you will be quite satisfied; I am not discontent with my own design,
now I see how well it succeeds. It will certainly be finished by Michaelmas, at which time
I told him he might depend on his money, and he seemed fully satisfied.  My compliments to
your brother, and adieu!

334 Letter 193 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, August 29, 1756.

A journey of amusement into Yorkshire would excuse my not having writ to you above this month,
my dear Sir, but I have a better reason,--nothing has happened worth telling YOU.  Since the
conquest of Minorca, France seems to have taken the wisest way for herself, and a sure one
too of ruining us, by sitting still, and yet keeping us upon our guard, at an outrageous expense.
Gazettes of all countries announce, as you say, almost a league of Cambray against us; but
the best heads think, that after all Europe has profited of our profusion, they will have the
sense only to look on, while France and we contend which shall hereafter be the Universal Merchant
of Venal Princes.  If we reckon at all upon the internal commotions in France, they have still
a better prospect from ours: we ripen to faction fast.  The dearness of corn has even occasioned
insurrections: some of these the Chief Justice Willcs has quashed stoutly.  The rains have
been excessive just now, and must occasion more inconveniences.  But the warmth on the loss
of Minorca has opened every sluice of opposition that has been so long dammed up.  Even Jacobitism
perks up those fragments of asses' ears which were not quite cut to the quick.  The city of
London and some counties have addressed the King and their members on our miscarriages.  Sir
John Barnard, who endeavoured to stem the torrent of the former, is grown almost as unpopular
as Byng.  That poor simpleton, confined at Greenwich, is ridiculously easy and secure, and
has even summoned on his behalf a Captain Young, his warmest accuser.  Fowke, who of two contradictory
orders chose to obey the least spirited, is broke.  Pamphlets and satirical prints teem; the
courts are divided; the ministers quarrel-indeed, if they agreed, one should not have much
more to expect from them! the fair situation!

I do not wonder that you are impertinenced by Richcourt;(705) there is nothing so catching
as the insolence of a great proud woman(706) by a little upstart minister: the reflection of
the sun from brass makes the latter the more troublesome of the two.

Your dear brother returns from Bristol this week; as I fear not much recovered, I shall have
good reason to press his going abroad, though I fear in vain.  I will tell you faithfully,
after I have seen him a few days, what I think of him.

I never doubt your zeal in executing any commission I give you.  The bill shall be paid directly;
it will encourage me to employ you; but you are generally so dilatory in that part of the commission,
that I have a thousand times declined asking your assistance.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(705) Count Richcourt, a Lorrainer, prime minister at Florence for the Great Duke.

(706) The Empress Queen, wife of the Great Duke.

335 Letter 194 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Wentworth Castle, August.

I always dedicate my travels to you.  My present expedition has been very amusing, sights are
thick sown in the counties of York and Nottingham; the former is more historic, and the great
lords live at a prouder distance: in Nottinghamshire there is a very heptarchy of little kingdoms
elbowing one another, and the barons of them want nothing but small armies to make inroads
into one another's parks, murder deer, and massacre park-keepers.  But to come to particulars:
the great road as far as Stamford is superb; in any other country it would furnish medals,
and immortalize any drowsy monarch in whose reign it was executed.  It is continued much farther,
but is more rumbling. I did not stop at Hatfield(707) and Burleigh(708) to seek the palaces
of my great-uncle-ministers, having seen them before.

Budgen palace(709) surprises one prettily in a little village; and the remains of Newark castle,
seated pleasantly, began to open a vein of historic memory.  I had only transient and distant
views of Lord Tyrconnells at Belton, and of Belvoir. The borders of Huntingdonshire have churches
instead of milestones, but the richness and extent of Yorkshire quite charmed me.  Oh! what
quarries for working in Gothic! This place is one of the very few that I really like; the situation,
woods, views, and the improvements are perfect in their kinds; nobody has a truer taste than
Lord Strafford. The house is a pompous front screening an old house; it was built by the last
lord on a design of the Prussian architect Bott, who is mentioned in the King's M`emoires de
Brandenburg, and is not ugly: the one pair of stairs is entirely engrossed by a gallery of
180 feet, on the plan of that in the Colonna palace at Rome: it has nothing but four modern
statues and some bad portraits, but, on my proposal, is going to have books at each end.  The
hall is pretty, but low; the drawing-room handsome: there wants a good eating-room and staircase:
but I have formed a design for both, and I believe they will be executed--that my plans should
be obeyed when yours are not!  I shall bring you a groundplot for a Gothic building, which
I have proposed that you should draw for a little wood, but in the manner of an ancient market-cross.
Without doors all is pleasing: there is a beautiful (artificial) river, with a fine semicircular
wood overlooking it, and the temple of Tivoli placed happily on a rising towards the end. 
There are obelisks, columns, and other buildings, and above all, a handsome castle in the true
style, on a rude mountain, with a court -,and towers: in the castle-yard, a statue of the late
lord who built it.  Without the park is a lake on each side, buried in noble woods.  Now contrast
all this, and you may have some idea of Lord Rockingham's.  Imagine now a most extensive and
most beautiful modern front erected before the great Lord Strafford's old house, and this front
almost blocked up with hills, and every thing unfinished around it, nay within it.  The great
apartment, which is magnificent, is untouched -. the chimney-pieces lie in boxes unopened.
The park is traversed by a common road between two high hedges--not from necessity. Oh! no;
this lord loves nothing but horses, and the enclosures for them take place of every thing.
The bowling-green behind the house contains no less than four obelisks, and looks like a Brobdignag
nine-pin-alley: on a hill near, you would think you saw the York-buildings water-works invited
into the country.  There are temples in corn-fields; and in the little wood, a window-frame
mounted on a bunch of laurel, and intended for an hermitage.  In the inhabited part of the
house, the chimney-pieces are like tombs; and on that in the library is the figure of this
lord's grandfather, in a night- gown of plaster and gold.  Amidst all this litter and bad taste,
I adored the fine Vandvek of Lord Strafford and his secretary, and could not help reverencing
his bed-chamber. With all his faults and arbitrary behaviour, one must worship his spirit and
eloquence: where one esteems but a single royalist, one need not fear being too partial.  When
I visited his tomb in the church (which is remarkably neat and pretty, and enriched with monuments)
I was provoked to find a little mural cabinet, with his figure three feet high kneeling. Instead
of a stern bust (and his head would furnish a nobler than Bernini's Brutus) one is peevish
to see a plaything that might have been bought at Chenevix's.  There is a tender inscription
to the second Lord Strafford's wife, written by himself; but his genius was fitter to coo over
his wife's memory than to sacrifice to his father's.

Well! you have had enough of magnificence; you shall repose in a desert.  Old Wortley Montagu
lives on the very spot where the dragon of Wantley did, only I believe the latter was much
better lodged: you never saw such a wretched hovel; lean, unpainted, and half its nakedness
barely shaded with harateen stretched till it cracks.  Here the miser hoards health and money,
his only two objects: he has chronicles in behalf of the air, and battens on tokay, his single
indulgence, as he has heard it is particularly salutary.  But the savageness of the scene would
charm your Alpine taste - it is tumbled with fragments of mountains, that look ready laid for
building the world.  One scrambles over a huge terrace, on which mountain ashes and various
trees spring out of the very rocks; and at the brow is the don, but not spacious enough for
such an inmate.  However, I am persuaded it furnished Pope with this line, so exactly it answers
to the picture:

"On rifted rocks, the dragon's late abodes."

I wanted to ask Pope if he had not visited Lady Mary Wortley here during their intimacy, but
could one put that question to Avidien himself?  There remains an ancient odd inscription here,
which has such a whimsical mixture of devotion and romanticness that I must transcribe it:-

"Preye for the soul of Sir Thomas Wortley. Knight of the body to the kings Edward IV., Richard
III., Henry VII., Henry VIII., whose faults God pardon.  He caused a lodge to be built on this
crag in the midst of Wharncliff (the old orthography) to hear the harts bell, in the year of
our Lord 1510."  It was a chase, and what he meant to hear was the noise of the stags.

During my residence here I have made two little excursions and I assure you it requires resolution
. the roads are insufferable: they mend them--I should call it spoil them-- -with large pieces
of stone.  At Pomfret I saw the remains of that memorable castle "where Rivers, Vaughan, and
Gray lay shorter by the head;" and on which Gray says,

"And thou, proud boy, from Pomfret's walls shalt send A groan, and envy oft thy happy grandsire's
end!"(710)

The ruins are vanishing, but well situated; there is a large demolished church and a pretty
market-house.  We crossed a Gothic bridge of eight arches at Ferrybridge, where there is a
pretty view, and went to a large old house of Lord Huntingdon's at Ledstone, which has nothing
remarkable but a lofty terrace, a whole-length portrait of his Grandfather in tapestry, and
the having belonged to the great Lord Strafford. We saw that monument of part of poor Sir John
Bland's extravagance,(711) his house and garden, which he left orders to make without once
looking at either plan.  The house is a bastard- Gothic, but Of not near the extent I had heard.
We lay at Leeds, a dingy large town; and through very bad black roads, (for the whole country
is a colliery, or a quarry,) we went to Kirkstall Abbey, where are vast Saxon ruins, in a most
picturesque situation, on the banks of a river that falls into a cascade among rich meadows,
hills, and woods: it belongs to Lord Cardigan: his father pulled down a large house here '.
lest it should interfere with the family seat, Deane.  We returned through Wakefield, where
is a pretty Gothic chapel on a bridge,(712) erected by Edward IV., in memory of his father,
who lived at Sandal castle just by, and perished in the battle here, There is scarce any thing
of the castle extant, but it commanded a rich prospect.

By permission from their graces of Norfolk, who are at Tunbridge, Lord Strafford carried us
to WorkSop,(713) where we passed two days.  The house is huge, and one of the magnificent works
of old Bess of Hardwicke, who guarded the Queen of Scots here for some time in a wretched little
bedchamber within her own lofty one: there is a tolerable little picture of Mary's needlework.
The great apartment is vast and triste, the whole leanly furnished: the great gallery, of above
two hundred feet, at the top of the house, is divided into a library, and into nothing.  The
chapel is decent.  There is no prospect, and the barren face of the country is richly furred
with evergreen plantations, under the direction of the late Lord Petre.

On our way we saw Kiveton, an ugly neglected seat of the Duke of Leeds, with noble apartments
and several good portraits!  I went to Welbeck.  It is impossible to describe the bales of
Cavendishes, harleys, Holleses, Veres, and Ogles: every chamber is tapestried with them; nay,
and with ten thousand other fat morsels; all their histories inscribed; all their arms, crests,
devices, sculptured on chimneys of various English marbles in ancient forms (and, to say truth,
most of them ugly).  Then such a Gothic hall, with pendent fretwork in imitation of the old,
and with a chimney-piece extremely like mine in the library.  Such water-colour pictures! such
historic fragments!  In short, such and so much of every thing I like, that my party thought
they should never get me away again.  There is Prior's portrait, and the column and Varelst's
flower on which he wrote; and the authoress Duchess of Newcastle in a theatric habit, which
she generally wore, and, consequently,, looking as mad as the present Duchess; and dukes of
the same name, looking as foolish as the present Duke; and Lady Mary Wortley, drawn as an authoress,
with rather better pretensions; and cabinets and glasses wainscoted with the Greendale oak,
which was so large that an old steward wisely cut a way through it to make a triumphal passage
for his lord and lady on their wedding, and only killed it! But it is impossible to tell you@
half what there is.  The poor woman who is just dead passed her whole widowhood, except in
doing ten thousand right and just things, in collecting and monumenting the portraits and relics
of all the great families from which she descended, and which centred in her.  The Duke and
Duchess of Portland are expected there to-morrow, and we saw dozens of cabinets and coffers
with the seals not yet taken off What treasures to revel over!  The horseman Duke's man`ege
is converted into a lofty stable,. and there is still a grove or two of magnificent oaks that
have escaped all these great families, though the last Lord Oxford cut down above an hundred
thousand pounds' worth.  The place has little pretty, distinct from all these reverend circumstances.

(707) Hatfield, the seat of the Earl of Salisbury, was exchanged by King James I. with Robert
Cecil, first Earl of Salisbury, for Theobald's, in the same county.  Evelyn visited Hatfield
in March 1643: "I went," he says, "to see my Lord Salisbury's palace at Hatfield, where the
most considerable rarity, besides the house," (inferior to few then in England for its architecture,)
" was the garden and vineyard, rarely well-watered and planted.  They also showed us the picture
of Secretary Cecil in mosaic work, very well done by some Italian hand."-E.

(708) built by the great Lord Burleigh, lord treasurer to Queen Elizabeth, who visited him
at this place, and where several articles still remain which had belonged to her.-E.

(709) The episcopal palace of the Bishops of Lincoln.-E.

(710) "August 14, 1654.-Passed through Pontefract; the castle, famous for many guests, both
of late and ancient times, and the death of that unhappy king murdered in it (Richard II.),
was now demolishing by the rebels: it stands on a mount, and makes a goodly show at a distance."
Evelyn, vol. ii. p. 88.-E.

(711) Kippax Park.

(712) The chapel upon Wakefield bridge is said to have been built upon the spot where Edmund
Earl of Rutland, the youngest son of Richard Duke of York, and brother of Edward IV. and Richard
III. was killed by John Lord Clifford, surnamed the Butcher.-E.

(713) The magnificent structure here described by Walpole was burnt down in 1761.-E.

339 Letter 195 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 19, 1756.

I promised you an account of your brother as soon as he should return from Bristol, but I deferred
it for a week, till I could see him reposed and refreshed, and could judge more fairly.  I
do think him much mended; I do not say recovered. H e looks with colour again, and has (got
a little flesh, and is able to do much more than before he went.  My Lord Radnor thinks he
has a great appetite; I did not perceive it when he dined with me.  His breath is better, though
sometimes troublesome, and he brought back a great cough, which, however, is much abated. 
I think him so much better, that I ventured to talk very freely to him upon his own state;
and though I allowed him mended, I told him plainly that I was convinced his case would be
irrecoverable, if he did not go abroad.  At times he swears he will, if he falls back at all;
at others he will not listen to it, but pleads the confusion of his affairs.  I wish there
is not another more insurmountable cause, the fury, who not only torments him in this world,
but is hurrying him into the next.  I have not been able to prevail with him to pass one day
or two here with me in tranquility.  I see his life at stake, I feel for him, for you, for
myself'; I am desperate about it, and yet know no remedy!  I can only assure you that I will
not see it quietly; nor would any thing check me from going the greatest lengths with your
sister, whom I think effectually, though perhaps not maliciously, a most wicked being, but
that I always find it recoils upon your brother.  Alas! what signifies whether she murders
him from a bad heart or a bad temper?

Poor Mr. Chute, too, has been grievously ill with the gout- he is laid up at his own house,
whither I am going to see him.

I feel a little satisfaction that you have an opportunity of Richcourt's insults: who thought
that the King of Prussia would ever be a rod in our hands? For my part, I feel quite pleasant,
for whether he demolishes the Queen, or the Queen him, can one but find a loophole to let out
joy?  Lord Stormont's(714) valet de chambre arrived three days ago with an account of his being
within four leagues of Dresden.(715) He laughs at the King o abuses Count Bruhl(716) with so
much contempt, that one reconciles to him very fast: however, I don't know what to think of
his stopping in Saxony.  He assures us, that the Queen has not 55,000 men, nor magazines, nor
money; but why give her time to get away? As the chance upon the long run must be so much against
him, and as he has three times repeated his offers of desisting if the Empress-Queen will pawn
her honour (counters to which I wonder he of all Kings would trust) that she will not attack
him, one must believe that he thinks himself reduced to this step; but I don@t see how he is
reduced to involve the Russian Empress in the quarrel too.  He affirms that both intended to
demolish him--but I think I would not accuse both till at least I had humbled one.  We are
much pleased with this expedition, but at best it ensures the duration of the war--and I wish
we don't attend more to that on the Continent than to that on our element, especially as we
are discouraged a little on the latter.  You reproach me for not telling you more of Byng-
-what can I tell you, my dear child, of a poor simpleton who behaves arrogantly and ridiculously
in the most calamitous of all situations?  he quarrels with the admiralty and ministry every
day, though he is doing all he can to defer his trial. After he had asked for and had had granted
a great number of witnesses, he demanded another large set: this has been refused him: he is
under close confinement, but it will be scarce possible to try him before the Parliament meets.

The rage of addresses did not go far: at present every thing is quiet.  Whatever ministerial
politics there are, are in suspense.  The rains are begun, and I suppose will soon disperse
our camps.  The Parliament does not meet till the middle of November.  Admiral Martin, whom
I think you knew in Italy, died here yesterday, unemployed.  This is a complete abridgement
of all I know, except that, since Colonel Jefferies arrived, we think still worse of the land-officers
on board the fleet, as Boyd passed from St. Philip's to the fleet easily and back again.  Jefferies
(strange that Lord Tyrawley should not tell him) did not know till he landed here,,what succour
had been intended--he could not refrain from tears.  Byng's brother did die immediately on
his arrival.(717)  I shall like to send you Prussian journals, but am much more intent on what
relates to your brother.  Adieu!

(714) British minister at Vienna.

(715) This was the King of Prussia's irruption into Saxony, which was the commencement of the
terrible Seven Years' War.-D.

(716) Prime minister to Augustus King of Poland, and Elector of Saxony.

(717) Edward Byng, youngest brother of the Admiral.  He was bred up in the army.  On the Admiral
being brought home a prisoner, he went to visit him at Portsmouth, on the 28th of July: overcome
by the fatigue of the journey, in which he had made great expedition, he was on the next morning
seized with convulsions, and died.-E.

341 Letter 196 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 14, 1756.

I shall certainly not bid for the chariot for you; do you estimate an old dowager's new machine
but at ten pounds? You could scarce have valued herself at less! it is appraised here at fifty.
There are no family pictures but such as you might buy at any sale, that is, there are three
portraits without names.  If you had offered ten pounds for a set of Pelhams, perhaps I should
not have thought you had underpriced them.

You bid me give you some account of myself; I can in a very few words: I am quite alone; in
the morning I view a new pond I am making for gold fish, and stick in a few shrubs or trees,
wherever I can find a space, which is very rare: in the evening I scribble a little; all this
is mixed with reading; that is, I can't say I read much, but I pick up a good deal of reading.
The only thing I have done that can compose a paragraph, and which I think you are Whig enough
to forgive me, is, that on each side of my bed I have hung MAGNA CHARTA, and the warrant for
King Charles's execution, on which I have written Major Charta; and I believe, without the
latter, the former by this time would be of very little importance.  You will ask where Mr.
Bentley is; confined with five sick infants, who live in spite of the epidemic distemper, as
if they were infantas, and in bed himself with a fever and the same sore throat, though he
sends me word he mends.

The King of Prussia has sent us over a victory, which is very kind, as we are not likely to
get any of our own-not even by the secret Expedition, which you apprehend, and which I believe
still less than I did the invasion-perhaps indeed there may be another port on the coast of
France which we hope to discover, as we did one in the last war.  By degrees, and somehow or
other, I believe, we shall be fully acquainted with France.  I saw the German letter you mention,
think it very mischievous, and very well written for the purpose.

You talk of being better than you have been for many months; pray, which months were they,
and what was the matter with you?  Don't send me your fancies; I shall neither pity nor comfort
you.  You are perfectly well, and always were ever since I knew you, which is now--I won't
say how long, but within this century.  Thank God you have good health, and don't call it names.

John and I are just going to Garrick's with a grove of cypresses in our hands, like the Kentish
men at the Conquest. He has built a temple to his master Shakspeare, and I am going to adorn
the outside, since his modesty would not let me decorate it within, as I proposed, with these
mottoes:

"Quod spiro et placeo, si placeo, tuum est. That I spirit have and nature, That sense breathes
in ev'ry feature, That I please, if please I do, Shakspeare, all I owe to you."

342 Letter 197 To George Montagu, Esq. Twickenham, Monday.

You are desired to have business to hinder you from going to Northampton, and you are desired
to have none to hinder you from coming to Twickenham.  The autumn is in great beauty; my Lord
Radnor's baby-houses lay eggs every day, and promise new swarms; Mrs. Chandler treads, but
don't lay; and the neighbouring dowagers order their visiting coaches before sunset-can you
resist such a landscape? only send me a line that I may be sure to be ready for you, for I
go to London now and then to buy coals.

I believe there cannot be a word of truth in Lord Granville's going to Berlin; by the clumsiness
of the thought, I should take it for ministerial wit--and so, and so.

The Twickenham Alabouches say that Legge is to marry the eldest Pelhamine infanta; he loves
a minister's daughter--I shall not wonder if he intends it, but can the parents! Mr. Conway
mentioned nothing to me but of the prisoners of the last battle. and I hope it extends no farther,
but I vow I don't see why it should not.  Adieu!

(718) This was the battle of Lowositz, gained by the King of Prussia over the Austrians, commanded
by Marshal Brown, on the first of October, 1756.-D.

(719) Brother of the Earl Marshal.

(720) The King of Prussia was said to have fled from the first battle, though it proved a victory.

(721) He had procured copies of all Count Bruhl's despatches by bribing a secretary.

(722) The second wife of the Dauphin was daughter of Augustus King of Poland.

(723) John Stuart, Earl of Bute, who played so conspicuous a part in the succeeding reign.-D.

(724) Upon this appointment Edward Wortley Montagu thus writes to lady Mary:--"I have something
to mention that I believe will be agreeable to you: I mean some particulars relating to Lord
Bute.  He stood higher in the late Prince Of Wales's favour than any man.  His attendance was
frequent at Leicester-house, where this young Prince has resided, and since his father's death
has continued without intermission, till new officers were to be placed under him.  It is said
that another person was to be groom of the stole, but that the Prince's earnest request was
complied with in my lord's favour.  It is supposed that the governors, preceptors, etc. who
were about him before will be now set aside, and that my lord is the principal adviser, This
young Prince is supposed to know the true state of the country, and to have the best inclinations
to do all in his power to make it flourish."-E.

(725) The Duke of Newcastle.

(726) "Oct. 19. Mr. Pitt was sent for to town, and came.  He returned, rejecting all terms,
till the Duke of Newcastle was removed." Dodington, p. 346-E.

(727) The Right Hon.  John Ponsonby, brother of Lord Besborough.-D.

344 Letter 199 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct. 28, 1756.

Can you recommend one a first minister? We want one so much, that we do not insist upon his
having a character from his last place: there will be good vails.--But I forget; one ought
to condole with you: the Duke of Newcastle is your cousin, and as I know by experience how
much one loves one's relations, I sympathize with you!  But, alas! all first ministers are
mortal; and, as Sir Jonathan Swift said, crowned heads and cane heads, good heads and no heads
at all, may all come to disgrace.  My father, who had no capacity, and the Duke of Newcastle,
who has so much, have equally experienced the mutability of this world.  Well-a-day, well-a-day!
his grace is gone!  He has bid adieu to courts, retires to a hermitage, and Will let his beard
grow as long as his Duchess's.

so you are surprised! and the next question you will ask will be, who succeeds?  Truly that
used to be a question the easiest in the world to be resolved upon change of ministers. It
is now the most unanswerable.  I can only tell you that all the atoms are dancing, and as atoms
always do, I suppose. will range themselves into the most durable system imaginable. Beyond
the past hour I know not a syllable; a good deal of' the preceding hours--a volume would not
contain it.  There is some notion that the Duke of Bedford and your cousin Halifax are to be
the secretaries of state--as Witwould says, they will sputter at one another like roasted apples.

The Duchess of Hamilton has brought her beauty to London at the only instant when it would
not make a crowd.  I believe we should scarce stare at the King of Prussia, so much are we
engrossed by this ministerial ferment.

I have been this morning to see your monument;(728) it IS not Put together, but the parts are
admirably executed; there is a helmet that would tempt one to enlist.  The inscription suits
wonderfully, but I have overruled the golden letters, which not Only are not lasting, but would
not do at all, as they are to be cut in statuary marble.  I have given him the arms, which
certainly should be in colours: but a shield for your sister's would be barbarous tautology.
You see how arbitrary I am, as you gave me leave to be.  Adieu!

(729) "The Duke of Devonshire advised his Majesty to comply with Pitt's demands, whereupon
the administration was formed; on which account the Duke was unjustly censured by some unreasonable
friends; for he joined Pitt rather than Fox, not from any change of friendship, or any partiality
in Pitt's favour, but because it was more safe to be united with him who had the nation of
his side, than with the man who was the most unpopular; a reason which will have its proper
weight with most ministers." Waldegrave's Memoirs, p. 87.-E.

(730) Meaning that the Jacobites excited the clamour.

(731) Lord Temple, in a letter to Mr. Pitt of the 11th, says, "Lord Bute used expressions so
transcendently obliging to me, and so decisive of the determined purpose of Leicester-house
towards us, in the present or any future day, that your own lively imagination cannot suggest
to you a wish beyond them." Chatham correspondence, vol. i. p. 191.-E.

347 Letter 201 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, November 6, 1756.

After an inter-MinisteriUm of seventeen days, Mr. Pitt has this morning, accepted the government
as secretary of state; the Duke of Newcastle and Mr. Fox being both excluded.  The Duke of
Devonshire is to be at the head of the treasury. the Chancellor(732) retires; the seals to
be in commission. Remnants of both administrations must be preserved, as Mr. Pitt has not wherewithal
to fill a quarter of their employments.  Did you ever expect to see a time when he would not
have cousins enough? It will take some days to adjust all that is to follow.  You see that,
unless Mr. Pitt joins with either Fox or Newcastle, his ministry cannot last six months; I
would bet that the lightness of the latter emerged first. George Selwyn, hearing some people
at Arthur's t'other night lamenting the distracted state of the country, joined in the discourse,
with the whites of his eyes and his prim mouth, and fetching a deep sigh, said, "Yes, to be
sure it is terrible! There is the Duke of Newcastle's faction, and there is Fox's faction,
and there is Leicester-house! between two factions and one faction we are torn to pieces!"

Thank you for your exchequer-ward wishes for me, but I am apt to think that I have enough from
there already: don't think my horns and hoofs are growing, when I profess indifference to my
interest.  Disinterestedness is no merit in me, 'It happens to be my passion.  It certainly
is not impossible that your two young lords may appear in the new system.  Mr. Williams is
just come from his niece, Lady North's, and commends her husband exceedingly.  He tells me
that the plump Countess is in terrors lest Lord Coventry should get a divorce from his wife
and Lord Bolingbroke should marry her.  'Tis a well-imagined panic!

Mr. Mann, I trust, does not grow worse; I wish I could think he mended.  Mr. B. is sitting
in his chimney-corner literally with five girls; I expect him to meet me to-morrow at Strawberry.
As no provision is made for the great C`u in the new arrangement, it is impossible but he may
pout a little. My best compliments to your brothers and sisters. Adieu! Will this find you
at Greatworth!

(732) Lord Hardwicke.

348 Letter 202 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Nov. 13, 1756.

Your brother has told me that Mr. Pitt accepts your southern province, yielding to leave Lord
Holderness in the northern. I don't know what calm you at this distance may suppose this will
produce; I should think little; for though the Duke of Newcastle resigned on Thursday, and
Mr. Fox resigns to-day, the chief friends of each remain in place -, and Mr. Pitt accedes with
so little strength that his success seems very precarious.  If he Hanoverizes, or checks any
inquiries, he loses his popularity, and falls that way; if he burnouts the present rage of
the people, he provokes two powerful factions. His only chance seems to depend on joining with
the Duke of Newcastle, who is most offended with Fox: but after Pitt's personal exclusion of
his grace, and considering Pitt's small force, it may not be easy for him to be accepted there.
I foresee nothing but confusion: the new system is composed of such discordant parts that it
can produce no harmony.  Though the Duke of Newcastle, the Chancellor, Lord Anson, and Fox
quit, yet scarce one of their friends is discarded.  The very cement seems disjunctive; I mean
the Duke of Devonshire, who takes the treasury.  If he acts cordially, he disobliges his intimate
friend Mr. Fox; if he does not, he offends Pitt. These little reasonings will give you light,
though very insufficient for giving you a clear idea of the most perplexed and complicate situation
that ever was.  Mr. Legge returns to be chancellor of the exchequer, and Sir George Lyttelton
is indemnified with a peerage.  The Duke of Newcastle has got his dukedom entailed on Lord
Lincoln.  The seals are to be in commission, if not given to a lord keeper.  Your friend Mr.
Doddington(733) is out again for about the hundred and fiftieth time.  The rest of the list
is pretty near settled; you shall have it as soon as it takes place.  I should tell you that
Lord Temple is first lord of the admiralty.

Being much too busy to attend to such trifles as a war and America, we know mighty little of
either.  The massacre at Oswego happily proves a romance: part of the two regiments that were
made prisoners there are actually arrived at Plymouth, the provisions at Quebec being too scanty
to admit additional numbers.  The King of Prussia is gone into winter quarters, but disposed
in immediate readiness. One hears that he has assured us, that if we will keep our fleet in
good order, he will find employment for the rest of our enemies. Two days ago, in the midst
of all the ferment at court, Coloredo, the Austrian minister, abruptly demanded an audience,
in which he demanded our quotas: I suppose the King told him that whenever he should have a
ministry again he would consult them.  I will tell you my comment on this: the Empress-Queen,
who is scrupulous on the ceremonial of mischief, though she so easily passes over the reality
and ingratitude, proposes, I imagine, on a refusal which she deserves and has drawn upon her,
to think herself justified in assisting France in some attempts on us from the coast of Flanders.
I have received yours of October 23d, and am glad the English showed a proper disregard of
Richcourt.  Thank you a thousand times for your goodness to Mr. and Mrs. Dick: it obliges me
exceedingly, and I am sure will be most grateful to Lady Henry Beauclerc.

I don't know what to answer to that part about your brother: you think and argue exactly as
I have done; would I had not found it in vain! but, my dear child, you and I have never been
married, and are sad judges!  As to your elder brother's interposition, I wish he had tenderness
enough to make him arbitrary.  I beg your pardon, but he is fitter to marry your sister than
to govern her.  Your brother Gal. certainly looks better; yet I think of him just as you do,
and by no means trust to so fallacious a distemper.  Indeed I tease him to death to take a
resolution, but to no purpose.  In short, my dear Sir, they are melancholy words, but I can
neither flatter you publicly nor privately; England is undone, and your brother is not to be
persuaded; Yet i hope the former will not be quite given up, and I shall certainly neglect
nothing possible with regard to the latter.  Adieu! '

(733) Doddington, in his Diary of the 15th, says, "The Duke of Devonshire told me that he was
forced by the King to take the employment he held; that his grace was ordered to go to Mr.
Pitt, and know upon what conditions he would serve; that, in the arrangement Pitt and his friends
made, my office was demanded--he was sorry for it--he was not concerned in it--and he behaved
very civilly," etc.-E.

350 Letter 203 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Nov. 25, 1756.

You must tell me what or whose the verses are that you demand; I know of none.  I could send
you reams of tests, contests, and such stupid papers, and bushels of more stupid cards.  I
know of nothing good; nor of any news, but that the committee of creations is not closed yet.
Mr. Obrien was yesterday created Irish Earl of Thomond.  Mr. Pitt is to be wrapped up in flannel,
and brought to town to-morrow to see King George the Second; and I believe, to dissolve the
new ministry, rather than to cement it.  Mr. Fox has commenced hostilities, and has the borough
of Stockbridge from under Dr. Hay, one of the new admiralty; this enrages extremely the new
ministers, who, having neither members nor boroughs enough , will probably recur to their only
resource, popularity.

I am exceedingly obliged to the Colonel, but is that new? to whom am I so much obliged?  I
will not trouble him with any commissions: the little money I have I am learning to save: the
times give one a hint that one may have occasion for it.

I beg my best compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Wetenhall, and Mr. John Montagu.  Don't you wish
me joy of my Lord Hertford's having the garter! It makes me very happy! Adieu!

350 Letter 204 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, November 29,

No material event has yet happened under the new administration; indeed it has scarce happened
itself: your new master, Mr. Pitt, has been confined in the country with the gout, and came
to town but within these two days.  The world, who love to descry policy in every thing, and
who have always loved to find it in Mr. Pitt's illnesses, were persuaded that his success was
not perfect enough, and that he even hesitated whether he should consummate.  He is still so
lame that he cannot go to court--to be sure the King must go to him He takes the seals on Saturday;
the Parliament meets on Thursday, but will adjourn for about ten days for the re-elections.
The new ministers are So little provided with interest in boroughs, that it is almost an administration
out of Parliament.  Mr. Fox has already attacked their seats, and has undermined Dr. Hay, one
of the new admiralty, in Stockbridge: this angers extremely.  The Duke of Newcastle is already
hanging out a white flag to Pitt; but there is so little disposition in that quarter to treat,
that they have employed one Evans-, a lawyer, to draw up articles of impeachment against Lord
Anson.  On the other hand they show great tenderness to Byng, who has certainly been most inhumanly
and spitefully treated by Anson.  Byng's trial is not yet appointed.  Lord Effingham, Cornwallis,
and Stuart are arrived, and are to have their conduct examined this day se'nnight by three
general officers.  In the mean time the King, of his own motion, has given a red riband and
an Irish barony to old Blakeney, who has been at court in a hackney-coach, with a foot soldier
behind it.  As he has not only lost his government, but as he was bedrid while it was losing,
these honours are a little ridiculed: we have too many governors that will expect titles, if
losses are pretensions! Mr. Obrien is made Earl of Thomond:(734) my Lady Townshend rejoices;
she says he has family enough to re-establish the dignity of the Irish peerage, to which of
late nothing but brewers and poulterers have been raised; that she expected every day to receive
a bill from her fishmonger, signed Lord Mountshrimp!

I promised you a list of the changes when they should be complete.  They are very conveniently
ready to fill the rest of my letter.

Transcriber's note: In the print copy the following information is given in three columns:
the new office-holder on the left, the office in the middle, and the previous office-holder
on the right.

Duke of Devonshire, in the room of the duke of Newcastle

(P) Mr. Legge, Chancellor of exchequer, in the room of (N) Sir G. Lyttelton a peer.

 (N) Mr. Nugent, Lord Duncannon, (P) Mr. J. Grenville, of the
Old Treasury; in the room of Mr. Furnese, dead; (N) mr.
Obrien, Irish Earl.

Mr. w. Pitt, Secretary of State, in the room of mr. Fox.

Lord Buckingham, Lord of bedchamber, in the room of Lord Fitzwilliam, dead.

(F) Mr. Edgcumbe, Comptroller of Household, in the room of Lord Buckingham.

(F) Lord Berkeley of Stratton, Captain of pensioners, in the room of the late Lord Buckingham.

(F) Lord Bateman, Treasurer of Household, in the room of Lord berkeley.

(P) Mr. G. Grenville, Treasurer of the Navy, in the room of (F) mr. dodinglton.

(P) Mr. Potter, Joint paymaster, in the room of (N) Lord Darlington

(P) mr. martin, Secretary of Treasury, in the room of (N) Mr. West.

(P) Sir r. Lyttelton, Master of jewel Office, in the room of (N) Lord Breadalbane.

(N) Lord Breadalbane, Justice in Eyre, in the room of (N) Lord Sandys.

(N) Lord Sandys, Speaker of House of Lords, in the room of (N) Lord Chancellor.

Lord chief Justice Willes, (P) Justice Wilmot, and baron smyth, Commissioners of the Great
Seal, in the room of the Lord Chancellor.

(P) Lord Temple, Admiral Boscawen before, (P) Admiral West, (P) Dr. Hay, (P) Mr. Elliot, (P)
Mr. Hunter, (P) John Pitt, in the room of (N) Lord Anson, Admiral (N) rowley, Lord Duncannon,
(F) Lord Bateman, Lord Hyde, and (F) mr. Edgcumbe. But John Pitt is to resign again, and be
made Paymaster of the Marines, to make room for Admiral Forbes.

Charles Townshend, Treasurer of the Chambers, in the room of Lord Hilsborough, English baron.

This last is not done; as Mr. Townshend cannot be rechosen at Yarmouth, he only consents to
accept, provided another borough can be found for him' this does not appear very easy.

The Duke of Newcastle has advertised in all the newspapers, that he retires without place or
pension: here is a list of his disinterestedness.  The reversion of his dukedom for Lord Lincoln:
this is the only duchy bestowed by the present King: on my father's resignation, the new ministers
did prevail to have dukedoms offered to Lord Northampton and Lord Ailesbury; but both declined,
having no sons.  Mr. Shelley, the Duke's nephew, has the reversion of Arundel's place: Mr.
West has a great reversion for himself and his son: your little waxen friend, Tommy Pelham,
has another reversion in the Customs. Jones, the Duke's favourite secretary, and nephew of
the late chancellor, has another.  Not to mention the English barony for Sir George Lyttelton,
and the Irish earldom for Mr. Obrien.  The Garters are given to the Duke of' Devonshire, to
Lord Carlisle, Lord Northumberland, and (to my great satisfaction) to Lord Hertford.

Oh! I should explain the marks: the (N) signifies of the Newcastle and Hardwick faction; the
(P) of Pitt's; the (F) of Fox's.  You will be able by these to judge a little of how strange
a medley the new government is composed! consequently, how durable!

I was with your brother this morning at Richmond; he thinks himself better; I do not think
him worse; but judge by your own feelings if that is enough to content me.  Pray that your
brother and your country may mend a little faster! I dread the winter for him, and the summer
for England! Adieu!

P. S. Since I have finished this, I received yours of November 13th, with the account of Richcourt's
illness.  What! you are forced to have recourse to apoplexies and deaths for revolutions! We
make nothing of changing our ministers at every fall of the leaf.  My Lord Huntingdon (who,
by the way, loves you, and does you justice,) has told me one or two very good bon-mots of
the Pope:(735) I have always had a great partiality for the good old man: I desire you will
tell me any anecdotes or stories of him that you know-.  I remember some of his sayings with
great humour and wit.  You can never oblige me more than by anecdotes of particular people--but
you are indeed always good in that and every other way.

(734) Percy Windham Obrien, second son of Sir William Windham, by a daughter of Charles Duke
of Somerset.  The Earl of Thomond, who had married another daughter, left his estate to this
Mr. Windham, his wife's nephew, on condition of his taking the name of Obrien.

(735) Prospero Lambertini, called Benedict the Fourteenth.

352 Letter 205 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Dec. 8, 1756.

 Your poor brother desires me to write to you to-day, as he is
in bed (and not able.  He went to town last week, caught cold,
and returned with a fever.  He has been drinking tar-water
since the middle of November, at the persuasion of your older
brother and his Richmond friends.  Indeed he had gone through
the whole course of drugs to no purpose.  There is a great
eruption to-day in most parts of his body, which they think
will be of great service to him.  In my own opinion, he is so
weak, that I am in great apprehensions for him.  He is very
low-spirited, and yet thinks himself much better to-day.  Your
brother Ned was surprised at my being so alarmed, as they had
considered this as a most fortunate crisis-but I have much
difficulty in persuading myself to be so sanguine.  As we have
a recess for a few days, I shall stay here till Saturday, and
see your brother again, and will tell you my opinion again.
You see I don't deceive you: if that is any satisfaction, be
assured that nobody else would give you so bad an account, as
I find all his family have new hopes of him: would to God I
had

Our first day of Parliament(736) passed off harmoniously; but in the House of Lords there was
an event.  A clause of thanks for having sent for the Hanoverians had crept into the address
of the peers--by Mr. Fox's means, as the world thinks: Lord Temple came out of a sick bed to
Oppose it.(737)  Next day there was an alarm of an intention of instating the same clause in
our address.  Mr. Pitt went angry to court, protesting that he would not take the seals, if
any such motion passed: it was sunk.  Next day he accepted--and the day after, Mr. Fox, extremely
disgusted with the Duke of Devonshire for preferences shown to Mr. Pitt, retired into the country.
The Parliament is adjourned for the reelections; and Mr. Pitt, who has pleased in the closet,
is again laid up with the gout.  We meet on Monday, when one shall be able to judge a little
better of the temper of the winter.  The Duke of Bedford is to be Lord Lieutenant of Ireland-no
measure of peace! Not to mention his natural warmth, every body is sensible that he is only
placed there to traverse Pitt.

Your brother and I are uneasy about your situation: when we are treated insolently at Leghorn,
to what are we sunk! Can Mr. Pitt or the King of Prussia find a panacea for all our disgraces?
Have you seen Voltaire's epigram?

"Rivaux du Vainqueur de l'Euphrate, L'Oncle,(738) et le Neveu;(739) L'un fait la guerre en
pirate, L'autre en partie bleue."

It is very insipid!  It Seems to me,(740) as if Uncle and Nephew could furnish a better epigram
, unless their reconciliation deadens wit.  Besides, I don't believe that the Uncle of these
lines means at all to be like Alexander, who never was introduced more pompously for the pitiful
end of supplying @ rhyme.

Is it true what we see in the gazettes, that the Pantheon is tumbled down? Am not I a very
Goth, who always thought it a dismal clumsy performance, and could never discover any beauty
in a strange mass of light poured perpendicularly into a circle of obscurity?  Adieu! I wish
you may hope more with your elder brother than tremble with me!

(736) "The Speech from the throne, by its style and substance, appeared to be the work of the
new speech-maker: the Militia, which his Majesty had always turned into ridicule, being strongly
recommended, the late administration censured, and the uncourtly addresses of the preceding
summer receiving the highest commendations." Waldegrave, 88.-E.

(737) "The new Lord of the Admiralty came, as he told the Lords, out of a sick bed, at the
hazard of his life, (indeed, he made a most sorrowful appearance,) to represent to their lordships
the fatal consequences of the intended compliment: he said, that the people of England would
be offended even at the name of Hanover, or of foreign mercenaries, and added many other arguments,
without mentioning the true reason of his disapprobation: namely, the Duke of Devonshire's
having added this compliment without consulting him: and, having finished his oration, went
out of the House, with a thorough conviction that such weighty reasons must be quite unanswerable."
Ibid. p. 89.-E.

((738) George II.

(739) The King of Prussia.

(740) Mr. Walpole had had a quarrel with his uncle Horatio.

354 Letter 206 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 16, 1756.

It will be easier for you, I fear, to guess, than for me to describe, what I have felt for
these last six days!  Your dear brother is still alive; it is scarce possible he should be
so when you receive this.  I wrote to you this day se'nnight, the day after I saw him last.
On that day and Friday I received favourable messages.  I went myself on Saturday, as I had
promised him--how shocked I was at seeing Your brother Ned and a lawyer come to the chaise:
the former told me that poor Gal. had desired the lawyer to settle his affairs, which were
then in agitation: you may imagine I did not choose to add the tender sensations of seeing
me, to what he was then feeling? I saw our doom too plainly, though your brother Ned still
had hopes.  Every day confirmed my fears: but I could not bear my anxiety, and went to Richmond
to-day, with as much horror as persons must go to execution yet determined to see Gal. if I
found that he had expressed the leas@ desire of it.--Alas! he has scarce had moments of sense
since Sunday morning--how can I bring myself to say of so dreadful a situation, that it is
my greatest consolation! But I could not support the thought of his remaining sensible of death
with all those anxious attentions about him which have composed his whole life! Oh! my dear
child, what rash wretches are heroes, compared to this brother of yours!  Nothing ever equalled
his cool solicitude for his family and friends.  What an instance am I going to repeat to you!
His most unhappy life was poisoned by the dread of leaving his children and fortune to be torn
to pieces by his frantic wife, whose settlements entitled her to thirds. On Friday, perceiving
her alarmed by his danger, he had the amazing presence of mind and fortitude to seize that
only moment of tenderness, and prevailed on her to accept a jointure.  He instantly despatched
your brother Ned to London for his lawyer, and by five o'clock on Saturday, after repeated
struggles of passion on her side, the whole was finished.  Dear Gal. he could not speak, but
he lifted up his hands in thanks!  While he had any sense, it was employed in repeated kindnesses,
particularly to your brother James--he had ordered a codicil, but they have not found a sufficient
interval to get it signed!

My dearest Sir, what an afflicting letter am I forced to write to you! but I flatter myself,
you will bear it better from me, than from any other person: and affectionate as I know you,
could I deprive you or myself of the melancholy pleasure of relating such virtues My poorest,
yet best consolation is, that, though I think his obstinacy in not going abroad, and Ill management,
may have hurried his end, yet nothing could have saved him; his lungs are entirely gone.  But
how will you be amazed at what I am going to tell you! His wretched wife is gone mad--at least
your brother Ned and the physician are persuaded so--I cannot think so well of her.--I see
her in so diabolic a light, that I cannot help throwing falsehood into the account--but let
us never mention her more.  What little more I would say, for I spare your grief rather than
indulge my own, is, that I beseech you to consider me as more and more your friend: I adored
Gal. and will heap affection on that I already have for you.  I feel your situation, and beg
of you to manage with no delicacy, but confide all your fears and wishes and wants to me-if
I could be capable of neglecting you, write to Gal.'s image that will for ever live in a memory
most grateful to him.

You will be little disposed or curious to hear politics; yet it must import you always to know
the situation of your country, and 'It never was less settled.  Mr. Pitt is not yet able to
attend the House, therefore no inquiries are yet commenced.  The only thing like business has
been the affair of preparing quarters for the Hessians, who are soon to depart; but the Tories
have shown such attachment to Mr. Pitt on this occasion, that it is almost become a Whig point
to detain them.  The breach is so much widened between Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, and the latter
is so warm, that we must expect great violences.  The Duke of Newcastle's party lies quiet;
one of the others must join it. The -new ministers have so little weight, that they seem determined
at least not to part with their popularity: the new Secretary of State(741) is to attack the
other, lord Holderness, on a famous letter of his sent to the mayor of Maidstone, for releasing
a Hanoverian soldier committed for theft.  You may judge what harmony there is!

Adieu, my dear Sir! How much I pity you, and how much you ought to pity me! Imitate your brother's
firmness of Mind, and bear his loss as well as you can.  You have too much merit not to be
sensible of his, and then it will be impossible for you to be soon comforted.

(741) Mr. Pitt.

356 Letter 207 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 23, 1756.

I KNOW I can no more add to your concern than to my own, by giving you the last account of
your dear brother, who put a period to our anxious suspense in the night between the 20th and
21st.  For the five last days he had little glimmerings of amendment, that gave hopes to some
of his friends, terror to me, who dreaded his sensibility coming to Itself! When I had given
up his life, I could not bear the return of his tenderness!  Sure he had felt enough for his
friends--yet he would have been anxious for them if he had recovered his senses.  He has left
your brothers Edward, James, and Foote,(742) his executors; to his daughters 7500 pounds a-piece,
and the entail of his estate in succession--to a name I beg we may never mention, 700 pounds
a-year, 4000 pounds and his furniture, etc.  Your brother James, a very worthy man, though
you never can have two Gals. desired me to give you this account--' how sad a return for the
two letters I have received from you this week! Be assured, my dear Sir, that nothing could
have saved his life.  For your sake and my own I hurry from this dreadful subject-not for the
amusement of' either, or that I have any thing to tell you: my letter shall be very short,
for I am stabbing you with a dagger used on myself!

Mr. Pitt has not been able to return to Parliament for the gout, which has prevented our having
one long day; we adjourn to-morrow for a fortnight; yet scarce to meet then for business, as
a call of the House is not appointed till the 20th of January; very late indeed, were any inquiries
probable: this advantage I hope will be gained, that our new ministers will have a month's
time to think of their country.

Adieu! my dear Sir, this letter was necessary for me to write- -I find it as necessary to finish
it.

(742) Mr. Foote married the second sister of Mr. Mann; as his brother, a clergyman, afterwards
did the third.

356 Letter 208 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, January 6, 1757.

I live in dread of receiving your unhappy letters! I am sensible how many, many reasons you
have to lament your dear brother; yet your long absence will prevent the loss of him from leaving
so sharp a sting as it would have done had you seen as much of him as I have of late years!
When I wrote to you, I did not know his last instance Of love to you;(743) may you never have
occasion to use it!

I wish I could tell you any politics to abstract your thoughts from your concern; but just
at present all political conversation centres in such a magazine of abuse, as was scarce ever
paralleled.  Two papers, called the "Test" and "Contest," appear every Saturday, the former
against Mr. Pitt, the latter against Mr. Fox, which make me recollect-,' "Fogs" and "Craftsmen"
as harmless libels.  The authors are not known; Doddington(744) is believed to have the chief
hand in the "Test,"(745) which is much the best, unless virulence is to bestow the laurel.
He has been turned out by the opposite faction, and has a new opportunity of revenge, being
just become a widower.  The best part of his fortune is entailed on lord Temple if he has no
son; but I suppose he would rather marry a female hawker than not propagate children and lampoons.
There is another paper, called "The Monitor,"(746) written by one Dr. Shebbeare, who made a
pious resolution of writing himself into a place or the pillory,(747) but having miscarried
in both views, is wreaking his resentment on the late Chancellor, who might have gratified
him in either of his objects.  The Parliament meets to-morrow, but as Mr. Pitt cannot yet walk,
we are not likely soon to have any business. Admiral Byng's trial has been in agitation above
these ten days, and is supposed an affair of length: I think the reports are rather unfavourable
to him, though I do not find that it is believed he will be capitally punished.  I will tell
you my sentiments, I don't know whether judicious or not: it may perhaps take a great deal
of time to prove he was not a coward; I should think it would not take half an hour to prove
he had behaved bravely.

Your old royal guest King Theodore is gone to the place which it is said levels kings and beggars;
an unnecessary journey for him, who had already fallen from one to the other; I think he died
somewhere in the liberties of the Fleet.(748)

lord Lyttelton has received his things, and is much content with them; this leads me to trouble
you with another, I hope trifling, commission; will you send me a case of the best drains for
Lord Hertford, and let me know the charge?

You must take this short letter only as an instance of my attention to you; I would write,
though I knew nothing to tell you.

(743) Mr. Galfridus Mann left an annuity to his brother Sir Horace, in case he were recalled
from Florence.

(744) George Bubb Doddington, Esq.  This report was not confirmed.

(745) "The Test" was written principally by Arthur Murphy.  It forms a thin folio volume,.-E.

(746) "The "Monitor" was commenced in August 1755, and terminated in July 1759.

(748) See an account of his death, and the monument and epitaph erected for him in Mr. Walpole's
fugitive pieces; see also his letter to Sir Horace Mann of the 29th of September, in this year.-E.

358 Letter 209 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 17, 1757.

I am still, my dear Sir, waiting for your melancholy letters, not one of which has yet reached
me.  I am impatient to know how you bear your misfortune, though I tremble at what I shall
feel from your expressing it!  Except good Dr. Cocchi, what sensible friend have you at Florence
to share and moderate your unhappiness?--but I will not renew it: I will hurry to tell you
any thing that may amuse it--and yet what is that any thing; Mr. Pitt, as George Selwyn says,
has again taken to his Lit de Justice; he has been once with the King,(749) but not at the
House; the day before yesterday the gout flew into his arm, and has again laid him up: I am
so particular in this, because all our transactions, or rather our inactivity, hang upon the
progress of his distemper.  Mr. Pitt and every thing else have been forgot for these five days,
obscured by the news of the assassination of the King of France.(750)  I don't pretend to tell
you any circumstance of it, who must know them better than, at least as well as, I can; war
and the sea don't contribute to dispel the clouds of lies that involve such a business.  The
letters of the foreign ministers, and ours from Brussels, say he has been at council; in the
city he is believed dead: I hope not! We should make a bad exchange in the Dauphin.  Though
the King is weak and irresolute, I believe he does not want sense: weakness, bigotry, and some
sense, are the properest materials for keeping alive the disturbances in that country, to which
this blow, if the man was any thing but a madman, Will contribute.  The despotic and holy stupidity(751)
of the successor would quash the Parliament at once. He told his father about a year ago, that
if he was King, the next day, and the Pope should bid him lay down his crown, he would.  They
tell or make a good answer for the father, "And if he was to bid you take the crown from me,
would you!" We have particular cause to say masses for the father: there is invincible aversion
between him and the young Pretender, whom, it is believed, nothing could make him assist. 
You may judge what would make the Dauphin assist him! he was one day reading the reign of Nero
he said, "Ma foi, c'`etoit le plus grand sc`el`erat qui f`ut jamais; il ne lui manquoit que
d'`etre Janseniste."  I am grieving for my favourite,(752) the Pope, whom we suppose dead,
at least I trust he was superannuated when they drew from him the late Bull enjoining the admission
of the Unigenitus on pain of damnation; a step how unlike all the amiable moderation of his
life! In my last I told you the death of another monarch, for whom in our time you and I have
interested ourselves, King Theodore.  He had just taken the benefit of the act of insolvency,
and went to the Old Bailey for that purpose: in order to it, the person applying gives up all
his effects to his creditors - his Majesty was asked what effects he had?  He replied, nothing
but the kingdom of Corsica--and it is actually registered for the benefit of the creditors.
You may get it intimated to the Pretender, that if he has a mind to heap titles upon the two
or three medals that he coins, he has nothing to do but to pay King Theodore's debts, and he
may have very good pretensions to Corsica.  As soon as Theodore was at liberty, he took a chair
and went to the Portuguese minister, but did not find him at home: not having sixpence to pay,
he prevailed on the chairman to carry him to a tailor he knew in Soho, whom he prevailed upon
to harbour him; but he fell sick the next day, and died in three more.

Byng's trial continues; it has gone ill for him, but mends; it is the general opinion that
he will come off for some severe censure.

Bower's first part of his reply is published; he has pinned a most notorious falsehood about
a Dr. Aspinwall on his enemies, which must destroy their credit, and will do him more service
than what he has yet been able to prove about himself.  They have published another pamphlet
against his history, but so impertinent and scurrilous and malicious, that it will serve him
more than his own defence: they may keep the old man's life so employed as to prevent the prosecution
of his work, but nothing can destroy the merit of the three volumes already published, which
in every respect is the best written history I know: the language is the purest, the compilation
the most judicious, and the argumentation the soundest.

The famous Miss Elizabeth Villiers Pitt(753)  is in England; the only public place in which
she has been seen is the Popish chapel; her only exploit, endeavours to wreak her malice on
her brother William, whose kindness to her has been excessive. She applies to all his enemies,
and, as Mr. Fox told me, has even gone so far as to send a bundle of his letters to the author
of the Test, to prove that Mr. Pitt has cheated her, as she calls it, of a hundred a year,
and which only prove that he once allowed her two, and after all her wickedness still allows
her one.  she must be vexed that she has no way of setting the gout more against him! Adieu!
tell me if you receive all my letters.

(749) "The King became every day more and more averse to his new ministers.  Pitt, indeed,
had not frequent occasions of giving offence, having been confined by the gout the greater
part of the winter; and when he made his appearance he behaved with proper respect, so that
the King, though he did not like his speeches, always treated him like a gentleman." Waldegrave,
p. 93.-E.

(750) Lady Hervey, in a letter of the 13th, gives the following account of Damien's attempt:--"I
have barely time to tell you the news of the day, which arrived by a courier from France this
morning to M. d'Abreu, the Spanish minister.  The King of France was stepping into his coach
to go to Bellevue, and a fellow who seemed to be gaping and looking at the coach en hayeur,
took his opportunity, and taking aim at the King's heart thrust his dagger into his side,--Just
over against the heart; but a lucky and sudden motion the King gave with his elbow at that
moment, turned the dagger. which made only a slight wound in his ribs, as they say, which is
judged not to be dangerous.  The fellow was immediately secured."-E.

(751) The Dauphin, son of Louis XV., had been bred a bigot; but, as he by no means wanted sense,
he got over the prejudices of his education, and before he died had far more liberal sentiments.

(752) Prospero Lambertini, by the name of Benedict XIV.  For Walpole's inscription on his picture,
see Works, vol. i. p. 218; and also post, letter to Sir Horace Mann of the 20th of June, in
this year.-E.

(753) Sister of William Pitt, afterwards Earl of Chatham.

360 Letter 210 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 30, 1757.

Last night I received your most melancholy letter of the 8th of this month, in which you seem
to feel all or more than I apprehended.  As I trust to time and the necessary avocation of
your thoughts, rather than to any arguments I could use for your consolation, I choose to say
as little more as possible on the subject of your loss.  Your not receiving letters from your
brothers as early as mine was the consequence of their desiring me to take that most unwelcome
office upon me: I believe they have both written since, though your eldest brother has had
a severe fit of the gout: they are both exceedingly busied in the details necessarily fallen
upon them.  That would be no reason for their neglecting you, nor I am persuaded will they;
they shall certainly want no incitements from me, who wish and will endeavour as much as possible
to repair your loss, alas! how inadequately!  Your brother James has found great favour from
the Duke.(754)  Your @brother Ned, who is but just come to town from his confinement, tells
me that your nephew will be in vast circumstances; above an hundred thousand pounds, besides
the landed estate and debts! These little details related, I had rather try to amuse you, than
indulge your grief and my own; your dear brother's memory will never be separated from mine;
but the way in which I shall show it, shall be in increased attention to you: he and you will
make me perpetually think on both of you!

All England is again occupied with Admiral Byng; he and his friends were quite persuaded of
his acquittal.  The court-martial, after the trial was finished, kept the whole world in suspense
for a week; after great debates and divisions amongst themselves, and despatching messengers
hither to consult lawyers whether they could not mitigate the article of war, to which a negative
was returned, they pronounced this extraordinary sentence on Thursday: they condemn him to
death for negligence, but acquit him of disaffection and cowardice (the other heads of the
article), specifying the testimony of Lord Robert Bertie in his favour, and unanimously recommending
him to mercy; and accompanying their sentence with a most earnest letter to the Lords of the
admiralty to intercede for his pardon, saying, that finding themselves tied up from moderating
the article of war, and not being able in conscience to pronounce that he had done all he could,
they had been forced to bring him in guilty, but beg he may be spared.  The discussions and
difference of opinions, on the sentence is incredible.  The cabinet council, I believe, will
be to determine whether the King shall pardon him or not: some who wish to make him the scapegoat
for their own neglects, I fear, will try to complete his fate, but I should think the new administration
will not be biassed to blood by such interested attempts.  He bore well his Unexpected sentence,
as he has all the outrageous indignities and cruelties heaped upon him. last week happened
an odd event, I can scarce say in his favour, as the world seems to think it the effect of
the arts of some of his friends: Voltaire sent him from Switzerland an accidental letter of
the Duc de Richelieu bearing witness to the Admiral's good behaviour in the engagement.(755)
A letter of a very deferent cast, and of great humour, is showed about, said to be written
to Admiral Boscawen from an old tar, to this effect:

"Sir., I had the honour of being at the taking of Port Mahon, for which one gentleman(756)
was made a lord; I was also at the losing of Mahon, for which another gentleman(757) has been
made a lord: each of those gentlemen performed but one of those services; surely I, who performed
both, ought at least to be made a lieutenant.  Which is all from your honour's humble servant,
etc."(758)

Did you hear that after their conquest, the French ladies wore little towers for pompons, and
called them des Mahonnoises?  I suppose, since the attempt on the King, all their fashions
will be `a l'assassin.  We are quite in the dark still about that history: it is one of the
bad effects of living in one's own time, that one never knows the truth of it till one is dead!

Old Fontenelle is dead at last;(759) they asked him as he was dying "s'il sentoit quelque mal?"
He replied, "Oui, je sens le mal d'`etre."  My uncle, a young creature compared to Fontenelle,
is grown something between childish and mad, and raves about the melancholy situation of politics;(760)
one should think he did not much despair of his country, when at seventy-eight he could practice
such dirty arts to intercept his brother's estate from his brother's grandchildren! conclusion
how unlike that of the honest good-humoured Pope! I am charmed with his bon-mot that you sent
me.  Apropos! Mr, Chute has received a present of a diamond mourning ring from a cousin; he
calls it l'anello del Piscatore.(761)

Mr. Pitt is still confined, and the House of Commons little better than a coffee-house.  I
was diverted the other day with P`ere Brumoy's translation of Aristophanes; the Harangueses,
or female orators, who take the Government upon themselves instead of their husbands, might
be well applied to our politics: Lady Hester Pitt, Lady Caroline Fox, and the Duchess of Newcastle,
should be the heroines of the piece; and with this advantage, that as lysistrata is forced
to put on a beard, the Duchess has one ready grown.

Sir Charles Williams is returning, on the bad success of our dealings with Russia.  The French
were so determined to secure the Czarina, that they chose about seven of their handsomest young
men to accompany their ambassador.  How unlucky for us, that Sir Charles was embroiled with
Sir Edward Hussey Montagu, who could alone have outweighed all the seven! Sir Charles's daughter,
Lady Essex, had engaged the attentions of Prince Edward,(762) who has got his liberty, and
seems extremely disposed to use it, and has great life and good-humour.  She has already made
a ball for him.  Sir Richard Lyttelton was so wise as to make her a visit, and advise her not
to meddle with politics; that the Princess would conclude it was a plan laid for bringing together
Prince Edward and Mr. Fox!(763)  As Mr. Fox was not just the person my Lady Essex was thinking
of bringing together with Prince Edward, she replied very cleverly, "And my dear Sir Richard,
let me advise you not to meddle with politics neither."  Adieu!

(754) From the Duke of Cumberland, commander-in-chief of the army.  Mr. Galfridus and James
Mann were clothiers to many regiments.

(755) Voltaire's letter to Admiral Byng was written in English, and is as follows:@' Aux D`elices,
pr`es de Gen`eve. Sir, though I am almost unknown to you, I think 'tis my duty to send you
the copy of the letter which I have just received from the Marshal Duc de Richelieu; honour,
humanity, and equity order me to convey it into your hands.  The noble and unexpected testimony
from one of the most candid as well as the most generous of my countrymen, makes me presume
your judges will do you the same justice."  Sir John Barrow, in his Life of Lord Anson, proves
that these letters got into the hands of those who were not friendly to the Admiral, and he
suspects that they never reached the unfortunate person for whose benefit they were intended.-E.

(756) Byng, Viscount Torrington.

(757) Lord Blakeney.

(758) It is now generally believed that Byng was brave but incapable.  He might have done more
than he did; but this was occasioned not by his want of courage, but by his want of ability.
He was cruelly sacrificed to the fury of the people, and to the popularity of the ministry.-D.

(759) Fontenelle died on the 9th of January, having nearly completed his hundredth year.  M.
le Cat, in his `eloge of him, gives the following account of his dying words!--"he reflected
upon his own situation, just as he would upon that of another man, and seemed to be observing
a phenomenon. Drawing very near his end, he said, 'This is the first death I have ever seen;'
and his physicians having asked him, whether be was in pain, or what he felt, his answer was,
'I feel nothing but a difficulty of existing.'"-E.

(760) The following is Lord Chesterfield's account of Sir Charles's mental alienation, in a
letter of the 4th, to his son: "He was let blood four times on board the ship, and has been
let blood four times since his arrival here; but still the inflammation continues very high.
He is now under the care of his brothers.  They have written to the same Mademoiselle John,
to prevent, if they can, her coming to England; which, when she hears, she must be as mad as
he is, if she takes the journey.  By the way, she must be une dame aventuri`ere, to receive
a note for ten thousand roubles, from a man whom she had known only three days; to take a contract
of marriage, knowing he was married already; and to engage herself to follow him to England."
Again, on the 22d, he writes, "Sir C. W. is still in confinement, and, I fear, will always
be so, for he seems cum ratione sanire: the physicians have collected all he has said and done,
that indicated an alienation of mind, and have laid it before him in writing; he has answered
it in writing too, and justifies himself by the most plausible argument that can possibly be
urged.  I conclude this subject With pitying him, and poor human nature, which holds its reason
by so precarious a tenure.  The lady, who you tell me is set out, en sera pour la peine et
les frais du voyage, for her note is worth no more than her contract."-E.

(761) The Pope's seal with a ring, which is called the Fisherman's ring.  Mr. Chute, who was
unmarried, meant that his cousin was fishing for his estate.

(762) Brother of George the Third; afterwards created Duke of York.  He died in 1767, at the
early age of twenty-eight.-E.

(763) Sir Charles Williams was a particular friend of Mr. Fox.

363 Letter 211 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Feb. 13, 1757.

I am not surprised to find you still lamenting your dear brother but you are to blame, and
perhaps I shall be so, for asking and giving any more accounts of his last hours. Indeed, after
the fatal Saturday, on which I told you I was prevented seeing him by his being occupied with
his lawyer, he had scarce an interval of sense--and no wonder!  His lawyer has since told me,
that nothing ever equalled the horrid indecencies of your sister-in-law on that day.  Having
yielded to the settlement for which he so earnestly begged, she was determined to make him
purchase it, and in transports of passion and avarice, kept traversing his chamber from the
lawyer to the bed, whispering her husband, and then telling the lawyer, who was drawing the
will, "Sir, Mr. Mann says I am to have this, I am to have that!"  The lawyer at last, offended
to the greatest degree, said, "Madam, it is Mr. Mann's will I am making, not yours!"--but here
let me break it off; I have told you all I know, and too much.  It was a very different sensation
I felt, when your brother Ned told me that he had found seven thousand pounds in the stocks
in your name. As Mr. Chute and I know how little it is possible for you to lay up, we conclude
that this sum is amassed for you by dear Gal.'s industry and kindness, and by a silent way
of serving you, without a possibility of his wife or any one else calling it in question.

What a dreadful catastrophe is that of Richcourt's family! What lesson for human grandeur!
Florence, the scene of all his triumphs and haughtiness, is now the theatre of his misery and
misfortunes!

After a fortnight of the greatest variety of opinions, Byng's fate is still in suspense.  The
court and the late ministry have been most bitter against him; the new admiralty most good-natured;
the King would not pardon him.  They would not execute the sentence, as many lawyers are clear
that it is not a legal one.(64)  At last the council has referred it to the twelve judges to
give their opinion: if not a favourable one, he dies!  He has had many fortunate chances had
the late admiralty continued, one knows how little any would have availed him.  Their bitterness
will always be recorded against themselves: it will be difficult to persuade posterity that
all the shame of last summer was the fault of Byng!  Exact evidence of whose fault it was,
I believe posterity will never have: the long expected inquiries are begun, that is, some papers
have been moved for, but so coldly, that it is plain George Townshend and the Tories are unwilling
to push researches that must necessarily reunite Newcastle and Fox. In the mean time, Mr. Pitt
stays at home, and holds the House of Commons in commendam.  I do not augur very well of the
ensuing summer; a detachment is going to America under a commander whom a child might outwit,
or terrify with a pop-gun! The confusions in France seem to thicken with our mismanagements:
we hear of a total change in the ministry there, and of the disgrace both of Machault and D'Argenson,
the chiefs of the Parliamentary and Ecclesiastic factions. That the King should be struck with
the violence Of their parties, I don't wonder: it is said, that as he went to hold the lit
de Justice, no mortal cried Vive le Roi! but one old woman, for which the mob knocked her down,
and trampled her to death.

My uncle died yesterday was Se'nnight; his death I really believe hastened by the mortification
of the money vainly spent at Norwich.  I neither intend to spend money, nor to die of it, but,
to my mortification, am forced to stand for Lynn, in the room of his son.  The corporation
still reverence my father's memory so much, that they will not bear distant relations, while
he has sons living.  I was reading the other day a foolish book called "l'Histoire des quatre
Cic`erons;" the author, who has taken Tully's son for his hero, says, he piques himself on
out-drinking Antony, his father's great enemy.  Do you think I shall ever pique myself on being
richer than my Lord Bath?

Prince Edward's pleasures continue to furnish conversation: he has been rather forbid by the
Signora Madre to make himself so common; and he has been rather encouraged by his grandfather
to disregard the prohibition.  The other night the Duke and he were at a ball at Lady Rochford's:(765)
she and Lady Essex were singing in an inner chamber when the Princes entered, who insisting
on a repetition of the song, my Lady Essex, instead of continuing the same, addressed herself
to Prince Edward in this ballad of Lord -Dorset-

"False friends I have as well as you, Who daily counsel me Fame and ambition to pursue, And
leave off loving thee--"

It won't be unamusing, I hope it will be no more than amusing, when all the Johns of Gaunt,
and Clarences, and Humphrys of Gloucester, are old enough to be running about town, and furnishing
histories.  Adieu!

(764) Walpole, in his Memoires, vol. it. p. 152, says, that Mr. Pitt moved the King to mercy,
but was cut very short; nor did his Majesty remember to ask his usual question, whether there
were any favourable circumstances."-E.

(765) Lucy Young, wife of William Henry, Earl of Rochford.

364 Letter 212 To John Chute, Esq.(766) Sunday night, very late, Feb. 27, 1757.

My dear Sir, I should certainly have been with YOU to-night, as I desired George Montagu to
tell you, but every six hours produce such new wonders, that I do not know when I shall have
a moment to see you.  Will you, can you believe me, when I tell you that the four persons of
the court-martial whom Keppel named yesterday to the House as commissioning him to ask for
the bill, now deny they gave him such commission, though Norris, one of them, was twice on
Friday with Sir Richard Lyttelton, and once with George Grenville for the same purpose!  I
have done nothing but traverse the town tonight from Sir Richard Lyttelton's to the Speaker's,
to Mr. Pitt's, to Mr. Fox's, to Doddington's, to Lady Hervey's, to find out and try how to
defeat the evil of this, and to extract, if possible, some good from it.  Alas!  alas! that
what I meant so well, should be likely only to add a fortnight to the poor man's misery! Adieu!

(766) Now first published.

365 Letter 213 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 3, 1757.

I have deferred writing to you till I could tell you something certain of the fate of Admiral
Byng: no history was ever so extraordinary, or produced such variety of surprising turns. In
my last I told you that his sentence was referred to the twelve judges.  They have made law
of that of which no man else could make sense.  The Admiralty immediately signed the warrant
for his execution on the last of February--that is, three signed: Admiral Forbes positively
refused, and would have resigned sooner.  The Speaker would have had Byng expelled the House,
but his tigers were pitiful.  Sir Francis Dashwood tried to call for the court-martial's letter,
but the tigers were not so tender as that came to.  Some of the court-martial grew to feel
as the execution advanced: the city grew impatient for it.  Mr. Fox tried to represent the
new ministry as compassionate, and has damaged their popularity. Three of the court-martial
applied on Wednesday last to Lord Temple to renew their solicitation for mercy.  Sir Francis
Dashwood moved a repeal of the bloody twelfth article: the House was savage enough; yet Mr.
Doddington softened them, and not one man spoke directly against mercy.  They had nothing to
fear: the man,(767) who, of all defects, hates cowardice and avarice most, and who has some
little objection to a mob in St. James's street, has magnanimously forgot all the services
of the great Lord Torrington.  On Thursday seven of the court-martial applied for mercy: they
were rejected.  On Friday a most strange event happened.  I was told at the House that Captain
Keppel and Admiral Norris desired a bill to absolve them from their oath of secrecy, that they
might unfold something very material towards saving the prisoner's life.  I was out of Parliament
myself during my re-election, but I ran to Keppel; he said he had never spoken in public, and
could not, but would give authority to any body else.  The Speaker was putting the question
for the orders of the day, after which no motion could be made: it was Friday, the House would
not sit on Saturday, the execution was fixed for Monday. I felt all this in an instant, dragged
Mr. Keppel to Sir Francis Dashwood, and he on the floor before he had taken his place, called
out to the Speaker, and though the orders were passed, Sir Francis was suffered to speak. 
The House was wondrously softened: pains were taken to prove to Mr. Keppel that he might speak,
notwithstanding his oath; but he adhering to it, he had time given him till next morning to
consider and consult some of his brethren who had commissioned him to desire the bill.  The
next day the King sent a message to our House, that he had respited Mr. Byng for a fortnight,
till the bill could be passed, and he should know whether the Admiral was unjustly condemned.
The bill was read twice in our House that day, and went through the committee: mr. Keppel affirming
that he had something, in his opinion, of weight to tell, and which it was material his Majesty
should know, and naming four of his associates who desired to be empowered to speak.  On Sunday
all was confusion on news that the four disclaimed what Mr. Keppel had said for them.  On Monday
he told the House that in one he had been mistaken; that another did not declare off, but wished
all were to be compelled to speak; and from the two others he produced a letter upholding him
in what he had said.  The bill passed by 153 to 23.  On Tuesday it was treated very differently
by the Lords.  The new Chief Justice(768) and the late Chancellor(769) pleaded against Byng
like little attorneys, and did all they could to stifle truth. That all was a good deal.  They
prevailed to have the whole courtmartial at their bar.  Lord Hardwicke urged for the intervention
of a day, on the pretence of a trifling cause of an Irish bankruptcy then depending before
the Lords, though Lord Temple showed them that some of the captains and admirals Were under
sailing orders for America.  But Lord Hardwicke and Lord Anson were expeditious enough to do
what they wanted in one night's time: for the next day, yesterday, every one of the court-martial
defended their sentence, and even the three conscientious said not one syllable of their desire
of the bill, which was accordingly unanimously rejected, and with great marks of contempt for
the House of Commons.

This is as brief and as clear an abstract as I can give you of a most complicated affair, in
which I have been a most unfortunate actor, having to my infinite grief, which I shall feel
till the man is at peace, been instrumental in protracting his misery a fortnight, by what
I meant as the kindest thing I could do.  I never knew poor Byng enough to bow to; but the
great doubtfulness of his crime, and the extraordinariness of his sentence, the persecution
of his enemies, who sacrifice him for their own guilt and the rage of a blinded nation, have
called forth all my pity for him.  His enemies triumph, but who can envy the triumph of murder?

Nothing else material has happened, but Mr. Pitt's having moved for a German subsidy, which
is another matter of triumph to the late ministry.  He and Mr. Fox have the warmest altercations
every day in the House.

We have had a few French symptoms; papers were fixed on the Exchange, with these words, "Shoot
Byng, or take care of your King;" but this storm, which Lord Anson's creatures and protectors
have conjured up, may choose itself employment when Byng is dead.

Your last was of Jan. 29th, in which I thank you for what you say of my commissions: sure you
could not imagine that I thought you neglected them?  Adieu!

(767) The King.

(768) W. Murray, Lord Mansfield.

(769) Philip Yorke, Earl of Hardwicke.

367 Letter 214 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 17, 1757.

Admiral Byng's tragedy was completed on Monday-a perfect tragedy, for there were variety of
incidents, villany, murder, and a hero!  His sufferings, persecutions, aspersions, disturbances,
nay, the revolutions of his fate, had not in the least unhinged his mind; his whole behaviour
was natural and firm.  A few days before, one of his friends standing by him, said, "Which
of us is the tallest?" He replied, "Why this ceremony? I know what it means; let the man come
and measure me for my coffin."  He said, that being acquitted of cowardice, and being persuaded
on the coolest reflection that he had acted for the best, and should act so again, he was not
unwilling to suffer.  he desired to be shot on the quarter-deck, not where common malefactors
are; came out at twelve, sat down in a chair, for he would not kneel, and refused to have his
face covered, that his countenance might show whether he feared death; but being told that
it might frighten his executioners, he submitted, gave the signal at once, received one shot
through the head, another through the heart, and fell.  Do cowards live or die thus?  Can that
man want spirit who only fears to terrify his executioners?  Has the aspen Duke of Newcastle
lived thus? Would my Lord Hardwicke die thus, even supposing he had nothing on his conscience?

This scene is over! what will be the next is matter of great uncertainty.  The new ministers
are well weary of their situation; without credit at court, without influence in the House
of Commons, undermined every where, I believe they are too sensible not to desire to be delivered
of their burthen, which those who increase yet dread to take on themselves.  Mr. Pitt's health
is as bad as his situation: confidence between the other factions almost impossible; yet I
believe their impatience will prevail over their distrust.  The nation expects a change every
day, and being a nation, I believe, desires it; and being the English nation, will condemn
it the moment it is made.  We are trembling for Hanover, and the Duke is going to command the
army of observation.  These are the politics of the week; the diversions are balls, and the
two Princes frequent them; but the eldest nephew(770) remains shut up in a room, where, as
desirous as they are of keeping him, I believe he is now and then incommode.  The Duke of Richmond
has made two balls on his approaching wedding with Lady Mary Bruce, Mr. Conway's(771) daughter-in-law:
it is the perfectest match in the world; youth, beauty, riches, alliances, and all the blood
of all the kings from Robert Bruce to Charles the Second.  they are the prettiest couple in
England, except the father-in-law and mother.

As I write so often to you, you must be content with shorter letters, which, however, are always
as long as I can make them.  This summer will not contract our correspondence. Adieu! my dear Sir.

(770) George Prince of Wales, afterwards George III.

(771) Lady Mary Bruce was only daughter of Charles last Earl of Ailesbury, by his third wife,
Caroline, daughter of General John Campbell, afterwards Duke of Argyll. lady Ailesbury married
to her second husband, Colonel Henry Seymour Conway, only brother of Francis Earl of Hertford.

368 Letter 215 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 7, 1757.

You will receive letters by this post that will surprise you; I will try to give you a comment
to them; an exact explication I don't know who could give you.  You will receive the orders
of' a new master, Lord Egremont.  I was going on to say that the ministry is again changed,
but I cannot say Changed, it is only dismissed--and here is another inter-ministerium.

The King has never borne Lord Temple,(772) and soon grew displeased with Mr. Pitt: on Byng's
affair it came to aversion.  It is now given out that both I have mentioned have personally
affronted the King.  On the execution, he would not suffer Dr. Hay of the admiralty to be brought
into Parliament, though he had lost his seat on coming into his service. During this squabble
negotiations were set on foot between the Duke of Newcastle and Mr. Fox, and would have been
concluded if either of them would have risked being hanged for the other.  The one most afraid
broke off the treaty; need I say it was the Duke?(773 While this was in agitation, it grew
necessary for the Duke(774) to go abroad and take the command of the army of observation. 
He did not care to be checked there by a hostile ministry at home: his father was as unwilling
to be left in their hands.  The drum was beat for forces; none would list.  However, the change
must be made, The day before yesterday Lord Temple was dismissed, with all his admiralty but
Boscawen, who was of the former, and with an offer to Mr. Elliot to stay, which he has declined.
The new admirals are Lord Winchelsea, Rowley again, Moyston, Lord Carysfort, Mr. Sandys, and
young Hamilton of the board of trade.(775)  It was hoped that this disgrace would drive Mr.
Pitt and the rest of his friends to resign--for that very reason they would not.  The time
pressed; to-day was fixed for the Duke's departure, and for the recess of Parliament during
the holidays.  Mr. Pitt was dismissed, and Lord Egremont has received the seals to-day.  Mr.
Fox has always adhered to being only paymaster; but the impossibility of finding a chancellor
of the exchequer, which Lord Duplin of the Newcastle faction, and Doddington of Mr. Fox's,
have refused, has, I think, forced Mr. Fox to resolve to take that post himself.  However,
that and every thing else is unsettled, and Mr. Fox is to take nothing till the Inquiries are
over.  The Duke of Devonshire remains in the treasury, declaring that it is only for a short
time, and till they can fix on somebody else.  The Duke of Newcastle keeps aloof, professing
no connexion with Mr. Pitt; Lord Hardwicke is gone into the country for a fortnight.  The stocks
fall, the foreign ministers stare; Leicester-house is going to be very angry, and I fear we
are going into great confusion.  As I wish Mr. Fox so well, I cannot but lament the undigested
rashness of this measure.

Having lost three packet-boats lately, I fear I have missed a letter or two of yours: I hope
this will have better fortune; for, almost unintelligible, as it is, you will want even so
awkward a key.

Mr. Fox was very desirous of bargaining for a peerage for Lady Caroline; the King has positively
refused it, but has given him the reversion for three lives of clerk of the pelts in Ireland,
which Doddington has now.  Mr. Conway is made groom of the bedchamber to the King.

A volume on all I have told you would only perplex you more; you will have time to study what
I send you now.  I go to Strawberry Hill to-morrow for the holidays; and till they are over,
certainly nothing more will be done.  You did not expect this new confusion, just when you
was preparing to tremble for the campaign.  Adieu!

(772) "To Lord Temple," says Lord Waldegrave, "the King had the strongest aversion, his lordship
having a pert familiarity, which is not always agreeable to his Majesty. besides, in the affair
of admiral Byng, he had used some insolent expressions, which his Majesty could never forgive.
Pitt, he said, made him long speeches, which probably might be very fine, but were greatly
beyond his comprehension, and that his letters were affected, formal, and pedantic; but as
to Temple, he was so disagreeable a fellow, there was no bearing him." Memoirs, p. 93.-E.

(773) "I told his Majesty, that the Duke of Newcastle was quite doubtful what part he should
take, being equally balanced by fear on the one side and love of power on the other.  To this
the King replied, 'I know he is apt to be afraid, therefore go and encourage him; tell him
I do not look upon myself as king whilst I am in the hands of these scoundrels; that I am determined
to get rid of them at any rate; that I expect his assistance, and that he may depend on my
favour and protection.'" Waldegrave, p. 96.-E.

(774) The Duke of Cumberland.

(775) The new admiralty actually consisted of the following:-- Lord Winchilsea, Admiral Sir
W. Rowley, K. B., Hon. Edward Boscawen, Gilbert Elliott, Esq., John Proby, first lord Carysfort,
Savage Mostyn, Esq., and the Hon. Edward Sandys, afterwards second lord Sandys.-D.

370 Letter 216 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 20, 1757.

You will wonder that I should so long have announced my lord Egremont to you for a master,
without his announcing himself  to you.--it was no fault of mine; every thing here is a riddle
or an absurdity.  Instead of coming forth secretary of state,  he went out of town, declaring
he knew nothing of the matter.   On that, it was affirmed that he had refused the seals.  The
truth is, they have never been offered to him in form.  He had  been sounded, and I believe
was not averse, but made excuses  that were not thought invincible.  As we are in profound
peace  with all the world, and can do without any government, it is  thought proper to wait
a little, till what are called the  Inquiries are over;(776) what they are, I will tell you
presently.  A man(777) who has hated and loved the Duke of Newcastle pretty heartily in the
course of some years, is Willing to wait, in hopes of prevailing on him to resume the seals--that
Duke is the arbiter of England! Both the other parties are trying to unite with him.  The King
pulls him, the next reign (for you know his grace is very young) pulls him back.  Present power
tempts: Mr. Fox's unpopularity terrifies- -he will reconcile all, with immediate duty to the
King, with  a salvo to the intention of betraying him to the Prince, to  make his peace with
the latter, as soon as he has made up with  the former.  Unless his grace takes Mr. Fox by
the hand, the  latter is in an ugly situation--if he does, is he in a beautiful one?

