Friday.--"It's the smiles of its AUGUSTUS and the heat of its July"--adapted quotation from
"Old Song." "I cannot sing the old song"--except under a sense of the deepest and most unpardonable
provocation; and when I do!!--Cave canem, ruat coelum! I bring down the house as Madame DELILAH's
SAMSON did. To-night Manon is indeed warmly welcomed. "A nice Opera," says a young lady, fanning
herself. "I wish it were an iced Opera," groans WAGSTAFF, re-issuing one of his earliest side-splitters.
M. VAN DYCK strong as the weak Des Grieux, but Madame MRAVINA apparently not strong enough.
"What made author-chap think of calling her Manon?" asks languid person in Stalls. WAGSTAFF,
revived after an iced B.-and-S., is equal to the occasion. "Such a bad lot, you know--regular
man-catcher; hooked a man on, then, when he was done with, hooked another man on. Reason for
name evident, see?" The Cavalleria Rusticana is the favourite for Derby Night. All right up
to now, Sir DRURIOLANUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TENNER SONG FOR DERBY DAY.--"He's got it on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A VERY "DARK HORSE."

    ["The Country knows ... what it is we desire to do. What the
    Right Hon. Gentleman (Mr. GLADSTONE) desires to do no human
    being knows. If we have done our part, as we have done, to
    clear the issues, all we can ask him is to do his part, to
    lay before the electorate of this country in the same plain,
    unmistakable outline, the policy which he desires to see
    adopted."--Mr. Balfour on Second Reading of Irish Local
    Government Bill.]

    SCENE--The Paddock, before the Great Race. Rising Young
    Jockey, ARTHUR BALFOUR, mounted on the Crack Irish Horse.
    Enter Grand Old Jockey, at the moment minus a mount.

Grand Old Jockey (aside). Humph! Don't look so bad, now, despite
          the dead set
    That against him we've made since his very first running,
  Do they mean him to win after all? Artful set,
    That Stable! It strikes me they've been playing cunning.
  One wouldn't have backed him, first off, for a bob.
    His owner concerning him scarcely seemed caring.
  Eugh! No one supposed he was fair "on the job";
    A mere trial-horse, simply "out for an airing."
  When he first stripped in public he looked such a screw,
    He was hailed with a general chorus of laughter;
  Young BAL seemed abashed at the general yahboo!
    And pooh-poohed his new mount! What the doose is he after?
  I'm bound to admit the Horse looks pretty fit,
    And the boy sits him well, and as though he meant trying.
  I say, this won't do! I must bounce him a bit.
    Most awkward, you know, if his "slug" takes to flying!

Rising Young Jockey (aside). Hillo! There's Old WILLIAM! He's out
          on the scoot.
    The artful Old Hand! Hope he'll like what he looks on!
  He slated this nag as a peacocky brute,
    Whose utter collapse they've been building their books on.
  How now, my spry veteran? Only a boy
    On a three-legged crock? Well, I own you are older,
  And watching your riding's a thing to enjoy;
    There isn't a Jock who is defter and bolder;
  Your power, authority, eloquence--yes,
    For your gift of the gab is a caution--are splendid;
  But--the youngster may teach you a lesson, I guess,
    As to judgment of pace ere the contest is ended.

Grand Old Jockey (aloud). Well, ARTHUR my lad, in the saddle
          again!
    Is that your crack mount?

Rising Young Jockey. The identical one, WILL.

Grand Old Jockey. Dear, dear, what a pity! It quite gives me pain
    To see you so wasted.

Rising Young Jockey. That's only your fun, WILL.

