Transcriber's note: on page 399, "Yule College" in the original is corrected to "Yale College".

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 208.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22.                 386

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--The Ligurian Sage
  --Gresebrok in Yorkshire--Stillingfleet's Library--
  The whole System of Law--Saint Malachy on the
  Popes--Work on the Human Figure                           389

  REPLIES:--

  "Namby Pamby," and other Words of the same Form           390
  Earl of Oxford                                            392
  Picts' Houses                                             392
  Pronunciation of "Humble"                                 393
  School Libraries                                          395

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Albumenized Paper
  --Cement for Glass Baths--New Process for Positive
  Proofs                                                    395

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--The Groaning Elmplank
  in Dublin--Passage in Whiston--"When
  Orpheus went down"--Foreign Medical Education
  --"Short red, good red"--Collar of SS.--Who first
  thought of Table-turning--Passage of Thucydides on
  the Greek Factions--Origin of "Clipper" as applied
  to Vessels--Passage in Tennyson--Huet's Navigations
  of Solomon--Sincere--The Saltpetre Man--
  Major André--Longevity--Passage in Virgil--Love
  Charm from a Foal's Forehead--Wardhouse, where
  was?--Divining Rod--Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle--
  Pagoda                                                    397

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                              401
  Notices to Correspondents                                 401
  Advertisements                                            402

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

A PROPHET.

What a curious book would be "Our Prophets and Enthusiasts!" The literary and biographical
records of the vaticinators, and the heated spirits who, after working upon the fears of the
timid, and exciting the imaginations of the weak, have flitted into oblivion! As a specimen
of the odd characters such a work would embrace, allow me to introduce to your readers Thomas
Newans, a Shropshire farmer, who unhappily took it into his head that his visit to the lower
sphere was on a special mission.

Mr. Newans is the author of a book entitled A Key to the Prophecies of the Old and New Testament;
showing (among other impending events) "The approaching Invasion of England;" "The Extirpation
of Popery and Mahometisme;" "The Restoration of the Jews," and "The Millennium." London: printed
for the Author (who attests the genuineness of my copy by his signature), 1747.

In this misfitted key he relates how, in a vision, he was invested with the prophetic mantle:

    "In the year 1723, in the night," says Mr. Newans, "I fell into a
    dream, and seemed to be riding on the road into the county of Cheshire.
    When I was got about eight miles from home, my horse made a stop on the
    road; and it seemed a dark night, and on a sudden there shone a light
    before me on the ground, which was as bright as when the sun shines at
    noon-day. In the middle of that bright circle stood a child in white.
    It spoke, and told me that I must go into Cheshire, and I should find a
    man with uncommon marks upon his feet, which should be a warning to me
    to believe; and that the year after I should have a cow that would
    calve a calf with his heart growing out of his body in a wonderful
    manner, as a token of what should come to pass; and that a terrible war
    would break out in Europe, and in fourteen years after the token it
    would extend to England."

In compliance with his supernatural communication, our farmer proceeded to Cheshire, where
he found the man indicated; and, a year after, his own farm stock was increased by the birth
of a calf with his heart growing out. And after taking his family, of seven, to witness to
the truth of {382} what he describes, he adds with great simplicity: "So then I rode to London
to acquaint the ministers of state of the approaching danger!"

This story of the calf with the heart growing out, is not a bad type of the worthy grazier
himself, and his hearty and burning zeal for the Protestant faith. Mr. Newans distinctly and
repeatedly predicts that these "two beastly religions," i. e. the Popish and Mahomedan, will
be totally extirpated within seven years! And "I have," says he, "for almost twenty years past,
travelled to London and back again into the country, near fifty journies, and every journey
was two hundred and fifty miles, to acquaint the ministers of state and several of the bishops,
and other divines, with the certainty, danger, and manner of the war" which was to bring this
about. Commenting on the story of Balaam, our prophet says: "And now the world is grown so
full of sin and wickedness, that if a dumb ass should speak with a man's voice, they would
scarce repent:" and I conclude that the said statesmen and divines did not estimate these prophetic
warnings much higher than the brayings of that quadruped which they turned out to be. Mr. Newan
professes to gave penned these vaticinations in the year 1744, twenty-one years after the date
of his vision; so that he had ample time to mature them. What would the farmer say were he
favoured with a peep at our world in 1853, with its Mussulman system unbroken; and its cardinal,
archbishops, and Popish bishops firmly established in the very heart of Protestant England?

J. O.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Folk Lore in Cambridgeshire.--About twenty years ago, at Hildersham, there was a custom of
ringing the church bell at five o'clock in the leasing season. The cottagers then repaired
to the fields to glean; but none went out before the bell was rung. The bell tolled again in
the evening as a signal for all to return home. I would add a Query, Is this custom continued;
and is it to be met with in any other place?

F. M. MIDDLETON.

New Brunswick Folk Lore:--Common Notions respecting Teeth.--Among the lower orders and negroes,
and also among young children of respectable parents (who have probably derived the notion
from contact with the others as nurses or servants), it is here very commonly held that when
a tooth is drawn, if you refrain from thrusting the tongue in the cavity, the second tooth
will be golden. Does this idea prevail in England?

Superstition respecting Bridges.--Many years ago my grandfather had quite a household of blacks,
some of whom were slaves and some free. Being bred in his family, a large portion of my early
days was thus passed among them, and I have often reverted to the weird superstitions with
which they froze themselves and alarmed me. Most of these had allusion to the devil: scarcely
one of them that I now recollect but referred to him. Among others they firmly held that when
the clock struck twelve at midnight, the devil and a select company of his inferiors regularly
came upon that part of the bridge called "the draw," and danced a hornpipe there. So firmly
did they hold to this belief, that no threat nor persuasion could induce the stoutest-hearted
of them to cross the fatal draw after ten o'clock at night. This belief is quite contrary to
that which prevails in Scotland, according to which, Robin Burns being my authority, "neither
witches nor any evil spirits have power to follow a poor wight any farther than the middle
of the next running stream."[1]

C. D. D.

New Brunswick, New Jersey. They all belong to North Lincolnshire.

1. Death sign. If a swarm of bees alight on a dead tree, or on the dead bough of a living tree,
there will be a death in the family of the owner during the year.

2. If you do not throw salt into the fire before you begin to churn, the butter will not come.

3. If eggs are brought over running water they will have no chicks in them.

4. It is unlucky to bring eggs into the house after sunset.

5. If you wear a snake's skin round your head you will never have the headache.

6. Persons called Agnes always go mad.

7. A person who is born on Christmas Day will be able to see spirits.

8. Never burn egg-shells; if you do, the hens cease to lay.

9. If a pigeon is seen sitting in a tree, or comes into the house, or from being wild suddenly
becomes tame, it is a sign of death.

10. When you see a magpie you should cross yourself; if you do not you will be unlucky.

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors.

Portuguese Folk Lore.--

    "The borderer whispered in my ear that he was one of the dreadful
    Lobishomens, a devoted race, held in mingled horror and commiseration,
    and never mentioned {383} without by the Portuguese peasantry. They
    believe that if a woman be delivered of seven male infants
    successively, the seventh, by an inexplicable fatality, becomes subject
    to the powers of darkness; and is compelled, on every Saturday evening,
    to assume the likeness of an ass. So changed, and followed by a horrid
    train of dogs, he is forced to run an impious race over the moors and
    through the villages; nor is allowed an interval of rest until the
    dawning Sabbath terminates his sufferings, and restores him to his
    human shape."--From Lord Carnarvon's Portugal and Gallicia, vol. ii.
    p. 268.

E. H. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPE AND COWPER.

In Cowper's letter to Lady Hesketh, dated January 18, 1787, occurs a notice for the first time
of Mr. Samuel Rose, with whom Cowper subsequently corresponded. He informs Lady Hesketh that--

    "A young gentleman called here yesterday, who came six miles out of his
    way to see me. He was on a journey to London from Glasgow, having just
    left the University there. He came, I suppose, partly to satisfy his
    own curiosity, but chiefly, as it seemed, to bring me the thanks of
    some of the Scotch professors for my two volumes. His name is Rose, an
    Englishman."

Prefixed to a copy of Hayley's Life and Letters of William Cowper, Esq., in the British Museum,
is an extract in MS. of a letter from the late Samuel Rose, Esq., to his favourite sister,
Miss Harriet Rose, written in the year before his marriage, at the age of twenty-two, and which,
I believe, has never been printed. It may, perhaps, merit a corner of "N. & Q."

    "Weston Lodge, Sept. 9, 1789.

    "Last week Mr. Cowper finished the Odyssey, and we drank an
    unreluctant bumper to its success. The labour of translation is now at
    an end, and the less arduous work of revision remains to be done, and
    then we shall see it published. I promise both you and myself much
    pleasure from its perusal. You will most probably find it at first less
    pleasing than Pope's versification, owing to the difference subsisting
    between blank verse and rhyme--a difference which is not sufficiently
    attended to, and whereby people are led into injudicious comparisons.
    You will find Mr. Pope more refined: Mr. Cowper more simple, grand, and
    majestic; and, indeed, insomuch as Mr. Pope is more refined than Mr.
    Cowper, he is more refined than his original, and in the same
    proportion departs from Homer himself. Pope's must universally be
    allowed to be a beautiful poem: Mr. Cowper's will be found a striking
    and a faithful portrait, and a pleasing picture to those who enjoy his
    style of colouring, which I am apprehensive is not so generally
    acceptable as the other master's. Pope possesses the gentle and amiable
    graces of a Guido: Cowper is endowed with the bold sublime genius of a
    Raphael. After having said so much upon their comparative merits,
    enough, I hope, to refute your second assertion which was, that women,
    in the opinion of men, have little to do with literature. I may inform
    you, that the Iliad is to be dedicated to Earl Cowper, and the
    Odyssey to the Dowager Lady Spencer but this information need not be
    extensively circulated."

J. YEOWELL.

50. Burton Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

"As You Like It."--Believing that whatever illustrates, even to a trifling extent, the great
dramatic poet of England will interest the readers of "N. & Q.," I solicit their attention
to the resemblance between the two following passages:

                  "All the world's a stage,
  And all the men and women merely players."

  "Si rectè aspicias, vita hæc est fabula quædam.
  Scena autem, mundus versatilis: histrio et actor
  Quilibet est hominum--mortales nam propriè cuncti
  Sunt personati, et falsâ sub imagine, vulgi
  Præstringunt oculos: ita Diis, risumque jocumque,
  Stultitiis, nugisque suis per sæcula præbent.
      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
  "Jam mala quæ humanum patitur genus, adnumerabo.
  Principiò postquam è latebris malè olentibus alvi
  Eductus tandem est, materno sanguine foedus,
  Vagit, et auspicio lacrymarum nascitur infans.
      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
  "Vix natus jam vincla subit, tenerosque coërcet
  Fascia longa artus: præsagia dire futuri
  Servitii.
      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
  "Post ubi jam valido se poplite sustinet, et jam
  Ritè loqui didicit, tunc servire incipit, atque
  Jussa pati, sentitque minas ictusque magistri,
  Sæpe patris matrisque manu fratrisque frequenter
  Pulsatur: facient quid vitricus atque noverca?
  Fit juvenis, crescunt vires: jam spernit habenas,
  Occluditque aures monitis, furere incipit, ardens
  Luxuriâ atque irâ: et temerarius omnia nullo
  Consilio aggreditur, dictis melioribus obstat,
  Deteriora fovens: non ulla pericula curat,
  Dummodo id efficiat, suadet quod coeca libido.
      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
  "Succedit gravior, melior, prudentior ætas,
  Cumque ipsâ curæ adveniunt, durique labores;
  Tune homo mille modis, studioque enititur omni
  Rem facere, et nunquam sibi multa negotia desunt.
  Nunc peregrè it, nunc ille domi, nunc rure laborat,
  Ut sese, uxorem, natos, famulosque gubernet,
  Ac servet, solus pro cunctis sollicitus, nec
  Jucundis fruitur dapibus, nec nocte quietâ.
  Ambitio hunc etiam impellens, ad publica mittit
  Munia: dumque inhiat vano malè sanus honori,
  Invidiæ atque odii patitur mala plurima: deinceps
  Obrepit canis rugosa senecta capillis,
  Secum multa trahens incommoda corporis atque
  Mentis: nam vires abeunt, speciesque colorque,
  Nec non deficiunt sensus: audire, videre
  {384}
  Languescunt, gustusque minor fit: denique semper
  Aut hoc, aut illo morbo vexantur--inermi
  Manduntur vix ore cibi, vix crura bacillo
  Sustentata meant: animus quoque vulnera sentit.
  Desipit, et longo torpet confectus ab ævo."

It would have only occupied your space needlessly, to have transcribed at length the celebrated
description of the seven ages of human life from Shakspeare's As You Like It; but I would solicit
the attention of your readers to the Latin verses, and then to the question, Whether either
poet has borrowed from the other? and, should this be decided affirmatively, the farther question
would arise, Which is the original?

ARTERUS.

Dublin.

    [These lines look like a modern paraphrase of Shakspeare; and our
    Correspondent has not informed us from what book he has transcribed
    them.--Ed.]

Passage in "King John" and "Romeo and Juliet."--I am neither a commentator nor a reader of
commentators on Shakspeare. When I meet with a difficulty, I get over it as well as I can,
and think no more of the matter. Having, however, accidentally seen two passages of Shakspeare
much ventilated in "N. & Q.," I venture to give my poor conjectures respecting them.

1. King John.--

  "It lies as sightly on the back of him,
  As great Alcides' shows upon an ass."

I consider shows to be the true reading; the reference being to the ancient mysteries, called
also shows. The machinery required for the celebration of the mysteries was carried by asses.
Hence the proverb: "Asinus portat mysteriæ." The connexion of Hercules--"great Alcides"--with
the mysteries, may be learned from Aristophanes and many other ancient writers. And thus the
meaning of the passage seems to be: The lion's skin, which once belonged to Richard of the
Lion Heart, is as sightly on the back of Austria, as were the mysteries of Hercules upon an ass.

2. Romeo and Juliet.--

  "That runaways eyes may wink."

Here I would retain the reading, and interpret runaways as signifying "persons going about
on the watch." Perhaps runagates, according to modern usage, would come nearer to the proposed
signification, but not to be quite up with it. Many words in Shakspeare have significations
very remote from those which they now bear.

PATRICK MUIRSON.

Shakspeare and the Bible.--Has it ever been noticed that the following passage from the Second
Part of Henry IV., Act I. Sc. 3., is taken from the fourteenth chapter of St. Luke's Gospel?

  "What do we then, but draw anew the model
  In fewer offices; or, at least, desist
  To build at all? Much more, in this great work,
  (Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down,
  And set another up) should we survey
  The plot, the situation, and the model;
  Consult upon a sure foundation,
  Question surveyors, know our own estate,
  How able such a work to undergo.
  A careful leader sums what force he brings
  To weigh against his opposite; or else
  We fortify on paper, and in figures,
  Using the names of men, instead of men:
  Like one that draws the model of a house
  Beyond his power to build it."

The passage in St. Luke is as follows (xiv.

I give the passage as altered by Mr. Collier's Emendator, because I think the line added by him,

    "A careful leader sums what force he brings,"

is strongly corroborated by the Scripture text.

Q. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Judicial Families.--In vol. v. p. 206. (new edition) of Lord Mahon's History of England, we
find the following passage:

    "Lord Chancellor Camden was the younger son of Chief Justice Pratt,--a
    case of rare succession in the annals of the law, and not easily
    matched, unless by their own cotemporaries, Lord Hardwicke and Charles
    Yorke."

The following case, I think, is equally, if not more, remarkable:--

The Right Hon. Thomas Berry Cusack-Smith, brother of the present Sir Michael Cusack-Smith,
Bart., is Master of the Rolls in Ireland, having been appointed to that high office in January,
1846. His father, Sir William Cusack-Smith, second baronet, was for many years Baron of the
Court of Exchequer in Ireland. And his grandfather, the Right Hon. Sir Michael Smith, first
baronet, was, like his grandson at the present day, Master of the Rolls in Ireland.

Is not this "a case of rare succession in the annals of the law, and not easily matched?"

ABHBA.

{385}

Derivation of "Topsy Turvy."--When things are in confusion they are generally said to be turned
"topsy turvy." The expression is derived from a way in which turf for fuel is placed to dry
on its being cut. The surface of the ground is pared off with the heath growing on it, and
the heath is turned downward, and left some days in that state that the earth may get dry before
it is carried away. It means then top-side-turf-way.

CLERICUS RUSTICUS.

Dictionaries and Encyclopædias.--Allow me to offer a suggestion to the publishers and compilers
of dictionaries; first as to dictionaries of the language. A large class refer to these only
to learn the meaning of words not familiar to them, but which may occur in reading. If the
dictionaries are framed on the principle of displaying only the classical language of England,
it is ten to one they will not supply the desired information. Let there be, besides classical
dictionaries, glossaries which will exclude no word whatever on account of rarity, vulgarity,
or technicality, but which may very well exclude those which are most familiar. As to encyclopædias,
their value is chiefly as supplements to the library; but surely no one studies anatomy, or
the differential calculus, or architecture, in them, however good the treatises may be. I want
a dictionary of miscellaneous subjects, such as find place more easily in an encyclopædia than
anywhere else; but why must I also purchase treatises on the higher mathematics, on navigation,
on practical engineering, and the like, some of which I already may possess, others not want,
and none of which are a bit the more convenient because arranged in alphabetical order in great
volumes. Besides, they cannot be conveniently replaced by improved editions.

ENCYCLOPÆDICUS.

"Mary, weep no more for me."--There is a well-known ballad of this name, said to have been
written by a Scotchman named "Low."

I find, however, amongst my papers, a fragment of a version of this same ballad, of, I assume,
earlier antiquity, which so surpasses Low's ballad that the author has little to thank him
for his interference.

No poetical reader will require his attention to be directed to the immeasurable superiority
of this glorious verse: the high poetic animation, the eagles' visits, the lovely looks of
female beauty, the exhilarating gladness and joy affecting the beholder, all manifest the genius
of the master bard. I shall receive it as a favour if any of your correspondents will furnish
a complete copy of the original poem, and contrast it with what "Low" fancied his "improvements."

JAMES CORNISH.

[Footnote 2: Build.]

Epitaph at Wood Ditton.--You have recently appropriated a small space in your "medium of intercommunication"
to the subject of epitaphs. I can furnish you with one which I have been accustomed to regard
as a "grand climacterical absurdity." About thirty years ago, when making a short summer ramble,
I entered the churchyard of Wood Ditton, near Newmarket, and my attention was attracted by
a headstone, having inlaid into its upper part a piece of iron, measuring about ten inches
by six, and hollowed out into the shape of a dish. I inquired of a cottager residing on the
spot what the thing meant? I was informed that the party whose ashes the grave covered was
a man who, during a long life, had a strange taste for sopping a slice of bread in a dripping-pan
(a pan over which meat has been roasted), and would relinquish for this all kinds of dishes,
sweet or savoury; that in his will he left a request that a dripping-pan should be fixed in
his gravestone; that he wrote his own epitaph, an exact copy of which I herewith give you,
and which he requested to be engraved on the stone:

  "Here lies my corpse, who was the man
  That loved a sop in the dripping-pan;
  But now believe me I am dead,--
  See here the pan stands at my head.
  Still for sops till the last I cried,
  But could not eat, and so I died.
  My neighbours they perhaps will laugh,
  When they read my epitaph."

J. H.

Cambridge.

Pictorial Pun.--In the village of Warbleton, in Sussex, there is an old public-house, which
has for its sign a War Bill in a tun of beer, in reference of course to the name of the place.
It has, however, the double meaning, of "Axe for Beer."

R. W. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

SIR THOMAS BUTTON'S VOYAGE, 1612.

I am about to print some information, hitherto I believe totally unknown, relative to the voyage
of Sir Thomas Button in 1612, for the discovery of the north-west passage.

Of this voyage a journal was kept, which was in existence many years afterwards, being offered
by {386} its author to Secretary Dorchester in 1629, then engaged in forwarding the projected
voyage of "North-West" Foxe; it is remarkable, however, that no extended account of this voyage,
so important in its objects, has ever been published. I am desirous of knowing if this journal
is in existence, and where? Also, Lord Dorchester's letter to Button in February, 1629; of
any farther information on the subject of the voyage, or of Sir Thomas Button.

What I possess already are, 1. "Motiues inducing a Proiect for the Discouerie of the North
Pole terrestriall; the streights of Anian, into the South Sea, and Coasts thereof," anno 1610.
2. Prince Henry's Instructions for the Voyage, together with King James's Letters of Credence,
1612. 3. A Letter from Sir Thomas Button to Secretary Dorchester, dated Cardiff, 16th Feb.,
1629 (from the State Paper Office). 4. Sir Dudley Digges' little tract on the N.-W. Passage,
written to promote the voyage, and of which there were two distinct impressions in 1611 and
1612. 5. Extracts from the Carleton Correspondence, and from the Hakluyt Society's volume on
Voyages to the North-West.

I shall be glad also to learn the date, and any other facts connected with the death of John
Davis, the discoverer of the Straits bearing his name.

JOHN PETHERAM.

94. High Holborn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

The Words "Cash" and "Mob."--In Moore's Diary I find the following remark. Can any of your
numerous readers throw any light on the subject?

    "Lord Holland doubted whether the word 'Cash' was a legitimate English
    word, though, as Irving remarked, it is as old as Ben Jonson, there
    being a character called Cash in one of his comedies. Lord Holland said
    Mr. Fox was of opinion that the word 'Mob' was not genuine
    English."--Moore's Diary, vol. iii. p. 247.

CLERICUS RUSTICUS.

"History of Jesus Christ."--G. L. S. will feel obliged by any correspondent of "N. & Q." stating
who is the author of the following work?--

    "The History of the Incarnation, Life, Doctrine and Miracles, the
    Death, Resurrection, and Ascension of Our Blessed Lord and Saviour,
    Jesus Christ. In Seven Books; illustrated with Notes, and interspersed
    with Dissertations, theological, historical, geographical and critical.

    "To which are added the Lives, Actions, and Sufferings of the Twelve
    Apostles; also of Saint Paul, Saint Mark, Saint Luke, and Saint
    Barnabas. Together with a Chronological Table from the beginning of the
    reign of Herod the Great to the end of the Apostolic Age. By a Divine
    of the Church of England.

    "London: printed for T. Cooper, at the Globe, in Paternoster Row,
    1737."

This work is in one folio volume, and all I can ascertain of its authorship is that it was
not written by Bishop Gibson, of "Preservative" fame.

Quantity of the Latin Termination -anus.--Proper names having the termination -anus are always
long in Latin and short in Greek; thus, the Claudi[=a]nus, Luci[=a]nus, &c. of the Latins are
[Greek: Klaudianos] and [Greek: Loukianos] in Greek. What is to be said of the word [Greek:
Christianos]? Is it long or short, admitting it to be long in the Latin tongue?

While on the subject of quantities, let me ask, where is the authority for that of the name
of the queen of the Ethiopians, Candace, to be found? We always pronounce it long, but all
books of authority mark it as short.

ANTI-BARBARUS.

Webb and Walker Families.--Perhaps you or some of your numerous readers could inform me if
the Christian names of Daniel and Roger were used 160 or 180 years ago by any of the numerous
families of Webb or Webbe, resident in Wilts or elsewhere; and if so, in what family of that
name? And is there any pedigree of them extant? and where is it to be found?

Was the Rev. Geo. Walker, the defender of Derry, connected with the Webbs? and if so, how,
and with what family?

Is there any Webb mentioned in history at the siege of Derry? and if so, to what family of
that name did he belong?

GULIELMUS.

Cawdrey's "Treasure of Similes."--I stumbled lately at a book-stall on a very curious old book
entitled A Treasurie or Store-house of Similes both pleasant, delightfull, and profitable.
The title-page is gone; but in an old hand on the cover it is stated to have been written by
a certain "Cawdrey," and to have been printed in 1609, where I cannot discover. Can any of
your correspondents oblige me with some information concerning him? The book is marked "scarce."

J. H. S.

Point of Etiquette.--Will some of your numerous correspondents kindly inform me as to the rule
in such a case as the following: when an elder brother has lost both his daughters in his old
age, does the eldest daughter of the younger brother take the style of Miss Smith, Jones, Brown,
or Robinson, as the case may be?

F. D., M.R.C.S.

Napoleon's Spelling.--Macaulay, in his History of England, chap. vii., quotes, in a foot-note,
a passage from a letter of William III., written in French to his ambassador at Paris, and
then makes this remark, "The spelling is bad, but not worse than Napoleon's." {387}

Can you refer me to some authentic proof of the fact that Napoleon was unable to spell correctly?
It is well known that he affected to put his thoughts upon paper with great rapidity; and the
consequence of this practice was, that in almost every word some letters were dropped, or their
places indicated by dashes. But this was only one of those numerous contrivances, to which
he was in the habit of resorting, in order to impress those around him with an idea of his
greatness.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

Trench on Proverbs.--Mr. Trench, in this excellent little work, states that the usual translation
of Psalm cxxvii. 2. is incorrect:

    "Let me remind you of such [proverbs] also as the following, often
    quoted or alluded to by Greek and Latin authors: The net of the
    sleeping (fisherman) takes[3]; a proverb the more interesting, that we
    have in the words of the Psalmist (Ps. cxxvii. 2.), were they
    accurately translated, a beautiful and perfect parallel; 'He giveth his
    beloved' (not 'sleep,' but) 'in their sleep;' his gifts gliding into
    their bosoms, they knowing not how, and as little expecting as leaving
    laboured for them."

The Hebrew is [Hebrew: YTN LYDYDW SHN'], the literal translation of which, "He giveth (or,
He will give) to his beloved sleep," seems to me to be correct.

As Mr. Trench is a reader of "N. & Q.," perhaps he would have the kindness to mention in its
pages the ground he has for his proposed translation.

E. M. B.

[Footnote 3: "[Greek: Heudonti kurtos hairei]. Dormienti rete trahit."]

Rings formerly worn by Ecclesiastics.--In describing the finger-ring found in the grave of
the Venerable Bede, the writer of A brief Account of Durham Cathedral adds,--

    "No priest, during the reign of Catholicity, was buried or enshrined
    without his ring."--P. 81.

I have seen a similar statement elsewhere, and wish to ask, 1st, Were priests formerly buried
with the ring? 2ndly, If so, was it a mere custom, or was it ordered or authorised by any rubric
or canon of our old English Church?

I am very strongly of opinion that such never was the custom, and that the statement above
quoted has its origin in the confounding priests with bishops. Martene says, when speaking
of the manner of burying bishops,--

    "Episcopus debet habere annulum, quia sponsus est. Cæteri sacerdotes
    non, quia sponsi non sunt, sed amici sponsi vel vicarii."--De Antiquis
    Ecclesiæ Ritibus, lib. III. cap. xii. n. 11.

CEYREP.

Butler's "Lives of the Saints."--Can any of your correspondents supply a correct list of the
various editions of this popular work? The notices in Watt and Lowndes are very unsatisfactory.

J. YEOWELL.

Marriage of Cousins.--It was asserted to me the other day that marriage with a second cousin
is, by the laws of England, illegal, and that succession to property has been lately barred
to the issue of such marriage, though the union of first cousins entails no such consequences.
Is there any foundation for this statement?

J. P.

Castle Thorpe[4], Bucks.--A traditional rhyme is current at this place which says that--

  "If it hadn't been for Cobb-bush Hill,
  Thorpe Castle would have stood there still."

or the last line, according to another version,--

  "There would have been a castle at Thorpe still."

Now it appears from Lipscomb's History of the county, that the castle was demolished by Fulke
de Brent about 1215; how then can this tradition be explained?

Cobb-bush Hill, I am told, is more than half a mile from the village.

H. THOS. WAKE.

[Footnote 4: Pronounced Thrup.]

Where was Edward II. killed?--Hume and Lingard state that this monarch was murdered at Berkeley
Castle. Echard and Rapin are silent, both as to the event and as to the locality. But an earlier
authority, viz. Martyn, in his Historie and Lives of Twentie Kings, 1615, says:

    "He was committed to the Castle of Killingworth, and Prince Edward was
    crowned king. And not long after, the king being removed to the Castle
    of Corff, was wickedly assayled by his keepers, who, through a horne
    which they put in his," &c.

What authority had Martyn for these statements?

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Encore.--Perhaps some correspondent of "N. & Q." can assign a reason why we use this French
word in our theatres and concert rooms, to express our desire for the repetition of favourite
songs, &c. I should also like to know at what period it was introduced.

A. A.

Amcotts' Pedigree.--Can any of your correspondents supply me with a full pedigree of Amcotts
of Astrop, co. Lincolnshire? I do not refer to the Visitations, but to the later descents of
the family. The last heir male was, I believe, Vincent Amcotts, Esq., great-grandfather to
the present Sir William Amcotts Ingilby, Bart. Elizabeth Amcotts, who married, 19th July, 1684,
John Toller, Esq., of Billingborough Hall in Lincolnshire, was one of this family, and I suppose
aunt to Vincent Amcotts. I may mention, the calendars {388} of the Will Office at Lincoln have
no entries of the name of Amcotts between 1670 and 1753.

TEWARS.

Blue Bell--Blue Anchor.--A bell painted blue is a common tavern sign in this country (United
States); and the blue anchor is also to be met with in many places. As these signs evidently
had their origin in England, and one of them is alluded to in the old Scotch ballad "The Blue
Bell of Scotland," it seems to me that the best method to apply for information upon the subject
is to ask "N. & Q."

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

"We've parted for the longest time."--Would you insert these lines in your paper, the author
of which I seek to know, as well as the remaining verses?

  "We've parted for the longest time, we ever yet did part,
  And I have felt the last wild throb of that enduring heart:
  Thy cold and tear-wet cheek has lain for the last time to mine,
  And I have pressed in agony those trembling lips of thine."

R. JERMYN COOPER.

The Rectory, Chiltington Hunt, Sussex.

Matthew Lewis.--Allow me to solicit information, through the medium of "N. & Q.," where I can
see a pedigree of Matthew Lewis, Esq., Deputy Secretary of War for many years under the Right
Hon. William Windham, then M.P. for Norwich, and other Secretaries-at-War. I rather think Mr.
Lewis married a daughter of Sir Thomas Sewell, Kt., Master of the Rolls from 1764 to 1784;
and had a son, Matthew Gregory Lewis, known as Monk Lewis, who was M.P. for Hindon at the close
of the last century: a very clever but eccentric young man. I also believe Lieut.-Gen. John
Whitelocke, and Gen. Sir Thos. Brownrigg, G.C.B., who died in 1838, were connected by marriage
with the Sewell or Lewis families.

C. H. F.

Paradise Lost.--In A Treatise on the Dramatic Literature of the Greeks, by the Rev. J. R. Darley,
I read the following remark:

    "In our own literature also, the efforts of our early dramatists were
    directed to subjects derived from religion; even the Paradise Lost is
    composed of a series of minor pieces, originally cast in dramatic form,
    of which the creation and fall of man, and the several episodes which
    were introduced subordinately to these grand events, were the
    subject-matter."

This statement being at variance with the received opinion, that Milton, from his early youth,
had meditated the composition of an epic poem, I would inquire whether there is any evidence
to support Mr. Darley's view? Milton has been charged with having borrowed the design of Paradise
Lost from some Italian author; and this allegation, coupled with that made by Mr. Darley, would,
if founded, reduce our great national epic to what Hazlitt has described as "patchwork and
plagiarism, the beggarly copiousness of borrowed wealth."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

Colonel Hyde Seymour.--Who was "Colonel Hyde Seymour?" I find his name written in a book, The
Life of William the Third, 1703.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Vault at Richmond, Yorkshire.--In Speed's plan of Richmond, in Yorkshire, is represented the
mouth of a "vault that goeth under the river, and ascendeth up into the Castell." Was there
ever such a vault, and how came it to be destroyed or lost sight of? One who knows Richmond
well tells me that he never heard of it.

O. L. R. G.

Poems published at Manchester.--Can any contributor to "N. & Q." inform me who was the author
of a volume of Poems on Several Occasions, published by subscription at Manchester; printed
for the author by R. Whitworth, in the year 1733? It is an 8vo. of 138 pages; has on the title-page
a line from Ovid:

  "Jure, tibi grates, candide lector, ago,"

and begins with an "Address to all my Subscribers;" after which follow several pages of subscribers'
names, which consist chiefly of Staffordshire and Cheshire gentry. My copy (for the possession
of which I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Bliss, the Principal of St. Mary's Hall, Oxford)
was formerly in the library of Mr. Heber, who has thus noted its purchase on the fly-leaf,
"Feb. 1811, Ford, Manchester, 7s. 6d." Dr. Bliss has added, on the same fly-leaf, "Heber's
fourth sale, No. 1908, not in the Bodleian Catalogue." The first poem in the book is "A Pastoral
to the Memory of Sir Thomas Delves, Baronet." It is probably a scarce book; but possibly some
of your book-learned correspondents may help me to the author's name.

W. SNEYD.

Denton.

Handel's Dettingen Te Deum.--Any information as to the circumstances under which Handel composed
this celebrated Te Deum, and the place {389} and occasion of its first public performance,
will be welcome to

PHILO-HANDEL.

Edmund Spenser and Sir Hans Sloane, Bart.--As I believe myself (morally speaking) to be lineally
descended from the former of these celebrated men, and collaterally from the latter, may I
request that information may be forwarded me, either through your columns or by correspondence,
regarding the descendants of the great poet and his ancestry; and also whether, among the many
thousand volumes bequeathed by Sir Hans to the nation, some record does not exist tending to
prove his genealogical descent? At present I know of no other pedigree than that Mr. Burke
has given of him in his Extinct Baronetage. I shall feel exceedingly gratified if any assistance
can be given me relating to these two families.

W. SLOANE SLOANE-EVANS.

Cornworthy Vicarage, Totnes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

The Ligurian Sage.--In Gifford's Mæviad, lines 313-316, I read,--

  "Together we explored the stoic page
  Of the Ligurian, stern tho' beardless sage!
  Or trac'd the Aquinian thro' the Latin road,
  And trembled at the lashes he bestow'd."

The Aquinian is of course Juvenal; but I must confess me at fault with respect to the Ligurian.

W. T. M.

    [The Ligurian sage is no doubt Aulus Persius Flaccus, who, according to
    ancient authors, was born at Volaterræ in Etruria; but some modern
    writers conclude that he was born at Lunæ Portus in Liguria, from the
    following lines (Sat. VI. 6.), which seem to relate to the place of his
    residence:

                          "Mihi nunc Ligus ora
      Intepet, hybernatque meum mare, qua latus ingens
      Dant scopuli, et multa littus se valle receptat.
      Lunai portum est operæ cognoscere, cives."

    When approaching the verge of manhood, Persius became the pupil of
    Cornutus the Stoic, and his death took place before he had completed
    his twenty-eighth year.]

Gresebrok in Yorkshire.--Can you or any of your correspondents give me any information as to
what part of Yorkshire the manor of Gresebrok lies in? In Shaw's History of Staffordshire (2
vols. folio), there is a "Bartholomew de Gresebrok" mentioned as witness to a deed of Henry
III.'s times made between Robert de Grendon, Lord of Shenston, and Jno. de Baggenhall; which
family of Gresebrok, it is said, "probably took their name from a manor so called in Yorkshire,
and had property and residence in Shenstone, from this early period to the beginning of the
century, many of whom are recorded in the registers from 1590 to 1722."

The above is quoted by Shaw from Sanders's History of Shenstone, p. 98., and perhaps some of
your correspondents may possess that work, and will oblige me by transcribing the necessary
information.

Any particulars of the above family will much oblige your constant reader

[Greek: Hêraldikos.]

    [According to Sanders, the family of Greisbrook was formerly of some
    note at Shenstone. He says that "Greisbrook, whence the family had
    their name, is a manor in Yorkshire, which, in the reign of Henry III.,
    was in the great House of Mowbray, of whom the Greisbrooks held their
    lands. Roger de Greisbrook (temp. Henry II.) is mentioned as holding of
    the fee of Alice, Countess of Augie, or Ewe, daughter of William de
    Albiney, Earl of Arundel, by Queen Alice, relict of Henry I." Then
    follow some particulars of various branches of the family, from the
    year 1580 to the death of Robert Greisbrook in 1718. Sanders's History
    is included in vol. ix. of Bibliotheca Topographica Britannica.]

Stillingfleet's Library.--The extensive and valuable library of Edward Stillingfleet, the learned
Bishop of Worcester, who died in 1699, is said to be contained in the library of Primate Marsh,
St. Patrick's, Dublin. Can any of your correspondents state how it came there? Was it bequeathed
by the bishop, or sold by his descendants? He died at Westminster, and was buried in Worcester
Cathedral.

J. B. WHITBORNE.

    [Bishop Stillingfleet's library was purchased by Archbishop Marsh for
    his public library in Dublin. A few years since Robert Travers, Esq.,
    M.D., of Dundrum near Dublin, was engaged in preparing for publication
    a catalogue of Stillingfleet's printed books, amounting to near 10,000
    volumes. The bishop's MSS. were bought by the late Earl of Oxford, and
    are now in the Harleian Collection. See The Life of Bishop
    Stillingfleet, 8vo., 1735, p. 135., and Biog. Brit. s. v.]

The whole System of Law.--On December 26, 1651, the Long Parliament, stimulated by Cromwell
to various important reforms in civil matters, resolved,--

    "That it be referred to persons out of the House to take into
    consideration what inconveniences there are in the law, and how the
    mischiefs that grow from the delays, the chargeableness, and the
    irregularities in the proceedings of the law, may be prevented; and the
    speediest way to reform the same."

The commission thus appointed consisted twenty-one persons, among whom were Sir Mathew Hale,
Sir Anthony Ashley Cooper, and John Rushworth. They seem to have set to work with great vigour,
and submitted a variety of important measures to Parliament, many of which were {390} adopted.
They also prepared a document "containing the whole system of the law," which was read to the
House on January 20 and 21, 1652; and it was resolved "That three hundred copies of the said
book be forthwith printed, to be delivered to members of the Parliament only."

Is anything known of this work at the present day?

A LEGULEIAN.

    [It appears doubtful whether this work was ever printed, for in a
    pamphlet published April 27, 1653, entitled A Supply to a Draught of
    an Act or System proposed (as is reported) by the Committee for
    Regulations concerning the Law, &c., the writer thus notices
    it:--"Having lately heard of some propositions called 'The System of
    the Law,' which are said to be intended preparatives to several Acts of
    Parliament touching the regulation of the law, we cannot but with
    thankfulness acknowledge the care and industry of those worthy persons
    who contrived the same, it containing many good and wholesome
    provisions for the future perpetual good and quiet of the nation.... We
    know not, at present, wherein we could give a more visible testimony of
    our affections to the peaceable government of the free people here,
    than by offering to them and the supreme authority, what we humbly
    conceive prejudicial and inconvenient to well-government, in case that
    System (as it is said to be now prepared) should take effect." A week
    before the publication of this work, the Long Parliament had been
    turned out of doors by Cromwell.]

Saint Malachy on the Popes.--Saint Malachy, Archbishop of Armagh, who flourished in the first
half of the twelfth century, is said to be the author of a curious prophecy respecting the
Popes. Some years ago I met with this prophecy in an old French almanack, and was particularly
struck with its applicability to the life and character of the present Pope; but I omitted
to make a Note.

Can you inform me where I may find a copy of this prophecy?

HENRY H. BREEN.

    [St. Malachy's hieroglyphical descriptions or prophecy on the
    succession of Roman Pontiffs will be found in Flosculi Historici
    delibati nunc delibatiores redditi, sive Historia Universalis; Auctore
    Joanne de Bussières, Societatis Jesu Sacerdote, Oxon. 1668. An
    explanation of each prophecy is given from the pontificate of Celestus
    II. A.D. 1143, to that of Innocent X. A.D. 1644. The present Pope being
    the nineteenth from Innocent X., the following prophecy relates to him,
    "Crux de Cruce." We subjoin the remainder: 20. Lumen in coelo. 21.
    Ignis ardens. 22. Religio depopulata. 23. Fides intrepida. 24. Pastor
    angelicus. 25. Pastor et nauta. 26. Flos Florum. 27. De medietate lunæ.
    28. De labore solis. 29 Gloria Olivæ. St. Malachy concludes his
    prophecy with the following prediction of the downfall of the Roman
    Church: "In persecutione extrema Sacræ Romanæ Ecclesiæ sedebit Petrus
    Romanus, qui pascet oves in multis tribulationibus; quibus transactis
    civitas septicollis diruetur, et Judex tremendus judicabit populum."]

Work on the Human Figure.--A few years ago there was a little work published on Dress and the
Art of improving the Human Figure, by (I believe) a nobleman's valet: I wish to consult this
for a literary purpose, and should be much obliged to any of your readers who can favour me
with the exact title and date.

CHARLES DEMAYNE.

    [The following two works on dress appear in the London Catalogue:--The
    Whole Art of Dress, by a Country Officer, 12mo. Lond. 1830; and The
    Art of Dress, or a Guide to the Toilette, fcp. 8vo., Lond. 1839.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

"NAMBY-PAMBY," AND OTHER WORDS OF THE SAME FORM.

In the Treatise on the Bathos, the infantine style is exclusively exemplified by passages from
Ambrose Philips:

    "This [says Pope] is when a poet grows so very simple as to think and
    talk like a child. I shall take my examples from the greatest master in
    this way: hear how he fondles like a mere stammerer:

      'Little charm of placid mien,
      Miniature of Beauty's queen,
      Hither, British Muse of mine,
      Hither, all ye Grecian nine,
      With the lovely Graces three,
      And your pretty nursling see.
      When the meadows next are seen,
      Sweet enamel, white and green;
      When again the lambkins play,
      Pretty sportlings full of May,
      Then the neck so white and round,
      (Little neck with brilliants bound)
      And thy gentleness of mind,
      (Gentle from a gentle kind), &c.
      Happy thrice, and thrice again,
      Happiest he of happy men,' &c.

    And the rest of those excellent lullabies of his composition."--C. xi.

These verses are stated by Warburton, in his note on the passage, to be taken from a poem to
{391} Miss Cuzzona. They are however in fact selected from two poems addressed to daughters
of Lord Carteret, and are put together arbitrarily, out of the order in which they stand in
the original poems. There is a short poem by Philips in the same metre, addressed to Signora
Cuzzoni, and dated May 25, 1724, beginning, "Little syren of the stage;" but none of the verses
quoted in the Treatise on the Bathos are extracted from it.

Namby-pamby belongs to a tolerably numerous class of words in our language, all formed on the
same rhyming principle. They are all familiar, and some of them childish; which last circumstance
probably suggested to Pope the invention of the word namby-pamby, in order to designate the
infantine style which Ambrose Philips had introduced. Many of them, however, are used by old
and approved writers; and the principle upon which they are formed must be of great antiquity
in our language. The following is a collection of words which are all formed in this manner:

Bow-wow.--A word coined in imitation of a dog's bark. Compare the French aboyer.

Chit-chat.--Formed by reduplication from chat. A word (says Johnson) used in ludicrous conversation.
It occurs in the Spectator and Tatler.

Fiddle-faddle.--Formed in a similar manner from to fiddle, in its sense of to trifle. It occurs
in the Spectator.

Flim-flam.--An old word, of which examples are cited from Beaumont and Fletcher, and Swift.
It is formed from flam, which Johnson calls "a cant word of no certain etymology." Flam, for
a lie, a cheat, is however used by South, Barrow, and Warburton, and therefore at one time
obtained an admission into dignified style. See Nares' Glossary in v.

Hab or nab.--That is, according to Nares, have or have not; subsequently abridged into hab,
nab. Hob or nob is explained by him to mean "Will you have a glass of wine or not?" Hob, nob
is applied by Shakspeare to another alternative, viz. give or take (Twelfth Night, Act III.
Sc. 4.). See Nares in v. Habbe or Nabbe.

Handy-dandy.--"A play in which children change hands and places" (Johnson). Formed from hand.
The word is used by Shakspeare.

Harum-scarum.--"A low but frequent expression applied to flighty persons; persons always in
a hurry" (Todd). Various conjectures are offered respecting its origin: the most probable seems
to be, that it is derived from scare. The Anglo-Saxon word hearmsceare means punishment (see
Grimm, Deutsche Rechtsalterthümer, p. 681.); but although the similarity of sound is remarkable,
it is difficult to understand how harum-scarum can be connected with it.

Helter-skelter.--Used by Shakspeare. Several derivations for this word are suggested, but none
probable.

Higgledy-piggledy.--"A cant word, corrupted from higgle, which denotes any confused mass, as
higglers carry a huddle of provisions together" (Johnson). It seems more probable that the
word is formed from pig; and that it alludes to the confused and indiscriminate manner in which
pigs lie together. In other instances (as chit-chat, flim-flam, pit-a-pat, shilly-shally, slip-slop,
and perhaps harum-scarum), the word which forms the basis of the rhyming reduplication stands
second, and not first.

Hocus-pocus.--The words ocus bochus appear, from a passage cited in Todd, to have been used
anciently by Italian conjurers. The fanciful idea of Tillotson, that hocus-pocus is a corruption
of the words hoc est corpus, is well known. Compare Richardson in v.

Hoddy-doddy.--This ancient word has various meanings (see Richardson in v.). As used by Ben
Jonson and Swift, it is expressive of contempt. In Holland's translation of Pliny it signifies
a snail. There is likewise a nursery rhyme or riddle:

    "Hoddy-doddy,
  All legs and no body."

Hodge-podge appears to be a corruption of hotch-pot. It occurs in old writers. (See Richardson
in Hotch-pot.)

Hoity-toity.--Thoughtless, giddy. Formed from the old word to hoit, to dance or leap, to indulge
in riotous mirth. See Nares in Hoit and Hoyt.

Hubble-bubble.--A familiar word, formed from bubble. Not in the dictionaries.

Hubbub.--Used by Spenser, and other good writers. Richardson derives it from hoop or whoop,
shout or yell. It seems rather a word formed in imitation of the confused inarticulate noise
produced by the mixture of numerous voices, like mur-mur in Latin.

Hugger-mugger.--Used by Spenser, Shakspeare, and other old writers. The etymology is uncertain.
Compare Jamieson in Hudge-mudge. The latter part of the word seems to be allied with smuggle,
and the former part to be the reduplication. The original and proper sense of hugger-mugger
is secretly. See Nares in v., who derives it from to hugger, to lurk about; but query whether
such a word can be shown to have existed?

Humpty-dumpty.--Formed from hump. See Todd in v.

Hurly-burly.--This old word occurs in the well-known verses in the opening scene of Macbeth--

  "When the hurly burly's done,
  When the battle's lost and won"--

{392} where see the notes of the commentators for other instances of it. There are rival etymologies
for this word, but all uncertain. The French has hurlu-burlu. Nares in Hurly.

Hurry-scurry.--This word, formed from hurry, is used by Gray in his Long Story.

Nick-nack.--A small ornament. Not in the dictionaries.

Pic-nic.--For the derivation of this word, which seems to be of French origin, see "N. & Q.,"
Vol. vii., pp. 240. 387.

Pit-pat, or Pit-a-pat.--A word formed from pat, and particularly applied to the pulsations
of the heart, when accelerated by emotion. Used by Ben Jonson and Dryden. Congreve writes it
a-pit-pat.

Riff-raff.--The refuse of anything, "Il ne lui lairra rif ny raf." Cotgrave in Rif, where rif
is said to mean nothing.

Rolly-pooly.--"A sort of game" (Johnson). It is now used as the name of a pudding rolled with
sweetmeat.

Rowdy-dowdy, and Rub-a-dub.--Words formed in imitation of the beat of a drum.

Shilly-shally.--Used by Congreve, and formerly written "shill I, shall I."

Slip-slop.--"Bad liquor. A low word, formed by reduplication of slop" (Johnson). Now generally
applied to errors in pronunciation, arising from ignorance and carelessness, like those of
Mrs. Malaprop in The Rivals.

Tip-top.--Formed from top, like slip-slop from slop.

Tirra-lirra.--Used by Shakspeare:

  "The lark that tirra lirra chants."--Winter's Tale, Act IV. Sc. 2.

From the French, see Nares in v.

The preceding collection is intended merely to illustrate the principle upon which this class
of words are formed, and does not aim at completeness. Some of your correspondents will doubtless,
if they are disposed, be able to supply other examples of the same mode of formation.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARL OF OXFORD.

(Vol. viii., p. 292.)

S. N. will find the Earl's answer in a volume, not very common now, entitled A Compleat and
Impartial History of the Impeachments of the Last Ministry, London, 8vo., 1716. The charge
respecting the creation of twelve peers in one day formed the 16th article of the impeachment.
I inclose a copy of the answer, if not too long for your pages.

G.

    "In answer to the 16th article, the said Earl doth insist, that by the
    laws and constitution of this realm, it is the undoubted right and
    prerogative of the Sovereign, who is the fountain of honor, to create
    peers of this realm, as well in time of Parliament as when there is no
    Parliament sitting or in being; and that the exercise of this branch of
    the prerogative is declared in the form or preamble of all patents of
    honor, to proceed ex mero motu, as an act of mere grace and favor,
    and that such acts are not done as many other acts of public nature
    are, by and with the advice of the Privy Council; or as acts of pardon
    usually run, upon a favorable representation of several circumstances,
    or upon reports from the Attorney-General or other officers, that such
    acts are lawful or expedient, or for the safety or advantage of the
    Crown; but flows entirely from the beneficent and gracious disposition
    of the Sovereign. He farther says, that neither the warrants for
    patents of honor, the bills or other engrossments of such patents, are
    at any time communicated to the council or the treasury, as several
    other patents are; and therefore the said Earl, either as High
    Treasurer or Privy Councillor, could not have any knowledge of the
    same: Nevertheless, if her late sacred Majesty had thought fit to
    acquaint him with her most gracious intentions of creating any number
    of peers of this realm, and had asked his opinion, whether the persons
    whom she then intended to create were persons proper to have been
    promoted to that dignity, he does believe he should have highly
    approved her Majesty's choice; and does not apprehend that in so doing
    he had been guilty of any breach of his duty, or violation of the trust
    in him reposed; since they were all persons of honor and distinguished
    merit, and the peerage thereby was not greatly increased, considering
    some of those created would have been peers by descent, and many noble
    families were then lately extinct: And the said Earl believes many
    instances may be given where this prerogative hath been exercised by
    former princes of this realm, in as extensive a manner; and
    particularly in the reigns of King Henry the Eighth, King James the
    First, and his late Majesty King William. The said Earl begs leave to
    add, that in the whole course of his life he hath always loved the
    established constitution, and in his private capacity as well as in all
    public stations, when he had the honor to be employed, has ever done
    his utmost to preserve it, and shall always continue so to do."

       *       *       *       *       *

PICTS' HOUSES.

(Vol. viii., p. 264.)

The mention there made of the recent discovery of one of these subterranean vaults or passages
in Aberdeenshire, induces me to ask a question in regard to two subterranean passages which
have lately been discovered in Berwickshire, and which so far differ from all others that I
have heard or read of, that whereas all of them seem to have been built at the sides with large
flat stones, and roofed with similar ones, and then covered with earth, those which I am about
to mention are both hewn out of the solid rock. They are both situated in the Lammermoor range
of hills. Those persons who have seen them are at a loss to know for what {393} purpose they
could have been excavated, unless for the purpose of sepulture in the times of the aborigines,
or of very early inhabitants of Britain, as they in many respects resemble those stone graves
which are mentioned in Worsaae's Description of the Primæval Antiquities of Denmark, translated
and applied to the illustration of similar remains in England by Mr. Thoms.

One of these cavities is situated on a remote pasture farm, among the hills belonging to the
Earl of Lauderdale, called Braidshawrigg; and was discovered by a shepherd very near his own
house, within less than a quarter of a mile up a small stream which runs past it, and on the
opposite side of the water, a few yards up the steep hill. The shepherd had observed for some
time that one of his dogs was in the habit of going into what he supposed to be a rabbit hole
at this place, and when he was missing and called, he generally came out of this hole. At last,
curiosity led his master to take a spade and dig into it; and he soon found that, after digging
down into the soil to the rock, the cavity became larger, and had evidently been the work of
human hands. Information was given to Lord Lauderdale, and the rubbish was cleared away. It
(the rubbish) did not extend far in, and after that the passage was clear. The excavation consists
of a passage cut nearly north and south (the entrance being to the south) through various strata
of solid rocks, partly grauwacke, (or what is there called whinstone), and partly grey slate:
the strata lying east and west, and nearly vertical. The whole length of it is seventy-four
feet. From the entrance the passage, for four or five yards, slopes downwards into the hill;
it then runs horizontally the length of sixty-three feet from the entrance, when it changes
its direction at right angles to the westward for a distance of eleven feet; when it ends with
the solid rock. It is regularly from three feet four inches to three feet six inches wide,
and about seven feet high, the ceiling being somewhat circular. The floor is the rock cut square.
The time and labour must have been great to cut this passage, as not more than one man could
conveniently quarry the rock at the same time. It might have been supposed that this was a
level to a mine, as copper has been worked in this range farther eastward; but the passage
does not follow any vein, but cuts across all the strata, and keeps a straight line, till it
turns westward, and then in another straight line; and the floors, sides, and roof are all
made quite regular and even with a pickaxe or a hammer. There does not appear to have been
at any time any other habitation than the shepherd's house, and another cottage a little lower
down the stream, in the neighbourhood. The discovery of this cavern recalled to the recollection
of myself, and some of my family, that a few years ago, in cutting a road through the rock
into a whinstone quarry, about four miles south of Braidshawrigg, near a mill, we had cut across
the east end of a passage somewhat similar to the one before mentioned, but running east and
west; that we had cleared it out for a short way, but as it then went under a corner of one
of the houses belonging to the mill, we stopped, for fear of bringing down the building, as
this passage, though cut out of the solid rock, was not a mine, but had been worked to the
surface; and, if it ever had been used for purposes of sepulture, must have been roofed with
flagstones, and then covered with earth like other Picts' houses. But these roof-stones must
have been carried away, and the whole trench was filled with rubbish, and all trace of it on
the surface was obliterated. This passage we have lately opened, and cleared out. To the westward
it passes into the adjoining water-mill, which is itself in great part formed by excavation
of the rock; and the east wall of the upper part of the mill is arched over the passage. Beyond
the west wall of the mill which adjoins the stream, there is a continuation of the trench through
the rock down to the water, which serves to take away that which passes over the millwheel
at right angles to where the rock has been cut away to make room for the millwheel itself.
That which has been cut away in making the trench, is a seam of clay slate about three feet
six inches in breadth, between two solid whinstone rocks. The length of the passage, from the
east end, which terminated in rock, to the mill, is sixty-three feet. The mill is thirty feet,
and the cut beyond it twelve feet: in all, one hundred and five feet. The average depth is
about twelve feet; but as it slopes down to the stream, some of it is sixteen feet deep. It
has been suggested that it might have been dug out in order to obtain the coarse slate; but
the difficulty of working a confined seam like this, in any other way than by picking it out
piecemeal with immense labour, seems impossible. It can never have been meant to convey water
to the mill, as the highest part begins in the solid rock, and the object must always have
been to keep the water on the highest possible level, until it reached the top of the millwheel.
Nothing was found in either of these excavations.--After this long discussion, Query, What
can have been the purpose for which these laborious works can have been executed?

J. S. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRONUNCIATION OF "HUMBLE."

(Vol. viii., pp. 229. 298.)

It is my misfortune entirely to differ from MR. DAWSON (p. 229.) and MR. CROSSLEY (p. 298.)
as to the pronunciation of humble; and permit me to say (with all courtesy) that I was unfeignedly
surprised at the latter's assertion, that sounding {394} the h is "a recent attempt to introduce
a mispronunciation," as I have known that mode of pronunciation all but universally prevalent
for nearly the last forty years; and I have had pretty good opportunities for observing what
the general usage in that respect was, as I was for some years at a very large public school,
then at Oxford for more than the usual time, and have since resided in London more than twenty-five
years, practising as a barrister in Westminster Hall, and on one of the largest circuits. If,
therefore, I have not had ample means of judging as to the pronunciation of humble, I know
not where the means are to be found; especially as I doubt whether humble and humbly are anywhere
so frequently used as in courts: a counsel rarely making a speech without "humbly submitting"
or making a "humble application." Now the result of my experience is, that the h is almost
universally sounded; and at this moment I cannot call to mind a single gentleman who omits
it, who does not also omit it in many other instances where no doubt can exist that it ought
to be sounded.

MR. DAWSON believes the sounding the h to be "one of those, either Oxford, or Cambridge, or
both, peculiarities of which no reasonable explanation can be given." Now I believe MR. DAWSON
is right in supposing that that usage is general both at Oxford and Cambridge, and I rather
think that not only an explanation of the fact may be given, but that the fact itself, that
in both the Universities the h is sounded, is extremely cogent evidence that it is correct.
It cannot be doubted that the fact that a word is spelled with certain letters is clear proof
that, at the time when that spelling was adopted, the word was so sounded as to give a distinct
sound to each of the letters used, and that clearly must have been the case with words beginning
with h especially. When, therefore, the present spelling of humble was adopted, the h was sounded.
And when the number of the members of the Universities is considered, and their position as
men of education, it must at least admit of doubt whether, if a general usage prevailed among
them to pronounce a particular word in the manner in which it originally was pronounced, this
would not alone prevent a different pronunciation among others from having that general prevalence,
which would be sufficient to justify a change in the utterance of such word.

But let us consider whether the usage of the Universities is not very cogent evidence that
the h is generally sounded throughout England, 1. Each University contains a large number of
the higher and better educated classes. 2. The members come from all parts of England indiscriminately.
3. Infinitely the majority come from schools; and some of the large schools have generally
many members at each University. By such persons the pronunciation of the schools cannot fail
to be represented. 4. Every one on entering the University is expected at least to know his
own language. 5. There is no instruction, as far as I know (however much the fact may be to
be regretted), ever given in English at either University. 6. There is a perpetual change of
about a third of the members every year, few remaining above three years. Now can any one,
who candidly considers these facts, doubt that a usage in pronouncing a particular word at
either University if generally prevalent, is very strong evidence that the same usage is generally
prevalent throughout England; but if any one does entertain such a doubt, surely it must be
done away, when he finds that the same usage prevails at both Universities; though there exists
such a degree of rivalry between them as would prevent the one from adopting from the other
any usage which was liable to any the least doubt, and though there is no communication between
them that could account for the same usage prevailing in both.

MR. CROSSLEY appeals to the Prayer Book as a decisive authority, and instances "an humble,"
&c. If any one will examine the Prayer Book, he will find that it is no authority at all; as
"an" is at least as often used erroneously before h as not. In reading over the first sixty-eight
Psalms, I found the following instances--Ps. xxvii. 3. and Ps. xxxiii. 15., "An host of men;"
Ps. xlvii. 4. and Ps. lxi. 5., "An heritage;" Ps. xlix. 18., "An happy man," Ps. lv. 5., "An
horrible dread;" Ps. lxviii. 15., "An high hill." And in the same Psalms I only found one instance
of a before h, viz. in Ps. xxxiii. 16., "A horse;" and in this case the Bible version has "An
horse." In the first Lesson for the 19th Sunday after Trinity, Dan. iii. 4., "An herald," and
27., "An hair of their head," occur; and in the next chapter (iv. 13.), "An holy one." It is
plain from these instances (and doubtless many others may be found), that the use of "an" before
h, in the Bible or Prayer Book, can afford no test whatever whether the h ought to be sounded
or not.

S. G. C.

After the sensible Note of your correspondent E. H., it is perhaps hardly necessary to say
more on the subject of aspirated and mute h. If these remarks, therefore, seem superfluous,
they may easily be suppressed, and that too without any offence to the writer. {395}

It is very dangerous to dogmatise on the English language. We really have no authority to which
we can confidently appeal, except the usage of good society: "Quem penes arbitrium est, et
jus et norma loquendi." Unfortunately, however, every man is convinced, that in his own society
that usage is to be found; and your correspondents, who have agreed in approving the Heapian
pronunciation, will probably, on that ground, still retain the same opinion.

The only words in the English language, in which h is written, but not pronounced, are words
derived from Latin through the French; but of these, many in English retain the aspirate, though
in French nearly all lose it. The exceptions collected by E. H. satisfactorily prove that we
do not follow the French rule implicitly. They indeed carry the non-aspiration farther than
to words of Latin derivation. They omit the aspirate to nearly all words derived from Greek.
This we never do. I think that E. H.'s rule, of always aspirating h before u, is not entirely
without exceptions. Except in Ireland, I never heard humour or humorous aspirated, though in
humid and humect the h is always sounded. If this be right, it depends solely on the usage
of good society, and not on rules laid down by Walker or Lindley Murray, whose authority we
do not acknowledge as infallible. I may here remark, that no arguments can be drawn from our
Liturgy or translation of the Bible that would not prove too much. If, because we find in our
Liturgy "an humble, lowly, and obedient heart," we are to read "an 'umble," we must also read
"an 'undred, an 'ouse, an 'eap, an 'eart;" for an was prefixed in our Liturgy as well as in
our translated Bible to every word beginning with h, and not (as one of your correspondents
supposes) only to words beginning with silent h. Among young clergymen there is a growing habit
(derived I suppose from Walker, or other such sources) of indulging in the Heapian dialect.
I think Mr. Dickens will have done us more good by his ridicule, than will ever be effected
by serious arguments; and I feel as much obliged to him as to E. H. To show how dangerous it
is to be bound by a mere grammarian authority, a disciple of Vaugelas or Restaut (no insignificant
names in French philology) would be led to read les héros as if it were "les zéros."

E. C. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCHOOL LIBRARIES.

(Vol. viii., p. 220.)

I can answer MR. WELD TAYLOR for at least one public school having no library, nor any books
for other purposes than tasks, i.e. Christ's Hospital, London: whether any other metropolitan
schools are provided with books I do not know. When I was at the above school, at all events,
we had no books except for learning out of; whether reform has crept in since I was there,
twenty-five years ago, I cannot say. I speak of then, not now.

I remember very well a dusty cupboard with "Read, Mark, Learn," painted in ostentatious letters
on it. And these profound words were just like a park gate with high iron railings, where you
may peep in and get no farther--no more could we: for we never saw the inside of it, and nobody
could say where the key was, therefore what flowery pleasaunce of knowledge it contained nobody
perhaps knows to this day. I also remember how greedily any entertaining book was borrowed,
begged, and circulated; and thumbed and dog's-eared to admiration. Rasselas and Gulliver's
Travels, Robinson Crusoe, or Sandford and Merton, poor things! they became at last what might
be supposed a public arsenal of umbrellas would at the last.

When I reflect on that time, and the dreary winter's evenings, trundled to bed almost by daylight,
my very heart sinks. What a luxury if some Christian had been allowed to read aloud for an
hour, instead of lying awake studying the ghastly lamp that swung from the ceiling in the dormitory;
or if some one with a modicum of information had given half an hour's lecture on some entertaining
branch of science. Perhaps these antique schools are reformed in some measure, or perhaps they
are waiting till their betters are.

I observe, however, that certain parish work-house schools have, within these few days, taken
the hint. Perhaps our public schools, for some are very wealthy, may be able to afford to follow
their example.

E. H.

Wimborne Minster, Dorset.

Marlborough College possesses a library of about four thousand volumes, entirely the munificent
contribution of Mr. M^cGeachy, one of the council. The boys of the fifth and sixth forms are
allowed access daily at certain fixed hours, the librarian being present. In addition to this,
libraries are now being formed in each house, which are maintained by small half-yearly subscriptions,
and which will contain books of a more amusing character, and better suited for the younger boys.

B. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Albumenized Paper.--If this subject be not already exhausted, the following account of my method
of preparing the material in question, which differs in some few important particulars from
any I have seen published, may be of interest to some of my brother operators. {396}

I have, after a very considerable number of experiments, succeeded in producing the very highly
varnished appearance so conspicuous in some of the foreign proofs; and although I cannot say
I admire it in general, more especially as regards landscapes, yet it is sometimes very effective
for portraits, giving a depth of tone to the shadows, and a roundness to the flesh, which is
very striking. Moreover, a photographer may just as well be acquainted with every kind of manipulation
connected with the art.

Having but a very moderate amount of spare time, and that at uncertain intervals, to devote
to this seductive pursuit, I am always a great stickler for economy of time in all the processes,
as well as for economy of material, the former with me having, perhaps, a shade more influence
than the latter.

As in all other processes, I find that the kind of paper made use of has a most important bearing
upon the result. That which I find the best is of French manufacture, known as Canson Frères'
(both the thin and the thick sorts), probably in consequence of their being sized with starch.
The thin sort (the same as is generally used for waxed-paper negatives) takes the highest polish,
but more readily embrowns after being rendered sensitive, and the lights are not ever quite
so white as when the positive paper is used.

In order to save both time and labour, I prepare my papers in the largest sizes that circumstances
will admit of, as it takes little or no more time to prepare and render sensitive a large sheet
than a small one; and as I always apply the silver solution by means of the glass rod, I find
that a half-sheet of Canson's paper (being seventeen inches by eleven inches the half-sheet)
is the best size to operate on. If the whole sheet is used, it requires more than double the
quantity of solution to ensure its being properly covered, which additional quantity is simply
so much waste.

A most convenient holder for the paper whilst being operated upon, is one suggested by Mr.
Horne of Newgate Street, and consists of a piece of half-inch Quebec yellow pine plank (a soft
kind of deal), eleven inches by seventeen inches, screwed to a somewhat larger piece of the
same kind, but with the grain of the wood at right angles to the upper piece, in order to preserve
a perfectly flat surface. On to the upper piece is glued a covering of japanned-flannel, such
as is used for covering tables, taking care to select for the purpose that which has no raised
pattern, the imitation of rosewood or mahogany being unexceptionable on that account. The paper
can be readily secured to the arrangement alluded to by means of a couple of pins, one at each
of two opposite angles, the wood being sufficiently soft to admit of their ready penetration.

To prepare the Albumen.--Take the white of one egg; this dissolve in one ounce of distilled
water, two grains of chloride of sodium (common salt), and two grains of grape sugar; mix with
the egg, whip the whole to froth, and allow it to stand until it again liquefies. The object
of this operation is to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients, and render the whole as homogeneous
as possible.

A variety in the resulting tone is produced by using ten grains of sugar of milk instead of
the grape sugar.

The albumen mixture is then laid on to the paper by means of a flat camel's-hair brush, about
three inches broad, the mixture being first poured into a cheese plate, or other flat vessel,
and all froth and bubbles carefully removed from the surface. Four longitudinal strokes with
such a brush, if properly done, will cover the whole half-sheet of paper with an even thin
film; but in case there are any lines formed, the brush may be passed very lightly over it
again in a direction at right angles to the preceding. The papers should then be allowed to
remain on a perfectly level surface until nearly dry, when they may be suspended for a few
minutes before the fire, to complete the operation. In this condition the glass is but moderate,
and as is generally used; but if, after the first drying before the fire, the papers are again
subjected to precisely the same process, the negative paper will shine like polished glass.
That is coated again with the albumenizing mixture, and dried as before.

One egg, with the ounce of water, &c., is enough to cover five half-sheets with two layers,
or five whole sheets with one.

I rarely iron my papers, as I do not find any advantage therein, because the moment the silver
solution is applied the albumen becomes coagulated, and I cannot discover the slightest difference
in the final result, except that when the papers are ironed I sometimes find flaws and spots
occur from some carelessness in the ironing process.

If the albumenized paper is intended to be kept for any long time before use, the ironing may
be useful as a protection against moisture, provided the iron be sufficiently hot; but the
temperature ought to be considerable.

To render the paper sensitive, I use a hundred-grain solution of nitrate of silver, of which
forty-five minims will exactly cover the sheet of seventeen inches by eleven inches, if laid
on with the glass rod. A weaker solution will do, but with the above splendid tints may be
produced. As to the ammonio-nitrate of silver, I have totally abandoned its use, and, after
many careful experiments, I am satisfied that its extra sensitiveness is a delusion, while
the rapid tendency of paper prepared with it to spoil is increased tenfold.

The fixing, of course, modifies considerably the tone of the proof, but almost any desired
shade {397} may be attained by following the plan of MR. F. M. LYTE, published in "N. & Q.,"
provided the negative is sufficiently intense to admit of a considerable degree of over-printing.

It is a fact which appears to be entirely overlooked by many operators, that the intensity
of the negative is the chief agent in conducing to black tones in the positive proof; and it
is almost impossible to produce them if the negative is poor and weak: and the same observation
applies to a negative that has been over-exposed.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Cement for Glass Baths.--The best I have tried is Canada balsam. My baths I have had in use
five years, and have used them for exciting, developing hypo. and cyanide, and are as good
as when first used.

NOXID.

New Process for Positive Proofs.--I have tried a method of preparing my paper for positive
proofs, which, as I have not seen it mentioned as employed by others, and the results appear
to me very satisfactory, I am induced to communicate to you, and to accompany by some specimens,
which will enable you to judge of the amount of success.

I use a glass cylinder, with air-pump attached, such as that described by MR. STEWART as employed
by him for iodizing his paper. I put in this the salt solution, and that I use is thus composed:
2 drachms of sugar of milk, dissolved in 20 ounces of water, adding--

  Chloride of barium             15 grs.
  Chloride of sodium             15 grs.
  Chloride of ammonium           15 grs.

In this I plunge several sheets of paper rolled into a coil (taking care that they are covered
by the solution), and exhaust the air. I leave them thus for a few minutes, then take them
out and hang them up to dry; or as the sheets are rather difficult to pin, from the paper giving
way, spread them on a frame, across which any common kind of coarse muslin or tarletan, such
as that I inclose, is stretched.

I excite with ammonio-nitrate of silver, 30 grains to 1 ounce of water, applied with a flat brush.

I fix in a bath of plain hypo. of the strength of one-sixth. The bath in which the inclosed
specimens were fixed has been in use for some little time, and therefore has acquired chloride
of silver.

I previously prepared my paper by brushing it with the same salt solution, and the difference
of effect produced may be seen by comparing a proof so obtained, which I inclose, with the
others. This latter is of rather a reddish-brown, and not very agreeable tint. I have inclosed
the proofs as printed on paper of Whatman, Turner, and Canson Frères, so as to show the effect
in each case. The advantages which the mode I have detailed possesses are, I think, these:

Greater sensitiveness in the paper,

A good black tint, and

Greater freedom from spots and blemishes, all very material merits.

C. E. F.

    [Our Correspondent has forwarded five specimens, four of which are
    certainly very satisfactory, the fifth is the one prepared by
    brushing.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

The Groaning Elm-plank in Dublin (Vol. viii., p. 309.).--DR. RIMBAULT has given an account
of the groaning-board, one of the popular delusions of two centuries ago: the following notice
of it, extracted from my memoir of Sir Thomas Molyneux, Bart., M.D., and published in the Dublin
University for September, 1841, may interest your readers:

    "In one of William Molyneux's communications he mentions the exhibition
    of 'the groaning elm-plank' in Dublin, a curiosity that attracted much
    attention and many learned speculations about the years 1682 and 1683.
    He was, however, too much of a philosopher to be gulled with the rest
    of the people who witnessed this so-called 'sensible elm-plank,' which
    is said to have groaned and trembled on the application of a hot iron
    to one end of it. After explaining the probable cause of the noise and
    tremulousness by its form and condition, and by the sap being made to
    pass up through the pores or tubuli of the plank which was in some
    particular condition, he says: 'But, Tom, the generality of mankind is
    lazy and unthoughtful, and will not trouble themselves to think of the
    reason of a thing: when they have a brief way of explaining anything
    that is strange by saying, "The devil's in it," what need they trouble
    their heads about pores, and matters, and motion, figure, and
    disposition, when the devil and a witch shall solve the phenomena of
    nature.'"

W. R. WILDE.

Passage in Whiston (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--J. T. complains of not being able to find a passage
in Whiston, which he says is referred to in p. 94. of Taylor on Original Sin, Lond. 1746. I
do not know what Taylor he refers to. Jeremy Taylor wrote a treatise on original sin; but he
lived before Whiston. I have looked into two editions of the Scripture Doctrine of Original
Sin, by John Taylor, one of Lond. 1741, and another of Lond. 1750; but in neither of these
can I find any mention of Mr. Whiston.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

"When Orpheus went down" (Vol. viii., pp. 196. 281.).--In addition to the information given
upon this old song by MR. OLDENSHAW, I beg to add the following. It was written for and sung
{398} by Mr. Beard, in a pantomimic entertainment entitled Orpheus and Euridice, acted at the
theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields in 1740. The author of the entertainment was Mr. Henry Sommer,
but the song in question was "translated from the Spanish" by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Lisle, who
died Rector of Burclere, Hants, 1767. It was long very popular, and is found in almost all
the song-books of the latter half of the last century. Mr. Park, the editor of the last edition
of Ritson's English Songs (vol. ii. p. 153.), has the following note upon this song:

    "An answer to this has been written in the way of echo, and in defence
    of the fair sex, whom the Spanish author treated with such libellous
    sarcasm."

As this "echo song" is not given by Ritson or his editor, I have transcribed it from a broadside
in my collection. It is said to have been written by a lady.

  "When Orpheus went down to the regions below,
    To bring back the wife that he lov'd,
  Old Pluto, confounded, as histories show,
    To find that his music so mov'd:
  That a woman so good, so virtuous, and fair,
    Should be by a man thus trepann'd,
  To give up her freedom for sorrow and care,
    He own'd she deserv'd to be damn'd.

  "For punishment he never study'd a whit,
    The torments of hell had not pain
  Sufficient to curse her; so Pluto thought fit
    Her husband should have her again.
  But soon he compassion'd the woman's hard fate,
    And, knowing of mankind so well,
  He recall'd her again, before 'twas too late,
    And said, she'd be happier in hell."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Foreign Medical Education (Vol. viii., p. 341.).--Your correspondent MEDICUS will find some
information respecting some of the foreign universities in the Lancet for 1849, and the Medical
Times and Gazette for 1852. For France he will find all he wants in Dr. Roubaud's Annuaire
Médical et Pharmaceutique de la France, published by Baillière, 219. Regent Street.

M. D.

"Short red, good red" (Vol. viii., p. 182.).--Sir Walter has probably borrowed this saying
from the story of Bishop Walchere, when he related the murder of Adam, Bishop of Caithness.
This tragical event is told in the Chronicle of Mailros, under the year 1222; also in Forduni
Scotichronicon, and in Wyntoun's Chronicle, book vii. c. ix.; but the words "short red, good
red," do not appear in these accounts of the transaction.

J. MN.

Collar of SS. (Vols. iv.-vii. passim).--At the risk of frightening you and your correspondents,
I venture to resume this subject, in consequence of a circumstance to which my attention has
just been directed.

In the parish church of Swarkestone in Derbyshire there is a monument to Richard Harpur, one
of the judges of the Court of Common Pleas in the reign of Elizabeth; on which he is represented
in full judicial costume, with the collar of SS., which I am told by the minister of the parish
is "distinctly delineated." It may be seen in Fairholt's Costumes of England, p. 278.

As far as I am aware, this is the only instance, either on monuments or in portraits, of a
puisne judge being ornamented with this decoration. Can any of your correspondents produce
another example? or can they account, from any other cause, for Richard Harpur receiving such
a distinction? or may I not rather attribute it to the blunder of the sculptor?

EDWARD FOSS.

Who first thought of Table-turning (Vol. viii., p. 57.).--It is impossible to say who discovered
the table-turning experiment, but it undoubtedly had its origin in the United States. It was
practised here three years ago, and, although sometimes associated with spirit-rappings, has
more frequently served for amusement. On this connexion it may be proper to say that Professor
Faraday's theory of unconscious muscular force meets with no concurrence among those who know
anything about the subject in this country. It is notorious that large tables have been moved
frequently by five or six persons, whose fingers merely touched them, although upon each was
seated a stout man, weighing a hundred and fifty or sixty pounds: neither involuntary nor voluntary
muscular force could have effected that physical movement, when there was no other purchase
on the table than that which could be gained by a pressure of the tips of the fingers.

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

Passage of Thucydides on the Greek Factions (Vol. vii., p. 594.; Vol. viii., pp. 44. 137.).--My
attempt to find the passage attributed by Sir A. Alison to Thucydides in the real Thucydides
was unsuccessful for the best of reasons, viz. that it does not exist there. He has probably
borrowed it from some modern author, who, as it appears to me, has given a loose paraphrase
of the words which I cited from Thucyd. III. 82., and has expanded the thought in a manner
not uncommon with some writers, by adding the expression about the "sword and poniard." Some
other misquotations of Sir A. Alison from the classical writers may be seen in the Edinburgh
Review for April last, No. CXCVIII. p. 275.

L.

Origin of "Clipper" as applied to Vessels (Vol. viii., p. 100.).--For many years the fleetest
sailing vessels built in the United States were {399} constructed at Baltimore. They were very
sharp, long, low; and their masts were inclined at a much greater angle than usual with those
in other vessels. Fast sailing pilot boats and schooners were thus rigged; and in the last
war with England, privateers of the Baltimore build were universally famed for their swiftness
and superior sailing qualities. "A Baltimore clipper" became the expression among shipbuilders
for a vessel of peculiar make; in the construction of which, fleetness was considered of more
importance than a carrying capacity. When the attention of naval architects was directed to
the construction of swift sailing ships, they were compelled to adopt the clipper shape. Hence
the title "Clipper Ship," which has now extended from America to England.

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

Passage in Tennyson (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--In the third edition of In Memoriam, LXXXIX., 1850,
the last line mentioned by W. T. M. is "Flits by the sea-blue bird of March," instead of "blue
sea-bird." This reading appears to be a better one. I would suggest that the bird meant by
Tennyson was the Tom-tit, who, from his restlessness, may be said to flit among the bushes.

F. M. MIDDLETON.

Huet's Navigations of Solomon (Vol. vii., p. 381.).--This work of the learned Bishop of Avranches
was written in Latin, and translated into French by J. B. Desrockes de Parthenay. It forms
part of the second volume of a collection of treatises edited by Bruzen de la Martinière, under
the title of Traités Géographiques et Historiques pour faciliter l'intelligence de l'Ecriture
Sainte, par divers auteurs célèbres, 1730, 2 vols. 12mo.

I am unable to reply to EDINA's second Query, as to the result of Huet's assertions.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

Sincere (Vol. viii., pp. 195. 328.).--The derivation of this word from sine cerâ appears very
fanciful. If this were the correct derivation, we should expect to find sinecere, for the e
would scarcely be dropped; just as we have the English word sinecure, which is the only compound
of the preposition sine I know; and is itself not a Latin word, but of a later coinage. Some
give as the derivation semel and [Greek: keraô]--that is, once mixed, without adulteration;
the [Greek: e] being lengthened, as the Greek [Greek: akêratos]. The proper spelling would
then be simcerus, and euphonically sincerus: thus we have sim-plex, which does not mean without
a fold, but (semel plico, [Greek: plekô]) once folded. So also singulus, semel and termination.
The proper meaning may be from tablets, ceratæ tabellæ, which were "once smeared with wax"
and then written upon; they were then sinceræ, without forgery or deception. If they were in
certain places covered with wax again, for the purpose of adding something secretly and deceptively,
they cease to be sinceræ.

J. T. JEFFCOCK.

[Pi]. [Beta]. asks me for some authority for the alleged practice of Roman potters (or crock-vendors)
to rub wax into the flaws of their unsound vessels. This was the very burden of my Query! I
am no proficient in the Latin classics: yet I think I know enough to predicate that [Pi]. [Beta].
is wrong in his version of the line--

  "Sincerum est nisi vas, quodcunque infundis acescit."

I understand this line as referring to the notorious fact, that some liquors turn sour if the
air gets to them from without. "Sincerum vas" is a sound or air-tight vessel. Dryden, no doubt,
knew the radical meaning of sincere when he wrote the lines cited by Johnson:

  "He try'd a tough well-chosen spear;
  Th' inviolable body stood sincere."

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

The Saltpetre Man (Vol. viii., p. 225.).--In addition to the curious particulars of this office,
I send you an extract from Abp. Laud's Diary:

    "December 13, Monday. I received letters from Brecknock; that the
    saltpeter man was dead and buried the Sunday before the messenger
    came. This saltpeter man had digged in the Colledge Church for his
    work, bearing too bold upon his commission. The news of it came to me
    to London about November 26. I went to my Lord Keeper, and had a
    messenger sent to bring him up to answer that sacrilegious abuse. He
    prevented his punishment by death."

JOHN S. BURN.

Major André (Vol. viii., p. 174.).--There is in the picture gallery of Yale College, New Haven,
Conn., an original sketch of Major André, executed by himself with pen and ink, and without
the aid of a glass. It was drawn in his guard-room on the morning of the day first fixed for
his execution.

J. E.

Longevity (Vol. viii., p. 182.).--A DOUBTER is informed that the National Intelligencer (published
at Washington, and edited by Messrs. Gales and Seaton) is the authority for my statement respecting
Mrs. Singleton, and her advanced age. If A DOUBTER is desirous of satisfying himself more fully
respecting its correctness, he has but {400} to write to the above-named gentlemen, or to the
English Consul at Charleston, S. C., and his wish will doubtless be gratified. I cannot but
hope that your correspondent's "fifty cents worth of reasons" for doubting my statement is
now, or shortly will be, removed.

If A DOUBTER intends to be in New York while the present Exhibition is open, he will have an
opportunity of seeing a negro of the age of one hundred and twenty-four, who once belonged
to General Washington, and from whom he could very possibly obtain some information respecting
the aged "nurse" of the first President of the United States mentioned in his note.

W. W.

Malta.

Passage in Virgil (Vol. viii., p. 370.).--The passage for which your correspondent R. FITZSIMONS
makes inquiry is to be found in the Eighth Eclogue, at the 44th and following lines:

  "Nunc scio quid sit Amor," &c.

The application by Johnson seems to be so plain as to need no explanation.

F. B--W.

Love Charm from a Foal's Forehead (Vol. viii., p. 292.).--Your correspondent H. P. will find
the love charm, consisting of a fig-shaped excrescence on a foal's forehead, and called Hippomanes,
alluded to by Juvenal, Sat. VI. 133.:

  "Hippomanes, carmenque loquar, coctumque venenum,
  Privignoque datum?"

It was supposed that the dam swallowed this excrescence immediately on the birth of her foal,
and that, if prevented doing so, she lost all affection for it.

However, the name Hippomanes was applied to two other things. Theocritus (II. 48.) uses it
to signify some herb which incites horses to madness if they eat of it.

And again, Virgil (Geor. III. 280.), Propertius, Tibullus, Ovid, &c., represent it as a certain
virus:

  "Hippomanes cupidæ stillat ab inguine equæ."

The subject is an unpleasant one, and H. P. is referred for farther information to Pliny, VIII.
42. s. 66., and XXVIII. 11. s. 80.

H. C. K.

This lump was called Hippomanes; which also more truly designated, according to Virgil, another
thing. The following paragraphs from Mr. Keightley's excellent Notes on Virgil's Bucolics and
Georgics will fully explain both meanings:

    "Hippomanes, horse-rage: the pale yellow fluid which passes from a
    mare at that season [i. e. when she is horsing] (cf. Tibul. II. 4.
    58.), of which the smell (aura, v. 251.) incites the horse.

    "Vero nomine. Because the bit of flesh which was said to be on the
    forehead of the new-born foal, and which the mare was supposed to
    swallow, was called by the same name (see Æn. IV. 515.); and also a
    plant in Arcadia (Theocr. II. 48.). With respect to the former
    Hippomanes, Pliny, who detailed truth and falsehood with equal faith,
    says (VIII. 42.) that it grows on the foal's forehead; is of the size
    of a dried fig (carica), and of a black colour; and that if the mare
    does not swallow it immediately, she will not let the foal suck her.
    Aristotle (H. A., VIII. 24.) says this is merely an old wives' tale.
    He mentions, however, the [Greek: pôlion], or bit of livid flesh, which
    we call the foal's bit, and which he says the mare ejects before the
    foal."--Notes, &c., p. 273. on Georgic. III. 280. ff.

With regard to the plant called Hippomanes, commentators, as may be seen from Kiessling's note
on Theocritus, ii. 48., are by no means agreed. Certainly Andrews, in his edition of Freund,
is wrong in referring Virgil Georgic. III. 283. to that meaning. The use of legere probably misled.

E. S. JACKSON.

Wardhouse, where was? (Vol. viii., p. 78.).--It probably is the same as Wardoehuus or Vardoehus,
a district and town in Norwegian Finmark, on the shores of the Arctic Ocean, inhabited principally
by fishermen.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Wallington.

Divining Rod (Vol. viii., p. 293.).--The inquirer should read the statement made by Dr. Herbert
Mayo, in his letters On the Truths contained in Popular Superstitions, 1851, pp. 3-21. To the
facts there recorded I may add, that I have heard Mr. Dawson Turner relate that he himself
saw the experiment of the divining rod satisfactorily carried out in the hands of Lady Noel
Byron; and some account of it is to be found, I believe, in an article by Sir F. Palgrave,
in the Quarterly Review.

[mu].

Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle (Vol. viii., p. 271.).--His arms are engraved on a plate dedicated
to him by Willis, in his Survey of the Cathedrals of England, 1742, vol. i. p. 284., and appear
thus, Argent, on a chevron gules, three besants; but in a MS. collection by the late Canon
Rowling of Lichfield, relating to bishops' arms, I find his coat thus given,--Argent, on a
chevron engrailed gules, three besants. The variation may have arisen from an error of the
engraver. It appears from Willis that Dr. Waugh was a fellow of Queen's College, Oxford; and
the entry of his matriculation would no doubt show in what part of England his family resided.

[mu].

Pagoda (Vol. v., p. 415.).--The European word pagoda is most probably derived, by transposition
of the syllables, from da-go-ba, which is the Pali or Sanscrit name for a Budhist temple. It
appears probable that the Portuguese first adopted the word in Ceylon, the modern holy isle
of Budhism.

PH.

Rangoon.

  OSWALLI CROLLII OPERA. 12mo. Geneva, 1635.

  JAMES' NAVAL HISTORY. Vols. III., IV., and V. 8vo. 6-Vol. Edition by
      Bentley.

                  Wanted by Mr. J. Howes, Stonham-Aspall, Suffolk.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MONUMENTS AND GENII OF ST. PAUL'S AND WESTMINSTER ABBEY, by G. L. Smith.
      London. J. Williams. 1826. Vol. I.

                  Wanted by Charles Reed, Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DR. PETTINGALL'S TRACT ON JURY TRIAL, 1769.

                  Wanted by Mr. T. Stephens, Merthyr Tydfil.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HISTORY OF THE OLD AND NEW TESTAMENT, by Prideaux. Vol. I. 1717-18.

  HISTORICAL MEMOIRS OF QUEENS OF ENGLAND, by Hannah Lawrence. Vol. II.

  BRYAN'S DICTIONARY OF PAINTERS AND ENGRAVERS.

  JARDINE'S NATURALIST'S LIBRARY. First Edition. All except first 13
      Volumes.

  PETER SIMPLE. Illustrated Edition. Saunders and Otley. Vols. II. and III.

  HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF SOMERSETSHIRE, by Rev. W. Phelps. 1839. All
      except Parts I., II., III., V., VI., VII., and VIII.

                  Wanted by John Garland, Solicitor, Dorchester.

We have just received the following communication:

"Binocular Compound Microscope.--Will you allow me an exiguum of your periodical for the purpose
of explaining a seeming plagiarism at page 32. of my Essay on the Stereoscope? I have just
seen, for the first time, the October number of the Journal of Microscopical Science, whereby
I learn that Mr. Wenham and Mr. Riddell have anticipated me in the theory of the Binocular
Compound Microscope. Up to this time I was not aware of the fact that the subject had received
the attention it deserves, and my own suggestions, founded upon a series of careful experiments
made during the last eight months, were thrown out for the simple purpose of calling attention
to the utility and practicability of a Binocular Compound Microscope.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham."

OLD GRUMBLETON.--We believe the real origin of the phrase By hook or by crook to be the "right
of taking fire-bote by hook or by crook," as explained in "N. & Q.," Vol. i., p. 405. Much
curious illustration of the phrase will be found in our earlier volumes.

H. H. (Glasgow). We cannot give the receipt you ask for. Brunswick black, which you will have
no difficulty in procuring, answers very well.

PONDERS END.--The syllable ness, in Sheerness, is the French nez and the Danish næs, "a point
or tongue of land."

W. J. E. C. has, we fear, only lately become a reader of "N. & Q.," or he would have remembered
the numerous communications in our pages on the subject of the pronunciation of Cowper's name.
The poet was called Cooper.

SOL. Sir D. Brewster's Treatise on Optics, price 3s. 6d., published by Longman.

A PARTY WHO WON'T, &c. We are sorry to say we cannot alter the arrangement referred to.

W. S. S. E. It is impossible for us to undertake to insert a Query in the same week in which
it is received.

P. T. (Stoke Newington). The communication respecting the Cotton Family has been forwarded
to R. W. C.

J. M. will find his Query respecting Après moi le Déluge has been anticipated by Mr. Douglas
Jerrold in our 3rd Vol., p. 299. Proofs of its antiquity are given in the same volume, p. 397.

Errata.--Vol. viii., p. 132. col. 2. l. 14., for "Britannica" read "Britannia;" p. 280. col.
2. l. 5., for "lower" read "cower;" p. 315. col. 1. l. ult., for "Sprawley" read "Shrawley;"
p. 360. col. 1. l. 35., dele "Hamsah;" p. 364. col. 2. l. 27., for "1653" read "1753." {402}

       *       *       *       *       *

APPARATUS FOR INSTRUCTION IN SCIENCE.--Special Report on Grants to aid in the Purchase of Apparatus
for Instruction in Science. By the REV. H. MOSELEY, M.A., F.R.S., Her Majesty's Inspector of
Schools, &c., Jan. 5th, 1853.--Minutes of the Committee of Council on Education.

JOHN J. GRIFFIN, F.C.S., begs to announce to Schoolmasters and the friends of Scientific Education,
that the APPARATUS described in the above Report, as of his Manufacture, is arranged for Public
Inspection at his Establishments, No. 10. Finsbury Square, and 119. & 120.

Advertisements received until the 21st.

       *       *       *       *       *

Collection of Autograph Letters.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTER FROM HANDWRITING.--MR. WARREN, of 9. Great College Street, Westminster, continues,
with great success, to Delineate the Character of Individuals from their Handwriting. All Persons
desirous of testing his Art, are invited to forward a Specimen of their ordinary Writing, together
with Thirteen Postage Stamps, and a mention of their Sex and Age, to the above Address.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAFNESS, CHRONIC OR ACUTE NERVOUS DEAFNESS, SINGING NOISES AND PAINS IN THE EARS.

A NEW DISCOVERY FOR RESTORING HEARING, proved to be perfectly infallible, by which many thousands
of sufferers have been instantly enabled to hear the human voice in a low tone without causing
one instant's pain, inconvenience, or trouble to a child, or aged nervous sufferer of either
sex. This truly important discovery for the cure of deafness, obviating as it does all the
former dangerous and fatal operations, has been made by the eminent aurist, DR. DAVID THOMAS,
ten years Consulting Surgeon, at 14. Stroud Street, Dover, the first application of which gives
immediate relief, restoring the hearing in the most confirmed stages of deafness, whether from
old age, nervousness, or any predisposing cause, to which children and adults are subject,
and from which deafness follows the heavy affliction of noises in the head and ears, immediately
removed by its use. Each sufferer can apply it himself: the proof and result being instantly
convincing, as it enables the previously deaf person to hear common tone conversation, who
before could only be made to hear by loud shouting in the ear, or by means of a powerful ear-trumpet.
It has been applied by the Doctor on hundreds of suffering applicants at most of the ear infirmaries
and hospitals, with perfect success, and in many thousands of cases to whom he has sent it
many had not heard the human voice for half their life, and some not at all, who by its use
alone are now perfectly restored to hearing and the society of their fellow-creatures, and
enabled to hear distinctly in a place of worship.--Applicants who send a written statement
of their case by letter, inclosing postage stamps or money order for 7s. 6d., directed to DR.
DAVID THOMAS, M.R.C.S.L., 14. Stroud Street, Dover, Kent, will receive the means of cure by
return of post, with full directions for use. Personal consultation for deafness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, 12mo. cloth, 5s. Second Edition.

MANUAL OF ASTRONOMY, by JOHN DREW, F.R.A.S., Ph. D.--This work, which is illustrated by 70
engravings on wood and stone, is intended for readers who are not extensively acquainted with
mathematics. It conveys a general knowledge of the stupendous phenomena of nature, including
all the modern discoveries down to the present time; directs those who possess telescopes how
to use them, what objects to look for in the heavens, and where they are to be found; and gives
familiar directions for the use and adjustment of the transit instrument, astronomical circle,
and equatorial. It is peculiarly fitted for a text-book in schools, and is a good introduction
for those who wish to obtain a knowledge of the present state of astronomical science.

    "A very good little manual, with a number of well-engraved maps and
    diagrams, and written in a brief and clear style, yet with sufficient
    fulness to preserve it from dryness."--Guardian.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Second Edition, considerably enlarged, 14s.

VARRONIANUS: a Critical and Historical Introduction to the Ethnography of Ancient Italy, and
the Philological Study of the Latin Language. By J. W. DONALDSON, D.D., Head Master of King
Edward's Grammar School, Bury St. Edmund's.

By the same Author, Second Edition, 8vo. much enlarged, 18s.

THE NEW CRATYLUS; Contributions towards a more Accurate Knowledge of the Greek Language.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON. Cambridge: DEIGHTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cheap Editions, crown 8vo., 4s. 6d. each, of

ARCHBISHOP WHATELY'S LOGIC.

WHATELY'S RHETORIC.

Also, demy 8vo. Editions of WHATELY'S LOGIC AND RHETORIC (10s. 6d. each); printed uniformly
with the Author's other Works.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Post 8vo., 6s.

THEOPHILI EPISCOPI ANTIOCHENSIS LIBRI TRES AD AUTOLYCUM. Edidit Prolegomenis Versione Notulis
Indicibus Instruxit GULIELMUS GILSON HUMPHRY, S.T.B., Collegi Sanctiss. Trin. Ap. Cantabrigienses
Socius. Jussu Syndicorum Preli Academici, Cantabrigiæ.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRABB'S DICTIONARY.

The Fifth Edition, corrected, enlarged, and brought down to the present time, by the REV. HENRY
DAVIS, M.A., illustrated with 700 Engravings. Crown 8vo., cloth, price 9s.

A DICTIONARY OF GENERAL KNOWLEDGE, comprising an Explanation of Words and Things connected
with Literature and Science, &c., by GEORGE CRABB, A.M.

London: WILLIAM TEGG & CO., 85. Queen Street, Cheapside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published,

THE SHAKSPEARE REPOSITORY, No. IV., price Fourpence; or by post on receipt of Six Stamps, containing
the following highly interesting Articles:---viz. Shakspeare and the Spanish Invasion--Shakspeare,
the Poet Catholic--Old Notes on Shakspeare (now first published)--Bartholomew Fair in Edward
the Second's Reign--German Works on Shakspeare, &c. &c.

Published by JAMES H. FENNELL, 1. Warwick Court, Holborn, London.

SMALL SET, price 7l. 7s., containing every requisite for taking Landscapes and Pictures of
inanimate objects, to a size not exceeding 7 by 6 inches.

LARGE SET, price 11l., for Pictures up to 10 by 8 inches.--N. B. A Collodion Picture made by
each set is given with it, to show the quality of the Lenses.

Every article for taking either Landscapes or Portraits on Silver, Paper, or Glass, may be
had of the undersigned. An illustrated priced Catalogue of Photographic Apparatus, price 3d.,
Post Free.

JOHN J. GRIFFIN, Chemist and Optician. 10. Finsbury Square (Manufactory, 119. and 120. Bunhill
Row), removed from Baker Street, London. {404}

       *       *       *       *       *

CHEAP AND POPULAR EDITIONS OF STANDARD AUTHORS.

  ABERCROMBIE'S INTELLECTUAL POWERS. 6s. 6d.

  ABERCROMBIE ON THE MORAL FEELINGS. 4s.

  DAVY'S SALMONIA. 6s.

  DAVY'S CONSOLATIONS IN TRAVEL. 6s.

  REV. GEORGE CRABBE'S LIFE. 3s.

  COLERIDGE'S TABLE-TALK. 6s.

  COLERIDGE'S GREEK CLASSIC POETS. 5s. 6d.

  BELL ON THE HAND. 7s. 6d.

  LAYARD'S POPULAR ACCOUNT OF NINEVEH. 5s.

  WILKINSON'S POPULAR ACCOUNT OF THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS. (Shortly.)

  JESSE'S GLEANINGS IN NATURAL HISTORY. 6s. 6d.

  JESSE'S SCENES AND OCCUPATIONS OF COUNTRY LIFE. (Shortly.)

  PHILOSOPHY IN SPORT. 7s. 6d.

  SOMERVILLE'S PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 10s. 6d.

  SOMERVILLE'S PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 12s.

  JAMES' EDITION OF ÆSOP'S FABLES. 2s. 6d.

  HEBER'S POETICAL WORKS. 7s. 6d.

  REJECTED ADDRESSES. 5s.

  BYRON'S POETICAL WORKS. 8 vols. 2s. 6d. each.

  MAHON'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 5 vols. 6s. each.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE.

CHEAP RE-ISSUE OF EVELYN'S DIARY AND CORRESPONDENCE.

    "This work is a necessary companion to the popular histories of our
    country--to Hume, Hallam, Macaulay, and Lingard."--Sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

MURRAY'S RAILWAY READING.

This Day, with Woodcuts, fcap. 8vo., 1s.

HISTORY OF THE GUILLOTINE. By the RIGHT HON. JOHN WILSON CROKER. Reprinted, with Additions,
from "The Quarterly Review."

The last Volume published, contained--

ANCIENT SPANISH BALLADS: HISTORICAL AND ROMANTIC. By J. G. LOCKHART.

To be followed by-- POPULAR ACCOUNT OF THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS. By SIR J. G. WILKINSON. With
500 Woodcuts.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, demy 8vo. pp. 129, price 2s. 6d.

THE PRISON AND THE SCHOOL. The Chief ascertained Causes of Crime considered, with Suggestions
for the Care, Relief, and Reformation of the Neglected, Destitute, and Criminal Children of
the Metropolis. By EDMUND EDWARD ANTROBUS, F.S.A., Justice of the Peace for the County of Middlesex,
and City and Liberty of Westminster; Visiting Justice of the House of Correction, Westminster.

London: STAUNTON & SONS, 9. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, post 8vo., cloth, price 6s. 6d.

CURIOSITIES OF LONDON LIFE; or Phases, Physiological and Social, of the Great Metropolis. By
C. M. SMITH, Author of "The Working Man's Way in the World." May be had at all the Libraries.

Just published, post 8vo., cloth, price 5s.

THE WORKING MAN'S WAY IN THE WORLD; or the AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A JOURNEYMAN PRINTER.

London: W.& F. G. CASH, 5.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW EDITION OF THE ANABASIS BY ARNOLD AND BROWNE.

Now ready, in 12mo., price 6s. 6d.

XENOPHON'S ANABASIS.

RIVINGTONS, Waterloo Place.

Lately published, by the same Editor, VIRGILII ÆNEIS. With English Notes from Dübner. 6s.

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP BUTLER'S REMAINS.

In 8vo., price 1s. 6d. (by post 1s.

RIVINGTONS, Waterloo Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIFFERI AND TURNER'S NEW INTRODUCTION TO ITALIAN.

In 12mo., price 5s. 6d.

THE FIRST ITALIAN BOOK: on the Plan of the REV. T. K. ARNOLD'S First French Book. By SIGNOR
PIFFERI, Professor of Italian, and DAWSON W. TURNER, M.A., Head Master of the Royal Institution
School, Liverpool.

RIVINGTONS, Waterloo Place.

Of whom may be had, by the late REV. T. K. ARNOLD, M.A.

1. THE FIRST FRENCH BOOK, on the Plan of Henry's First Latin Book. Third Edition. 5s. 6d.

2. THE FIRST GERMAN BOOK, upon the same Plan. Third Edition. 5s. 6d. 1853.

