"Short red, god red."--In Roger of Wendover's Chronicle, Bohn's edition, vol. i. p. 345., is
a story how Walchere, Bishop of Durham, was slain in his county court, A.D. 1075, by the suitors
on the instigation of one who cried out in his native tongue "Schort red, god red, slea ye
the bischop."

Sir Walter Scott, in his Tales of a Grandfather (vol. i. p. 85.), tells the same story of a
Bishop of Caithness who was burned for enforcing tithes in the reign of Alexander II. of Scotland
(about 1220).

What authority is there for the latter story? Did Sir Walter confound the two bishops, or did
he add the circumstance for the amusement of Hugh Littlejohn? Was this the formula usually
adopted on such occasions? How came the Caithness people to speak such good Saxon?

G.

Overseers of Wills.--I have copies of several wills of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries,
in {501} which one set of persons are appointed executors and another overseers. What were
the rights and duties of these latter?

J. K.

Lepel's Regiment.--Can your correspondent MR. ARTHUR HAMILTON inform me what is the regiment
known in 1707 as Lepel's Regiment? It was a cavalry regiment, I believe.

J. K.

Vincent Family.--Can any of your correspondents give me any information respecting the descendants
of Francis Vincent, grandson of Augustine Vincent, Rouge Croix Pursuivant at Arms. His sister
Elizabeth has, or had very lately, a representative in the person of Francis Offley Edmunds
of Worsborough, Yorkshire; but nowhere have I been able to obtain any information respecting
himself. If you could give any information on this subject, you would much oblige

C. WILSON.

Passage in the First Part of Faust.--

 "Faust. Es Klopft? Herein! Wer will mich wieder plagen?
  Mephistopheles. Ich bin's.
  Faust. Herein!
  Mephis. Du musst es dreimal sagen.
  Faust. Herein denn!
  Mephis. So gefällst du mir."

Why must he say it three times? Is this a superstition that can be traced in other countries
than Germany? In Horace we have Diana thus addressed:

 "Ter vocata audis, adimisque letho,
  Diva triformis."--Lib. iii. Ode 22.

But she is there the benign Diana, not Hecate.

Are we to understand the passage to mean, that the number three has a magical influence in
summoning spirits; or to teach that the power of evil is so overruled by a higher Power, that
he cannot approach to begin his work of temptation and ruin unless he be, not once merely,
or twice, but three times, called by the free will and act of the individual who is surrendering
himself to his influence? The subject seems worthy of elucidation.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Lady Anne Gray.--Who was the "Lady Anne Gray," or "Lady Gray," who was one of the attendants
on Queen Elizabeth when princess, and is mentioned first in Sir John Harrington's poem in praise
of her ladies?

N. A.

Continental Brasses.--At a recent meeting of the Archæological Institute, Mr. Nesbitt exhibited
rubbings of some fine brasses at Bamberg, Naumberg, Meissen, and Erfurt. Mr. Nesbitt would
confer a favour on the readers of "N. & Q." by stating the names and dates of those sepulchral
memorials, and the churches from which he obtained the rubbings, and thus aid in carrying out
MR. W. SPARROW SIMPSON'S excellent suggestion for obtaining a complete list of monumental brasses
on the Continent.

WILLIAM W. KING.

Peter Beaver.--In the early part of the last century, a gentleman named Peter Beaver, whose
daughter was married in 1739 to Latham Blacker, Esq., of Rathescar, lived in the old and fashionable
town of Drogheda. Can any one inform me as to the year of his death, and whether he left a
son? The name has disappeared in Drogheda. I would likewise be glad to know the origin of the
name; and, if it be a corruption of Beauvoir, at what time, and for what reason, was it changed?
The crest is the animal of the same name.

ABHBA.

Cremonas.--Can any of your numerous correspondents kindly supply me with a list of the earliest
and the latest of the instruments of each of the famous cremona makers? Such a list would be
a valuable contribution to "N. & Q."

Mr. Dubourg's work on the Violin, excellent as it is in many respects, contains but a meagre
account of the instrument itself, and is sadly deficient on the subject of my Query. May I
ask him, and I have reason for so doing, on what authority he gives 1664 as the year of the
birth of Antonius Stradivarius, in his last edition?

H. C. K.

Cranmer and Calvin.--In the Christian Observer for March 1827 (No. 303. p. 150.) it is stated
that the late Rev. T. Brock, of Guernsey, had been assured by an eminent scholar of Geneva,
afterwards a clergyman in our church, that he had met with, in a public library at Geneva,
a printed correspondence in Latin between Archbishop Cranmer and Calvin, in which the latter
forewarned the former, that though he perfectly understood the meaning of the baptismal service,
yet "the time would come when" it "would be misconceived, and received as implying that baptism
absolutely conveyed regeneration;" and that Cranmer replied, "that it is not possible such
a construction can be put upon the passage, the church having sufficiently explained her meaning
in the Articles and elsewhere." I have heard that search was made for these documents by M.
D'Aubigné and others, but without success; one of the reports being, that "the documents had
been apparently cut out." Mr. Brock's informant, I hear, was a Rev. Marc De Joux, who afterwards
became an Irvingite, left Guernsey, and went to the Mauritius, where it is believed he still
resides. With the theological question I wish not here to meddle, or to express an opinion.
But I should be glad if you will kindly permit me to inquire whether any of your readers can
give any information as to the existence of the supposed "printed" correspondence {502} referred
to? whether or not it does exist? and, if so, where?

C. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

"A Letter to a Convocation Man" (Vol. vii., pp. 358. 415.).--I beg to thank "N. & Q." for the
answer to my inquiry respecting the authorship of this letter. I should be very glad to learn
further particulars respecting Sir Bartholomew Shower. Was he a member of the House of Commons,
as the author of the Letter intimates that he himself was? I shall also be very thankful if
TYRO, or any other correspondent, will answer for me these Queries, suggested by the same Letter.

    "It was the opinion, indeed, of a late great preacher, that
    Christians under a Mahometan or Pagan government, ought to value the
    peace of the country above the conversion of the people there."

Who is the preacher here referred to?

Who were the authors, and what were the titles of the many Defences of Sherlock's Vindication
of the Holy and Ever Blessed Trinity, and The Divinity and Death of Christ? *

And what farther is to be learned of Mr. Papin, a Socinian, who jointed the Church of Rome
about that period? +

Who was Chief Justice in 1697? Was it Chief Justice Treby? ++

Trelawney, Bishop of Exeter, excommunicated Dr. Bury. When was the living the latter enjoyed
"untouched and even unquestioned by another bishop?" §

In case the answers to these should not appear of sufficient importance to be put into type,
I enclose an envelope.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

P.S.--The misprint you point out, Vol. vii., p. 409., of Oxoniensis for Exoniensis, occurred
in the Appendix to Wake's State of the Church and Clergy of England, p. 4.

    [* The titles of nearly twenty works relating to Sherlock's Trinitarian
    Controversy will be found s. v. in the Bodleian Catalogue, vol.
    iii. p. 462. See also Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica.

    + A long account of Mr. Papin is given in Rose's as well as in
    Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary.

    ++ Sir George Treby was Chief Justice of Common Pleas in 1697.

    § Bishop Trelawney, it appears, suspended Dr. Arthur Bury from the
    rectorship of Exeter College for some heterodox notions in his work,
    The Naked Gospel. The affair was carried by appeal from the King's
    Bench to the House of Lords, when Bishop Stillingfleet delivered a
    speech on the "Case of Visitation of Colleges," printed in his
    Ecclesiastical Cases, part ii. p. 411. Wood states that Dr. Bury was
    soon after restored. For an account of this controversy, and the works
    relating to it, see Gough's British Topography, vol. ii. p. 147., and
    Wood's Athenæ (Bliss), vol. iv. p. 483.

    Any farther communications on the above Queries shall be forwarded to
    the correspondent.]

Prester John.--I should be glad, through the medium of "N. & Q.," to be favoured with some
information relative to this mysterious personage.

STRATH CLYDE.

    [The history of Prester John, or of the individuals bearing that
    appellation, appears involved in considerable confusion and obscurity.
    Most of our Encyclopædias contain notices of this mysterious personage,
    especially Rees's, and Collier's Great Historical Dictionary. "The
    fame of Prester or Presbyter John," says Gibbon, "a khan, whose
    power was vainly magnified by the Nestorian missionaries, and who is
    said to have received at their hands the rite of baptism, and even of
    ordination, has long amused the credulity of Europe. In its long
    progress to Mosul, Jerusalem, Rome, &c., the story of Prester John
    evaporated into a monstrous fable, of which some features have been
    borrowed from the Lama of Thibet (Hist. Généaologique des Tartares,
    part ii. p. 42.; Hist. de Gengiscan, p. 31. &c.), and were ignorantly
    transferred by the Portuguese to the emperor of Abyssinia (Ludolph.
    Hist. Æthop. Comment. l. ii. c. 1.). Yet is is probable that, in the
    twelfth and thirteenth centuries, Nestorian Christianity was professed
    in the horde of the Keraites."]

Homer's Iliad in a Nut.--On the tomb of those celebrated gardeners, Tradescant father and son,
these lines occur in the course of the inscription:

 "Whilst they (as Homer's Iliad in a nut),
  A World of Wonders in one closet shut."

Will you explain the comparison implied in the words "as Homer's Iliad in a nut?"

DAVID.

    [It refers to the account given by Pliny, vii. 21., that the Iliad
    was copied in so small a hand, that the whole work could lie in a
    walnut-shell: "In nuce inclusam Iliada Homeri carmen, in membrana
    scriptum tradidit Cicero." Pliny's authority is Cicero apvd Gellium,
    ix. 421. See M. Huet's account of a similar experiment in Gentleman's
    Magazine, vol. xxxix. p. 347.]

Monogram of Parker Society.--What is the meaning of the monogram adopted by the Parker Society
on all their publications?

TYRO.

    [The monogram is "MATTHEW PARKER," Archbishop of Canterbury in the
    reign of Queen Elizabeth.]

The Five Alls.--Can any of your readers give me an interpretation of a sign on an inn in Oxford,
which bears this inscription?

    "THE FIVE ALLS."

I can make nothing of it.

CURIOSUS.

Oxford.

    [Captain Grose shall interpret this Query. He says, "The Five Alls is a
    country sign, representing five human figures, each having a motto. The
    first is a king in his regalia, 'I govern all.' The second, a {503}
    bishop in pontificals, 'I pray for all.' Third, a lawyer in his gown,
    'I plead for all.' Fourth, a soldier in his regimentals, 'I fight for
    all.' Fifth, a poor countryman with his scythe and rake, 'I pay for
    all!'"]

Corvizer.--In a deed of the middle of the last century, I find this addition to the name of
a person residing at Conway. The word is similarly employed in a list of interments of some
"common people," contained in Browne Willis's account of Bangor Cathedral. What does it mean,
and whence is it derived?

H. B.

Bangor.

    [An obsolete word for a cordwainer or shoemaker. See Ash's
    Dictionary.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

ENGLISH COMEDIANS IN GERMANY. 360.)

In 1605 the English comedians first appeared in Prussia. In October they performed before the
Duchess Maria Eleonora at Koningsberg, for which they were well paid; they then proceeded to
Elbing, whence they were dismissed with twenty thalers, since they produced scandalous things
("weil sie schandbare Dinge fürgebracht"). In 1607, they were again sent away, after they had
performed the preceding year at Rostock. Some time after, the Elector of Brandenburg, Joh.
Sigismund, employed a certain noble, Hans von Stockfisch, to obtain a theatrical company from
England and the Netherlands. A troop of nineteen comedians, under the direction of John Spencer,
came with sixteen musicians to add lustre to the electoral feasts. In 1611, they received 720
marks, as well as many hundred ells of various stuffs for costumes and decorations; of which
great quantities were used in 1612. Many a time was it necessary to ransom them at great cost
from inns and lodging-houses; so that the prince, in 1613, resolved to rid himself of these
dear guests, and gave them a recommendation to the Elector of Saxony. In 1616 we find them
in Dantzic, where they gave eight representations; and two years later, the Electress of Brandenburg,
through Hans von Stockfisch, procured eighteen comedians, who performed at Elbing, Koningsberg,
and other places, and were paid for their trouble ("für ihre gehabte Mühe eins für alles")
200 Polish guilders.

In 1639, English comedians are again found in Koningsberg; and, for the last time, in 1650,
at Vienna, where William Roe, John Waide, Gideon, Gellius, and Robert Casse, obtained a license
from Ferdinand I.

In 1620 appeared a volume of Englische Comedien und Tragedien, &c. (2nd edit., 1624), which
was followed by a second; and in 1670 by a third: in which last, however, the English element
is not so prominent.

These statements of Dr. Hagen are confirmed by numerous quotations from original documents,
published by him in the Neue Preuss. Provincial Blätter, Koningsb., 1850, vol. x.; vid. et
Gesch. der Deuts. Schauspielk., by E. Devrient, Leipzic, 1848. Professor Hagen maintains, that
in the beginning of the seventeenth century, the English comedies were performed in Dutch;
and that, in Germany, the same persons were called indifferently English or Dutch comedians.
They were Englishmen who had found shelter under the English trading companies in the Netherlands
("Es waren Engländer die in den englischen Handelscompagnien in den Niederlanden ein Unterkommen
gefunden.")--From the Navorscher.

J. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GENTLEMAN EXECUTED FOR WHIPPING A SLAVE TO DEATH.

(Vol. vii., p. 107.)

The occurrence noticed by W. W. is, I believe, the only instance on record in the West Indies
of the actual execution of a gentleman for the murder, by shipping or otherwise, of a slave.
Nor is this strange. In the days of slavery every owner of slaves was regarded in the light
of a gentleman, and his "right to do what he liked with his own" was seldom called in question
by judges or juries, who were themselves among the principal shareholders. The case of Hodge
was, however, of an aggravated character. For the trivial offence of stealing a mango, he had
caused one of his slaves to be whipped to death; and this was, perhaps, the least shocking
of the repeated acts of cruelty which he was known to have committed upon the slaves of his estate.

During slavery each colony had its Hodge, and some had more than one. The most conspicuous
character of this kind in St. Lucia was Jacques O'Neill de Tyrone, a gentleman who belonged
to an Irish family, originally settled in Martinique, and who boasted of his descent from one
of the ancient kings of Ireland. This man had long been notorious for his cruelty to his slaves.
At last, on the surrender of the colony to the British in 1803, the attention of the authorities
was awakened; a charge of murder was brought against him, and he was sentenced to death. From
this sentence he appealed to a higher court; but such was the state of public feeling at the
bare idea of putting a white man to death for any offence against a slave, that for a long
time the members of the court could not be induced to meet; and when they did meet, it was
only to reverse the sentence of the court below. I have now before me the proceedings of both
courts. {504} The sentence of the inferior court, presided over by an European judge, is based
upon the clearest evidence of O'Neill's having caused two of his slaves to be murdered in his
presence, and their heads cut off and stuck upon poles as a warning to the others. The sentence
of the Court of Appeal, presided over by a brother planter, and entirely composed of planters,
reverses the sentence, without assigning any reason for its decision, beyond the mere allegations
of the accused party. Such was criminal justice in the days of slavery!

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONGEVITY.

(Vol. vii., p. 358., &c.)

On looking over some volumes of the Annual Register, from its commencement in 1758, I find
instances of longevity very common, if we can credit its reports. In vol. iv., for the year
1761, amongst the deaths, of which there are many between 100 and 110, the following occur:

    January. "At Philadelphia, Mr. Charles Cottrell, aged 120 years; and
    three days after, his wife, aged 115. This couple lived together in the
    marriage state 98 years in great union and harmony."

    April. "Mrs. Gillam, of Aldersgate Street, aged 113."

    July. "John Newell, Esq., at Michael(s)town, Ireland, aged 127,
    grandson to old Parr, who died at the age of 152."

    August. "James Carlewhite, of Seatown, in Scotland, aged 111.

    "John Lyon, of Bandon, in the county of Cork, Ireland, aged 116."

In September there are three aged 106; one 107; one 111; one 112; and one 114 registered. I
will take three from the year 1768, viz.:

    January. "Died lately in the Isle of Sky, in Scotland, Mr. Donald
    M^cGregor, a farmer there, in the 117th year of his age.

    "Last week, died at Burythorpe, near Malton in Yorkshire, Francis
    Confit, aged 150 years: he was maintained by the parish above sixty
    years, and retained his senses to the very last."

    April. "Near Ennis, Joan M^cDonough, aged 138 years."

Should sufficient interest attach to this subject, and any of the correspondents of "N. & Q."
wish it, I will be very happy to contribute my mite, and make out a list of all the deaths
above 120 years, or even 110, from the commencement of the Annual Register, but am afraid it
will be found rather long.

J. S. A.

Old Broad Street.

A few years ago there lived in New Ross, in the county of Wexford, two old men. The one, a
slater named Furlong, a person of very intemperate habits, died an inmate of the poorhouse
in his 101st year: he was able to take long walks up to a very short period before his death;
and I have heard that he, his son, and grandson, have been all together on a roof slating at
the same time. The other man was a nurseryman named Hayden, who died in his 108th year: his
memory was very good as to events that happened in his youth, and his limbs, though shrunk
up considerably, served him well. He was also in the frequent habit of taking long walks not
long before his death.

J. W. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

DERIVATION OF CANADA.

(Vol. vii., p. 380.)

The derivation given in the "cutting from an old newspaper," contributed by MR. BREEN, seems
little better than that of Dr. Douglas, who derives the name from a M. Cane, to whom he attributes
the honour of being the discoverer of the St. Lawrence.

In the first place, the "cutting" is not correct, in so far as Gaspar Cortereal never ascended
the river, having merely entered the gulf, to which the name of St. Lawrence was afterwards
given by Jacques Carter. Neither was the main object of the expedition the discovery of a passage
into the Indian Sea, but the discovery of gold; and it was the disappointment of the adventurers
in not finding the precious metal which is supposed to have caused them to exclaim "Aca nada!"
(Nothing here).

Hennepin, who likewise assigns to the Spaniards priority of discovery, asserts that they called
the land El Capo di Nada (Cape Nothing) for the same reason.

But the derivation given by Charlevoix, in his Nouvelle France, should set all doubt upon the
point at rest; Cannáda signifying, in the Iroquois language, a number of huts (un amas de cabanes),
or a village. The name came to be applied to the whole country in this manner:--The natives
being asked what they called the first settlement at which Cartier and his companions arrived,
answered, "Cannáda;" not meaning the particular appellation of the place, which was Stadacóna
(the modern Quebec), but simply a village. In like manner, they applied the same word to Hochelága
(Montreal) and to other places; whence the Europeans, hearing every locality designated by
the same term, Cannáda, very naturally applied it to the entire valley of the St. Lawrence.

ROBERT WRIGHT.

       *       *       *       *       *

SETANTIORUM PORTUS.

(Vol. vii., pp. 180. 246.)

Although the positions assigned by Camden to the ancient names of the various estuaries on
the coasts of Lancashire and Cumberland are very much at variance with those laid down by more
modern geographers; still, with regard to the particular locality assigned by him to the Setantiorum
Portus, he has made a suggestion which seems worthy the attention of your able correspondent C.

His position for Morecambe Bay is a small inlet to the south of the entrance of Solway Firth,
into which the rivers Waver and Wampool empty themselves, and on which stands "the abbey of
Ulme, or Holme Cultraine." He derives the name from the British, as signifying a "crooked sea,"
which doubtless is correct; we have Môr taweh, the main sea; Morudd, the Red Sea; and Môr camm
may be supposed to indicate a bay much indented with inlets. It is needless to say that the
present Morecambe Bay answers this description far more accurately than that in the Solway
Firth. Belisama Æstuarium he assigns to the mouth of the Ribble, and is obliged to allot Setantiorum
Portus to the remaining estuary, now called Morecambe Bay. However, he seems not quite satisfied
with this last arrangement, and suggests that it would be more appropriate if we might read,
as is found in some copies, Setantiorum [Greek: limnê], instead of [Greek: limên], thus assigning
the name of Setantii to the inhabitants of the lake district.

The old editions of Ptolemy, both Greek and Latin, are very incorrect, and, there is little
doubt, have suffered from alterations and interpolations at the hands of ignorant persons.
I have not access at present to any edition of his geography, either of Erasmus, Servetus,
or Bertius, so I know not whether any weight should be allowed to the following circumstance;
in the Britannia Romana, in Gibson's Camden, this is almost the only Portus to be found round
the coast of England. The terms there used are (with one more exception) invariably æstuarium,
or fluvii ostium. If this variation in the old reading be accepted, the appellation as given
by Montanus, Bertius, and others, to Winandermere, becomes more intelligible.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Stereoscopic Queries.--Can any of your readers inform me what are the proper angles under which
stereoscopic pictures should be taken?

Mr. Beard, I am informed, takes his stereoscopic portraits at about 6½°, or 1 in 9; that is
to say, his cameras are placed 1 inch apart for every 9 inches the sitter is removed from them.
The distance of the sitter with him is generally, I believe, 8 feet, which would give 10-2/3
inches for the extent of the separation between his cameras. More than this has the effect,
he says, of making the pictures appear to stand out unnaturally; that is to say, if the cameras
were to be placed 12 inches apart (which would be equal to 1 in 8), the pictures would seem
to be in greater relief than the objects.

I find that the pictures on a French stereoscopic slide I have by me have been taken at an
angle of 10°, or 1 in 6. This was evidently photographed at a considerable distance, the triumphal
arch in the Place de Carousel (of which it is a representation) being reduced to about 1¼ inch
in height. How comes it then that the angle is here increased to 10° from 6½°, or to 1 in 6
from 1 in 9.

Moreover, the only work I have been able to obtain on the mode of taking stereoscopic pictures,
lays it down that all portraits, or near objects, should be taken under an angle of 15°, or,
as it says, 1 in 5; that is, if the camera is 20 feet from the sitter, the distance between
its first and second position (supposing only one to be used) should not exceed 4 feet: otherwise,
adds the author, "the stereosity will appear unnaturally great."

When two cameras are employed, the instructions proceed to state that the distance between
them would be about 1/10th of the distance from the part of the object focussed. The example
given is a group of portraits, and the angle, 1 in 10, is afterwards spoken of as being equivalent
to an arc of 10°.

Farther on, we are told that "the angle should be lessened as the distance between the nearest
and farthest objects increase. Example: if the farthest object be twice as far from the camera
as the near object, the angle should be 5° to a central point between these two.

Now, I find by calculation that the measurements and the angle here mentioned by no means {506}
agree. For instance, an angle of 15° is spoken of as being equivalent to the measurement 1
in 5. An angle of 10° is said, or implied, to be the same as 1 in 10. This is far from being
the fact. According to my calculations, the following are the real equivalents:--

  An angle of 15° is equal to 1 in 4.
     "       12°      "      1 in 5.
     "       10°      "      1 in 6.
     "       6½°      "      1 in 9.
     "       6°       "      1 in 10.
     "       5°       "      1 in 12.
     "       4°       "      1 in 15.

Will any of your readers oblige me by solving the above anomalies, and by giving the proper
angles or measurement under which objects should be taken when near, moderately distant, or
far removed from the camera; stating, at the same time, at how many feet from the camera an
object is to be considered as near, or distant, or between the two? It would be a great assistance
to beginners in the stereoscopic art, if some experienced gentleman would state the best distances
and angles for taking busts, portraits, groups, buildings, and landscapes.

It is said that stereoscopic pictures at great distances, such as views, should be taken "with
a small aperture." But as the exact dimensions are not mentioned, it would be equally serviceable
if, to the other details, were added some account of the dimensions of the apertures required
for the several angles.

