ABRAHAM LINCOLN

A HISTORY

BY JOHN G. NICOLAY AND JOHN HAY

VOLUME TWO

New York The Century Co. 1890

ILLUSTRATIONS

VOL. II

ABRAHAM LINCOLN (Frontispiece) From an ambrotype taken for Marcus L. Ward (afterwards Governor
of New Jersey) in Springfield, Ill., May 20, 1860, two days after Mr. Lincoln's nomination.

GENERAL JOHN W. GEARY From a photograph taken, in 1866, by Draper and Husted.

MILLARD FILLMORE From a daguerreotype.

CHARLES SUMNER From a daguerreotype.

ROGER B. TANEY From a daguerreotype.

SAMUEL NELSON From a photograph.

ROBERT J. WALKER From a daguerreotype.

FREDERICK P. STANTON From a photograph by Brady.

JOHN CALHOUN From a painting by D.C. Fabronius, after a photograph by Brady.

ANSON BURLINGAME From a photograph by William Shaw.

STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS From a daguerreotype.

DAVID COLBRETH BRODERICK From a photograph by Brady.

JOHN BROWN From a photograph by J.W. Black & Co.

HOUSE IN WHICH JOHN BROWN WAS BORN, TORRINGTON, CONNECTICUT From a photograph lent by Frank
B. Sanborn.

CALEB CUSHING From a photograph by Brady.

W.L. YANCEY From a photograph by Cook.

GENERAL JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE From a daguerreotype taken about 1850, lent by Anson Maltby.

FACSIMILE OF LINCOLN'S LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE

JOHN BELL From a photograph by Brady.

GENERAL HENRY A. WISE From a photograph by Brady.

THE WIGWAM AT CHICAGO IN WHICH LINCOLN WAS NOMINATED

GENERAL ROBERT ANDERSON From a photograph by Brady.

JAMES BUCHANAN From a photograph by Brady.

LEWIS CASS From a photograph by Brady.

GENERAL ROBERT TOOMBS From a photograph.

JUSTIN S. MORRILL From a photograph by Brady.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

VOL. II

CHAPTER I. JEFFERSON DAVIS ON REBELLION

Civil War in Kansas. Guerrillas dispersed by Colonel Sumner. General P.F. Smith supersedes
Sumner. Governor Shannon Removed. Missouri River Blockaded. Jefferson Davis's Instructions
on Rebellion. Acting-Governor Woodson Proclaims the Territory in Insurrection. Report of General
Smith. John W. Geary Appointed Governor. Inaugural Address. His Military Proclamations and
Measures. Colonel Cooke's "Cannon" Argument. Hickory Point Skirmish. Imprisonment of Free State
Men. End of Guerrilla War. Removal and Flight of Governor Geary.

CHAPTER II. THE CONVENTIONS OF 1856

Formation of the Republican Party in Illinois. The Decatur Convention. Action of the "Know-Nothing"
Party. Nomination of Fillmore and Donelson. Democrats of Illinois Nominate William A. Richardson
for Governor. The Davis-Bissell Challenge. The Bloomington Convention. Bissell Nominated for
Governor. Lincoln's Speech at Bloomington. The Pittsburgh Convention. The Philadelphia Convention.
Nomination of Frémont and Dayton. The Philadelphia Platform. Lincoln Proposed for Vice-President.
The Cincinnati Convention. The Cincinnati Platform. Nomination of Buchanan and Breckinridge.
Buchanan Elected President. Bissell Elected Governor. Lincoln's Campaign Speeches.

CHAPTER III. CONGRESSIONAL RUFFIANISM

Sumner's Senate Speech on Kansas. Brooks's Assault on Sumner. Action of the Senate. Action
of the House. Resignation and Reelection of Brooks. Wilson Challenged. Brooks Challenges Burlingame.
Sumner's Malady. Reelection of Sumner. Death of Butler and Brooks. Sumner's Re-appearance in
the Senate.

CHAPTER IV. THE DRED SCOTT DECISION

The Dred Scott Case. Its Origin. The Law of Slavery. Preliminary Decisions of the Case. Appeal
to the U.S. Supreme Court. The Case Twice Argued. Opinion of Justice Nelson. Political Conditions.
Mr. Buchanan's Announcement. The Dred Scott Decision. Opinions by all the Judges. Opinion of
the Court. Dred Scott Declared Not a Citizen. Slavery Prohibition Declared Unconstitutional.
Language of Chief-Justice Taney. Dissenting Opinions.

CHAPTER V. DOUGLAS AND LINCOLN ON DRED SCOTT

Political Effects of the Dred Scott Decision. Douglas's Springfield Speech on the Dred Scott
Decision. He Indorses Chief-Justice Taney's Opinion. Freeport Doctrine Foreshadowed. Lincoln's
Speech in Reply to Douglas. Uses of Judicial Decisions. Prospects of the Colored Race in the
United States, Principles of the Declaration of Independence.

CHAPTER VI. THE LECOMPTON CONSTITUTION

Constitutional Convention Called by the Legislature. Resignation and Flight of Governor Geary.
Walker Appointed Governor. Promises of Buchanan and his Cabinet. Walker's Kansas Policy. Action
of the Free-State Mass Meeting. Pro-slavery Convention at Lecompton. Election of Delegates.
Governor Walker favors Submission of the Constitution to Popular Vote. Protests from Southern
States. The Walker-Buchanan Correspondence. Lecompton Constitutional Convention. The October
Election. The Oxford and McGee Frauds. The Lecompton Constitution. Extra Session of the Legislature.
Secretary Stanton's Removal. Governor Walker's Resignation.

CHAPTER VII. THE REVOLT OF DOUGLAS

Douglas's Quarrel with Buchanan. Buchanan's Silliman Letter. His Annual Message. Douglas's
Speech on Lecompton. Lecompton Constitution Declared Adopted. Buchanan's Special Message. The
Pro-slavery Reaction. Buchanan's Views on Cuba. The Lecompton Constitution in Congress. The
Crittenden-Montgomery Substitute. The English Bill. The Opposition of Douglas. The Administration
Organ.

CHAPTER VIII. THE LINCOLN-DOUGLAS DEBATES

Growing Republican Chances. Illinois Politics in 1858. Candidates for Senator. The Senatorial
Campaign. Lincoln's "House Divided Against Itself" Speech. Republican Sympathy for Douglas.
Horace Greeley's Attitude. Lincoln on Greeley and Seward. Correspondence Between Lincoln and
Crittenden. The Lincoln-Douglas Debates.

CHAPTER IX. THE FREEPORT DOCTRINE

The Debate at Ottawa. The Debate at Freeport. The Freeport Doctrine. Benjamin's Speech on Douglas.
The November Election, Douglas Reëlected Senator. Cause of Lincoln's Defeat. Lincoln's Letters
on the Result. Douglas Removed from the Chairmanship of the Senate Committee on Territories.

CHAPTER X. LINCOLN'S OHIO SPEECHES

Douglas's Tour Through the South. His Advanced Views on Slavery. Senate Discussion Between
Brown and Douglas. Douglas's Letter to Dorr. Lincoln's Growing Prominence. Lincoln's Correspondence
with Schuyler Colfax. Letter to Canisius. Letter to Pierce and Others. Douglas's "Harper's
Magazine" Article. Lincoln's Ohio Speeches. The Douglas-Black Controversy. Publication of the
Lincoln-Douglas Debates.

CHAPTER XI. HARPER'S FERRY

John Brown. His Part in the Kansas Civil War. His Plan of Slave Liberation. Pikes and Recruits.
The Peterboro Council. The Chatham Meeting. Change of Plan. Harper's Ferry. Brown's Campaign.
Colonel Lee, and the U.S. Marines. Capture of Brown. His Trial and Execution. The Senate Investigation.
Public Opinion. Lincoln on John Brown. Speakership Contest. Election of William Pennington.

CHAPTER XII. LINCOLN'S COOPER INSTITUTE SPEECH

Lincoln Invited to Lecture in New York. The Meeting in Cooper Institute. Public Interest in
the Speaker. Lincoln's Speech. His Definition of "The Question." Historical Analysis. His Admonition
to the South. The Right and Wrong of Slavery. The Duty of the Free States. Criticisms of the
Address. Speeches in New England.

CHAPTER XIII. THE CHARLESTON CONVENTION

The Democratic Party. Its National Convention at Charleston. Sentiments of the Delegates. Differences
North, and South. Douglas as a Candidate. The Jefferson Davis Senate Resolutions. Caleb Cushing
made Chairman. The Platform Committee. Majority and Minority Reports. Speech of William L.
Yancey. Speech of Senator Pugh. Speech of Senator Bigler. Second Majority and Minority Reports.
Minority Report Adopted. Cotton State Delegates Secede. Yancey's Prophecy.

CHAPTER XIV. THE BALTIMORE NOMINATIONS

Nomination of Douglas Impossible. Charleston Convention adjourned to Baltimore. Seceders' Convention
in St. Andrew's Hall. Adjourns to meet at Richmond. Address of Southern Senators. The Davis-Douglas
Debate. Charleston Convention Reassembles at Baltimore. A Second Disruption. Nomination of
Douglas. Nomination of Breckinridge. The Constitutional Union Convention. Nomination of John Bell.

CHAPTER XV. THE CHICAGO CONVENTION

The Republican Party. The Chicago Convention. Lincoln's Fairness to Rivals. Chances of the
Campaign. The Pivotal States. The Wigwam. Organization of the Convention. Chicago Platform.
Contrast between the Charleston and Chicago Conventions. The Balloting. Lincoln Nominated for
President. Hamlin Nominated for Vice-President.

CHAPTER XVI. LINCOLN ELECTED

The Presidential Campaign. Parties, Candidates, and Platforms. Pledges to the Union. The Democratic
Schism. Douglas's Campaign Tour. The "Illinois Rail-splitter." The "Wide Awakes." Lincoln during
the Canvass. Letters about "Know-Nothings." Fusion. The Vote of Maine. The October States.
The Election. The Electoral College. The Presidential Count. Lincoln Declared Elected.

CHAPTER XVII. BEGINNINGS OF REBELLION

Early Disunion Sentiment. Nullification. The Agitation of 1850. The Conspiracy of 1856. The
"Scarlet Letter." "The 1860 Association." Governor Gist's Letter to Southern Governors. Replies
to Governor Gist. Conspiracy at Washington.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE CABINET CABAL

Mr. Buchanan's Cabinet. Extracts from Floyd's Diary. Cabinet Conferences on Disunion. The Drayton-Gist
Correspondence. Mr. Trescott's Letters. Floyd's Sale of Arms. Secretary Thompson's Mission.
Jefferson Davis and the Governor of Mississippi. Jefferson Davis and President Buchanan's Message.

CHAPTER XIX. FROM THE BALLOT TO THE BULLET

Governor Gist's Proclamation. Caucus of South Carolinians. Governor Gist's Message. The Disunion
Cult. Presidential Electors Chosen. Effect of Lincoln's Election. Disunion Sentiment. Military
Appropriation. Convention Bill Passed. Charleston Mass-Meeting.

CHAPTER XX. MAJOR ANDERSON

Buchanan and Secession. General Scott and Nullification. "Views" Addressed to the President.
The President's Criticism. Scott's Rejoinder. The Charleston Forts. Foster's Requisition. Colonel
Gardner asks for Reënforcements. Fitz-John Porter's Inspection Report. Gardner Relieved from
Command. Anderson sent to Charleston.

CHAPTER XXI. THE CHARLESTON FORTS

Anderson's Arrival at Charleston. His Tour of Inspection. Report to the War Department. The
Forts and the Harbor. Anderson asks reënforcements. Discouraging Reply from Washington. Insurrectionary
Sentiment in Charleston. Floyd's Instructions to Anderson. Colonel Huger. Anderson's Visit
to the Mayor of Charleston.

CHAPTER XXII. THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

Mr. Buchanan's Opportunity. Cabinet Opinions on Disunion. Advice to the President in Preparing
his Message. The Message. Arguments on Slavery. Recommends a National Convention. Arguments
on Disunion. The Powers and Duties of Congress. Coercion Denied. Criticisms of the Message.

CHAPTER XXIII. THE CHARLESTON CONSPIRATORS

Debate on the Message. Adverse Criticisms. Buchanan's Doctrines and Policy. Movements of Secession.
South Carolina Legislation. Magrath's Comments. Non-Coercion and Coercion. Fort Moultrie. Intrigue
for its Capture. Governor Gist's Letter. South Carolina's Complaints and Demands.

CHAPTER XXIV. MR. BUCHANAN'S TRUCE

Return of the Brooklyn. The President's Interview with the South Carolina Delegation. Mr. Buchanan's
Truce. Major Buell's Visit to Anderson. The Buell Memorandum. Character of Instructions.

CHAPTER XXV. THE RETIREMENT OF CASS

Failure of the Concession Policy. Movements towards Secession. Resignation of Secretary Cobb.
Cobb's Secession Address. Resignation of Secretary Cass. The Buchanan-Floyd Incident. The Conspirators
advise Buchanan. Cass demands Reënforcements. The Cass-Buchanan Correspondence.

CHAPTER XXVI. THE SENATE COMMITTEE OF THIRTEEN

Secession Debates in the Senate. Speeches of Clingman, Brown, Iverson, Wigfall, Mason, Jefferson
Davis, Hale, Crittenden, Pugh, Douglas. Powell's Motion for a Select Committee. Speeches of
King, Collamer, Foster, Green, Wade. Senate Committee of Thirteen Appointed.

CHAPTER XXVII. THE HOUSE COMMITTEE OF THIRTY-THREE

The President's Message in the House. Compromise Efforts. Motion to Appoint a Committee of
Thirty-Three. Committee Appointed. Corwin made Chairman. Sickles's Speech. Vallandigham's Speech.
McClernand's Speech. Compromise Propositions. Jenkins's Plan. Noell's Plan. Andrew Johnson's
Plan. Vallandigham's Plan.

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE CONSPIRACY PROCLAIMED

Hopes of Compromise. Party Pledges to the Union. President Buchanan's Advice. Nullification
and Secession. Estrangement between North and South. Cabinet Treachery and Intrigue. The Congressional
Debates. Compromise Committees. The Conspirators' Strategy. Elements of Disturbance. Hopes
of Peaceable Secession. Dunn's Resolution. Mr. Buchanan's Proclamation. Secession Proclaimed.

CHAPTER XXIX. THE FORTY MUSKETS

Captain Foster. His Arrival in Charleston. Condition of Fort Moultrie. Temporary Defenses.
Foster Requests Forty Muskets. The Question of Arming Workmen. Foster Receives Forty Muskets.
Their Return Demanded. The Alleged Charleston Excitement. Floyd Orders the Muskets Returned.
Foster's Compliance and Comment.

CHAPTER I

JEFFERSON DAVIS ON REBELLION

  [Sidenote] Sumner to Howard, May 16, 1856. Ibid., p. 37.

  [Sidenote] Shannon to Sumner, May 21, 1856. Senate Ex. Doc., 3d Sess.
  34th Cong. Vol. III., p. 38.

  [Sidenote] 1856.

While the town of Lawrence was undergoing burning and pillage, Governor Shannon wrote to Colonel
Sumner to say that as the marshal and sheriff had finished making their arrests, and he presumed
had by that time dismissed the posse, he required a company of United States troops to be stationed
at Lawrence to secure "the safety of the citizens in both, person and property," asking also
a like company for Lecompton and Topeka. The next day the citizens of Lawrence had the opportunity
to smother their indignation when they saw the embers of the Free-State Hotel and the scattered
fragments of their printing-presses patrolled and "protected" by the Federal dragoons whose
presence they had vainly implored a few days before. It was time the Governor should move.
The guerrilla bands with their booty spread over the country, and the free-State men rose in
a spirit of fierce retaliation. Assassinations, house-burnings, expulsions, and skirmishes
broke out in all quarters. The sudden shower of lawlessness fell on the just and the unjust;
and, forced at last to deal out equal protection, the Governor (June 4) issued his proclamation
directing military organizations to disperse, "without regard to party names, or distinctions,"[1]
and empowering Colonel Sumner to enforce the order.

  [Sidenote] Sumner to Cooper, June 23, 1856. Ibid., p. 50.

  [Sidenote] Sumner to Cooper, August 11, 1856. Ibid., p. 59.

That careful and discreet officer, who had from the first counseled this policy, at once proceeded
to execute the command with his characteristic energy. He disarmed and dispersed the free-State
guerrillas,--John Brown's among the earliest,--liberated prisoners, drove the Missourians,
including delegate Whitfield and General Coffee of the skeleton militia, back across their
State line, and stationed five companies along the border to prevent their return. He was so
fortunate as to accomplish all this without bloodshed. "I do not think," he wrote, June 23,
"there is an armed body of either party now in the Territory, with the exception perhaps of
a few freebooters." The colonel found very soon that he was only too efficient and faithful.
"My measures have necessarily borne hard against both parties," wrote Sumner to the War Department,
"for both have in many instances been more or less wrong. The Missourians were perfectly satisfied
so long as the troops were employed exclusively against the free-State party; but when they
found that I would be strictly impartial, that lawless mobs could no longer come from Missouri,
and that their interference with the affairs of Kansas was brought to an end, then they immediately
raised a hue and cry that they were oppressed by the United States troops." The complaint had
its usual prompt effect at Washington. By orders dated June 27 the colonel was superseded in
his command, and Brigadier-General P.F. Smith was sent to Leavenworth. Known to be pro-slavery
in his opinions, great advantage was doubtless expected by the conspiracy from this change.
But General Smith was an invalid, and incapable of active service, and so far as the official
records show, the army officers and troops in Kansas continued to maintain a just impartiality.

  [Sidenote] 1856.

The removal of Governor Shannon a few weeks after Colonel Sumner once more made Secretary Woodson,
always a willing instrument of the conspiracy, acting Governor. It was under this individual's
promptings and proclamation, Shannon being absent from the Territory, that Colonel Sumner,
before the arrival of the orders superseding him, forcibly dispersed the free-State Legislature
on the 4th of July, as narrated. For this act the Secretary of War, Jefferson Davis, was not
slow to send the colonel an implied censure, perhaps to justify his removal from command; but
not a word of reproof went from President or Secretary of State to the acting Governor.

It has already been stated that for a considerable length of time after the organization of
Kansas Territory the Missouri River was its principal highway of approach from the States.
To anti-slavery men who were unwilling to conceal their sentiments, this had from the very
first been a route of difficulty and danger. Now that political strife culminated in civil
war, the Missourians established a complete practical blockade of the river against the Northern
men and Northern goods. Recently, however, the Northern emigration to Kansas had gradually
found a new route through Iowa and Nebraska.

It was about this time that great consternation was created in pro-slavery circles by the report
that Lane had arrived at the Iowa border with a "Northern army," exaggerated into fabulous
numbers, intent upon fighting his way to Kansas. Parties headed by Lane and others and aggregating
some hundreds had in fact so arrived, and were more or less provided with arms, though they
had no open military organization. While spies and patrols were on the lookout for marching
companies and regiments, they, concealing their arms, quietly slipped down in detached parties
to Lawrence. Thus reënforced and inspirited, the free-State men took the aggressive, and by
several bold movements broke up a number of pro-slavery camps and gatherings. Greatly exaggerated
reports of these affairs were promptly sent to the neighboring Missouri counties, and the Border
Ruffians rose for a third invasion of Kansas.

Governor Shannon, not yet notified of his removal, reported to General Smith that Lecompton
was threatened with an attack. General Smith, becoming alarmed, called together all his available
force for the protection of the territorial capital, and reported the exigency to the War Department.
All the hesitation which had hitherto characterized the instructions of Jefferson Davis, the
Secretary of War, in the use of troops otherwise than as an officer's posse, instantly vanished.
The whole Kansas militia was placed under the orders of General Smith, and requisitions were
issued for two regiments from Illinois and two from Kentucky. "The position of the insurgents,"
wrote the Secretary, "as shown by your letter and its inclosures, is that of open rebellion
against the laws and constitutional authorities, with such manifestation of a purpose to spread
devastation over the land as no longer justifies further hesitation or indulgence. To you,
as to every soldier, whose habitual feeling is to protect the citizens of his own country,
and only to use his arms against a public enemy, it cannot be otherwise than deeply painful
to be brought into conflict with any portion of his fellow-countrymen. But patriotism and humanity
alike require that rebellion should be promptly crushed, and the perpetration of the crimes
which now disturb the peace and security of the good people of the Territory of Kansas should
be effectually checked. You will therefore energetically employ all the means within your reach
to restore the supremacy of the law, always endeavoring to carry out your present purpose to
prevent the unnecessary effusion of blood."[2]

The Secretary had probably cast his eye upon the Platte County battle-call in the "Weston Argus
Extra," which formed one of the general's inclosures: "So sudden and unexpected has been the
attack of the abolitionists that the law-and-order party was unprepared to effectually resist
them. To-day the bogus free-State government, we understand, is to assemble at Topeka. The
issue is distinctly made up; either the free-State or pro-slavery party is to have Kansas....
Citizens of Platte County! the war is upon you, and at your very doors.

It was perhaps well that the pro-slavery zeal of General Smith was less ardent than that of
Secretary Jefferson Davis, or the American civil war might have begun in Lawrence instead of
Charleston. Upon fuller information and more mature reflection, the General found that he had
no need of either the four regiments from Illinois and Kentucky, or Border-Ruffian mobs led
by skeleton militia generals, neither of which he had asked for. Both the militia generals
and the Missourians were too eager even to wait for an official call. General Richardson ordered
out his whole division on the strength of the "Argus Extra" and neighborhood reports,[4] and
the entire border was already in motion when acting Governor Woodson issued his proclamation
declaring the Territory "to be in a state of open insurrection and rebellion." General Smith
found it necessary to direct his first orders against the Border-Ruffian invaders themselves.
"It has been rumored for several days," he wrote to his second in command, "that large numbers
of persons from the State of Missouri have entered Kansas, at various points, armed, with the
intention of attacking the opposite party and driving them from the Territory, the latter being
also represented to be in considerable force.

  [Sidenote] Cooke to Woodson, Sept. 1, 1856. Ibid., pp. 91, 92.

Lieutenant-Colonel P. St. George Cooke, upon whom this active field work devolved, because
of the General's ill health, concentrated his little command between Lawrence and Lecompton,
where he could to some extent exert a salutary check upon the main bodies of both parties,
and where he soon had occasion to send a remonstrance to the acting Governor that his "militia"
was ransacking and burning houses.[6] To the acting Governor's mind, such a remonstrance was
not a proper way to suppress rebellion. He, therefore, sent Colonel Cooke a requisition to
invest the town of Topeka, disarm the insurrectionists, hold them as prisoners, level their
fortifications, and intercept aggressive invaders on "Lane's trail"; all of which demands the
officer prudently and politely declined, replying that he was there to assist in serving judicial
process, and not to make war on the town of Topeka.

If, as had been alleged, General Smith was at first inclined to regard the pro-slavery side
with favor, its arrogance and excesses soon removed his prejudices, and he wrote an unsparing
report of the situation to the War Department. "In explanation of the position of affairs,
lately and now, I may remark that there are more than two opposing parties in the Territory.
The citizens of the Territory who formed the majority in the organization of the territorial
government, and in the elections for its Legislature and inferior officers, form one party.
The persons who organized a State government, and attempted to put it in operation against
the authority of that established by Congress, form another. A party, at the head of which
is a former Senator from Missouri, and which is composed in a great part of citizens from that
State, who have come into this Territory armed, under the excitement produced by reports exaggerated
in all cases, and in many absolutely false, form the third. There is a fourth, composed of
idle men congregated from various parts, who assume to arrest, punish, exile, and even kill
all those whom they assume to be bad citizens; that is, those who will not join them or contribute
to their maintenance. Every one of these has in his own peculiar way (except some few of the
first party) thrown aside all regard to law, and even honesty, and the Territory under their
sway is ravaged from one end to the other.... Until the day before yesterday I was deficient
in force to operate against all these at once; and the acting Governor of the Territory did
not seem to me to take a right view of affairs. If Mr. Atchison and his party had had the direction
of affairs, they could not have ordered them more to suit his purpose."[7]

All such truth and exposure of the conspiracy, however, was unpalatable at Washington; and
Secretary Jefferson Davis, while approving the conduct of Colonel Cooke and expressing confidence
in General Smith, nevertheless curtly indorsed upon his report: "The only distinction of parties
which in a military point of view it is necessary to note is that which distinguishes those
who respect and maintain the laws and organized government from those who combine for revolutionary
resistance to the constitutional authorities and laws of the land. The armed combinations of
the latter class come within the denunciation of the President's proclamation and are proper
subjects upon which to employ the military force."[8]

  [Sidenote] "Washington Union," August 1, 1856.

Such was the state of affairs when the third Governor of Kansas, newly appointed by President
Pierce, arrived in the Territory. The Kansas pro-slavery cabal had upon the dismissal of Shannon
fondly hoped that one of their own clique, either Secretary Woodson or Surveyor-General John
Calhoun, would be made executive, and had set on foot active efforts in that direction. In
principle and purpose they enjoyed the abundant sympathy of the Pierce Administration; but
as the presidential election of 1856 was at hand, the success of the Democratic party could
not at the moment be endangered by so open and defiant an act of partisanship. It was still
essential to placate the wounded anti-slavery sensibilities of the Northern States, and to
this end John W. Geary, of Pennsylvania, was nominated by the President and unanimously confirmed
by the Senate. He was a man of character and decision, had gone to the Mexican war as a volunteer
captain, and had been made a colonel and intrusted with an important command for merit. Afterwards
he had served as postmaster, as alcalde, and as mayor of the city of San Francisco in the turbulent
gold excitements of 1848-9, and was made a funding commissioner by the California Legislature.
Both by nature and experience, therefore, he seemed well fitted to subdue the civil commotions
of Kansas.

  [Sidenote] Gihon, p. 131.

But the pro-slavery leaders of the Territory were very far from relishing or desiring qualifications
of this character. In one of their appeals calling upon the Missourians for "assistance in
men, provisions, and munitions, that we may drive out the 'Army of the North,'" they had given
the President and the public a piece of their mind about this appointment. "We have asked the
appointment of a successor," said they, "who was acquainted with our condition," with "the
capacity to appreciate and the boldness and integrity requisite faithfully to discharge his
duty regardless of the possible effect it might have upon the election of some petty politician
in a distant State. We cannot hazard a second edition of imbecility or corruption!"

Animated by such a spirit, they now bent all their energies upon concentrating a sufficient
force in Kansas to crush the free-State men before the new Governor could interfere. Acting
Governor Woodson had by proclamation declared the Territory in a state of "open insurrection
and rebellion,"[9] and the officers of the skeleton militia were hurriedly enrolling the Missourians,
giving them arms, and planting them in convenient camps for a final and decisive campaign.

  [Sidenote] Gihon, p. 104.

  [Sidenote] Gihon, pp. 104-6.

It was on September 9, 1856, that Governor Geary and his party landed at Leavenworth. Even
on his approach he had already been compelled to note and verify the evidences of civil war.
He had met Governor Shannon fleeing from the Territory, who drew for him a direful picture
of the official inheritance to which he had come. While this interview took place, during the
landing of the boat at Glasgow, a company of sixty Missouri Border Ruffians was embarking,
with wagons, arms, and cannon, and with the open declaration that they were bound for Kansas
to hunt and kill "abolitionists." Similar belligerent preparations were in progress at all
the river towns they touched. At Kansas City the vigilance committee of the blockade boarded
and searched the boat for concealed "abolitionists." Finally arrived at Leavenworth, the Governor
saw a repetition of the same scenes--parades and military control in the streets, fugitives
within the inclosure of the fort, and minor evidences of lawlessness and terror. II., p. 88.

Governor Geary went at once to the fort, where he spent the day in consultation with General
Smith. That same evening he wrote to W.L. Marcy, Secretary of State, a report of the day's
impressions which was anything but reassuring--Leavenworth in the hands of armed men committing
outrages under the shadow of authority; theft and murder in the streets and on the highways;
farms plundered and deserted; agitation, excitement, and utter insecurity everywhere, and the
number of troops insufficient to compel peace and order. All this was not the worst, however.
Deep in the background stood the sinister apparition of the Atchison cabal. "I find," wrote
he, "that I have not simply to contend against bands of armed ruffians and brigands whose sole
aim and end is assassination and robbery--infatuated adherents and advocates of conflicting
political sentiments and local institutions--and evil-disposed persons actuated by a desire
to obtain elevated positions; but worst of all, against the influence of men who have been
placed in authority and have employed all the destructive agents around them to promote their
own personal interests at the sacrifice of every just, honorable, and lawful consideration....
Such is the condition of Kansas faintly pictured.... In making the foregoing statements I have
endeavored to give the truth and nothing but the truth. I deem it important that you should
be apprised of the actual state of the case; and whatever may be the effect of such revelations,
they will be given from time to time without extenuation."

  [Sidenote] Geary to Marcy, Sept. 12, 1856. Ibid., p. 95.

Discouraging as he found his new task of administration, Governor Geary grappled with it in
a spirit of justice and decision. The day following his interview with General Smith found
him at Lecompton, the capital of the Territory, where the other territorial officials, Woodson,
Calhoun, Donaldson, Sheriff Jones, Lecompte, Cato, and others, constituted the ever-vigilant
working force of the Atchison cabal, precisely as had been so truthfully represented to him
by General Smith, and as he had so graphically described in his letter to Marcy of the day
before. Paying little heed to their profusely offered advice, he adhered to his determination
to judge for himself, and at once issued an inaugural address, declaring that in his official
action he would do justice at all hazards, that he desired to know no party and no section,
and imploring the people to bury their past strifes, and devote themselves to peace, industry,
and the material development of the Territory.[10] As an evidence of his earnestness he simultaneously
issued two proclamations, one disbanding the volunteer or Missouri militia lately called into
service by acting Governor Woodson, and the other commanding the immediate enrollment of the
true citizen militia of Kansas Territory, this step being taken by the advice of General Smith.

He soon found that he could not govern Kansas with paper proclamations alone. His sudden arrival
at this particular juncture was evidently an unexpected contretemps. While he was preaching
and printing his sage admonitions about peace and prosperity at Lecompton, and laboring to
change the implements of civil war into plowshares and pruning-hooks, the Missouri raid against
Lawrence, officially called into the field by Woodson's proclamation, was about to deal out
destruction to that town. A thousand Border Ruffians (at least two eye-witnesses say 2500),
led by their recognized Missouri chiefs, were at that moment camped within striking distance
of the hated "New Boston." Their published address, which declared that "these traitors, assassins,
and robbers must now be punished, must now be taught a lesson they will remember," that "Lane's
army and its allies must be expelled from the Territory," left no doubt of their errand.

This news reached Governor Geary about midnight of his second day in Lecompton. One of the
brigadiers of the skeleton militia was apparently in command, and not yet having caught the
cue of the Governor's intentions, reported the force for orders, "in the field, ready for duty,
and impatient to act."[11] At about the same hour the Governor received a message from the
agent he had sent to Lawrence to distribute copies of his inaugural, that the people of that
town were arming and preparing to receive and repel this contemplated attack of the Missourians.
He was dumfounded at the information; his promises and policy, upon which, the ink was not
yet dry, were already in jeopardy. Instead of bringing peace his advent was about to open war.

In this contingency the Governor took his measures with true military promptness. He immediately
dispatched to the Missouri camp Secretary Woodson with copies of his inaugural, and the adjutant-general
of the Territory with orders to disband and muster out of service the Missouri volunteers,[12]
while he himself, at the head of three hundred dragoons and a light battery, moved rapidly
to Lawrence, a distance of twelve miles. Entering that town at sunrise, he found a few hundred
men hastily organized for defense in the improvised intrenchments and barricades about the
place, ready enough to sell their lives, but vastly more willing to intrust their protection
to the Governor's authority and the Federal troops.[13] They listened to his speech and readily
promised to obey his requirements.

Since the Missourians had officially reported themselves to him as subject to his orders, the
Governor supposed that his injunctions, conveyed to them in writing and print, and borne by
the secretary and the adjutant-general of the Territory, would suffice to send them back at
once to their own borders, and he returned to Lecompton to take up his thorny duties of administration.
Though forewarned by ex-Governor Shannon and by General Smith, Governor Geary did not yet realize
the temper and purpose of either the cabal conspirators or the Border-Ruffian rank and file.
He had just dispatched a military force in another direction to intercept and disarm a raid
about to be made by a detachment of Lane's men, when news came to him that the Missourians
were still moving upon Lawrence, in increased force, that his officers had not yet delivered
his orders, and that skirmishing had begun between the outposts.

  [Sidenote] D.W. Wilder, "Annals of Kansas," p. 108. Gihon, p. 152.

Menaced thus with dishonor on one side and contempt on the other, he gathered all his available
Federal troops, and hurrying forward posted them between Lawrence and the invaders. Then he
went to the Missouri camp, where the true condition of affairs began to dawn upon him. All
the Border-Ruffian chiefs were there, headed by Atchison in person, who was evidently the controlling
spirit, though a member of the Legislature of the State of Missouri, named Reid, exercised
nominal command. He found his orders unheeded and on every hand mutterings of impatience and
threats of defiance. These invading aliens had not the least disposition to receive commands
as Kansas militia; they invoked that name only as a cloak to shield them from the legal penalties
due their real character as organized banditti.

The Governor called the chiefs together and made them an earnest harangue. He explained to
them his conciliatory policy, read his instructions from Washington, affirmed his determination
to keep peace, and appealed personally to Atchison to aid him in enforcing law and preserving
order. That wily chief, seeing that refusal would put him in the attitude of a law-breaker,
feigned a ready compliance, and he and Reid, his factotum commander, made eloquent speeches
"calculated to produce submission to the legal demands made upon them."[14] Some of the lesser
captains, however, were mutinous, and treated the Governor to choice bits of Border-Ruffian
rhetoric. Law and violence vibrated in uncertain balance, when Colonel Cooke, commanding the
Federal troops, took the floor and cut the knot of discussion in a summary way. "I felt called
upon to say some words myself," he writes naïvely, "appealing to these militia officers as
an old resident of Kansas and friend to the Missourians to submit to the patriotic demand that
they should retire, assuring them of my perfect confidence in the inflexible justice of the
Governor, and that it would become my painful duty to sustain him at the cannon's mouth."[15]
This argument was decisive. The border chiefs felt willing enough to lead their awkward squads
against the slight barricades of Lawrence, but quailed at the unlooked-for prospect of encountering
the carbines and sabers of half a regiment of regular dragoons and the grape-shot of a well-drilled
light battery. They accepted the inevitable; and swallowing their rage but still nursing their
revenge, they consented perforce to retire and be "honorably" mustered out. But for this narrow
contingency Lawrence would have been sacked a second time by the direct agency of the territorial
cabal.

