The Céppo, or Yule-log, is lighted at two o'clock the day previous to Christmas, on the kitchen
hearth in provinces where it is sufficiently cold to have a hearth, and fires are lighted in
other rooms, for here as elsewhere fire and light are necessary adjuncts of Christmas. During
the twenty-four hours preceding Christmas Eve a rigid fast is observed, and there is an absence
of Christmas cheer in the atmosphere, for the season is strictly a religious one rather than
of a social nature like that of Northern countries. At early twilight candles are lighted around
the presepio, and the little folks recite before it some poem suitable for the occasion. Then
follows the banquet, made as elaborate as possible. The menu varies in different parts of the
country, but in every part fish forms an important item of food. In many places a capon stuffed
with chestnuts is considered indispensable, and the family purse is often stretched to its
utmost to provide this luxury, yet rich and poor deem this one article of food absolutely necessary
on this occasion. Macaroni is of course the ever-present dish on all occasions throughout the
country, and various sweetmeats are abundantly provided.

Then comes the drawing of presents from the Urn of Fate, a custom common to many countries.
As the parcels are interspersed with blanks, the drawing from the urn creates much excitement
and no little disappointment among the children, who do not always understand that there will
be a gift for each one notwithstanding the blanks.

There is no evergreen used in either church or home trimmings, but flowers, natural or artificial,
are used instead. Soon after nine o'clock the people, young and old, leave their homes for
some church in which the Christmas Eve services begin by ten o'clock.

Bright holly-berries, sweet violets, stately chrysanthemums, and pretty olive-trees bedecked
with oranges,--such as are bought by those accustomed to having a Christmas tree,--are displayed
in shops and along the streets, nearly all of which are hung with bright lanterns. The people
carry flaming torches to add to the general brightness of the evening, and in some cities fireworks
are set off. From their sun-worshiping Aryan ancestors Italy derives the custom of burning
the céppo, the love of light and fire, and many other customs. A few of these may be traced
to Roman influence. Unfortunately many, very many, of the old customs, once so generally observed
throughout Italy, are now passing out of use.

During the past few years several benevolent societies have distributed presents among the
poor and needy at Christmas time, an event that is known as the Albero di Natale--The Tree
of Nativity,--but little boys and girls of Italy do not yet know the delight of having a real
Christmas tree hung with lovely gifts, such as we have in America.

At sunset on Christmas Eve the booming of cannon from the Castle of St. Angelo announces the
beginning of the Holy Season. Papal banners are displayed from the castle, and crowds wend
their way toward St. Peter's, the object of every one's desire who is so fortunate as to be
in Rome at this season, for there the service is the most magnificent in the world. Every Roman
Catholic Church is crowded on Holy Night with men, women, and children, anxious to see the
procession of church officials in their beautiful robes, who carry the Bambino about the church
for the worshipers to behold and kiss its robes or its toe. The larger the church the more
beautiful the sight generally, although to a Protestant beholder the smaller churches with
their enforced simplicity often prove more satisfactory to the spirit of worship.

But whether the officials are clothed in scarlet robes, ermine capes, and purple cassocks,
and the walls covered with silken hangings of gold and crimson, with thousands of wax tapers
lighted, and real flowers adorning the altar and organ pipes; whether the Madonna on the left
of the altar is attired in satin and gleaming with precious jewels, and the presepio on the
right is a marvel of elegance, with the Bambino wrapped in gold and silver tissue studded with
jewels; or whether all is of an humble, simple character; the devout watch eagerly for the
appearance of the Babe to be laid in the manger when the midnight bells peal forth the glad
tidings of its birth. In each church the organ sounds its joyous accompaniment to the sweet
voices of the choir which sings the Magnificat. The music is in itself a rare treat to listeners
as it is always the best, the very best that can be procured. At two o'clock on Christmas morning
the Shepherds' Hymn is chanted, and at five o'clock the first High Mass is held. In some of
the larger churches solemn vespers are held Christmas afternoon, when the Holy Cradle is carried
around among the audience.

At St. Peter's it is required that all the men present shall wear dress-suits and that the
women be clothed in black, which offsets the brilliancy of the robes worn by the church officials,
for even the guards on duty are in elegant red and white uniforms. About ten o'clock in the
evening a procession of monks, priests, bishops, and cardinals, walking two and two, enters
the vast building just as the great choir of male voices with organ accompaniment sounds forth
the Magnificat. The procession is long, glowing in color, and very attractive to the eye, but
the object of each Romanist's desire is to see the Pope, who, in magnificent robes, and seated
in his crimson chair, is borne aloft on the shoulders of four men clothed in violet. On the
Pope's head gleams his richly gemmed tiara and his heavy robes sparkle with costly jewels.
Waving in front of His Eminence are two huge fans of white ostrich feathers set with eyes of
peacock feathers, to signify the purity and watchfulness of this highest of church functionaries.
Before His Holiness march the sixty Roman noblemen, his Guard of Honor, who form his escort
at all church festivals, while Cardinals, Bishops, and others, according to their rank, march
beside him, or near at hand.

With his thumb and two fingers extended in recognition of the Trinity, and at the same time
showing the ring of St. Peter which he always wears, the Pope, followed by the ecclesiastic
procession, passes down the nave between the files of soldiers, blessing the people as he goes.

Upon reaching the altar the Pope is escorted to an elevated seat while the choir sings the
Psalm of Entrance. Later, at the elevation of the Host, the cannon of St. Angelo (the citadel
of Rome, which was built in the time of the Emperor Hadrian) booms forth and every Roman Catholic
bows his head in prayer, wheresoever he may be. At the close of the service the gorgeous procession
is again formed and the Pope is carried out of the church, blessing the multitude as he passes.

New Year is the great Social feature of Yule-tide in Italy. Visits and some presents are exchanged
among friends, dinner parties, receptions, and fêtes of all kinds are in order, but all interest
centers in the church observances until Epiphany, or Bafana, as Italians term it, when children
hang up their stockings, céppo boxes are exchanged, and people indulge in home pleasures to
some extent. The wild hilarity of the Saturnalian festivities of former times is fast dying
out, for the growth of cities and towns has not proved conducive to such observances, and only
in the smaller places is anything of the sort observed.

Yule-tide in Italy at the present day is principally a church festival.

THE EVE OF CHRISTMAS

(1901)

    Cometh the yearly Feast, the wonderous Holy Night,
    Worthy of sacred hymn and solemn rite.

