In his answer to these, Mr. Cheever explained his actions as arising from violent headaches,
which, coming upon him usually "on the Lord's day in the evening, and after church meeting,"
were mitigated by winding his handkerchief around his head 'as a fillet.' As to his smiling
or laughing, "he knew not whether there was any more than a natural, ordinary cheerfulness
of countenance seeming to smile, which whether it be sinful or avoidable by him, he knew not;"
but he wished to humble himself for the "least appearance of evil, and occasion of offence,
and to watch against it." As to his working with the church, he said: "I must act with the
church, and (which is uncomfortable) I must either act with their light, or may expect to suffer,
as I have done, and do at this day, for conscience' sake; but I had rather suffer anything
from men than make a shipwreck of a good conscience or go against my present light, though
erroneous, when discovered."

He then went on to say that, while he did not wholly free himself from blame as to his carriage,
and as to his "want of wisdom and coolness in ordering and uttering his speeches," yet he could
not be convinced as yet that he had been guilty of "Miriam's sin," or deserved the censure
which the church had inflicted upon him; and he could not look upon it "as dispensed according
to the rules of Christ." Then he closed his address with the following words, which will give
some idea of his Christian spirit: "Yet I wait upon God for the discovery of truth in His own
time, either to myself or church, that what is amiss may be repented of and reformed; that
His blessing and presence may be among them and upon His holy ordinances rightly dispensed,
to His glory and their present and everlasting comfort, which I heartily pray for, and am so
bound, having received much good and comfort in that fellowship, though I am now deprived of it."

At about this time of his trial with the church he was afflicted by the death of his wife.
Three more children had been born to them--Elizabeth, Sarah, and Hannah. Soon after this, in
1650,--and, it has been said, on account of his troubles,--he removed to Ipswich, Massachusetts,
to become master of the grammar school there. His services as teacher in New Haven must have
been valued, if one can judge by the amount of salary received, for, in the case of the teacher
who followed him, the people were not willing "to pay as large a salary as they had done to
Mr. Cheever," and so they gave him ten pounds a year.

After Mr. Cheever had been in Ipswich two years, Robert Payne, a philanthropic man, gave to
the town a dwelling-house with two acres of land for the schoolmaster; he also gave a new schoolhouse
for the school, of which this man was the appreciated teacher; for many neighboring towns sent
scholars to him, and it was said that those who received "the Cheeverian education" were better
fitted for college than any others.

In November of this same year he married Ellen Lathrop, sister of Captain Thomas Lathrop, of
Beverly, who two years before had brought her from England to America with him, with the promise
that he would be a father to her. While living in Ipswich they had four children, Abigail,
Ezekiel, Nathaniel, and Thomas; two more, William and Susanna, were born later, in Charlestown.
Their son Ezekiel must have lived to a good old age, at least seventy-seven years, for as late
as 1731 his name appears in the annals of the village parish of Salem, where he became heir
to Captain Lathrop's real estate; while their son Thomas, born in 1658, was graduated at Harvard
College in 1677, was settled as a minister at Malden, Massachusetts, and later at Rumney Marsh
(Chelsea), Massachusetts, where he died at a good old age.

After having thus lived in Ipswich eleven years, Mr. Cheever removed, in 1661, to Charlestown,
Massachusetts, to become master of the school there at a salary of thirty pounds a year. The
smallness of this salary astonishes and suggests much to the modern reader; but when he is
informed that the worthy teacher was obliged during his teaching there to petition the selectmen
that his "yeerly salarie be paid to him, as the counstables were much behind w'th him," the
whole matter becomes pathetic. Mr. Cheever also asked that the schoolhouse, which was much
out of order, be repaired. And in 1669 he is again before them asking for a "peece of ground
or house plott whereon to build an house for his familie," which petition he left for the townsmen
to consider. They afterward voted that the selectmen should carry out the request, but as Mr.
Cheever removed in the following year to Boston, it is probable that his successor had the
benefit of it.

When Mr. Cheever entered upon his work as head master of the Boston Latin School, in 1670,
he was fifty-seven years old; and he remained master of this school until his death, thirty-seven
years later. The schoolhouse was, at this time, in School Street (it was not so named by the
town, however, until 1708) just behind King's Chapel, on a part of the burying-ground. It has
been said that the building was of two stories to accommodate the teacher and his family. This
seems probable when we read that Mr. Cheever was to have a salary of sixty pounds a year, and
the "possession and use of y'e schoole house." But if he lived in the building at all, it was
not very long, for he is later living in a house by himself; and in 1701 the selectmen voted
that two men should provide a house for him while his house was being built. The agreement
which the selectmen made with Captain John Barnet with reference to this house is given in
such curious detail in the old records, and suggests so much, that it is well worth reading.
It is as follows:--

  "That the said Barnet shall erect a House on the Land where Mr. Ezekiel
  Cheever Lately dwelt, of forty foot Long Twenty foot wide and Twenty
  foot stud with four foot Rise in the Roof, to make a cellar floor under
  one half of S'd house and to build a Kitchen of Sixteen foot in
  Length and twelve foot in breadth with a Chamber therein, and to Lay the
  floors flush through out the maine house and to make three paire of
  Stayers in y'e main house and one paire in the Kitchen and to Inclose
  s'd house and to do and complete all carpenters worke and to find all
  timber boards clapboards nayles glass and Glaziers worke and Iron worke
  and to make one Cellar door and to finde one Lock for the Outer door of
  said House, and also to make the Casements for S'd house, and perform
  S'd worke and to finish S'd building by the first day of August
  next. In consideration whereof the Selectmen do agree that the S'd
  Capt. Barnet shall have the Old Timber boards Iron worke and glass of
  the Old house now Standing on S'd Land and to pay unto him the Sum of
  one hundred and thirty pounds money, that is to say forty pounds down in
  hand and the rest as the worke goes on."

Then follows the agreement for the "masons' worke" in all its details. Later on, in March,
1702, there is some discussion as to how far back from the street the house should be placed.
But in June of that year the house is up, for the worthy dignities order that "Capt. John Barnard
do provide a Raysing Dinner for the Raysing the Schoolmasters House at the Charge of the town
not exceeding the Sum of Three pounds." This was done, for later they order the "noat for three
pounds, expended by him for a dinner at Raysing the Schoolmasters House," be paid him.

