A. No: I lived aft; I heard nothing about it; Capt. Joy of the Lyra, was on board nearly all day.

Q. How were you stationed during the night?

A. The Captain, first and second mates, kept no watch during that night; the rest of the crew
were stationed in three watches, in charge of the third mate and boat-steerers.

Q. Who had charge of the first watch during that night?

A. I had charge of the watch from 7 to 10 o'clock. At 8 the Captain came on deck, and had two
reefs taken in the topsails, and at 9 went down, leaving me the orders for the night, to keep
the ship by the wind, until two o'clock, and not to tack until the other watch came up; and
on tacking, a light to be set for the Lyra who was in company, to tack also.

At 10 o'clock I went below, being relieved by the boat-steerer Comstock, to whom I passed the
orders given me by the Captain,----(Here follows a detailed account of the mutiny, with which
the reader has already been made acquainted.)

Q. Do you believe that Joseph Thomas had any knowledge of Comstock's intent to commit murder
that night?

A. I think he must have known something about it, according to his talk.

Q. Do you believe that any other person in the ship, besides those persons who committed the
murder, knew of the intention?

A. Thomas Lilliston knew about it, because he went to the cabin door with an axe, and a boat
knife in his hand, in company with the murderers, but he did not go below.

Q. Did you live with them aft, afterwards?

A. No: I lived in the forecastle, but all on board eat in the cabin.

Q. Name all the persons you left on the Island, where you cut the cable of the ship and escaped.

A. Silas Payne, John Oliver, (being the principal mutineers next to Samuel B. Comstock,) Thomas
Lilliston, Rowland Coffin, William Lay, Cyrus M. Hussey, Columbus Worth, Rowland Jones, and
the Sandwich Island native, called Joseph Brown. The last five I believe ignorant of any knowledge
of the intent to murder.

Q. What became of Samuel B. Comstock, who was the head mutineer after he landed upon the Island?

A. He was shot on the morning of the 17th Feb. by Silas Payne, and John Oliver, his associates
in all the mutiny and murderous course they had pursued, and buried five feet deep on the beach
near their tent; a chapter was read from the bible by me, acting under the orders of Payne,
and muskets were fired by his orders, by the men.

Q. Why did they murder Comstock?

A. For giving away to the natives clothes and other articles before they were divided.

Q. Were the natives friendly and quiet?

A. Yes; very peaceable, gave away any thing they had; bread fruit, cocoanuts and other things.

Q. How did Joseph Thomas conduct himself during the passage from the Isle to this port?

A. In common, when help was called, he was the first man disobedient, and frequently said he
would do as he pleased.

Q. Did he often speak of the murder, or of his knowing it about to take place?

A. I only remember, having heard him twice. I told him when we arrived, I would inform the
American Consul of it; to which he replied, he should own all he knew about it.

Q. To what State does he belong to your knowledge?

A. To the State of Connecticut, he says.

    (Signed) GILBERT SMITH.
        Sworn to, before me at Valparaiso,
          this eighteenth day of June, 1824.

    (Signed) MICHAEL HOGAN,
        U. S. Consul.

The examination of the others who came in the ship, was but a repetition of the foregoing.
All, however, concurred in believing, that Joseph Thomas was privy to the intention to mutiny,
and murder the officers.

The ship was then furnished with necessary sails and rigging, and placed in charge of a Captain
King, who brought her to the Island of Nantucket, arriving on Sunday 21st November, 1824. Another
examination was held before Josiah Hussey, Esq. and all testified, as before the American Consul
at Valparaiso.

Thomas, who was put in irons as soon as the land was discovered, was arraigned before the above
named justice, and after an elaborate hearing, the prisoner was committed to jail, to take
his trial at the following term of the U. S. District Court, and the witnesses recognised in
the sum of three hundred dollars each.

Leaving Thomas, awaiting his trial, and the others in the enjoyment of the society of their
families and friends, we will return to the Mulgrave Islands, the scene of no inconsiderable
portion of our distresses and adventures.

On the 17th Feb. when night came, the watch was set consisting of two men, whose duty it was
to guard against the thefts of the natives. At about 10 P. M. all hands were awakened by the
cry; "The ship has gone, the ship has gone!" Every one hastened to the beach and verified the
truth of the report for themselves. Some who were ignorant of the intention of Smith and others,
to take the ship, were of opinion that the strong breeze then blowing, had caused her to drag
her anchor, and that she would return in the morning.

The morning came, but nothing was to be seen upon the broad expanse of ocean, save here and
there a solitary seagull, perched upon the crested billow. Payne in a paroxism of rage, vented
the most dreadful imprecations; swearing that could he get them once more in his power, he
would put them to instant death. Not so with us; a ray of hope shot through our minds, that
this circumstance might be the means of rescuing us from our lonely situation.--The writers
of this narrative were upon the most intimate terms, and frequently, though carefully, sympathized
with each other upon their forlorn situation. We dare not communicate our disaffection to the
Government of the two surviving mutineers, (Payne and Oliver,) to the others, fearing they
might not agree with us in opinion, and we had too good reason to believe, that there was one,
who although unstained by blood, yet from his conduct, seemed to sanction the proceedings of
the mutineers.

The natives assembled in great numbers around the tent, expressing great surprise at the ship's
having left,--Payne gave them to understand that the wind had forced her to sea, and that from
her want of sails, rigging, &c. she must be lost, and would never return.--The natives received
the assurance with satisfaction, but it was evident, Payne apprehended her safe arrival at
some port, and his own punishment; for we were immediately set to work, to tear one boat to
pieces, for the purpose of raising upon another, which was to have a deck; Payne, alleging
as a reason for this, that the natives might compel us to leave the Island. We leave the reader
to judge, however, of his motives, while we proceed to give an account of what actually did
transpire.

The natives in considerable numbers continued to attend us, and while the work was progressing,
exhibited a great deal of curiosity. Their deportment towards us continued to be of the most
friendly nature, continuing to barter with us, giving us bread fruit, cocoanuts, &c. for which
they received in return, pieces of iron hoop, nails, and such articles as we could conveniently
spare.

The small Islands of this groupe are frequently only separated by what are sometimes denominated
causeways, or in other words, connected by reefs of coral, extending from the extreme point
of one Island and connecting it with another. These reefs are nearly dry at low water, and
the communication is easily kept up between them by the natives on foot.

On the 19th, in the morning, having obtained permission, several of us left the tent, travelling
to the Eastward.--After crossing upon the causeways to several adjacent islands, we discovered
numerous tracks of the natives in the sand, and having followed them about seven miles, came
to a village consisting of about twenty or thirty families; and were received by them with
great hospitality. They presented us with bread fruit and the milk of cocoanuts, while the
wonder and astonishment of those who had not as yet seen us, particularly the women and children,
were expressed by the most uncouth grimaces, attended with boisterous laughter, and capering
around us. What more particularly excited their astonishment was the whiteness of our skins,
and their mirth knew no bounds when they heard us converse.

Early on the morning of the 20th, we were ordered to go to work upon the boat; but at the request
of a number, this duty was dispensed with, and we permitted to stroll about the Island. A number
went to the village, carrying with them muskets, at the report of which and the effect produced
by the balls, the natives were struck with wonder and astonishment. The reader will no doubt
agree with us when we pronounce this to have been a bad policy, for they certainly disliked
to have visitors possessed of such formidable and destructive weapons. They however continued
to visit the tent without discovering any hostile intentions, and we continued to put the utmost
confidence in them, or more properly speaking to live without any fear of them.

I (William Lay,) left the tent on a visit to the village, where I was received with the same
kindness as before.--An old man between 50 and 60 years of age, pressed me to go to his house
and tarry during the night, which I did.--The natives continued in and around the tent until
a late hour, gratifying their curiosity by a sight of me. I was provided with some mats to
sleep upon, but the rats, with which the Island abounds, prevented my enjoying much sleep.

At 10 o'clock I took my leave of them, with the exception of a number, who accompanied me to
the tent.

Silas Payne and John Oliver, together with two or three others, set out in one of the boats,
for the purpose of exploring the Island, and making new discoveries, leaving the rest of us
to guard the tent. They were absent but one night, when they returned, bringing with them two
young women, whom Payne and Oliver took as their wives. The women apparently showing no dissatisfaction,
but on the contrary appeared much diverted. Payne now put such confidence in the natives, that
he dispensed with having a watch kept during the night, and slept as secure as though he had
been in his native country.

Payne, on awaking near morning, found the woman that he had brought to live with him was missing.
After searching the tent, and finding nothing of her, concluded she had fled. He accordingly
armed himself, together with John Oliver and Thomas Lilliston, (with muskets,) and set out
for the nearest village, for the purpose of searching her out. They arrived at the village
before it was light, and secreted themselves near an Indian hut, where they awaited the approach
of day, in hopes of seeing her. Accordingly at the approach of day-light, they discovered the
hut literally thronged with natives, and among the number, they discovered the woman they were
in search of. At this moment one of them fired a blank cartridge over their heads, and then
presented themselves to their view, which frightened the natives in such a manner that they
left the hut and fled. Payne then pursued after, firing over their heads till he caught the
one he wanted, and then left the village for his own tent.--On arriving at the tent, he took
her, gave her a severe flogging and then put her in irons, and carried on in this kind of style
until he was by them killed, and called to render up his accounts to his offended Judge.

This severity on the part of Payne, irritated the natives, and was undoubtedly the cause of
their committing depredations and theft, and finally murdering all our remaining crew, excepting
myself and Hussey.

Early on the succeeding morning, it was discovered that the tool chest had been broken open,
and a hatchet, chisel, and some other articles, purloined by the natives. Payne worked himself
into a passion, and said he would be revenged. During the day he informed a number of the natives
of what had been done, (who signified much regret at the circumstance,) and vowing vengeance
if the articles were not returned. During this day the natives frequented the tent more than
they had ever done before; and at night one of them came running with one half of the chisel
which had been stolen, it having been broken in two.

Payne told them it was but half of what he required, and put the Indian in irons, signifying
to him, that in the morning he must go with him to the village, and produce the rest of the
articles, and also point out the persons engaged in breaking open the chest. The poor native
seemed much chagrined at his confinement; yet his companions who remained near the tent during
the night, manifested no dissatisfaction, which we could observe.

In the morning, Payne selected four men, viz: Rowland Coffin, Rowland Jones, Cyrus M. Hussey,
and Thomas Lilliston, giving them each a musket, some powder and fine shot; declining to give
them balls, saying, the report of the muskets would be sufficient to intimidate them. The prisoner
was placed in charge of these men, who had orders to go to the village, and recover the hatchet
and bring back the person whom the prisoner might point out as the thief.

They succeeded in getting the hatchet, but when about to return, the natives in a great body,
attacked them with stones. Finding that they retreated, the natives pursued them, and having
overtaken Rowland Jones, killed him upon the spot. The remainder, although bruised with the
stones which these Islanders had thrown with great precision, arrived at the tent with the
alarming intelligence of a difficulty;--while they followed in the rear armed for war!

No time was lost in arming ourselves, while the natives collected from all quarters, and at
a short distance from the tent, seemed to hold a kind of council. After deliberating some time,
they began to tear to pieces one of the boats.

These were of vital importance to our guilty commander, and he ventured to go to them for the
purpose of pacifying them. One of the Chiefs sat down upon the ground with him, and after they
had set a few moments, Payne accompanied the Chief into the midst of the natives. After a conference
with them which lasted nearly an hour, he returned to the tent, saying that he had pacified
the natives upon the following conditions. They were to have every article belonging to us,
even to the tent; and Payne had assured them of his willingness, and that of the others to
live with, and be governed by them, and to adopt their mode of living! We have reason to doubt
the sincerity of Payne in this respect, for what was to us a hope which we cherished with peculiar
pleasure, must have been to him, a source of fearful anticipation--we mean the probable safe
arrival of the ship, in the U. S. which should result in our deliverance. Our situation at
this time was truly alarming; and may we not with propriety say, distressing? Surrounded by
a horde of savages, brandishing their war clubs and javelins, our more than savage commanders,
(Payne and Oliver) in anxious suspense as to the result of their negociations with them; no
refuge from either foe, and what contributed not a little to our unhappiness, was a consciousness
of being innocent of having in the least manner wilfully aided the destroyers of the lives
of our officers, and the authors of our now, truly unhappy situation.

The natives now began to help themselves to whatever articles suited them, and when some of
them began to pull the tent down, an old man and his wife took hold of me, and after conducting
me a few rods from the tent, sat down, keeping fast hold of my hands. Under the most fearful
apprehensions I endeavoured to get from them, but they insisted upon detaining me. I endeavoured
to console myself with the idea, that gratitude had prompted them to take care of me, as I
had frequently taken the part of this old woman, when she had been teased by others; but alas!
the reflection followed, that if this was the case, there was a probability that not only my
bosom friend, was about to be sacrificed, but I should be left alone to drag out a weary existence,
with beings, strangers to the endearing ties which bind the hearts of civilized man.

Whether Payne and his associates offered any resistance to the course now pursued by the natives
or not, I do not know. Suffice it to say, that all at once my ears were astounded with the
most terrifying whoops and yells; when a massacre commenced but little exceeded by the one
perpetrated on board the Globe. Our men fled in all directions, but met a foe at every turn.
Lilliston and Joe Brown (the Sandwich Islander,) fell within six feet of me, and as soon as
down, the natives macerated their heads with large stones. The first whom I saw killed, was
Columbus Worth. An old woman, apparently sixty years of age, ran him through with a spear,
and finished him with stones!

My protectors, for now they were truly so, shut out the scene by laying down upon the top of
me, to hide me from the view of the merciless foe! I was however discovered, and one of the
natives attempted to get a blow at me with a handspike, which was prevented by them; when,
after a few words, he hurried away.

As soon as the work of death had been completed, the old man took me by the hand and hurried
me along towards the village. My feet were very much laccerated in passing over the causeways
of sharp coral rock, but my conductor fearing we might be pursued, hurried me onward to the
village, where we arrived about noon. In a few minutes the wigwam or hut of the old man, was
surrounded, and all seeming to talk at once, and with great excitement, I anticipated death
every moment. Believing myself the sole survivor, the reader must pardon any attempt to describe
my feelings, when I saw a number of the natives approaching the hut, and in the midst, Cyrus
M. Hussey, conducted with great apparent kindness.

Notwithstanding we had both been preserved much after the same manner, we could not divest
ourselves of the apprehension, that we perhaps had been preserved, for a short time, to suffer
some lingering death.

Our interview was only long enough to satisfy each other that we alone survived the massacre,
when we were separated; Hussey being taken away, and it seemed quite uncertain, even if our
lives were spared, whether we ever saw each other again.

CHAPTER IV.

On the following day, however, accompanied by natives, we met at the scene of destruction,
and truly it was an appalling one to us. The mangled corpses of our companions, rendered more
ghastly from the numerous wounds they had received, the provisions, clothing, &c. scattered
about the ground, the hideous yells of exultation uttered by the natives, all conspired to
render our situation superlatively miserable.

We asked, and obtained leave from our masters, to bury the bodies which lay scattered about.
We dug some graves in the sand, and after finishing this melancholy duty, were directed to
launch the canoes, preparatory to our departure, (for we had come in canoes) when we begged
permission, which was readily granted, to take some flour, bread and pork, and our respective
masters assisted us in getting a small quantity of these articles into the largest canoe. We
also took a blanket each, some shoes, a number of books, including a bible, and soon arrived
at the landing place near the village. As the natives seemed desirous of keeping us apart,
we dare not make any inquiries for each other, but at my request, having boiled some pork in
a large shell, Hussey was sent for, and we had a meal together; during which time, the natives
assembled in great numbers, all anxious to get a sight, not only of our novel mode of cutting
the meat and eating it, but of the manner in which we prepared it. One of them brought us some
water in a tin cup, as they had seen us drink frequently when eating.

The natives now began to arrive from distant parts of the islands, many of whom had not yet
heard of us, and we were continually subjected to the examination of men, women and children.
The singular colour of our skin, was the greatest source of their admiration, and we were frequently
importuned to adopt their dress.

On the 28th Feb. early in the morning the whole village appeared to be in motion. All the adults
commenced ornamenting themselves, which to me appeared to render them hideous. After greasing
themselves with cocoanut oil, and hanging about them numerous strings of beads, they set off,
taking us with them, to a flat piece of ground, about half a mile distant, where we found collected
a great number, and all ornamented in the same fantastic manner.--Knowing that many of the
natives inhabiting Islands in the Pacific Ocean, are cannibals, we were not without our fears
that we had been preserved to grace a feast! Our apprehensions, however, were dissipated, when
we saw them commence a dance, of which we will endeavour to give the reader some idea. The
only musical instrument we saw, was a rude kind of drum; and the choristers were all females,
say twenty or thirty, each having one of these drums. The music commenced with the women, who
began upon a very low key, gradually raising the notes, while the natives accompanied them
with the most uncouth gesticulations and grimaces. The precision with which about three hundred
of these people, all dancing at a time, regulated their movements, was truly astonishing; while
the yelling of the whole body, each trying to exceed the other, rendered the scene to us, not
only novel, but terrifick.

The dance ended near night, and those natives who lived in a distant part of the Island, after
gratifying their curiosity by gazing upon us, and even feeling of our skins, took their departure.

After our return to the village, we cooked some meat upon the coals, and with some bread, made
a hearty meal. One source of regret to us, was, that the natives began to like our bread, which
heretofore they had scarcely dared to taste; and particularly the woman whom I called mistress,
ate, to use a sea phrase, her full allowance.

The natives expressed great dislike at our conversing together, and prohibited our reading,
as much as possible. We never could make them comprehend that the book conveyed ideas to us,
expressed in our own language.

Whether from a fear that we might concert some plan of escape, or that we might be the means
of doing them some injury while together, we know not;--but about the first of April, we discovered
that we were about to be separated! The reader may form some idea of our feelings when we were
informed that Hussey was to be taken by his master and family, to a distant part of the Island!
Not having as yet become sufficiently acquainted with their language, we were unable to comprehend
the distance from our present location.

