"Well, Lambert," said Lord Ballindine, across the table, to the stingy gentleman with the squint,
"are you going to ride hard to-day?"

"I'll go bail I'm not much behind, my lord," said Lambert; "if the dogs go, I'll follow."

"I'll bet you a crown, Lambert," said his cousin, young Brown of Mount Brown, "the dogs kill,
and you don't see them do it."

"Oh, that may be, and yet I mayn't be much behind."

"I'll bet you're not in the next field to them."

"Maybe you'll not be within ten fields yourself."

"Come, Lambert, I'll tell you what--we'll ride together, and I'll bet you a crown I pound you
before you're over three leaps."

"Ah, now, take it easy with yourself," said Lambert; "there are others ride better than you."

"But no one better than yourself; is that it, eh?"

"Well, Jerry, how do the new articles fit?" said Nicholas Dillon.

"Pretty well, thank you: they'd be a deal more comfortable though, if you'd pay for them."

"Did you hear, Miss O'Kelly, what Jerry Blake did yesterday?" said Nicholas Dillon aloud, across
the table.

"Indeed, I did not," said Guss--"but I hope, for the sake of the Blakes in general, he didn't
do anything much amiss?"

"I'll tell you then," continued Nicholas. "A portion of his ould hunting-dress--I'll not specify
what, you know--but a portion, which he'd been wearing since the last election, were too shabby
to show: well, he couldn't catch a hedge tailor far or near, only poor lame Andy Oulahan, who
was burying his wife, rest her sowl, the very moment Jerry got a howld of him. Well, Jerry
was wild that the tailors were so scarce, so he laid his hands on Andy, dragged him away from
the corpse and all the illigant enthertainment of the funeral, and never let him out of sight
till he'd put on the last button."

"Oh, Mr Blake!" said Guss, "you did not take the man away from his dead wife?"

"Indeed I did not, Miss O'Kelly: Andy'd no such good chance; his wife's to the fore this day,
worse luck for him. It was only his mother he was burying."

"But you didn't take him away from his mother's funeral?"

"Oh, I did it according to law, you know. I got Bingham to give me a warrant first, before
I let the policeman lay a hand on him."

"Now, General, you've really made no breakfast at all," said the hospitable hostess: "do let
Guss give you a hot cup of coffee."

"Not a drop more, Mrs O'Kelly. I've done more than well; but, if you'll allow me, I'll just
take a crust of bread in my pocket."

"And what would you do that for?--you'll be coming back to lunch, you know."

"Is it lunch, Mrs O'Kelly, pray don't think of troubling yourself to have lunch on the table.
Maybe we'll be a deal nearer Creamstown than Kelly's Court at lunch time. But it's quite time
we were off. As for Bingham Blake, from the look of him, he's going to stay here with your
daughter Augusta all the morning."

"I believe then he'd much sooner be with the dogs, General, than losing his time with her."

"Are you going to move at all, Ballindine," said the impatient old sportsman. "Do you know
what time it is?--it'll be twelve o'clock before you have the dogs in the cover."

"Very good time, too, General: men must eat, you know, and the fox won't stir till we move
him. But come, gentlemen, you seem to be dropping your knives and forks. Suppose we get into
our saddles?"

And again the red-coats sallied out. Bingham gave Guss a tender squeeze, which she all but
returned, as she bade him take care and not go and kill himself. Peter Dillon stayed to have
a few last words with Sophy, and to impress upon her his sister Nora's message, that she and
her sister were to be sure to come over on Friday to Ballyhaunis, and spend the night there.

"We will, if we're let, tell Nora," said Sophy; "but now Frank's at home, we must mind him,
you know."

"Make him bring you over: there'll be a bed for him; the old house is big enough, heaven knows."

"Indeed it is. Well, I'll do my best; but tell Nora to be sure and get the fiddler from Hollymount.
It's so stupid for her to be sitting there at the piano while we're dancing."

"I'll manage that; only do you bring Frank to dance with her," and another tender squeeze was
given--and Peter hurried out to the horses.

And now they were all gone but the Parson. "Mrs O'Kelly," said he, "Mrs Armstrong wants a favour
from you. Poor Minny's very bad with her throat; she didn't get a wink of sleep last night."

"Dear me--poor thing; Can I send her anything?"

"If you could let them have a little black currant jelly, Mrs Armstrong would be so thankful.
She has so much to think of, and is so weak herself, poor thing, she hasn't time to make those
things."

"Indeed I will, Mr Armstrong. I'll send it down this morning; and a little calf's foot jelly
won't hurt her. It is in the house, and Mrs Armstrong mightn't be able to get the feet, you
know. Give them my love, and if I can get out at all to-morrow, I'll go and see them."

And so the Parson, having completed his domestic embassy for the benefit of his sick little
girl, followed the others, keen for the hunt; and the three ladies were left alone, to see
the plate and china put away.

XXII.  THE HUNT

Though the majority of those who were in the habit of hunting with the Kelly's Court hounds
had been at the breakfast, there were still a considerable number of horsemen waiting on the
lawn in front of the house, when Frank and his friends sallied forth. The dogs were collected
round the huntsman, behaving themselves, for the most part, with admirable propriety; an occasional
yelp from a young hound would now and then prove that the whipper [36] had his eye on them,
and would not allow rambling; but the old dogs sat demurely on their haunches, waiting the
well-known signal for action. There they sat, as grave as so many senators, with their large
heads raised, their heavy lips hanging from each side of their jaws, and their deep, strong
chests expanded so as to show fully their bone, muscle, and breeding.

     [FOOTNOTE 36: whipper--an officer of the hunt whose duty was to
                   help the hunstman control the hounds]

Among the men who had arrived on the lawn during breakfast were two who certainly had not come
together, and who had not spoken since they had been there. They were Martin Kelly and Barry
Lynch. Martin was dressed just as usual, except that he had on a pair of spurs, but Barry was
armed cap-a-pie [37]. Some time before his father's death he had supplied himself with all
the fashionable requisites for the field,--not because he was fond of hunting, for he was not,--but
in order to prove himself as much a gentleman as other people. He had been out twice this year,
but had felt very miserable, for no one spoke to him, and he had gone home, on both occasions,
early in the day; but he had now made up his mind that he would show himself to his old schoolfellow
in his new character as an independent country gentleman; and what was more, he was determined
that Lord Ballindine should not cut him.

     [FOOTNOTE 37: cap-a-pie--from head to foot]

He very soon had an opportunity for effecting his purpose, for the moment that Frank got on
his horse, he unintentionally rode close up to him.

"How d'ye do, my lord?--I hope I see your lordship well?" said Barry, with a clumsy attempt
at ease and familiarity. "I'm glad to find your lordship in the field before the season's over."

"Good morning, Mr Lynch," said Frank, and was turning away from him, when, remembering that
he must have come from Dunmore, he asked, "did you see Martin Kelly anywhere?"

"Can't say I did, my lord," said Barry, and he turned away completely silenced, and out of
countenance.

Martin had been talking to the huntsman, and criticizing the hounds. He knew every dog's name,
character, and capabilities, and also every horse in Lord Ballindine's stable, and was consequently
held in great respect by Mick Keogh and his crew.

And now the business began. "Mick," said the lord, "we'll take them down to the young plantation,
and bring them back through the firs and so into the gorse. If the lad's lying there, we must
hit him that way."

"That's thrue for yer honer, my lord;" and he started off with his obedient family.

"You're wrong, Ballindine," said the Parson; "for you'll drive him up into the big plantation,
and you'll be all day before you make him break; and ten to one they'll chop him in the cover."

"Would you put them into the gorse at once then?"

"Take 'em gently through the firs; maybe he's lying out--and down into the gorse, and then,
if he's there, he must go away, and into a tip-top country too--miles upon miles of pasture--right
away to Ballintubber,"

"That's thrue, too, my lord: let his Rivirence alone for understandhing a fox," said Mick,
with a wink.

The Parson's behests were obeyed. The hounds followed Mick into the plantation, and were followed
by two or three of the more eager of the party, who did not object to receiving wet boughs
in their faces, or who delighted in riding for half an hour with their heads bowed close down
over their saddle-bows. The rest remained with the whipper, outside.

"Stay a moment here, Martin," said Lord Ballindine. "They can't get away without our seeing
them, and I want to speak a few words to you."

"And I want particularly to spake to your lordship," said Martin; "and there's no fear of the
fox! I never knew a fox lie in those firs yet."

"Nor I either, but you see the Parson would have his way. I suppose, if the priest were out,
and he told you to run the dogs through the gooseberry-bushes, you'd do it?"

"I'm blessed if I would, my lord! Every man to his trade. Not but what Mr Armstrong knows pretty
well what he's about."

"Well but, Martin, I'll tell you what I want of you. I want a little money, without bothering
those fellows up in Dublin; and I believe you could let me have it; at any rate, you and your
mother together. Those fellows at Guinness's are stiff about it, and I want three hundred pounds,
without absolutely telling them that they must give it me. I'd give you my bill for the amount
at twelve months, and, allow you six per cent.; but then I want it immediately. Can you let
me have it?"

"Why, my lord," said Martin, after pausing awhile and looking very contemplative during the
time, "I certainly have the money; that is, I and mother together; but--"

"Oh, if you've any doubt about it--or if it puts you out, don't do it."

"Divil a doubt on 'arth, my lord; but I'll tell you I was just going to ask your lordship's
advice about laying out the same sum in another way, and I don't think I could raise twice
that much."

"Very well, Martin; if you've anything better to do with your money, I'm sure I'd be sorry
to take it from you."

"That's jist it, my lord. I don't think I can do betther--but I want your advice about it."

"My advice whether you ought to lend me three hundred pounds or not! Why, Martin, you're a
fool. I wouldn't ask you to lend it me, if I thought you oughtn't to lend it."

"Oh--I'm certain sure of that, my lord; but there's an offer made me, that I'd like to have
your lordship's mind about. It's not much to my liking, though; and I think it'll be betther
for me to be giving you the money," and then Martin told his landlord the offer which had been
made to him by Daly, on the part of Barry Lynch. "You see, my lord," he concluded by saying,
"it'd be a great thing to be shut of Barry entirely out of the counthry, and to have poor Anty's
mind at ase about it, should she iver live to get betther; but thin, I don't like to have dailings
with the divil, or any one so much of his colour as Barry Lynch."

"This is a very grave matter, Martin, and takes some little time to think about. To tell the
truth, I forgot your matrimonial speculation when I asked for the money. Though I want the
cash, I think you should keep it in your power to close with Barry: no, you'd better keep the
money by you."

"After all, the ould woman could let me have it on the security of the house, you know, av'
I did take up with the offer. So, any way, your lordship needn't be balked about the cash."

"But is Miss Lynch so very ill, Martin?"

"'Deed, and she is, Mr Frank; very bad intirely. Doctor Colligan was with her three times yestherday."

"And does Barry take any notice of her now she's ill?"

"Why, not yet he didn't; but then, we kept it from him as much as we could, till it got dangerous
like. Mother manes to send Colligan to him to-day, av' he thinks she's not betther."

"If she were to die, Martin, there'd be an end of it all, wouldn't there?"

"Oh, in course there would, my lord"--and then he added, with a sigh, "I'd be sorry she'd die,
for, somehow, I'm very fond of her, quare as it'll seem to you. I'd be very sorry she should die."

"Of course you would, Martin; and it doesn't seem queer at all."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking about the money, then, my lord; I was only thinking of Anty herself:
you don't know what a good young woman she is--it's anything but herself she's thinking of always."

"Did she make any will?"

"Deed she didn't, my lord: nor won't, it's my mind."

"Ah! but she should, after all that you and your mother've gone through. It'd be a thousand
pities that wretch Barry got all the property again."

"He's wilcome to it for the Kellys, av' Anty dies. But av' she lives he shall niver rob a penny
from her. Oh, my lord! we wouldn't put sich a thing as a will into her head, and she so bad,
for all the money the ould man their father iver had. But, hark! my lord--that's Gaylass, I
know the note well, and she's as true as gould: there's the fox there, just inside the gorse,
as the Parson said"--and away they both trotted, to the bottom of the plantation, from whence
the cheering sound of the dog's voices came, sharp, sweet, and mellow.

Yes; the Parson was as right as if he had been let into the fox's confidence overnight, and
had betrayed it in the morning. Gaylass was hardly in the gorse before she discovered the doomed
brute's vicinity, and told of it to the whole canine confraternity. Away from his hiding-place
he went, towards the open country, but immediately returned into the covert, for he saw a lot
of boys before him, who had assembled with the object of looking at the hunt, but with the
very probable effect of spoiling it; for, as much as a fox hates a dog, he fears the human
race more, and will run from an urchin with a stick into the jaws of his much more fatal enemy.

"As long as them blackguards is there, a hollowing, and a screeching, divil a fox in all Ireland'd
go out of this," said Mick to his master.

"Ah, boys," said Frank, riding up, "if you want to see a hunt, will you keep back!"

"Begorra we will, yer honer," said one.

"Faix--we wouldn't be afther spiling your honer's divarsion, my lord, on no account," said another.

"We'll be out o' this althogether, now this blessed minute," said a third, but still there
they remained, each loudly endeavouring to banish the others.

At last, however, the fox saw a fair course before him, and away he went; and with very little
start, for the dogs followed him out of the covert almost with a view.

And now the men settled themselves to the work, and began to strive for the pride of place,
at least the younger portion of them: for in every field there are two classes of men. Those
who go out to get the greatest possible quantity of riding, and those whose object is to get
the least. Those who go to work their nags, and those who go to spare them. The former think
that the excellence of the hunt depends on the horses; the latter, on the dogs. The former
go to act, and the latter to see. And it is very generally the case that the least active part
of the community know the most about the sport.

They, the less active part above alluded to, know every high-road and bye-road; they consult
the wind, and calculate that a fox won't run with his nose against it; they remember this stream
and this bog, and avoid them; they are often at the top of eminences, and only descend when
they see which way the dogs are going; they take short cuts, and lay themselves out for narrow
lanes; they dislike galloping, and eschew leaping; and yet, when a hard-riding man is bringing
up his two hundred guinea hunter, a minute or two late for the finish, covered with foam, trembling
with his exertion, not a breath left in him--he'll probably find one of these steady fellows
there before him, mounted on a broken-down screw, but as cool and as fresh as when he was brought
out of the stable; and what is, perhaps, still more amazing, at the end of the day, when the
hunt is canvassed after dinner, our dashing friend, who is in great doubt whether his thoroughbred
steeplechaser will ever recover his day's work, and who has been personally administering warm
mashes and bandages before he would venture to take his own boots off, finds he does not know
half as much about the hunt, or can tell half as correctly where the game went, as our, quiet-going
friend, whose hack will probably go out on the following morning under the car, with the mistress
and children. Such a one was Parson Armstrong; and when Lord Ballindine and most of the others
went away after the hounds, he coolly turned round in a different direction, crept through
a broken wall into a peasant's garden, and over a dunghill, by the cabin door into a road,
and then trotted along as demurely and leisurely as though he were going to bury an old woman
in the next parish.

Frank was, generally speaking, as good-natured a man as is often met, but even he got excited
and irritable when hunting his own pack. All masters of hounds do. Some one was always too
forward, another too near the dogs, a third interfering with the servants, and a fourth making
too much noise.

"Confound it, Peter," he said, when they had gone over a field or two, and the dogs missed
the scent for a moment, "I thought at any rate you knew better than to cross the dogs that way."

"Who crossed the dogs?" said the other--"what nonsense you're talking: why I wasn't out of
the potato-field till they were nearly all at the next wall."

"Well, it may be nonsense," continued Frank; "but when I see a man riding right through the
hounds, and they hunting, I call that crossing them."

"Hoicks! tally"--hollowed some one--"there's Graceful has it again--well done, Granger! Faith,
Frank, that's a good dog! if he's not first, he's always second."

"Now, gentlemen, steady, for heaven's sake. Do let the dogs settle to their work before you're
a-top of them. Upon my soul, Nicholas Brown, it's ridiculous to see you!"

"It'd be a good thing if he were half as much in a hurry to get to heaven," said Bingham Blake.

"Thank'ee," said Nicholas; "go to heaven yourself. I'm well enough where I am."

And now they were off again. In the next field the whole pack caught a view of the fox just
as he was stealing out; and after him they went, with their noses well above the ground, their
voices loud and clear, and in one bevy.

Away they went: the game was strong; the scent was good; the ground was soft, but not too soft;
and a magnificent hunt they had; but there were some misfortunes shortly after getting away.
Barry Lynch, wishing, in his ignorance, to lead and show himself off, and not knowing how--scurrying
along among the dogs, and bothered at every leap, had given great offence to Lord Ballindine.
But, not wishing to speak severely to a man whom he would not under any circumstances address
in a friendly way, he talked at him, and endeavoured to bring him to order by blowing up others
in his hearing. But this was thrown away on Barry, and he continued his career in a most disgusting
manner; scrambling through gaps together with the dogs, crossing other men without the slightest
reserve, annoying every one, and evidently pluming himself on his performance. Frank's brow
was getting blacker and blacker. Jerry Blake and young Brown were greatly amusing themselves
at the exhibition, and every now and then gave him a word or two of encouragement, praising
his mare, telling how well he got over that last fence, and bidding him mind and keep well
forward. This was all new to Barry, and he really began to feel himself in his element;--if
it hadn't been for those abominable walls, he would have enjoyed himself. But this was too
good to last, and before very long he made a faux pas, which brought down on him in a torrent
the bottled-up wrath of the viscount.

They had been galloping across a large, unbroken sheep-walk, which exactly suited Barry's taste,
and he had got well forward towards the hounds. Frank was behind, expostulating with Jerry
Blake and the others for encouraging him, when the dogs came to a small stone wall about two
feet and a half high. In this there was a broken gap, through which many of them crept. Barry
also saw this happy escape from the grand difficulty of jumping, and, ignorant that if he rode
the gap at all, he should let the hounds go first, made for it right among them, in spite of
Frank's voice, now raised loudly to caution him. The horse the man rode knew his business better
than himself, and tried to spare the dogs which were under his feet; but, in getting out, he
made a slight spring, and came down on the haunches of a favourite young hound called "Goneaway";
he broke the leg close to the socket, and the poor beast most loudly told his complaint.

This was too much to be borne, and Frank rode up red with passion; and a lot of others, including
the whipper, soon followed.

"He has killed the dog!" said he. "Did you ever see such a clumsy, ignorant fool? Mr Lynch,
if you'd do me the honour to stay away another day, and amuse yourself in any other way, I
should be much obliged."

"It wasn't my fault then," said Barry.

"Do you mean to give me the lie, sir?" replied Frank.

"The dog got under the horse's feet. How was I to help it?"

There was a universal titter at this, which made Barry wish himself at home again, with his
brandy-bottle.

"Ah! sir," said Frank; "you're as fit to ride a hunt as you are to do anything else which gentlemen
usually do. May I trouble you to make yourself scarce? Your horse, I see, can't carry you much
farther, and if you'll take my advice, you'll go home, before you're ridden over yourself.
Well, Martin, is the bone broken?"

Martin had got off his horse, and was kneeling down beside the poor hurt brute. "Indeed it
is, my lord, in two places. You'd better let Tony kill him; he has an awful sprain in the back,
as well; he'll niver put a foot to the ground again."

"By heavens, that's too bad! isn't it Bingham? He was, out and out, the finest puppy we entered
last year."

"What can you expect," said Bingham, "when such fellows as that come into a field? He's as
much business here as a cow in a drawing-room."

"But what can we do?--one can't turn him off the land; if he chooses to come, he must."

"Why, yes," said Bingham, "if he will come he must. But then, if he insists on doing so, he
may be horsewhipped; he may be ridden over; he may be kicked; and he may be told that he's
a low, vulgar, paltry scoundrel; and, if he repeats his visits, that's the treatment he'll
probably receive."

