The Christian Foundation,

                                   Or,

                     Scientific and Religious Journal

                              Vol. 1. No 5.

                                May, 1880.

CONTENTS

The Old Covenant.—The Sabbath—The Law—The Commonwealth Of Israel, And Christ. Infidels Live
In Doubting Castle. Infidelity, And The French And American Revolutions In Their Relations
To Thomas Paine. Shall We Unchain The Tiger? Or, The Fruits Of Infidelity. The Struggle. The
Records Respecting The Death Of Thomas Paine. Three Reasons For Repudiating Infidelity. Col.
Ingersoll Is A Philosopher? Life Of Elder E. Goodwin.

THE OLD COVENANT.—THE SABBATH—THE LAW—THE COMMONWEALTH OF ISRAEL, AND CHRIST.

The original term, rendered “Testament” and “Covenant,” occurs thirty-three times in the New
Testament. Greenfield defines it thus: “Any disposition, arrangement, institution, or dispensation;
hence a testament, will; a covenant, mutual promises on mutual conditions, or promises with
conditions annexed.” Secondly, “A body of laws and precepts to which certain promises are annexed,
promises to which are annexed certain laws; the books in which the divine laws are contained,
the Old Testament, and especially the Pentateuch.” Upon a careful examination of these definitions
it will be seen at once that the term “Testament” is a good translation. This is confirmed,
in Paul’s letter to the Hebrews, in the inter-changeable use of the terms “Will,” “Covenant”
and “Testament.” Our Sabbatarian brethren claim, that the Old Covenant, which was done away,
was the verbal agreement of the Children of Israel to keep the law of the decalogue. But this
definition is not sufficient. It excludes almost all that was current in its use. It renders
it improper to call it a “Testament” or “Will,” because fathers make testaments or wills without
the consent of their children, and these are called dispositions of estates. Their definition
of the term also makes the “Covenant” depend upon the will of man, for covenants, in the sense
of agreements, have nothing to do with those who do not enter into them. Neither can men be
regarded as transgressing a covenant, in the sense of an agreement, unless they have first
placed themselves under its obligations. So, if these men are right in their definition of
the Old Covenant, they are wrong in trying to fasten its conditions upon all mankind. Their
logic also excludes, from all the promises of the covenant, all those who were incapable of
making an agreement. Hence, infants were left to the uncovenanted mercies of God. And as for
the wicked, who never agreed to keep those commandments, poor souls! they must be dealt with
as violators of a contract to which they never became a party.

These absurdities, which are legitimately drawn from their own premises, drive us to the conclusion
that their whole theory, upon the covenant question, is wrong. The apostle Paul says we are
the children of a covenant, which he denominates “The free woman.” “She is the mother of us
all.” But, according to Sabbatarian logic, they are the children of two covenants, or women.
How is this? One good mother is sufficient. When they tell you that the old covenant, which
was done away, was the people’s agreement to keep the ten commandments, remember that they,
by their own showing, set up the same old covenant by agreeing to keep the ten commandments.
So it is done away, and it is not done away. That is, if the people say, “We will keep and
do them,” it is established, but if they say, “We will not,” it is abolished. Again, if it
was the people’s agreement that was done away, and the ten commandments were the conditions
of that agreement, then they also are of no force, for the conditions of an agreement are always
void when the contract is nullified. Again, if the Lord had nothing to do in causing the Old
Covenant to be done away, how did it pass away by the action of one party to it? And how can
men enter into it without the concurring assent of the party of the second part? Accept the
Sabbatarian definition of the term covenant, and it legitimately follows that none were ever
in that covenant save those who held converse with Jehovah, through Moses, saying, “All these
things will we observe and do.” It is an old, trite saying, “that it takes two to make an agreement.”
And it also takes two to abrogate an agreement. But these friends of the seventh day say, The
people rendered that old covenant void by their wickedness, that they were at fault, that God
never abrogated it, that He always stood firm in reference to its conditions and promises,
holding the people to its obligations. Then how was it done away? And “in that day” the covenant
of God was broken by the Lord. Now, if the Lord broke that old covenant, it follows that no
man enters into it without one more concurring action upon His part. Upon what mountain has
He appeared and reënacted this covenant? And if it was simply the people’s agreement to keep
the ten commandments, how did He make it with all the people of Israel, seeing many of them
were incapable of entering into an agreement? The truth is this, the Lord made a covenant in
the sense of a “Testament” or institution. This sense alone admits of the irresponsible in
its provisions. In the argument from analogy, drawn from the introduction of the New Testament,
our position is confirmed. The Savior’s death gave force to this testament or will, without
any concurring action upon the part of any man or number of men. And it is a covenant in the
sense in which Greenfield defines the term, that is, in the sense of a testament, or will.
This also admits of covenanted or bequeathed blessings for all the incapable.

The Sabbatarian view of the term covenant, if applied to the “New Covenant,” cuts off all who
do not enter into this “contract.” But there is no reason in calling either testament a “contract.”
An earthly father may incorporate, among other things, conditions, in his testament, or will,
and it is in force, by his death, even though his children find fault with it. So it mattered
not whether any man in ancient Israel was satisfied with that ancient “testament.” But the
Bible nowhere limits the term covenant to the people’s agreement to keep the decalogue. These
commandments were AFTER THE TENOR of all that was given by Moses, as we learn in the thirty-fourth
chapter of Exodus. The reasons were placed upon the tables of stone along with the commandments.
When Sabbatarians hang up their copy of those tables, it is always a mutilated, partial copy.
The whole is given to us in the fifth chapter of Deuteronomy. No Seventh-day Adventist dare
exhibit the full copy before his audience, unless he does it at the peril of his teaching.
Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbor’s wife. The terms employed in this law limit it to the
Jewish people, a people who were servants in Egypt. This was the “testament,” “institution,”
or “covenant” given at Sinai, and it was after the tenor of all the rest that was given. It
is worthy of notice, that there is not a penalty in all that was written upon those tables.
And yet there were terrible penalties inflicted for a violation of its precepts. How is this?
Was it all there was of God’s law? If so, where shall we go to find its penalties? This covenant
is spoken of in Galatians, the fourth chapter. It is called “the bond woman,” that was cast
out. In the third chapter of Corinthians it is termed “the ministration of condemnation,” and
“the ministration of death written and engraven in stones, which was done away.” Which Zechariah
said was broken by the Lord in the day of the terrible tragedy of the cross of Christ.

The multiplicity of passages in the New Testament bearing upon this great fact, causes our
legalists in religion to shift about most wonderfully. At one time, the people’s agreement
to keep the law was the covenant that was done away. At another, it was the act of executing
the penalty of death that was set aside. At another, it was the glory of Moses’ face that was
done away. And at another, it was none of all these, but it was the ceremonial law of Moses
that was done away.

All these positions were taken by one man, in one discussion with the writer of these lines.
All such turns are cheap; it requires no great wisdom to accommodate yourself in this manner
to the force of circumstances. Moses gave all, that these men are pleased to term his law,
in the name of the Lord. The law of the passover, found in the twelfth chapter of Exodus, is
prefaced with these words: “And the Lord God said unto Moses.” In the twenty-fifth chapter
of the same book we have the laws concerning the ark, the tabernacle, the priestly service,
and all are introduced with this saying: “And the Lord spake unto Moses.” Moses never gave
a law in his own name. Neither did he give one of his own in the name of the Lord, because
it would have cost him his life. And if the record is false on this account, how can we trust
it in other respects? It is as easy to turn God out of all the pentateuch, and put Moses into
it, as to maintain the proposition that Moses had a law of his own. Sabbatarians act the part
of the unbeliever in getting the Lord out of the law that was done away, and Moses into it.
All that is accredited to the Lord was His, otherwise the record is untrustworthy. If our friend’s
position is true, it follows that Moses is the sole author of the sacrificial system of blood,
without which there was no remission, and thus the ancient remedial scheme falls, being without
divine sanction. But the Lord claims all that our friends hand over to Moses. The following
phrases are uttered with reference to the priests and other things: “My priest,” “My sacrifice,”
“Mine altar,” “Mine offering,” 1st Samuel, ii, 27-29; “The Lord’s pass-over,” Exodus, xii,
11; “The feasts of the Lord,” Lev. xxiii; “My sanctuary and my Sabbaths,” Ezekiel, xxiii, 38.
The manner in which Sabbatarians emphasize the phrase “My Sabbath,” and “My holy day,” is well
calculated to mislead the unsuspecting, but those who are schooled in biblical literature will
regard it as mere rant, cheap theology, mere display! All that Moses gave, as law, was from
the Lord, was His.

The seventh-day Sabbath was not given to the Gentile world. It would require just as plain
and positive legislation to bind it upon us as it did to establish it in Israel. It was a sign
between God and the Hebrews. Ezek. xxxi, 13-18. “Moreover, also, I gave them my Sabbaths, to
be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am Jehovah that doth sanctify them.”
If there are any Gentile Christians upon the earth who think it is essential to know that it
was the Lord that sanctified the children of Israel, set them apart from the surrounding nations,
I would say to such, It is sufficient to your salvation that you know the Lord, as manifested
in the flesh in the person of Christ Jesus, and that you love and obey him. I can not see that
the seventh-day Sabbath, as a sign upon a Gentile, would tell the truth, for the Lord never
sanctified the Gentiles in the sense of setting them apart from the surrounding nations. Again,
if our friends could succeed in making it universal, it would cease to be a sign. It was a
national badge, or sign, between God and the Hebrews. Its object was to keep in their memory
that which was true of them alone. It is impossible! The authority and glory of Christ forbid
all such Judaizing as that which we speak against. “He was given of God to be head over all
things to the church.” “And He is head of all principality and power.” The Father put all things
under Him. The prophet Isaiah said, “He shall not fail, nor be discouraged till He hath set
judgment in the earth, and the isles shall wait for His law.” Ch. xlii, 4.

The object of law is to regulate the exemplification of principles. Some principle is exemplified
in every act that man performs. And one principle may be in a great variety of acts. The principle
of hatred is exemplified in a great many different actions; and the principle of love to God
is manifested, or exemplified, in every act of obedience to God. So the spiritual may be brought
out under different dispensations, and by different laws, while it remains always the same.
Indeed, principles are unchangeable; they belong to the nature of things. Covenants, priesthoods,
dispensations and laws have changed, but principles, never. So the moral objective of every
law is the same, viz., to bring out and develop the spiritual in man. To accomplish this great
end it is necessary that the evil principles of a carnal, or fleshly nature, should be restrained
by the penal sanctions of law, and the principles of man’s higher nature brought out by its
motives of good. B. Wilson translates the verse in these words: “Do we then nullify law through
the FAITH. By no means; but we establish law.” The negative use of law is to restrain the evil;
and the affirmative is to bring out the good, the spiritual. So, without any interference with
the spiritual of any law that ever was, either divine or human, we have a better covenant,
or testament, than the old testament; one that is established upon better promises, which contains
“A new and living way into the Holiest,” which Paul says, “Is heaven itself.” This new way
was consecrated through the flesh of Christ. The rule of life in this way is the “Law of Christ.”
It is a better law, for us, because its precepts are not limited to our neighbor. The following
is a part, at least, of the contrast:

THE DECALOGUE GIVEN TO ISRAEL.

“Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbor. Neither shalt thou desire thy
neighbor’s wife. Thou shalt not kill.”

THE LAW OF CHRIST BOUND UPON THE WORLD.

“Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. But I say unto you, love your enemies. If thou
mayest be made free use it rather. Be ye not the servants of men. Whosoever looketh upon a
woman and lusteth after her hath committed adultery already in his heart.”

I have presented a sufficient amount of each law to show you a part of the great contrast which
exists on account of the ancient law being given to a people set apart from all the surrounding
nations by a legal wall interfering with them in their social walks in life. That law was sufficient
for all practical purposes among the Jews. But, since that “Middle wall of partition” has been
taken down, it is utterly useless to talk about a law limited to your neighbor being any longer
worthy of God, or a perfect rule for man’s conduct in his associations with all men. Indeed,
it never was a law regulating a man’s conduct with all men. The middle wall was taken out of
the way, and Jews and Gentiles have shook hands in Christian fellowship under the new institution.
Let us see how this was brought about. When the law brings about a separation, nothing short
of law can undo it, and bring about the union of the parties separated. But, as authority,
that controls law, is alone competent to remove legal results, we must look for this, as a
matter of necessity, lying at the foundation of the new institution. It is just there that
we find it in these words: “All authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. The God
of Abraham said unto Rebecca, “Two nations are in thy womb.” Gen. xxv, 23. This language had
its fulfillment in the decendants of Jacob and Esau. The political history of the children
of Jacob begins at Sinai with their beginning as a nation among the surrounding nations. The
law given at Sinai was a political law, for it was addressed to a community, pertained to a
community, and was accepted by a community.

Such is a political law in the strictest sense of the term. This law was given to the Jews,
the decendants of Jacob. So, Horeb and Sinai occur in the narrative of the same event. The
children of Jacob are known as a commonwealth, from the giving of the law onward until their
overthrow by the Romans. Paul, speaking of the Gentiles, in past times, says “They were aliens
to the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise.” The Jews called them
“dogs.” This great enmity had its origin in the two-fold consideration of the Jew being favored
in a temporal and political point of view, and the pride of his heart, which exalted him in
his own imagination above even his moral superiors. This corruption of the heart, with the
liability of its return, being removed by the abrogation of all that was peculiar to the Jews
and their conversion to Christ, Paul says, “That all are one in Christ.” Christ was the bond
of union, all were joined to him. But the same authority that separated them by legislation
must legislate with reference to this grand change that was to take place between these decendants
of Jacob and Esau. The law of commandments separating the Jews limited them in moral duties
to their neighbors. It was unlawful for them to go in unto one of another nation. It limited
them in trade and traffic to their own countrymen; also limited them to their own people in
matrimonial relations. So God must be heard again, I say, heard! for He was heard at the giving
of the law, which is now to be taken out of the way. See Heb. x, 9. Paul says: “As ye have
received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in Him.” This relation of duty to the reception
of Christ has direct reference to the character in which we receive him. He was given to rule,
to exercise Lordship. He is Lord of all. The term Lord signifies “ruler by right of possession.”
If He is not Lord of all there is an abundance of false testimony upon this one subject, and
Christianity is diseased in the head. And if he is Lord of all, then we should leave that old
mountain that shook and burned with fire, and all the political paraphernalia of Sinai, and
consider ourselves complete in Christ, who is “Emanuel, God with us.” If any man does this
he is not troubled with the old “bond woman.” Jehovah said of Christ: “I have given Him for
a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles.” Isaiah xlii, 2. New duties appear before
us in the New Testament, with new obligations lying at their foundation. Jesus said: “If I
had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin, but now they have no cloak for their
sins.” Again: “If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not
had sin; but now have they both seen and hated both Me and my Father.” John xv, 22-24.

