THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 10, No. 285.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1827. [Price 2d

CASTLE OF THE SEVEN TOWERS

 1. Triumphal Arch of Constantine.
 2. First Tower of the Pentagon.
 3. First Marble Tower.
 4. Second Marble Tower.
 5. Angle of the Pentagon with the fallen Tower.
 6. Double Tower.
 7. Dedecagonal tower.
 8. Square Tower of entrance to the Prison.
 9. Round Tower falling to decay.
10. House of the Aga, &c.
11. Garden of the Aga's House.
12. Cemetery of the Martyrs.

The celebrity of the Seven Towers in European countries, though strongly savouring of romance,
is no joke--it being the prison where the Turks confine the ministers and ambassadors of the
powers with whom they are at war. At the present moment this engraving will doubtless be acceptable
to our readers; especially to such of our City friends as have recently been induced to speculate
on the heads of ambassadors of the allied powers; and a few days since it might have served
as a scale for their wagering the "price of blood."

With the early account of this castle we shall be brief. It is cited in the history of the
lower empire from the sixth century of the Christian era, as a point which served for the defence
of Constantinople. The embrasures of some of its towers, as well as of the towers that flank
the ramparts of the town from the southern angle of the castle to the sea, blackened as is
supposed by the Greek fire, announce that it was the principal bulwark of the city on the side
of the Propontis, in the latter times of the empire. In 1453, Mahomet II., after an obstinate
siege, gained possession of Constantinople and the Castle of the Seven Towers, fear opening
to him one of the gates of the latter. The Turks relate that 12,000 men perished in this siege;
and the marks of the ravages of the artillery are still visible, for, as usual, the conqueror
did not concern himself about repairs. Since that time the place has been the arena of many
remarkable events, among which was the tragical murder of the caliph Osman the Second. This
has been followed up by many bloody executions; and at every turn gloomy sentiments, and the
proud names of Turks and Greek princes, inscribed on the walls, speak the sad fate of those
by whose hands they were traced. Towers filled with irons, chains, ancient arms, tombs, ruins,
dungeons, cold and silent vaults, a pit called the well of blood, the funeral cry of owls and
of vultures, mingled with the roar of the waves--such are the objects and sounds with which
the eye and ear are familiarized in these dreary abodes, according to poor Ponqueville, the
traveller, who speaks from experience--within the walls. All this is a sorry picture for the

  "--Gentlemen of England,
  Who live at home at ease."

But the state purposes to which the Seven Towers are appropriated boast of comparative comfort,
"the prisoners detained here being distinguished from all other prisoners of war by an allowance
for the table which is assigned them by the sultan, and by the appellation of mouzafirs, or
hostages.[1] It may, indeed," continues our traveller, "be considered as a great favour to
be regarded in this light, comparing their situation with that of others, who fall into captivity
among the Turks." Moreover, this castle is dignified as an imperial fortress, and governed
by an aga with a guard and a band of music. Indeed, we suppose it a sort of lock-up house preparatory
to more rigorous confinement; and its governorship is a peaceable and honourable post. The
Turks who compose the garrison of the Seven Towers have, in the first place, the advantage
of being esteemed persons of a certain distinction in their quarter; and, secondly, they are
exempted from going out to war, to which every Musselman is liable.

    [1] Probably on the plan of the lord mayor's household table.
    Well, Swift is right in supposing the great art of life to be
    that of hoaxing.

This castle stands at the eastern extremity of the Propontis, or Sea of Marmara; it is a tolerably
regular pentagon, four out of the five angles of which are flanked by towers; the fifth angle
had also a tower, but it exists no longer. Its principal front is towards the west, and has,
besides the tower at one of the angles, two others, which stand on each side the ancient triumphal
arch of Constantine. The gate of entrance to the Seven Towers on the side of the town is to
the east, in a small square. The longest side of the pentagon is that in which Constantine's
arch is included; while towers existed at all the angles, this side presented a front of four
towers; but it has now only three. The first marble tower is an enormous mass, between eighty
and ninety feet high.

The triumphal arch of Constantine, which occupies the centre between the two marble towers,
conducts to the golden gate in the exterior enclosure of the castle. The arch was more than
ninety feet in height; but it has been so much injured by artillery, that no idea can now be
formed of its ornaments. In the second marble tower is the Cave of Blood: the first door by
which it is entered is of wood; this opens into a corridor of twelve feet long by four feet
wide, having at the end two iron steps ascending to an iron door, and this leads into a semicircular
gallery; at its furthest extremity is a second iron door, which completes the gallery, and
ten feet further an immense massive door enclosing the dungeon. In the midst of this sarcophagus
is a well, the mouth of which is level with the ground, and half closed by two flag-stones;
to this is given the name of the well of blood, because the heads of those who are executed
in the dungeon are thrown into it. In the same tower with this dungeon is a staircase leading
up to a number of cells; from some of them, which are higher than the ramparts, the eye may
be gratified with a view over Constantinople through loop-holes pierced in the walls. Here
the Turks formerly used to confine those whom they call mouzafirs, or hostages; but the latter
have now the choice allowed them of hiring more eligible apartments.

The first enclosure of the Seven Towers is inhabited chiefly by poor Turks, who have houses,
and live there with their families. They also belong to the guard of the castle.

The air of the Seven Towers is in general unwholesome, and very likely to produce scrofula.
In the summer the walls, heated by the sun, transform the place into a furnace; and the apartments
on the first floor are at all times extremely damp.

Our engraving, aided by the subjoined references, will, however, enable our readers to form
an accurate idea of the topography of the Seven Towers. It is copied from the Travels of M.
Ponqueville, who devotes a chapter of his quarto volume to a minute description of towers,
gardens, and fortresses. Nothing can exceed the horror with which his catalogue of their miseries
is calculated to impress the reader; indeed, they fall but little short of some of the highly-wrought
fictions of barbarous romance.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASTRONOMICAL OCCURRENCES FOR DECEMBER, 1827.

(For the Mirror.)

The sun enters the cardinal and tropical sign Capricorn on the 22nd, attaining his greatest
austral declination at 1h. 31m. afternoon.

The moon is in opposition on the 3rd; in apogee on the 6th, and in conjunction and perigee
on the 18th.

Mercury is in perihelion on the 1st, becomes stationary on the 9th, and reaches his greatest
elongation on the 19th, when he may be seen before sunrise, as well as a few preceding and
succeeding mornings; be rises on the abovementioned day at 6h. 8m.

Venus is in aphelio on the 18th, and in conjunction with the planet Herschel on the 28th at
9 h. evening; she sets on the 1st at 4 h. 48 m., and on the 31st at 5-1/2 h. evening.

Mars rises on the 1st at 3h, 14m., and on the 31st at 2 h. 46 m. morning.

Jupiter rises on the 1st at 4 h. 39 m. and on the 31st at 3h. morning; he has now receded far
enough from the sun to render the eclipses of his nearest moon visible; the first immersion
will take place on the 3rd at 6 h. 39 m. 4 s. morning; the next on the 19th at 4 h. 54 m. 42
s. morning, and the last on the 26th at 6 h. 48 m. 14 s. morning, those being the only ones
that happen during the month.

Saturn who commenced retrograding on the 2nd, last month, in 20 deg. 18m. of Cancer, will on
the 31st have reached 17 deg. 26 m. of the same sign, and will be found a few degrees below
the star Pollux in the constellation Gemini, rising on the 1st at 6h. 49m., and on the 31st
at 4 h. 27 m. evening.

Herschel culminates on the 1st at 3 h. 23m., and on the 31st at 1 h. 17 m.

Fomalhaut in Pisces, a star of the first magnitude, and very much resembling the planet Saturn,
(except that its light is not so steady,) will be observed only a few degrees above the horizon
in the south west, coming to the meridian at 6 h. 19 m. evening; Markal in the wing of Pegasus,
the flying horse at 6 h. 26 m. Alpheratz and Mirach, the former in the head, and the latter
in the girdle, of Andromeda at 7 h. 31 m. and 8 h. 31 m. Menkar in the jaw of Cetus the whale
at 10 h. 24 m.; the four preceding are of the second magnitude. The Pleiades south at 11 h.
8m., and Aldebaran in Taurus, generally called the Bull's Eye, a brilliant star of the first
magnitude at 11 h. 56 m.; the upper or northern portion of the constellation Orion at 12-1/2
h., and the lower or southern part at 1 h. morning.

These remarks cannot be better concluded, than by calling the attention of the readers of the
MIRROR to the unerring regularity of the motion of the heavenly bodies. Though their magnitude
is so immense, the certainty and correctness of their movements during thousands of years,
is far more exact than that of the best chronometer ever made, even during a single year: how
great, then, must be the ignorance of him who does not behold in them the Almighty ruler of
all things; and how great the folly of him, who says in his heart, and evinces by his conduct
that he believes there is no God. 14th November, 1827. PASCHE.

       *       *       *       *      *

COLD WINTER IS COMING.

(For the Mirror.)

  Cold Winter is coming--take care of your toes--
    Gay Zephyr has folded his fan;
  His lances are couch'd in the ice-wind that blows,
    So mail up as warm as you can.

  Cold Winter is coming--he's ready to start
    From his home on the mountains afar;
  He is shrunken and pale--he looks froze to the heart,
    And snow-wreaths embellish his car.

  Cold Winter is coming--Hark! did ye not hear
    The blast which his herald has blown?
  The children of Nature all trembled in fear,
    For to them is his power made known.

  Cold Winter is coming--there breathes not a flower,
    Though sometimes the day may pass fair!
  The soft lute is removed from the lady's lorn bower,
    Lest it coldly be touched by the air.

  Cold Winter is coming--all stript are the groves,
    The passage-bird hastens away;
  To the lovely blue South, like the tourist, he roves,
    And returns like the sunshine in May.

  Cold Winter is coming--he'll breathe on the stream--
    And the bane of his petrific breath
  Will seal up the waters; till, in the moon-beam.
    They lie stirless, as slumber or death!

  Cold Winter is coming, and soon shall we see
    On the panes, by that genius Jack Frost,
  Fine drawings of mountain, stream, tower, an tree--
    Framed and glazed too, without any cost.

  Cold Winter is coming---ye delicate fair,
    Take care when your hyson you sip;--
  Drink it quick, and don't talk, lest he come unaware,
    And turn it to ice on your lip.

  Cold Winter is coming--I charge you again--
    Muffle warm--of the tyrant beware--
  He's so brave, that to strike the young hero he's fain--
    He's so told he'll not favour the fair.

  Cold Winter is coming--I've said so before--
    It seems I've not much else to say;
  Yes, Winter is coming, and God help the poor!
    I wish it was going away,

Nov 5th 1827. C. COLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAUTICAL PHRASES.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--The annexed Definition of Nautical, Names, &c. will not, I dare say, to most of your
readers, be uninteresting. G.W.N.

The Starboard is the right side of the ship, as the lar-board is the left.

The Parrel is a movable band-rope, used to fasten the yard to its respective mast.

Backstays are long ropes, reaching from the right and left sides of the vessel to the mast heads.

Travellers are slight iron rings, encircling the backstays, and are used for hoisting the top-gallant
yards, and confining them to the backstays.

Rolling-tackle is a number of pulleys, engaged to confine the yard to the weather side of the
mast; this tackle is much used in a rough sea.

Booms are masts or yards, lying on board in reserve.

The Courses are the mainsail, foresail, and the mizen.

The Staysail is of a triangular form, running upon the fore-topmast-stay, just above the bowsprit.

Reef-tackles are ropes employed in the operation of reefing. &c.

Clue-lines are used to truss up the clues, or to lower the corners of the largest sails.

The Brake is the handle of the pump, by which it is worked.

Bowlines are ropes for keeping the windward edge of the sail steady.

The Wells are places in the ship's hold for the pumps, &c.

Earings are small lines, by which the uppermost corners of the largest sails are secured to
the yard-arms.

Reefs are spaces by which the principal sails are reduced when the wind is too high, and enlarged
again when its force abates.

Topsails are long and square, of the second degree in magnitude in all great ships.

Haliards are single ropes, by which the sails are hoisted up and lowered at pleasure.

Tally is the operation of hauling aft the sheets, or drawing them in the direction of the ship's
stern.

Towing is the operation of drawing a vessel forward by means of long lines, &c.

Timoneer, from the French timonnier, is a name given, on particular occasions, to the steersman
of a ship.

Bars are large masses of sand or earth, formed by the surge of the sea; they are mostly found
at the entrances of great rivers or havens, and often render navigation extremely dangerous.

The Ox-Eye, so called by seamen, is a remarkable appearance in the heavens, resembling a small
lurid speck, and always precedes two particular storms, known only between the tropics.

Azimuth-Compass is an instrument employed for ascertaining the sun's magnetical azimuth.

Studding-Sails are long and narrow, and are used only in fine weather, on the outside of the
large square sails.

Stay-Sails have three corners, and are hoisted up on the stays when the wind crosses the ship.

Broaching-to is a sudden movement in navigation, when the ship, while scudding before the wind,
accidentally turns her side to windward.

Wales are a number of strong and thick planks, covering the lower part of the ship's side.

Scud is a name given by sailors to the lowest clouds; which are mostly observed in squally weather.

The Sheets are ropes used for extending the clues, or lowering the corners of the sails.

Brails are ropes used to truss up a sail to a mast or yard.

Reef-Bands are long pieces of rough canvass sewed across the sails to give them additional
strength.

Scudding is a term applied to a vessel when carried furiously along by a tempest.

Leeward implies when the ship lies on that side to which the wind is directed.

