The obscene book was removed from circulation. In other words, the symptom of the disease was
hidden. But was anything done to eliminate the disease, or to remove its cause? On the contrary,
everything possible was done to perpetuate the disease; everything possible was done to prevent
anyone who had suffered from the disease or who knew anything about it, from imparting his
knowledge. For the disease was ignorance; ignorance of self, of life, of sex. And not only
does Comstockery strive to perpetuate ignorance, not only does it glorify ignorance and miscall
it innocence, not only does it elevate it into a virtue, but it has legislated knowledge into
a crime. The offence of the book it had eliminated was not its vicious misinformation, but
its use of sex as a subject. The postoffice has said that any discussion of sex is obscene
and the courts have put one noble old man of over seventy years into prison at hard labor,
and have punished an aged woman physician in some other way because they sought, in all purity
and right-mindedness, to help their brothers and sisters to a knowledge of themselves.

It is true that, at last, there is a rift within the lute; or would it better be called a leak
in the sewer? Comstockery has not quite the standing that it once had. When it was made generally
known that a postoffice official had said that any discussion of sex was obscene, there followed
such a rattling fire of reprobation and condemnation even from many startled conventionalists,
who could support the thing but could not look it in the face, that the maker of the now historic
phrase was moved to deny that he had said it officially. In fact, there are many signs, most
of them still small, on the distant horizon, it is true, which indicate that we are becoming
alive to the fact that it is imperative that sex should be discussed.

This is an age of radical ideas. Radicalism in politics, in religion, in ethics is ripe; which
is only another way of saying that we are beginning to dare to think. Probably the most apparent,
if not the most significant, sign of the general radicalism, is the tendency to exalt the science
of life to an even higher plane than that which it occupied in the days of Hellenic supremacy.
We are beginning to understand that right living is a purely physical matter, and that morals
are only laws of health; and if there are yet but few who dare take so radical a view of morals
as that, still there are quite as few who will not admit freely that nothing can be immoral
which is beneficial to the human body.

Of course, it is unthinkable, even from the point of view of the most conventional of orthodox
Christians, that there can be any immorality in sex, for sex in itself is absolutely a work
of the deity, hence of the highest morality, if it can have any such attribute at all. As well
might one give digestion a moral quality. Morality is surely a matter of personal conduct.
One may say that it is immoral to eat so much as to injure one's health, but it is not a matter
of record that any considerable body of persons declares the stomach to be an immoral organ,
or the digestive function to be an immoral one, or any discussion of digestion immoral. Then
why sex or sex functions?

It is true that Comstockery has us to designate our legs, limbs, though not at the present
time with any legal penalty for not doing so; it prescribes the word stomach for polite usage
in describing that part of the body which lies subjacent to the actual stomach, anterior to
the spinal column and posterior to the abdominal wall; it forbids a visible bifurcated garment
for the "limbs" of a female; and it does a variety of other absurd things, all going to show
that in some singular fashion it has confounded acts with things; as one might call all knives
immoral because a few knives had been used to do murder with.

By what extraordinary process does Comstockery conjure decency into the stomach and indecency
into the bowels? But how rejoiced we should be that it is no worse than indecent to speak of
the receptacle of the intestines by its common name. By some hocus pocus of which Comstockery
is easily capable it might have been obscene to speak of the digestive process or of any of
the digestive organs. We might easily have been taught that digestion was a moral matter, not
to be talked of, not to be studied; ignorance of which was a virtue, knowledge of which a crime.
And then, under those conditions, if a person, possessed of a little knowledge such as might
have crept stealthily down the ages, were in a fine humanitarian spirit to dare to publish
some of the things he knew in order to help dyspeptic humanity, he would have been robbed of
his worldly goods and clapped forthwith into jail. Fancy that under such circumstances a man
who had lived his three score and ten years and had learned something from his own suffering
and experience, something from the secretly imparted information of others, might not say a
word to help his fellows. Is it not too absurd to contemplate without both tears and laughter
that that man who should plead with his fellow men to abstain from habitually living on butter
cakes and coffee, should be charged with obscenity and imprisoned in consequence? And imagine
some sapient postoffice official solemnly declaring that any discussion of digestion is obscene!
Consider how the land would be flooded with literature describing the pleasures of gluttony
and depicting impossible gastronomic feats! Consider, too, trying to cure indigestion and to
suppress the orgies of our children in pies, crullers, fritters and butter cakes by the naïve
device of forbidding all knowledge of the digestive function and making the utterance of the
name of a digestive organ an obscenity punishable by fine and imprisonment!

Digestion is a matter to be considered in the light of hygiene. So is sex. Digestion is not
in itself either moral or immoral. Neither is sex. But there is the most hideous immorality
in the ascription of obscenity to sex, sex function or any phase of sex life. And this is the
crime of Comstockery. It has reared an awful idol to which have been sacrificed the best of
our youth; with hypocrisy the high-priest, ignorance the creed, and pruriency the detective.

Comstockery strikes at the very root of life. It forbids that we shall know how to live our
best; it forbids that we shall know how to save our children from the perils we have so discreditably
passed through; it raises barriers of false modesty between parents and children by branding
the very science of life an obscenity. Owing to the shocking suggestions of Comstockery all
that relates to life is degraded into the gutter; and that which would be pure and sweet and
wholesome in the home or in the school, becomes filthy Comstockery on the snickering lips of
ignorant play-fellows.

The wonder is that we have endured the nasty thing for so long a time. We have been boys and
girls and have gone from our parents to our school-mates and play-fellows for the information
to which we are entitled by very reason of living, but, more than all; because of our need
to live right. We all know the hideous untruths we were told because of Comstockery; we all
know how much we had to unlearn, and how great the suffering mentally, how great the deterioration
physically in the unlearning; we all know our unfitness for parentage at the time we entered
it; every man knows how the brothels kept open doors and beckoning inmates by the thousand
for his undoing. And yet we endure it--Comstockery.

It is such a subtly pervasive thing, this Comstockery, it steals in wherever it can and puts
the taint of its own uncleanness on whatever it touches. Clothing becomes a matter of Comstockery.
We do not always see it, but such is the fact. We do not wear clothing for convenience, but
to cover our nakedness. You see nakedness is obscene. Not in itself, but only in man. You may
take a naked dog on the street, but not a naked human being. The summer previous to the last
one was a very hot one in New York, and a poor wretch of a boy of fourteen years of age, being
on the top floor of a crowded tenement was half crazed by the heat and the lack of fresh air,
of which there was absolutely none in the closet in which he was trying to sleep. He ran down
into the street nude at two o'clock in the morning in the hope of finding a surcease of his
distress. A policeman saw him, remembered his blushing Comstockery in time and haled the poor
lad off to a cell. The next morning the magistrate in tones of grimmest virtue sent the boy
to the reformatory, remarking with appropriate jest that the young scoundrel might have seven
years in which to learn to keep his clothes on.

Theodore Roosevelt, who is at once the greatest President and the wisest man of whom we have
any record, tells us that we must breed more children. But how shall our women bear more children,
or presently bear any, if they are to be continually made more and more unfit for motherhood
by the pitfalls into which their ignorance of the science of life leads them? Because of the
Comstockery which has its felt grip upon our throats we may not instruct the little child in
the way of health; or if it be said that there is nothing to prevent the parent from instructing
the child, yet it must be insisted that the parent has no means of knowing since Comstockery
prescribes ignorance as the only way to innocence; and innocent our girls must be at any cost.
Besides, the average mother, if she will but admit the truth, is ashamed to talk with her daughter
about Comstockery things. We all know that this is so. Our parents treated us in such fashion,
and we are so treating our children.

The knowledge which each generation acquires at the cost of health, yes, at the cost of life
even, dies with it, for the most part. The one thing we most need to know is how to live; the
science of life begins with sex, goes on with sex, ends with sex; but sex we may not discuss;
thus we go on in ignorance of life. Shall it remain so? Is Comstockery to be our best expression
of the most vital matter of existence? Life, sex, should be and is when we recognize it, the
purest, sweetest, simplest subject of discussion; and we make of it a filthy jest. We will
not tell our sons the things we have learned through bitter experience, because we cannot bear
the shame of discussing sex subjects with them, because of the accursed Comstockery that is
within us; but we will go to the club and the bar room, or anywhere behind locked doors in
the select company of our fellows, and there pour out the real essence of our Comstockery in
stories which make a filthy jest of sex. Every man knows this is the truth. Perhaps women,
in their Comstockery, know it too. As has been already said, treat digestion as sex is treated,
and it will be sniggered over behind locked doors in precisely the same way.

Let us rid ourselves of the fatal, prurient restrictions on sex discussion and in a marvellously
short time we shall have a store of sweet knowledge on the subject that will enable us to live
well ourselves and fit us to bring into the world such children as will amaze us with their
health of body and purity of mind. No alteration of the facts of life is necessary, but only
a change of attitude. Why, when Trilby brought the bare foot into prominence, it was gravely
debated whether or not such an indecency should be permitted. It was assumed that a naked foot
was indecent. Why a foot more than a hand? Why any one part of the body more than another?
Comstockery! Comstockery!

DON QUIXOTE AND HAMLET

In Peter Kropotkin's Book: "Russian Literature" (published by McClure, Phillips & Company),
there is a quotation from Turgenieff's works, which shows the Russian poet's genius and psychological
insight in all its wonderful depth. Here it is:

"Don Quixote is imbued with devotion towards his ideal, for which he is ready to suffer all
possible privations, to sacrifice his life; life itself he values only so far as it can serve
for the incarnation of the ideal, for the promotion of truth, of justice on earth.... He lives
for his brothers, for opposing the forces hostile to mankind: the witches, the giants--that
is, the oppressors.... Therefore he is fearless, patient; he is satisfied with the most modest
food, the poorest cloth: he has other things to think of. Humble in his heart, he is great
and daring in his mind.... And who is Hamlet? Analysis, first of all, and egotism, and therefore
no faith. He lives entirely for himself, he is an egotist; but to believe in one' self--even
an egotist cannot do that: we can believe only in something which is outside us and above us....
As he has doubts of everything, Hamlet evidently does not spare himself; his intellect is too
developed to remain satisfied with what he finds in himself; he feels his weakness, but each
self-consciousness is a force where-from results his irony, the opposite of the enthusiasm
of Don Quixote.... Don Quixote, a poor man, almost a beggar, without means and relations, old,
isolated--undertakes to redress all the evils and to protect oppressed strangers over the whole
world. What does it matter to him that his first attempt at freeing the innocent from his oppressor
falls twice as heavy upon the head of the innocent himself?... What does it matter that, thinking
that he has to deal with noxious giants, Don Quixote attacks useful windmills?... Nothing of
the sort can ever happen with Hamlet: how could he, with his perspicacious, refined, sceptical
mind, ever commit such a mistake! No, he will not fight with windmills, he does not believe
in giants ... but he would not have attacked them even if they did exist.... And he does not
believe in evil. Evil and deceit are his inveterate enemies. His scepticism is not indifferentism....
But in negation, as in fire, there is a destructive power, and how to keep it in bounds, how
to tell it where to stop, when that which it must destroy, and that which it must spare are
often inseparably welded together? Here it is that the often-noticed tragical aspect of human
life comes in: for action we require will, and for action we require thought; but thought and
will have parted from each other, and separate every day more and more....

     "And thus the native hue of resolution
     Is sickled o'er by the pale cast of thought...."

ON THE BANKS OF ACHERON

By EDWIN BJORKMAN

The air was still and full of a gray melancholy light, yet the waters of the river boiled angrily
as if touched by a raging tempest. The billows rose foaming above its surface, all white with
the whiteness of fear. When they sank back again, they were black--black as despair that knows
of no hope.

Steep hills mounted abruptly on either side of the river until they touched the sullen, colorless
cloud-banks overhead. Their sides were seamed with numberless paths, running on narrow ledges,
one above the other, from the river's edge to the crest of the hill. Men were moving along
those paths: they swarmed like ants across the hillside, but I could not see whence they were
coming nor whither they were going. All were pushing and jostling and scratching and howling
and fighting. Every one's object seemed to be to raise himself to the path above his own and
to prevent all others from doing the same.

Down at the water's edge, they moved in a solid mass, arms pinned down, shoulder to shoulder
and chest to back. At times a man got an arm out of the press and began to claw the up-turned,
tear-stained faces of his neighbors in wild endeavors to lift his whole body. But soon his
madness subsided, the writhing arm sank back, and the man vanished out of sight. The mass once
more moved stolidly, solidly onward. Once in a great while its surface of heads would begin
to boil like the waters of the river near by, and a man would be spouted into the air, landing
on one of the paths above. Then each face would be turned toward him for a breathless moment,
at the end of which the mass glided slowly onward as before.

The crush on the paths higher up on the hillside was not so great, but the fighting of man
against man was incessant and bitter. I could see them clambering up the steep sides of the
ledges, with bleeding nails, distorted features and locked teeth. Waving arms and clutching
fingers pursued them from below; ironshod heels trampled them from above. Ninety-nine out of
the hundred ended their struggles with a fall, and in their rapid descent they swept others
with them. But rising or falling, they all pushed onward, onward--from nowhere to nowhere,
as it seemed to me. I watched them for hours, for days, for years--always the same wandering,
the same scrambling, the same tumbling, without apparent purpose or result. Then my blood rose
hotly to my heart and head. A scarlet mist floated before my eyes and my soul swelled within
me almost unto bursting.

"Why?" I cried, and the word rolled back and forth between the hillsides until its last echo
was swallowed by the murmur that hovered over the wrathful river. The strugglers on the hillside
paths, each and all, turned toward me. On every face I read astonishment.

"Why?" I yelled at them again, and the sound of my voice lingered above the waters like a distant
thunder. Gradually the expression on all those staring faces changed from wonder to scorn.
A man on one of the paths near the crest of the hill laughed aloud. Two more joined him. It
became contagious and spread like wildfire. All those millions were laughing into my face,
laughing like demons rather than men.

My frown only increased the mirth of that grinning multitude. I shook my clenched, up-stretched
fists against them. And when at last their ghastly merriment ceased, I raised my voice once
more in defiance.

"Why?"

As when on a bleak winter day the black snow clouds suddenly begin to darken the sky, so hatred
and rage spread over their faces. Crooked, bony fingers were pointed at me. Men leaned recklessly
from their narrow ledges to shout abuse at me. Stones and mud were flung at me. A hundred arms
seized me and tossed my body in a wide curve from the hillside out over the river. For one
long minute I struggled to keep myself above the yawning waters. Then I sank. All grew dark
about me. A strange fullness in my chest seemed to rise up toward my head. There was a last
moment of consciousness in which I heard a single word uttered by a ringing, bell-like voice
that came from within myself. That last word was:

"Why?"

The British Elections and the Labor Parties

By H. KELLY

"We are a left-center country; we live by compromise."

The above statement was made by an aged member of Parliament to Kropotkin some years ago, and
the present elections testify strongly to the truth of that remark. For a country which produced
the father of political economy, Adam Smith--for Scotland is included in our generalization--Robert
Owen, the father of libertarian Socialism, which in the forties stood almost at the head of
the Socialist movement in Europe, which has been the scene of so many Socialist and workingmen's
congresses and has furnished a refuge for so many distinguished exiles, it is passing strange,
to say the least, that up to the present no one has been elected to Parliament on a purely
Socialist platform; this notwithstanding that, in the elections just past, of forty-three labor
members elected nineteen are members of the Independent Labor Party and one of the Social Democratic
Federation. John Burns was elected to Parliament just after the great Dock Strike on his trade-union
record and has been elected regularly ever since, although he has long since ceased to be a
Socialist. Keir Hardie was elected for West Ham as a Radical, and when he stood for re-election
as a Socialist was defeated. In 1900 he was elected again as member for Merthyr Tydfill, a
radical mining district in Wales, on a trade union-Socialist platform, and undoubtedly received
a large number of votes on the ground of having been a miner once himself. R. B. Cunningham-Graham,
probably the ablest Socialist who has yet sat in the British Parliament, was elected as a Radical,
announcing himself a Socialist some time after his election.

The British workman, true to his traditions, has consistently demanded compromise before electing
anyone, and where that has been refused, the candidates have gone down to defeat. Hyndman,
founder of the Social Democratic Federation and the ablest Socialist in public life; Quelch,
editor of "Justice," the official organ of that party, for more than a decade, and Geo. Lansbury,
one of their oldest, ablest and most respected members, refused to compromise in the recent
election, and paid the inevitable penalty. Hyndman's case was really remarkable, he is a man
of exceptional ability, has devoted himself for twenty-five years to the Socialist and labor
movement, was endorsed by all the labor bodies of Burnley, and Mr. Phillip Stanhope, recently
created a lord and one of the ablest Liberal politicians in the country, did him the honor
of declining to stand against him. Still he was defeated--while politicians of an inferior
stamp like John Burns, Keir Hardie, J. R. MacDonald and two score of others were triumphantly
elected on a labor platform. Therein lies the secret, they were elected on a "Labor Platform!"
Eight-hour day, trade-union rate of wages, better factory legislation, secular education, annual
sessions of Parliament, paid members, one man, one vote, etc. All excellent things in themselves,
but not Socialism and in no way disputing the right of one man to exploit another and leaving
untouched the basic principle of Socialism, real Socialism, the right of labor to the fruits
of its toil.

Under conditions such as those described, is it to be wondered at that many Anarchists are
frankly cynical as to the benefits labor will derive from the labor parties? There will be
at least two, that have suddenly forced the gilded doors of the "Mother of Parliaments" and
about which the guilty middle class grew nervous. We know that men like T. Burt, H. Broadhurst,
W. Abraham, F. Madison and a score of others are but nominal labor men not having worked at
their various trades for years and are middle class by training and income, that others like
Keir Hardie, J. R. MacDonald, John Ward and many more are at best labor politicians so steeped
in political bargaining and compromising that the net results to labor from them will be very
small indeed. It is not necessary nor would it be just to question the honesty or well-meaning
of many of the forty-three labor members, to prove that a distinct disappointment awaits those
who elected them. Past history foretells the future clearly enough. We have seen John Burns,
hero of the Dock Strike, who entered Parliament as a Revolutionary Socialist, becoming in a
few short years as docile as a lamb to those above him in power and as autocratic as a Russian
provincial governor to those who needed his assistance, finally enter a Liberal Cabinet with
the "hero of Featherstone," H. H. Asquith, by whose orders striking miners were shot down in
real American fashion, Sir Edward Grey, and other Jingo Imperialists--and the end is not yet.
There are our other friends (?). H. Broadhurst, special favorite of the King; W. Abraham, ex-coal
miner, who so endeared himself to the coal operators of Wales in his capacity as official of
the Miners' Union and Scale Committee that when his daughter was married several years ago
she received a cheque for £100 from one of the aforesaid operators, and others whom space forbids
mentioning. Such is the material of which the labor parties now in the House of Commons is
formed, and it requires a violent stretch of imagination to see any real, lasting benefit can
accrue from the forty-three men now sitting there as representatives of the oppressed masses.
An inability to see this, however, by no means implies a lack of inherent good in the formation
of the Labor Representation Committee and the Miners' Federation, their fraternization with
the Socialists and the forces which impelled that organization and fraternization. It is the
agitation which preceded it, and we hope will continue, and the growing desire on the part
of the workers for a larger share of the product of their toil and a part in the management
of industry that we see hope. The form that movement has taken or the beneficial results from
the efforts of the elected are details. It is scarcely five years since the Labor Representation
Committee sprang into existence, and it says much for the solidarity of labor that over a million
trade unionists, thirteen thousand members of the Independent Labor Party and eight hundred
Fabians could be got together on a political program in so short a time.

For good or ill the British workingman has gone in for political action and will have a try
at that before he listens to the Anarchists. Slow of thought and used to compromise, he is
a stern taskmaker and will exact a rigid account of the stewardship entrusted to those who
sought his suffrage. When the disillusionment comes, as it surely will, real progress may come.
The process of disillusionment does not come with geometrical precision. To some it comes over
night, to others it is a process of years, and to some it is denied altogether. For years the
Anarchists have been scoffed at as impossible dreamers for advocating the General Strike as
the only effective means of overthrowing the present system. The glorious fight of the Russian
people for freedom has changed all this, and we find even Bebel threatening the German Government
with a general strike if they attempt to withdraw the franchise; and Hyndman, who opposed it
for years, has finally admitted its effectiveness. The effect has been felt in Great Britain
in the shape of the unemployed agitations and demonstrations, and although temporarily allayed
by the elections, it will blossom forth again.

If the advent of the Liberal party to power, backed by the Home Rule and Labor parties, causes
an undoing of the harm of the Balfour-Chamberlain government, it will be more than can reasonably
be expected. The trade unions can never be restored to quite the same legal immunity they had
previously. The forty thousand Chinese imported into South Africa to take the places of white
miners will remain even if no more are brought in. The Education Act, passed with the assistance
of the Irish Archbishops and attacking secular education, will be amended and not repealed.
The endowment of the brewers will continue, and my Lords Bass, Burton and the rest will merely
await future opportunities to plunder the British public. In short, little constructive legislation,
even of that mild and tentative character one might expect from a Liberal party, made up of
capitalistic units can be expected after the ten years of corrupt and extravagant rule of this
band of modern pirates.

They who advocate the complete reconstruction of society are under no illusions as to the time
and trouble required to overcome the superstitions of the past. Being imbued, however, with
the belief in what Christians call "the eternal righteousness of their cause," they meet the
future with smiling face; and far from being downcast over the turn of events in Great Britain,
see hope in the formation of the Labor Parties.

AND YOU?

BOLTON HALL

"What would you do," asked the Idealist, "if you were Czar of Russia?"

"I would first abolish monopoly of land, for that is fundamental," said the Reformer, "and
then resign. What would you do?"

"I would first resign, and then teach the people to abolish monopoly of land, the same as now,"
answered the Idealist. "But what would you do, Teacher?"

"I would teach the people from the throne that they were oppressed by their system of monopoly--and
by their Czar."

NATIONAL ATAVISM

BY INTERNATIONALIST

The Jewish circles in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and other cities of America are aroused
over the visit of a spectre called Nationalism, alias Territorialism. Like all spectres, it
is doing a lot of mischief and causing much confusion in the heads of the Jewish population.

The spirit of our ancestor, Abraham, has come to life again. Like Abraham, when Jehovah commanded
him to go in quest of the promised land, the Jewish Nationalists make themselves and others
believe that they long for the moment, when with wife and child and all possessions, they will
migrate to that spot on earth, which will represent the Jewish State, where Jewish traits will
have a chance to develop in idyllic peace.

Natural science calls retrogression of species, which shows signs of a former state already
overcome, atavism. The same term may be applied to the advanced section of the Jewish population,
which has listened to the call of the Nationalists. They have retrogressed from a universal
view of things to a philosophy fenced in by boundary lines; from the glorious conception that
"the world is my country" to the conception of exclusiveness. They have abridged their wide
vision and have made it narrow and superficial.

The Zionism of Max Nordau and his followers never was more than a sentimental sport for the
well-to-do in the ranks of the Jews. The latter-day Nationalists, however, are bent on reaching
those circles of the Jewish race that have so far followed the banner of Internationalism and
Revolution; and this at a moment when revolutionists of all nationalities and races are most
in need of unity and solidarity. Nothing could be more injurious to the Russian revolution,
nothing prove a lack of confidence in its success, so much as the present nationalistic agitation.

The most encouraging and glorious feature of revolutions is that they purify the atmosphere
from the thick, poisonous vapors of prejudices and superstition.

From time immemorial revolutions have been the only hope and refuge of all the oppressed from
national and social yokes. The radical nationalistic elements seem to have forgotten that all
their enthusiasm, their faith and hope in the power of a great social change, now falters before
the question: Will it give us our own territory where we can surround ourselves with walls
and watch-towers? Yes, the very people, who once spoke with a divine fire of the beauty of
the solidarity of all individuals and all peoples, now indulge in the shallow phrases that
the Jew is powerless, that he is nowhere at home, and that he owns no place on earth, where
he can do justice to his nature, and that he must first obtain national rights, like all nations,
ere he can go further.

These lamentations contain more fiction than truth, more sentimentality than logic.

The Poles have their own territory; still this fact does not hinder Russia from brutalizing
Poland or from flogging and killing her children; neither does it hinder the Prussian government
from maltreating her Polish subjects and forcibly obliterating the Polish language. And of
what avail is native territory to the small nations of the Balkans, with Russian, Turkish and
Austrian influences keeping them in a helpless and dependent condition. Various raids and expeditions
by the powerful neighboring states forced on them, have proven what little protection their
territorial independence has given them against brutal coercion. The independent existence
of small peoples has ever served powerful states as a pretext for venomous attacks, pillage
and attempts at annexation. Nothing is left them but to bow before the superior powers, or
to be ever prepared for bitter wars that might, in a measure, temporarily loosen the tyrannical
hold, but never end in a complete overthrow of the powerful enemy.

Switzerland is often cited as an example of a united nation which is able to maintain itself
in peace and neutrality. It might be advisable to consider what circumstances have made this
possible.

It is an indisputable fact that Switzerland acts as the executive agent of European powers,
who consider her a foreign detective bureau which watches over, annoys and persecutes refugees
and the dissatisfied elements.

Italian, Russian and German spies look upon Switzerland as a hunting ground, and the Swiss
police are never so happy, as when they can render constable service to the governments of
surrounding states. It is nothing unusual for the Swiss police to carry out the order of Germany
or Italy to arrest political refugees and forcibly take them across the frontier, where they
are given over into the hands of the German or Italian gendarmes. A very enticing national
independence, is it not?

Is it possible that former revolutionists and enthusiastic fighters for freedom, who are now
in the nationalistic field, should long for similar conditions? Those who refuse to be carried
away by nationalistic phrases and who would rather follow the broad path of Internationalism,
are accused of indifference to and lack of sympathy with the sufferings of the Jewish race.
Rather is it far more likely that those who stand for the establishment of a Jewish nation
show a serious lack of judgment.

Especially the radicals among the Nationalists seem to be altogether lost in the thicket of
phrases. They are ashamed of the label "nationalist" because it stands for so much retrogression,
for so many memories of hatred, of savage wars and wild persecutions, that it is difficult
for one who claims to be advanced and modern to adorn himself with the name. And who does not
wish to appear advanced and modern? Therefore the name of Nationalist is rejected, and the
name of territorialist taken instead, as if that were not the same thing. True, the territorialists
will have nothing to do with an organized Jewish state; they aim for a free commune. But, if
it is certain that small states are subordinated to great powers and merely endured by them,
it is still more certain that free communes within powerful states, built on coercion and land
robbery, have even less chance for a free existence. Such cuckoos' eggs the ruling powers will
not have in their nests. A community, in which exploitation and slavery do not reign, would
have the same effect on these powers, as a red rag to a bull. It would stand an everlasting
reproach, a nagging accusation, which would have to be destroyed as quickly as possible. Or
is the national glory of the Jews to begin after the social revolution?

If we are to throw into the dust heap our hope that humanity will some day reach a height from
which difference of nationality and ancestry will appear but an insignificant speck on earth,
well and good! Then let us be patriots and continue to nurse national characteristics; but
we ought, at least, not to clothe ourselves in the mantel of Faust, in our pretentious sweep
through space. We ought at least declare openly that the life of all peoples is never to be
anything else but an outrageous mixture of stupid patriotism, national vanities, everlasting
antagonism, and a ravenous greed for wealth and supremacy.

Might it not be advisable to consider how the idea of a national unity of the Jews can live
in the face of the deep social abysses that exist between the various ranks within the Jewish race?

It is not at all a mere accident that the Bund, the strongest organization of the Jewish proletariat,
will have nothing to do with the nationalistic agitation. The social and economic motives for
concerted action or separation are of far more vital influence than the national.

The feeling of solidarity of the working-people is bound to prove stronger than the nationalistic
glue. As to the remainder of the adherents of the nationalistic movement, they are recruited
from the ranks of the middle Jewish class.

The Jewish banker, for instance, feels much more drawn to the Christian or Mohammedan banker
than to his Jewish factory worker, or tenement house dweller. Equally so will the Jewish workingman,
conscious of the revolutionizing effect of the daily struggle between labor and money power,
find his brother in a fellow worker, and not in a Jewish banker.

True, the Jewish worker suffers twofold: he is exploited, oppressed and robbed as one of suffering
humanity, and despised, hated, trampled upon, because he is a Jew; but he would look in vain
toward the wealthy Jews for his friends and saviors. The latter have just as great an interest
in the maintenance of a system that stands for wage slavery, social subordination, and the
economic dependence of the great mass of mankind, as the Christian employer and owner of wealth.

The Jewish population of the East Side has little in common with the dweller of a Fifth Avenue
mansion. He has much more in common with the workingmen of other nationalities of the country--he
has sorrows, struggles, indignation and longings for freedom in common with them. His hope
is the social reconstruction of society and not nationalistic scene shifting. His conditions
can be ameliorated only through a union with his fellow sufferers, through human brotherhood,
and not by means of separation and barriers. In his struggles against humiliating demands,
inhuman treatment, economic pressure, he can depend on help from his non-Jewish comrades, and
not on the assistance of Jewish manufacturers and speculators. How then can he be expected
to co-operate with them in the building of a Jewish commonwealth?

Certain it is that the battle which is to bring liberty, peace and well-being to humanity is
of a mental, social, economic nature and not of a nationalistic one. The former brightens and
widens the horizon, the latter stupefies the reasoning faculties, cripples and stifles the
emotions, and sows hatred and strife instead of love and tenderness in the human soul. All
that is big and beautiful in the world has been created by thinkers and artists, whose vision
was far beyond the Lilliputian sphere of Nationalism. Only that which contains the life's pulse
of mankind expands and liberates. That is why every attempt to establish a national art, a
patriotic literature, a life's philosophy with the seal of the government attached thereto
is bound to fall flat and to be insignificant.

It were well and wholesome if all works dealing with national glory and victory, with national
courage and patriotic songs could be used for bonfires. In their place we could have the poems
of Shelley and Whitman, essays of Emerson or Thoreau, the Book of the Bees, by Maeterlink,
the music of Wagner, Beethoven and Tschaikovsky, the wonderful art of Eleanore Duse.

