After an interval of about seventy-five years, during which Protestantism (though suppressed
by the law) contrived to lead a sort of underground life--the Protestants meeting by night,
and sometimes by day, in caves, valleys, moors, woods, old quarries, hollow beds of rivers,
or, as they themselves called it, "in the Desert"--they at length contrived to lift their heads
into the light of day, and then Rabaut St. Etienne stood up in the Constituent Assembly at
Paris, in 1787, and claimed the rights of his Protestant fellow-countrymen--the rights of "2,000,000
useful citizens." Louis XVI. granted them an Edict of Tolerance, about a hundred years after
Louis XIV. had revoked the Edict of Nantes; but the measure proved too late for the King, and
too late for France, which had already been sacrificed to the intolerance of Louis XIV. and
his Jesuit advisers.

After all the sufferings of France--after the cruelties to which her people have been subjected
by the tyranny of her monarchs and the intolerance of her priests,--it is doubtful whether
she has yet learnt wisdom from her experience and trials. France was brought to ruin a century
ago by the Jesuits who held the entire education of the country in their hands. They have again
recovered their ground, and the Congreganistes are now what the Jesuits were before. The Sans-Culottes
of 1793 were the pupils of the priests; so were the Communists of 1871.[1] M. Edgar Quinet
has recently said to his countrymen: "The Jesuitical and clerical spirit which has sneaked
in among you and all your affairs has ruined you. It has corrupted the spring of life; it has
delivered you over to the enemy.... Is this to last for ever? For heaven's sake spare us at
least the sight of a Jesuits' Republic as the coronation of our century."

         [Footnote 1: M. Simiot's speech before the National Assembly,
         16th March, 1873.]

In the midst of these prophecies of ruin, we have M. Veuillot frankly avowing his Ultramontane
policy in the Univers. He is quite willing to go back to the old burnings, hangings, and quarterings,
to prevent any freedom of opinion about religious matters. "For my part," he says, "I frankly
avow my regret not only that John Huss was not burnt sooner, but that Luther was not burnt
too. And I regret further that there has not been some prince sufficiently pious and politic
to have made a crusade against the Protestants."

M. Veuillot is perhaps entitled to some respect for boldly speaking out what he means and thinks.
There are many amongst ourselves who mean the same thing, without having the courage to say
so--who hate the Reformation quite as much as M. Veuillot does, and would like to see the principles
of free examination and individual liberty torn up root and branch.

With respect to the proposed crusade against Protestantism, it will be seen from the following
work what the "pious and politic" Louis XIV. attempted, and how very inefficient his measures
eventually proved in putting down Protestantism, or in extending Catholicism. Louis XIV. found
it easier to make martyrs than apostates; and discovered that hanging, banishment, the galleys,
and the sword were not amongst the most successful of "converters."

The history of the Huguenots during the time of their submergence as an "underground church"
is scarcely treated in the general histories of France. Courtly writers blot them out of history
as Louis XIV. desired to blot them out of France. Most histories of France published in England
contain little notice of them. Those who desire to pursue the subject further, will obtain
abundant information, more particularly from the following works:--

