NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Dr. Latham seems to have adopted as his literary motto the dictum of the poet,

 "The proper study of mankind is man."

We have recently had occasion to call the attention of our readers to his learned and interesting
volume entitled The English Language,--a work which affords proof how deeply he has studied
that remarkable characteristic of our race, which Goldsmith wittily described as being "given
to man to conceal his thoughts." From the language to The Natural History of the Varieties
of Man, the transition is an easy one. The same preliminary studies lead to a mastery of both
divisions of this one great subject: and having so lately seen how successfully Dr. Latham
had pursued his researches into the languages of the earth, we were quite prepared to find,
as we have done, the same learning, acumen, and philosophical spirit of investigation leading
to the same satisfactory results in this kindred, but new field of inquiry. In paying a well-deserved
tribute to his predecessor, Dr. Prichard, whom he describes as "a physiologist among physiologists,
and a scholar among scholars,"--and his work as one "which, by combining the historical, the
philological, and the anatomical methods, should command the attention of the naturalist, as
well as of the scholar,"--Dr. Latham has at once done justice to that distinguished man, and
expressed very neatly the opinion which will be entertained by the great majority of his readers
of his own acquirements, and of the merits of this his last contribution to our stock of knowledge.

The Family Almanack and Educational Register for 1851, with what its editor justly describes
as "its noble list of grammar schools," to a great extent the "offspring of the English Reformation
in the sixteenth {111} century," will be a very acceptable book to every parent who belongs
to the middle classes of society; and who must feel that an endowed school, of which the masters
are bound to produce testimonials of moral and intellectual fitness, presents the best security
for the acquirement by his sons of a solid, well-grounded education.

Messrs. Sotheby and Wilkinson will sell on Monday next, and three following days, the valuable
antiquarian, miscellaneous, and historical library of the late Mr. Amyot. The collection contains
all the best works on English history, an important series of the valuable antiquarian publications
of Tom Hearne; the first, second, and fourth editions of Shakspeare, and an extensive collection
of Shakspeariana; and, in short, forms an admirably selected library of early English history
and literature.

Catalogues Received.--Cole (15. Great Turnstile) List, No. XXXII. of very Cheap Books; W. Pedder
(18. Holywell Street, Strand) Catalogue, Part I. for 1851, of Books Ancient and Modern; J.
Wheldon (4. Paternoster Row) Catalogue of a Valuable Collection of Scientific Books; W. Brown
(130. Old Street, London) Catalogue of English Books on Origin, Rise, Doctrines, Rites, Policy,
&c., of the Church of Rome, &c., the Reformation, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

Odd Volumes.

DRUMMOND'S HISTORY OF NOBLE FAMILIES. Part II. containing Compton and Arden.

BIBLIOTHECA SPENCERIANA, Vol. IV., and Bassano Collection.

Scott's Novels and Romances, last series, 14 vols., 8vo.--The SURGEON'S DAUGHTER. Col. Hewson--True
Blue--Plafery--Cockade--Warming Pans--Memoirs of Elizabeth--Paternoster Tackling--Forged Papal
Bulls--By Hook or by Crook--Crossing Rivers on Skins--Fronte Capillatâ--Tandem D. O. M.--Cranmer's
Descendants--Histoire des Severambes--Singing of Swans--Annoy--Queen Mary's Lament--Touching
for the Evil--The Conquest--Scandal against Elizabeth--Shipster--Queries on Costume--Separation
of Sexes in Church--Cum grano Salis--St. Paul's Clock--Sir John Davis--Aver.

