To Jonas Sparks, Esq. M.P., accordingly, they dedicated their allegiance. A few additional
chaldrons of coals and pairs of blankets, the first frosty winter, bound them his slaves for
ever. Food, physic, and wine, were liberally distributed to the sick and aged whenever they
repaired for relief to the Doric portico; and, with the usual convenient memory of the vulgar,
the Lexleyans soon began to remember of the Altham family only their recent backslidings and
ancient feudal oppressions: while of the Sparkses they chose to know only what was evident
to all eyes--viz., that their hands were open and faces comely.

Into their hearts--more especially into that of Jonas, the head of the house--they examined
not at all; and were ill-qualified to surmise the intensity of bitterness with which, while
contemplating the beauty and richness of his new domain, he beheld the turrets of the old hall
rising like a statue of scorn above the intervening woods. There stood the everlasting monument
of the ancient family--there the emblem of their pride, throwing its shadow, as it were, over
his dawning prosperity! But for that force of contrast thus afforded, he would scarcely have
perceived the newness of all the objects around him--the glare of the fresh freestone--the
nakedness of the whited walls. A few stately old oaks and elms, apparently coeval with the
ancient structure, which a sort of religious feeling had preserved from the axe, that they
might afford congenial shade to the successor of its founder, seemed to impart meanness and
vulgarity to the tapering verdure of his plantations, his modern trees--his pert poplars and
mean larches--his sycamores and planes. Even the incongruity between his solid new paling and
the decayed and sun-bleached wood of the venerable fence to which it adjoined, with its hoary
beard of silvery lichen, was an eyesore to him. Every passer-by might note the limit and circumscription
dividing the new place from the ancient seat of the lords of the manor.

Yet was the landscape of Lexley Park one of almost unequalled beauty. The Dee formed noble
ornament to its sweeping valleys; while the noble acclivities were clothed with promising woods,
opening by rich vistas to a wide extent of champaign country. A fine bridge of granite, erected
by the late Sir Windsor Altham, formed a noble object from the windows of the new mansion;
and but for the evidence of the venerable pile, that stood like an abdicated monarch surveying
its lost dominions, there existed no external demonstration that Lexley Park had not from the
beginning of time formed the estated seat of the Sparkses.

The neighbouring families, if "neighbouring" could be called certain of the nobility and gentry
who resided at ten miles' distance, were courteously careful to inspire the new settler with
a belief that they at least had forgotten any antecedent state of things at Lexley; for they
had even reason to congratulate themselves on the change. Jonas had long been strenuously active
in the House of Commons in promoting county improvements. Jonas was useful as a magistrate,
and invaluable as a liberal contributor to the local charities. During the first five years
of his occupancy, he did more for Lexley and its inhabitants than the half-dozen previous baronets
of the House of Altham.

Of the man he had superseded, meanwhile, it was observed that Mr Sparks was judiciously careful
to forbear all mention. It might have been supposed that he had purchased the estate of the
Crown or the Court of Chancery, so utterly ignorant did he appear of the age, habits, and whereabout
of his predecessor; and when informed by Sir John Wargrane, one of his wealthy neighbours,
that young Altham was disgracing himself again--that at the public gaming-tables at Toplitz
he had been a loser of thirty thousand pounds--the cunning parvenu listened with an air of
as vague indifference as if he were not waiting with breathless anxiety the gradual dissipation
of the funds, secured to the young spendthrift by the transfer of his estate, to grasp at the
small remaining portion of his property. Unconsciously, when the tale of Sir Laurence's profligacy
met his ear, he clenched his griping hand, as though it already recognized its hold upon the
destined spoil, but not a word did he utter.

Meanwhile, the family of the new squire of Lexley were winning golden opinions on all sides.
"The boys were brave--the girls were fair," the mother virtuous, pious, and unpretending. It
would have been scandalous, indeed, to sneer to shame the modest cheerfulness of such people,
because their ancestors had not fought at the Crusades. By degrees, they assumed an honourable
and even eminent position in the county; and the first time Sir Laurence Altham condescended
to visit the county-palatine, he heard nothing but commendations and admiration of the charming
family at Lexley Park.

"Charming family!--a Jonas Sparks, and charming!" was his supercilious reply. "I rejoice to
find that the fumier I have been forced to fling on my worn-out ancestral estate is fertilizing
its barrenness. The village is probably the better for the change. But, as regards the society,
I must be permitted to mistrust the attractions of the brood of a Congleton manufacturer."

The young baronet, who now, though still entitled to be called young, was disfigured by the
premature defeatures of a vicious life, mistrusted it all the more, when, on visiting the old
hall, he was forced to recognize the improvements effected in the neighbouring property (that
he should be forced to call it "neighbouring!") by the judicious administration of the new
owner. It was impossible to deny that Mr Sparks had doubled its value, while enhancing its
beauties. The low grounds were drained, the high lands planted, the river widened, the forestry
systematically organized. The estate appeared to have attained new strength and vigour when
dissevered from the old manor-house; whose shadow might be supposed to have exercised a baleful
influence on the lands wherever it presided.

But it was not his recognition of this that was likely to animate the esteem of Sir Laurence
Altham for Mr Jonas Sparks. On the contrary, he felt every accession of value to the Lexley
property as so much subtracted from his belongings; and his detestation of the upstarts, whose
fine mansion was perceptible from his lordly towers--like a blot upon the fairness of the landscape--increased
with the increase of their prosperity.

Without having expected to take delight in a sojourn at Lexley Hall--a spot where he had only
resided for a few weeks now and then, from the period of his early boyhood--he was not prepared
for the excess of irritation that arose in his heart on witnessing the total estrangement of
the retainers of his family. For the mortification of seeing a fine new house, with gorgeous
furniture, and a pompous establishment, he came armed to the teeth. But no presentiments had
forewarned him, that at Lexley the living Althams were already as much forgotten as those who
were sleeping in the family vault. The sudden glow that pervaded his whole frame when he chanced
to encounter on the highroad the rich equipage of the Sparkses; or the imprecation that burst
from his lips, when, on going to the window of a morning to examine the state of the weather
for the day, the first objects that struck him was the fair mansion in the plain below, laughing
as it were in the sunshine, the deer grouped under its fine old trees, and the river rippling
past its lawns as if delighting in their verdure----Yes! there was decided animosity betwixt
the hill and the valley.

Every successive season served to quicken the pulses of this growing hatred. Whether on the
spot or at a distance, a thousand aggravations sprang up betwixt the parties: disputes between
gamekeepers, quarrels between labourers, encroachments by tenants. Every thing and nothing
was made the groundwork of ill-will. To Sir Laurence Altham's embittered feelings, the very
rooks of Lexley Park seemed evermore to infringe upon the privileges of the rookery at Lexley
Hall; and when, in the parish church, the new squire (or rather his workmen, for he was absent
at the time attending his duties in Parliament) inadvertently broke off the foot of a marble
cherub, weeping its alabaster tears, at the angle of a monument to the memory of a certain
Sir Wilfred Altham, of the time of James II., in raising the woodwork of a pew occupied by
Mr Sparks's family, the rage of Sir Laurence was so excessive as to be almost deserving of
a strait-waistcoat.

The enmity of the baronet was all the more painful to himself that he felt it to be harmless
against its object. In every way, Lexley Park had the best of it. Jonas Sparks was not only
rich in a noble income, but in a charming wife and promising family. Every thing prospered
with him; and, as to mere inferiority of precedence, it was well known that he had refused
a baronetcy; and many people even surmised that, so soon as he was able to purchase another
borough, and give a seat in Parliament to his second son, as well as resign his own to the
eldest, he would be promoted to the Upper House.

The only means of vengeance, therefore, possessed by the vindictive man whose follies and vices
had been the means of creating this perpetual scourge to his pride, was withholding from him
the purchase of the remaining lands indispensable to the completion of his estate, more especially
as regarded the water-courses, which, at Lexley Park, were commanded by the sluices of the
higher grounds of the Hall; and mighty was the oath sworn by Sir Laurence, that come what might,
however great his exigencies or threatening his poverty, nothing should induce him to dispose
of another acre to Jonas Sparks. He was even at the trouble of executing a will, in order to
introduce a clause imposing the same reservation upon the man to whom he devised his small
remaining property--the heir-at-law, to whom, had he died intestate, it would have descended
without conditions.

"The Congleton shopkeepers," muttered he, (whenever, in his solitary evening rides, he caught
sight of the rich plate-glass windows of the new mansion, burnished by the setting sun,) "shall
never, never lord it under the roof of my forefathers! Wherever else he may set his plebeian
foot, Lexley Hall shall be sacred. Rather see the old place burned to the ground--rather set
fire to it with my own hands--than conceive that, when I am in my grave, it could possibly
be subjected to the rule of such a barbarian!"

For it had reached the ears of Sir Laurence--of course, with all the exaggeration derived from
passing through the medium of village gossip--that a thousand local legends concerning the
venerable mansion, sanctified by their antiquity in the ears of the family, afforded a fertile
source of jesting to Jonas Sparks. The Hall abounded in concealed staircases and iron hiding-places,
connected with a variety of marvellous traditions of the civil wars; besides a walled-up suite
of chambers, haunted, as becomes a walled-up suite of chambers; and justice-rooms and tapestried-rooms,
to which the long abandonment of the house, and the heated imaginations of the few menials
left in charge of its desolate vastness, attributed romances likely enough to have provoked
the laughter of a matter-of-fact man like the owner of Lexley Park. But neither Sir Laurence
nor his old servants were likely to forgive this insult offered to the family legends of a
house which had little else left to boast of. Even the neighbouring families were displeased
to hear them derided; and my grandfather never liked to hear a joke on the subject of the coach-and-four
which was said to have driven into the court-yard of the Hall on the eve of the execution of
the rebel lords in 1745, having four headless inmates, who were duly welcomed as guests by
old Sir Robert Altham. Nay, as a child, I had so often thrilled on my nurse's knees during
the relation of this spectral visitation, that I own I felt indignant if any one presumed to
laugh at a tale which had made me quake for fear.

Among those who were known to resent the familiar tone in which Mr Sparks had been heard to
criticise the pomps and vanities exhibited at Lexley Hall by the Althams of the olden time,
was a certain General Stanley, who, inhabiting a fine seat of his own at about ten miles' distance,
was fond of bringing over his visitors to visit the old Hall, as an interesting specimen of
county antiquity. He knew the peculiarities of the place, and could repeat the traditions connected
with the hiding-places better than the housekeeper herself; and I have heard her say it was
a pleasure to hear him relating these historical anecdotes with all the fire of an old soldier,
and see his venerable grey hair blown about as he stood with his party on the battlements,
pointing out to the ladies the fine range of territory formerly belonging to the Althams. The
old lady protested that the general was nearly as much grieved as herself to behold the old
mansion so shorn of its beams; and certain it is, that once when, on visiting the hall after
Sir Laurence had been some years an absentee, he found the grass growing among the disjointed
stones of the cloisters and justice-hall, he made a handsome present to one of the housekeeper's
nephews, on condition of his keeping the purlieus of the venerable mansion free from such disgraceful
evidences of neglect.

All this eventually reached the ears of the baronet; but instead of making him angry, as might
have been expected, from one so tetchy and susceptible, he never encountered General Stanley,
either in town or country, without demonstrations of respect. Though too reserved and morose
for conversation, Sir Laurence was observed to take off his hat to him with a respect he was
never seen to show towards the king or queen.

About this time I began to take personal interest in the affairs of the neighbourhood, though
my own were now of a nature to engross my attention. By my grandfather's death, I had recently
come into the enjoyment of the small inheritance which has sufficed to the happiness of my
life; and, renouncing the profession for which I was educated, settled myself permanently at
Lexley.

Well do I remember the melancholy face with which the good old rector, the very first evening
we spent together, related to me in confidence that he had three years' dues in arrear to him
from Lexley Hall; but that so wretched was said to be the state of Sir Laurence's embarrassments,
that, for more than a year, his dread of arrest had kept him a close prisoner in his house
in London.

"We have not seen him here these six years!" observed Dr Whittingham; "and I doubt whether
he will ever again set foot in the county. Since an execution was put into the Hall, he has
never crossed the threshold, and I suspect never will. Far better were he to dispose of the
property at once! Dismembered as it is, what pleasure can it afford him? And, since he is unlikely
to marry and have heirs, there is less call upon him to retain this remaining relic of family
pride; yet I am assured--nay, have good reason to know, that he has refused a very liberal
offer on the part of Mr Sparks. Malicious people do say, by the way, that it was by the advice
of Sparks's favourite attorneys the execution was enforced, and that no means have been left
unattempted to disgust him with the place. Yet he is firm, you see, and persists in disappointing
his creditors, and depriving himself of the comforts of life, merely in order that he may die,
as his fathers did before him--the lord of Lexley Hall!"

"I don't wonder!" said I, with the dawning sentiments of a landed proprietor--"'Tis a splendid
old house, even in its present state of degradation; and, by Jove! I honour his pertinacity."

Thus put upon the scent, I sometimes fancied I could detect wistful looks on the part of my
prosperous neighbour of the Park, when, in the course of Dr Whittingham's somewhat lengthy
sermons, he directed his eyes towards the carved old Gothic tribune, containing the family-pew
of the Althams, in the parish church; and, whenever I happened to encounter him in the neighbourhood
of the Hall, his face was so pointedly averted from the house, as if the mere object were an
offence. I could not but wonder at his vexation; being satisfied in my own mind, that sooner
or later the remaining heritage of the spendthrift must fall to his share.

Judge, therefore, of my surprise, when one fine morning, as I sauntered into the village, I
found the whole population gathered in groups on the little market-place, and discovered from
the incoherent exclamations of the crowd, that "the new proprietor of the Hall had just driven
through in a chaise-and-four!"

Yes--"the new proprietor!" The place was sold! The good doctor's prediction was verified. Sir
Laurence was never more to return to Lexley Hall!

The satisfaction of the villagers almost equalled their surprise on finding that General Stanley
was their new landlord. It suited them much better that there should be two families settled
on the property than one; and as it was pretty generally reported, that, in the event of Sparks
becoming the purchaser, he intended to demolish the old house, and reconsolidate the estate
around his own more commodious mansion, they were right glad to find it rescued from such a
sentence--General Stanley, who was the father of a family, would probably settle the hall on
one of his daughters, after placing it in the state of repair so much needed.

When the chaise-and-four returned, therefore, a few hours afterwards, through the village,
the General was loudly cheered by his subjects. His partiality for the place was so well known
at Lexley, that already these people seemed to behold in him the guardian of a monument so
long the object of their pride.

For my own part, nothing surprised me so much in the business as that Sparks should have allowed
the purchase to slip through his fingers. It was worth thrice as much to him as to any body
else. It was the keystone of his property. It was the one thing needful to render Lexley Park
the most perfect seat in the county. But I was not slow in learning (for every thing transpires
in a small country neighbourhood) that whatever my surprise on finding that the old Hall had
changed its master, that of Sparks was far more overwhelming; that he was literally frantic
on finding himself frustrated in expectations which formed the leading interest of his declining
years. For the progress of time which had made me a man and a landed proprietor, had converted
the stout active squire into an infirm old man; and it was his absorbing wish to die sole owner
of the whole property to which the baronets of the Altham family were born.

