In the case of Saturn, the cloud bands are somewhat less visible than on Jupiter, but there
is reason to suppose in this, as in the last-named planet, that we do not behold the more solid
surface of the sphere, but see only a cloud wrap, which is probably due rather to the heat
of the sphere itself than to that which comes to it from the sun. At the distance of Saturn
from the centre of the solar system a given area of surface receives less than one ninetieth
of the sun's heat as compared with the earth; therefore we can not conceive that any density
of the atmosphere whatever would suffice to hold in enough temperature to produce ordinary
clouds. Moreover, from time to time bright spots appear on the surface of the planet, which
must be due to some form of eruptions from its interior.

Beyond Saturn the two planets Uranus and Neptune, which occupy the outer part of the solar
system, are so remote that even our best telescopes discern little more than their presence,
and the fact that they have attendant moons.

From the point of view of astronomical science, the outermost planet Neptune, of peculiar interest
for the reason that it was, as we may say, discovered by computation. Astronomers had for many
years remarked the fact that the next inner planetary sphere exhibited peculiarities in its
orbit which could only be accounted for on the supposition that it was subjected to the attraction
of another wandering body which had escaped observation. By skilful computation the place in
the heavens in which this disturbing element lay was so accurately determined that when the
telescope was turned to the given field a brief study revealed the planet. Nothing else in
the history of the science of astronomy, unless it be the computation of eclipses, so clearly
and popularly shows the accuracy of the methods by which the work of that science may be done.

As we shall see hereafter, in the chapters which are devoted to terrestrial phenomena, the
physical condition of the sun determines the course of all the more important events which
take place on the surface of the earth. It is therefore fit that in this preliminary study
of the celestial bodies, which is especially designed to make the earth more interpretable
to us, we should give a somewhat special attention to what is known under the title of "Solar
Physics."

The reader has already been told that the sun is one of many million similar bodies which exist
in space, and, furthermore, that these aggregations of matter have been developed from an original
nebulous condition. The facts indicate that the natural history of the sun, as well as that
of its attendant spheres, exhibits three momentous stages: First, that of vapour; second, that
of igneous fluidity; third, that in which the sphere is so far congealed that it becomes dark.
Neither of these states is sharply separated from the other; a mass may be partly nebulous
and partly fluid; even when it has been converted into fluid, or possibly into the solid state,
it may still retain on the exterior some share of its original vaporous condition. In our sun
the concentration has long since passed beyond the limits of the nebulous state; the last of
the successively developed rings has broken, and has formed itself into the smallest of the
planets, which by its distance from the sun seems to indicate that the process of division
by rings long ago attained in our solar system its end, the remainder of its nebulous material
concentrating on its centre without sign of any remaining tendency to produce these planet-making
circles.

                   THE CONSTITUTION OF THE SUN.

Before the use of the telescope in astronomical work, which was begun by the illustrious Galileo
in 1608, astronomers were unable to approach the problem of the structure of the sun. They
could discern no more than can be seen by any one who looks at the great sphere through a bit
of smoked glass, as we know this reveals a disklike body of very uniform appearance. The only
variation in this simple aspect occurs at the time of a total eclipse, when for a minute or
two the moon hides the whole body of the sun. On such occasions even the unaided eye can see
that there is about the sphere a broad, rather bright field, of an aspect like a very thin
cloud or fog, which rises in streamer like projections at points to a quarter of a million
miles or more above the surface of the sphere. The appearance of this shining field, which
is called the corona, reminds one of the aurora which glows in the region about either pole
of the earth.

One of the first results of the invention of the telescope was the revelation of the curious
dark objects on the sun's disk, known by the name of spots from the time of their discovery,
or, at least, from the time when it was clearly perceived that they were not planets, but really
on the solar body. The interest in the constitution of the sphere has increased during the
last fifty years. This interest has rapidly grown until at the present time a vast body of
learning has been gathered for the solution of the many problems concerning the centre of our
system. As yet there is great divergence in the views of astronomers as to the interpretation
of their observations, but certain points of great general interest have been tolerably well
determined. These may be briefly set forth by an account of what would meet the eye if an observer
were able to pass from the surface of the earth to the central part of the sun.

In passing from the earth to a point about a quarter of a million miles from the sun's surface--a
distance about that of the moon from our sphere--the observer would traverse the uniformly
empty spaces of the heavens, where, but for the rare chance of a passing meteorite or comet,
there would be nothing that we term matter. Arriving at a point some two or three hundred thousand
miles from the body of the sun, he would enter the realm of the corona; here he would find
scattered particles of matter, the bits so far apart that there would perhaps be not more than
one or two in the cubic mile; yet, as they would glow intensely in the central light, they
would be sufficient to give the illumination which is visible in an eclipse. These particles
are most likely driven up from the sun by some electrical action, and are constantly in motion,
much as are the streamers of the aurora.

Below the corona and sharply separated from it the observer finds another body of very dense
vapour, which is termed the chromosphere, and which has been regarded as the atmosphere of
the sun. This layer is probably several thousand miles thick. From the manner in which it moves,
in the way the air of our own planet does in great storms, it is not easy to believe that it
is a fluid, yet its sharply defined upper surface leads us to suppose that it can not well
be a mere mass of vapour. The spectroscope shows us that this chromosphere contains in the
state of vapour a number of metallic substances, such as iron and magnesium. To an observer
who could behold this envelope of the sun from the distance at which we see the moon, the spectacle
would be more magnificent than the imagination, guided by the sight of all the relatively trifling
fractures of our earth, can possibly conceive. From the surface of the fiery sea vast uprushes
of heated matter rise to the height of two or three hundred thousand miles, and then fall back
upon its surface. These jets of heated matter have the aspect of flames, but they would not
be such in fact, for the materials are not burning, but merely kept at a high temperature by
the heat of the great sphere beneath. They spring up with such energy that they at times move
with a speed of one hundred and fifty miles a second, or at a rate which is attained by no
other matter in the visible universe, except that strange, wandering star known to astronomers
as "Grombridge, 1830," which is traversing the firmament with a speed of not less than two
hundred miles a second.

Below the chromosphere is the photosphere, the lower envelope of the sun, if it be not indeed
the body of the sphere itself; from this comes the light and heat of the mass. This, too, can
not well be a firm-set mass, for the reason that the spots appear to form in and move over
it. It may be regarded as an extremely dense mass of gas, so weighed down by the vast attraction
of the great sphere below it that it is in effect a fluid. The near-at-hand observer would
doubtless find this photosphere, as it appears in the telescope, to be sharply separated from
the thinner and more vaporous envelopes--the chromosphere and the corona--which are, indeed,
so thin that they are invisible even with the telescope, except when the full blaze of the
sun is cut off in a total eclipse. The fact that the photosphere, except when broken by the
so-called spots, lies like a great smooth sea, with no parts which lie above the general line,
shows that it has a very different structure from the envelope which lies upon it. If they
were both vaporous, there would be a gradation between them.

On the surface of the photosphere, almost altogether within thirty degrees of the equator of
the sun, a field corresponding approximately to the tropical belt of the earth, there appear
from time to time the curious disturbances which are termed spots. These appear to be uprushes
of matter in the gaseous state, the upward movement being upon the margins of the field and
a downward motion taking place in the middle of the irregular opening, which is darkened in
its central part, thus giving it, when seen by an ordinary telescope, the aspect of a black
patch on the glowing surface. These spots, which are from some hundred to some thousand miles
in diameter, may endure for months before they fade away. It is clear that they are most abundant
at intervals of about eleven years, the last period of abundance being in 1893. The next to
come may thus be expected in 1904. In the times of least spotting more than half the days of
a year may pass without the surface of the photosphere being broken, while in periods of plenty
no day in the year is likely to fail to show them.

It is doubtful if the closest seeing would reveal the cause of the solar spots. The studies
of the physicists who have devoted the most skill to the matter show little more than that
they are tumults in the photosphere, attended by an uprush of vapours, in which iron and other
metals exist; but whether these movements are due to outbreaks from the deeper parts of the
sun or to some action like the whirling storms of the earth's atmosphere is uncertain. It is
also uncertain what effect these convulsions of the sun have on the amount of the heat and
light which is poured forth from the orb. The common opinion that the sun-spot years are the
hottest is not yet fully verified.

Below the photosphere lies the vast unknown mass of the unseen solar realm. It was at one time
supposed that the dark colour of the spots was due to the fact that the photosphere was broken
through in those spaces, and that we looked down through them upon the surface of the slightly
illuminated central part of the sphere. This view is untenable, and in its place we have to
assume that for the eight hundred and sixty thousand miles of its diameter the sun is composed
of matter such as is found in our earth, but throughout in a state of heat which vastly exceeds
that known on or in our planet. Owing to its heat, this matter is possibly not in either the
solid or the fluid state, but in that of very compressed gases, which are kept from becoming
solid or even fluid by the very high temperature which exists in them. This view is apparently
supported by the fact that, while the pressure upon its matter is twenty-seven times greater
in the sun than it is in the earth, the weight of the whole mass is less than we should expect
under these conditions.

As for the temperature of the sun, we only know that it is hot enough to turn the metals into
gases in the manner in which this is done in a strong electric arc, but no satisfactory method
of reckoning the scale of this heat has been devised. The probabilities are to the effect that
the heat is to be counted by the tens of thousands of degrees Fahrenheit, and it may amount
to hundreds of thousands; it has, indeed, been reckoned as high as a million degrees. This
vast discharge is not due to any kind of burning action--i.e., to the combustion of substances,
as in a fire. It must be produced by the gradual falling in of the materials, due to the gravitation
of the mass toward its centre, each particle converting its energy of position into heat, as
does the meteorite when it comes into the air.

It is well to close this very imperfect account of the learning which relates to the sun with
a brief tabular statement showing the relative masses of the several bodies of the solar system.
It should be understood that by mass is meant not the bulk of the object, but the actual amount
of matter in it as determined by the gravitative attraction which it exercises on other celestial
bodies. In this test the sun is taken as the measure, and its mass is for convenience reckoned
at 1,000,000,000.

             TABLE OF RELATIVE MASSES OF SUN AND PLANETS.[2]
    +------------------------------------------------------------+
    |  The sun                                    1,000,000,000  |
    |  Mercury                                              200  |
    |  Venus                                              2,353  |
    |  Earth                                              3,060  |
    |  Mars                                                 339  |
    |  Asteroids                                              ?  |
    |  Saturn                                           285,580  |
    |  Jupiter                                          954,305  |
    |  Uranus                                            44,250  |
    |  Neptune                                           51,600  |
    |    Combined mass of the four inner planets          5,952  |
    |    Combined mass of all the planets             1,341,687  |
    +------------------------------------------------------------+

[Footnote 2: See Newcomb's Popular Astronomy, p. 234. Harper Brothers, New York.]

It thus appears that the mass of all the planets is about one seven hundredth that of the sun.

Those who wish to make a close study of celestial geography will do well to procure the interesting
set of diagrams prepared by the late James Freeman Clarke, in which transparencies placed in
a convenient lantern show the grouping of the important stars in each constellation. The advantage
of this arrangement is that the little maps can be consulted at night and in the open air in
a very convenient manner. After the student has learned the position of a dozen of the constellations
visible in the northern hemisphere, he can rapidly advance his knowledge in the admirable method
invented by Dr. Clarke.

Having learned the constellations, the student may well proceed to find the several planets,
and to trace them in their apparent path across the fixed stars. It will be well for him here
to gain if he can the conception that their apparent movement is compounded of their motion
around the sun and that of our own sphere; that it would be very different if our earth stood
still in the heavens. At this stage he may well begin to take in mind the evidence which the
planetary motion supplies that the earth really moves round the sun, and not the sun and planets
round the earth. This discovery was one of the great feats of the human mind; it baffled the
wits of the best men for thousands of years. Therefore the inquirer who works over the evidence
is treading one of the famous paths by which his race climbed the steeps of science.

The student must not expect to find the evidence that the sun is the centre of the solar system
very easy to interpret; and yet any youth of moderate curiosity, and that interest in the world
about him which is the foundation of scientific insight, can see through the matter. He will
best begin his inquiries by getting a clear notion of the fact that the moon goes round the
earth. This is the simplest case of movements of this nature which he can see in the solar
system. Noting that the moon occupies a different place at a given hour in the twenty-four,
but is evidently at all times at about the same distance from the earth, he readily perceives
that it circles about our sphere. This the people knew of old, but they made of it an evidence
that the sun also went around our sphere. Here, then, is the critical point. Why does the sun
not behave in the same manner as the moon? At this stage of his inquiry the student best notes
what takes place in the motions of the planets between the earth and the sun. He observes that
those so-called inferior planets Mercury and Venus are never very far away from the central
body; that they appear to rise up from it, and then to go back to it, and that they have phases
like the moon. Now and then Venus may be observed as a black spot crossing the disk of the
sun. A little consideration will show that on the theory that bodies revolve round each other
in the solar system these movements of the inner planets can only be explained on the supposition
that they at least travel around the great central fire. Now, taking up the outer planets,
we observe that they occasionally appear very bright, and that they are then at a place in
the heavens where we see that they are far from the solar centre. Gradually they move down
toward the sunset and disappear from view. Here, too, the movement, though less clearly so,
is best reconcilable with the idea that these bodies travel in orbits, such as those which
are traversed by the inner planets. The wonder is that with these simple facts before them,
and with ample time to think the matter over, the early astronomers did not learn the great
truth about the solar system--namely, that the sun is the centre about which the planets circled.
Their difficulty lay mainly in the fact that they did not conceive the earth as a sphere, and
even after they attained that conception they believed that our globe was vastly larger than
the planets, or even than the sun. This misconception kept even the thoughtful Greeks, who
knew that the earth was spherical in form, from a clear notion as to the structure of our system.
It was not, indeed, until mathematical astronomy attained a considerable advance, and men began
to measure the distances in the solar system, and until the Newtonian theory of gravitation
was developed, that the planetary orbits and the relation of the various bodies in the solar
system to each other could be perfectly discerned.

Care has been taken in the above statements to give the student indices which may assist him
in working out for himself the evidence which may properly lead a person, even without mathematical
considerations of a formal kind, to construct a theory as to the relation of the planets to
the sun. It is not likely that he can go through all the steps of this argument at once, but
it will be most useful to him to ponder upon the problem, and gradually win his way to a full
understanding of it. With that purpose in mind, he should avoid reading what astronomers have
to say on the matter until he is satisfied that he has done as much as he can with the matter
on his own account. He should, however, state his observations, and as far as possible draw
the results in his note-book in a diagrammatic form. He should endeavour to see if the facts
are reconcilable with any other supposition than that the earth and the other planets move
around the sun. When he has done his task, he will have passed over one of the most difficult
roads which his predecessors had to traverse on their way to an understanding of the heavens.
Even if he fail he will have helped himself to some large understandings.

The student will find it useful to make a map of the heavens, or rather make several representing
their condition at different times in the year. On this plot he should put down only the stars
whose places and names he has learned, but he should plot the position of the planets at different
times. In this way, though at first his efforts will be very awkward, he will soon come to
know the general geography of the heavens.

Although the possession or at least the use of a small astronomical telescope is a great advantage
to a student after he has made a certain advance in his work, such an instrument is not at
all necessary, or, indeed, desirable at the outset of his studies. An ordinary opera-glass,
however, will help him in picking out the stars in the constellations, in identifying the planets,
and in getting a better idea as to the form of the moon's surface--a matter which will be treated
in this work in connection with the structure of the earth.

                            CHAPTER IV.

                             THE EARTH.

In beginning the study of the earth it is important that the student should at once form the
habit of keeping in mind the spherical form of the planet. Many persons, while they may blindly
accept the fact that the earth is a sphere, do not think of it as having that form. Perhaps
the simplest way of securing the correct image of the shape is to imagine how the earth would
appear as seen from the moon. In its full condition the moon is apt to appear as a disk. When
it is new, and also when in its waning stages it is visible in the daytime, the spherical form
is very apparent. Imagining himself on the surface of the moon, the student can well perceive
how the earth would appear as a vast body in the heavens; its eight thousand miles of diameter,
about four times that of the satellite, would give an area sixteen times the size which the
moon presents to us. On this scale the continents and oceans would appear very much more plain
than do the relatively slight irregularities on the lunar surface.

