To check the destruction of wood near London, an Act was passed in 1581 prohibiting its conversion
into fuel for the making of iron within fourteen miles of the Thames, forbidding the erection
of new ironworks within twenty-two miles of London, and restricting the number of works in
Kent, Surrey, and Sussex, beyond the above limits.  Similar enactments were made in future
Parliaments with the same object, which had the effect of checking the trade, and several of
the Sussex ironmasters were under the necessity of removing their works elsewhere. Some of
them migrated to Glamorganshire, in South Wales, because of the abundance of timber as well
as ironstone in that quarter, and there set up their forges, more particularly at Aberdare
and Merthyr Tydvil.  Mr. Llewellin has recently published an interesting account of their proceedings,
with descriptions of their works,[12] remains of which still exist at Llwydcoed, Pontyryns,
and other places in the Aberdare valley.  Among the Sussex masters who settled in Glamorganshire
for the purpose of carrying on the iron manufacture, were Walter Burrell, the friend of John
Ray, the naturalist, one of the Morleys of Glynde in Sussex, the Relfes from Mayfield, and
the Cheneys from Crawley.

Notwithstanding these migrations of enterprising manufacturers, the iron trade of Sussex continued
to exist until the middle of the seventeenth century, when the waste of timber was again urged
upon the attention of Parliament, and the penalties for infringing the statutes seem to have
been more rigorously enforced.  The trade then suffered a more serious check; and during the
civil wars, a heavy blow was given to it by the destruction of the works belonging to all royalists,
which was accomplished by a division of the army under Sir William Waller. Most of the Welsh
ironworks were razed to the ground about the same time, and were not again rebuilt.  And after
the Restoration, in 1674, all the royal ironworks in the Forest of Dean were demolished, leaving
only such to be supplied with ore as were beyond the forest limits; the reason alleged for
this measure being lest the iron manufacture should endanger the supply of timber required
for shipbuilding and other necessary purposes.

From this time the iron manufacture of Sussex, as of England generally, rapidly declined. 
In 1740 there were only fifty-nine furnaces in all England, of which ten were in Sussex; and
in 1788 there were only two. A few years later, and the Sussex iron furnaces were blown out
altogether.  Farnhurst, in western, and Ashburnham, in eastern Sussex, witnessed the total
extinction of the manufacture.  The din of the iron hammer was hushed, the glare of the furnace
faded, the last blast of the bellows was blown, and the district returned to its original rural
solitude.  Some of the furnace-ponds were drained and planted with hops or willows; others
formed beautiful lakes in retired pleasure-grounds; while the remainder were used to drive
flour-mills, as the streams in North Kent, instead of driving fulling-mills, were employed
to work paper-mills.  All that now remains of the old iron-works are the extensive beds of
cinders from which material is occasionally taken to mend the Sussex roads, and the numerous
furnace-ponds, hammer-posts, forges, and cinder places, which mark the seats of the ancient
manufacture.

[1] WILKINS, Leges Sax. 25.

[2] Life of St. Egwin, in Capgrave's Nova Legenda Anglioe.  Alcester was, as its name indicates,
an old Roman settlement (situated on the Icknild Street), where the art of working in iron
was practised from an early period.  It was originally called Alauna, being situated on the
river Alne in Warwickshire.  It is still a seat of the needle manufacture.

[3] The following is an extract of this curious document, which is dated the 26th Dec. 1352:
"Ceste endenture fait entre monsire Richard de Goldesburghe, chivaler, dune part, et Robert
Totte, seignour, dautre tesmoigne qe le dit monsire Richard ad graunte et lesse al dit Robert
deuz Olyveres contenaunz vynt quatre blomes de la feste seynt Piere ad vincula lan du regne
le Roi Edward tierce apres le conqueste vynt sysme, en sun parke de Creskelde, rendant al dit
monsire Richard chesqune semayn quatorzse soutz dargent duraunt les deux Olyvers avaunt dist;
a tenir et avoir al avaunt dit Robert del avaunt dit monsire Richard de la feste seynt Piere
avaunt dist, taunque le bois soit ars du dit parke a la volunte le dit monsire Richard saunz
interrupcione [e le dicte monsieur Richard trovera a dit Robert urre suffisaunt pur lez ditz
Olyvers pur le son donaunt:  these words are interlined].  Et fait a savoir qe le dit Robert
ne nule de soens coupard ne abatera nule manere darbre ne de boys put les deuz olyvers avaunt
ditz mes par la veu et la lyvere le dit monsire Richard, ou par ascun autre par le dit monsire
Richard assigne.  En tesmoigaunz (sic) de quenx choses a cestes presentes endentures les parties
enterchaungablement ount mys lour seals.  Escript a Creskelde le meskerdy en le semayn de Pasque
lan avaunt diste."

It is probable that the "blomes" referred to in this agreement were the bloomeries or fires
in which the iron was made; and that the "olyveres" were forges or erections, each of which
contained so many bloomeries, but were of limited durability, and probably perished in the using.

[4] The back of a grate has recently been found, cast by Richard Leonard at Brede Furnace in
1636.  It is curious as containing a representation of the founder with his dog and cups; a
drawing of the furnace, with the wheelbarrow and other implements for the casting, and on a
shield the pincers and other marks of the blacksmith.  Leonard was tenant of the Sackville
furnace at Little Udimore.--Sussex Archaeological Collections, vol. xii.

[6] Archaeologia, vol. x. 472.

[7] One of these, 6 1/2 feet long, and of 2 1/2 inches bore, manufactured in 1543, bears the
cast inscription of Petrus Baude Gallus operis artifex.

[8] Mr. Lower says, "Many foreigners were brought over to carry on the works; which perhaps
may account for the number of Frenchmen and Germans whose names appear in our parish registers
about the middle of the sixteenth century ."--Contributions to Literature, 108.

[9] The embankment and sluices of the furnace-pond at the upper part of the valley continue
to be maintained, the lake being used by the present Lord Ashburnham as a preserve for fish
and water-fowl.

[10] Reminding one of the odd motto assumed by Gillespie, the tobacconist of Edinburgh, founder
of Gillespie's Hospital, on whose carriage-panels was emblazoned a Scotch mull, with the motto,

  "Wha wad ha' thocht it,
  That noses could ha' bought it!"

It is just possible that the Fullers may have taken their motto from the words employed by
Juvenal in describing the father of Demosthenes, who was a blacksmith and a sword-cutler--

  "Quem pater ardentis massae fuligine lippus,
  A carbone et forcipibus gladiosque parante
  Incude et luteo Vulcano ad rhetora misit."

[11] It was then believed that sea or pit-coal was poisonous when burnt in dwellings, and that
it was especially injurious to the human complexion.  All sorts of diseases were attributed
to its use, and at one time it was even penal to burn it.  The Londoners only began to reconcile
themselves to the use of coal when the wood within reach of the metropolis had been nearly
all burnt up, and no other fuel was to be had.

[12] Archaeologia Cambrensis, 3rd Series, No. 34, April, 1863.  Art. "Sussex Ironmasters in
Glamorganshire."

"God of his Infinite goodness (if we will but take notice of his goodness unto this Nation)
hath made this Country a very Granary for the supplying of Smiths with Iron, Cole, and Lime
made with cole, which hath much supplied these men with Corn also of late; and from these men
a great part, not only of this Island, but also of his Majestie's other Kingdoms and Territories,
with Iron wares have their supply, and Wood in these parts almost exhausted, although it were
of late a mighty woodland country."--DUDLEY's Metallum Martis, 1665.

The severe restrictions enforced by the legislature against the use of wood in iron-smelting
had the effect of almost extinguishing the manufacture.  New furnaces ceased to be erected,
and many of the old ones were allowed to fall into decay, until it began to be feared that
this important branch of industry would become completely lost.  The same restrictions alike
affected the operations of the glass manufacture, which, with the aid of foreign artisans,
had been gradually established in England, and was becoming a thriving branch of trade.  It
was even proposed that the smelting of iron should be absolutely prohibited:  "many think,"
said a contemporary writer, "that there should be NO WORKS ANYWHERE--they do so devour the woods."

The use of iron, however, could not be dispensed with.  The very foundations of society rested
upon an abundant supply of it, for tools and implements of peace, as well as for weapons of
war.  In the dearth of the article at home, a supply of it was therefore sought for abroad;
and both iron and steel came to be imported in largely-increased quantities.  This branch of
trade was principally in the hands of the Steelyard Company of Foreign Merchants, established
in Upper Thames Street, a little above London Bridge; and they imported large quantities of
iron and steel from foreign countries, principally from Sweden, Germany, and Spain.  The best
iron came from Spain, though the Spaniards on their part coveted our English made cannons,
which were better manufactured than theirs; while the best steel came from Germany and Sweden.[1]

Under these circumstances, it was natural that persons interested in the English iron manufacture
should turn their attention to some other description of fuel which should serve as a substitute
for the prohibited article.  There was known to be an abundance of coal in the northern and
midland counties, and it occurred to some speculators more than usually daring, to propose
it as a substitute for the charcoal fuel made from wood.  But the same popular prejudice which
existed against the use of coal for domestic purposes, prevented its being employed for purposes
of manufacture; and they were thought very foolish persons indeed who first promulgated the
idea of smelting iron by means of pit-coal.  The old manufacturers held it to be impossible
to reduce the ore in any other way than by means of charcoal of wood. It was only when the
wood in the neighbourhood of the ironworks had been almost entirely burnt up, that the manufacturers
were driven to entertain the idea of using coal as a substitute; but more than a hundred years
passed before the practice of smelting iron by its means became general.

The first who took out a patent for the purpose was one Simon Sturtevant, a German skilled
in mining operations; the professed object of his invention being "to neale, melt, and worke
all kind of metal oares, irons, and steeles with sea-coale, pit-coale, earth-coale, and brush
fewell."  The principal end of his invention, he states in his Treatise of Metallica,[2] is
to save the consumption and waste of the woods and timber of the country; and, should his design
succeed, he holds that it "will prove to be the best and most profitable business and invention
that ever was known or invented in England these many yeares."  He says he has already made
trial of the process on a small scale, and is confident that it will prove equally successful
on a large one.  Sturtevant was not very specific as to his process; but it incidentally appears
to have been his purpose to reduce the coal by an imperfect combustion to the condition of
coke, thereby ridding it of "those malignant proprieties which are averse to the nature of
metallique substances." The subject was treated by him, as was customary in those days, as
a great mystery, made still more mysterious by the multitude of learned words under which he
undertook to describe his "Ignick Invention" All the operations of industry were then treated
as secrets.  Each trade was a craft, and those who followed it were called craftsmen.  Even
the common carpenter was a handicraftsman; and skilled artisans were "cunning men."  But the
higher branches of work were mysteries, the communication of which to others was carefully
guarded by the regulations of the trades guilds.  Although the early patents are called specifications,
they in reality specify nothing. They are for the most part but a mere haze of words, from
which very little definite information can be gleaned as to the processes patented.  It may
be that Sturtevant had not yet reduced his idea to any practicable method, and therefore could
not definitely explain it. However that may be, it is certain that his process failed when
tried on a large scale, and Sturtevant's patent was accordingly cancelled at the end of a year.

The idea, however, had been fairly born, and repeated patents were taken out with the same
object from time to time.  Thus, immediately on Sturtevant's failure becoming known, one John
Rovenzon, who had been mixed up with the other's adventure, applied for a patent for making
iron by the same process, which was granted him in 1613.  His 'Treatise of Metallica'[3] shows
that Rovenzon had a true conception of the method of manufacture.  Nevertheless he, too, failed
in carrying out the invention in practice, and his patent was also cancelled.  Though these
failures were very discouraging, like experiments continued to be made and patents taken out,--principally
by Dutchmen and Germans,[4]--but no decided success seems to have attended their efforts until
the year 1620, when Lord Dudley took out his patent "for melting iron ore, making bar-iron,
&c., with coal, in furnaces, with bellows." This patent was taken out at the instance of his
son Dud Dudley, whose story we gather partly from his treatise entitled 'Metallum Martis,'
and partly from various petitions presented by him to the king, which are preserved in the
State Paper Office, and it runs as follows:--

Dud Dudley was born in 1599, the natural son of Edward Lord Dudley of Dudley Castle in the
county of Worcester.  He was the fourth of eleven children by the same mother, who is described
in the pedigree of the family given in the Herald's visitation of the county of Stafford in
the year 1663, signed by Dud Dudley himself, as "Elizabeth, daughter of William Tomlinson of
Dudley, concubine of Edward Lord Dudley." Dud's eldest brother is described in the same pedigree
as Robert Dudley, Squire, of Netherton Hall; and as his sisters mostly married well, several
of them county gentlemen, it is obvious that the family, notwithstanding that the children
were born out of wedlock, held a good position in their neighbourhood, and were regarded with
respect.  Lord Dudley, though married and having legitimate heirs at the time, seems to have
attended to the up-bringing of his natural children; educating them carefully, and afterwards
employing them in confidential offices connected with the management of his extensive property.
Dud describes himself as taking great delight, when a youth, in his father's iron-works near
Dudley, where he obtained considerable knowledge of the various processes of the manufacture.

The town of Dudley was already a centre of the iron manufacture, though chiefly of small wares,
such as nails, horse-shoes, keys, locks, and common agricultural tools; and it was estimated
that there were about 20,000 smiths and workers in iron of various kinds living within a circuit
of ten miles of Dudley Castle.  But, as in the southern counties, the production of iron had
suffered great diminution from the want of fuel in the district, though formerly a mighty woodland
country; and many important branches of the local trade were brought almost to a stand-still.
Yet there was an extraordinary abundance of coal to be met with in the neighbourhood--coal
in some places lying in seams ten feet thick--ironstone four feet thick immediately under the
coal, with limestone conveniently adjacent to both.  The conjunction seemed almost providential--"as
if," observes Dud, "God had decreed the time when and how these smiths should be supplied,
and this island also, with iron, and most especially that this cole and ironstone should give
the first and just occasion for the invention of smelting iron with pit-cole;" though, as we
have already seen, all attempts heretofore made with that object had practically failed.

Dud was a special favourite of the Earl his father, who encouraged his speculations with reference
to the improvement of the iron manufacture, and gave him an education calculated to enable
him to turn his excellent practical abilities to account.  He was studying at Baliol College,
Oxford, in the year 1619, when the Earl sent for him to take charge of an iron furnace and
two forges in the chase of Pensnet in Worcestershire.  He was no sooner installed manager of
the works, than, feeling hampered by the want of wood for fuel, his attention was directed
to the employment of pit-coal as a substitute.  He altered his furnace accordingly, so as to
adapt it to the new process, and the result of the first trial was such as to induce him to
persevere.  It is nowhere stated in Dud Dudley's Treatise what was the precise nature of the
method adopted by him; but it is most probable that, in endeavouring to substitute coal for
wood as fuel, he would subject the coal to a process similar to that of charcoal-burning. 
The result would be what is called Coke; and as Dudley informs us that he followed up his first
experiment with a second blast, by means of which he was enabled to produce good marketable
iron, the presumption is that his success was also due to an improvement of the blast which
he contrived for the purpose of keeping up the active combustion of the fuel. Though the quantity
produced by the new process was comparatively small--not more than three tons a week from each
furnace--Dudley anticipated that greater experience would enable him to increase the quantity;
and at all events he had succeeded in proving the practicability of smelting iron with fuel
made from pit-coal, which so many before him had tried in vain.

Immediately after the second trial had been made with such good issue, Dud wrote to his father
the Earl, then in London, informing him what he had done, and desiring him at once to obtain
a patent for the invention from King James.  This was readily granted, and the patent (No.
18), dated the 22nd February, 1620, was taken out in the name of Lord Dudley himself.

Dud proceeded with the manufacture of iron at Pensnet, and also at Cradley in Staffordshire,
where he erected another furnace; and a year after the patent was granted he was enabled to
send up to the Tower, by the King's command, a considerable quantity of the new iron for trial.
Many experiments were made with it:  its qualities were fairly tested, and it was pronounced
"good merchantable iron."  Dud adds, in his Treatise, that his brother-in-law, Richard Parkshouse,
of Sedgeley,[5] "had a fowling-gun there made of the Pit-cole iron," which was "well approved."
There was therefore every prospect of the new method of manufacture becoming fairly established,
and with greater experience further improvements might with confidence be anticipated, when
a succession of calamities occurred to the inventor which involved him in difficulties and
put an effectual stop to the progress of his enterprise.

The new works had been in successful operation little more than a year, when a flood, long
after known as the "Great May-day Flood," swept away Dudley's principal works at Cradley, and
otherwise inflicted much damage throughout the district.  "At the market town called Stourbridge,"
says Dud, in the course of his curious narrative, "although the author sent with speed to preserve
the people from drowning, and one resolute man was carried from the bridge there in the day-time,
the nether part of the town was so deep in water that the people had much ado to preserve their
lives in the uppermost rooms of their houses."  Dudley himself received very little sympathy
for his losses.  On the contrary, the iron-smelters of the district rejoiced exceedingly at
the destruction of his works by the flood.  They had seen him making good iron by his new patent
process, and selling it cheaper than they could afford to do.  They accordingly put in circulation
all manner of disparaging reports about his iron.  It was bad iron, not fit to be used; indeed
no iron, except what was smelted with charcoal of wood, could be good.  To smelt it with coal
was a dangerous innovation, and could only result in some great public calamity.  The ironmasters
even appealed to King James to put a stop to Dud's manufacture, alleging that his iron was
not merchantable.  And then came the great flood, which swept away his works; the hostile ironmasters
now hoping that there was an end for ever of Dudley's pit-coal iron.

But Dud, with his wonted energy, forthwith set to work and repaired his furnaces and forges,
though at great cost; and in the course of a short time the new manufacture was again in full
progress.  The ironmasters raised a fresh outcry against him, and addressed another strong
memorial against Dud and his iron to King James.  This seems to have taken effect; and in order
to ascertain the quality of the article by testing it upon a large scale, the King commanded
Dudley to send up to the Tower of London, with every possible speed, quantities of all the
sorts of bar-iron made by him, fit for the "making of muskets, carbines, and iron for great
bolts for shipping; which iron," continues Dud, "being so tried by artists and smiths, the
ironmasters and iron-mongers were all silenced until the 21st year of King James's reign."
The ironmasters then endeavoured to get the Dudley patent included in the monopolies to be
abolished by the statute of that year; but all they could accomplish was the limitation of
the patent to fourteen years instead of thirty-one; the special exemption of the patent from
the operation of the statute affording a sufficient indication of the importance already attached
to the invention.  After that time Dudley "went on with his invention cheerfully, and made
annually great store of iron, good and merchantable, and sold it unto diverse men at twelve
pounds per ton." "I also," said he, "made all sorts of cast-iron wares, as brewing cisterns,
pots, mortars, &c., better and cheaper than any yet made in these nations with charcoal, some
of which are yet to be seen by any man (at the author's house in the city of Worcester) that
desires to be satisfied of the truth of the invention."

Notwithstanding this decided success, Dudley encountered nothing but trouble and misfortune.
The ironmasters combined to resist his invention; they fastened lawsuit's upon him, and succeeded
in getting him ousted from his works at Cradley.  From thence he removed to Himley in the county
of Stafford, where he set up a pit-coal furnace; but being without the means of forging the
iron into bars, he was constrained to sell the pig-iron to the charcoal-ironmasters, "who did
him much prejudice, not only by detaining his stock, but also by disparaging his iron."  He
next proceeded to erect a large new furnace at Hasco Bridge, near Sedgeley, in the same county,
for the purpose of carrying out the manufacture on the most improved principles.  This furnace
was of stone, twenty-seven feet square, provided with unusually large bellows; and when in
full work he says he was enabled to turn out seven tons of iron per week, "the greatest quantity
of pit-coal iron ever yet made in Great Britain."  At the same place he discovered and opened
out new workings of coal ten feet thick, lying immediately over the ironstone, and he prepared
to carry on his operations on a large scale; but the new works were scarcely finished when
a mob of rioters, instigated by the charcoal-ironmasters, broke in upon them, cut in pieces
the new bellows, destroyed the machinery, and laid the results of all his deep-laid ingenuity
and persevering industry in ruins.  From that time forward Dudley was allowed no rest nor peace:
he was attacked by mobs, worried by lawsuits, and eventually overwhelmed by debts.  He was
then seized by his creditors and sent up to London, where he was held a prisoner in the Comptoir
for several thousand pounds.  The charcoal-iron men thus for a time remained masters of the field.

Charles I. seems to have taken pity on the suffering inventor; and on his earnest petition,
setting forth the great advantages to the nation of his invention, from which he had as yet
derived no advantage, but only losses, sufferings, and persecution, the King granted him a
renewal of his patent[6] in the year 1638; three other gentlemen joining him as partners, and
doubtless providing the requisite capital for carrying on the manufacture after the plans of
the inventor.  But Dud's evil fortune continued to pursue him.  The patent had scarcely been
securedere the Civil War broke out, and the arts of peace must at once perforce give place
to the arts of war.  Dud's nature would not suffer him to be neutral at such a time; and when
the nation divided itself into two hostile camps, his predilections being strongly loyalist,
he took the side of the King with his father.  It would appear from a petition presented by
him to Charles II. in 1660, setting forth his sufferings in the royal cause, and praying for
restoral to certain offices which he had enjoyed under Charles I., that as early as the year
1637 he had been employed by the King on a mission into Scotland,[7] in the train of the Marquis
of Hamilton, the King's Commissioner.  Again in 1639, leaving his ironworks and partners, he
accompanied Charles on his expedition across the Scotch border, and was present with the army
until its discomfiture at Newburn near Newcastle in the following year.

The sword was now fairly drawn, and Dud seems for a time to have abandoned his iron-works and
followed entirely the fortunes of the king.  He was sworn surveyor of the Mews or Armoury in
1640, but being unable to pay for the patent, another was sworn in in his place.  Yet his loyalty
did not falter, for in the beginning of 1642, when Charles set out from London, shortly after
the fall of Strafford and Laud, Dud went with him.[8]  He was present before Hull when Sir
John Hotham shut its gates in the king's face; at York when the royal commissions of array
were sent out enjoining all loyal subjects to send men, arms, money, and horses, for defence
of the king and maintenance of the law; at Nottingham, where the royal standard was raised;
at Coventry, where the townspeople refused the king entrance and fired upon his troops from
the walls; at Edgehill, where the first great but indecisive battle was fought between the
contending parties; in short, as Dud Dudley states in his petition, he was "in most of the
battailes that year, and also supplyed his late sacred Majestie's magazines of Stafford, Worcester,
Dudley Castle, and Oxford, with arms, shot, drakes, and cannon; and also, became major unto
Sir Frauncis Worsley's regiment, which was much decaied."

In 1643, according to the statement contained in his petition above referred to, Dud Dudley
acted as military engineer in setting out the fortifications of Worcester and Stafford, and
furnishing them with ordnance.  After the taking of Lichfield, in which he had a share, he
was made Colonel of Dragoons, and accompanied the Queen with his regiment to the royal head-quarters
at Oxford.  The year after we find him at the siege of Gloucester, then at the first battle
of Newbury leading the forlorn hope with Sir George Lisle, afterwards marching with Sir Charles
Lucas into the associate counties, and present at the royalist rout at Newport.  That he was
esteemed a valiant and skilful officer is apparent from the circumstance, that in 1645 he was
appointed general of Prince Maurice's train of artillery, and afterwards held the same rank
under Lord Ashley.  The iron districts being still for the most part occupied by the royal
armies, our military engineer turned his practical experience to account by directing the forging
of drakes[9] of bar-iron, which were found of great use, giving up his own dwelling-house in
the city of Worcester for the purpose of carrying on the manufacture of these and other arms.
But Worcester and the western towns fell before the Parliamentarian armies in 1646, and all
the iron-works belonging to royalists, from which the principal supplies of arms had been drawn
by the King's army, were forthwith destroyed.

Dudley fully shared in the dangers and vicissitudes of that trying period, and bore his part
throughout like a valiant soldier.  For two years nothing was heard of him, until in 1648,
when the king's party drew together again, and made head in different parts of the country,
north and south.  Goring raised his standard in Essex, but was driven by Fairfax into Colchester,
where he defended himself for two months. While the siege was in progress, the royalists determined
to make an attempt to raise it.  On this Dud Dudley again made his appearance in the field,
and, joining sundry other counties, he proceeded to raise 200 men, mostly at his own charge.
They were, however, no sooner mustered in Bosco Bello woods near Madeley, than they were attacked
by the Parliamentarians, and dispersed or taken prisoners.  Dud was among those so taken, and
he was first carried to Hartlebury Castle and thence to Worcester, where he was imprisoned.
Recounting the sufferings of himself and his followers on this occasion, in the petition presented
to Charles II. in 1660,[10] he says, "200 men were dispersed, killed, and some taken, namely,
Major Harcourt, Major Elliotts, Capt.  Long, and Cornet Hodgetts, of whom Major Harcourt was
miserably burned with matches.  The petitioner and the rest were stripped almost naked, and
in triumph and scorn carried up to the city of Worcester (which place Dud had fortified for
the king), and kept close prisoners, with double guards set upon the prison and the city."

Notwithstanding this close watch and durance, Dudley and Major Elliotts contrived to break
out of gaol, making their way over the tops of the houses, afterwards passing the guards at
the city gates, and escaping into the open country.  Being hotly pursued, they travelled during
the night, and took to the trees during the daytime.  They succeeded in reaching London, but
only to drop again into the lion's mouth; for first Major Elliotts was captured, then Dudley,
and both were taken before Sir John Warner, the Lord Mayor, who forthwith sent them before
the "cursed committee of insurrection," as Dudley calls them.  The prisoners were summarily
sentenced to be shot to death, and were meanwhile closely imprisoned in the Gatehouse at Westminster,
with other Royalists.

The day before their intended execution, the prisoners formed a plan of escape.  It was Sunday
morning, the 20th August, 1648, when they seized their opportunity, "at ten of the cloeke in
sermon time;" and, overpowering the gaolers, Dudley, with Sir Henry Bates, Major Elliotts,
Captain South, Captain Paris, and six others, succeeded in getting away, and making again for
the open country.  Dudley had received a wound in the leg, and could only get along with great
difficulty.  He records that he proceeded on crutches, through Worcester, Tewkesbury, and Gloucester,
to Bristol, having been "fed three weeks in private in an enemy's hay mow."  Even the most
lynx-eyed Parliamentarian must have failed to recognise the quondam royalist general of artillery
in the helpless creature dragging himself along upon crutches; and he reached Bristol in safety.

His military career now over, he found himself absolutely penniless. His estate of about 200L.
per annum had been sequestrated and sold by the government;[11] his house in Worcester had
been seized and his sickly wife turned out of doors; and his goods, stock, great shop, and
ironworks, which he himself valued at 2000L., were destroyed.  He had also lost the offices
of Serjeant-at-arms, Lieutenant of Ordnance, and Surveyor of the Mews, which he had held under
the king; in a word, he found himself reduced to a state of utter destitution.

Dudley was for some time under the necessity of living in great privacy at Bristol; but when
the king had been executed, and the royalists were finally crushed at Worcester, Dud gradually
emerged from his concealment.  He was still the sole possessor of the grand secret of smelting
iron with pit-coal, and he resolved upon one more commercial adventure, in the hope of yet
turning it to good account.  He succeeded in inducing Walter Stevens, linendraper, and John
Stone, merchant, both of Bristol, to join him as partners in an ironwork, which they proceeded
to erect near that city.  The buildings were well advanced, and nearly 700L. had been expended,
when a quarrel occurred between Dudley and his partners, which ended in the stoppage of the
works, and the concern being thrown into Chancery.  Dudley alleges that the other partners
"cunningly drew him into a bond," and "did unjustly enter staple actions in Bristol of great
value against him, because he was of the king's party;" but it would appear as if there had
been some twist or infirmity of temper in Dudley himself, which prevented him from working
harmoniously with such persons as he became associated with in affairs of business.

In the mean time other attempts were made to smelt iron with pit-coal. Dudley says that Cromwell
and the then Parliament granted a patent to Captain Buck for the purpose; and that Cromwell
himself, Major Wildman, and various others were partners in the patent.  They erected furnaces
and works in the Forest of Dean;[12] but, though Cromwell and his officers could fight and
win battles, they could not smelt and forge iron with pit-coal.  They brought one Dagney, an
Italian glass-maker, from Bristol, to erect a new furnace for them, provided with sundry pots
of glass-house clay; but no success attended their efforts.  The partners knowing of Dudley's
possession of the grand secret, invited him to visit their works; but all they could draw from
him was that they would never succeed in making iron to profit by the methods they were pursuing.
They next proceeded to erect other works at Bristol, but still they failed.  Major Wildman[13]
bought Dudley's sequestrated estate, in the hope of being able to extort his secret of making
iron with pit-coal; but all their attempts proving abortive, they at length abandoned the enterprise
in despair.  In 1656, one Captain Copley obtained from Cromwell a further patent with a similar
object; and erected works near Bristol, and also in the Forest of Kingswood.  The mechanical
engineers employed by Copley failed in making his bellows blow; on which he sent for Dudley,
who forthwith "made his bellows to be blown feisibly;" but Copley failed, like his predecessors,
in making iron, and at length he too desisted from further experiments.

Such continued to be the state of things until the Restoration, when we find Dud Dudley a petitioner
to the king for the renewal of his patent. He was also a petitioner for compensation in respect
of the heavy losses he had sustained during the civil wars.  The king was besieged by crowds
of applicants of a similar sort, but Dudley was no more successful than the others.  He failed
in obtaining the renewal of his patent.  Another applicant for the like privilege, probably
having greater interest at court, proved more successful.  Colonel Proger and three others[14]
were granted a patent to make iron with coal; but Dudley knew the secret, which the new patentees
did not; and their patent came to nothing.

Dudley continued to address the king in importunate petitions, asking to be restored to his
former offices of Serjeant-at-arms, Lieutenant of Ordnance, and Surveyor of the Mews or Armoury.
He also petitioned to be appointed Master of the Charter House in Smithfield, professing himself
willing to take anything, or hold any living.[15]  We find him sending in two petitions to
a similar effect in June, 1660; and a third shortly after.  The result was, that he was reappointed
to the office of Serjeant-at-Arms; but the Mastership of the Charter-House was not disposed
of until 1662, when it fell to the lot of one Thomas Watson.[16]  In 1661, we find a patent
granted to Wm. Chamberlaine and--Dudley, Esq., for the sole use of their new invention of plating
steel, &c., and tinning the said plates; but whether Dud Dudley was the person referred to,
we are unable precisely to determine.  A few years later, he seems to have succeeded in obtaining
the means of prosecuting his original invention; for in his Metallum Martis, published in 1665,
he describes himself as living at Green's Lodge, in Staffordshire; and he says that near it
are four forges, Green's Forge, Swin Forge, Heath Forge, and Cradley Forge, where he practises
his "perfect invention." These forges, he adds, "have barred all or most part of their iron
with pit-coal since the authors first invention In 1618, which hath preserved much wood.  In
these four, besides many other forges, do the like [sic ]; yet the author hath had no benefit
thereby to this present."  From that time forward, Dud becomes lost to sight.  He seems eventually
to have retired to St.  Helen's in Worcestershire, where he died in 1684, in the 85th year
of his age.  He was buried in the parish church there, and a monument, now destroyed, was erected
to his memory, bearing the inscription partly set forth underneath.[17]

[1] As late as 1790, long after the monopoly of the foreign merchants had been abolished, Pennant
says, "The present Steelyard is the great repository of imported iron, which furnishes our
metropolis with that necessary material.  The quantity of bars that fills the yards and warehouses
of this quarter strikes with astonishment the most indifferent beholder."--PENNANT, Account
of London, 309.

[2] STURTEVANT'S Metallica; briefly comprehending the Doctrine of Diverse New Metallical Inventions,
&c.  Reprinted and published at the Great Seal Patent Office, 1858.

[3] Reprinted and published at the Great Seal Patent Office, 1858.

[4] Among the early patentees, besides the names of Sturtevant and Rovenzon, we find those
of Jordens, Francke, Sir Phillibert Vernatt, and other foreigners of the above nations.

[5] Mr. Parkshouse was one of the esquires to Sir Ferdinando Dudley (the legitimate son of
the Earl of Dudley) When he was made Knight of the Bath.  Sir Ferdinando's only daughter Frances
married Humble Ward, son and heir of William Ward, goldsmith and jeweller to Charles the First's
queen.  Her husband having been created a baron by the title of Baron Ward of Birmingham, and
Frances becoming Baroness of Dudley in her own right on the demise of her father, the baronies
of Dudley and Ward thus became united in their eldest son Edward in the year 1697.

[6] Patent No. 117, Old Series, granted in 1638, to Sir George Horsey, David Ramsey, Roger
Foulke, and Dudd Dudley.

[7] By his own account, given in Metallum Martis, while in Scotland in 1637, he visited the
Highlands as well as the Lowlands, spending the whole summer of that year "in opening of mines
and making of discoveries;" spending part of the time with Sir James Hope of Lead Hills, near
where, he says, "he got gold."  It does not appear, however, that any iron forges existed in
Scotland at the time:  indeed Dudley expressly says that "Scotland maketh no iron;" and in
his treatise of 1665 he urges that the Corporation of the Mines Royal should set him and his
inventions at work to enable Scotland to enjoy the benefit of a cheap and abundant supply of
the manufactured article.

[8] The Journals of the House of Commons, of the 13th June, 1642, contain the resolution "that
Captain Wolseley, Ensign Dudley, and John Lometon be forthwith sent for, as delinquents, by
the Serjeant-at-Arms attending on the House, for giving interruption to the execution of the
ordinance of the militia in the county of Leicester."

[9] Small pieces of artillery, specimens of which are still to be seen in the museum at Woolwich
Arsenal and at the Tower.

[10] State Paper Office, Dom. Charles II., vol. xi. 54.

[11] The Journals of the House of Commons, on the 2nd Nov. 1652, have the following entry:
"The House this day resumed the debate upon the additional Bill for sale of several lands and
estates forfeited to the Commonwealth for treason, when it was resolved that the name of Dud
Dudley of Green Lodge be inserted into this Bill."

[12] Mr. Mushet, in his 'Papers on Iron,' says, that "although he had carefully examined every
spot and relic in Dean Forest likely to denote the site of Dud Dudley's enterprising but unfortunate
experiment of making pig-iron with pit coal," it had been without success; neither could he
find any traces of the like operations of Cromwell and his partners.

[13] Dudley says, "Major Wildman, more barbarous to me than a wild man, although a minister,
bought the author's estate, near 200L. per annum, intending to compell from the author his
inventions of making iron with pitcole, but afterwards passed my estate unto two barbarous
brokers of London, that pulled down the author's two mantion houses, sold 500 timber trees
off his land, and to this day are his houses unrepaired." Wildman himself fell under the grip
of Cromwell.  Being one of the chiefs of the Republican party, he was seized at Exton, near
Marlborough, in 1654, and imprisoned in Chepstow Castle.

[14] June 13, 1661.  Petition of Col. Jas. Proger and three others to the king for a patent
for the sole exercise of their invention of melting down iron and other metals with coal instead
of wood, as the great consumption of coal [charcoal?] therein causes detriment to shipping,
&c.  With reference thereon to Attorney-General Palmer, and his report, June 18, in favour
of the petition,--State Papers, Charles II.  (Dom. vol. xxxvii, 49.)

[15] In his second petition he prays that a dwelling-house situated in Worcester, and belonging
to one Baldwin, "a known traitor," may be assigned to him in lieu of Alderman Nash's, which
had reverted to that individual since his return to loyalty; Dudley reminding the king that
his own house in that city had been given up by him for the service of his father Charles I.,
and turned into a factory for arms.  It does not appear that this part of his petition was
successful.

[16] State Papers, vol. xxxi. Doquet Book, p.89.

[17]

  Pulvis et umbra sumus
  Memento mori.

Dodo Dudley chiliarchi nobilis Edwardi nuper domini de Dudley filius, patri charus et regiae
Majestatis fidissimus subditus et servus in asserendo regein, in vindicartdo ecclesiam, in
propugnando legem ac libertatem Anglicanam, saepe captus, anno 1648, semel condemnatus et tamen
non decollatus, renatum denuo vidit diadaema hic inconcussa semper virtute senex.

  Differt non aufert mortem longissima vita
  Sed differt multam cras hodiere mori.
  Quod nequeas vitare, fugis:
  Nec formidanda est.

Plot frequently alludes to Dudley in his Natural History of Staffordshire, and when he does
so he describes him as the "worshipful Dud Dudley," showing the estimation in which he was
held by his contemporaries.

CHAPTER IV.

ANDREW YARRANTON.

"There never have been wanting men to whom England's improvement by sea and land was one of
the dearest thoughts of their lives, and to whom England's good was the foremost of their worldly
considerations.  And such, emphatically, was Andrew Yarranton, a true patriot in the best sense
of the word."--DOVE, Elements of Political Science.

That industry had a sore time of it during the civil wars will further appear from the following
brief account of Andrew Yarranton, which may be taken as a companion memoir to that of Dud
Dudley.  For Yarranton also was a Worcester ironmaster and a soldier--though on the opposite
side,--but more even than Dudley was he a man of public spirit and enterprise, an enlightened
political economist (long before political economy had been recognised as a science), and in
many respects a true national benefactor.  Bishop Watson said that he ought to have had a statue
erected to his memory because of his eminent public services; and an able modern writer has
gone so far as to say of him that he was "the founder of English political economy, the first
man in England who saw and said that peace was better than war, that trade was better than
plunder, that honest industry was better than martial greatness, and that the best occupation
of a government was to secure prosperity at home, and let other nations alone." [1]

Yet the name of Andrew Yarranton is scarcely remembered, or is at most known to only a few
readers of half-forgotten books.  The following brief outline of his history is gathered from
his own narrative and from documents in the State Paper Office.

Andrew Yarranton was born at the farmstead of Larford, in the parish of Astley, in Worcestershire,
in the year 1616.[2]  In his sixteenth year he was put apprentice to a Worcester linendraper,
and remained at that trade for some years; but not liking it, he left it, and was leading a
country life when the civil wars broke out.  Unlike Dudley, he took the side of the Parliament,
and joined their army, in which he served for some time as a soldier.  His zeal and abilities
commended him to his officers, and he was raised from one position to another, until in the
course of a few years we find him holding the rank of captain.  "While a soldier," says he,
"I had sometimes the honour and misfortune to lodge and dislodge an army;" but this is all
the information he gives us of his military career.  In the year 1648 he was instrumental in
discovering and frustrating a design on the part of the Royalists to seize Doyley House in
the county of Hereford, and other strongholds, for which he received the thanks of Parliament
"for his ingenuity, discretion, and valour," and a substantial reward of 500L.[3]  He was also
recommended to the Committee of Worcester for further employment. But from that time we hear
no more of him in connection with the civil wars.  When Cromwell assumed the supreme control
of affairs, Yarranton retired from the army with most of the Presbyterians, and devoted himself
to industrial pursuits.

We then find him engaged in carrying on the manufacture of iron at Ashley, near Bewdley, in
Worcestershire.  "In the year 1652", says he, "I entered upon iron-works, and plied them for
several years." [4]  He made it a subject of his diligent study how to provide employment for
the poor, then much distressed by the late wars.  With the help of his wife, he established
a manufacture of linen, which was attended with good results.  Observing how the difficulties
of communication, by reason of the badness of the roads, hindered the development of the rich
natural resources of the western counties,[5] he applied himself to the improvement of the
navigation of the larger rivers, making surveys of them at his own cost, and endeavouring to
stimulate local enterprise so as to enable him to carry his plans into effect.

While thus occupied, the restoration of Charles II. took place, and whether through envy or
enmity Yarranton's activity excited the suspicion of the authorities.  His journeys from place
to place seemed to them to point to some Presbyterian plot on foot.  On the 13th of November,
1660, Lord Windsor, Lord-Lieutenant of the county, wrote to the Secretary of State--"There
is a quaker in prison for speaking treason against his Majesty, and a countryman also, and
Captain Yarrington for refusing to obey my authority." [6]  It would appear from subsequent
letters that Yarranton must have lain in prison for nearly two years, charged with conspiring
against the king's authority, the only evidence against him consisting of some anonymous letter's.
At the end of May, 1662, he succeeded in making his escape from the custody of the Provost
Marshal.  The High Sheriff scoured the country after him at the head of a party of horse, and
then he communicated to the Secretary of State, Sir Edward Nicholas, that the suspected conspirator
could not be found, and was supposed to have made his way to London.  Before the end of a month
Yarranton was again in custody, as appears from the communication of certain justices of Surrey
to Sir Edward Nicholas.[7]  As no further notice of Yarranton occurs in the State Papers, and
as we shortly after find him publicly occupied in carrying out his plans for improving the
navigation of the western rivers, it is probable that his innocence of any plot was established
after a legal investigation.  A few years later he published in London a 4to. tract entitled
'A Full Discovery of the First Presbyterian Sham Plot,' which most probably contained a vindication
of his conduct.[8]

Yarranton was no sooner at liberty than we find him again occupied with his plans of improved
inland navigation.  His first scheme was to deepen the small river Salwarp, so as to connect
Droitwich with the Severn by a water communication, and thus facilitate the transport of the
salt so abundantly yielded by the brine springs near that town.  In 1665, the burgesses of
Droitwich agreed to give him 750L. and eight salt vats in Upwich, valued at 80L. per annum,
with three-quarters of a vat in Northwich, for twenty-one years, in payment for the work. 
But the times were still unsettled, and Yarranton and his partner Wall not being rich, the
scheme was not then carried into effect.[9]  In the following year we find him occupied with
a similar scheme to open up the navigation of the river Stour, passing by Stourport and Kidderminster,
and connect it by an artificial cut with the river Trent.  Some progress was made with this
undertaking, so far in advance of the age, but, like the other, it came to a stand still for
want of money, and more than a hundred years passed before it was carried out by a kindred
genius--James Brindley, the great canal maker.  Mr. Chambers says that when Yarranton's scheme
was first brought forward, it met with violent opposition and ridicule.  The undertaking was
thought wonderfully bold, and, joined to its great extent, the sandy, spongy nature of the
ground, the high banks necessary to prevent the inundation of the Stour on the canal, furnished
its opponents, if not with sound argument, at least with very specious topics for opposition
and laughter.[10]  Yarranton's plan was to make the river itself navigable, and by uniting
it with other rivers, open up a communication with the Trent; while Brindley's was to cut a
canal parallel with the river, and supply it with water from thence.  Yarranton himself thus
accounts for the failure of his scheme in 'England's Improvement by Sea and Land':--"It was
my projection," he says, "and I will tell you the reason why it was not finished.  The river
Stour and some other rivers were granted by an Act of Parliament to certain persons of honor,
and some progress was made in the work, but within a small while after the Act passed[11] it
was let fall again; but it being a brat of my own, I was not willing it should be abortive,
wherefore I made offers to perfect it, having a third part of the inheritance to me and my
heirs for ever, and we came to an agreement, upon which I fell on, and made it completely navigable
from Stourbridge to Kidderminster, and carried down many hundred tons of coal, and laid out
near 1000L., and there it was obstructed for want of money." [12]

Another of Yarranton's far-sighted schemes of a similar kind was one to connect the Thames
with the Severn by means of an artificial cut, at the very place where, more than a century
after his death, it was actually carried out by modern engineers.  This canal, it appears,
was twice surveyed under his direction by his son.  He did, however, succeed in his own time
in opening up the navigation of the Avon, and was the first to carry barges upon its waters
from Tewkesbury to Stratford.

The improvement of agriculture, too, had a share of Yarranton's attention.  He saw the soil
exhausted by long tillage and constantly repeated crops of rye, and he urged that the land
should have rest or at least rotation of crop.  With this object he introduced clover-seed,
and supplied it largely to the farmers of the western counties, who found their land doubled
in value by the new method of husbandry, and it shortly became adopted throughout the country.
Seeing how commerce was retarded by the small accommodation provided for shipping at the then
principal ports, Yarranton next made surveys and planned docks for the city of London; but
though he zealously advocated the subject, he found few supporters, and his plans proved fruitless.
In this respect he was nearly a hundred and fifty years before his age, and the London importers
continued to conduct their shipping business in the crowded tideway of the Thames down even
to the beginning of the present century.

While carrying on his iron works, it occurred to Yarranton that it would be of great national
advantage if the manufacture of tin-plate could be introduced into England.  Although the richest
tin mines then known existed in this country, the mechanical arts were at so low an ebb that
we were almost entirely dependent upon foreigners for the supply of the articles manufactured
from the metal.  The Saxons were the principal consumers of English tin, and we obtained from
them in return nearly the whole of our tin-plates.  All attempts made to manufacture them in
England had hitherto failed; the beating out of the iron by hammers into laminae sufficiently
thin and smooth, and the subsequent distribution and fixing of the film of tin over the surface
of the iron, proving difficulties which the English manufacturers were unable to overcome.
To master these difficulties the indefatigable Yarranton set himself to work.  "Knowing," says
he, "the usefulness of tin-plates and the goodness of our metals for that purpose, I did, about
sixteen years since (i.e.  about 1665), endeavour to find out the way for making thereof; whereupon
I acquainted a person of much riches, and one that was very understanding in the iron manufacture,
who was pleased to say that he had often designed to get the trade into England, but never
could find out the way.  Upon which it was agreed that a sum of monies should be advanced by
several persons,[13] for the defraying of my charges of travelling to the place where these
plates are made, and from thence to bring away the art of making them.  Upon which, an able
fire-man, that well understood the nature of iron, was made choice of to accompany me; and
being fitted with an ingenious interpreter that well understood the language, and that had
dealt much in that commodity, we marched first for Hamburgh, then to Leipsic, and from thence
to Dresden, the Duke of Saxony's court, where we had notice of the place where the plates were
made; which was in a large tract of mountainous land, running from a place called Seger-Hutton
unto a town called Awe [Au], being in length about twenty miles." [14]

It is curious to find how much the national industry of England has been influenced by the
existence from time to time of religious persecutions abroad, which had the effect of driving
skilled Protestant artisans, more particularly from Flanders and France, into England, where
they enjoyed the special protection of successive English Governments, and founded various
important branches of manufacture. But it appears from the history of the tin manufactures
of Saxony, that that country also had profited in like manner by the religious persecutions
of Germany, and even of England itself.  Thus we are told by Yarranton that it was a Cornish
miner, a Protestant, banished out of England for his religion in Queen Mary's time, who discovered
the tin mines at Awe, and that a Romish priest of Bohemia, who had been converted to Lutheranism
and fled into Saxony for refuge, "was the chief instrument in the manufacture until it was
perfected."  These two men were held in great regard by the Duke of Saxony as well as by the
people of the country; for their ingenuity and industry proved the source of great prosperity
and wealth, "several fine cities," says Yarranton, "having been raised by the riches proceeding
from the tin-works"--not less than 80,000 men depending upon the trade for their subsistence;
and when Yarranton visited Awe, he found that a statue had been erected to the memory of the
Cornish miner who first discovered the tin.

Yarranton was very civilly received by the miners, and, contrary to his expectation, he was
allowed freely to inspect the tin-works and examine the methods by which the iron-plates were
rolled out, as well as the process of tinning them.  He was even permitted to engage a number
of skilled workmen, whom he brought over with him to England for the purpose of starting the
manufacture in this country.  A beginning was made, and the tin-plates manufactured by Yarranton's
men were pronounced of better quality even than those made in Saxony.  "Many thousand plates,"
Yarranton says, "were made from iron raised in the Forest of Dean, and were tinned over with
Cornish tin; and the plates proved far better than the German ones, by reason of the toughness
and flexibleness of our forest iron.  One Mr. Bison, a tinman in Worcester, Mr. Lydiate near
Fleet Bridge, and Mr. Harrison near the King's Bench, have wrought many, and know their goodness."
As Yarranton's account was written and published during the lifetime of the parties, there
is no reason to doubt the accuracy of his statement.

Arrangements were made to carry on the manufacture upon a large scale; but the secret having
got wind, a patent was taken out, or "trumpt up" as Yarranton calls it, for the manufacture,
"the patentee being countenanced by some persons of quality," and Yarranton was precluded from
carrying his operations further.  It is not improbable that the patentee in question was William
Chamberlaine, Dud Dudley's quondam partner in the iron manufacture.[15]  "What with the patent
being in our way," says Yarranton, "and the richest of our partners being afraid to offend
great men in power, who had their eye upon us, it caused the thing to cool, and the making
of the tin-plates was neither proceeded in by us, nor possibly could be by him that had the
patent; because neither he that hath the patent, nor those that have countenanced him, can
make one plate fit for use." Yarranton's labours were thus lost to the English public for a
time; and we continued to import all our tin-plates from Germany until about sixty years later,
when a tin-plate manufactory was established by Capel Hanbury at Pontypool in Monmouthshire,
where it has since continued to be successfully carried on.

We can only briefly refer to the subsequent history of Andrew Yarranton.  Shortly after his
journey into Saxony, he proceeded to Holland to examine the inland navigations of the Dutch,
to inspect their linen and other manufactures, and to inquire into the causes of the then extraordinary
prosperity of that country compared with England.  Industry was in a very languishing state
at home.  "People confess they are sick," said Yarranton, "that trade is in a consumption,
and the whole nation languishes."  He therefore determined to ascertain whether something useful
might not be learnt from the example of Holland.  The Dutch were then the hardest working and
the most thriving people in Europe.  They were manufacturers and carriers for the world.  Their
fleets floated on every known sea; and their herring-busses swarmed along our coasts as far
north as the Hebrides. The Dutch supplied our markets with fish caught within sight of our
own shores, while our coasting population stood idly looking on.  Yarranton regarded this state
of things as most discreditable, and he urged the establishment of various branches of home
industry as the best way of out-doing the Dutch without fighting them.

Wherever he travelled abroad, in Germany or in Holland, he saw industry attended by wealth
and comfort, and idleness by poverty and misery. The same pursuits, he held, would prove as
beneficial to England as they were abundantly proved to have been to Holland.  The healthy
life of work was good for all--for individuals as for the whole nation; and if we would out-do
the Dutch, he held that we must out-do them in industry.  But all must be done honestly and
by fair means.  "Common Honesty," said Yarranton, "is as necessary and needful in kingdoms
and commonwealths that depend upon Trade, as discipline is in an army; and where there is want
of common Honesty in a kingdom or commonwealth, from thence Trade shall depart.  For as the
Honesty of all governments is, so shall be their Riches; and as their Honour, Honesty, and
Riches are, so will be their Strength; and as their Honour, Honesty, Riches, and Strength are,
so will be their Trade.  These are five sisters that go hand in hand, and must not be parted."
Admirable sentiments, which are as true now as they were two hundred years ago, when Yarranton
urged them upon the attention of the English public.

On his return from Holland, he accordingly set on foot various schemes of public utility. 
He stirred up a movement for the encouragement of the British fisheries.  He made several journeys
into Ireland for the purpose of planting new manufactures there.  He surveyed the River Slade
with the object of rendering it navigable, and proposed a plan for improving the harbour of
Dublin.  He also surveyed the Dee in England with a view to its being connected with the Severn.
Chambers says that on the decline of his popularity in 1677, he was taken by Lord Clarendon
to Salisbury to survey the River Avon, and find out how that river might be made navigable,
and also whether a safe harbour for ships could be made at Christchurch; and that having found
where he thought safe anchorage might be obtained, his Lordship proceeded to act upon Yarranton's
recommendations.[16]

Another of his grand schemes was the establishment of the linen manufacture in the central
counties of England, which, he showed, were well adapted for the growth of flax; and he calculated
that if success attended his efforts, at least two millions of money then sent out of the country
for the purchase of foreign linen would be retained at home, besides increasing the value of
the land on which the flax was grown, and giving remunerative employment to our own people,
then emigrating for want of work.  "Nothing but Sloth or Envy," he said, "can possibly hinder
my labours from being crowned with the wished for success; our habitual fondness for the one
hath already brought us to the brink of ruin, and our proneness to the other hath almost discouraged
all pious endeavours to promote our future happiness."

In 1677 he published the first part of his England's Improvement by Sea and Land--a very remarkable
book, full of sagacious insight as respected the future commercial and manufacturing greatness
of England. Mr. Dove says of this book that "Yarranton chalks out in it the future course of
Britain with as free a hand as if second-sight had revealed to him those expansions of her
industrial career which never fail to surprise us, even when we behold them realized." Besides
his extensive plans for making harbours and improving internal navigation with the object of
creating new channels for domestic industry, his schemes for extending the iron and the woollen
trades, establishing the linen manufacture, and cultivating the home fisheries, we find him
throwing out various valuable suggestions with reference to the means of facilitating commercial
transactions, some of winch have only been carried out in our own day.  One of his grandest
ideas was the establishment of a public bank, the credit of which, based upon the security
of freehold land,[17] should enable its paper "to go in trade equal with ready money."  A bank
of this sort formed one of the principal means by which the Dutch had been enabled to extend
their commercial transactions, and Yarranton accordingly urged its introduction into England.
Part of his scheme consisted of a voluntary register of real property, for the purpose of effecting
simplicity of title, and obtaining relief from the excessive charges for law,[18] as well as
enabling money to be readily raised for commercial purposes on security of the land registered.

He pointed out very graphically the straits to which a man is put who is possessed of real
property enough, but in a time of pressure is unable to turn himself round for want of ready
cash.  "Then," says he, "all his creditors crowd to him as pigs do through a hole to a bean
and pease rick."  "Is it not a sad thing," he asks, "that a goldsmith's boy in Lombard Street,
who gives notes for the monies handed him by the merchants, should take up more monies upon
his notes in one day than two lords, four knights, and eight esquires in twelve months upon
all their personal securities? We are, as it were, cutting off our legs and arms to see who
will feed the trunk.  But we cannot expect this from any of our neighbours abroad, whose interest
depends upon our loss."

He therefore proposed his registry of property as a ready means of raising a credit for purposes
of trade.  Thus, he says, "I can both in England and Wales register my wedding, my burial,
and my christening, and a poor parish clerk is entrusted with the keeping of the book; and
that which is registered there is held good by our law.  But I cannot register my lands, to
be honest, to pay every man his own, to prevent those sad things that attend families for want
thereof, and to have the great benefit and advantage that would come thereby.  A register will
quicken trade, and the land registered will be equal as cash in a man's hands, and the credit
thereof will go and do in trade what ready money now doth."  His idea was to raise money, when
necessary, on the land registered, by giving security thereon after a form which he suggested.
He would, in fact, have made land, as gold now is, the basis of an extended currency; and he
rightly held that the value of land as a security must always be unexceptionable, and superior
to any metallic basis that could possibly be devised.

This indefatigable man continued to urge his various designs upon the attention of the public
until he was far advanced in years.  He professed that he was moved to do so (and we believe
him) solely by an ardent love for his country, "whose future flourishing," said he, "is the
only reward I ever hope to see of all my labours."  Yarranton, however, received but little
thanks for his persistency, while he encountered many rebuffs.  The public for the most part
turned a deaf ear to his entreaties; and his writings proved of comparatively small avail,
at least during his own lifetime.  He experienced the lot of many patriots, even the purest--the
suspicion and detraction of his contemporaries.  His old political enemies do not seem to have
forgotten him, of which we have the evidence in certain rare "broadsides" still extant, twitting
him with the failure of his schemes, and even trumping up false charges of disloyalty against
him.[19]

In 1681 he published the second part of 'England's Improvement,'[20] in which he gave a summary
account of its then limited growths and manufactures, pointing out that England and Ireland
were the only northern kingdoms remaining unimproved; he re-urged the benefits and necessity
of a voluntary register of real property; pointed out a method of improving the Royal Navy,
lessening the growing power of France, and establishing home fisheries; proposed the securing
and fortifying of Tangier; described a plan for preventing fires in London, and reducing the
charge for maintaining the Trained Bands; urged the formation of a harbour at Newhaven in Sussex;
and, finally, discoursed at considerable length upon the tin, iron, linen, and woollen trades,
setting forth various methods for their improvement.  In this last section, after referring
to the depression in the domestic tin trade (Cornish tin selling so low as 70s. the cwt.),
he suggested a way of reviving it.  With the Cornish tin he would combine "the Roman cinders
and iron-stone in the Forest of Dean, which makes the best iron for most uses in the world,
and works up to the best advantage, with delight and pleasure to the workmen."  He then described
the history of his own efforts to import the manufacture of tin-plates into England some sixteen
years before, in which he had been thwarted by Chamberlaine's patent, as above described,--and
offered sundry queries as to the utility of patents generally, which, says he, "have the tendency
to drive trade out of the kingdom." Appended to the chapter on Tin is an exceedingly amusing
dialogue between a tin-miner of Cornwall, an iron-miner of Dean Forest, and a traveller (himself).
From this we gather that Yarranton's business continued to be that of an iron-manufacturer
at his works at Ashley near Bewdley.  Thus the iron-miner says, "About 28 years since Mr. Yarranton
found out a vast quantity of Roman cinders, near the walls of the city of Worcester, from whence
he and others carried away many thousand tons or loads up the river Severn, unto their iron-furnaces,
to be melted down into iron, with a mixture of the Forest of Dean iron-stone; and within 100
yards of the walls of the city of Worcester there was dug up one of the hearths of the Roman
foot-blasts, it being then firm and in order, and was 7 foot deep in the earth; and by the
side of the work there was found a pot of Roman coin to the quantity of a peck, some of which
was presented to Sir [Wm.] Dugdale, and part thereof is now in the King's Closet." [21]

In the same year (1681) in which the second part of 'England's Improvement' appeared, Yarranton
proceeded to Dunkirk for the purpose of making a personal survey of that port, then belonging
to England; and on his return he published a map of the town, harbour, and castle on the sea,
with accompanying letterpress, in which he recommended, for the safety of British trade, the
demolition of the fortifications of Dunkirk before they were completed, which he held would
only be for the purpose of their being garrisoned by the French king.  His 'Full Discovery
of the First Presbyterian Sham Plot' was published in the same year; and from that time nothing
further is known of Andrew Yarranton.  His name and his writings have been alike nearly forgotten;
and, though Bishop Watson declared of him that he deserved to have a statue erected to his
memory as a great public benefactor, we do not know that he was so much as honoured with a
tombstone; for we have been unable, after careful inquiry, to discover when and where he died.

Yarranton was a man whose views were far in advance of his age.  The generation for whom he
laboured and wrote were not ripe for their reception and realization; and his voice sounded
among the people like that of one crying in the wilderness.  But though his exhortations to
industry and his large plans of national improvement failed to work themselves into realities
in his own time, he broke the ground, he sowed the seed, and it may be that even at this day
we are in some degree reaping the results of his labours.  At all events, his books still live
to show how wise and sagacious Andrew Yarranton was beyond his contemporaries as to the true
methods of establishing upon solid foundations the industrial prosperity of England.

[1] PATRICK EDWARD DOVE, Elements of Political Science.  Edinburgh, 1854.

[2] A copy of the entries in the parish register relating to the various members of the Yarranton
family, kindly forwarded to us by the Rev. H. W. Cookes, rector of Astley, shows them to have
resided in that parish for many generations.  There were the Yarrantons of Yarranton, of Redstone,
of Larford, of Brockenton, and of Longmore.  With that disregard for orthography in proper
names which prevailed some three hundred years since, they are indifferently designated as
Yarran, Yarranton, and Yarrington.  The name was most probably derived from two farms named
Great and Little Yarranton, or Yarran (originally Yarhampton), situated in the parish of Astley.
The Yarrantons frequently filled local offices in that parish, and we find several of them
officiating at different periods as bailiffs of Bewdley.

[3] Journals of the House of Commons, 1st July, 1648.

[4] YARRANTON'S England's Improvement by Sea and Land.  Part I. London, 1677.

[5] There seems a foundation of truth in the old English distich--

 The North for Greatness, the East for Health,
 The South for Neatness, the West for Wealth.

[6] State Paper Office.  Dom. Charles II. 1660-1.  Yarranton afterwards succeeded in making
a friend of Lord Windsor, as would appear from his dedication of England's Improvement to his
Lordship, whom he thanks for the encouragement he had given to him in his survey of several
rivers with a view to their being rendered navigable.

[7] The following is a copy of the document from the State Papers:--"John Bramfield, Geo. Moore,
and Thos. Lee, Esqrs. and Justices of Surrey, to Sir Edw. Nicholas.--There being this day brought
before us one Andrew Yarranton, and he accused to have broken prison, or at least made his
escape out of the Marshalsea at Worcester, being there committed by the Deputy-Lieuts. upon
suspicion of a plot in November last; we having thereupon examined him, he allegeth that his
Majesty hath been sought unto on his behalf, and hath given order to yourself for his discharge,
and a supersedeas against all persons and warrants, and thereupon hath desired to appeal unto
you.  The which we conceiving to be convenient and reasonable (there being no positive charge
against  him before us), have accordingly herewith conveyed him unto you by a safe hand, to
be further examined or disposed of as you shall find meet."--S. P. O. Dom. Chas. II. 23rd June,
1662.

[8] We have been unable to refer to this tract, there being no copy of it in the British Museum.

[9] NASH'S Worcestershire, i. 306.

[10] JOHN CHAMBERS, Biographical Illustrations of Worcestershire. London, 1820.

[11] The Act for making the Stour and Salwarp navigable originated in the Lords and was passed
in the year 1661.

[12] Nash, in his Hist. of Worc., intimates that Lord Windsor subsequently renewed the attempt
to make the Salwarp navigable.  He constructed five out of the six locks, and then abandoned
the scheme. Gough, in his edition of Camden's Brit. ii. 357, Lond. 1789, says, "It is not long
since some of the boats made use of in Yarranton's navigation were found.  Neither tradition
nor our projector's account of the matter perfectly satisfy us why this navigation was neglected.....
We must therefore conclude that the numerous works and glass-houses upon the Stour, and in
the neighbourhood of Stourbridge, did not then exist, A.D. 1666.  ....The navigable communication
which now connects Trent and Severn, and which runs in the course of Yarranton's project, is
already of general use....  The canal since executed under the inspection of Mr. Brindley,
running parallel with the river....  cost the proprietors 105,000L."

[13] In the dedication of his book, entitled Englands Improvement by Sea and Land, Part I.,
Yarranton gives the names of the "noble patriots" who sent him on his journey of inquiry. 
They were Sir Waiter Kirtham Blount, Bart., Sir Samuel Baldwin and Sir Timothy Baldwin, Knights,
Thomas Foley and Philip Foley, Esquires, and six other gentlemen.  The father of the Foleys
was himself supposed to have introduced the art of iron-splitting into England by an expedient
similar to that adopted by Yarranton in obtaining a knowledge of the tin-plate manufacture
(Self-Help, p.145).  The secret of the silk-throwing machinery of Piedmont was in like manner
introduced into England by Mr. Lombe of Derby, who shortly succeeded in founding a flourishing
branch of manufacture.  These were indeed the days of romance and adventure in manufactures.

[14] The district is known as the Erzgebirge or Ore Mountains, and the Riesengebirge or Giant
Mountains, MacCulloch says that upwards of 500 mines are wrought in the former district, and
that one-thirtieth of the entire population of Saxony to this day derive their subsistence
from mining industry and the manufacture of metallic products.-- Geographical Dict. ii. 643,
edit. 1854.

[15] Chamberlaine and Dudley's first licence was granted in 1661 for plating steel and tinning
the said plates; and Chamberlaine's sole patent for "plating and tinning iron, copper, &c.,"
was granted in 1673, probably the patent in question.

[16] JOHN CHAMBERS, Biographical Illustrations of Worcestershire. London, 1820.

[17] Yarranton's Land Bank was actually projected in 1695, and received the sanction of Parliament;
though the Bank of England (founded in the preceding year) petitioned against it, and the scheme
was dropped.

[18] It is interesting to note in passing, that part of Yarranton's scheme has recently been
carried into effect by the Act (25 and 26 Vict. c. 53) passed in 1862 for the Registration
of Real Estate.

[19] One of these is entitled 'A Coffee-house Dialogue, or a Discourse between Captain Y----
and a Young Barrister of the Middle Temple; with some Reflections upon the Bill against the
D. of Y.' In this broadside, of 3 1/2 pages folio, published about 1679, Yarranton is made
to favour the Duke of York's exclusion from the throne, not only because he was a papist, but
for graver reasons than he dare express.  Another scurrilous pamphlet, entitled 'A Word Without
Doors,' was also aimed at him.  Yarranton, or his friends, replied to the first attack in a
folio of two pages, entitled 'The Coffee-house Dialogue Examined and Refuted, by some Neighbours
in the Country, well-wishers to the Kingdom's interest.' The controversy was followed up by
'A Continuation of the Coffee-house Dialogue,' in which the chief interlocutor hits Yarranton
rather hard for the miscarriage of his "improvements."  "I know," says he, "when and where
you undertook for a small charge to make a river navigable, and it has cost the proprietors
about six times as much, and is not yet effective; nor can any man rationally predict when
it will be.  I know since you left it your son undertook it, and this winter shamefully left
his undertaking."  Yarranton's friends immediately replied in a four-page folio, entitled 'England's
Improvements Justified; and the Author thereof, Captain Y., vindicated from the Scandals in
a paper called a Coffee-house Dialogue; with some Animadversions upon the Popish Designs therein
contained.' The writer says he writes without the privity or sanction of Yarranton, but declares
the dialogue to be a forgery, and that the alleged conference never took place.  "His innocence,
when he heard of it, only provoked a smile, with this answer, Spreta vilescunt, falsehoods
mu st perish, and are soonest destroyed by contempt; so that he needs no further vindication.
The writer then proceeds at some length to vindicate the Captain's famous work and the propositions
contained in it.

[20] This work (especially with the plates) is excessively rare.  There is a copy of it in
perfect condition in the Grenville Library, British Museum.

[21] Dr. Nash, in his History of Worcestershire, has thrown some doubts upon this story; but
Mr. Green, in his Historical Antiquities of the city, has made a most able defence of Yarranton's
statement (vol.i.  9, in foot-note).

CHAPTER V.

COALBROOKDALE IRON WORKS--THE DARBYS AND REYNOLDSES.

"The triumph of the industrial arts will advance the cause of civilization more rapidly than
its warmest advocates could have hoped, and contribute to the permanent prosperity and strength
of the country far move than the most splendid victories of successful war."--C. BABBAGE, The
Exposition of 1851.

Dud Dudley's invention of smelting iron with coke made of pit-coal was, like many others, born
before its time.  It was neither appreciated by the iron-masters nor by the workmen.  All schemes
for smelting ore with any other fuel than charcoal made from wood were regarded with incredulity.
As for Dudley's Metallum Martis, as it contained no specification, it revealed no secret; and
when its author died, his secret, whatever it might be, died with him.  Other improvements
were doubtless necessary before the invention could be turned to useful account.  Thus, until
a more powerful blowing-furnace had been contrived, the production of pit-coal iron must necessarily
have been limited.  Dudley himself does not seem to have been able to make more on an average
than five tons a-week, and seven tons at the outside. Nor was the iron so good as that made
by charcoal; for it is admitted to have been especially liable to deterioration by the sulphureous
fumes of the coal in the process of manufacture.

Dr. Plot, in his 'History of Staffordshire,' speaks of an experiment made by one Dr. Blewstone,
a High German, as "the last effort" made in that county to smelt iron-ore with pit-coal.  He
is said to have "built his furnace at Wednesbury, so ingeniously contrived (that only the flame
of the coal should come to the ore, with several other conveniences), that many were of opinion
he would succeed in it.  But experience, that great baffler of speculation, showed it would
not be; the sulphureous vitriolic steams that issue from the pyrites, which frequently, if
not always, accompanies pit-coal, ascending with the flame, and poisoning the ore sufficiently
to make it render much worse iron than that made with charcoal, though not perhaps so much
worse as the body of the coal itself would possibly do." [1]  Dr. Plot does not give the year
in which this "last effort" was made; but as we find that one Dr. Frederic de Blewston obtained
a patent from Charles II. on the 25th October, 1677, for "a new and effectual way of melting
down, forging, extracting, and reducing of iron and all metals and minerals with pit-coal and
sea-coal, as well and effectually as ever hath yet been done by charcoal, and with much less
charge;" and as Dr. Plot's History, in which he makes mention of the experiment and its failure,
was published in 1686, it is obvious that the trial must have been made between those years.

As the demand for iron steadily increased with the increasing population of the country, and
as the supply of timber for smelting purposes was diminishing from year to year, England was
compelled to rely more and more upon foreign countries for its supply of manufactured iron.
The number of English forges rapidly dwindled, and the amount of the home production became
insignificant in comparison with what was imported from abroad.  Yarranton, writing in 1676,
speaks of "the many iron-works laid down in Kent, Sussex, Surrey, and in the north of England,
because the iron of Sweadland, Flanders, and Spain, coming in so cheap, it cannot be made to
profit here."  There were many persons, indeed, who held that it was better we should be supplied
with iron from Spain than make it at home, in consequence of the great waste of wood involved
by the manufacture; but against this view Yarranton strongly contended, and held, what is as
true now as it was then, that the manufacture of iron was the keystone of England's industrial
prosperity.  He also apprehended great danger to the country from want of iron in event of
the contingency of a foreign war.  "When the greatest part of the iron-works are asleep," said
he, "if there should be occasion for great quantities of guns and bullets, and other sorts
of iron commodities, for a present unexpected war, and the Sound happen to be locked up, and
so prevent iron coming to us, truly we should then be in a fine case!"

Notwithstanding these apprehended national perils arising from the want of iron, no steps seem
to have been taken to supply the deficiency, either by planting woods on a large scale, as
recommended by Yarranton, or by other methods; and the produce of English iron continued steadily
to decline.  In 1720-30 there were found only ten furnaces remaining in blast in the whole
Forest of Dean, where the iron-smelters were satisfied with working up merely the cinders left
by the Romans.  A writer of the time states that we then bought between two and three hundred
thousand pounds' worth of foreign iron yearly, and that England was the best customer in Europe
for Swedish and Russian iron.[2]  By the middle of the eighteenth century the home manufacture
had so much fallen off, that the total production of Great Britain is supposed to have amounted
to not more than 18,000 tons a year; four-fifths of the iron used in the country being imported
from Sweden.[3]

The more that the remaining ironmasters became straitened for want of wood, the more they were
compelled to resort to cinders and coke made from coal as a substitute.  And it was found that
under certain circumstances this fuel answered the purpose almost as well as charcoal of wood.
The coke was made by burning the coal in heaps in the open air, and it was usually mixed with
coal and peat in the process of smelting the ore.  Coal by itself was used by the country smiths
for forging whenever they could procure it for their smithy fires; and in the midland counties
they had it brought to them, sometimes from great distances, slung in bags across horses' backs,--for
the state of the roads was then so execrable as not to admit of its being led for any considerable
distance in carts.  At length we arrive at a period when coal seems to have come into general
use, and when necessity led to its regular employment both in smelting the ore and in manufacturing
the metal.  And this brings us to the establishment of the Coalbrookdale works, where the smelting
of iron by means of coke and coal was first adopted on a large scale as the regular method
of manufacture.

Abraham Darby, the first of a succession of iron manufacturers who bore the same name, was
the son of a farmer residing at Wrensnest, near Dudley.  He served an apprenticeship to a maker
of malt-kilns near Birmingham, after which he married and removed to Bristol in 1700, to begin
business on his own account.  Industry is of all politics and religions:  thus Dudley was a
Royalist and a Churchman, Yarranton was a Parliamentarian and a Presbyterian, and Abraham Darby
was a Quaker.  At Bristol he was joined by three partners of the same persuasion, who provided
the necessary capital to enable him to set up works at Baptist Mills, near that city, where
he carried on the business of malt-mill making, to which he afterwards added brass and iron
founding.

At that period cast-iron pots were in very general use, forming the principal cooking utensils
of the working class.  The art of casting had, however, made such small progress in England
that the pots were for the most part imported from abroad.  Darby resolved, if possible, to
enter upon this lucrative branch of manufacture; and he proceeded to make a number of experiments
in pot-making.  Like others who had preceded him, he made his first moulds of clay; but they
cracked and burst, and one trial failed after another.  He then determined to find out the
true method of manufacturing the pots, by travelling into the country from whence the best
were imported, in order to master the grand secret of the trade.  With this object he went
over to Holland in the year 1706, and after diligent inquiry he ascertained that the only sure
method of casting "Hilton ware," as such castings were then called, was in moulds of fine dry
sand.  This was the whole secret.

Returning to Bristol, accompanied by some skilled Dutch workmen, Darby began the new manufacture,
and succeeded to his satisfaction.  The work was at first carried on with great secrecy, lest
other makers should copy the art; and the precaution was taken of stopping the keyhole of the
workshop-door while the casting was in progress.  To secure himself against piracy, he proceeded
to take out a patent for the process in the year 1708, and it was granted for the term of fourteen
years.  The recital of the patent is curious, as showing the backward state of English iron-founding
at that time.  It sets forth that "whereas our trusty and well-beloved Abraham Darby, of our
city of Bristol, smith, hath by his petition humbly represented to us, that by his study, industry,
and expense, he hath found out and brought to perfection a new way of casting iron bellied
pots and other iron bellied ware in sand only, without loam or clay, by which such iron pots
and other ware may be cast fine and with more ease and expedition, and may be afforded cheaper
than they can be by the way commonly used; and in regard to their cheapness may be of great
advantage to the poor of this our kingdom, who for the most part use such ware, and in all
probability will prevent the merchants of England going to foreign markets for such ware, from
whence great quantities are imported, and likewise may in time supply other markets with that
manufacture of our dominions, &c..... grants the said Abraham Darby the full power and sole
privilege to make and sell such pots and ware for and during the term of fourteen years thence
ensuing."

Darby proceeded to make arrangements for carrying on the manufacture upon a large scale at
the Baptist Mills; but the other partners hesitated to embark more capital in the concern,
and at length refused their concurrence.  Determined not to be baulked in his enterprise, Darby
abandoned the Bristol firm; and in the year 1709 he removed to Coalbrookdale in Shropshire,
with the intention of prosecuting the enterprise on his own account.  He took the lease of
a little furnace which had existed at the place for more than a century, as the records exist
of a "smethe" or "smeth-house" at Coalbrookdale in the time of the Tudors.  The woods of oak
and hazel which at that time filled the beautiful dingles of the dale, and spread in almost
a continuous forest to the base of the Wrekin, furnished abundant fuel for the smithery. As
the trade of the Coalbrookdale firm extended, these woods became cleared, until the same scarcity
of fuel began to be experienced that had already desolated the forests of Sussex, and brought
the manufacture of iron in that quarter to a stand-still.

It appears from the 'Blast Furnace Memorandum Book' of Abraham Darby, which we have examined,
that the make of iron at the Coalbrookdale foundry, in 1713, varied from five to ten tons a
week.  The principal articles cast were pots, kettles, and other "hollow ware," direct from
the smelting-furnace; the rest of the metal was run into pigs.  In course of time we find that
other castings were turned out:  a few grates, smoothing-irons, door-frames, weights, baking-plates,
cart-bushes, iron pestles and mortars, and occasionally a tailor's goose.  The trade gradually
increased, until we find as many as 150 pots and kettles cast in a week.

The fuel used in the furnaces appears, from the Darby Memorandum-Book, to have been at first
entirely charcoal; but the growing scarcity of wood seems to have gradually led to the use
of coke, brays or small coke, and peat.  An abundance of coals existed in the neighbourhood:
by rejecting those of inferior quality, and coking the others with great care, a combustible
was obtained better fitted even than charcoal itself for the fusion of that particular kind
of ore which is found in the coal-measures.  Thus we find Darby's most favourite charge for
his furnaces to have been five baskets of coke, two of brays, and one of peat; next followed
the ore, and then the limestone.  The use of charcoal was gradually given up as the art of
smelting with coke and brays improved, most probably aided by the increased power of the furnace-blast,
until at length we find it entirely discontinued.

The castings of Coalbrookdale gradually acquired a reputation, and the trade of Abraham Darby
continued to increase until the date of his death, which occurred at Madeley Court in 1717.
His sons were too young at the time to carry on the business which he had so successfully started,
and several portions of the works were sold at a serious sacrifice.  But when the sons had
grown up to manhood, they too entered upon the business of iron-founding; and Abraham Darby's
son and grandson, both of the same name, largely extended the operations of the firm, until
Coalbrookdale, or, as it was popularly called, "Bedlam," became the principal seat of one of
the most important branches of the iron trade.

There seems to be some doubt as to the precise time when pit-coal was first regularly employed
at Coalbrookdale in smelting the ore.  Mr. Scrivenor says, "pit-coal was first used by Mr.
Abraham Darby, in his furnace at Coalbrookdale, in 1713;" [4] but we can find no confirmation
of this statement in the records of the Company.  It is probable that Mr. Darby used raw coal,
as was done in the Forest of Dean at the same time,[5] in the process of calcining the ore;
but it would appear from his own Memoranda that coke only was used in the process of smelting.
We infer from other circumstances that pit-coal was not employed for the latter purpose until
a considerably later period.  The merit of its introduction, and its successful use in iron-smelting,
is due to Mr. Richard Ford, who had married a daughter of Abraham Darby, and managed the Coalbrookdale
works in 1747.  In a paper by the Rev. Mr. Mason, Woodwardian Professor at Cambridge, given
in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for that year,[6] the first account of its successful employment
is stated as follows:--"Several attempts have been made to run iron-ore with pit-coal:  he
(Mr. Mason) thinks it has not succeeded anywhere, as we have had no account of its being practised;
but Mr. Ford, of Coalbrookdale in Shropshire, from iron-ore and coal, both got in the same
dale, makes iron brittle or tough as he pleases, there being cannon thus cast so soft as to
bear turning like wrought-iron." Most probably, however, it was not until the time of Richard
Reynolds, who succeeded Abraham Darby the second in the management of the works in 1757, that
pit-coal came into large and regular use in the blasting-furnaces as well as the fineries of
Coalbrookdale.

Richard Reynolds was born at Bristol in 1735.  His parents, like the Darbys, belonged to the
Society of Friends, and he was educated in that persuasion.  Being a spirited, lively youth,
the "old Adam" occasionally cropped out in him; and he is even said, when a young man, to have
been so much fired by the heroism of the soldier's character that he felt a strong desire to
embrace a military career; but this feeling soon died out, and he dropped into the sober and
steady rut of the Society.  After serving an apprenticeship in his native town, he was sent
to Coalbrookdale on a mission of business, where he became acquainted with the Darby family,
and shortly after married Hannah, the daughter of Abraham the second.  He then entered upon
the conduct of the iron and coal works at Ketley and Horsehay, where he resided for six years,
removing to Coalbrookdale in 1763, to take charge of the works there, on the death of his father-in-law.

By the exertions and enterprise of the Darbys, the Coalbrookdale Works had become greatly enlarged,
giving remunerative employment to a large and increasing population.  The firm had extended
their operations far beyond the boundaries of the Dale:  they had established foundries at
London, Bristol, and Liverpool, and agencies at Newcastle and Truro for the disposal of steam-engines
and other iron machinery used in the deep mines of those districts.  Watt had not yet perfected
his steam-engine; but there was a considerable demand for pumping-engines of Newcomen's construction,
many of which were made at the Coalbrookdale Works.  The increasing demand for iron gave an
impetus to coal-mining, which in its turn stimulated inventors in their improvement of the
power of the steam-engine; for the coal could not be worked quickly and advantageously unless
the pits could be kept clear of water.  Thus one invention stimulates another; and when the
steam-engine had been perfected by Watt, and enabled powerful-blowing apparatus to be worked
by its agency, we shall find that the production of iron by means of pit-coal being rendered
cheap and expeditious, soon became enormously increased.

We are informed that it was while Richard Reynolds had charge of the Coalbrookdale works that
a further important improvement was effected in the manufacture of iron by pit-coal.  Up to
this time the conversion of crude or cast iron into malleable or bar iron had been effected
entirely by means of charcoal.  The process was carried on in a fire called a finery, somewhat
like that of a smith's forge; the iron being exposed to the blast of powerful bellows, and
in constant contact with the fuel.  In the first process of fusing the ironstone, coal had
been used for some time with increasing success; but the question arose, whether coal might
not also be used with effect in the second or refining stage.  Two of the foremen, named Cranege,
suggested to Mr. Reynolds that this might be performed in what is called a reverberatory furnace,[7]
in which the iron should not mix with the coal, but be heated solely by the flame.  Mr. Reynolds
greatly doubted the feasibility of the operation, but he authorized the Cranege, to make an
experiment of their process, the result of which will be found described in the following extract
of a letter from Mr. Reynolds to Mr. Thomas Goldney of Bristol, dated "Coalbrookdale, 25th
April, 1766":--

.... "I come now to what I think a matter of very great consequence. It is some time since
Thos. Cranege, who works at Bridgenorth Forge, and his brother George, of the Dale, spoke to
me about a notion they had conceived of making bar iron without wood charcoal.  I told them,
consistent with the notion I had adopted in common with all others I had conversed with, that
I thought it impossible, because the vegetable salts in the charcoal being an alkali acted
as an absorbent to the sulphur of the iron, which occasions the red-short quality of the iron,
and pit coal abounding with sulphur would increase it.  This specious answer, which would probably
have appeared conclusive to most, and which indeed was what I really thought, was not so to
them.  They replied that from the observations they had made, and repeated conversations together,
they were both firmly of opinion that the alteration from the quality of pig iron into that
of bar iron was effected merely by heat, and if I would give them leave, they would make a
trial some day.  I consented, but, I confess, without any great expectation of their success;
and so the matter rested some weeks, when it happening that some repairs had to be done at
Bridgenorth, Thomas came up to the Dale, and, with his brother, made a trial in Thos. Tilly's
air-furnace with such success as I thought would justify the erection of a small air-furnace
at the Forge for the more perfectly ascertaining the merit of the invention.  This was accordingly
done, and a trial of it has been made this week, and the success has surpassed the most sanguine
expectations.  The iron put into the furnace was old Bushes, which thou knowest are always
made of hard iron, and the iron drawn out is the toughest I ever saw.  A bar 1 1/4 inch square,
when broke, appears to have very little cold short in it. I look upon it as one of the most
important discoveries ever made, and take the liberty of recommending thee and earnestly requesting
thou wouldst take out a patent for it immediately....  The specification of the invention will
be comprised in a few words, as it will only set forth that a reverberatory furnace being built
of a proper construction, the pig or cast iron is put into it, and without the addition of
anything else than common raw pit coal, is converted into good malleable iron, and, being taken
red-hot from the reverberatory furnace to the forge hammer, is drawn out into bars of various
shapes and sizes, according to the will of the workmen."

Mr. Reynolds's advice was implicitly followed.  A patent was secured in the name of the brothers
Cranege, dated the 17th June, 1766; and the identical words in the above letter were adopted
in the specification as descriptive of the process.  By this method of puddling, as it is termed,
the manufacturer was thenceforward enabled to produce iron in increased quantity at a large
reduction in price; and though the invention of the Craneges was greatly improved upon by Onions,
and subsequently by Cort, there can be no doubt as to the originality and the importance of
their invention.  Mr. Tylor states that he was informed by the son of Richard Reynolds that
the wrought iron made at Coalbrookdale by the Cranege process "was very good, quite tough,
and broke with a long, bright, fibrous fracture:  that made by Cort afterwards was quite different."
[8]  Though Mr. Reynolds's generosity to the Craneges is apparent; in the course which he adopted
in securing for them a patent for the invention in their own names, it does not appear to have
proved of much advantage to them; and they failed to rise above the rank which they occupied
when their valuable discovery was patented.  This, however, was no fault of Richard Reynolds,
but was mainly attributable to the circumstance of other inventions in a great measure superseding
their process, and depriving them of the benefits of their ingenuity.

Among the important improvements introduced by Mr. Reynolds while managing the Coalbrookdale
Works, was the adoption by him for the first time of iron instead of wooden rails in the tram-roads
along which coal and iron were conveyed from one part of the works to another, as well as to
the loading-places along the river Severn.  He observed that the wooden rails soon became decayed,
besides being liable to be broken by the heavy loads passing over them, occasioning much loss
of time, interruption to business, and heavy expenses in repairs.  It occurred to him that
these inconveniences would be obviated by the use of rails of cast-iron; and, having tried
an experiment with them, it answered so well, that in 1767 the whole of the wooden rails were
taken up and replaced by rails of iron.  Thus was the era of iron railroads fairly initiated
at Coalbrookdale, and the example of Mr. Reynolds was shortly after followed on all the tramroads
throughout the Country.

It is also worthy of note that the first iron bridge ever erected was cast and made at the
Coalbrookdale Works--its projection as well as its erection being mainly due to the skill and
enterprise of Abraham Darby the third.  When but a young man, he showed indications of that
sagacity and energy in business which seemed to be hereditary in his family.  One of the first
things he did on arriving at man's estate was to set on foot a scheme for throwing a bridge
across the Severn at Coalbrookdale, at a point where the banks were steep and slippery, to
accommodate the large population which had sprung up along both banks of the river.  There
were now thriving iron, brick, and pottery works established in the parishes of Madeley and
Broseley; and the old ferry on the Severn was found altogether inadequate for ready communication
between one bank and the other.  The want of a bridge had long been felt, and a plan of one
had been prepared during the life time of Abraham Darby the second; but the project was suspended
at his death. When his son came of age, he resolved to take up his father's dropped scheme,
and prosecute it to completion, which he did.  Young Mr. Darby became lord of the manor of
Madeley in 1776, and was the owner of one-half of the ferry in right of his lordship.  He was
so fortunate as to find the owner of the other or Broseley half of the ferry equally anxious
with himself to connect the two banks of the river by means of a bridge.  The necessary powers
were accordingly obtained from Parliament, and a bridge was authorized to be built "of cast-iron,
stone, brick, or timber."  A company was formed for the purpose of carrying out the project,
and the shares were taken by the adjoining owners, Abraham Darby being the principal subscriber.[9]

The construction of a bridge of iron was an entirely new idea.  An attempt had indeed been
made at Lyons, in France, to construct such a bridge more than twenty years before; but it
had entirely failed, and a bridge of timber was erected instead.  It is not known whether the
Coalbrookdale masters had heard of that attempt; but, even if they had, it could have been
of no practical use to them.

Mr. Pritchard, an architect of Shrewsbury, was first employed to prepare a design of the intended
structure, which is still preserved. Although Mr. Pritchard proposed to introduce cast-iron
in the arch of the bridge, which was to be of 120 feet span, it was only as a sort of key,
occupying but a few feet at the crown of the arch.  This sparing use of cast iron indicates
the timidity of the architect in dealing with the new material--his plan exhibiting a desire
to effect a compromise between the tried and the untried in bridge-construction. But the use
of iron to so limited an extent, and in such a part of the structure, was of more than questionable
utility; and if Mr. Pritchard's plan had been adopted, the problem of the iron bridge would
still have remained unsolved.

The plan, however, after having been duly considered, was eventually set aside, and another,
with the entire arch of cast-iron, was prepared under the superintendence of Abraham Darby,
by Mr. Thomas Gregory, his foreman of pattern-makers.  This plan was adopted, and arrangements
were forthwith made for carrying it into effect.  The abutments of the bridge were built in
1777-8, during which the castings were made at the foundry, and the ironwork was successfully
erected in the course of three months.  The bridge was opened for traffic in 1779, and proved
a most serviceable structure.  In 1788 the Society of Arts recognised Mr. Darby's merit as
its designer and erector by presenting him with their gold medal; and the model of the bridge
is still to be seen in the collection of the Society.  Mr. Robert Stephenson has said of the
structure:  "If we consider that the manipulation of cast-iron was then completely in its infancy,
a bridge of such dimensions was doubtless a bold as well as an original undertaking, and the
efficiency of the details is worthy of the boldness of the conception." [10]  Mr. Stephenson
adds that from a defect in the construction the abutments were thrust inwards at the approaches
and the ribs partially fractured. We are, however, informed that this is a mistake, though
it does appear that the apprehension at one time existed that such an accident might possibly
occur.

To remedy the supposed defect, two small land arches were, in the year 1800, substituted for
the stone approach on the Broseley side of the bridge.  While the work was in progress, Mr.
Telford, the well-known engineer, carefully examined the bridge, and thus spoke of its condition
at the time:--"The great improvement of erecting upon a navigable river a bridge of cast-iron
of one arch only was first put in practice near Coalbrookdale.  The bridge was executed in
1777 by Mr. Abraham Darby, and the ironwork is now quite as perfect as when it was first put
up.  Drawings of this bridge have long been before the public, and have been much and justly
admired." [11]  A Coalbrookdale correspondent, writing in May, 1862, informs us that "at the
present time the bridge is undergoing repair; and, special examination having been made, there
is no appearance either that the abutments have moved, or that the ribs have been broken in
the centre or are out of their proper right line.  There has, it is true, been a strain on
the land arches, and on the roadway plates, which, however, the main arch has been able effectually
to resist."

The bridge has now been in profitable daily use for upwards of eighty years, and has during
that time proved of the greatest convenience to the population of the district.  So judicious
was the selection of its site, and so great its utility, that a thriving town of the name of
Ironbridge has grown up around it upon what, at the time of its erection, was a nameless part
of "the waste of the manor of Madeley." And it is probable that the bridge will last for centuries
to come. Thus, also, was the use of iron as an important material in bridge-building fairly
initiated at Coalbrookdale by Abraham Darby, as the use of iron rails was by Richard Reynolds.
We need scarcely add that since the invention and extensive adoption of railway locomotion,
the employment of iron in various forms in railway and bridge structures has rapidly increased,
until iron has come to be regarded as the very sheet-anchor of the railway engineer.

In the mean time the works at Coalbrookdale had become largely extended.  In 1784, when the
government of the day proposed to levy a tax on pit-coal, Richard Reynolds strongly urged upon
Mr. Pitt, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as on Lord Gower, afterwards Marquis of
Stafford, the impolicy of such a tax.  To the latter he represented that large capitals had
been invested in the iron trade, which was with difficulty carried on in the face of the competition
with Swedish and Russian iron.  At Coalbrookdale, sixteen "fire engines," as steam engines
were first called, were then at work, eight blast-furnaces and nine forges, besides the air
furnaces and mills at the foundry, which, with the levels, roads, and more than twenty miles
of iron railways, gave employment to a very large number of people. "The advancement of the
iron trade within these few years," said he, "has been prodigious.  It was thought, and justly,
that the making of pig-iron with pit coal was a great acquisition to the country by saving
the wood and supplying a material to manufactures, the production of which, by the consumption
of all the wood the country produced, was formerly unequal to the demand, and the nail trade,
perhaps the most considerable of any one article of manufactured iron, would have been lost
to this country had it not been found practicable to make nails of iron made with pit coal.
We have now another process to attempt, and that is to make BAR IRON with pit coal; and it
is for that purpose we have made, or rather are making, alterations at Donnington Wood, Ketley,
and elsewhere, which we expect to complete in the present year, but not at a less expense than
twenty thousand pounds, which will be lost to us, and gained by nobody, if this tax is laid
upon our coals." He would not, however, have it understood that he sought for any PROTECTION
for the homemade iron, notwithstanding the lower prices of the foreign article.  "From its
most imperfect state as pig-iron," he observed to Lord Sheffield, "to its highest finish in
the regulating springs of a watch, we have nothing to fear if the importation into each country
should be permitted without duty."  We need scarcely add that the subsequent history of the
iron trade abundantly justified these sagacious anticipations of Richard Reynolds.

He was now far advanced in years.  His business had prospered, his means were ample, and he
sought retirement.  He did not desire to possess great wealth, which in his opinion entailed
such serious responsibilities upon its possessor; and he held that the accumulation of large
property was more to be deprecated than desired.  He therefore determined to give up his shares
in the ironworks at Ketley to his sons William and Joseph, who continued to carry them on.
William was a man of eminent ability, well versed in science, and an excellent mechanic. He
introduced great improvements in the working of the coal and iron mines, employing new machinery
for the purpose, and availing himself with much ingenuity of the discoveries then being made
in the science of chemistry.  He was also an inventor, having been the first to employ (in
1788) inclined planes, consisting of parallel railways, to connect and work canals of different
levels,--an invention erroneously attributed to Fulton, but which the latter himself acknowledged
to belong to William Reynolds.  In the first chapter of his 'Treatise on Canal Navigation,'
published in 1796, Fulton says:--"As local prejudices opposed the Duke of Bridgewater's canal
in the first instance, prejudices equally strong as firmly adhered to the principle on which
it was constructed; and it was thought impossible to lead one through a country, or to work
it to any advantage, unless by locks and boats of at least twenty-five tons, till the genius
of Mr. William Reynolds, of Ketley, in Shropshire, stepped from the accustomed path, constructed
the first inclined plane, and introduced boats of five tons.  This, like the Duke's canal,
was deemed a visionary project, and particularly by his Grace, who was partial to locks; yet
this is also introduced into practice, and will in many instances supersede lock canals." 
Telford, the engineer, also gracefully acknowledged the valuable assistance he received from
William Reynolds in planning the iron aqueduct by means of which the Ellesmere Canal was carried
over the Pont Cysylltau, and in executing the necessary castings for the purpose at the Ketley
foundry.

The future management of his extensive ironworks being thus placed in able hands, Richard Reynolds
finally left Coalbrookdale in 1804, for Bristol, his native town, where he spent the remainder
of his life in works of charity and mercy.  Here we might leave the subject, but cannot refrain
from adding a few concluding words as to the moral characteristics of this truly good man.
Though habitually religious, he was neither demure nor morose, but cheerful, gay, and humorous.
He took great interest in the pleasures of the young people about him, and exerted himself
in all ways to promote their happiness.  He was fond of books, pictures, poetry, and music,
though the indulgence of artistic tastes is not thought becoming in the Society to which he
belonged. His love for the beauties of nature amounted almost to a passion, and when living
at The Bank, near Ketley, it was his great delight in the summer evenings to retire with his
pipe to a rural seat commanding a full view of the Wrekin, the Ercall Woods, with Cader Idris
and the Montgomeryshire hills in the distance, and watch the sun go down in the west in his
glory.  Once in every year he assembled a large party to spend a day with him on the Wrekin,
and amongst those invited were the principal clerks in the company's employment, together with
their families.  At Madeley, near Coalbrookdale, where he bought a property, he laid out, for
the express use of the workmen, extensive walks through the woods on Lincoln Hill, commanding
beautiful views.  They were called "The Workmen's Walks," and were a source of great enjoyment
to them and their families, especially on Sunday afternoons.

When Mr. Reynolds went to London on business, he was accustomed to make a round of visits,
on his way home, to places remarkable for their picturesque beauty, such as Stowe, Hagley Park,
and the Leasowes. After a visit to the latter place in 1767, he thus, in a letter to his friend
John Maccappen, vindicated his love for the beautiful in nature:--"I think it not only lawful
but expedient to cultivate a disposition to be pleased with the beauties of nature, by frequent
indulgences for that purpose.  The mind, by being continually applied to the consideration
of ways and means to gain money, contracts an indifferency if not an insensibility to the profusion
of beauties which the benevolent Creator has impressed upon every part of the material creation.
A sordid love of gold, the possession of what gold can purchase, and the reputation of being
rich, have so depraved the finer feelings of some men, that they pass through the most delightful
grove, filled with the melody of nature, or listen to the murmurings of the brook in the valley,
with as little pleasure and with no more of the vernal delight which Milton describes, than
they feel in passing through some obscure alley in a town."

When in the prime of life, Mr. Reynolds was an excellent rider, performing all his journeys
on horseback.  He used to give a ludicrous account of a race he once ran with another youth,
each having a lady seated on a pillion behind him; Mr. Reynolds reached the goal first, but
when he looked round he found that he had lost his fair companion, who had fallen off in the
race! On another occasion he had a hard run with Lord Thurlow during a visit paid by the latter
to the Ketley Iron-Works.  Lord Thurlow pulled up his horse first, and observed, laughing,
"I think, Mr. Reynolds, this is probably the first time that ever a Lord Chancellor rode a
race with a Quaker!" But a stranger rencontre was one which befel Mr. Reynolds on Blackheath.
Though he declined Government orders for cannon, he seems to have had a secret hankering after
the "pomp and circumstance" of military life.  At all event's he was present on Blackheath
one day when George III. was reviewing some troops.  Mr. Reynold's horse, an old trooper, no
sooner heard the sound of the trumpet than he started off at full speed, and made directly
for the group of officers before whom the troops were defiling.  Great was the surprise of
the King when he saw the Quaker draw up alongside of him, but still greater, perhaps, was the
confusion of the Quaker at finding himself in such company.

During the later years of his life, while living at Bristol, his hand was in every good work;
and it was often felt where it was not seen. For he carefully avoided ostentation, and preferred
doing his good in secret.  He strongly disapproved of making charitable bequests by will, which
he observed in many cases to have been the foundation of enormous abuses, but held it to be
the duty of each man to do all the possible good that he could during his lifetime.  Many were
the instances of his princely, though at the time unknown, munificence.  Unwilling to be recognised
as the giver of large sums, he employed agents to dispense his anonymous benefactions.  He
thus sent 20,000L. to London to be distributed during the distress of 1795.  He had four almoners
constantly employed in Bristol, finding out cases of distress, relieving them, and presenting
their accounts to him weekly, with details of the cases relieved.  He searched the debtors'
prisons, and where, as often happened, deserving but unfortunate men were found confined for
debt, he paid the claims against them and procured their release.  Such a man could not fail
to be followed with blessings and gratitude; but these he sought to direct to the Giver of
all Good.  "My talent," said he to a friend, "is the meanest of all talents--a little sordid
dust; but as the man in the parable who had but one talent was held accountable, I also am
accountable for the talent that I possess, humble as it is, to the great Lord of all."  On
one occasion the case of a poor orphan boy was submitted to him, whose parents, both dying
young, had left him destitute, on which Mr. Reynolds generously offered to place a sum in the
names of trustees for his education and maintenance until he could be apprenticed to a business.
The lady who represented the case was so overpowered by the munificence of the act that she
burst into tears, and, struggling to express her gratitude, concluded with--"and when the dear
child is old enough, I will teach him to thank his benefactor."  "Thou must teach him to look
higher," interrupted Reynolds:  "Do we thank the clouds for rain? When the child grows up,
teach him to thank Him who sendeth both the clouds and the rain."  Reynolds himself deplored
his infirmity of temper, which was by nature hasty; and, as his benevolence was known, and
appeals were made to him at all times, seasonable and unseasonable, he sometimes met them with
a sharp word, which, however, he had scarcely uttered before he repented of it:  and he is
known to have followed a poor woman to her home and ask forgiveness for having spoken hastily
in answer to her application for help.

This "great good man" died on the 10th of September, 1816, in the 81st year of his age.  At
his funeral the poor of Bristol were the chief mourners.  The children of the benevolent societies
which he had munificently supported during his lifetime, and some of which he had founded,
followed his body to the grave.  The procession was joined by the clergy and ministers of all
denominations, and by men of all classes and persuasions.  And thus was Richard Reynolds laid
to his rest, leaving behind him a name full of good odour, which will long be held in grateful
remembrance by the inhabitants of Bristol.

[1] Dr. PLOT, Natural History of Staffordshire, 2nd ed. 1686, p. 128.

[2] JOSHUA GEE, The Trade and Navigation of Great Britain considered, 1731.

[3] When a bill was introduced into Parliament in 1750 with the object of encouraging the importation
of iron from our American colonies, the Sheffield tanners petitioned against it, on the ground
that, if it passed, English iron would be undersold; many forges would consequently be discontinued;
in which case the timber used for fuel would remain uncut, and the tanners would thereby be
deprived of bark for the purposes of their trade!

[4] History of the Iron Trade, p. 56.

[5] See Mr. Powle's account of the Iron Works in the Forest of Dean (1677-8), in the Philosophical
Transactions, vol. ii. p. 418, where he says, "After they have pounded their ore, their first
work is to calcine it, which is done in kilns, much after the fashion of ordinary lime-kilns,
These they fill up to the top with coal and ore, stratum super stratum, until it be full; and
so setting fire to the bottom, they let it burn till the coal be wasted, and then renew the
kilns with fresh ore and coal, in the same manner as before.  This is done without fusion of
the metal, and serves to consume the more drossy parts of the ore and to make it friable."
The writer then describes the process of smelting the ore mixed with cinder in the furnaces,
where, he says, the fuel is "always of charcoal."  "Several attempts," he adds, "have been
made to introduce the use of sea-coal in these works instead of charcoal, the former being
to be had at an easier rate than the latter; but hitherto they have proved ineffectual, the
workmen finding by experience that a sea-coal fire, how vehement soever, will not penetrate
the most fixed parts of the ore, and so leaves much of the metal unmelted"

[6] Phil. Trans. vol. xliv. 305.

[7] Reverberatory, so called because the flame or current of heated gases from the fuel is
caused to be reverberated or reflected down upon the substance under operation before passing
into the chimney.  It is curious that Rovenson, in his Treatise of Metallica of 1613, describes
a reverberatory furnace in which iron was to be smelted by pit-coal, though it does not appear
that he succeeded in perfecting his invention.  Dr. Percy, in his excellent work on Metallurgy,
thus describes a reverberatory furnace:--"It consists essentially of three parts--a fireplace
at one end, a stack or chimney at the other, and a bed between both on which the matter is
heated.  The fireplace is separated from the bed by a low partition wall called the fire-bridge,
and both are covered by an arched roof which rises from the end wall of the fireplace and gradually
dips toward the furthest end of the bed connected with the stack.  On one or both sides of
the bed, or at the end near the stack, may be openings through which the ore spread over the
surface of the bed may be stirred about and exposed to the action of the air.  The matter is
heated in such a furnace by flame, and is kept from contact with the solid fuel.  The flame
in its course from the fireplace to the stack is reflected downwards or REVERBERATED on the
matter beneath, whence the name REVERBERATORY furnace."

[8] Mr. TYLOR on Metal Work--Reports on the Paris Exhibition of 1855. Part II. 182.  We are
informed by Mr. Reynolds of Coed-du, a grandson of Richard Reynolds, that "on further trials
many difficulties arose. The bottoms of the furnaces were destroyed by the heat, and the quality
of the iron varied.  Still, by a letter dated May, 1767, it appears there had been sold of
iron made in the new way to the value of 247L. 14s. 6d."

[9] Among the other subscribers were the Rev. Mr. Harris, Mr. Jennings, and Mr. John Wilkinson,
an active promoter of the scheme, who gave the company the benefit of his skill and experience
when it was determined to construct the bridge of iron.  For an account of John Wilkinson see
Lives of the Engineers, vol. ii. 337, 356.  In the description of the first iron bridge given
in that work we have, it appears, attributed rather more credit to Mr. Wilkinson than he is
entitled to.  Mr. Darby was the most active promoter of the scheme, and had the principal share
in the design.  Wilkinson nevertheless was a man of great energy and originality.  Besides
being the builder of the first iron ship, he was the first to invent, for James Watt, a machine
that would bore a tolerably true cylinder.  He afterwards established iron works in France,
and Arthur Young says, that "until that well-known English manufacturer arrived, the French
knew nothing of the art of casting cannon solid and then boring them" (Travels in France, 4to.
ed. London, 1792, p.90).  Yet England had borrowed her first cannon-maker from France in the
person of Peter Baude, as described in chap. iii. Wilkinson is also said to have invented a
kind of hot-blast, in respect of which various witnesses gave evidence on the trial of Neilson's
patent in 1839; but the invention does not appear to have been perfected by him.

[10] Encyclopaedia Britannica, 8th ed. Art.

[11] PLYMLEY, General View of the Agriculture of Shropshire. "Iron Bridges."

CHAPTER VI.

INVENTION OF CAST STEEL--BENJAMIN HUNTSMAN.

"It may be averred that as certainly as the age of iron superseded that of bronze, so will
the age of steel reign triumphant over iron."--HENRY BESSEMER.

"Aujourd'hui la revolution que devait amener en Grande-Bretagne la memorable decouverte de
Benjamin Huntsman est tout a fait accomplie, et chaque jour les consequetces sen feront plus
vivement sentir sur le confinent."--LE PLAY, Sur la Fabrication de l' Acier en Yorkshire.

Iron, besides being used in various forms as bar and cast iron, is also used in various forms
as bar and cast steel; and it is principally because of its many admirable qualities in these
latter forms that iron maintains its supremacy over all the other metals.

The process of converting iron into steel had long been known among the Eastern nations before
it was introduced into Europe.  The Hindoos were especially skilled in the art of making steel,
as indeed they are to this day; and it is supposed that the tools with which the Egyptians
covered their obelisks and temples of porphyry and syenite with hieroglyphics were made of
Indian steel, as probably no other metal was capable of executing such work.  The art seems
to have been well known in Germany in the Middle Ages, and the process is on the whole very
faithfully described by Agricola in his great work on Metallurgy.[1] England then produced
very little steel, and was mainly dependent for its supply of the article upon the continental
makers.

From an early period Sheffield became distinguished for its manufacture of iron and steel into
various useful articles.  We find it mentioned in the thirteenth century as a place where the
best arrowheads were made,--the Earl of Richmond owing his success at the battle of Bosworth
partly to their superior length, sharpness, and finish.  The manufactures of the town became
of a more pacific character in the following centuries, during which knives, tools, and implements
of husbandry became the leading articles.

Chaucer's reference to the 'Sheffield thwytel' (or case-knife) in his Canterbury Tales, written
about the end of the fourteenth century, shows that the place had then become known for its
manufacture of knives.  In 1575 we find the Earl of Shrewsbury presenting to his friend Lord
Burleigh "a case of Hallamshire whittells, being such fruites as his pore cuntrey affordeth
with fame throughout the realme." Fuller afterwards speaks of the Sheffield knives as "for
common use of the country people," and he cites an instance of a knave who cozened him out
of fourpence for one when it was only worth a penny.

In 1600 Sheffield became celebrated for its tobacco-boxes and Jew's-harps.  The town was as
yet of small size and population; for when a survey of it was made in 1615 it was found to
contain not more than 2207 householders, of whom one-third, or 725, were "not able to live
without the charity of their neighbours:  these are all Begging poor." [2]  It must, however,
have continued its manufacture of knives; for we find that the knife with which Felton stabbed
the Duke of Buckingham at Portsmouth in 1628 was traced to Sheffield.  The knife was left sticking
in the duke's body, and when examined was found to bear the Sheffield corporation mark.  It
was ultimately ascertained to have been made by one Wild, a cutler, who had sold the knife
for tenpence to Felton when recruiting in the town.  At a still later period, the manufacture
of clasp or spring knives was introduced into Sheffield by Flemish workmen.  Harrison says
this trade was begun in 1650.  The clasp-knife was commonly known in the North as a jocteleg.
Hence Burns, describing the famous article treasured by Captain Grose the antiquarian, says that--

  "It was a faulding jocteleq,
  Or lang-kail gully;"

the word being merely a corruption of Jacques de Liege, a famous foreign cutler, whose knives
were as well known throughout Europe as those of Rogers or Mappin are now.  Scythes and sickles
formed other branches of manufacture introduced by the Flemish artisans, the makers of the
former principally living in the parish of Norton, those of the latter in Eckington.

Many improvements were introduced from time to time in the material of which these articles
were made.  Instead of importing the German steel, as it was called, the Sheffield manufacturers
began to make it themselves, principally from Dannemora iron imported from Sweden.  The first
English manufacturer of the article was one Crowley, a Newcastle man; and the Sheffield makers
shortly followed his example.  We may here briefly state that the ordinary method of preparing
this valuable material of manufactures is by exposing iron bars, placed in contact with roughly-granulated
charcoal, to an intense heat,--the process lasting for about a week, more or less, according
to the degree of carbonization required.  By this means, what is called BLISTERED STEEL is
produced, and it furnishes the material out of which razors, files, knives, swords, and various
articles of hardware are manufactured.  A further process is the manufacture of the metal thus
treated into SHEAR STEEL, by exposing a fasciculus of the blistered steel rods, with sand scattered
over them for the purposes of a flux, to the heat of a wind-furnace until the whole mass becomes
of a welding heat, when it is taken from the fire and drawn out under a forge-hammer,--the
process of welding being repeated, after which the steel is reduced to the required sizes.
The article called FAGGOT steel is made after a somewhat similar process.

But the most valuable form in which steel is now used in the manufactures of Sheffield is that
of cast-steel, in which iron is presented in perhaps its very highest state of perfection.
Cast-steel consists of iron united to carbon in an elastic state together with a small portion
of oxygen; whereas crude or pig iron consists of iron combined with carbon in a material state.[3]
Chief merits of cast-steel consist in its possessing great cohesion and closeness of grain,
with an astonishing degree of tenacity and flexibility,--qualities which render it of the highest
value in all kinds of tools and instruments where durability, polish, and fineness of edge
are essential requisites.  It is to this material that we are mainly indebted for the exquisite
cutting instrument of the surgeon, the chisel of the sculptor, the steel plate on which the
engraver practises his art, the cutting tools employed in the various processes of skilled
handicraft, down to the common saw or the axe used by the backwoodsman in levelling the primeval
forest.

The invention of cast-steel is due to Benjamin Huntsman, of Attercliffe, near Sheffield.  M.
Le Play, Professor of Metallurgy in the Royal School of Mines of France, after making careful
inquiry and weighing all the evidence on the subject, arrived at the conclusion that the invention
fairly belongs to Huntsman.  The French professor speaks of it as a "memorable discovery,"
made and applied with admirable perseverance; and he claims for its inventor the distinguished
merit of advancing the steel manufactures of Yorkshire to the first rank, and powerfully contributing
to the establishment on a firm foundation of the industrial and commercial supremacy of Great
Britain.  It is remarkable that a French writer should have been among the first to direct
public attention to the merits of this inventor, and to have first published the few facts
known as to his history in a French Government Report,--showing the neglect which men of this
class have heretofore received at home, and the much greater esteem in which they are held
by scientific foreigners.[4]  Le Play, in his enthusiastic admiration of the discoverer of
so potent a metal as cast-steel, paid a visit to Huntsman's grave in Atterclifle Churchyard,
near Sheffield, and from the inscription on his tombstone recites the facts of his birth, his
death, and his brief history.  With the assistance of his descendants, we are now enabled to
add the following record of the life and labours of this remarkable but almost forgotten man.

Benjamin Huntsman was born in Lincolnshire in the year 1704.  His parents were of German extraction,
and had settled in this country only a few years previous to his birth.  The boy being of an
ingenious turn, was bred to a mechanical calling; and becoming celebrated for his expertness
in repairing clocks, he eventually set up in business as a clock maker and mender in the town
of Doncaster.  He also undertook various other kinds of metal work, such as the making and
repairing of locks, smoke-jacks, roasting-jacks, and other articles requiring mechanical skill.
He was remarkably shrewd, observant, thoughtful, and practical; so much so that he came to
be regarded as the "wise man" of his neighbourhood, and was not only consulted as to the repairs
of machinery, but also of the human frame.  He practised surgery with dexterity, though after
an empirical fashion, and was held in especial esteem as an oculist.  His success was such
that his advice was sought in many surgical diseases, and he was always ready to give it, but
declined receiving any payment in return.

In the exercise of his mechanical calling, he introduced several improved tools, but was much
hindered by the inferior quality of the metal supplied to him, which was common German steel.
He also experienced considerable difficulty in finding a material suitable for the springs
and pendulums of his clocks.  These circumstances induced him to turn his attention to the
making of a better kind of steel than was then procurable, for the purposes of his trade. 
His first experiments were conducted at Doncaster;[5] but as fuel was difficult to be had at
that place, he determined, for greater convenience, to remove to the neighbourhood of Sheffield,
which he did in 1740.  He first settled at Handsworth, a few miles to the south of that town,
and there pursued his investigations in secret.  Unfortunately, no records have been preserved
of the methods which he adopted in overcoming the difficulties he had necessarily to encounter.
That they must have been great is certain, for the process of manufacturing cast-steel of a
first-rate quality even at this day is of a most elaborate and delicate character, requiring
to be carefully watched in its various stages.  He had not only to discover the fuel and flux
suitable for his purpose, but to build such a furnace and make such a crucible as should sustain
a heat more intense than any then known in metallurgy.  Ingot-moulds had not yet been cast,
nor were there hoops and wedges made that would hold them together, nor, in short, were any
of those materials at his disposal which are now so familiar at every melting-furnace.

Huntsman's experiments extended over many years before the desired result was achieved.  Long
after his death, the memorials of the numerous failures through which he toilsomely worked
his way to success, were brought to light in the shape of many hundredweights of steel, found
buried in the earth in different places about his manufactory.  From the number of these wrecks
of early experiments, it is clear that he had worked continuously upon his grand idea of purifying
the raw steel then in use, by melting it with fluxes at an intense heat in closed earthen crucibles.
The buried masses were found in various stages of failure, arising from imperfect melting,
breaking of crucibles, and bad fluxes; and had been hid away as so much spoiled steel of which
nothing could be made.  At last his perseverance was rewarded, and his invention perfected;
and though a hundred years have passed since Huntsman's discovery, the description of fuel
(coke) which he first applied for the purpose of melting the steel, and the crucibles and furnaces
which he used, are for the most part similar to those in use at the present day.  Although
the making of cast-steel is conducted with greater economy and dexterity, owing to increased
experience, it is questionable whether any maker has since been able to surpass the quality
of Huntsman's manufacture.

The process of making cast-steel, as invented by Benjamin Huntsman, may be thus summarily described.
The melting is conducted in clay pots or crucibles manufactured for the purpose, capable of
holding about 34 lbs. each.  Ten or twelve of such crucibles are placed in a melting-furnace
similar to that used by brass founders; and when the furnace and pots are at a white heat,
to which they are raised by a coke fire, they are charged with bar steel reduced to a certain
degree of hardness, and broken into pieces of about a pound each.  When the pots are all thus
charged with steel, lids are placed over them, the furnace is filled with coke, and the cover
put down.  Under the intense heat to which the metal is exposed, it undergoes an apparent ebullition.
When the furnace requires feeding, the workmen take the opportunity of lifting the lid of each
crucible and judging how far the process has advanced.  After about three hours' exposure to
the heat, the metal is ready for "teeming."  The completion of the melting process is known
by the subsidence of all ebullition, and by the clear surface of the melted metal, which is
of a dazzling brilliancy like the sun when looked at with the naked eye on a clear day.  The
pots are then lifted out of their place, and the liquid steel is poured into ingots of the
shape and size required.  The pots are replaced, filled again, and the process is repeated;
the red-hot pots thus serving for three successive charges, after which they are rejected as
useless.

When Huntsman had perfected his invention, it would naturally occur to him that the new metal
might be employed for other purposes besides clock-springs and pendulums.  The business of
clock-making was then of a very limited character, and it could scarcely have been worth his
while to pursue so extensive and costly a series of experiments merely to supply the requirements
of that trade.  It is more probable that at an early stage of his investigations he shrewdly
foresaw the extensive uses to which cast-steel might be applied in the manufacture of tools
and cutlery of a superior kind; and we accordingly find him early endeavouring to persuade
the manufacturers of Sheffield to employ it in the manufacture of knives and razors.  But the
cutlers obstinately refused to work a material so much harder than that which they had been
accustomed to use; and for a time he gave up all hopes of creating a demand in that quarter.
Foiled in his endeavours to sell his steel at home, Huntsman turned his attention to foreign
markets; and he soon found he could readily sell abroad all that he could make.  The merit
of employing cast-steel for general purposes belongs to the French, always so quick to appreciate
the advantages of any new discovery, and for a time the whole of the cast-steel that Huntsman
could manufacture was exported to France.  When he had fairly established his business with
that country, the Sheffield cutlers became alarmed at the reputation which cast-steel was acquiring
abroad; and when they heard of the preference displayed by English as well as French consumers
for the cutlery manufactured of that metal, they readily apprehended the serious consequences
that must necessarily result to their own trade if cast-steel came into general use.  They
then appointed a deputation to wait upon Sir George Savile, one of the members for the county
of York, and requested him to use his influence with the government to obtain an order to prohibit
the exportation of cast-steel.  But on learning from the deputation that the Sheffield manufacturers
themselves would not make use of the new steel, he positively declined to comply with their
request.  It was indeed fortunate for the interests of the town that the object of the deputation
was defeated, for at that time Mr. Huntsman had very pressing and favourable offers from some
spirited manufacturers in Birmingham to remove his furnaces to that place; and it is extremely
probable that had the business of cast-steel making become established there, one of the most
important and lucrative branches of its trade would have been lost to the town of Sheffield.

The Sheffield makers were therefore under the necessity of using the cast-steel, if they would
retain their trade in cutlery against France; and Huntsman's home trade rapidly increased.
And then began the efforts of the Sheffield men to wrest his secret from him.  For Huntsman
had not taken out any patent for his invention, his only protection being in preserving his
process as much a mystery as possible.  All the workmen employed by him were pledged to inviolable
secrecy; strangers were carefully excluded from the works; and the whole of the steel made
was melted during the night.  There were many speculations abroad as to Huntsman's process.
It was generally believed that his secret consisted in the flux which he employed to make the
metal melt more readily; and it leaked out amongst the workmen that he used broken bottles
for the purpose.  Some of the manufacturers, who by prying and bribing got an inkling of the
process, followed Huntsman implicitly in this respect; and they would not allow their own workmen
to flux the pots lest they also should obtain possession of the secret.  But it turned out
eventually that no such flux was necessary, and the practice has long since been discontinued.
A Frenchman named Jars, frequently quoted by Le Play in his account of the manufacture of steel
in Yorkshire,[6] paid a visit to Sheffield towards the end of last century, and described the
process so far as he was permitted to examine it.  According to his statement all kinds of
fragments of broken steel were used; but this is corrected by Le Play, who states that only
the best bar steel manufactured of Dannemora iron was employed.  Jars adds that "the steel
is put into the crucible with A FLUX, the composition of which is kept secret;" and he states
that the time then occupied in the conversion was five hours.

It is said that the person who first succeeded in copying Huntsman's process was an ironfounder
named Walker, who carried on his business at Greenside near Sheffield, and it was certainly
there that the making of cast-steel was next begun.  Walker adopted the "ruse" of disguising
himself as a tramp, and, feigning great distress and abject poverty, he appeared shivering
at the door of Huntsman's foundry late one night when the workmen were about to begin their
labours at steel-casting, and asked for admission to warm himself by the furnace fire.  The
workmen's hearts were moved, and they permitted him to enter.  We have the above facts from
the descendants of the Huntsman family; but we add the traditional story preserved in the neighbourhood,
as given in a well-known book on metallurgy:--

"One cold winter's night, while the snow was falling in heavy flakes, and the manufactory threw
its red glared light over the neighbourhood, a person of the most abject appearance presented
himself at the entrance, praying for permission to share the warmth and shelter which it afforded.
The humane workmen found the appeal irresistible, and the apparent beggar was permitted to
take up his quarters in a warm corner of the building.  A careful scrutiny would have discovered
little real sleep in the drowsiness which seemed to overtake the stranger; for he eagerly watched
every movement of the workmen while they went through the operations of the newly discovered
process.  He observed, first of all, that bars of blistered steel were broken into small pieces,
two or three inches in length, and placed in crucibles of fire clay.  When nearly full, a little
green glass broken into small fragments was spread over the top, and the whole covered over
with a closely-fitting cover.  The crucibles were then placed in a furnace previously prepared
for them, and after a lapse of from three to four hours, during which the crucibles were examined
from time to time to see that the metal was thoroughly melted and incorporated, the workmen
proceeded to lift the crucible from its place on the furnace by means of tongs, and its molten
contents, blazing, sparkling, and spurting, were poured into a mould of cast-iron previously
prepared:  here it was suffered to cool, while the crucibles were again filled, and the process
repeated.  When cool, the mould was unscrewed, and a bar of cast-steel presented itself, which
only required the aid of the hammerman to form a finished bar of cast-steel.  How the unauthorized
spectator of these operations effected his escape without detection tradition does not say;
but it tells us that, before many months had passed, the Huntsman manufactory was not the only
one where cast-steel was produced." [7]

However the facts may be, the discovery of the elder Huntsman proved of the greatest advantage
to Sheffield; for there is scarcely a civilized country where Sheffield steel is not largely
used, either in its most highly finished forms of cutlery, or as the raw material for some
home manufacture.  In the mean time the demand for Huntsman's steel steadily increased, and
in 1770, for the purpose of obtaining greater scope for his operations, he removed to a large
new manufactory which he erected at Attercliffe, a little to the north of Sheffield, more conveniently
situated for business purposes.  There he continued to flourish for six years more, making
steel and practising benevolence; for, like the Darbys and Reynoldses of Coalbrookdale, he
was a worthy and highly respected member of the Society of Friends.  He was well versed in
the science of his day, and skilled in chemistry, which doubtless proved of great advantage
to him in pursuing his experiments in metallurgy.[8] That he was possessed of great perseverance
will be obvious from the difficulties he encountered and overcame in perfecting his valuable
invention.  He was, however, like many persons of strong original character, eccentric in his
habits and reserved in his manner.  The Royal Society wished to enrol him as a member in acknowledgment
of the high merit of his discovery of cast-steel, as well as because of his skill in practical
chemistry; but as this would have drawn him in some measure from his seclusion, and was also,
as he imagined, opposed to the principles of the Society to which he belonged, he declined
the honour.  Mr. Huntsman died in 1776, in his seventy-second year, and was buried in the churchyard
at Attercliffe, where a gravestone with an inscription marks his resting-place.

His son continued to carry on the business, and largely extended its operations.  The Huntsman
mark became known throughout the civilised world.  Le Play the French Professor of Metallurgy,
in his Memoire of 1846, still speaks of the cast-steel bearing the mark of "Huntsman and Marshall"
as the best that is made, and he adds, "the buyer of this article, who pays a higher price
for it than for other sorts, is not acting merely in the blind spirit of routine, but pays
a logical and well-deserved homage to all the material and moral qualities of which the true
Huntsman mark has been the guarantee for a century." [9]

Many other large firms now compete for their share of the trade; and the extent to which it
has grown, the number of furnaces constantly at work, and the quantity of steel cast into ingots,
to be tilted or rolled for the various purposes to which it is applied, have rendered Sheffield
the greatest laboratory in the world of this valuable material.  Of the total quantity of cast-steel
manufactured in England, not less than five-sixths are produced there; and the facilities for
experiment and adaptation on the spot have enabled the Sheffield steel-makers to keep the lead
in the manufacture, and surpass all others in the perfection to which they have carried this
important branch of our national industry.  It is indeed a remarkable fact that this very town,
which was formerly indebted to Styria for the steel used in its manufactures, now exports a
material of its own conversion to the Austrian forges and other places on the Continent from
which it was before accustomed to draw its own supplies.

Among the improved processes invented of late years for the manufacture of steel are those
of Heath, Mushet, and Bessemer.  The last promises to effect before long an entire revolution
in the iron and steel trade. By it the crude metal is converted by one simple process, directly
as it comes from the blast-furnace.  This is effected by driving through it, while still in
a molten state, several streams of atmospheric air, on which the carbon of the crude iron unites
with the oxygen of the atmosphere, the temperature is greatly raised, and a violent ebullition
takes place, during which, if the process be continued, that part of the carbon which appears
to be mechanically mixed and diffused through the crude iron is entirely consumed.  The metal
becomes thoroughly cleansed, the slag is ejected and removed, while the sulphur and other volatile
matters are driven off; the result being an ingot of malleable iron of the quality of charcoal
iron.  An important feature in the process is, that by stopping it at a particular stage, immediately
following the boil, before the whole of the carbon has been abstracted by the oxygen, the crude
iron will be found to have passed into the condition of cast-steel of ordinary quality.  By
continuing the process, the metal losing its carbon, it passes from hard to soft steel, thence
to steely iron, and last of all to very soft iron; so that by interrupting the process at any
stage, or continuing it to the end, almost any quality of iron and steel may be obtained. 
One of the most valuable forms of the metal is described by Mr. Bessemer as "semi-steel," being
in hardness about midway between ordinary cast-steel and soft malleable iron.  The Bessemer
processes are now in full operation in England as well as abroad, both for converting crude
into malleable iron, and for producing steel; and the results are expected to prove of the
greatest practical utility in all cases where iron and steel are extensively employed.

Yet, like every other invention, this of Mr. Bessemer had long been dreamt of, if not really
made.  We are informed in Warner's Tour through the Northern.  Counties of England, published
at Bath in 1801, that a Mr. Reed of Whitehaven had succeeded at that early period in making
steel direct from the ore; and Mr. Mushet clearly alludes to the process in his "Papers on
Iron and Steel."  Nevertheless, Mr. Bessemer is entitled to the merit of working out the idea,
and bringing the process to perfection, by his great skill and indomitable perseverance. In
the Heath process, carburet of manganese is employed to aid the conversion of iron into steel,
while it also confers on the metal the property of welding and working more soundly under the
hammer--a fact discovered by Mr. Heath while residing in India.  Mr. Mushet's process is of
a similar character.  Another inventor, Major Uchatius, an Austrian engineer, granulates crude
iron while in a molten state by pouring it into water, and then subjecting it to the process
of conversion.  Some of the manufacturers still affect secrecy in their operations; but as
one of the Sanderson firm--famous for the excellence of their steel--remarked to a visitor
when showing him over their works, "the great secret is to have the courage to be honest--a
spirit to purchase the best material, and the means and disposition to do justice to it in
the manufacture."

It remains to be added, that much of the success of the Sheffield manufactures is attributable
to the practical skill of the workmen, who have profited by the accumulated experience treasured
up by their class through many generations.  The results of the innumerable experiments conducted
before their eyes have issued in a most valuable though unwritten code of practice, the details
of which are known only to themselves.  They are also a most laborious class; and Le Play says
of them, when alluding to the fact of a single workman superintending the operations of three
steel-casting furnaces--"I have found nowhere in Europe, except in England, workmen able for
an entire day, without any interval of rest, to undergo such toilsome and exhausting labour
as that performed by these Sheffield workmen."

[1] AGRICOLA, De Re Metallica.  Basle, 1621.

[2] The Rev. JOSEPH HUNTER, History of Hallamshire.

[3] MUSHET, Papers On Iron and Steel.

[4] M. Le Play's two elaborate and admirable reports on the manufacture of steel, published
in the Annales des Mines, vols. iii. and ix., 4th series, are unique of their kind, and have
as yet no counterpart in English literature.  They are respectively entitled 'Memoire sur la
Fabrication de l'Acier en Yorkshire,' and 'Memoire sur le Fabrication et le Commerce des Fers
a Acier dans le Nord de l'Europe.'

[5] There are several clocks still in existence in the neighbourhood of Doncaster made by Benjamin
Huntsman; and there is one in the possession of his grandson, with a pendulum made of cast-steel.
The manufacture of a pendulum of such a material at that early date is certainly curious; its
still perfect spring and elasticity showing the scrupulous care with which it had been made.

[7] The Useful Metals and their Alloys (p. 348), an excellent little work, in which the process
of cast-steel making will be found fully described.

[8] We are informed that a mirror is still preserved at Attercliffe, made by Huntsman in the
days of his early experiments.

[9] Annales des Mines, vol. ix., 4th Series, 266.

CHAPTER VII.

THE INVENTIONS OF HENRY CORT.

"I have always found it in mine own experience an easier matter to devise manie and profitable
inventions, than to dispose of one of them to the good of the author himself."--Sir Hugh Platt,
1589.

Henry Cort was born in 1740 at Lancaster, where his father carried on the trade of a builder
and brickmaker.  Nothing is known as to Henry's early history; but he seems to have raised
himself by his own efforts to a respectable position.  In 1765 we find him established in Surrey
Street, Strand, carrying on the business of a navy agent, in which he is said to have realized
considerable profits.  It was while conducting this business that he became aware of the inferiority
of British iron compared with that obtained from foreign countries.  The English wrought iron
was considered so bad that it was prohibited from all government supplies, while the cast iron
was considered of too brittle a nature to be suited for general use.[1]  Indeed the Russian
government became so persuaded that the English nation could not carry on their manufactures
without Russian iron, that in 1770 they ordered the price to be raised from 70 and 80 copecs
per pood to 200 and 220 copecs per pood.[2]

Such being the case, Cort's attention became directed to the subject in connection with the
supply of iron to the Navy, and he entered on a series of experiments with the object of improving
the manufacture of English iron.  What the particular experiments were, and by what steps he
arrived at results of so much importance to the British iron trade, no one can now tell.  All
that is known is, that about the year 1775 he relinquished his business as a navy agent, and
took a lease of certain premises at Fontley, near Fareham, at the north-western corner of Portsmouth
Harbour, where he erected a forge and an iron mill.  He was afterwards joined in partnership
by Samuel Jellicoe (son of Adam Jellicoe, then Deputy-Paymaster of Seamen's Wages), which turned
out, as will shortly appear, a most unfortunate connection for Cort.

As in the case of other inventions, Cort took up the manufacture of iron at the point to which
his predecessors had brought it, carrying it still further, and improving upon their processes.
We may here briefly recite the steps by which the manufacture of bar-iron by means of pit-coal
had up to this time been advanced.  In 1747, Mr. Ford succeeded at Coalbrookdale in smelting
iron ore with pit-coal, after which it was refined in the usual way by means of coke and charcoal.
In 1762, Dr. Roebuck (hereafter to be referred to) took out a patent for melting the cast or
pig iron in a hearth heated with pit-coal by the blast of bellows, and then working the iron
until it was reduced to nature, or metallized, as it was termed; after which it was exposed
to the action of a hollow pit-coal fire urged by a blast, until it was reduced to a loop and
drawn out into bar-iron under a common forge-hammer.  Peter Onions of Merthyr Tydvil, in 1783,
carried the manufacture a stage further, as described by him in his patent of that year.  Having
charged his furnace ("bound with iron work and well annealed") with pig or fused cast iron
from the smelting furnace, it was closed up and the doors were luted with sand.  The fire was
urged by a blast admitted underneath, apparently for the purpose of keeping up the combustion
of the fuel on the grate.  Thus Onions' furnace was of the nature of a puddling furnace, the
fire of which was urged by a blast.  The fire was to be kept up until the metal became less
fluid, and "thickened into a kind of froth, which the workman, by opening the door, must turn
and stir with a bar or other iron instrument, and then close the aperture again, applying the
blast and fire until there was a ferment in the metal."  The patent further describes that
"as the workman stirs the metal," the scoriae will separate, "and the particles of iron will
adhere, which particles the workman must collect or gather into a mass or lump."  This mass
or lump was then to be raised to a white heat, and forged into malleable iron at the forge-hammer.

Such was the stage of advance reached in the manufacture of bar-iron, when Henry Cort published
his patents in 1783 and 1784.  In dispensing with a blast, he had been anticipated by the Craneges,
and in the process of puddling by Onions; but he introduced so many improvements of an original
character, with which he combined the inventions of his predecessors, as to establish quite
a new era in the history of the iron manufacture, and, in the course of a few years, to raise
it to the highest state of prosperity.  As early as 1786, Lord Sheffield recognised the great
national importance of Cort's improvements in the following words:--"If Mr. Cort's very ingenious
and meritorious improvements in the art of making and working iron, the steam-engine of Boulton
and Watt, and Lord Dundonald's discovery of making coke at half the present price, should all
succeed, it is not asserting too much to say that the result will be more advantageous to Great
Britain than the possession of the thirteen colonies (of America); for it will give the complete
command of the iron trade to this country, with its vast advantages to navigation."  It is
scarcely necessary here to point out how completely the anticipations of Lord Sheffield have
been fulfilled, sanguine though they might appear to be when uttered some seventy-six years ago.[3]

We will endeavour as briefly as possible to point out the important character of Mr. Cort's
improvements, as embodied in his two patents of 1783 and 1784.  In the first he states that,
after "great study, labour, and expense, in trying a variety of experiments, and making many
discoveries, he had invented and brought to perfection a peculiar method and process of preparing,
welding, and working various sorts of iron, and of reducing the same into uses by machinery:
a furnace, and other apparatus, adapted and applied to the said process."  He first describes
his method of making iron for "large uses," such as shanks, arms, rings, and palms of anchors,
by the method of piling and faggoting, since become generally practised, by laying bars of
iron of suitable lengths, forged on purpose, and tapering so as to be thinner at one end than
the other, laid over one another in the manner of bricks in buildings, so that the ends should
everywhere overlay each other.  The faggots so prepared, to the amount of half a ton more or
less, were then to be put into a common air or balling furnace, and brought to a welding heat,
which was accomplished by his method in a much shorter time than in any hollow fire; and when
the heat was perfect, the faggots were then brought under a forge-hammer of great size and
weight, and welded into a solid mass.  Mr. Cort alleges in the specification that iron for
"larger uses" thus finished, is in all respect's possessed of the highest degree of perfection;
and that the fire in the balling furnace is better suited, from its regularity and penetrating
quality, to give the iron a perfect welding heat throughout its whole mass, without fusing
in any part, than any fire blown by a blast.  Another process employed by Mr. Cort for the
purpose of cleansing the iron and producing a metal of purer grain, was that of working the
faggots by passing them through rollers.  "By this simple process," said he, "all the earthy
particles are pressed out and the iron becomes at once free from dross, and what is usually
called cinder, and is compressed into a fibrous and tough state."  The objection has indeed
been taken to the process of passing the iron through rollers, that the cinder is not so effectually
got rid of as by passing it under a tilt hammer, and that much of it is squeezed into the bar
and remains there, interrupting its fibre and impairing its strength.

It does not appear that there was any novelty in the use of rollers by Cort; for in his first
specification he speaks of them as already well known.[4]  His great merit consisted in apprehending
the value of certain processes, as tested by his own and others' experience, and combining
and applying them in a more effective practical form than had ever been done before.  This
power of apprehending the best methods, and embodying the details in one complete whole, marks
the practical, clear-sighted man, and in certain cases amounts almost to a genius. The merit
of combining the inventions of others in such forms as that they shall work to advantage, is
as great in its way as that of the man who strikes out the inventions themselves, but who,
for want of tact and experience, cannot carry them into practical effect.

It was the same with Cort's second patent, in which he described his method of manufacturing
bar-iron from the ore or from cast-iron.  All the several processes therein described had been
practised before his time; his merit chiefly consisting in the skilful manner in which he combined
and applied them.  Thus, like the Craneges, he employed the reverberatory or air furnace, without
blast, and, like Onions, he worked the fused metal with iron bars until it was brought into
lumps, when it was removed and forged into malleable iron.  Cort, however, carried the process
further, and made it more effectual in all respects.  His method may be thus briefly described:
the bottom of the reverberatory furnace was hollow, so as to contain the fluid metal, introduced
into it by ladles; the heat being kept up by pit-coal or other fuel.  When the furnace was
charged, the doors were closed until the metal was sufficiently fused, when the workman opened
an aperture and worked or stirred about the metal with iron bars, when an ebullition took place,
during the continuance of which a bluish flame was emitted, the carbon of the cast-iron was
burned off, the metal separated from the slag, and the iron, becoming reduced to nature, was
then collected into lumps or loops of sizes suited to their intended uses, when they were drawn
out of the doors of the furnace.  They were then stamped into plates, and piled or worked in
an air furnace, heated to a white or welding heat, shingled under a forge hammer, and passed
through the grooved rollers after the method described in the first patent.

The processes described by Cort in his two patents have been followed by iron manufacturers,
with various modifications, the results of enlarged experience, down to the present time. 
After the lapse of seventy-eight years, the language employed by Cort continues on the whole
a faithful description of the processes still practised:  the same methods of manufacturing
bar from cast-iron, and of puddling, piling, welding, and working the bar-iron through grooved
rollers--all are nearly identical with the methods of manufacture perfected by Henry Cort in
1784.  It may be mentioned that the development of the powers of the steam-engine by Watt had
an extraordinary effect upon the production of iron.  It created a largely increased demand
for the article for the purposes of the shafting and machinery which it was employed to drive;
while at the same time it cleared pits of water which before were unworkable, and by being
extensively applied to the blowing of iron-furnaces and the working of the rolling-mills, it
thus gave a still further impetus to the manufacture of the metal.  It would be beside our
purpose to enter into any statistical detail on the subject; but it will be sufficient to state
that the production of iron, which in the early part of last century amounted to little more
than 12,000 tons, about the middle of the century to about 18,000 tons, and at the time of
Cort's inventions to about 90,000 tons, was found, in 1820, to have increased to 400,000 tons;
and now the total quantity produced is upwards of four millions of tons of pig-iron every year,
or more than the entire production of all other European countries.  There is little reason
to doubt that this extraordinary development of the iron manufacture has been in a great measure
due to the inventions of Henry Cort.  It is said that at the present time there are not fewer
than 8200 of Cort's furnaces in operation in Great Britain alone.[5]

Practical men have regarded Cort's improvement of the process of rolling the iron as the most
valuable of his inventions.  A competent authority has spoken of Cort's grooved rollers as
of "high philosophical interest, being scarcely less than the discovery of a new mechanical
Power, in reversing the action of the wedge, by the application of force to four surfaces,
so as to elongate a mass, instead of applying force to a mass to divide the four surfaces."
One of the best authorities in the iron trade of last century, Mr. Alexander Raby of Llanelly,
like many others, was at first entirely sceptical as to the value of Cort's invention; but
he had no sooner witnessed the process than with manly candour he avowed his entire conversion
to his views.

We now return to the history of the chief author of this great branch of national industry.
As might naturally be expected, the principal ironmasters, when they heard of Cort's success,
and the rapidity and economy with which he manufactured and forged bar-iron, visited his foundry
for the purpose of examining his process, and, if found expedient, of employing it at their
own works.  Among the first to try it were Richard Crawshay of Cyfartha, Samuel Homfray of
Penydarran (both in South Wales), and William Reynolds of Coalbrookdale.  Richard Crawshay
was then (in 1787) forging only ten tons of bar-iron weekly under the hammer; and when he saw
the superior processes invented by Cort he readily entered into a contract with him to work
under his patents at ten shillings a ton royalty, In 1812 a letter from Mr. Crawshay to the
Secretary of Lord Sheffield was read to the House of Commons, descriptive of his method of
working iron, in which he said, "I took it from a Mr. Cort, who had a little mill at Fontley
in Hampshire:  I have thus acquainted you with my method, by which I am now making more than
ten thousand tons of bar-iron per annum."  Samuel Homfray was equally prompt in adopting the
new process.  He not only obtained from Cort plans of the puddling-furnaces and patterns of
the rolls, but borrowed Cort's workmen to instruct his own in the necessary operations; and
he soon found the method so superior to that invented by Onions that he entirely confined himself
to manufacturing after Cort's patent.  We also find Mr. Reynolds inviting Cort to conduct a
trial of his process at Ketley, though it does not appear that it was adopted by the firm at
that time.[6]

The quality of the iron manufactured by the new process was found satisfactory; and the Admiralty
having, by the persons appointed by them to test it in 1787, pronounced it to be superior to
the best Oregrounds iron, the use of the latter was thenceforward discontinued, and Cort's
iron only was directed to be used for the anchors and other ironwork in the ships of the Royal
Navy.  The merits of the invention seem to have been generally conceded, and numerous contracts
for licences were entered into with Cort and his partner by the manufacturers of bar-iron throughout
the country.[7]  Cort himself made arrangements for carrying on the manufacture on a large
scale, and with that object entered upon the possession of a wharf at Gosport, belonging to
Adam Jellicoe, his partner's father, where he succeeded in obtaining considerable Government
orders for iron made after his patents.  To all ordinary eyes the inventor now appeared to
be on the high road to fortune; but there was a fatal canker at the root of this seeming prosperity,
and in a few years the fabric which he had so laboriously raised crumbled into ruins.  On the
death of Adam Jellicoe, the father of Cort's partner, in August, 1789,[8] defalcations were
discovered in his public accounts to the extent of 39,676L, and his books and papers were immediately
taken possession of by the Government.  On examination it was found that the debts due to Jellicoe
amounted to 89,657L, included in which was a sum of not less than 54,853L. owing to him by
the Cort partnership.  In the public investigation which afterwards took place, it appeared
that the capital possessed by Cort being insufficient to enable him to pursue his experiments,
which were of a very expensive character, Adam Jellicoe had advanced money from time to time
for the purpose, securing himself by a deed of agreement entitling him to one-half the stock
and profits of all his contracts; and in further consideration of the capital advanced by Jellicoe
beyond his equal share, Cort subsequently assigned to him all his patent rights as collateral
security.  As Jellicoe had the reputation of being a rich man, Cort had not the slightest suspicion
of the source from which he obtained the advances made by him to the firm, nor has any connivance
whatever on the part of Cort been suggested.  At the same time it must be admitted that the
connexion was not free from suspicion, and, to say the least, it was a singularly unfortunate
one.  It was found that among the moneys advanced by Jellicoe to Cort there was a sum of 27,500L.
entrusted to him for the payment of seamen's and officers' wages.  How his embarrassments had
tempted him to make use of the public funds for the purpose of carrying on his speculations,
appears from his own admissions.  In a memorandum dated the 11th November, 1782, found in his
strong box after his death, he set forth that he had always had much more than his proper balance
in hand, until his engagement, about two years before, with Mr. Cort, "which by degrees has
so reduced me, and employed so much more of my money than I expected, that I have been obliged
to turn most of my Navy bills into cash, and at the same time, to my great concern, am very
deficient in my balance.  This gives me great uneasiness, nor shall I live or die in peace
till the whole is restored."  He had, however, made the first false step, after which the downhill
career of dishonesty is rapid.  His desperate attempts to set himself right only involved him
the deeper; his conscious breach of trust caused him a degree of daily torment which he could
not bear; and the discovery of his defalcations, which was made only a few days before his
death, doubtless hastened his end.

The Government acted with promptitude, as they were bound to do in such a case.  The body of
Jellicoe was worth nothing to them, but they could secure the property in which he had fraudulently
invested the public moneys intrusted to him.  With this object the them Paymaster of the Navy
proceeded to make an affidavit in the Exchequer that Henry Cort was indebted to His Majesty
in the sum of 27,500L. and upwards, in respect of moneys belonging to the public treasury,
which "Adam Jellicoe had at different times lent and advanced to the said Henry Cort, from
whom the same now remains justly due and owing; and the deponent saith he verily believes that
the said Henry Cort is much decayed in his credit and in very embarrassed circumstances; and
therefore the deponent verily believes that the aforesaid debt so due and owing to His Majesty
is in great danger of being lost if some more speedy means be not taken for the recovery than
by the ordinary process of the Court."  Extraordinary measures were therefore adopted.  The
assignments of Cort's patents, which had been made to Jellicoe in consideration of his advances,
were taken possession of; but Samuel Jellicoe, the son of the defaulter, singular to say, was
put in possession of the properties at Fontley and Gosport, and continued to enjoy them, to
Cort's exclusion, for a period of fourteen years.  It does not however appear that any patent
right was ever levied by the assignees, and the result of the proceeding was that the whole
benefit of Cort's inventions was thus made over to the ironmasters and to the public.  Had
the estate been properly handled, and the patent rights due under the contracts made by the
ironmasters with Cort been duly levied, there is little reason to doubt that the whole of the
debt owing to the Government would have been paid in the course of a few years.  "When we consider,"
says Mr. Webster, "how very simple was the process of demanding of the contracting ironmasters
the patent due (which for the year 1789 amounted to 15,000L., in 1790 to 15,000L., and in 1791
to 25,000L.), and which demand might have been enforced by the same legal process used to ruin
the inventor, it is not difficult to surmise the motive for abstaining."  The case, however,
was not so simple as Mr. Webster puts it; for there was such a contingency as that of the ironmasters
combining to dispute the patent right, and there is every reason to believe that they were
prepared to adopt that course.[9]

Although the Cort patents expired in 1796 and 1798 respectively, they continued the subject
of public discussion for some time after, more particularly in connection with the defalcations
of the deceased Adam Jellicoe.  It does not appear that more than 2654L. was realised by the
Government from the Cort estate towards the loss sustained by the public, as a balance of 24,846L.
was still found standing to the debit of Jellicoe in 1800, when the deficiencies in the naval
account's became matter of public inquiry.  A few years later, in 1805, the subject was again
revived in a remarkable manner.  In that year, the Whigs, Perceiving the bodily decay of Mr.
Pitt, and being too eager to wait for his removal by death, began their famous series of attacks
upon his administration.  Fearing to tackle the popular statesman himself, they inverted the
ordinary tactics of an opposition, and fell foul of Dundas, Lord Melville, then Treasurer of
the Navy, who had successfully carried the country through the great naval war with revolutionary
France.  They scrupled not to tax him with gross peculation, and exhibited articles of impeachment
against him, which became the subject of elaborate investigation, the result of which is matter
of history.  In those articles, no reference whatever was made to Lord Melville's supposed
complicity with Jellicoe; nor, on the trial that followed, was any reference made to the defalcations
of that official.  But when Mr. Whitbread, on the 8th of April, 1805, spoke to the "Resolutions"
in the Commons for impeaching the Treasurer of the Navy, he thought proper to intimate that
he "had a strong suspicion that Jellicoe was in the same partnership with Mark Sprott, Alexander
Trotter, and Lord Melville.  He had been suffered to remain a public debtor for a whole year
after he was known to be in arrears upwards of 24,000L.  During next year 11,000L. more had
accrued.  It would not have been fair to have turned too short on an old companion.  It would
perhaps, too, have been dangerous, since unpleasant discoveries might have met the public eye.
It looked very much as if, mutually conscious of criminality, they had agreed to be silent,
and keep their own secrets."

In making these offensive observations Whitbread was manifestly actuated by political enmity.
They were utterly unwarrantable.  In the first place, Melville had been formally acquitted
of Jellicoe's deficiency by a writ of Privy Seal, dated 31st May, 1800; and secondly, the committee
appointed in that very year (1805) to reinvestigate the naval accounts, had again exonerated
him, but intimated that they were of opinion there was remissness on his part in allowing Jellicoe
to remain in his office after the discovery of his defalcations.

the report made by the commissioners to the Houses of Parliament in 1805,[10] the value of
Corts patents was estimated at only 100L. Referring to the schedule of Jellicoe's alleged assets,
they say "Many of the debts are marked as bad; and we apprehend that the debt from Mr. Henry
Cort, not so marked, of 54,000L. and upwards, is of that description."  As for poor bankrupt
Henry Cort, these discussions availed nothing.  On the death of Jellicoe, he left his iron
works, feeling himself a ruined man.  He made many appeals to the Government of the day for
restoral of his patents, and offered to find security for payment of the debt due by his firm
to the Crown, but in vain.  In 1794, an appeal was made to Mr. Pitt by a number of influential
members of Parliament, on behalf of the inventor and his destitute family of twelve children,
when a pension of 200L. a-year was granted him.  This Mr. Cort enjoyed until the year 1800,
when he died, broken in health and spirit, in his sixtieth year.  He was buried in Hampstead
Churchyard, where a stone marking the date of his death is still to be seen.  A few years since
it was illegible, but it has recently been restored by his surviving son.

Though Cort thus died in comparative poverty, he laid the foundations of many gigantic fortunes.
He may be said to have been in a great measure the author of our modern iron aristocracy, who
still manufacture after the processes which he invented or perfected, but for which they never
paid him a shilling of royalty.  These men of gigantic fortunes have owed much--we might almost
say everything--to the ruined projector of "the little mill at Fontley."  Their wealth has
enriched many families of the older aristocracy, and has been the foundation of several modern
peerages.  Yet Henry Cort, the rock from which they were hewn, is already all but forgotten;
and his surviving children, now aged and infirm, are dependent for their support upon the slender
pittance wrung by repeated entreaty and expostulation from the state.

The career of Richard Crawshay, the first of the great ironmasters who had the sense to appreciate
and adopt the methods of manufacturing iron invented by Henry Cort, is a not unfitting commentary
on the sad history we have thus briefly described.  It shows how, as respects mere money-making,
shrewdness is more potent than invention, and business faculty than manufacturing skill.  Richard
Crawshay was born at Normanton near Leeds, the son of a small Yorkshire farmer.  When a youth,
he worked on his father's farm, and looked forward to occupying the same condition in life;
but a difference with his father unsettled his mind, and at the age of fifteen he determined
to leave his home, and seek his fortune elsewhere.  Like most unsettled and enterprising lads,
he first made for London, riding to town on a pony of his own, which, with the clothes on his
back, formed his entire fortune.  It took him a fortnight to make the journey, in consequence
of the badness of the roads.  Arrived in London, he sold his pony for fifteen pounds, and the
money kept him until he succeeded in finding employment.  He was so fortunate as to be taken
upon trial by a Mr. Bicklewith, who kept an ironmonger's shop in York Yard, Upper Thames Street;
and his first duty there was to clean out the office, put the stools and desks in order for
the other clerks, run errands, and act as porter when occasion required.  Young Crawshay was
very attentive, industrious, and shrewd; and became known in the office as "The Yorkshire Boy."
Chiefly because of his "cuteness," his master appointed him to the department of selling flat
irons.  The London washerwomen of that day were very sharp and not very honest, and it used
to be said of them that where they bought one flat iron they generally contrived to steal two.
Mr. Bicklewith thought he could not do better than set the Yorkshireman to watch the washerwomen,
and, by way of inducement to him to be vigilant, he gave young Crawshay an interest in that
branch of the business, which was soon found to prosper under his charge.  After a few more
years, Mr. Bicklewith retired, and left to Crawshay the cast-iron business in York Yard.  This
he still further increased, There was not at that time much enterprise in the iron trade, but
Crawshay endeavoured to connect himself with what there was of it.  The price of iron was then
very high, and the best sorts were still imported from abroad; a good deal of the foreign iron
and steel being still landed at the Steelyard on the Thames, in the immediate neighbourhood
of Crawshay's ironmongery store.

It seems to have occurred to some London capitalists that money was then to be made in the
iron trade, and that South Wales was a good field for an experiment.  The soil there was known
to be full of coal and ironstone, and several small iron works had for some time been carried
on, which were supposed to be doing well.  Merthyr Tydvil was one of the places at which operations
had been begun, but the place being situated in a hill district, of difficult access, and the
manufacture being still in a very imperfect state, the progress made was for some time very
slow.  Land containing coal and iron was deemed of very little value, as maybe inferred from
the fact that in the year 1765, Mr. Anthony Bacon, a man of much foresight, took a lease from
Lord Talbot, for 99 years, of the minerals under forty square miles of country surrounding
the then insignificant hamlet of Merthyr Tydvil, at the trifling rental of 200L. a-year.  There
he erected iron works, and supplied the Government with considerable quantities of cannon and
iron for different purposes; and having earned a competency, he retired from business in 1782,
subletting his mineral tract in four divisions--the Dowlais, the Penydarran, the Cyfartha,
and the Plymouth Works, north, east, west, and south, of Merthyr Tydvil.

Mr. Richard Crawshay became the lessee of what Mr. Mushet has called "the Cyfartha flitch of
the great Bacon domain."  There he proceeded to carry on the works established by Mr. Bacon
with increased spirit; his son William, whom he left in charge of the ironmongery store in
London, supplying him with capital to put into the iron works as fast as he could earn it by
the retail trade.  In 1787, we find Richard Crawshay manufacturing with difficulty ten tons
of bar-iron weekly, and it was of a very inferior character,[11]--the means not having yet
been devised at Cyfartha for malleableizing the pit-coal cast-iron with economy or good effect.
Yet Crawshay found a ready market for all the iron he could make, and he is said to have counted
the gains of the forge-hammer close by his house at the rate of a penny a stroke.  In course
of time he found it necessary to erect new furnaces, and, having adopted the processes invented
by Henry Cort, he was thereby enabled greatly to increase the production of his forges, until
in 1812 we find him stating to a committee of the House of Commons that he was making ten thousand
tons of bar-iron yearly, or an average produce of two hundred tons a week.  But this quantity,
great though it was, has since been largely increased, the total produce of the Crawshay furnaces
of Cyfartha, Ynysfach, and Kirwan, being upwards of 50,000 tons of bar-iron yearly.

The distance of Merthyr from Cardiff, the nearest port, being considerable, and the cost of
carriage being very great by reason of the badness of the roads, Mr. Crawshay set himself to
overcome this great impediment to the prosperity of the Merthyr Tydvil district; and, in conjunction
with Mr. Homfray of the Penydarran Works, he planned and constructed the canal[12] to Cardiff,
the opening of which, in 1795, gave an immense impetus to the iron trade of the neighbourhood.
Numerous other extensive iron works became established there, until Merthyr Tydvil attained
the reputation of being at once the richest and the dirtiest district in all Britain.  Mr.
Crawshay became known in the west of England as the "Iron King," and was quoted as the highest
authority in all questions relating to the trade.  Mr. George Crawshay, recently describing
the founder of the family at a social meeting at Newcastle, said,--"In these days a name like
ours is lost in the infinity of great manufacturing firms which exist through out the land;
but in those early times the man who opened out the iron district of Wales stood upon an eminence
seen by all the world.  It is preserved in the traditions of the family that when the 'Iron
King' used to drive from home in his coach-and-four into Wales, all the country turned out
to see him, and quite a commotion took place when he passed through Bristol on his way to the
works.  My great grandfather was succeeded by his son, and by his grandson; the Crawshays have
followed one another for four generations in the iron trade in Wales, and there they still
stand at the head of the trade."  The occasion on which these words were uttered was at a Christmas
party, given to the men, about 1300 in number, employed at the iron works of Messrs. Hawks,
Crawshay, and Co., at Newcastle-upon-Tyne.  These works were founded in 1754 by William Hawks,
a blacksmith, whose principal trade consisted in making claw-hammers for joiners.  He became
a thriving man, and eventually a large manufacturer of bar-iron.  Partners joined him, and
in the course of the changes wrought by time, one of the Crawshays, in 1842, became a principal
partner in the firm.

Illustrations of a like kind might be multiplied to any extent, showing the growth in our own
time of an iron aristocracy of great wealth and influence, the result mainly of the successful
working of the inventions of the unfortunate and unrequited Henry Cort.  He has been the very
Tubal Cain of England--one of the principal founders of our iron age.  To him we mainly owe
the abundance of wrought-iron for machinery, for steam-engines, and for railways, at one-third
the price we were before accustomed to pay to the foreigner.  We have by his invention, not
only ceased to be dependent upon other nations for our supply of iron for tools, implements,
and arms, but we have become the greatest exporters of iron, producing more than all other
European countries combined.  In the opinion of Mr. Fairbairn of Manchester, the inventions
of Henry Cort have already added six hundred millions sterling to the wealth of the kingdom,
while they have given employment to some six hundred thousand working people during three generations.
And while the great ironmasters, by freely availing themselves of his inventions, have been
adding estate to estate, the only estate secured by Henry Cort was the little domain of six
feet by two in which he lies interred in Hampstead Churchyard.

[1] Life of Brunel, p. 60.

[2] SCRIVENOR, History of the Iron Trade, 169.

[3] Although the iron manufacture had gradually been increasing since the middle of the century,
it was as yet comparatively insignificant in amount.  Thus we find, from a statement by W.
Wilkinson, dated Dec. 25, 1791, contained in the memorandum-book of Wm. Reynolds of Coalbrookdale,
that the produce in England and Scotland was then estimated to be

                   Coke Furnaces.               Charcoal Furnaces.

 In England ......73 producing 67,548 tons      20 producing 8500 tons
 In Scotland......12     "     12,480   "        2     "     1000   "
                ----           ------           --           ----
                  85     "     80,028   "       22     "     9500   "

At the same time the annual import of Oregrounds iron from Sweden amounted to about 20,000
tons, and of bars and slabs from Russia about 50,000 tons, at an average cost of 35L. a ton!

[4] "It is material to observe", says Mr. Webster, "that Cort, in this specification, speaks
of the rollers, furnaces, and separate processes, as well known.  There is no claim to any
of them separately; the claim is to the reducing of the faggots of piled iron into bars, and
the welding of such bars by rollers instead of by forge-hammers."--Memoir of Henry Cort, in
Mechanic's Magazine, 15 July, 1859, by Thomas Webster, M.A., F.R.S.

[5] Letter by Mr. Truran in Mechanic's Magazine.

[6] In the memorandum-book of Wm. Reynolds appears the following entry on the subject:--

"Copy of a paper given to H. Cort, Esq.

"W. Reynolds saw H. C. in a trial which he made at Ketley, Dec. 17, 1784, produce from the
same pig both cold short and tough iron by a variation of the process used in reducing them
from the state of cast-iron to that of malleable or bar-iron; and in point of yield his processes
were quite equal to those at Pitchford, which did not exceed the proportion of 31 cwt. to the
ton of bars.  The experiment was made by stamping and potting the blooms or loops made in his
furnace, which then produced a cold short iron; but when they were immediately shingled and
drawn, the iron was of a black tough."

The Coalbrookdale ironmasters are said to have been deterred from adopting the process because
of what was considered an excessive waste of the metal--about 25 per cent,--though, with greater
experience, this waste was very much diminished.

[7] Mr. Webster, in the 'Case of Henry Cort,' published in the Mechanic's Magazine (2 Dec.
1859), states that "licences were taken at royalties estimated to yield 27,500L. to the owners
of the patents."

[8] In the 'Case of Henry Cort,' by Mr. Webster, above referred to (Mechanic's Magazine, 2
Dec. 1859), it is stated that Adam Jellicoe "committed suicide under the pressure of dread
of exposure," but this does not appear to be confirmed by the accounts in the newspapers of
the day.  He died at his private dwelling-house, No. 14, Highbury Place, Islingtonn, on the
30th August, 1789, after a fortnight's illness.

[9] This is confirmed by the report of a House of Commons Committee on the subject Mr. Davies
Gilbert chairman, in which they say, "Your committee have not been able to satisfy themselves
that either of the two inventions, one for subjecting cast-iron to an operation termed puddling
during its conversion to malleable iron, and the other for passing it through fluted or grooved
rollers, were so novel in their principle or their application as fairly to entitle the petitioners
[Mr. Cort's survivors] to a parliamentary reward."  It is, however, stated by Mr. Mushet that
the evidence was not fairly taken by the committee--that they were overborne by the audacity
of Mr. Samuel Homfray, one of the great Welsh ironmasters, whose statements were altogether
at variance with known facts--and that it was under his influence that Mr. Gilbert drew up
the fallacious report of the committee.  The illustrious James Watt, writing to Dr. Black in
1784, as to the iron produced by Cort's process, said, "Though I cannot perfectly agree with
you as to its goodness, yet there is much ingenuity in the idea of forming the bars in that
manner, which is the only part of his process which has any pretensions to novelty....  Mr.
Cort has, as you observe, been most illiberally treated by the trade: they are ignorant brutes;
but he exposed himself to it by showing them the process before it was perfect, and seeing
his ignorance of the common operations of making iron, laughed at and despised him; yet they
will contrive by some dirty evasion to use his process, or such parts as they like, without
acknowledging him in it.  I shall be glad to be able to be of any use to him.  Watts fellow-feeling
was naturally excited in favour of the plundered inventor, he himself having all his life been
exposed to the attacks of like piratical assailants.

[10] Tenth Report of the Commissioners of Naval Inquiry.  See also Report of Select Committee
on the 10th Naval Report.  May, 1805.

[11] Mr. Mushet says of the early manufacture of iron at Merthyr Tydvil that "A modification
of the charcoal refinery, a hollow fire, was worked with coke as a substitute for charcoal,
but the bar-iron hammered from the produce was very inferior."  The pit-coal cast-iron was
nevertheless found of a superior quality for castings, being more fusible and more homogeneous
than charcoal-iron.  Hence it was well adapted for cannon, which was for some time the principal
article of manufacture at the Welsh works.

[12] It may be worthy of note that the first locomotive run upon a railroad was that constructed
by Trevithick for Mr. Homfray in 1803, which was employed to bring down metal from the furnaces
to the Old Forge.  The engine was taken off the road because the tram-plates were found too
weak to bear its weight without breaking.

"Were public benefactors to be allowed to pass away, like hewers of wood and drawers of water,
without commemoration, genius and enterprise would be deprived of their most coveted distinction."--Sir
Henry Englefield.

The account given of Dr. Roebuck in a Cyclopedia of Biography, recently published in Glasgow,
runs as follows:--"Roebuck, John, a physician and experimental chemist, born at Sheffield,
1718; died, after ruining himself by his projects, 1794."  Such is the short shrift which the
man receives who fails.  Had Dr. Roebuck wholly succeeded in his projects, he would probably
have been esteemed as among the greatest of Scotland's benefactors.  Yet his life was not altogether
a failure, as we think will sufficiently appear from the following brief account of his labours:--

At the beginning of last century, John Roebuck's father carried on the manufacture of cutlery
at Sheffield,[1] in the course of which he realized a competency.  He intended his son to follow
his own business, but the youth was irresistibly attracted to scientific pursuits, in which
his father liberally encouraged him; and he was placed first under the care of Dr. Doddridge,
at Northampton, and afterwards at the University of Edinburgh, where he applied himself to
the study of medicine, and especially of chemistry, which was then attracting considerable
attention at the principal seats of learning in Scotland. While residing at Edinburgh young
Roebuck contracted many intimate friendships with men who afterwards became eminent in literature,
such as Hume and Robertson the historians, and the circumstance is supposed to have contributed
not a little to his partiality in favour of Scotland, and his afterwards selecting it as the
field for his industrial operations.

After graduating as a physician at Leyden, Roebuck returned to England, and settled at Birmingham
in the year 1745 for the purpose of practising his profession.  Birmingham was then a principal
seat of the metal manufacture, and its mechanics were reputed to be among the most skilled
in Britain.  Dr. Roebuck's attention was early drawn to the scarcity and dearness of the material
in which the mechanics worked, and he sought by experiment to devise some method of smelting
iron otherwise than by means of charcoal.  He had a laboratory fitted up in his house for the
purpose of prosecuting his inquiries, and there he spent every minute that he could spare from
his professional labours. It was thus that he invented the process of smelting iron by means
of pit-coal which he afterwards embodied in the patent hereafter to be referred to.  At the
same time he invented new methods of refining gold and silver, and of employing them in the
arts, which proved of great practical value to the Birmingham trades-men, who made extensive
use of them in their various processes of manufacture.

Dr. Roebuck's inquiries had an almost exclusively practical direction, and in pursuing them
his main object was to render them subservient to the improvement of the industrial arts. 
Thus he sought to devise more economical methods of producing the various chemicals used in
the Birmingham trade, such as ammonia, sublimate, and several of the acids; and his success
was such as to induce him to erect a large laboratory for their manufacture, which was conducted
with complete success by his friend Mr. Garbett.  Among his inventions of this character, was
the modern process of manufacturing vitriolic acid in leaden vessels in large quantities, instead
of in glass vessels in small quantities as formerly practised.  His success led him to consider
the project of establishing a manufactory for the purpose of producing oil of vitriol on a
large scale; and, having given up his practice as a physician, he resolved, with his partner
Mr. Garbett, to establish the proposed works in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh.  He removed
to Scotland with that object, and began the manufacture of vitriol at Prestonpans in the year
1749.  The enterprise proved eminently lucrative, and, encouraged by his success, Roebuck proceeded
to strike out new branches of manufacture.  He started a pottery for making white and brown
ware, which eventually became established, and the manufacture exists in the same neighbourhood
to this day.

The next enterprise in which he became engaged was one of still greater importance, though
it proved eminently unfortunate in its results as concerned himself.  While living at Prestonpans,
he made the friendship of Mr. William Cadell, of Cockenzie, a gentleman who had for some time
been earnestly intent on developing the industry of Scotland, then in a very backward condition.
Mr. Cadell had tried, without success, to establish a manufactory of iron; and, though he had
heretofore failed, he hoped that with the aid of Dr. Roebuck he might yet succeed.  The Doctor
listened to his suggestions with interest, and embraced the proposed enterprise with zeal.
He immediately proceeded to organize a company, in which he was joined by a number of his friends
and relatives.  His next step was to select a site for the intended works, and make the necessary
arrangements for beginning the manufacture of iron.  After carefully examining the country
on both sides of the Forth, he at length made choice of a site on the banks of the river Carron,
in Stirlingshire, where there was an abundant supply of wafer, and an inexhaustible supply
of iron, coal, and limestone in the immediate neighbourhood, and there Dr. Roebuck planted
the first ironworks in Scotland.

In order to carry them on with the best chances of success, he brought a large number of skilled
workmen from England, who formed a nucleus of industry at Carron, where their example and improved
methods of working served to train the native labourers in their art.  At a subsequent period,
Mr. Cadell, of Carronpark, also brought a number of skilled English nail-makers into Scotland,
and settled them in the village of Camelon, where, by teaching others, the business has become
handed down to the present day.

The first furnace was blown at Carron on the first day of January, 1760; and in the course
of the same year the Carron Iron Works turned out 1500 tons of iron, then the whole annual
produce of Scotland. Other furnaces were shortly after erected on improved plans, and the production
steadily increased.  Dr. Roebuck was indefatigable in his endeavours to improve the manufacture,
and he was one of the first, as we have said, to revive the use of pit-coal in refining the
ore, as appears from his patent of 1762.  He there describes his new process as follows:--"I
melt pig or any kind of cast-iron in a hearth heated with pit-coal by the blast of bellows,
and work the metal until it is reduced to nature, which I take out of the fire and separate
to pieces; then I take the metal thus reduced to nature and expose it to the action of a hollow
pit-coal fire, heated by the blast of bellows, until it is reduced to a loop, which I draw
out under a common forge hammer into bar-iron."  This method of manufacture was followed with
success, though for some time, as indeed to this day, the principal production of the Carron
Works was castings, for which the peculiar quality of the Scotch iron admirably adapts it.
The well-known Carronades,[2] or "Smashers," as they were named, were cast in large numbers
at the Carron Works.  To increase the power of his blowing apparatus, Dr. Roebuck called to
his aid the celebrated Mr. Smeaton, the engineer, who contrived and erected for him at Carron
the most perfect apparatus of the kind then in existence.  It may also be added, that out of
the Carron enterprise, in a great measure, sprang the Forth and Clyde Canal, the first artificial
navigation in Scotland.  The Carron Company, with a view to securing an improved communication
with Glasgow, themselves surveyed a line, which was only given up in consequence of the determined
opposition of the landowners; but the project was again revived through their means, and was
eventually carried out after the designs of Smeaton and Brindley.

While the Carron foundry was pursuing a career of safe prosperity, Dr. Roebuck's enterprise
led him to embark in coal-mining, with the object of securing an improved supply of fuel for
the iron works.  He became the lessee of the Duke of Hamilton's extensive coal-mines at Boroughstoness,
as well as of the salt-pans which were connected with them.  The mansion of Kinneil went with
the lease, and there Dr. Roebuck and his family took up their abode.  Kinneil House was formerly
a country seat of the Dukes of Hamilton, and is to this day a stately old mansion, reminding
one of a French chateau.  Its situation is of remarkable beauty, its windows overlooking the
broad expanse of the Firth of Forth, and commanding an extensive view of the country along
its northern shores.  The place has become in a measure classical, Kinneil House having been
inhabited, since Dr. Roebuck's time, by Dugald Stewart, who there wrote his Philosophical Essays.[3]
When Dr. Roebuck began to sink for coal at the new mines, he found it necessary to erect pumping-machinery
of the most powerful kind that could be contrived, in order to keep the mines clear of water.
For this purpose the Newcomen engine, in its then state, was found insufficient; and when Dr.
Roebuck's friend, Professor Black, of Edinburgh, informed him of a young man of his acquaintance,
a mathematical instrument maker at Glasgow, having invented a steam-engine calculated to work
with increased power, speed, and economy, compared with Newcomen's; Dr. Roebuck was much interested,
and shortly after entered into a correspondence with James Watt, the mathematical instrument
maker aforesaid on the subject.  The Doctor urged that Watt, who, up to that time, had confined
himself to models, should come over to Kinneil House, and proceed to erect a working; engine
in one of the outbuildings.  The English workmen whom he had brought; to the Carron works would,
he justly thought, give Watt a better chance of success with his engine than if made by the
clumsy whitesmiths and blacksmiths of Glasgow, quite unaccustomed as they were to first-class
work; and he proposed himself to cast the cylinders at Carron previous to Watt's intended visit
to him at Kinneil.

Watt paid his promised visit in May, 1768, and Roebuck was by this time so much interested
in the invention, that the subject of his becoming a partner with Watt, with the object of
introducing the engine into general use, was seriously discussed.  Watt had been labouring
at his invention for several years, contending with many difficulties, but especially with
the main difficulty of limited means.  He had borrowed considerable sums of money from Dr.
Black to enable him to prosecute his experiments, and he felt the debt to hang like a millstone
round his neck.  Watt was a sickly, fragile man, and a constant sufferer from violent headaches;
besides he was by nature timid, desponding, painfully anxious, and easily cast down by failure.
Indeed, he was more than once on the point of abandoning his invention in despair.  On the
other hand, Dr. Roebuck was accustomed to great enterprises, a bold and undaunted man, and
disregardful of expense where he saw before him a reasonable prospect of success.  His reputation
as a practical chemist and philosopher, and his success as the founder of the Prestonpans Chemical
Works and of the Carron Iron Works, justified the friends of Watt in thinking that he was of
all men the best calculated to help him at this juncture, and hence they sought to bring about
a more intimate connection between the two.  The result was that Dr. Roebuck eventually became
a partner to the extent of two-thirds of the invention, took upon him the debt owing by Watt
to Dr. Black amounting to about 1200L., and undertook to find the requisite money to protect
the invention by means of a patent.  The necessary steps were taken accordingly and the patent
right was secured by the beginning of 1769, though the perfecting of his model cost Watt much
further anxiety and study.

It was necessary for Watt occasionally to reside with Dr. Roebuck at Kinneil House while erecting
his first engine there.  It had been originally intended to erect it in the neighbouring town
of Boroughstoness, but as there might be prying eyes there, and Watt wished to do his work
in privacy, determined "not to puff," he at length fixed upon an outhouse still standing, close
behind the mansion, by the burnside in the glen, where there was abundance of water and secure
privacy.  Watt's extreme diffidence was often the subject of remark at Dr. Roebuck's fireside.
To the Doctor his anxiety seemed quite painful, and he was very much disposed to despond under
apparently trivial difficulties.  Roebuck's hopeful nature was his mainstay throughout.  Watt
himself was ready enough to admit this; for, writing to his friend Dr. Small, he once said,
"I have met with many disappointments; and I must have sunk under the burthen of them if I
had not been supported by the friendship of Dr. Roebuck."

But more serious troubles were rapidly accumulating upon Dr. Roebuck himself; and it was he,
and not Watt, that sank under the burthen.  The progress of Watt's engine was but slow, and
long before it could be applied to the pumping of Roebuck's mines, the difficulties of the
undertaking on which he had entered overwhelmed him.  The opening out of the principal coal
involved a very heavy outlay, extending over many years, during which he sank not only his
own but his wife's fortune, and--what distressed him most of all--large sums borrowed from
his relatives and friends, which he was unable to repay.  The consequence was, that he was
eventually under the necessity of withdrawing his capital from the refining works at Birmingham,
and the vitriol works at Prestonpans.  At the same time, he transferred to Mr. Boulton of Soho
his entire interest in Watt's steam-engine, the value of which, by the way, was thought so
small that it was not even included among the assets; Roebuck's creditors not estimating it
as worth one farthing. Watt sincerely deplored his partner's misfortunes, but could not help
him.  "He has been a most sincere and generous friend," said Watt, "and is a truly worthy man."
And again, "My heart bleeds for him, but I can do nothing to help him:  I have stuck by him
till I have much hurt myself; I can do so no longer; my family calls for my care to provide
for them."  The later years of Dr. Roebuck's life were spent in comparative obscurity; and
he died in 1794, in his 76th year.

He lived to witness the success of the steam-engine, the opening up of the Boroughstoness coal,[4]
and the rapid extension of the Scotch iron trade, though he shared in the prosperity of neither
of those branches of industry.  He had been working ahead of his age, and he suffered for it.
He fell in the breach at the critical moment, and more fortunate men marched over his body
into the fortress which his enterprise and valour had mainly contributed to win.  Before his
great undertaking of the Carron Works, Scotland was entirely dependent upon other countries
for its supply of iron.  In 1760, the first year of its operations, the whole produce was 1500
tons.  In course of time other iron works were erected, at Clyde Cleugh, Muirkirk, and Devon--the
managers and overseers of which, as well as the workmen, had mostly received their training
and experience at Carron--until at length the iron trade of Scotland has assumed such a magnitude
that its manufacturers are enabled to export to England and other countries upwards of 500,000
tons a-year.  How different this state of things from the time when raids were made across
the Border for the purpose of obtaining a store of iron plunder to be carried back into Scotland!

The extraordinary expansion of the Scotch iron trade of late years has been mainly due to the
discovery by David Mushet of the Black Band ironstone in 1801, and the invention of the Hot
Blast by James Beaumont Neilson in 1828.  David Mushet was born at Dalkeith, near Edinburgh,
in 1772.[5]  Like other members of his family he was brought up to metal-founding.  At the
age of nineteen he joined the staff of the Clyde Iron Works, near Glasgow, at a time when the
Company had only two blast-furnaces at work.  The office of accountant, which he held, precluded
him from taking any part in the manufacturing operations of the concern.  But being of a speculative
and ingenious turn of mind, the remarkable conversions which iron underwent in the process
of manufacture very shortly began to occupy his attention.  The subject was much discussed
by the young men about the works, and they frequently had occasion to refer to Foureroy's well-known
book for the purpose of determining various questions of difference which arose among them
in the course of their inquiries.  The book was, however, in many respects indecisive and unsatisfactory;
and, in 1793, when a reduction took place in the Company's staff, and David Mushet was left
nearly the sole occupant of the office, he determined to study the subject for himself experimentally,
and in the first place to acquire a thorough knowledge of assaying, as the true key to the
whole art of iron-making.

He first set up his crucible upon the bridge of the reverberatory furnace used for melting
pig-iron, and filled it with a mixture carefully compounded according to the formula of the
books; but, notwithstanding the shelter of a brick, placed before it to break the action of
the flame, the crucible generally split in two, and not unfrequently melted and disappeared
altogether.  To obtain better results if possible, he next had recourse to the ordinary smith's
fire, carrying on his experiments in the evenings after office-hours.  He set his crucible
upon the fire on a piece of fire brick, opposite the nozzle of the bellows; covering the whole
with coke, and then exciting the flame by blowing.  This mode of operating produced somewhat
better results, but still neither the iron nor the cinder obtained resembled the pig or scoria
of the blast-furnace, which it was his ambition to imitate.  From the irregularity of the results,
and the frequent failure of the crucibles, he came to the conclusion that either his furnace,
or his mode of fluxing, was in fault, and he looked about him for a more convenient means of
pursuing his experiments.  A small square furnace had been erected in the works for the purpose
of heating the rivets used for the repair of steam-engine boilers; the furnace had for its
chimney a cast-iron pipe six or seven inches in diameter and nine feet long.  After a few trials
with it, he raised the heat to such an extent that the lower end of the pipe was melted off,
without producing any very satisfactory results on the experimental crucible, and his operations
were again brought to a standstill.  A chimney of brick having been substituted for the cast-iron
pipe, he was, however, enabled to proceed with his trials.

He continued to pursue his experiments in assaying for about two years, during which he had
been working entirely after the methods described in books; but, feeling the results still
unsatisfactory, he determined to borrow no more from the books, but to work out a system of
his own, which should ensure results similar to those produced at the blast-furnace.  This
he eventually succeeded in effecting by numerous experiments performed in the night; as his
time was fully occupied by his office-duties during the day.  At length these patient experiments
bore their due fruits.  David Mushet became the most skilled assayer at the works; and when
a difficulty occurred in smelting a quantity of new ironstone which had been contracted for,
the manager himself resorted to the bookkeeper for advice and information; and the skill and
experience which he had gathered during his nightly labours, enabled him readily and satisfactorily
to solve the difficulty and suggest a suitable remedy.  His reward for this achievement was
the permission, which was immediately granted him by the manager, to make use of his own assay-furnace,
in which he thenceforward continued his investigations, at the same time that he instructed
the manager's son in the art of assaying.  This additional experience proved of great benefit
to him; and he continued to prosecute his inquiries with much zeal, sometimes devoting entire
nights to experiments in assaying, roasting and cementing iron-ores and ironstone, decarbonating
cast-iron for steel and bar-iron, and various like operations.  His general practice, however,
at that time was, to retire between two and three o'clock in the morning, leaving directions
with the engine-man to call him at half-past five, so as to be present in the office at six.
But these praiseworthy experiments were brought to a sudden end, as thus described by himself:--

"In the midst of my career of investigation," says he,[6] "and without a cause being assigned,
I was stopped short.  My furnaces, at the order of the manager, were pulled in pieces, and
an edict was passed that they should never be erected again.  Thus terminated my researches
at the Clyde Iron Works.  It happened at a time when I was interested--and I had been two years
previously occupied--in an attempt to convert cast-iron into steel, without fusion, by a process
of cementation, which had for its object the dispersion or absorption of the superfluous carbon
contained in the cast-iron,--an object which at that time appeared to me of so great importance,
that, with the consent of a friend, I erected an assay and cementing Furnace at the distance
of about two miles from the Clyde Works.  Thither I repaired at night, and sometimes at the
breakfast and dinner hours during the day.  This plan of operation was persevered in for the
whole of one summer, but was found too uncertain and laborious to be continued.  At the latter
end of the year 1798 I left my chambers, and removed from the Clyde Works to the distance of
about a mile, where I constructed several furnaces for assaying and cementing, capable of exciting
a greater temperature than any to which I before had access; and thus for nearly two years
I continued to carry on my investigations connected with iron and the alloys of the metals.

"Though operating in a retired manner, and holding little communication with others, my views
and opinions upon the RATIONALE of iron-making spread over the establishment.  I was considered
forward in affecting to see and explain matters in a different way from others who were much
my seniors, and who were content to be satisfied with old methods of explanation, or with no
explanation at all.....  Notwithstanding these early reproaches, I have lived to see the nomenclature
of my youth furnish a vocabulary of terms in the art of iron-making, which is used by many
of the ironmasters of the present day with freedom and effect, in communicating with each other
on the subject of their respective manufactures.  Prejudices seldom outlive the generation
to which they belong, when opposed by a more rational system of explanation.  In this respect,
Time (as my Lord Bacon says) is the greatest of all innovators.

"In a similar manner, Time operated in my favour in respect to the Black Band Ironstone.[7]
The discovery of this was made in 1801, when I was engaged in erecting for myself and partners
the Calder Iron Works.  Great prejudice was excited against me by the ironmasters and others
of that day in presuming to class the WILD COALS of the country (as Black Band was called)
with ironstone fit and proper for the blast furnace.  Yet that discovery has elevated Scotland
to a considerable rank among the iron-making nations of Europe, with resources still in store
that may be considered inexhaustible.  But such are the consolatory effects of Time, that the
discoverer of 1801 is no longer considered the intrusive visionary of the laboratory, but the
acknowledged benefactor of his country at large, and particularly of an extensive class of
coal and mine proprietors and iron masters, who have derived, and are still deriving, great
wealth from this important discovery; and who, in the spirit of grateful acknowledgment, have
pronounced it worthy of a crown of gold, or a monumental record on the spot where the discovery
was first made.

"At an advanced period of life, such considerations are soothing and satisfactory.  Many under
similar circumstances have not, in their own lifetime, had that measure of justice awarded
to them by their country to which they were equally entitled.  I accept it, however, as a boon
justly due to me, and as an equivalent in some degree for that laborious course of investigation
which I had prescribed for myself, and which, in early life, was carried on under circumstances
of personal exposure and inconvenience, which nothing but a frame of iron could have supported.
They atone also, in part, for that disappointment sustained in early life by the speculative
habits of one partner, and the constitutional nervousness of another, which eventually occasioned
my separation from the Calder Iron Works, and lost me the possession of extensive tracts of
Black Band iron-stone, which I had secured while the value of the discovery was known only
to myself."

Mr. Mushet published the results of his laborious investigations in a series of papers in the
Philosophical Magazine,--afterwards reprinted in a collected form in 1840 under the title of
"Papers on Iron and Steel."  These papers are among the most valuable original contributions
to the literature of the iron-manufacture that have yet been given to the world.  They contain
the germs of many inventions and discoveries in iron and steel, some of which were perfected
by Mr. Mushet himself, while others were adopted and worked out by different experimenters.
In 1798 some of the leading French chemists were endeavouring to prove by experiment that steel
could be made by contact of the diamond with bar-iron in the crucible, the carbon of the diamond
being liberated and entering into combination with the iron, forming steel.  In the animated
controversy which occurred on the subject, Mr. Mushet's name was brought into considerable
notice; one of the subjects of his published experiments having been the conversion of bar-iron
into steel in the crucible by contact with regulated proportions of charcoal.  The experiments
which he made in connection with this controversy, though in themselves unproductive of results,
led to the important discovery by Mr. Mushet of the certain fusibility of malleable iron at
a suitable temperature.

Among the other important results of Mr. Mushet's lifelong labours, the following may be summarily
mentioned:  The preparation of steel from bar-iron by a direct process, combining the iron
with carbon; the discovery of the beneficial effects of oxide of manganese on iron and steel;
the use of oxides of iron in the puddling-furnace in various modes of appliance; the production
of pig-iron from the blast-furnace, suitable for puddling, without the intervention of the
refinery; and the application of the hot blast to anthracite coal in iron-smelting. For the
process of combining iron with carbon for the production of steel, Mr. Mushet took out a patent
in November, 1800; and many years after, when he had discovered the beneficial effects of oxide
of manganese on steel, Mr. Josiah Heath founded upon it his celebrated patent for the making
of cast-steel, which had the effect of raising the annual production of that metal in Sheffield
from 3000 to 100,000 tons.  His application of the hot blast to anthracite coal, after a process
invented by him and adopted by the Messrs. Hill of the Plymouth Iron Works, South Wales, had
the effect of producing savings equal to about 20,000L. a year at those works; and yet, strange
to say, Mr. Mushet himself never received any consideration for his invention.

The discovery of Titanium by Mr. Mushet in the hearth of a blast-furnace in 1794 would now
be regarded as a mere isolated fact, inasmuch as Titanium was not placed in the list of recognised
metals until Dr. Wollaston, many years later, ascertained its qualities.  But in connection
with the fact, it may be mentioned that Mr. Mushet's youngest son, Robert, reasoning on the
peculiar circumstances of the discovery in question, of which ample record is left, has founded
upon it his Titanium process, which is expected by him eventually to supersede all other methods
of manufacturing steel, and to reduce very materially the cost of its production.

While he lived, Mr. Mushet was a leading authority on all matters connected with Iron and Steel,
and he contributed largely to the scientific works of his time.  Besides his papers in the
Philosophical Journal, he wrote the article "Iron" for Napiers Supplement to the Encyclopaedia
Britannica; and the articles "Blast Furnace" and "Blowing Machine" for Rees's Cyclopaedia.
The two latter articles had a considerable influence on the opposition to the intended tax
upon iron in 1807, and were frequently referred to in the discussions on the subject in Parliament.
Mr. Mushet died in 1847.

[1] Dr. Roebuck's grandson, John Arthur Roebuck, by a singular coincidence, at present represents
Sheffield in the British Parliament.

[2] The carronade was invented by General Robert Melville [Mr. Nasmyth says it was by Miller
of Dalswinton], who proposed it for discharging 68 lb, shot with low charges of powder, in
order to produce the increased splintering or SMASHING effects which were known to result from
such practice.  The first piece of the kind was cast at the Carron Foundry, in 1779, and General
Melville's family have now in their possession a small model of this gun, with the inscription:--"Gift
of the Carron Company to Lieutenant-general Melville, inventor of the smashers and lesser carronades,
for solid, ship, shell, and carcass shot, &c.  First used against French ships in 1779."

[3] Wilkie the painter once paid him a visit there while in Scotland studying the subject of
his "Penny Wedding;" and Dugald Stewart found for him the old farm-house with the cradle-chimney,
which he introduced in that picture.  But Kinneil House has had its imaginary inhabitants as
well as its real ones, the ghost of a Lady Lilburn, once an occupant of the place, still "haunting"
some of the unoccupied chambers.  Dugald Stewart told Wilkie one night, as he was going to
bed, of the unearthly wailings which he himself had heard proceeding from the ancient apartments;
but to him at least they had been explained by the door opening out upon the roof being blown
in on gusty nights, when a jarring and creaking noise was heard all over the house.  One advantage
derived from the house being "haunted" was, that the garden was never broken into, and the
winter apples and stores were at all times kept safe from depredation in the apartments of
the Lady Lilburn.

[4] Dr. Roebuck had been on the brink of great good fortune, but he did not know it.  Mr. Ralph
Moore, in his "Papers on the Blackband Ironstones" (Glasgow, 1861), observes:--"Strange to
say, he was leaving behind him, almost as the roof of one of the seams of coal which he worked,
a valuable blackband ironstone, upon which Kinneil Iron Works are now founded.  The coal-field
continued to be worked until the accidental discovery of the blackband about 1845.  The old
coal-pits are now used for working the ironstone."

[5] The Mushets are an old Kincardine family; but they were almost extinguished by the plague
in the reign of Charles the Second.  Their numbers were then reduced to two; one of whom remained
at Kincardine, and the other, a clergyman, the Rev. George Mushet, accompanied Montrose as
chaplain.  He is buried in Kincardine churchyard.

[6] Papers on Iron and Steel.  By David Mushet.  London, 1840.

[7] This valuable description of iron ore was discovered by Mr. Mushet, as he afterwards informs
us (Papers on Iron and Steel, 121), in the year 1801, when crossing the river Calder, in the
parish of Old Monkland.  Having subjected a specimen which he found in the river-bed to the
test of his crucible, he satisfied himself as to its properties, and proceeded to ascertain
its geological position and relations.  He shortly found that it belonged to the upper part
of the coal-formation, and hence he designated it carboniferous ironstone.  He prosecuted his
researches, and found various rich beds of the mineral distributed throughout the western counties
of Scotland.  On analysis, it was found to contain a little over 50 per cent.  of protoxide
of iron.  The coaly matter it contained was not its least valuable ingredient; for by the aid
of the hot blast it was afterwards found practicable to smelt it almost without any addition
of coal.  Seams of black band have since been discovered and successfully worked in Edinburghshire,
Staffordshire, and North Wales.

"Whilst the exploits of the conqueror and the intrigues of the demagogue are faithfully preserved
through a succession of ages, the persevering and unobtrusive efforts of genius, developing
the best blessings of the Deity to man, are often consigned to oblivion."--David Mushet.

The extraordinary value of the Black Band ironstone was not at first duly recognised, perhaps
not even by Mr. Mushet himself.  For several years after its discovery by him, its use was
confined to the Calder Iron Works, where it was employed in mixture with other ironstones of
the argillaceous class.  It was afterwards partially used at the Clyde Iron Works, but nowhere
else, a strong feeling of prejudice being entertained against it on the part of the iron trade
generally.  It was not until the year 1825 that the Monkland Company used it alone, without
any other mixture than the necessary quantity of limestone for a flux.  "The success of this
Company," says Mr. Mushet, "soon gave rise to the Gartsherrie and Dundyvan furnaces, in the
midst of which progress came the use of raw pit-coal and the Hot Blast--the latter one of the
greatest discoveries in metallurgy of the present age, and, above every other process, admirably
adapted for smelting the Blackband ironstone."  From the introduction of this process the extraordinary
development of the iron-manufacture of Scotland may be said to date; and we accordingly propose
to devote the present chapter to an account of its meritorious inventor.

James Beaumont Neilson was born at Shettleston, a roadside village about three miles eastward
of Glasgow, on the 22nd of June, 1792.  His parents belonged to the working class.  His father's
earnings during many laborious years of his life did not exceed sixteen shillings a week. 
He had been bred to the trade of a mill-wright, and was for some time in the employment of
Dr. Roebuck as an engine-wright at his colliery near Boroughstoness.  He was next employed
in a like capacity by Mr. Beaumont, the mineral-manager of the collieries of Mrs. Cunningham
of Lainshaw, near Irvine in Ayrshire; after which he was appointed engine-wright at Ayr, and
subsequently at the Govan Coal Works near Glasgow, where he remained until his death.  It was
while working at the Irvine Works that he first became acquainted with his future wife, Marion
Smith, the daughter of a Renfrewshire bleacher, a woman remarkable through life for her clever,
managing, and industrious habits.  She had the charge of Mrs. Cunningham's children for some
time after the marriage of that lady to Mr. Beaumont, and it was in compliment to her former
mistress and her husband that she named her youngest son James Beaumont after the latter.

The boy's education was confined to the common elements of reading, writing, and arithmetic,
which he partly acquired at the parish school of Strathbungo near Glasgow, and partly at the
Chapel School, as it was called, in the Gorbals at Glasgow.  He had finally left school before
he was fourteen.  Some time before he left, he had been partially set to work, and earned four
shillings a week by employing a part of each day in driving a small condensing engine which
his father had put up in a neighbouring quarry.  After leaving school, he was employed for
two years as a gig boy on one of the winding engines at the Govan colliery. His parents now
considered him of fit age to be apprenticed to some special trade, and as Beaumont had much
of his father's tastes for mechanical pursuits, it was determined to put him apprentice to
a working engineer.  His elder brother John was then acting as engineman at Oakbank near Glasgow,
and Beaumont was apprenticed under him to learn the trade.  John was a person of a studious
and serious turn of mind, and had been strongly attracted to follow the example of the brothers
Haldane, who were then exciting great interest by their preaching throughout the North; but
his father set his face against his son's "preaching at the back o' dikes," as he called it;
and so John quietly settled down to his work.  The engine which the two brothers managed was
a very small one, and the master and apprentice served for engineman and fireman.  Here the
youth worked for three years, employing his leisure hours in the evenings in remedying the
defects of his early education, and endeavouring to acquire a knowledge of English grammar,
drawing, and mathematics.

On the expiry of his apprenticeship, Beaumont continued for a time to work under his brother
as journeyman at a guinea a week; after which, in 1814, he entered the employment of William
Taylor, coal-master at Irvine, and he was appointed engine-wright of the colliery at a salary
of from 70L. to 80L. a year.  One of the improvements which he introduced in the working of
the colliery, while he held that office, was the laying down of an edge railway of cast-iron,
in lengths of three feet, from the pit to the harbour of Irvine, a distance of three miles.
At the age of 23 he married his first wife, Barbara Montgomerie, an Irvine lass, with a "tocher"
of 250L.  This little provision was all the more serviceable to him, as his master, Taylor,
becoming unfortunate in business, he was suddenly thrown out of employment, and the little
fortune enabled the newly-married pair to hold their heads above water till better days came
round.  They took a humble tenement, consisting of a room and a kitchen, in the Cowcaddens,
Glasgow, where their first child was born.

About this time a gas-work, the first in Glasgow, was projected, and the company having been
formed, the directors advertised for a superintendent and foreman, to whom they offered a "liberal
salary." Though Beaumont had never seen gaslight before, except at the illumination of his
father's colliery office after the Peace of Amiens, which was accomplished in a very simple
and original manner, without either condenser, purifier, or gas-holder, and though he knew
nothing of the art of gas-making, he had the courage to apply for the situation.  He was one
of twenty candidates, and the fortunate one; and in August, 1817, we find him appointed foreman
of the Glasgow Gasworks, for five years, at the salary of 90L. a year.  Before the expiry of
his term he was reappointed for six years more, at the advanced salary of 200L., with the status
of manager and engineer of the works.  His salary was gradually increased to 400L. a year,
with a free dwelling-house, until 1847, when, after a faithful service of thirty years, during
which he had largely extended the central works, and erected branch works in Tradeston and
Partick, he finally resigned the management.

The situation of manager of the Glasgow Gas-works was in many respects well suited for the
development of Mr. Neilson's peculiar abilities. In the first place it afforded him facilities
for obtaining theoretical as well as practical knowledge in Chemical Science, of which he was
a diligent student at the Andersonian University, as well as of Natural Philosophy and Mathematics
in their higher branches.  In the next place it gave free scope for his ingenuity in introducing
improvements in the manufacture of gas, then in its infancy.  He was the first to employ clay
retorts; and he introduced sulphate of iron as a self-acting purifier, passing the gas through
beds of charcoal to remove its oily and tarry elements.  The swallow-tail or union jet was
also his invention, and it has since come into general use.

While managing the Gas-works, one of Mr. Neilson's labours of love was the establishment and
direction by him of a Workmen's Institution for mutual improvement.  Having been a workman
himself, and experienced the disadvantages of an imperfect education in early life, as well
as the benefits arising from improved culture in later years, he desired to impart some of
these advantages to the workmen in his employment, who consisted chiefly of persons from remote
parts of the Highlands or from Ireland.  Most of them could not even read, and his principal
difficulty consisted in persuading them that it was of any use to learn.  For some time they
resisted his persuasions to form a Workmen's Institution, with a view to the establishment
of a library, classes, and lectures, urging as a sufficient plea for not joining it, that they
could not read, and that books would be of no use to them.  At last Mr. Neilson succeeded,
though with considerable difficulty, in inducing fourteen of the workmen to adopt his plan.
Each member was to contribute a small sum monthly, to be laid out in books, the Gas Company
providing the members with a comfortable room in which they might meet to read and converse
in the evenings instead of going to the alehouse.  The members were afterwards allowed to take
the books home to read, and the room was used for the purpose of conversation on the subjects
of the books read by them, and occasionally for lectures delivered by the members themselves
on geography, arithmetic, chemistry, and mechanics.  Their numbers increased so that the room
in which they met became insufficient for their accommodation, when the Gas Company provided
them with a new and larger place of meeting, together with a laboratory and workshop.  In the
former they studied practical chemistry, and in the latter they studied practical mechanics,
making for themselves an air pump and an electrifying machine, as well as preparing the various
models used in the course of the lectures.  The effects on the workmen were eminently beneficial,
and the institution came to be cited as among the most valuable of its kind in the kingdom.[1]

Mr. Neilson throughout watched carefully over its working, and exerted himself in all ways
to promote its usefulness, in which he had the zealous co-operation of the leading workmen
themselves, and the gratitude of all.  On the opening of the new and enlarged rooms in 1825,
we find him delivering an admirable address, which was thought worthy of republication, together
with the reply of George Sutherland, one of the workmen, in which Mr. Neilson's exertions as
its founder and chief supporter were gratefully and forcibly expressed.[2]

It was during the period of his connection with the Glasgow Gas-works that Mr. Neilson directed
his attention to the smelting of iron.  His views in regard to the subject were at first somewhat
crude, as appears from a paper read by him before the Glasgow Philosophical Society early in
1825.  It appears that in the course of the preceding year his attention had been called to
the subject by an iron-maker, who asked him if he thought it possible to purify the air blown
into the blast furnaces, in like manner as carburetted hydrogen gas was purified.  The ironmaster
supposed that it was the presence of sulphur in the air that caused blast-furnaces to work
irregularly, and to make bad iron in the summer months.  Mr. Neilson was of opinion that this
was not the true cause, and he was rather disposed to think it attributable to the want of
a due proportion of oxygen in summer, when the air was more rarefied, besides containing more
aqueous vapour than in winter.  He therefore thought the true remedy was in some way or other
to throw in a greater proportion of oxygen; and he suggested that, in order to dry the air,
it should be passed, on its way to the furnace, through two long tunnels containing calcined
lime.  But further inquiry served to correct his views, and eventually led him to the true
theory of blasting.

Shortly after, his attention was directed by Mr. James Ewing to a defect in one of the Muirkirk
blast-furnaces, situated about half a mile distant from the blowing-engine, which was found
not to work so well as others which were situated close to it.  The circumstances of the case
led Mr. Neilson to form the opinion that, as air increases in volume according to temperature,
if he were to heat it by passing it through a red-hot vessel, its volume would be increased,
according to the well-known law, and the blast might thus be enabled to do more duty in the
distant furnace.  He proceeded to make a series of experiments at the Gas-works, trying the
effect of heated air on the illuminating power of gas, by bringing up a stream of it in a tube
so as to surround the gas-burner.  He found that by this means the combustion of the gas was
rendered more intense, and its illuminating power greatly increased.  He proceeded to try a
similar experiment on a common smith's fire, by blowing the fire with heated air, and the effect
was the same; the fire was much more brilliant, and accompanied by an unusually intense degree
of heat.

Having obtained such marked results by these small experiments, it naturally occurred to him
that a similar increase in intensity of combustion and temperature would attend the application
of the process to the blast-furnace on a large scale; but being only a gas-maker, he had the
greatest difficulty in persuading any ironmaster to permit him to make the necessary experiment's
with blast-furnaces actually at work.  Besides, his theory was altogether at variance with
the established practice, which was to supply air as cold as possible, the prevailing idea
being that the coldness of the air in winter was the cause of the best iron being then produced.
Acting on these views, the efforts of the ironmasters had always been directed to the cooling
of the blast, and various expedients were devised for the purpose.  Thus the regulator was
painted white, as being the coolest colour; the air was passed over cold water, and in some
cases the air pipes were even surrounded by ice, all with the object of keeping the blast cold.
When, therefore, Mr. Neilson proposed entirely to reverse the process, and to employ hot instead
of cold blast, the incredulity of the ironmasters may well be imagined.  What!  Neilson, a
mere maker of gas, undertake to instruct practical men in the manufacture of iron!  And to
suppose that heated air can be used for the purpose!  It was presumption in the extreme, or
at best the mere visionary idea of a person altogether unacquainted with the subject!

At length, however, Mr. Neilson succeeded in inducing Mr. Charles Macintosh of Crossbasket,
and Mr. Colin Dunlop of the Clyde Iron Works, to allow him to make a trial of the hot air process.
In the first imperfect attempts the air was heated to little more than 80 degrees Fahrenheit,
yet the results were satisfactory, and the scoriae from the furnace evidently contained less
iron.  He was therefore desirous of trying his plan upon a more extensive scale, with the object,
if possible, of thoroughly establishing the soundness of his principle. In this he was a good
deal hampered even by those ironmasters who were his friends, and had promised him the requisite
opportunities for making a fair trial of the new process.  They strongly objected to his making
the necessary alterations in the furnaces, and he seemed to be as far from a satisfactory experiment
as ever.  In one instance, where he had so far succeeded as to be allowed to heat the blast-main,
he asked permission to introduce deflecting plates in the main or to put a bend in the pipe,
so as to bring the blast more closely against the heated sides of the pipe, and also increase
the area of heating surface, in order to raise the temperature to a higher point; but this
was refused, and it was said that if even a bend were put in the pipe the furnace would stop
working.  These prejudices proved a serious difficulty in the way of our inventor, and several
more years passed before he was allowed to put a bend in the blast-main.  After many years
of perseverance, he was, however, at length enabled to work out his plan into a definite shape
at the Clyde Iron Works, and its practical value was at once admitted.  At the meeting of the
Mechanical Engineers' Society held in May, 1859, Mr. Neilson explained that his invention consisted
solely in the principle of heating the blast between the engine and the furnace, and was not
associated with any particular construction of the intermediate heating apparatus.  This, he
said, was the cause of its success; and in some respects it resembled the invention of his
countryman, James Watt, who, in connection with the steam-engine, invented the plan of condensing
the steam in a separate vessel, and was successful in maintaining his invention by not limiting
it to any particular construction of the condenser.  On the same occasion he took the opportunity
of acknowledging the firmness with which the English ironmasters had stood by him when attempts
were made to deprive him of the benefits of his invention; and to them he acknowledged he was
mainly indebted for the successful issue of the severe contests he had to undergo.  For there
were, of course, certain of the ironmasters, both English and Scotch, supporters of the cause
of free trade in others' inventions, who sought to resist the patent, after it had come into
general use, and had been recognised as one of the most valuable improvements of modern times.[3]

The patent was secured in 1828 for a term of fourteen years; but, as Mr. Neilson did not himself
possess the requisite capital to enable him to perfect the invention, or to defend it if attacked,
he found it necessary to invite other gentlemen, able to support him in these respects, to
share its profits; retaining for himself only three-tenths of the whole.  His partners were
Mr. Charles Macintosh, Mr. Colin Dunlop, and Mr. John Wilson of Dundyvan.  The charge made
by them was only a shilling a ton for all iron produced by the new process; this low rate being
fixed in order to ensure the introduction of the patent into general use, as well as to reduce
to a minimum the temptations of the ironmasters to infringe it.

The first trials of the process were made at the blast-furnaces of Clyde and Calder; from whence
the use of the hot blast gradually extended to the other iron-mining districts.  In the course
of a few years every furnace in Scotland, with one exception (that at Carron), had adopted
the improvement; while it was also employed in half the furnaces of England and Wales, and
in many of the furnaces on the Continent and in America.  In course of time, and with increasing
experience, various improvements were introduced in the process, more particularly in the shape
of the air-heating vessels; the last form adopted being that of a congeries of tubes, similar
to the tubular arrangement in the boiler of the locomotive, by which the greatest extent of
heating surface was provided for the thorough heating of the air.  By these modifications the
temperature of the air introduced into the furnace has been raised from 240 degrees to 600
degrees, or the temperature of melting lead.  To protect the nozzle of the air-pipe as it entered
the furnace against the action of the intense heat to which it was subjected, a spiral pipe
for a stream of cold water constantly to play in has been introduced within the sides of the
iron tuyere through which the nozzle passes; by which means the tuyere is kept comparatively
cool, while the nozzle of the air-pipe is effectually protected.[4]

This valuable invention did not escape the usual fate of successful patents, and it was on
several occasions the subject of protracted litigation.  The first action occurred in 1832;
but the objectors shortly gave in, and renewed their licence.  In 1839, when the process had
become generally adopted throughout Scotland, and, indeed, was found absolutely essential for
smelting the peculiar ores of that country--more especially Mushet's Black Band--a powerful
combination was formed amongst the ironmasters to resist the patent.  The litigation which
ensued extended over five years, during which period some twenty actions were proceeding in
Scotland, and several in England.  Three juries sat upon the subject at different times, and
on three occasions appeals were carried to the House of Lords.  One jury trial occupied ten
days, during which a hundred and two witnesses were examined; the law costs on both sides amounting,
it is supposed, to at least 40,000L.  The result was, that the novelty and merit of Mr. Neilson's
invention were finally established, and he was secured in the enjoyment of the patent right.

We are gratified to add, that, though Mr. Neilson had to part with two-thirds of the profits
of the invention to secure the capital and influence necessary to bring it into general use,
he realized sufficient to enable him to enjoy the evening of his life in peace and comfort.
He retired from active business to an estate which he purchased in 1851 in the Stewartry of
Kirkcudbright, where he is found ready to lend a hand in every good work--whether in agricultural
improvement, railway extension, or the moral and social good of those about him.  Mindful of
the success of his Workmen's Institution at the Glasgow Gas-Works, he has, almost at his own
door, erected a similar Institution for the use of the parish in which his property is situated,
the beneficial effects of which have been very marked in the district.  We may add that Mr.
Neilson's merits have been recognised by many eminent bodies--by the Institution of Civil Engineers,
the Chemical Society, and others--the last honour conferred on him being his election as a
Member of the Royal Society in 1846.

The invention of the hot blast, in conjunction with the discovery of the Black Band ironstone,
has had an extra ordinary effect upon the development of the iron-manufacture of Scotland.
The coals of that country are generally unfit for coking, and lose as much as 55 per cent.
in the process.  But by using the hot blast, the coal could be sent to the blast-furnace in
its raw state, by which a large saving of fuel was effected.[5]  Even coals of an inferior
quality were by its means made available for the manufacture of iron.  But one of the peculiar
qualities of the Black Band ironstone is that in many cases it contains sufficient coaly matter
for purposes of calcination, without any admixture of coal whatever.  Before its discovery,
all the iron manufactured in Scotland was made from clay-band; but the use of the latter has
in a great measure been discontinued wherever a sufficient supply of Black Band can be obtained.
And it is found to exist very extensively in most of the midland Scotch counties,--the coal
and iron measures stretching in a broad belt from the Firth of Forth to the Irish Channel at
the Firth of Clyde.  At the time when the hot blast was invented, the fortunes of many of the
older works were at a low ebb, and several of them had been discontinued; but they were speedily
brought to life again wherever Black Band could be found.  In 1829, the year after Neilson's
patent was taken out, the total make of Scotland was 29,000 tons.  As fresh discoveries of
the mineral were made, in Ayrshire and Lanarkshire, new works were erected, until, in 1845,
we find the production of Scotch pig-iron had increased to 475,000 tons. It has since increased
to upwards of a million of tons, nineteen-twentieths of which are made from Black Band ironstone.[6]

Employment has thus been given to vast numbers of our industrial population, and the wealth
and resources of the Scotch iron districts have been increased to an extraordinary extent.
During the last year there were 125 furnaces in blast throughout Scotland, each employing about
400 men in making an average of 200 tons a week; and the money distributed amongst the workmen
may readily be computed from the fact that, under the most favourable circumstances, the cost
of making iron in wages alone amounts to 36s. a-ton.[7]

An immense additional value was given to all land in which the Black Band was found.  Mr. Mushet
mentions that in 1839 the proprietor of the Airdrie estate derived a royalty of 16,500L. from
the mineral, which had not before its discovery yielded him one farthing.  At the same time,
many fortunes have been made by pushing and energetic men who have of late years entered upon
this new branch of industry.  Amongst these may be mentioned the Bairds of Gartsherrie, who
vie with the Guests and Crawshays of South Wales, and have advanced themselves in the course
of a very few years from the station of small farmers to that of great capitalists owning estates
in many counties, holding the highest character commercial men, and ranking among the largest
employers of labour in the kingdom.

[1] Article by Dugald Bannatyne in Glasgow Mechanic's Magazine, No. 53, Dec. 1824.

[2] Glasgow Mechanic's Magazine, vol. iii. p. 159.

[3] Mr. Mushet described it as "a wonderful discovery," and one of the "most novel and beautiful
improvements in his time."  Professor Gregory of Aberdeen characterized it as "the greatest
improvement with which he was acquainted."  Mr. Jessop, an extensive English iron manufacturer,
declared it to be "of as great advantage in the iron trade as Arkwright's machinery was in
the cotton-spinning trade"; and Mr. Fairbairn, in his contribution on "Iron" in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, says that it "has effected an entire revolution in the iron industry of Great Britain,
and forms the last era in the history of this material."

[4] The invention of the tubular air-vessels and the water-tuyere belongs, we believe, to Mr.
John Condie, sometime manager of the Blair Iron Works.

[5] Mr. Mushet says, "The greatest produce in iron per furnace with the Black Band and cold
blast never exceeded 60 tons a-week.  The produce per furnace now averages 90 tons a-week.
Ten tons of this I attribute to the use of raw pit-coal, and the other twenty tons to the use
of hot blast."  [Papers on Iron and Steel, 127.] The produce per furnace is now 200 tons a-week
and upwards.  The hot blast process was afterwards applied to the making of iron with the anthracite
or stone coal of Wales; for which a patent was taken out by George Crane in 1836. Before the
hot blast was introduced, anthracite coal would not act as fuel in the blast-furnace.  When
put in, it merely had the effect of putting the fire out.  With the aid of the hot blast, however,
it now proves to be a most valuable fuel in smelting.

[6] It is stated in the North British Review for Nov. 1845, that "As in Scotland every furnace--with
the exception of one at Carron--now uses the hot blast the saving on our present produce of
400,000 tons of pig-iron is 2,000,000 tons of coals, 200,000 tons of limestone, and #650,000
sterling per annum."  But as the Scotch produce is now above a million tons of pig-iron a year,
the above figures will have to be multiplied by 2 1/2 to give the present annual savings.

[7] Papers read by Mr. Ralph Moore, Mining Engineer, Glasgow, before the Royal Scottish Society
of Arts, Edin. 1861, pp. 13, 14.

CHAPTER X.

MECHANICAL INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS.

"L'invention nest-elle pas la poesie de la science? . . .  Toutes les grandes decouvertes portent
avec elles la trace ineffacable d'une pensee poetique.  Il faut etre poete pour creer.  Aussi,
sommes-nous convaincus que si les puissantes machines, veritable source de la production et
de l'industrie de nos jours, doivent recevoir des modifications radicales, ce sera a des hommes
d'imagination, et non point a dea hommes purement speciaux, que l'on devra cette transformation."--E.
M. BATAILLE, Traite des Machines a Vapeur.

Tools have played a highly important part in the history of civilization.  Without tools and
the ability to use them, man were indeed but a "poor, bare, forked animal,"--worse clothed
than the birds, worse housed than the beaver, worse fed than the jackal.  Nowhere do you find
him without tools: without tools he is nothing; with tools he is all."  His very first contrivances
to support life were tools of the simplest and rudest construction; and his latest achievements
in the substitution of machinery for the relief of the human hand and intellect are founded
on the use of tools of a still higher order.  Hence it is not without good reason that man
has by some philosophers been defined as A TOOL-MAKING ANIMAL.

Tools, like everything else, had small beginnings.  With the primitive stone-hammer and chisel
very little could be done.  The felling of a tree would occupy a workman a month, unless helped
by the destructive action of fire.  Dwellings could not be built, the soil could not be tilled,
clothes could not be fashioned and made, and the hewing out of a boat was so tedious a process
that the wood must have been far gone in decay before it could be launched.  It was a great
step in advance to discover the art of working in metals, more especially in steel, one of
the few metals capable of taking a sharp edge and keeping it.  From the date of this discovery,
working in wood and stone would be found comparatively easy; and the results must speedily
have been felt not only in the improvement of man's daily food, but in his domestic and social
condition.  Clothing could then be made, the primitive forest could be cleared and tillage
carried on; abundant fuel could be obtained, dwellings erected, ships built, temples reared;
every improvement in tools marking a new step in the development of the human intellect, and
a further stage in the progress of human civilization.

The earliest tools were of the simplest possible character, consisting principally of modifications
of the wedge; such as the knife, the shears (formed of two knives working on a joint), the
chisel, and the axe.  These, with the primitive hammer, formed the principal stock-in-trade
of the early mechanics, who were handicraftsmen in the literal sense of the word.  But the
work which the early craftsmen in wood, stone, brass, and iron, contrived to execute, sufficed
to show how much expertness in the handling of tools will serve to compensate for their mechanical
imperfections.  Workmen then sought rather to aid muscular strength than to supersede it, and
mainly to facilitate the efforts of manual skill.  Another tool became added to those mentioned
above, which proved an additional source of power to the workman.  We mean the Saw, which was
considered of so much importance that its inventor was honoured with a place among the gods
in the mythology of the Greeks.  This invention is said to have been suggested by the arrangement
of the teeth in the jaw of a serpent, used by Talus the nephew of Daedalus in dividing a piece
of wood.  From the representations of ancient tools found in the paintings at Herculaneum it
appears that the frame-saw used by the ancients very nearly resembled that still in use; and
we are informed that the tools employed in the carpenters' shops at Nazareth at this day are
in most respects the same as those represented in the buried Roman city. Another very ancient
tool referred to in the Bible and in Homer was the File, which was used to sharpen weapons
and implements.  Thus the Hebrews "had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for
the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads." [1]  When to these we add the adze,
plane-irons, the anger, and the chisel, we sum up the tools principally relied on by the early
mechanics for working in wood and iron.

Such continued to be the chief tools in use down almost to our own day. The smith was at first
the principal tool-maker; but special branches of trade were gradually established, devoted
to tool-making.  So long, however, as the workman relied mainly on his dexterity of hand, the
amount of production was comparatively limited; for the number of skilled workmen was but small.
The articles turned out by them, being the product of tedious manual labour, were too dear
to come into common use, and were made almost exclusively for the richer classes of the community.
It was not until machinery had been invented and become generally adopted that many of the
ordinary articles of necessity and of comfort were produced in sufficient abundance and at
such prices as enabled them to enter into the consumption of the great body of the people.

But every improver of tools had a long and difficult battle to fight; for any improvement in
their effective power was sure to touch the interests of some established craft.  Especially
was this the case with machines, which are but tools of a more complete though complicated
kind than those above described.

Take, for instance, the case of the Saw.  The tedious drudgery of dividing timber by the old
fashioned hand-saw is well known.  To avoid it, some ingenious person suggested that a number
of saws should be fixed to a frame in a mill, so contrived as to work with a reciprocating
motion, upwards and downwards, or backwards and forwards, and that this frame so mounted should
be yoked to the mill wheel, and the saws driven by the power of wind or water.  The plan was
tried, and, as may readily be imagined, the amount of effective work done by this machine-saw
was immense, compared with the tedious process of sawing by hand.

It will be observed, however, that the new method must have seriously interfered with the labour
of the hand-sawyers; and it was but natural that they should regard the establishment of the
saw-mills with suspicion and hostility.  Hence a long period elapsed before the hand-sawyers
would permit the new machinery to be set up and worked. The first saw-mill in England was erected
by a Dutchman, near London, in 1663, but was shortly abandoned in consequence of the determined
hostility of the workmen.  More than a century passed before a second saw-mill was set up;
when, in 1767, Mr. John Houghton, a London timber-merchant, by the desire and with the approbation
of the Society of Arts, erected one at Limehouse, to be driven by wind.  The work was directed
by one James Stansfield, who had gone over to Holland for the purpose of learning the art of
constructing and managing the sawing machinery.  But the mill was no sooner erected than a
mob assembled and razed it to the ground.  The principal rioters having been punished, and
the loss to the proprietor having been made good by the nation, a new mill was shortly after
built, and it was suffered to work without further molestation.

Improved methods of manufacture have usually had to encounter the same kind of opposition.
Thus, when the Flemish weavers came over to England in the seventeenth century, bringing with
them their skill and their industry, they excited great jealousy and hostility amongst the
native workmen.  Their competition as workmen was resented as an injury, but their improved
machinery was regarded as a far greater source of mischief.  In a memorial presented to the
king in 1621 we find the London weavers complaining of the foreigners' competition, but especially
that "they have made so bould of late as to devise engines for working of tape, lace, ribbin,
and such like, wherein one man doth more among them than 7 Englishe men can doe; so as their
cheap sale of commodities beggereth all our Englishe artificers of that trade, and enricheth
them." [2]

At a much more recent period new inventions have had to encounter serious rioting and machine-breaking
fury.  Kay of the fly-shuttle, Hargreaves of the spinning-jenny, and Arkwright of the spinning-frame,
all had to fly from Lancashire, glad to escape with their lives. Indeed, says Mr. Bazley, "so
jealous were the people, and also the legislature, of everything calculated to supersede men's
labour, that when the Sankey Canal, six miles long, near Warrington, was authorized about the
middle of last century, it was on the express condition that the boats plying on it should
be drawn by men only!" [3]  Even improved agricultural tools and machines have had the same
opposition to encounter; and in our own time bands of rural labourers have gone from farm to
farm breaking drill-ploughs, winnowing, threshing, and other machines, down even to the common
drills,--not perceiving that if their policy had proved successful, and tools could have been
effectually destroyed, the human race would at once have been reduced to their teeth and nails,
and civilization summarily abolished.[4]  It is, no doubt, natural that the ordinary class
of workmen should regard with prejudice, if not with hostility, the introduction of machines
calculated to place them at a disadvantage and to interfere with their usual employments; for
to poor and not very far-seeing men the loss of daily bread is an appalling prospect.  But
invention does not stand still on that account.  Human brains WILL work.  Old tools are improved
and new ones invented, superseding existing methods of production, though the weak and unskilled
may occasionally be pushed aside or even trodden under foot.  The consolation which remains
is, that while the few suffer, society as a whole is vastly benefitted by the improved methods
of production which are suggested, invented, and perfected by the experience of successive
generations.

The living race is the inheritor of the industry and skill of all past times; and the civilization
we enjoy is but the sum of the useful effects of labour during the past centuries.  Nihil per
saltum.  By slow and often painful steps Nature's secrets have been mastered.  Not an effort
has been made but has had its influence.  For no human labour is altogether lost; some remnant
of useful effect surviving for the benefit of the race, if not of the individual.  Even attempts
apparently useless have not really been so, but have served in some way to advance man to higher
knowledge, skill, or discipline.  "The loss of a position gained," says Professor Thomson,
"is an event unknown in the history of man's struggle with the forces of inanimate nature."
A single step won gives a firmer foothold for further effort.  The man may die, but the race
survives and continues the work,--to use the poet's simile, mounting on stepping-stones of
dead selves to higher selves.

Philarete Chasles, indeed, holds that it is the Human Race that is your true inventor:  "As
if to unite all generations," he says, "and to show that man can only act efficiently by association
with others, it has been ordained that each inventor shall only interpret the first word of
the problem he sets himself to solve, and that every great idea shall be the RESUME of the
past at the same time that it is the germ of the future."  And rarely does it happen that any
discovery or invention of importance is made by one man alone.  The threads of inquiry are
taken up and traced, one labourer succeeding another, each tracing it a little further, often
without apparent result.  This goes on sometimes for centuries, until at length some man, greater
perhaps than his fellows, seeking to fulfil the needs of his time, gathers the various threads
together, treasures up the gain of past successes and failures, and uses them as the means
for some solid achievement, Thus Newton discovered the law of gravitation, and thus James Watt
invented the steam-engine.  So also of the Locomotive, of which Robert Stephenson said, "It
has not been the invention of any one man, but of a race of mechanical engineers."  Or, as
Joseph Bramah observed, in the preamble to his second Lock patent, "Among the number of patents
granted there are comparatively few which can be called original so that it is difficult to
say where the boundary of one ends and where that of another begins."

The arts are indeed reared but slowly; and it was a wise observation of Lord Bacon that we
are too apt to pass those ladders by which they have been reared, and reflect the whole merit
on the last new performer. Thus, what is hailed as an original invention is often found to
be but the result of a long succession of trials and experiments gradually following each other,
which ought rather to be considered as a continuous series of achievements of the human mind
than as the conquest of any single individual.  It has sometimes taken centuries of experience
to ascertain the value of a single fact in its various bearings.  Like man himself, experience
is feeble and apparently purposeless in its infancy, but acquires maturity and strength with
age.  Experience, however, is not limited to a lifetime, but is the stored-up wealth and power
of our race.  Even amidst the death of successive generations it is constantly advancing and
accumulating, exhibiting at the same time the weakness and the power, the littleness and the
greatness of our common humanity.  And not only do we who live succeed to the actual results
of our predecessors' labours,--to their works of learning and of art, their inventions and
discoveries, their tools and machines, their roads, bridges, canals, and railways,--but to
the inborn aptitudes of blood and brain which they bequeath to us, to that "educability," so
to speak, which has been won for us by the labours of many generations, and forms our richest
natural heritage.

The beginning of most inventions is very remote.  The first idea, born within some unknown
brain, passes thence into others, and at last comes forth complete, after a parturition, it
may be, of centuries.  One starts the idea, another developes it, and so on progressively until
at last it is elaborated and worked out in practice; but the first not less than the last is
entitled to his share in the merit of the invention, were it only possible to measure and apportion
it duly. Sometimes a great original mind strikes upon some new vein of hidden power, and gives
a powerful impulse to the inventive faculties of man, which lasts through generations.  More
frequently, however, inventions are not entirely new, but modifications of contrivances previously
known, though to a few, and not yet brought into practical use. Glancing back over the history
of mechanism, we occasionally see an invention seemingly full born, when suddenly it drops
out of sight, and we hear no more of it for centuries.  It is taken up de novo by some inventor,
stimulated by the needs of his time, and falling again upon the track, he recovers the old
footmarks, follows them up, and completes the work.

There is also such a thing as inventions being born before their time--the advanced mind of
one generation projecting that which cannot be executed for want of the requisite means; but
in due process of time, when mechanism has got abreast of the original idea, it is at length
carried out; and thus it is that modern inventors are enabled to effect many objects which
their predecessors had tried in vain to accomplish.  As Louis Napoleon has said, "Inventions
born before their time must remain useless until the level of common intellects rises to comprehend
them."  For this reason, misfortune is often the lot of the inventor before his time, though
glory and profit may belong to his successors.  Hence the gift of inventing not unfrequently
involves a yoke of sorrow.  Many of the greatest inventors have lived neglected and died unrequited,
before their merits could be recognised and estimated.  Even if they succeed, they often raise
up hosts of enemies in the persons whose methods they propose to supersede.  Envy, malice,
and detraction meet them in all their forms; they are assailed by combinations of rich and
unscrupulous persons to wrest from them the profits of their ingenuity; and last and worst
of all, the successful inventor often finds his claims to originality decried, and himself
branded as a copyist and a pirate.

Among the inventions born out of time, and before the world could make adequate use of them,
we can only find space to allude to a few, though they are so many that one is almost disposed
to accept the words of Chaucer as true, that "There is nothing new but what has once been old;"
or, as another writer puts it, "There is nothing new but what has before been known and forgotten;"
or, in the words of Solomon, "The thing that hath been is that which shall be, and there is
no new thing under the sun."  One of the most important of these is the use of Steam, which
was well known to the ancients; but though it was used to grind drugs, to turn a spit, and
to excite the wonder and fear of the credulous, a long time elapsed before it became employed
as a useful motive-power.  The inquiries and experiments on the subject extended through many
ages.  Friar Bacon, who flourished in the thirteenth century, seems fully to have anticipated,
in the following remarkable passage, nearly all that steam could accomplish, as well as the
hydraulic engine and the diving-bell, though the flying machine yet remains to be invented:--

"I will now," says the Friar, "mention some of the wonderful works of art and nature in which
there is nothing of magic, and which magic could not perform.  Instruments may be made by which
the largest ships, with only one man guiding them, will be carried with greater velocity than
if they were full of sailors.  Chariots may be constructed that will move with incredible rapidity,
without the help of animals. Instruments of flying may be formed, in which a man, sitting at
his ease and meditating on any subject, may beat the air with his artificial wings, after the
manner of birds.  A small instrument may be made to raise or depress the greatest weights.
An instrument may be fabricated by which one man may draw a thousand men to him by force and
against their will; as also machines which will enable men to walk at the bottom of seas or
rivers without danger." It is possible that Friar Bacon derived his knowledge of the powers
which he thus described from the traditions handed down of former inventions which had been
neglected and allowed to fall into oblivion; for before the invention of printing, which enabled
the results of investigation and experience to be treasured up in books, there was great risk
of the inventions of one age being lost to the succeeding generations.  Yet Disraeli the elder
is of opinion that the Romans had invented printing without being aware of it; or perhaps the
senate dreaded the inconveniences attending its use, and did not care to deprive a large body
of scribes of their employment.  They even used stereotypes, or immovable printing-types, to
stamp impressions on their pottery, specimens of which still exist. In China the art of printing
is of great antiquity.  Lithography was well known in Germany, by the very name which it still
bears, nearly three hundred years before Senefelder reinvented it; and specimens of the ancient
art are yet to be seen in the Royal Museum at Munich.[5]

Steam-locomotion by sea and land, had long been dreamt of and attempted.  Blasco de Garay made
his experiment in the harbour of Barcelona as early as 1543; Denis Papin made a similar attempt
at Cassel in 1707; but it was not until Watt had solved the problem of the steam-engine that
the idea of the steam-boat could be developed in practice, which was done by Miller of Dalswinton
in 1788.  Sages and poets have frequently foreshadowed inventions of great social moment. Thus
Dr. Darwin's anticipation of the locomotive, in his Botanic Garden, published in 1791, before
any locomotive had been invented, might almost be regarded as prophetic:

      Soon shall thy arm, unconquered Steam! afar
      Drag the slow barge, and drive the rapid car.

Denis Papin first threw out the idea of atmospheric locomotion; and Gauthey, another Frenchman,
in 1782 projected a method of conveying parcels and merchandise by subterraneous tubes,[6]
after the method recently patented and brought into operation by the London Pneumatic Despatch
Company.  The balloon was an ancient Italian invention, revived by Mongolfier long after the
original had been forgotten.  Even the reaping machine is an old invention revived.  Thus Barnabe
Googe, the translator of a book from the German entitled 'The whole Arte and Trade of Husbandrie,'
published in 1577, in the reign of Elizabeth, speaks of the reaping-machine as a worn-out invention--a
thing "which was woont to be used in France.  The device was a lowe kinde of carre with a couple
of wheeles, and the frunt armed with sharpe syckles, whiche, forced by the beaste through the
corne, did cut down al before it.  This tricke," says Googe, "might be used in levell and champion
countreys; but with us it wolde make but ill-favoured woorke." [7]  The Thames Tunnel was thought
an entirely new manifestation of engineering genius; but the tunnel under the Euphrates at
ancient Babylon, and that under the wide mouth of the harbour at Marseilles (a much more difficult
work), show that the ancients were beforehand with us in the art of tunnelling.  Macadamized
roads are as old as the Roman empire; and suspension bridges, though comparatively new in Europe,
have been known in China for centuries.

There is every reason to believe--indeed it seems clear that the Romans knew of gunpowder,
though they only used it for purposes of fireworks; while the secret of the destructive Greek
fire has been lost altogether.  When gunpowder came to be used for purposes of war, invention
busied itself upon instruments of destruction.  When recently examining the Museum of the Arsenal
at Venice, we were surprised to find numerous weapons of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
embodying the most recent English improvements in arms, such as revolving pistols, rifled muskets,
and breech-loading cannon.  The latter, embodying Sir William Armstrong's modern idea, though
in a rude form, had been fished up from the bottom of the Adriatic, where the ship armed with
them had been sunk hundreds of years ago.  Even Perkins's steam-gun was an old invention revived
by Leonardo da Vinci and by him attributed to Archimedes.[8]  The Congreve rocket is said to
have an Eastern origin, Sir William Congreve having observed its destructive effects when employed
by the forces under Tippoo Saib in the Mahratta war, on which he adopted and improved the missile,
and brought out the invention as his own.

Coal-gas was regularly used by the Chinese for lighting purposes long before it was known amongst
us.  Hydropathy was generally practised by the Romans, who established baths wherever they
went.  Even chloroform is no new thing.  The use of ether as an anaesthetic was known to Albertus
Magnus, who flourished in the thirteenth century; and in his works he gives a recipe for its
preparation.  In 1681 Denis Papin published his Traite des Operations sans Douleur, showing
that he had discovered methods of deadening pain.  But the use of anaesthetics is much older
than Albertus Magnus or Papin; for the ancients had their nepenthe and mandragora; the Chinese
their mayo, and the Egyptians their hachisch (both preparations of Cannabis Indica), the effects
of which in a great measure resemble those of chloroform.  What is perhaps still more surprising
is the circumstance that one of the most elegant of recent inventions, that of sun-painting
by the daguerreotype, was in the fifteenth century known to Leonardo da Vinci,[9] whose skill
as an architect and engraver, and whose accomplishments as a chemist and natural philosopher,
have been almost entirely overshadowed by his genius as a painter.[10]  The idea, thus early
born, lay in oblivion until 1760, when the daguerreotype was again clearly indicated in a book
published in Paris, written by a certain Tiphanie de la Roche, under the anagrammatic title
of Giphantie.  Still later, at the beginning of the present century, we find Thomas Wedgwood,
Sir Humphry Davy, and James Watt, making experiments on the action of light upon nitrate of
silver; and only within the last few months a silvered copper-plate has been found amongst
the old household lumber of Matthew Boulton (Watt's partner), having on it a representation
of the old premises at Soho, apparently taken by some such process.[11]

In like manner the invention of the electric telegraph, supposed to be exclusively modern,
was clearly indicated by Schwenter in his Delasements Physico-Mathematiques, published in 1636;
and he there pointed out how two individuals could communicate with each other by means of
the magnetic needle.  A century later, in 1746, Le Monnier exhibited a series of experiments
in the Royal Gardens at Paris, showing how electricity could be transmitted through iron wire
950 fathoms in length; and in 1753 we find one Charles Marshall publishing a remarkable description
of the electric telegraph in the Scots Magazine, under the title of 'An expeditions Method
of conveying Intelligence.' Again, in 1760, we find George Louis Lesage, professor of mathematics
at Geneva, promulgating his invention of an electric telegraph, which he eventually completed
and set to work in 1774.  This instrument was composed of twenty-four metallic wires, separate
from each other and enclosed in a non-conducting substance.  Each wire ended in a stalk mounted
with a little ball of elder-wood suspended by a silk thread.  When a stream of electricity,
no matter how slight., was sent through the wire, the elder-ball at the opposite end was repelled,
such movement designating some letter of the alphabet.  A few years later we find Arthur Young,
in his Travels in France, describing a similar machine invented by a M. Lomond of Paris, the
action of which he also describes.[12]  In these and similar cases, though the idea was born
and the model of the invention was actually made, it still waited the advent of the scientific
mechanical inventor who should bring it to perfection, and embody it in a practical working form.

Some of the most valuable inventions have descended to us without the names of their authors
having been preserved.  We are the inheritors of an immense legacy of the results of labour
and ingenuity, but we know not the names of our benefactors.  Who invented the watch as a measurer
of time? Who invented the fast and loose pulley? Who invented the eccentric? Who, asks a mechanical
inquirer,[13] "invented the method of cutting screws with stocks and dies? Whoever he might
be, he was certainly a great benefactor of his species.  Yet (adds the writer) his name is
not known, though the invention has been so recent."  This is not, however, the case with most
modern inventions, the greater number of which are more or less disputed.  Who was entitled
to the merit of inventing printing has never yet been determined.  Weber and Senefelder both
laid claim to the invention of lithography, though it was merely an old German art revived.
Even the invention of the penny-postage system by Sir Rowland Hill is disputed; Dr. Gray of
the British Museum claiming to be its inventor, and a French writer alleging it to be an old
French invention.[14]  The invention of the steamboat has been claimed on behalf of Blasco
de Garay, a Spaniard, Papin, a Frenchman, Jonathan Hulls, an Englishman, and Patrick Miller
of Dalswinton, a Scotchman.  The invention of the spinning machine has been variously attributed
to Paul, Wyatt, Hargreaves, Higley, and Arkwright.  The invention of the balance-spring was
claimed by Huyghens, a Dutchman, Hautefeuille, a Frenchman, and Hooke, an Englishman.  There
is scarcely a point of detail in the locomotive but is the subject of dispute. Thus the invention
of the blast-pipe is claimed for Trevithick, George Stephenson, Goldsworthy Gurney, and Timothy
Hackworth; that of the tubular boiler by Seguin, Stevens, Booth, and W.  H.  James; that of
the link-motion by John Gray, Hugh Williams, and Robert Stephenson.

Indeed many inventions appear to be coincident.  A number of minds are working at the same
time in the same track, with the object of supplying some want generally felt; and, guided
by the same experience, they not unfrequently arrive at like results.  It has sometimes happened
that the inventors have been separated by great distances, so that piracy on the part of either
was impossible.  Thus Hadley and Godfrey almost simultaneously invented the quadrant, the one
in London, the other in Philadelphia; and the process of electrotyping was invented at the
same time by Mr. Spencer, a working chemist at Liverpool, and by Professor Jacobi at St.  Petersburg.
The safety-lamp was a coincident invention, made about the same time by Sir Humphry Davy and
George Stephenson; and perhaps a still more remarkable instance of a coincident discovery was
that of the planet Neptune by Leverrier at Paris, and by Adams at Cambridge.

It is always difficult to apportion the due share of merit which belongs to mechanical inventors,
who are accustomed to work upon each other's hints and suggestions, as well as by their own
experience. Some idea of this difficulty may be formed from the fact that, in the course of
our investigations as to the origin of the planing machine--one of the most useful of modern
tools--we have found that it has been claimed on behalf of six inventors--Fox of Derby, Roberts
of Manchester, Matthew Murray of Leeds, Spring of Aberdeen, Clement and George Rennie of London;
and there may be other claimants of whom we have not yet heard.  But most mechanical inventions
are of a very composite character, and are led up to by the labour and the study of a long
succession of workers.  Thus Savary and Newcomen led up to Watt; Cugnot, Murdock, and Trevithick
to the Stephensons; and Maudslay to Clement, Roberts, Nasmyth, Whitworth, and many more mechanical
inventors.  There is scarcely a process in the arts but has in like manner engaged mind after
mind in bringing it to perfection.  "There is nothing," says Mr. Hawkshaw, "really worth having
that man has obtained, that has not been the result of a combined and gradual process of investigation.
A gifted individual comes across some old footmark, stumbles on a chain of previous research
and inquiry.  He meets, for instance, with a machine, the result of much previous labour; he
modifies it, pulls it to pieces, constructs and reconstructs it, and by further trial and experiment
he arrives at the long sought-for result." [15]

But the making of the invention is not the sole difficulty.  It is one thing to invent, said
Sir Marc Brunel, and another thing to make the invention work.  Thus when Watt, after long
labour and study, had brought his invention to completion, he encountered an obstacle which
has stood in the way of other inventors, and for a time prevented the introduction of their
improvements, if not led to their being laid aside and abandoned.  This was the circumstance
that the machine projected was so much in advance of the mechanical capability of the age that
it was with the greatest difficulty it could be executed. When labouring upon his invention
at Glasgow, Watt was baffled and thrown into despair by the clumsiness and incompetency of
his workmen. Writing to Dr. Roebuck on one occasion, he said, "You ask what is the principal
hindrance in erecting engines? It is always the smith-work." His first cylinder was made by
a whitesmith, of hammered iron soldered together, but having used quicksilver to keep the cylinder
air-tight, it dropped through the inequalities into the interior, and "played the devil with
the solder."  Yet, inefficient though the whitesmith was, Watt could ill spare him, and we
find him writing to Dr. Roebuck almost in despair, saying, "My old white-iron man is dead!"
feeling his loss to be almost irreparable.  His next cylinder was cast and bored at Carron,
but it was so untrue that it proved next to useless.  The piston could not be kept steam tight,
notwithstanding the various expedients which were adopted of stuffing it with paper, cork,
putty, pasteboard, and old hat.  Even after Watt had removed to Birmingham, and he had the
assistance of Boulton's best workmen, Smeaton expressed the opinion, when he saw the engine
at work, that notwithstanding the excellence of the invention, it could never be brought into
general use because of the difficulty of getting its various parts manufactured with sufficient
precision.  For a long time we find Watt, in his letters, complaining to his partner of the
failure of his engines through "villainous bad workmanship." Sometimes the cylinders, when
cast, were found to be more than an eighth of an inch wider at one end than the other; and
under such circumstances it was impossible the engine could act with precision.  Yet better
work could not be had. First-rate workmen in machinery did not as yet exist; they were only
in process of education.  Nearly everything had to be done by hand.  The tools used were of
a very imperfect kind.  A few ill-constructed lathes, with some drills and boring-machines
of a rude sort, constituted the principal furniture of the workshop.  Years after, when Brunel
invented his block-machines, considerable time elapsed before he could find competent mechanics
to construct them, and even after they had been constructed he had equal difficulty in finding
competent hands to work them.[16]

Watt endeavoured to remedy the defect by keeping certain sets of workmen to special classes
of work, allowing them to do nothing else. Fathers were induced to bring up their sons at the
same bench with themselves, and initiate them in the dexterity which they had acquired by experience;
and at Soho it was not unusual for the same precise line of work to be followed by members
of the same family for three generations.  In this way as great a degree of accuracy of a mechanical
kind was arrived at was practicable under the circumstances.  But notwithstanding all this
care, accuracy of fitting could not be secured so long as the manufacture of steam-engines
was conducted mainly by hand.  There was usually a considerable waste of steam, which the expedients
of chewed paper and greased hat packed outside the piston were insufficient to remedy; and
it was not until the invention of automatic machine-tools by the mechanical engineers about
to be mentioned, that the manufacture of the steam-engine became a matter of comparative ease
and certainty.  Watt was compelled to rest satisfied with imperfect results, arising from imperfect
workmanship.  Thus, writing to Dr. Small respecting a cylinder 18 inches in diameter, he said,
"at the worst place the long diameter exceeded the short by only three-eighths of an inch."
How different from the state of things at this day, when a cylinder five feet wide will be
rejected as a piece of imperfect workmanship if it be found to vary in any part more than the
80th part of an inch in diameter!

Not fifty years since it was a matter of the utmost difficulty to set an engine to work, and
sometimes of equal difficulty to keep it going. Though fitted by competent workmen, it often
would not go at all.  Then the foreman of the factory at which it was made was sent for, and
he would almost live beside the engine for a month or more; and after easing her here and screwing
her up there, putting in a new part and altering an old one, packing the piston and tightening
the valves, the machine would at length begot to work.[17]  Now the case is altogether different.
The perfection of modern machine-tools is such that the utmost possible precision is secured,
and the mechanical engineer can calculate on a degree of exactitude that does not admit of
a deviation beyond the thousandth part of an inch.  When the powerful oscillating engines of
the 'Warrior' were put on board that ship, the parts, consisting of some five thousand separate
pieces, were brought from the different workshops of the Messrs. Penn and Sons, where they
had been made by workmen who knew not the places they were to occupy, and fitted together with
such precision that so soon as the steam was raised and let into the cylinders, the immense
machine began as if to breathe and move like a living creature, stretching its huge arms like
a new-born giant, and then, after practising its strength a little and proving its soundness
in body and limb, it started off with the power of above a thousand horses to try its strength
in breasting the billows of the North Sea.

Such are among the triumphs of modern mechanical engineering, due in a great measure to the
perfection of the tools by means of which all works in metal are now fashioned.  These tools
are themselves among the most striking results of the mechanical invention of the day.  They
are automata of the most perfect kind, rendering the engine and machine-maker in a great measure
independent of inferior workmen.  For the machine tools have no unsteady hand, are not careless
nor clumsy, do not work by rule of thumb, and cannot make mistakes.  They will repeat their
operations a thousand times without tiring, or varying one hair's breadth in their action;
and will turn out, without complaining, any quantity of work, all of like accuracy and finish.
Exercising as they do so remarkable an influence on the development of modern industry, we
now propose, so far as the materials at our disposal will admit, to give an account of their
principal inventors, beginning with the school of Bramah.

[1] 1 Samuel, ch. xiii. v. 21.

[2] State Papers, Dom. 1621, Vol. 88, No. 112.

[3] Lectures on the Results of the Great Exhibition of 1851, 2nd Series, 117.

[4] Dr. Kirwan, late President of the Royal Irish Academy, who had travelled much on the continent
of Europe, used to relate, when speaking of the difficulty of introducing improvements in the
arts and manufactures, and of the prejudices entertained for old practices, that, in Normandy,
the farmers had been so long accustomed to the use of plough's whose shares were made entirely
of WOOD that they could not be prevailed on to make trial of those with IRON; that they considered
them to be an idle and useless innovation on the long-established practices of their ancestors;
and that they carried these prejudices so far as to force the government to issue an edict
on the subject.  And even to the last they were so obstinate in their attachment to ploughshares
of wood that a tumultuous opposition was made to the enforcement of the edict, which for a
short time threatened a rebellion in the province.--PARKES, Chemical Essays, 4th Ed. 473.

[5] EDOUARD FOURNIER, Vieux-Neuf, i. 339.

[6] Memoires de l' Academie des Sciences, 6 Feb. 1826.

[7] Farmer's Magazine, 1817, No. ixxi. 291.

[8] Vieux-Neuf, i. 228; Inventa Nova-Antiqua, 742.

[9] Vieux-Neuf, i. 19.  See also Inventa Nova-Antiqua, 803.

[10] Mr. Hallam, in his Introduction to the History of Europe, pronounces the following remarkable
eulogium on this extraordinary genius:--"If any doubt could be harboured, not only as to the
right of Leonardo da Vinci to stand as 'the first name of the fifteenth century, which is beyond
all doubt, but as to his originality in so many discoveries, which probably no one man, especially
in such circumstances, has ever made, it must be on an hypothesis not very untenable, that
some parts of physical science had already attained a height which mere books do not record."
"Unpublished MSS. by Leonardo contain discoveries and anticipations of discoveries," says Mr.
Hallam, "within the compass of a few pages, so as to strike us with something like the awe
of preternatural knowledge."

[11] The plate is now to be seen at the Museum of Patents at South Kensington.  In the account
which has been published of the above discovery it is stated that "an old man of ninety (recently
dead or still alive) recollected, or recollects, that Watt and others used to take portraits
of people in a dark (?) room; and there is a letter extant of Sir William Beechey, begging
the Lunar Society to desist from these experiments, as, were the process to succeed, it would
ruin portrait-painting."

[12] "16th Oct. 1787.  In the evening to M. Lomond, a very ingenious and inventive mechanic,
who has made an improvement of the jenny for spinning cotton.  Common machines are said to
make too hard a thread for certain fabrics, but this forms it loose and spongy.  In electricity
he has made a remarkable discovery:  you write two or three words on a paper; he takes it with
him into a room, and turns a machine inclosed in a cylindrical case, at the top of which is
an electrometer, a small fine pith ball; a wire connects with a similar cylinder and electrometer
in a distant apartment; and his wife, by remarking the corresponding motions of the ball, writes
down the words they indicate; from which it appears that he has formed an alphabet of motions.
As the length of the wire makes no difference in the effect, a correspondence might be carried
on at any distance: within and without a besieged town, for instance; or for a purpose much
more worthy, and a thousand times more harmless, between two lovers prohibited or prevented
from any better connexion.  Whatever the use may be, the invention is beautiful."--Arthur Young's
Travels in France in 1787-8-9. London, 1792, 4to. ed. p. 65.

[13] Mechanic's Magazine, 4th Feb. 1859.

[14] A writer in the Monde says:--"The invention of postage-stamps is far from being so modern
as is generally supposed.  A postal regulation in France of the year 1653, which has recently
come to light, gives notice of the creation of pre-paid tickets to be used for Paris instead
of money payments.  These tickets were to be dated and attached to the letter or wrapped round
it, in such a manner that the postman could remove and retain them on delivering the missive.
These franks were to be sold by the porters of the convents, prisons, colleges, and other public
institutions, at the price of one sou."

[15] Inaugural Address delivered before the Institution of Civil Engineers, 14th Jan. 1862.

[16] BEAMISH'S Memoir of Sir I. M. Brunel, 79, 80.

[17] There was the same clumsiness in all kinds of mill-work before the introduction of machine-tools.
We have heard of a piece of machinery of the old school, the wheels of which, when set to work,
made such a clatter that the owner feared the engine would fall to pieces.  The foreman who
set it agoing, after working at it until he was almost in despair, at last gave it up, saving,
"I think we had better leave the cogs to settle their differences with one another:  they will
grind themselves right in time!"

CHAPTER XI.

JOSEPH BRAMAH.

"The great Inventor is one who has walked forth upon the industrial world, not from universities,
but from hovels; not as clad in silks and decked with honours, but as clad in fustian and grimed
with soot and oil."--ISAAC TAYLOR, Ultimate Civilization.  The inventor, however, is not a
creator like the poet, but chiefly a finder-out.  His power consists in a great measure in
quick perception and accurate observation, and in seeing and foreseeing the effects of certain
mechanical combinations.  He must possess the gift of insight, as well as of manual dexterity,
combined with the indispensable qualities of patience and perseverance,--for though baffled,
as he often is, he must be ready to rise up again unconquered even in the moment of defeat.
This is the stuff of which the greatest inventors have been made.  The subject of the following
memoir may not be entitled to take rank as a first-class inventor, though he was a most prolific
one; but, as the founder of a school from which proceeded some of the most distinguished mechanics
of our time, he is entitled to a prominent place in this series of memoirs.

Joseph Bramah was born in 1748 at the village of Stainborough, near Barnsley in Yorkshire,
where his father rented a small farm under Lord Strafford.  Joseph was the eldest of five children,
and was early destined to follow the plough.  After receiving a small amount of education at
the village school, he was set to work upon the farm. From an early period he showed signs
of constructive skill.  When a mere boy, he occupied his leisure hours in making musical instruments,
and he succeeded in executing some creditable pieces of work with very imperfect tools.  A
violin, which he made out of a solid block of wood, was long preserved as a curiosity.  He
was so fortunate as to make a friend of the village blacksmith, whose smithy he was in the
practice of frequenting.  The smith was an ingenious workman, and, having taken a liking for
the boy, he made sundry tools for him out of old files and razor blades; and with these his
fiddle and other pieces of work were mainly executed.

Joseph might have remained a ploughman for life, but for an accident which happened to his
right ankle at the age of 16, which unfitted him for farm-work.  While confined at home disabled
he spent his time in carving and making things in wood; and then it occurred to him that, though
he could not now be a ploughman, he might be a mechanic.  When sufficiently recovered, he was
accordingly put apprentice to one Allott, the village carpenter, under whom he soon became
an expert workman.  He could make ploughs, window-frames, or fiddles, with equal dexterity.
He also made violoncellos, and was so fortunate as to sell one of his making for three guineas,
which is still reckoned a good instrument.  He doubtless felt within him the promptings of
ambition, such as every good workman feels, and at all events entertained the desire of rising
in his trade.  When his time was out, he accordingly resolved to seek work in London, whither
he made the journey on foot. He soon found work at a cabinet-maker's, and remained with him
for some time, after which he set up business in a very small way on his own account.  An accident
which happened to him in the course of his daily work, again proved his helper, by affording
him a degree of leisure which he at once proceeded to turn to some useful account.  Part of
his business consisted in putting up water-closets, after a method invented or improved by
a Mr. Allen; but the article was still very imperfect; and Bramah had long resolved that if
he could only secure some leisure for the purpose, he would contrive something that should
supersede it altogether.  A severe fall which occurred to him in the course of his business,
and laid him up, though very much against his will, now afforded him the leisure which he desired,
and he proceeded to make his proposed invention.  He took out a patent for it in 1778, describing
himself in the specification as "of Cross Court, Carnaby Market [Golden Square], Middlesex,
Cabinet Maker."  He afterwards removed to a shop in Denmark Street, St.  Giles's, and while
there he made a further improvement in his invention by the addition of a water cock, which
he patented in 1783.  The merits of the machine were generally recognised, and before long
it came into extensive use, continuing to be employed, with but few alterations, until the
present day.  His circumstances improving with the increased use of his invention, Bramah proceeded
to undertake the manufacture of the pumps, pipes, &c., required for its construction; and,
remembering his friend the Yorkshire blacksmith, who had made his first tools for him out of
the old files and razor-blades, he sent for him to London to take charge of his blacksmith's
department, in which he proved a most useful assistant.  As usual, the patent was attacked
by pirates so soon as it became productive, and Bramah was under the necessity, on more than
one occasion, of defending his property in the invention, in which he was completely successful.

We next find Bramah turning his attention to the invention of a lock that should surpass all
others then known.  The locks then in use were of a very imperfect character, easily picked
by dexterous thieves, against whom they afforded little protection.  Yet locks are a very ancient
invention, though, as in many other cases, the art of making them seems in a great measure
to have become lost, and accordingly had to be found out anew.  Thus the tumbler lock--which
consists in the use of moveable impediments acted on by the proper key only, as contradistinguished
from the ordinary ward locks, where the impediments are fixed--appears to have been well known
to the ancient Egyptians, the representation of such a lock being found sculptured among the
bas-reliefs which decorate the great temple at Karnak.  This kind of lock was revived, or at
least greatly improved, by a Mr. Barron in 1774, and it was shortly after this time that Bramah
directed his attention to the subject.  After much study and many experiments, he contrived
a lock more simple, more serviceable, as well as more secure, than Barron's, as is proved by
the fact that it has stood the test of nearly eighty years' experience,[1] and still holds
its ground.  For a long time, indeed, Bramah's lock was regarded as absolutely inviolable,
and it remained unpicked for sixty-seven years until Hobbs the American mastered it in 1851.
A notice had long been exhibited in Bramah's shop-window in Piccadilly, offering 200L. to any
one who should succeed in picking the patent lock.  Many tried, and all failed, until Hobbs
succeeded, after sixteen days' manipulation of it with various elaborate instruments.  But
the difficulty with which the lock was picked showed that, for all ordinary purposes, it might
be pronounced impregnable.

The new locks were machines of the most delicate kind, the action of which depended in a great
measure upon the precision with which the springs, sliders, levers, barrels, and other parts
were finished.  The merits of the invention being generally admitted, there was a considerable
demand for the locks, and the necessity thus arose for inventing a series of original machine-tools
to enable them to be manufactured in sufficient quantities to meet the demand.  It is probable,
indeed, that, but for the contrivance of such tools, the lock could never have come in to general
use, as the skill of hand-workmen, no matter how experienced, could not have been relied upon
for turning out the article with that degree of accuracy and finish in all the parts which
was indispensable for its proper action.  In conducting the manufacture throughout, Bramah
was greatly assisted by Henry Maudslay, his foreman, to whom he was in no small degree indebted
for the contrivance of those tool-machines which enabled him to carry on the business of lock-making
with advantage and profit.

Bramah's indefatigable spirit of invention was only stimulated to fresh efforts by the success
of his lock; and in the course of a few years we find him entering upon a more important and
original line of action than he had yet ventured on.  His patent of 1785 shows the direction
of his studies.  Watt had invented his steam-engine, which was coming into general use; and
the creation of motive-power in various other forms became a favourite subject of inquiry with
inventors.  Bramah's first invention with this object was his Hydrostatic Machine, founded
on the doctrine of the equilibrium of pressure in fluids, as exhibited in the well known 'hydrostatic
paradox.' In his patent of 1785, in which he no longer describes himself as Cabinet maker,
but 'Engine maker' of Piccadilly, he indicated many inventions, though none of them came into
practical use,--such as a Hydrostatical Machine and Boiler, and the application of the power
produced by them to the drawing of carriages, and the propelling of ships by a paddle-wheel
fixed in the stern of the vessel, of which drawings are annexed to the specification; but it
was not until 1795 that he patented his Hydrostatic or Hydraulic Press.

Though the principle on which the Hydraulic Press is founded had long been known, and formed
the subject of much curious speculation, it remained unproductive of results until a comparatively
recent period, when the idea occurred of applying it to mechanical purposes.  A machine of
the kind was indeed proposed by Pascal, the eminent philosopher, in 1664, but more than a century
elapsed before the difficulties in the way of its construction were satisfactorily overcome.
Bramah's machine consists of a large and massive cylinder, in which there works an accurately-fitted
solid piston or plunger.  A forcing-pump of very small bore communicates with the bottom of
the cylinder, and by the action of the pump-handle or lever, exceeding small quantities of
water are forced in succession beneath the piston in the large cylinder, thus gradually raising
it up, and compressing bodies whose bulk or volume it is intended to reduce.  Hence it is most
commonly used as a packing-press, being superior to every other contrivance of the kind that
has yet been invented; and though exercising a prodigious force, it is so easily managed that
a boy can work it.  The machine has been employed on many extraordinary occasions in preference
to other methods of applying power.  Thus Robert Stephenson used it to hoist the gigantic tubes
of the Britannia Bridge into their bed,[2] and Brunel to launch the Great Eastern steamship
from her cradles.  It has also been used to cut bars of iron, to draw the piles driven in forming
coffer dams, and to wrench up trees by the roots, all of which feats it accomplishes with comparative
ease.

The principal difficulty experienced in constructing the hydraulic press before the time of
Bramah arose from the tremendous pressure exercised by the pump, which forced the water through
between the solid piston and the side of the cylinder in which it worked in such quantities
as to render the press useless for practical purposes. Bramah himself was at first completely
baffled by this difficulty.  It will be observed that the problem was to secure a joint sufficiently
free to let the piston slide up through it, and at the same time so water-tight as to withstand
the internal force of the pump.  These two conditions seemed so conflicting that Bramah was
almost at his wit's end, and for a time despaired of being able to bring the machine to a state
of practical efficiency.  None but those who have occupied themselves in the laborious and
often profitless task of helping the world to new and useful machines can have any idea of
the tantalizing anxiety which arises from the apparently petty stumbling-blocks which for awhile
impede the realization of a great idea in mechanical invention.  Such was the case with the
water-tight arrangement in the hydraulic press.  In his early experiments, Bramah tried the
expedient of the ordinary stuffing-box for the purpose of securing the required water tightness'
That is, a coil of hemp on leather washers was placed in a recess, so as to fit tightly round
the moving ram or piston, and it was further held in its place by means of a compressing collar
forced hard down by strong screws.  The defect of this arrangement was, that, even supposing
the packing could be made sufficiently tight to resist the passage of the water urged by the
tremendous pressure from beneath, such was the grip which the compressed material took of the
ram of the press, that it could not be got to return down after the water pressure had been
removed.

In this dilemma, Bramah's ever-ready workman, Henry Maudslay, came to his rescue.  The happy
idea occurred to him of employing the pressure of the water itself to give the requisite water-tightness
to the collar.  It was a flash of common-sense genius--beautiful through its very simplicity.
The result was Maudslay's self-tightening collar, the action of which a few words of description
will render easily intelligible.  A collar of sound leather, the convex side upwards and the
concave downwards, was fitted into the recess turned out in the neck of the press-cylinder,
at the place formerly used as a stuffing-box.  Immediately on the high pressure water being
turned on, it forced its way into the leathern concavity and 'flapped out' the bent edges of
the collar; and, in so doing, caused the leather to apply itself to the surface of the rising
ram with a degree of closeness and tightness so as to seal up the joint the closer exactly
in proportion to the pressure of the water in its tendency to escape.  On the other hand, the
moment the  pressure was let off and the ram desired to return, the collar collapsed and the
ram slid gently down, perfectly free and yet perfectly water-tight.  Thus, the former tendency
of the water to escape by the side of the piston was by this most simple and elegant self-adjusting
contrivance made instrumental to the perfectly efficient action of the machine; and from the
moment of its invention the hydraulic press took its place as one of the grandest agents for
exercising power in a concentrated and tranquil form.

Bramah continued his useful labours as an inventor for many years.  His study of the principles
of hydraulics, in the course of his invention of the press, enabled him to introduce many valuable
improvements in pumping-machinery.  By varying the form of the piston and cylinder he was enabled
to obtain a rotary motion,[3] which he advantageously applied to many purposes.  Thus he adopted
it in the well known fire-engine, the use of which has almost become universal.  Another popular
machine of his is the beer-pump, patented in 1797, by which the publican is enabled to raise
from the casks in the cellar beneath, the various liquors sold by him over the counter.  He
also took out several patents for the improvement of the steam-engine, in which, however, Watt
left little room for other inventors; and hence Bramah seems to have entertained a grudge against
Watt, which broke out fiercely in the evidence given by him in the case of Boulton and Watt
versus Hornblower and Maberly, tried in December 1796.  On that occasion his temper seems to
have got the better of his judgment, and he was cut short by the judge in the attempt which
he then made to submit the contents of the pamphlet subsequently published by him in the form
of a letter to the judge before whom the case was tried.[4]  In that pamphlet he argued that
Watt's specification had no definite meaning; that it was inconsistent and absurd, and could
not possibly be understood; that the proposal to work steam-engines on the principle of condensation
was entirely fallacious; that Watt's method of packing the piston was "monstrous stupidity;"
that the engines of Newcomen (since entirely superseded) were infinitely superior, in all respects,
to those of Watt;--conclusions which, we need scarcely say, have been refuted by the experience
of nearly a century.

On the expiry of Boulton and Watt's patent, Bramah introduced several valuable improvements
in the details of the condensing engine, which had by that time become an established power,--the
most important of which was his "four-way cock," which he so arranged as to revolve continuously
instead of alternately, thus insuring greater precision with considerably less wear of parts.
In the same patent by which he secured this invention in 1801, he also proposed sundry improvements
in the boilers, as well as modifications in various parts of the engine, with the object of
effecting greater simplicity and directness of action.

In his patent of 1802, we find Bramah making another great stride in mechanical invention,
in his tools "for producing straight, smooth, and parallel surfaces on wood and other materials
requiring truth, in a manner much more expeditious and perfect than can be performed by the
use of axes, saws, planes, and other cutting instruments used by hand in the ordinary way."
The specification describes the object of the invention to be the saving of manual labour,
the reduction in the cost of production, and the superior character of the work executed. 
The tools were fixed on frames driven by machinery, some moving in a rotary direction round
an upright shaft, some with the shaft horizontal like an ordinary wood-turning lathe, while
in others the tools were fixed on frames sliding in stationary grooves.  A wood-planing machine[5]
was constructed on the principle of this invention at Woolwich Arsenal, where it still continues
in efficient use.  The axis of the principal shaft was supported on a piston in a vessel of
oil, which considerably diminished the friction, and it was so contrived as to be accurately
regulated by means of a small forcing-pump.  Although the machinery described in the patent
was first applied to working on wood, it was equally applicable to working on metals; and in
his own shops at Pimlico Bramah employed a machine with revolving cutters to plane metallic
surfaces for his patent locks and other articles.  He also introduced a method of turning spherical
surfaces, either convex or concave, by a tool moveable on an axis perpendicular to that of
the lathe; and of cutting out concentric shells by fixing in a similar manner a curved tool
of nearly the same form as that employed by common turners for making bowls.  "In fact," says
Mr. Mallet, "Bramah not only anticipated, but carried out upon a tolerably large scale in his
own works--for the construction of the patent hydraulic press, the water-closet, and his locks--a
surprisingly large proportion of our modern tools." [6]  His remarkable predilection in favour
of the use of hydraulic arrangements is displayed in his specification of the surface-planing
machinery, which includes a method of running pivots entirely on a fluid, and raising and depressing
them at pleasure by means of a small forcing-pump and stop-cock,--though we are not aware that
any practical use has ever been made of this part of the invention.

Bramah's inventive genius displayed itself alike in small things as in great--in a tap wherewith
to draw a glass of beer, and in a hydraulic machine capable of tearing up a tree by the roots.
His powers of contrivance seemed inexhaustible, and were exercised on the most various subjects.
When any difficulty occurred which mechanical ingenuity was calculated to remove, recourse
was usually had to Bramah, and he was rarely found at a loss for a contrivance to overcome
it. Thus, when applied to by the Bank of England in 1806, to construct a machine for more accurately
and expeditiously printing the numbers and date lines on Bank notes, he at once proceeded to
invent the requisite model, which he completed in the course of a month.  He subsequently brought
it to great perfection the figures in numerical succession being changed by the action of the
machine itself,--and it still continues in regular use.  Its employment in the Bank of England
alone saved the labour of a hundred clerks; but its chief value consisted in its greater accuracy,
the perfect legibility of the figures printed by it, and the greatly improved check which it
afforded.

We next find him occupying himself with inventions connected with the manufacture of pens and
paper.  His little pen-making machine for readily making quill pens long continued in use,
until driven out by the invention of the steel pen; but his patent for making paper by machinery,
though ingenious, like everything he did, does not seem to have been adopted, the inventions
of Fourdrinier and Donkin in this direction having shortly superseded all others.  Among his
other minor inventions may be mentioned his improved method of constructing and sledging carriage-wheels,
and his improved method of laying water-pipes.  In his specification of the last-mentioned
invention, he included the application of water-power to the driving of machinery of every
description, and for hoisting and lowering goods in docks and warehouses,--since carried out
in practice, though in a different manner, by Sir William Armstrong.[7]  In this, as in many
other matters, Bramah shot ahead of the mechanical necessities of his time; and hence many
of his patents (of which he held at one time more than twenty) proved altogether profitless.
His last patent, taken out in 1814, was for the application of Roman cement to timber for the
purpose of preventing dry rot.

Besides his various mechanical pursuits, Bramah also followed to a certain extent the profession
of a civil engineer, though his more urgent engagements rendered it necessary for him to refuse
many advantageous offers of employment in this line.  He was, however, led to carry out the
new water-works at Norwich, between the years 1790 and 1793, in consequence of his having been
called upon to give evidence in a dispute between the corporation of that city and the lessees,
in the course of which he propounded plans which, it was alleged, could not be carried out.
To prove that they could be carried out, and that his evidence was correct, he undertook the
new works, and executed them with complete success; besides demonstrating in a spirited publication
elicited by the controversy, the insufficiency and incongruity of the plans which had been
submitted by the rival engineer.

For some time prior to his death Bramah had been employed in the erection of several large
machines in his works at Pimlico for sawing stone and timber, to which he applied his hydraulic
power with great success.  New methods of building bridges and canal-locks, with a variety
of other matters, were in an embryo state in his mind, but he did not live to complete them.
He was occupied in superintending the action of his hydrostatic press at Holt Forest, in Hants--where
upwards of 300 trees of the largest dimensions were in a very short time torn up by the roots,--when
he caught a severe cold, which settled upon his lungs, and his life was suddenly brought to
a close on the 9th of December, 1814, in his 66th year.

His friend, Dr. Cullen Brown,[8] has said of him, that Bramah was a man of excellent moral
character, temperate in his habits, of a pious turn of mind,[9] and so cheerful in temperament,
that he was the life of every company into which he entered.  To much facility of expression
he added the most perfect independence of opinion; he was a benevolent and affectionate man;
neat and methodical in his habits, and knew well how to temper liberality with economy.  Greatly
to his honour, he often kept his workmen employed, solely for their sake, when stagnation of
trade prevented him disposing of the products of their labour.  As a manufacturer he was distinguished
for his promptitude and probity, and he was celebrated for the exquisite finish which he gave
to all his productions.  In this excellence of workmanship, which he was the first to introduce,
he continued while he lived to be unrivalled.

Bramah was deservedly honoured and admired as the first mechanical genius of his time, and
as the founder of the art of tool-making in its highest branches.  From his shops at Pimlico
came Henry Maudslay, Joseph Clement, and many more first-class mechanics, who carried the mechanical
arts to still higher perfection, and gave an impulse to mechanical engineering, the effects
of which are still felt in every branch of industry.

The parish to which Bramah belonged was naturally proud of the distinction he had achieved
in the world, and commemorated his life and career by a marble tablet erected by subscription
to his memory, in the parish church of Silkstone.  In the churchyard are found the tombstones
of Joseph's father, brother, and other members of the family; and we are informed that their
descendants still occupy the farm at Stainborough on which the great mechanician was born.

[1] The lock invented by Bramah was patented in 1784.  Mr. Bramah himself fully set forth the
specific merits of the invention in his Dissertation on the Construction of Locks.  In a second
patent, taken out by him in 1798, he amended his first with the object of preventing the counterfeiting
of keys, and suspending the office of the lock until the key was again in the possession of
the owner.  This he effected by enabling the owner so to alter the sliders as to render the
lock inaccessible to such key if applied by any other person but himself, or until the sliders
had been rearranged so as to admit of its proper action.  We may mention in passing that the
security of Bramah's locks depends on the doctrine of combinations, or multiplication of numbers
into each other, which is known to increase in the most rapid proportion.  Thus, a lock of
five slides admits of 3,000 variations, while one of eight will have no less than 1,935,360
changes; in other words, that number of attempts at making a key, or at picking it, may be
made before it can be opened.

[2] The weight raised by a single press at the Britannia Bridge was 1144 tons.

[3] Dr. Thomas Young, in his article on Bramah in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, describes the
"rotative principle" as consisting in making the part which acts immediately on the water in
the form of a slider, "sweeping round a cylindrical cavity, and kept in its place by means
of an eccentric groove; a contrivance which was probably Bramah's own invention, but which
had been before described, in a form nearly similar, by Ramelli, Canalleri, Amontons, Prince
Rupert, and Dr. Hooke.  By Joseph Bramah, Engineer.  London, 1797.

[5] Sir Samuel Bentham and Marc Isambard Brunel subsequently distinguished themselves by the
invention of wood-working machinery, full accounts of which will be found in the Memoirs of
the former by Lady Bentham, and in the Life of the latter by Mr. Beamish.

[6] "Record of the International Exhibition, 1862."  Practical Mechanic's Journal, 293.

[7] In this, as in other methods of employing power, the moderns had been anticipated by the
ancients; and though hydraulic machinery is a comparatively recent invention in England, it
had long been in use abroad.  Thus we find in Dr. Bright's Travels in Lower Hungary a full
description of the powerful hydraulic machinery invented by M. Holl, Chief Engineer of the
Imperial Mines, which had been in use since the year 1749, in pumping water from a depth of
1800 feet, from the silver and gold mines of Schemnitz and Kremnitz.  A head of water was collected
by forming a reservoir along the mountain side, from which it was conducted through water-tight
cast-iron pipes erected perpendicularly in the mine-shaft.  About forty-five fathoms down,
the water descending through the pipe was forced by the weight of the column above it into
the bottom of a perpendicular cylinder, in which it raised a water-tight piston.  When forced
up to a given point a self-acting stop-cock shut off the pressure of the descending column,
while a self-acting valve enabled the water contained in the cylinder to be discharged, on
which the piston again descended, and the process was repeated like the successive strokes
of a steam-engine.  Pump-rods were attached to this hydraulic apparatus, which were carried
to the bottom of the shaft, and each worked a pump at different levels, raising the water stage
by stage to the level of the main adit.  The pumps of these three several stages each raised
1790 cubic feet of water from a depth of 600 feet in the hour.  The regular working of the
machinery was aided by the employment of a balance-beam connected by a chain with the head
of the large piston and pump-rods; and the whole of these powerful machines by means of three
of which as much as 789,840 gallons of water were pumped out of the mines every 24 hours--were
set in operation and regulated merely by the turning of a stopcock.  It will be observed that
the arrangement thus briefly described was equally applicable to the working of machinery of
all kinds, cranes, &c., as well as pumps; and it will be noted that, notwithstanding the ingenuity
of Bramah, Armstrong, and other eminent English mechanics, the Austrian engineer Holl was thus
decidedly beforehand with them in the practical application of the principles of hydrostatics.

[8] Dr. Brown published a brief memoir of his friend in the New Monthly Magazine for April,
1815, which has been the foundation of all the notices of Bramah's life that have heretofore
appeared.

[9] Notwithstanding his well-known religious character, Bramah seems to have fallen under the
grievous displeasure of William Huntington, S.S. (Sinner Saved), described by Macaulay in his
youth as "a worthless ugly lad of the name of Hunter," and in his manhood as "that remarkable
impostor" (Essays, 1 vol. ed. 529).  It seems that Huntington sought the professional services
of Bramah when re-edifying his chapel in 1793; and at the conclusion of the work, the engineer
generously sent the preacher a cheque for 8L. towards defraying the necessary expenses. Whether
the sum was less than Huntington expected, or from whatever cause, the S.S.  contemptuously
flung back the gift, as proceeding from an Arian whose religion was "unsavoury," at the same
time hurling at the giver a number of texts conveying epithets of an offensive character. 
Bramah replied to the farrago of nonsense, which he characterised as "unmannerly, absurd, and
illiterate that it must have been composed when the writer was intoxicated, mad, or under the
influence of Lucifer," and he threatened that unless Huntington apologised for his gratuitous
insults, he (Bramah) would assuredly expose him.  The mechanician nevertheless proceeded gravely
to explain and defend his "profession of faith," which was altogether unnecessary. On this
Huntington returned to the charge, and directed against the mechanic a fresh volley of Scripture
texts and phraseology, not without humour, if profanity be allowable in controversy, as where
he says, "Poor man!  he makes a good patent lock, but cuts a sad figure with the keys of the
Kingdom of Heaven!"  "What Mr. Bramah is," says S.S., "In respect to his character or conduct
in life, as a man, a tradesman, a neighbour, a gentleman, a husband, friend, master, or subject,
I know not.  In all these characters he may shine as a comet for aught I know; but he appears
to me to be as far from any resemblance to a poor penitent or broken-hearted sinner as Jannes,
Jambres, or Alexander the coppersmith!"  Bramah rejoined by threatening to publish his assailant's
letters, but Huntington anticipated him in A Feeble Dispute with a Wise and Learned Man, 8vo.
London, 1793, in which, whether justly or not, Huntington makes Bramah appear to murder the
king's English in the most barbarous manner.

CHAPTER XII.

HENRY MAUDSLAY.

"The successful construction of all machinery depends on the perfection of the tools employed;
and whoever is a master in the arts of tool-making possesses the key to the construction of
all machines..... The contrivance and construction of tools must therefore ever stand at the
head of the industrial arts."--C. BABBAGE, Exposition of 1851.

Henry Maudslay was born at Woolwich towards the end of last century, in a house standing in
the court at the back of the Salutation Inn, the entrance to which is nearly opposite the Arsenal
gates.  His father was a native of Lancashire, descended from an old family of the same name,
the head of which resided at Mawdsley Hall near Ormskirk at the beginning of the seventeenth
century.  The family were afterwards scattered, and several of its members became workmen.
William Maudslay, the father of Henry, belonged to the neighbourhood of Bolton, where he was
brought up to the trade of a joiner.  His principal employment, while working at his trade
in Lancashire, consisted in making the wood framing of cotton machinery, in the construction
of which cast-iron had not yet been introduced.  Having got into some trouble in his neighbourhood,
through some alleged LIAISON, William enlisted in the Royal Artillery, and the corps to which
he belonged was shortly after sent out to the West Indies.  He was several times engaged in
battle, and in his last action he was hit by a musket-bullet in the throat.  The soldier's
stock which he wore had a piece cut out of it by the ball, the direction of which was diverted,
and though severely wounded, his life was saved.  He brought home the stock and preserved it
as a relic, afterwards leaving it to his son.  Long after, the son would point to the stock,
hung up against his wall, and say "But for that bit of leather there would have been no Henry
Maudslay." The wounded artilleryman was invalided and sent home to Woolwich, the headquarters
of his corps, where he was shortly after discharged. Being a handy workman, he sought and obtained
employment at the Arsenal.  He was afterwards appointed a storekeeper in the Dockyard. It was
during the former stage of William Maudslay's employment at Woolwich, that the subject of this
memoir was born in the house in the court above mentioned, on the 22nd of August, 1771.

The boy was early set to work.  When twelve years old he was employed as a "powder-monkey,"
in making and filling cartridges.  After two years, he was passed on to the carpenter's shop
where his father worked, and there he became acquainted with tools and the art of working in
wood and iron.  From the first, the latter seems to have had by far the greatest charms for
him.  The blacksmiths' shop was close to the carpenters', and Harry seized every opportunity
that offered of plying the hammer, the file, and the chisel, in preference to the saw and the
plane.  Many a cuff did the foreman of carpenters give him for absenting himself from his proper
shop and stealing off to the smithy. His propensity was indeed so strong that, at the end of
a year, it was thought better, as he was a handy, clever boy, to yield to his earnest desire
to be placed in the smithy, and he was removed thither accordingly in his fifteenth year.

His heart being now in his work, he made rapid progress, and soon became an expert smith and
metal worker.  He displayed his skill especially in forging light ironwork; and a favourite
job of his was the making of "Trivets" out of the solid, which only the "dab hands" of the
shop could do, but which he threw off with great rapidity in first rate style.  These "Trivets"
were made out of Spanish iron bolts--rare stuff, which, though exceedingly tough, forged like
wax under the hammer.  Even at the close of his life, when he had acquired eminent distinction
as an inventor, and was a large employer of skilled labour, he looked back with pride to the
forging of his early days in Woolwich Arsenal.  He used to describe with much gusto, how the
old experienced hands, with whom he was a great favourite, would crowd about him when forging
his "Trivets," some of which may to this day be in use among Woolwich housewives for supporting
the toast-plate before the bright fire against tea time.  This was, however, entirely contraband
work, done "on the sly," and strictly prohibited by the superintending officer, who used kindly
to signal his approach by blowing his nose in a peculiar manner, so that all forbidden jobs
might be put out of the way by the time he entered the shop.

We have referred to Maudslay's early dexterity in trivet-making--a circumstance trifling enough
in itself--for the purpose of illustrating the progress which he had made in a branch of his
art of the greatest importance in tool and machine making.  Nothing pleased him more in his
after life than to be set to work upon an unusual piece of forging, and to overcome, as none
could do so cleverly as he, the difficulties which it presented.  The pride of art was as strong
in him as it must have been in the mediaeval smiths, who turned out those beautiful pieces
of workmanship still regarded as the pride of our cathedrals and old mansions.  In Maudslay's
case, his dexterity as a smith was eventually directed to machinery, rather than ornamental
work; though, had the latter been his line of labour, we do not doubt that he would have reached
the highest distinction.

The manual skill which our young blacksmith had acquired was such as to give him considerable
reputation in his craft, and he was spoken of even in the London shops as one of the most dexterous
hands in the trade.  It was this circumstance that shortly after led to his removal from the
smithy in Woolwich Arsenal to a sphere more suitable for the development of his mechanical ability.

We have already stated in the preceding memoir, that Joseph Bramah took out the first patent
for his lock in 1784, and a second for its improvement several years later; but notwithstanding
the acknowledged superiority of the new lock over all others, Bramah experienced the greatest
difficulty in getting it manufactured with sufficient precision, and at such a price as to
render it an article of extensive commerce.  This arose from the generally inferior character
of the workmanship of that day, as well as the clumsiness and uncertainty of the tools then
in use.  Bramah found that even the best manual dexterity was not to be trusted, and yet it
seemed to be his only resource; for machine-tools of a superior kind had not yet been invented.
In this dilemma he determined to consult an ingenious old German artisan, then working with
William Moodie, a general blacksmith in Whitechapel.  This German was reckoned one of the most
ingenious workmen in London at the time.  Bramah had several long interviews with him, with
the object of endeavouring to solve the difficult problem of how to secure precise workmanship
in lock-making.  But they could not solve it; they saw that without better tools the difficulty
was insuperable; and then Bramah began to fear that his lock would remain a mere mechanical
curiosity, and be prevented from coming into general use.

He was indeed sorely puzzled what next to do, when one of the hammermen in Moodie's shop ventured
to suggest that there was a young man in the Woolwich Arsenal smithy, named Maudslay, who was
so ingenious in such matters that "nothing bet him," and he recommended that Mr. Bramah should
have a talk with him upon the subject of his difficulty. Maudslay was at once sent for to Bramah's
workshop, and appeared before the lock-maker, a tall, strong, comely young fellow, then only
eighteen years old.  Bramah was almost ashamed to lay his case before such a mere youth; but
necessity constrained him to try all methods of accomplishing his object, and Maudslay's suggestions
in reply to his statement of the case were so modest, so sensible, and as the result proved,
so practical, that the master was constrained to admit that the lad before him had an old head
though set on young shoulders.  Bramah decided to adopt the youth's suggestions, made him a
present on the spot, and offered to give him a job if he was willing to come and work in a
town shop.  Maudslay gladly accepted the offer, and in due time appeared before Bramah to enter
upon his duties.

As Maudslay had served no regular apprenticeship, and was of a very youthful appearance, the
foreman of the shop had considerable doubts as to his ability to take rank alongside his experienced
hands.  But Maudslay soon set his master's and the foreman's mind at rest. Pointing to a worn-out
vice-bench, he said to Bramah, "Perhaps if I can make that as good as new by six o'clock to-night,
it will satisfy your foreman that I am entitled to rank as a tradesman and take my place among
your men, even though I have not served a seven years' apprenticeship."  There was so much
self-reliant ability in the proposal, which was moreover so reasonable, that it was at once
acceded to.  Off went Maudslay's coat, up went his shirt sleeves, and to work he set with a
will upon the old bench.  The vice-jaws were re-steeled "in no time," filed up, re-cut, all
the parts cleaned and made trim, and set into form again.  By six o'clock, the old vice was
screwed up to its place, its jaws were hardened and "let down" to proper temper, and the old
bench was made to look so smart and neat that it threw all the neighbouring benches into the
shade!  Bramah and his foreman came round to see it, while the men of the shop looked admiringly
on.  It was examined and pronounced "a first-rate job." This diploma piece of work secured
Maudslay's footing, and next Monday morning he came on as one of the regular hands.

He soon took rank in the shop as a first-class workman.  Loving his art, he aimed at excellence
in it, and succeeded.  For it must be understood that the handicraftsman whose heart is in
his calling, feels as much honest pride in turning out a piece of thoroughly good workmanship,
as the sculptor or the painter does in executing a statue or a picture.  In course of time,
the most difficult and delicate jobs came to be entrusted to Maudslay; and nothing gave him
greater pleasure than to be set to work upon an entirely new piece of machinery.  And thus
he rose, naturally and steadily, from hand to head work.  For his manual dexterity was the
least of his gifts.  He possessed an intuitive power of mechanical analysis and synthesis.
He had a quick eye to perceive the arrangements requisite to effect given purposes; and whenever
a difficulty arose, his inventive mind set to work to overcome it.

His fellow-workmen were not slow to recognise his many admirable qualities, of hand, mind,
and heart; and he became not only the favourite, but the hero of the shop.  Perhaps he owed
something to his fine personal appearance.  Hence on gala-days, when the men turned out in
procession, "Harry" was usually selected to march at their head and carry the flag.  His conduct
as a son, also, was as admirable as his qualities as a workman.  His father dying shortly after
Maudslay entered Bramah's concern, he was accustomed to walk down to Woolwich every Saturday
night, and hand over to his mother, for whom he had the tenderest regard, a considerable share
of his week's wages, and this he continued to do as long as she lived.

Notwithstanding his youth, he was raised from one post to another, until he was appointed,
by unanimous consent, the head foreman of the works; and was recognised by all who had occasion
to do business there as "Bramah's right-hand man."  He not only won the heart of his master,
but--what proved of far greater importance to him--he also won the heart of his master's pretty
housemaid, Sarah Tindel by name, whom he married, and she went hand-in-hand with him through
life, an admirable "help meet," in every way worthy of the noble character of the great mechanic.
Maudslay was found especially useful by his master in devising the tools for making his patent
locks; and many were the beautiful contrivances which he invented for the purpose of ensuring
their more accurate and speedy manufacture, with a minimum degree of labour, and without the
need of any large amount of manual dexterity on the part of the workman.  The lock was so delicate
a machine, that the identity of the several parts of which it was composed was found to be
an absolute necessity.  Mere handicraft, however skilled, could not secure the requisite precision
of workmanship; nor could the parts be turned out in sufficient quantity to meet any large
demand.  It was therefore requisite to devise machine-tools which should not blunder, nor turn
out imperfect work;--machines, in short, which should be in a great measure independent of
the want of dexterity of individual workmen, but which should unerringly labour in their prescribed
track, and do the work set them, even in the minutest details, after the methods designed by
their inventor.  In this department Maudslay was eminently successful, and to his laborious
ingenuity, as first displayed in Bramah's workshops, and afterwards in his own establishment,
we unquestionably owe much of the power and accuracy of our present self-acting machines.

Bramah himself was not backward in admitting that to Henry Maudslay's practical skill in contriving
the machines for manufacturing his locks on a large scale, the success of his invention was
in a great degree attributable.  In further proof of his manual dexterity, it may be mentioned
that he constructed with his own hands the identical padlock which so severely tested the powers
of Mr. Hobbs in 1851.  And when it is considered that the lock had been made for more than
half a century, and did not embody any of the modern improvements, it will perhaps be regarded
not only as creditable to the principles on which it was constructed, but to the workmanship
of its maker, that it should so long have withstood the various mechanical dexterity to which
it was exposed.

Besides the invention of improved machine-tools for the manufacture of locks, Maudslay was
of further service to Bramah in applying the expedient to his famous Hydraulic Press, without
which it would probably have remained an impracticable though a highly ingenious machine. 
As in other instances of great inventions, the practical success of the whole is often found
to depend upon the action of some apparently trifling detail.  This was especially the case
with the hydraulic press; to which Maudslay added the essential feature of the self-tightening
collar, above described in the memoir of Bramah.  Mr. James Nasmyth is our authority for ascribing
this invention to Maudslay, who was certainly quite competent to have made it; and it is a
matter of fact that Bramah's specification of the press says nothing of the hollow collar,[1]
on which its efficient action mainly depends. Mr. Nasmyth says--"Maudslay himself told me,
or led me to believe, that it was he who invented the self-tightening collar for the hydraulic
press, without which it would never have been a serviceable machine. As the self-tightening
collar is to the hydraulic press, so is the steamblast to the locomotive.  It is the one thing
needful that has made it effective in practice.  If Maudslay was the inventor of the collar,
that one contrivance ought to immortalize him.  He used to tell me of it with great gusto,
and I have no reason to doubt the correctness of his statement."  Whoever really struck out
the idea of the collar, displayed the instinct of the true inventor, who invariably seeks to
accomplish his object by the adoption of the simplest possible means.

During the time that Maudslay held the important office of manager of Bramah's works, his highest
wages were not more than thirty shillings a-week.  He himself thought that he was worth more
to his master--as indeed he was,--and he felt somewhat mortified that he should have to make
an application for an advance; but the increasing expenses of his family compelled him in a
measure to do so.  His application was refused in such a manner as greatly to hurt his sensitive
feelings; and the result was that he threw up his situation, and determined to begin working
on his own account.

His first start in business was in the year 1797, in a small workshop and smithy situated in
Wells Street, Oxford Street.  It was in an awful state of dirt and dilapidation when he became
its tenant.  He entered the place on a Friday, but by the Saturday evening, with the help of
his excellent wife, he had the shop thoroughly cleaned, whitewashed, and put in readiness for
beginning work on the next Monday morning.  He had then the pleasure of hearing the roar of
his own forge-fire, and the cheering ring of the hammer on his own anvil; and great was the
pride he felt in standing for the first time within his own smithy and executing orders for
customers on his own account.  His first customer was an artist, who gave him an order to execute
the iron work of a large easel, embodying some new arrangements; and the work was punctually
done to his employer's satisfaction.  Other orders followed, and he soon became fully employed.
His fame as a first-rate workman was almost as great as that of his former master; and many
who had been accustomed to do business with him at Pimlico followed him to Wells Street.  Long
years after, the thought of these early days of self-dependence and hard work used to set him
in a glow, and he would dilate to his intimate friends up on his early struggles and his first
successes, which were much more highly prized by him than those of his maturer years.

With a true love of his craft, Maudslay continued to apply himself, as he had done whilst working
as Bramah's foreman, to the best methods of ensuring accuracy and finish of work, so as in
a measure to be independent of the carelessness or want of dexterity of the workman. With this
object he aimed at the contrivance of improved machine-tools, which should be as much self-acting
and self-regulating as possible; and it was while pursuing this study that he wrought out the
important mechanical invention with which his name is usually identified--that of the Slide
Rest.  It continued to be his special delight, when engaged in the execution of any piece of
work in which he took a personal interest, to introduce a system of identity of parts, and
to adapt for the purpose some one or other of the mechanical contrivances with which his fertile
brain was always teeming.  Thus it was from his desire to leave nothing to the chance of mere
individual dexterity of hand that he introduced the slide rest in the lathe, and rendered it
one of the most important of machine-tools.  The first device of this kind was contrived by
him for Bramah, in whose shops it continued in practical use long after he had begun business
for himself.  "I have seen the slide rest," says Mr. James Nasmyth, "the first that Henry Maudslay
made, in use at Messrs. Bramah's workshops, and in it were all those arrangements which are
to be found in the most modern slide rest of our own day,[2] all of which are the legitimate
offspring of Maudslay's original rest.  If this tool be yet extant, it ought to be preserved
with the greatest care, for it was the beginning of those mechanical triumphs which give to
the days in which we live so much of their distinguishing character."

A very few words of explanation will serve to illustrate the importance of Maudslay's invention.
Every person is familiar with the uses of the common turning-lathe.  It is a favourite machine
with amateur mechanics, and its employment is indispensable for the execution of all kinds
of rounded work in wood and metal.  Perhaps there is no contrivance by which the skill of the
handicraftsman has been more effectually aided than by this machine.  Its origin is lost in
the shades of antiquity.  Its most ancient form was probably the potter's wheel, from which
it advanced, by successive improvements, to its present highly improved form.  It was found
that, by whatever means a substance capable of being cut could be made to revolve with a circular
motion round a fixed right line as a centre, a cutting tool applied to its surface would remove
the inequalities so that any part of such surface should be equidistant from that centre. 
Such is the fundamental idea of the ordinary turning-lathe.  The ingenuity and experience of
mechanics working such an instrument enabled them to add many improvements to it; until the
skilful artisan at length produced not merely circular turning of the most beautiful and accurate
description, but exquisite figure-work, and complicated geometrical designs, depending upon
the cycloidal and eccentric movements which were from time to time added to the machine.

The artisans of the Middle Ages were very skilful in the use of the lathe, and turned out much
beautiful screen and stall work, still to be seen in our cathedrals, as well as twisted and
swash-work for the balusters of staircases and other ornamental purposes.  English mechanics
seem early to have distinguished themselves as improvers of the lathe; and in Moxon's 'Treatise
on Turning,' published in 1680, we find Mr. Thomas Oldfield, at the sign of the Flower-de-Luce,
near the Savoy in the Strand, named as an excellent maker of oval-engines and swash-engines,
showing that such machines were then in some demand. The French writer Plumier[3] also mentions
an ingenious modification of the lathe by means of which any kind of reticulated form could
be given to the work; and, from it's being employed to ornament the handles of knives, it was
called by him the "Machine a manche de Couteau d'Angleterre."  But the French artisans were
at that time much better skilled than the English in the use of tools, and it is most probable
that we owe to the Flemish and French Protestant workmen who flocked into England in such large
numbers during the religious persecutions of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the improvement,
if not the introduction, of the art of turning, as well as many other arts hereafter to be
referred to.  It is certain that at the period to which we refer numerous treatises were published
in France on the art of turning, some of them of a most elaborate character.  Such were the
works of De la Hire,[4] who described how every kind of polygon might be made by the lathe;
De la Condamine,[5] who showed how a lathe could turn all sorts of irregular figures by means
of tracers; and of Grand Jean, Morin,[6] Plumier, Bergeron, and many other writers.

The work of Plumier is especially elaborate, entering into the construction of the lathe in
its various parts, the making of the tools and cutters, and the different motions to be given
to the machine by means of wheels, eccentrics, and other expedients, amongst which may be mentioned
one very much resembling the slide rest and planing-machine combined.[7]  From this work it
appears that turning had long been a favourite pursuit in France with amateurs of all ranks,
who spared no expense in the contrivance and perfection of elaborate machinery for the production
of complex figures.[8]  There was at that time a great passion for automata in France, which
gave rise to many highly ingenious devices, such as Camus's miniature carriage (made for Louis
XIV. when a child), Degennes' mechanical peacock, Vancanson's duck, and Maillardet's conjuror.
It had the effect of introducing among the higher order of artists habits of nice and accurate
workmanship in executing delicate pieces of machinery; and the same combination of mechanical
powers which made the steel spider crawl, the duck quack, or waved the tiny rod of the magician,
contributed in future years to purposes of higher import,--the wheels and pinions, which in
these automata almost eluded the human senses by their minuteness, reappearing in modern times
in the stupendous mechanism of our self-acting lathes, spinning-mules, and steam-engines.

"In our own country," says Professor Willis, "the literature of this subject is so defective
that it is very difficult to discover what progress we were making during the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries." [9]  We believe the fact to be, that the progress made in England down
to the end of last century had been very small indeed, and that the lathe had experienced little
or no improvement until Maudslay took it in hand.  Nothing seems to have been known of the
slide rest until he re-invented it and applied it to the production of machinery of a far more
elaborate character than had ever before been contemplated as possible.  Professor Willis says
that Bramah's, in other words Maudslay's, slide rest of 1794 is so different from that described
in the French 'Encyclopedie in 1772, that the two could not have had a common origin.  We are
therefore led to the conclusion that Maudslay's invention was entirely independent of all that
had gone before, and that he contrived it for the special purpose of overcoming the difficulties
which he himself experienced in turning out duplicate parts in large numbers.  At all events,
he was so early and zealous a promoter of its use, that we think he may, in the eyes of all
practical mechanics, stand as the parent of its introduction to the workshops of England.

It is unquestionable that at the time when Maudslay began the improvement of machine-tools,
the methods of working in wood and metals were exceedingly imperfect.  Mr. William Fairbairn
has stated that when he first became acquainted with mechanical engineering, about sixty years
ago, there were no self-acting tools; everything was executed by hand.  There were neither
planing, slotting, nor shaping machines; and the whole stock of an engineering or machine establishment
might be summed up in a few ill-constructed lathes, and a few drills and boring machines of
rude construction.[10]  Our mechanics were equally backward in contrivances for working in
wood.  Thus, when Sir Samuel Bentham made a tour through the manufacturing districts of England
in 1791, he was surprised to find how little had been done to substitute the invariable accuracy
of machinery for the uncertain dexterity of the human hand.  Steam-power was as yet only employed
in driving spinning-machines, rolling metals, pumping water, and such like purposes.  In the
working of wood no machinery had been introduced beyond the common turning-lathe and some saws,
and a few boring tools used in making blocks for the navy.  Even saws worked by inanimate force
for slitting timber, though in extensive use in foreign countries, were nowhere to be found
in Great Britain.[11]  As everything depended on the dexterity of hand and correctness of eye
of the workmen, the work turned out was of very unequal merit, besides being exceedingly costly.
Even in the construction of comparatively simple machines, the expense was so great as to present
a formidable obstacle to their introduction and extensive use; and but for the invention of
machine-making tools, the use of the steam-engine in the various forms in which it is now applied
for the production of power could never have become general.

In turning a piece of work on the old-fashioned lathe, the workman applied and guided his tool
by means of muscular strength.  The work was made to revolve, and the turner, holding the cutting
tool firmly upon the long, straight, guiding edge of the rest, along which he carried it, and
pressing its point firmly against the article to be turned, was thus enabled to reduce its
surface to the required size and shape.  Some dexterous turners were able, with practice and
carefulness, to execute very clever pieces of work by this simple means.  But when the article
to be turned was of considerable size, and especially when it was of metal, the expenditure
of muscular strength was so great that the workman soon became exhausted.  The slightest variation
in the pressure of the tool led to an irregularity of surface; and with the utmost care on
the workman's part, he could not avoid occasionally cutting a little too deep, in consequence
of which he must necessarily go over the surface again, to reduce the whole to the level of
that accidentally cut too deep; and thus possibly the job would be altogether spoiled by the
diameter of the article under operation being made too small for its intended purpose.

The introduction of the slide rest furnished a complete remedy for this source of imperfection.
The principle of the invention consists in constructing and fitting the rest so that, instead
of being screwed down to one place, and the tool in the hands of the workman travelling over
it, the rest shall itself hold the cutting tool firmly fixed in it, and slide along the surface
of the bench in a direction exactly parallel with the axis of the work.  Before its invention
various methods had been tried with the object of enabling the work to be turned true independent
of the dexterity of the workman.  Thus, a square steel cutter used to be firmly fixed in a
bed, along which it was wedged from point to point of the work, and tolerable accuracy was
in this way secured.  But the slide rest was much more easily managed, and the result was much
more satisfactory.  All that the workman had to do, after the tool was firmly fitted into the
rest, was merely to turn a screw-handle, and thus advance the cutter along the face of the
work as required, with an expenditure of strength so slight as scarcely to be appreciable.
And even this labour has now been got rid of; for, by an arrangement of the gearing, the slide
itself has been made self-acting, and advances with the revolution of the work in the lathe,
which thus supplies the place of the workman's hand.  The accuracy of the turning done by this
beautiful yet simple arrangement is as mechanically perfect as work can be.  The pair of steel
fingers which hold the cutting tool firmly in their grasp never tire, and it moves along the
metal to be cut with an accuracy and precision which the human hand, however skilled, could
never equal.

The effects of the introduction of the slide rest were very shortly felt in all departments
of mechanism.  Though it had to encounter some of the ridicule with which new methods of working
are usually received, and for a time was spoken of in derision as "Maudslay's Go-cart,"--its
practical advantages were so decided that it gradually made its way, and became an established
tool in all the best mechanical workshops. It was found alike capable of executing the most
delicate and the most ponderous pieces of machinery; and as slide-lathes could be manufactured
to any extent, machinery, steam-engines, and all kinds of metal work could now be turned out
in a quantity and at a price that, but for its use, could never have been practicable.  In
course of time various modifications of the machine were introduced--such as the planing machine,
the wheel-cutting machine, and other beautiful tools on the slide-rest principle,--the result
of which has been that extraordinary development of mechanical production and power which is
so characteristic a feature of the age we live in.

"It is not, indeed, saying at all too much to state," says Mr. Nasmyth,[12] a most competent
judge in such a matter, "that its influence in improving and extending the use of machinery
has been as great as that produced by the improvement of the steam-engine in respect to perfecting
manufactures and extending commerce, inasmuch as without the aid of the vast accession to our
power of producing perfect mechanism which it at once supplied, we could never have worked
out into practical and profitable forms the conceptions of those master minds who, during the
last half century, have so successfully pioneered the way for mankind.  The steam-engine itself,
which supplies us with such unbounded power, owes its present perfection to this most admirable
means of giving to metallic objects the most precise and perfect geometrical forms.  How could
we, for instance, have good steam-engines if we had not the means of boring out a true cylinder,
or turning a true piston-rod, or planing a valve face? It is this alone which has furnished
us with the means of carrying into practice the accumulated result's of scientific investigation
on mechanical subjects.  It would be blamable indeed," continues Mr. Nasmyth, "after having
endeavoured to set forth the vast advantages which have been conferred on the mechanical world,
and therefore on mankind generally, by the invention and introduction of the Slide Rest, were
I to suppress the name of that admirable individual to whom we are indebted for this powerful
agent towards the attainment of mechanical perfection.  I allude to Henry Maudslay, whose useful
life was enthusiastically devoted to the grand object of improving our means of producing perfect
workmanship and machinery:  to him we are certainly indebted for the slide rest, and, consequently,
to say the least, we are indirectly so for the vast benefits which have resulted from the introduction
of so powerful an agent in perfecting our machinery and mechanism generally. The indefatigable
care which he took in inculcating and diffusing among his workmen, and mechanical men generally,
sound ideas of practical knowledge and refined views of construction, have rendered and ever
will continue to render his name identified with all that is noble in the ambition of a lover
of mechanical perfection."

One of the first uses to which Mr. Maudslay applied the improved slide rest, which he perfected
shortly after beginning business in Margaret Street, Cavendish Square, was in executing the
requisite tools and machinery required by Mr. (afterwards Sir Marc Isambard) Brunel for manufacturing
ships' blocks.  The career of Brunel was of a more romantic character than falls to the ordinary
lot of mechanical engineers.  His father was a small farmer and postmaster, at the village
of Hacqueville, in Normandy, where Marc Isambard was born in 1769.  He was early intended for
a priest, and educated accordingly. But he was much fonder of the carpenter's shop than of
the school; and coaxing, entreaty, and punishment alike failed in making a hopeful scholar
of him.  He drew faces and plans until his father was almost in despair.  Sent to school at
Rouen, his chief pleasure was in watching the ships along the quays; and one day his curiosity
was excited by the sight of some large iron castings just landed.  What were they? How had
they been made? Where did they come from? His eager inquiries were soon answered.  They were
parts of an engine intended for the great Paris water-works; the engine was to pump water by
the power of steam; and the castings had been made in England, and had just been landed from
an English ship.  "England!" exclaimed the boy, "ah! when I am a man I will go see the country
where such grand machines are made!" On one occasion, seeing a new tool in a cutler's window,
he coveted it so much that he pawned his hat to possess it.  This was not the right road to
the priesthood; and his father soon saw that it was of no use urging him further:  but the
boy's instinct proved truer than the father's judgment.

It was eventually determined that he should qualify himself to enter the royal navy, and at
seventeen he was nominated to serve in a corvette as "volontaire d'honneur."  His ship was
paid off in 1792, and he was at Paris during the trial of the King.  With the incautiousness
of youth he openly avowed his royalist opinions in the cafe which he frequented.  On the very
day that Louis was condemned to death, Brunel had an angry altercation with some ultra-republicans,
after which he called to his dog, "Viens, citoyen!"  Scowling looks were turned upon him, and
he deemed it expedient to take the first opportunity of escaping from the house, which he did
by a back-door, and made the best of his way to Hacqueville.  From thence he went to Rouen,
and succeeded in finding a passage on board an American ship, in which he sailed for New York,
having first pledged his affections to an English girl, Sophia Kingdom, whom he had accidentally
met at the house of Mr. Carpentier, the American consul at Rouen.

Arrived in America, he succeeded in finding employment as assistant surveyor of a tract of
land along the Black River, near Lake Ontario. In the intervals of his labours he made occasional
visits to New York, and it was there that the first idea of his block-machinery occurred to
him.  He carried his idea back with him into the woods, where it often mingled with his thoughts
of Sophia Kingdom, by this time safe in England after passing through the horrors of a French
prison.  "My first thought of the block-machinery," he once said, "was at a dinner party at
Major-General Hamilton's, in New York; my second under an American tree, when, one day that
I was carving letters on its bark, the turn of one of them reminded me of it, and I thought,
'Ah! my block! so it must be.' And what do you think were the letters I was cutting? Of course
none other than S.  K."  Brunel subsequently obtained some employment as an architect in New
York, and promulgated various plans for improving the navigation of the principal rivers. Among
the designs of his which were carried out, was that of the Park Theatre at New York, and a
cannon foundry, in which he introduced improvements in casting and boring big guns.  But being
badly paid for his work, and a powerful attraction drawing him constantly towards England,
he determined to take final leave of America, which he did in 1799, and landed at Falmouth
in the following March.  There he again met Miss Kingdom, who had remained faithful to him
during his six long years of exile, and the pair were shortly after united for life.

Brunel was a prolific inventor.  During his residence in America, he had planned many contrivances
in his mind, which he now proceeded to work out.  The first was a duplicate writing and drawing
machine, which he patented.  The next was a machine for twisting cotton thread and forming
it into balls; but omitting to protect it by a patent, he derived no benefit from the invention,
though it shortly came into very general use.  He then invented a machine for trimmings and
borders for muslins, lawns, and cambrics,--of the nature of a sewing machine.  His famous block-machinery
formed the subject of his next patent.

It may be explained that the making of the blocks employed in the rigging of ships for raising
and lowering the sails, masts, and yards, was then a highly important branch of manufacture.
Some idea may be formed of the number used in the Royal Navy alone, from the fact that a 74-gun
ship required to be provided with no fewer than 1400 blocks of various sizes.  The sheaved
blocks used for the running rigging consisted of the shell, the sheaves, which revolved within
the shell, and the pins which fastened them together.  The fabrication of these articles, though
apparently simple, was in reality attended with much difficulty.  Every part had to be fashioned
with great accuracy and precision to ensure the easy working of the block when put together,
as any hitch in the raising or lowering of the sails might, on certain emergencies, occasion
a serious disaster.  Indeed, it became clear that mere hand-work was not to be relied on in
the manufacture of these articles, and efforts were early made to produce them by means of
machinery of the most perfect kind that could be devised.  In 1781, Mr. Taylor, of Southampton,
set up a large establishment on the river Itchen for their manufacture; and on the expiry of
his contract, the Government determined to establish works of their own in Portsmouth Dockyard,
for the purpose at the same time of securing greater economy, and of being independent of individual
makers in the supply of an article of such importance in the equipment of ships.

