In the twelfth century came the struggle of the Hohenstaufen with the Italian cities, and the
disorder and turmoil of the rise of the communes and the division of Italy. One catalogue shows
a Horace, and one manuscript dates from the time. England and France are united by the Norman
Conquest in much the same way as Germany and France had been associated in the kingdom of Charlemagne.
It is the century of Roger Bacon. Especially in Germany, England, and France, it is the age
of the Crusades and the knightly orders. It is an age of the spread of culture among the common
people. In France, it is the age of the monastery of Cluny, and the age of Abelard. Education
and travel became the mode. In general, acquaintance with Horace among cultivated men may now
be taken for granted. The Epistles and Satires find more favor than the Odes. Five hundred
and twenty citations of the former and seventy-seven of the latter have been collected for
the twelfth century.

The thirteenth century marks a decline in the intellectual life. The Crusades exhaust the energies
of the time, and detract from its literary interest. The German rulers and the Italian ecclesiasts
are absorbed in the struggle for supremacy between pope and emperor. Scholasticism overshadows
humanism. The humanistic tradition of Charlemagne has died out, and the intellectual ideal
is represented by Vincent of Beauvais and the Speculum Historiale. There is no mention of Horace
in the catalogues of Italy. The manuscripts of France are careless, the comments and glosses
poor. The decline will continue until arrested by the Renaissance.

It must not be forgotten that among all these scattered and flickering attentions to Horace
there was the constant nucleus of instruction in the school. That he was used for this purpose
first in the Carolingian cloister-schools, and later in the secular schools which grew to independent
existence as a result of the vigorous spread of educational spirit, cannot be doubtful. Gerbert,
dying at the beginning of the eleventh century as Pope Sylvester II, is known to have interpreted
Horace in his school. This is the oldest direct evidence of the scholastic use of Horace, but
other proofs are to be seen in the commentaries of the medieval period, all of which are of
a kind suitable for school use, and in the marginal annotations, often in the native tongue.

The decline of humane studies in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries meant also the decline
of interest in Horace, who had always been above all the poet of the cultivated few. At the
beginning of the thirteenth century in Italy, nowhere but at Bologna and Rome was Latin taught
except as the elementary instruction necessary to the study of civil and canonical law. Gaufried
of Vinesaux, coming from England to Italy, and composing an Ars Dictaminis and a Poietria Nova
containing Horatian reminiscences, is one of two or three significant examples of Latin teachers
who concerned themselves with literature as well as language. Coluccio Salutati, wanting to
buy a copy of Horace in 1370, is apparently unable to find it. The decline of interest in Horace
will be arrested only by the Rebirth of Learning.

The intellectual movement back to the classical authors and the classical civilizations is
well called the Rebirth. The brilliance of the new era as compared with the thousand years
that lead to it from the most high and palmiest days of Rome is such as to dim almost to darkness
the brightest days of medieval culture. The new life into which Horace is now to enter will
be so spirited and full that the old life, though by no means devoid of active influence in
society at large and in the individual soul, will seem indeed like a long death and a waiting
for the resurrection into a new heaven and a new earth.

4. HORACE AND MODERN TIMES

THE REBIRTH OF HORACE

The national character of the Aeneid gave Virgil a greater appeal than Horace in ancient Roman
times. In the Middle Age, his qualities as story-teller and poet of the compassionate heart,
together with his fame as necromancer and prophet, made still more pronounced the favor in
which he was held. The ignorance of the earlier centuries of the period could not appreciate
Horace the logical, the intellectual, the difficult, while the schematized religion and knowledge
of the later were not attracted by Horace the philosophical and individual.

With the Renaissance and its quickening of intellectual life in general, and in particular
the value it set upon personality and individualism, the positions of the poets were reversed.
For four hundred years now it can hardly be denied that Horace rather than Virgil has been
the representative Latin poet of humanism.

This is not to say that Horace is greater than Virgil, or that he is as great. Virgil is still
the poet of stately movement and golden narrative, the poet of the grand style. Owing to the
greater facility with which he may be read, he is also still the poet of the young and of greater
numbers. With the coming of the new era he did not lose in the esteem that is based upon the
appreciation of literary art, but rather gained.

It will be better to say that Horace finally came more fully into his own. This was not because
he changed. He did not change. The times changed. The barriers of intellectual sloth and artificiality
fell away, and men became accessible to him. Virgil lost nothing of his old-time appeal to
the fancy and to the ear, but Horace's virtues also were discovered: his distinction in word
and phrase, his understanding of the human heart. Virgil lost nothing of his charm for youth
and age, but Horace was discovered as the poet of the riper and more thoughtful mind. Virgil
remained the admired, but Horace became the friend. Virgil remained the guide, but Horace became
the companion. "Virgil," says Oliver Wendell Holmes, "has been the object of an adoration amounting
almost to worship, but he will often be found on the shelf, while Horace lies on the student's
table, next his hand."

The nature and extent of Horace's influence upon modern letters and life will be best brought
into relief by a brief historical review. It is not necessary to this purpose, nor would it
be possible, within ordinary limits, to enter into a detailed account. It will be appropriate
to begin with Italy.

i. IN ITALY

Horace did not spring immediately into prominence with the coming of the Renaissance, whether
elsewhere or in Italy. As might be expected, the essentially epic and medieval Dante found
inspiration in Virgil rather than in Horace, though the Ars Poetica was known to him and quoted
more than once as authority on style. "This is what our master Horace teaches," runs one of
the passages, "when at the beginning of Poetry he says, 'Choose a subject, etc.'" The imperfect
idea of Horace formed in Dante's mind is indicated by the one verse in the Divina Commedia
which refers to him:

  L' altro è Orazio satiro che viene,--

  The other coming is Horace the satirist.

With Petrarch, the first great figure to emerge from the obscure vistas of medievalism, the
case was different. The first modern who really understood the classics understood Horace also,
and did him greater justice than fell to his lot again for many generations. The copy of Horace's
works which he acquired on November 28, 1347, remained by him until on the 18th of July in
1374 the venerable poet and scholar was found dead at the age of seventy among his books. Fond
as he was of Virgil, Cicero, and Seneca, he had an intimate and affectionate knowledge of Horace,
to whom there are references in all his works, and from whom he enriched his philosophy of
life. Even his greatest and most original creation, the Canzoniere, is not without marks of
Horace, and their fewness here, as well as their character, are a sign that Petrarch's familiarity
was not of the artificial sort, but based on real assimilation of the poet. His letter to Horace
begins:

    Salve o dei lirici modi sovrano,
    Salve o degl' Itali gloria ed onor,--

  Hail! Sovereign of the lyric measure,
  Hail! Italy's great pride and treasure;

and, after recounting the qualities of the poet, and acknowledging him as guide, teacher, and
lord, concludes:

    Tanto è l' amor che a te m'avvince; tanto
      È degli affetti miei donno il tuo canto--

  So great the love that bindeth me to thee;
  So ruleth in my heart thy minstrelsy.

But Petrarch is a torch-bearer so far in advance of his successors that the illumination almost
dies out again before they arrive. It was not until well into the fifteenth century that the
long and numerous line of imitators, translators, adapters, parodists, commentators, editors,
and publishers began, which has continued to the present day. The modern-Latin poets in all
countries were the first, but their efforts soon gave place to attempts in the vernacular tongues.
The German Eduard Stemplinger, in his Life of the Horatian Lyric Since the Renaissance, published
in 1906, knows 90 English renderings of the entire Odes of Horace, 70 German, 100 French, and
48 Italian. Some are in prose, some even in dialect. The poet of Venusia is made a Burgundian,
a Berliner, and even a Platt-deutsch. All of these are attempts to transfuse Horace into the
veins of modern life, and are significant of their authors' conviction as to the vitalizing
power of the ancient poet. No author from among the classics has been so frequently translated
as Horace.

Petrarch, as we have seen, led the modern world by a century in the appreciation of Horace.
It was in 1470, ninety-six years after the laureate's death, that Italy achieved the first
printed edition of the poet, which was also the first in the world. This was followed in 1474
by a printing of Acro's notes, grown by accretion since their origin in the third century into
a much larger body of commentary. In 1476 was published the first Horace containing both text
and notes, which were those of Acro and Porphyrio, and in 1482 appeared Landinus's notes, the
first printed commentary on Horace by a modern humanist. Landinus was prefaced by a Latin poem
of Politian's, who, with Lorenzo dei Medici, was a sort of arbiter in taste, and who produced
in 1500 a Horace of his own. Mancinelli, who, like many other scholars of the time, gave public
readings and interpretations of Horace and other classics, in 1492 dedicated to the celebrated
enthusiast Pomponius Laetus an edition of the Odes, Epodes, and Secular Hymn, in which he so
successfully integrated the comments of Acro, Porphyrio, Landinus, and himself, that for the
next hundred years it remained the most authoritative Horace. In Italy, between 1470 and 1500,
appeared no fewer than 44 editions of the poet, while in France there were four and in Germany
about ten. Venice alone published, from 1490 to 1500, thirteen editions containing text and
commentary by "The Great Four," as they were called. The famous Aldine editions began to appear
in 1501. Besides Venice, Florence, and Rome, Ferrara came early to be a brilliant center of
Horatian study, Lionel d'Este and the Guarini preparing the way for the more distinguished,
if less scholastic, discipleship of Ariosto and Tasso. Naples and the South displayed little
activity.

Roughly speaking, the later fifteenth century was the age of manuscript recovery, commentary,
and publication; the sixteenth, the century of translation, imitation, and ambitious attempt
to rival the ancients on their own ground; the seventeenth and eighteenth, the centuries of
critical erudition, with many commentaries and versions and much discussion of the theory of
translation; and the nineteenth, the century of scientific revision and reconstruction. In
the last movement, Italy had comparatively small part. Among her translators during these centuries
must be mentioned Ludovico Dolce, whose excellent rendering of the Satires and Epistles was
a product of the early sixteenth; Scipione Ponsa, whose faithful Ars Poetica in ottava rima
appeared in the first half of the seventeenth; the advocate Borgianelli, whose brilliant version
of Horace entire belongs to the second half; and the Venetian Abriani, whose complete Odes
in the original meters, the first achievement of the kind, was a not unsuccessful performance
which has taken its place among Horatian curiosities. Among literary critics are the names
of Gravina, whose Della Ragione Poetica, full of sound scholarship and refreshing good sense,
appeared in 1716 at Naples; Volpi of Padua, author of a treatise on Satire, in which the merits
of Lucilius, Horace, Juvenal, and Persius were effectively discussed; and their followers,
Algarotti the Venetian and Vannetti of Roveredo, in whom Horatian criticism reached its greatest
altitude.

If we look outside the field of scholastic endeavor and academic imitation, and attempt to
discern the effect of Horace in actual literary creation, we are confronted by the difficulty
of determining exactly where imitation and adaptation cease to be artificial, and reach the
degree of individuality and independence which entitles them to the name of originality. If
we are to include here such authors as are manifestly indebted to suggestion or inspiration
from Horace, and yet are quite as manifestly modern and Italian, we may note at least the names
of Petrarch, already mentioned; the famous Cardinal Bembo, whose ideal, to write "thoughtfully
and little," was a reflection of Horace; Ariosto, whose satires are in the Horatian spirit,
and who, complaining to his brother Alessandro of the attitude of his patron, Cardinal Hippolyto
d'Este, recites the story of the fox and the weasel, changing them to donkey and rat; Chiabrera
of Savona, who wrote satire honeycombed with Horatian allusion and permeated by Horatian spirit,
and who, in Leopardi's opinion, had he lived in a different age, would have been a second Horace;
Testi of Ferrara, whom Ariosto's enthusiasm for Horace so kindled that he gravitated from the
modern spirit to the classical; Parini of Milan, whose poem, Alla Musa, is Horatian in spirit
and phrase; Leopardi, who composed a parody on the Ars Poetica; Prati, who transmuted Epode
II into the Song of Hygieia; and Carducci, whose use of Horatian meters, somewhat strained,
is due to the conscious desire of making Italy's past greatness serve the present. The names
of Bernardo Tasso and Torquato Tasso might be added.

It is not impossible, also, that the musical debt of the world to Italy is in a measure owing
to Horace. Whether the music which accompanied the Odes as they emerged from the Middle Age
was only the invention of monks, or the survival of actual Horatian music from antiquity, is
a question hardly to be answered; but the setting of Horace to music in the Renaissance was
not without an influence. In 1507, Tritonius composed four-voice parts for twenty-two different
meters of Horace and other poets. In 1526, Michael engaged in the same effort, and in 1534
Senfl developed the youthful compositions of Tritonius. All this was for school purposes. With
the beginnings of Italian opera, these compositions, in which the music was without measure
and held strictly to the service of poetry, came to an end. It is not unreasonable to suspect
that in these early attempts at the union of ancient verse and music there exist the beginnings
of the musical drama.

ii. IN FRANCE

France, where the great majority of Horatian manuscripts were preserved, was the first to produce
a translation of the Odes. Grandichan in 1541, and Pelletier in 1545, published translations
of the Ars Poetica which had important consequences. The famous Pleiad, whose most brilliant
star, Pierre de Ronsard, was king of poetry for more than a score of years, were enthusiastic
believers in the imitation of the classics as a means for the improvement of letters in France.
Du Bellay, the second in magnitude, published in 1550 his Deffence et illustration de la langue
françoyse, a manifesto of the Pleiad full of quotations from the Ars Poetica refuting a similar
work of Sibilet published in 1548. Ronsard himself is said to have been the first to use the
word "ode" for Horace's lyrics. The meeting of the two, in 1547, is regarded as the beginning
of the French school of Renaissance poetry. Horace thus became at the beginning an influence
of the first magnitude in the actual life of modern French letters. In 1579 appeared Mondot's
complete translation. The versions of Dacier and Sanadon, in prose, in the earlier eighteenth
century, were an innovation provoking spirited opposition in Italy. The line of translators,
imitators, and enthusiasts in France is as numerous as that of other countries. The list of
great authors inspired by Horace includes such names as Montaigne, "The French Horace," Malherbe,
Regnier, Boileau, La Fontaine, Corneille, Racine, Molière, Voltaire, Jean Baptiste Rousseau,
Le Brun, André Chénier, De Musset.

iii. IN GERMANY

In Germany, the Renaissance movement had its pronounced beginning at Heidelberg. In that city
began also the active study of Horace, in the lectures on Horace in 1456. The Epistles were
first printed in 1482 at Leipzig, the Epodes in 1488, and in 1492 appeared the first complete
Horace. Up to 1500, about ten editions had been published, only those of 1492 and 1498 being
Horace entire, and none of them with commentary except that of 1498, which had a few notes
and metrical signs to indicate the structure of the verse. The first German to translate a
poem of Horace was Johann Fischart, 1550-90, who rendered the second Epode in 145 rhymed couplets.
The famous Silesian, Opitz, "father of German poetry," and his followers, were to Germany what
the Pleiad were to France. His work on poetry, 1624, was grounded in Horace, and was long the
canon. Bucholz, in 1639, produced the first translation of an entire book of the Odes in German.
Weckherlin, 1548-1653, translated three Odes, Gottsched of Leipzig, 1700-66, and Breitinge
of Zurich, confess Horace as master of the art of poetry, and their cities become the centers
of many translations. Günther, 1695-1728, the most gifted lyric poet of his race before Klopstock,
made Horace his companion and confidant of leisure hours. Hagedorn, 1708-54, forms his philosophy
from Horace,--"my friend, my teacher, my companion." Of Ramler, for thirty-five years dictator
of the Berlin literary world, who translated and published some of the Odes in 1769 and was
called the German Horace, Lessing said that no sovereign had ever been so beautifully addressed
as was Frederick the Great in his imitation of the Maecenas ode. The epoch-making Klopstock,
1724-1803, quotes, translates, and imitates Horace, and uses Horatian subjects. Heinse reads
him and writes of him enthusiastically, and Platen, 1796-1835, is so full of Homer and Horace
that he can do nothing of his own. Lessing and Herder are devoted Horatians, though Herder
thinks that Lessing and Winckelmann are too unreserved in their enthusiasm for the imitation
of classical letters. Goethe praises Horace for lyric charm and for understanding of art and
life, and studies his meters while composing the Elegies. Nietzsche's letters abound in quotation
and phrase. Even the Church in Germany shows the impress of Horace in some of her greatest
hymns, which are in Alcaics and Sapphics of Horatian origin. To speak of the German editors,
commentators, and critics of the nineteenth century would be almost to review the history of
Horace in modern school and university; such has been the ardor of the German soul and the
industry of the German mind.

iv. IN SPAIN

A glance at the use of Horace in Spain will afford not the least edifying of modern examples.
The inventories of Spanish libraries in the Middle Age rarely contain the name of Horace, or
the names of his lyric brethren, Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius. Virgil, Lucan, Martial,
Seneca, and Pliny are much more frequent. It was not until the fifteenth century that reminiscences
of the style and ideas of Horace began to appear in quantity. Imitation rather than translation
was the vehicle of Spanish enthusiasm. The fountain of Horatianism in Spain was the imitation
of Epode II, Beatus Ille, by the Marquis de Santillana, one of Castile's two first sonneteers,
in the first half of the fifteenth century. Garcilaso also produced many imitations of the
Odes. The Horatian lyric seemed especially congenial to the Spanish spirit and language. Fray
Luís de León, of Salamanca, the first real Spanish poet, and the most inspired of all the Spanish
lovers of Horace, was an example of the poet translating the poet where both were great men.
He not only brought back to life once more "that marvelous sobriety, that rapidity of idea
and conciseness of phrase, that terseness and brilliance, that sovereign calm and serenity
in the spirit of the artist," which characterized the ancient poet, but added to the Horatian
lyre the new string of Christian mysticism, and thus wedded the ancient and the modern. "Luís
de León is our great Horatian poet," says Menéndez y Pelayo. Lope de Vega wrote an Ode to Liberty,
and was influenced by the Epistles. The Flores de Poetas ilustres de España, arranged by Pedro
Espinosa and published in 1605 at Valladolid, included translations of eighteen odes. Hardly
a lyric poet of the eighteenth century failed to turn some part of Horace into Spanish. Salamanca
perfected the ode, Seville the epistle, Aragon the satire. Mendoza in his nine Epistles shows
his debt to Horace. In 1592, Luís de Zapata published at Lisbon a not very successful verse
translation of the Ars Poetica. In 1616, Francisco de Cascales of Murcia published Fablas Poeticas,
containing in dialogue the substance of the same composition, which had been translated by
Espinel, 1551-1624, and which was translated again in 1684, twice in 1777, and in 1827. Seville
founded a Horatian Academy. The greatest of the Spanish translators of Horace entire was Javier
de Burgos, whose edition of four volumes, 1819-1844, is called by Menéndez y Pelayo the only
readable complete translation of Horace, "one of the most precious and enviable jewels of our
modern literature," and "perhaps the best of all Horaces in the neo-Latin tongues." The nearest
rival of Burgos was Martinez de la Rosa. The greatest Spanish scholar and critic of Horace
is Menéndez y Pelayo, editor of the Odes, 1882, and author of Horacio en España, 1885.

In the index of Horacio en España are to be found the names of 165 Castilian translators of
the poet, 50 Portuguese, 10 Catalan, 2 Asturian, and 1 Galician. There appear the names of
29 commentators. Of complete translations, there are 6 Castilian and 1 Portuguese; of complete
translations of the Odes, 6 Castilian and 7 Portuguese; of the Satires, 1 Castilian and 2 Portuguese;
of the Epistles, 1 Castilian and 1 Portuguese; of the Ars Poetica, 35 Castilian, 11 Portuguese,
and 1 Catalan. The sixteenth century translators were distinguished in general by facility
and grace, the freshness and abandon of youth, and a considerable degree of freedom, or even
license. Those of the eighteenth show a gain in accuracy and a loss in spirit.

v. IN ENGLAND

The appeal of Horace in England and English-speaking countries has been as fruitful as elsewhere
in scholarship, with the possible exception of Germany. In its effect upon the actual fibre
of literature and life, it has been more fruitful.

A review of Horatian study in England would include the names of Talbot and Baxter, but, above
all, of the incomparably brilliant Richard Bentley, despite his excesses, themselves due to
his very genius, the most famous and most stimulating critic and commentator of Horace the
world has seen. His edition, appearing in 1711, provoked in 1717 the anti-Bentleian rejoinder
of Richard Johnson, and in 1721 the more ambitious but equally unsuccessful attempt to discredit
him by the Scotch Alexander Cunningham. The primacy in the study of Horace which Bentley conferred
upon England had been enjoyed previously by the Low Countries and France, to which it had passed
from Italy in the second half of the sixteenth century. The immediate sign of this transfer
of the center to northern lands was the publication in 1561 at Lyons of the edition containing
the text revision and critical notes of Lambinus and the commentary of the famous Cruquius
of Bruges. The celebrated Scaliger was unfavorably disposed to Horace, who found a defender
in Heinsius, another scholar of the Netherlands. D'Alembert, who became a sort of Ars Poetica
to translators, published his Observations at Amsterdam in 1763.

An account of the English translations of the poet would include many renderings of individual
poems, such as those of Dryden, Sir Stephen E. De Vere, and John Conington, and the version
of Theodore Martin, probably the most successful complete metrical translation of Horace in
any language. It is literally true that "every theory of translation has been exemplified in
some English rendering of Horace."

It is in the field of literature, however, that the manifestations of Horace's hold upon the
English are most numerous and most significant. Even Shakespeare's "small Latin" includes him,
in Titus Andronicus:

Demetrius.

  What's here? A scroll, and written round about!
  Let's see:

      Integer vitae scelerisque purus
      Non eget Mauri jaculis nec arcu.

Chiron.

  O, 'tis a verse in Horace; I know it well:
  I read it in the grammar long ago.

The mere mention of English authors in poetry and prose who were touched and kindled by the
Horatian flame would amount to a review of the whole course of English literature. It would
begin principally with Spenser and Ben Jonson, who in some measure represented in their land
what the Pleiad meant in France, and Opitz and his following in Germany. "Steep yourselves
in the classics," was Jonson's counsel, and his countrymen did thus steep themselves to such
a degree that it is possible for the student to say of Milton's times: "The door to English
literature and history of the seventeenth century is open wide to those who are at ease in
the presence of Latin. Many writings and events of the time may doubtless be understood and
enjoyed by readers ignorant of the classics, but to them the heart and spirit of the period
as a whole will hardly be revealed. Poetry, philosophy, history, biography, controversy, sermons,
correspondence, even conversation,--all have come down to us from the age of Milton either
written in or so touched with Latin that one is compelled to enter seventeenth century England
by way of Rome as Rome must be entered by way of Athens."

Great as was the vogue of Latin in the earlier centuries, it was the first half of the eighteenth,
the most critical period in English letters, that realized to the full the virtues of Horace.
His words in the Ars Poetica "were accepted, even more widely than the laws of Aristotle, as
the standard of critical judgment. Addison and Steele by their choice of mottoes for their
periodicals, Prior by his adoption of a type of lyric that has since his time been designated
as Horatian, and Pope with his imposing series of Imitations, gave such an impulse to the already
widespread interest that it was carried on through the whole of the century." "Horace may be
said to pervade the literature of the eighteenth century in three ways: as a teacher of political
and social morality; as a master of the art of poetry; and as a sort of elegantiae arbiter."
Richardson, Sterne, Smollett, and Fielding, Gay, Samuel Johnson, Chesterfield, and Walpole,
were all familiar with and fond of Horace, and took him unto themselves.

In the nineteenth century, Wordsworth has an intimate familiarity with Virgil, Catullus, and
Horace, but loves Horace best; Coleridge thinks highly of his literary criticism; Byron, who
never was greatly fond of him, frequently quotes him; Shelley reads him with pleasure; Browning's
The Ring and the Book contains many quotations from him; Thackeray makes use of phrases from
the Odes "with an ease and facility which nothing but close intimacy could produce"; Andrew
Lang addresses to him the most charming of his Letters to Dead Authors; and Austin Dobson is
inspired by him in many of his exquisite poems in lighter vein. These names, and those in the
paragraphs preceding, are not all that might be mentioned. The literature of England is honey-combed
with the classic authors in general, and Horace is among the foremost. Without him and without
the classics, a great part of our literary patrimony is of little use.

vi. IN THE SCHOOLS

Of the place of Horace in the schools and universities of all these countries, and of the world
of western civilization in general, it is hardly necessary to speak. The enlightened sentiment
of the five hundred years since the death of Petrarch has been enthusiastic in the conviction
that the Greek and Latin classics are indispensable to instruction of the first quality, and
that among them Horace is of exceeding value as a model of poetic taste and as an influence
in the formation of a philosophy of life. If his place has been less secure in latter days,
it is due less to alteration of that conviction than to extension of the educational system
to the utilitarian arts and sciences, and to the passing of educational control from the few
to the general average.

III. HORACE THE DYNAMIC

THE CULTIVATED FEW

We have followed in such manner and at such length as is possible for our purpose the fortunes
of Horace through the ages from his death and the death of the Empire in whose service his
pen was employed to our own times. We have seen that he never was really forgotten, and that
there never was a time of long duration when he ceased to be of real importance to some portion
of mankind.

The recital of historical fact is at best a narration of circumstance to which there clings
little of the warmth of life. An historical event itself is but the cumulated and often frigid
result of intimate original forces that may have meant long travail of body and soul before
the act of realization became possible. The record of the event in chronicle or its commemoration
in monument is only the sign that at some time there occurred a significant moment rendered
inevitable by previous stirrings of life whose intensity, if not whose very identity, are forgotten
or no longer realized.

