It was all unique, delightful, the dream of an artistic soul realised. Three years before David
Steel had worked in an attic at a bare deal table, and his mother had £3 per week to pay for
everything. Usually there was balm in this recollection.

But not to-night, Heaven help him, not to-night! Little grinning demons were dancing on the
oak cornices, there were mocking lights gleaming from Cellini tankards that Steel had given
far too much money for. It had not seemed to matter just at the time. If all this artistic
beauty had emptied Steel's purse there was a golden stream coming. What mattered it that the
local tradesmen were getting a little restless? The great expense of the novelist's life was
past. In two years he would be rich. And the pathos of the thing was not lessened by the fact
that it was true. In two years' time Steel would be well off. He was terribly short of ready
money, but he had just finished a serial story for which he was to be paid £500 within two
months of the delivery of the copy; two novels of his were respectively in their fourth and
fifth editions. But these novels of his he had more or less given away, and he ground his teeth
as he thought of it. Still, everything spelt prosperity. If he lived, David Steel was bound
to become a rich man.

And yet he was ruined. Within twenty-four hours everything would pass out of his hands. To
all practical purposes it had done so already. And all for the want of £1,000! Steel had earned
twice that amount during the past twelve months, and the fruits of his labour were as balm
to his soul about him. Within the next twelve months he could pay the debt three times over.
He would cheerfully have taken the bill and doubled the amount for six months' delay.

And all this because he had become surety for an absconding brother. Steel had put his pride
in his pocket and interviewed his creditor, a little, polite, mild-eyed financier, who meant
to have his money to the uttermost farthing. At first he had been suave and sympathetic, until
he had discovered that Steel had debts elsewhere, and then--

Well, he had signed judgment, and to-morrow he could levy execution. Within a few hours the
bottom would fall out of the universe so far as Steel was concerned. Within a few hours every
butcher and baker and candle-stick-maker would come abusively for his bill. Steel, who could
have faced a regiment, recoiled fearfully from that. Within a week his oak and silver would
have to be sold and the passion flower would wither on the walls.

Steel had not told anybody yet; the strong man had grappled with his trouble alone. Had he
been a man of business he might have found some way out of the difficulty. Even his mother
didn't know. She was asleep upstairs, perhaps dreaming of her son's greatness. What would the
dear old mater say when she knew? Well, she had been a good mother to him, and it had been
a labour of love to furnish the house for her as for himself. Perhaps there would be a few
tears in those gentle eyes, but no more. Thank God, no reproaches there.

David lighted a cigarette and paced restlessly round the dining-room. Never had he appreciated
its quiet beauty more than he did now. There were flowers, blood-red flowers, on the table
under the graceful electric stand that Steel had designed himself. He snapped off the light
as if the sight pained him, and strode into his study. For a time he stood moodily gazing at
his flowers and ferns. How every leaf there was pregnant with association. There was the Moorish
clock droning the midnight hour. When Steel had brought that clock--

"Ting, ting, ting. Pring, pring, ping, pring. Ting, ting, ting, ting."

But Steel heard nothing. Everything seemed as silent as the grave. It was only by a kind of
inner consciousness that he knew the hour to be midnight. Midnight meant the coming of the
last day. After sunrise some greasy lounger pregnant of cheap tobacco would come in and assume
that he represented the sheriff, bills would be hung like banners on the outward walls, and then.--

"Pring, pring, pring. Pring, pring, pring."

Bells, somewhere. Like the bells in the valley where the old vicarage used to stand. Steel
vaguely wondered who now lived in the house where he was born. He was staring in the most absent
way at his telephone, utterly unconscious of the shrill impatience of the little voice. He
saw the quick pulsation of the striker and he came back to earth again.

Jefferies of the Weekly Messenger, of course. Jefferies was fond of a late chat on the telephone.
Steel wondered grimly, if Jefferies would lend him £1,000. He flung himself down in a deep
lounge-chair and placed the receiver to his ear. By the deep, hoarse clang of the wires, a
long-distance message, assuredly.

"From London, evidently. Halloa, London! Are you there?"

London responded that it was. A clear, soft voice spoke at length.

"Is that you, Mr. Steel? Are you quite alone? Under the circumstances you are not busy to-night?"

Steel started. He had never heard the voice before. It was clear and soft and commanding, and
yet there was just a suspicion of mocking irony in it.

"I'm not very busy to-night," Steel replied. "Who is speaking to me?"

"That for the present we need not go into," said the mocking voice. "As certain old-fashioned
contemporaries of yours would say, 'We meet as strangers!' Stranger yet, you are quite alone!"

"I am quite alone. Indeed, I am the only one up in the house."

"Good. I have told the exchange people not to ring off till I have finished with you. One advantage
of telephoning at this hour is that one is tolerably free from interruption. So your mother
is asleep? Have you told her what is likely to happen to you before many hours have elapsed?"

Steel made no reply for a moment. He was restless and ill at ease to-night, and it seemed just
possible that his imagination was playing him strange tricks. But, no. The Moorish clock in
its frame of celebrities droned the quarter after twelve; the scent of the Dijon roses floated
in from the conservatory.

"I have told nobody as yet," Steel said, hoarsely. "Who in the name of Heaven are you?"

"That in good time. But I did not think you were a coward."

"No man has ever told me so--face to face."

"Good again. I recognise the fighting ring in your voice. If you lack certain phases of moral
courage, you are a man of pluck and resource. Now, somebody who is very dear to me is at present
in Brighton, not very far from your own house. She is in dire need of assistance. You also
are in dire need of assistance. We can be of mutual advantage to one another."

"What do you mean by that?" Steel whispered.

"Let me put the matter on a business footing. I want you to help my friend, and in return I
will help you. Bear in mind that I am asking you to do nothing wrong. If you will promise me
to go to a certain address in Brighton to night and see my friend, I promise that before you
sleep the sum of £1,000 in Bank of England notes shall be in your possession."

No reply came from Steel. He could not have spoken at that moment for the fee-simple of Golconda.
He could only hang gasping to the telephone. Many a strange and weird plot came and went in
that versatile brain, but never one more wild than this. Apparently no reply was expected,
for the speaker resumed:--

"I am asking you to do no wrong. You may naturally desire to know why my friend does not come
to you. That must remain my secret, our secret. We are trusting you because we know you to
be a gentleman, but we have enemies who are ever on the watch. All you have to do is to go
to a certain place and give a certain woman information. You are thinking that this is a strange
mystery. Never was anything stranger dreamt of in your philosophy. Are you agreeable?"

The mocking tone died out of the small, clear voice until it was almost pleading.

"You have taken me at a disadvantage," Steel said. "And you know--"

"Everything. I am trying to save you from ruin. Fortune has played you into my hands. I am
perfectly aware that if you were not on the verge of social extinction you would refuse my
request. It is in your hands to decide. You know that Beckstein, your creditor, is absolutely
merciless. He will get his money back and more besides. This is his idea of business. To-morrow
you will be an outcast--for the time, at any rate. Your local creditors will be insolent to
you; people will pity you or blame you, as their disposition lies. On the other hand, you have
but to say the word and you are saved. You can go and see the Brighton representatives of Beckstein's
lawyers, and pay them in paper of the Bank of England."

"If I was assured of your bona-fides," Steel murmured.

A queer little laugh, a laugh of triumph, came over the wires.

"I have anticipated that question. Have you Greenwich time about you?"

Steel responded that he had. It was five-and-twenty minutes past twelve. He had quite ceased
to wonder at any questions put to him now. It was all so like one of his brilliant little extravanganzas.

"You can hang up your receiver for five minutes," the voice said. "Precisely at half-past twelve
you go and look on your front doorstep. Then come back and tell me what you have found. You
need not fear that I shall go away."

Steel hung up the receiver, feeling that he needed a little rest. His cigarette was actually
scorching his left thumb and forefinger, but he was heedless of the fact. He flicked up the
dining-room lights again and rapidly made himself a sparklet soda, which he added to a small
whisky. He looked almost lovingly at the gleaming Cellini tankard, at the pools of light on
the fair damask. Was it possible that he was not going to lose all this, after all?

The Moorish clock in the study droned the half-hour.

David gulped down his whisky and crept shakily to the front door with a feeling on him that
he was doing something stealthily. The bolts and chain rattled under his trembling fingers.
Outside, the whole world seemed to be sleeping. Under the wide canopy of stars some black object
picked out with shining points lay on the white marble breadth of the top step. A gun-metal
cigar-case set in tiny diamonds.

The novelist fastened the front door and staggered to the study. A pretty, artistic thing such
as David had fully intended to purchase for himself. He had seen one exactly like it in a jeweller's
window in North Street. He had pointed it out to his mother. Why, it was the very one! No doubt
whatever about it! David had had the case in his hands and had reluctantly declined the purchase.

He pressed the spring, and the case lay open before him. Inside were papers, soft, crackling
papers; the case was crammed with them. They were white and clean, and twenty-five of them
in all. Twenty-five Bank of England notes for £10 each--£250!

David fought the dreamy feeling off and took down the telephone receiver.

"Are you there?" he whispered, as if fearful of listeners. "I--I have found your parcel."

"Containing the notes. So far so good. Yes, you are right, it is the same cigar-case you admired
so much in Lockhart's the other day. Well, we have given you an instance of our bona-fides.
But £250 is of no use to you at present. Beckstein's people would not accept it on account--they
can make far more money by 'selling you up,' as the poetic phrase goes. It is in your hands
to procure the other £750 before you sleep. You can take it as a gift, or, if you are too proud
for that, you may regard it as a loan. In which case you can bestow the money on such charities
as commend themselves to you. Now, are you going to place yourself entirely in my hands?"

Steel hesitated no longer. Under the circumstances few men would, as he had a definite assurance
that there was nothing dishonourable to be done. A little courage, a little danger, perhaps,
and he could hold up his head before the world; he could return to his desk to-morrow with
the passion flowers over his head and the scent groves sweet to his nostrils. And the mater
could dream happily, for there would be no sadness or sorrow in the morning.

"I will do exactly what you tell me," he said.

"Spoken like a man," the voice cried. "Nobody will know you have left the house--you can be
home in an hour. You will not be missed. Come, time is getting short, and I have my risks as
well as others. Go at once to Old Steine. Stand on the path close under the shadow of the statue
of George IV. and wait there. Somebody will say 'Come,' and you will follow. Goodnight."

Steel would have said more, but the tinkle of his own bell told him that the stranger had rung
off. He laid his cigar-case on the writing-table, slipped his cigarette-case into his pocket,
satisfied himself that he had his latch-key, and put on a dark overcoat. Overhead the dear
old mater was sleeping peacefully. He closed the front door carefully behind him and strode
resolutely into the darkness.

CHAPTER II

THE CRIMSON BLIND

David walked swiftly along, his mind in a perfect whirl. Now that once he had started he was
eager to see the adventure through. It was strange, but stranger things had happened. More
than one correspondent with queer personal experiences had taught him that. Nor was Steel in
the least afraid. He was horribly frightened of disgrace or humiliation, but physical courage
he had in a high degree. And was he not going to save his home and his good name?

David had not the least doubt on the latter score. Of course he would do nothing wrong, neither
would he keep the money. This he preferred to regard as a loan--a loan to be paid off before
long. At any rate, money or no money, he would have been sorry to have abandoned the adventure now.

His spirits rose as he walked along, a great weight had fallen from his shoulders. He smiled
as he thought of his mother peacefully sleeping at home. What would his mother think if she
knew? But, then, nobody was to know. That had been expressly settled in the bond.

Save for an occasional policeman the streets were deserted. It was a little cold and raw for
the time of year, and a fog like a pink blanket was creeping in from the sea. Down in the Steine
the big arc-lights gleamed here and there like nebulous blue globes; it was hardly possible
to see across the road. In the half-shadow behind Steel the statue of the First Gentleman in
Europe glowed gigantic, ghost-like in the mist.

It was marvellously still there, so still that David could hear the tinkle of the pebbles on
the beach. He stood back by the gate of the gardens watching the play of the leaf silhouettes
on the pavement, quaint patterns of fantastic designs thrown up in high relief by the arc-light
above. From the dark foggy throat of St. James's Street came the tinkle of a cycle bell. On
so still a night the noise seemed bizarre and out of place. Then the cycle loomed in sight;
the rider, muffled and humped over the front wheel, might have been a man or a woman. As the
cyclist flashed by something white and gleaming dropped into the road, and the single word
"Come" seemed to cut like a knife through the fog. That was all; the rider had looked neither
to the right nor to the left, but the word was distinctly uttered. At the same instant an arm
dropped and a long finger pointed to the gleaming white square in the road. It was like an
instantaneous photograph--a flash, and the figure had vanished in the fog.

"This grows interesting," Steel muttered. "Evidently my shadowy friend has dropped a book of
rules in the road for me. The plot thickens."

It was only a plain white card that lay in the road. A few lines were typed on the back of
it. The words might have been curt, but they were to the point:--

"Go along the sea front and turn into Brunswick Square. Walk along the right side of the square
until you reach No. 219. You will read the number over the fanlight. Open the door and it will
yield to you; there is no occasion to knock. The first door inside the hall leads to the dining-room.
Walk into there and wait. Drop this card down the gutter just opposite you."

David read the directions once or twice carefully. He made a mental note of 219. After that
he dropped the card down the drain-trap nearest at hand. A little way ahead of him he heard
the cycle bell trilling as if in approval of his action. But David had made up his mind to
observe every rule of the game. Besides, he might be rigidly watched.

The spirit of adventure was growing upon Steel now. He was no longer holding the solid result
before his eyes. He was ready to see the thing through for its own sake. And as he hurried
up North Street, along Western Road, and finally down Preston Street, he could hear the purring
tinkle of the cycle bell before him. But not once did he catch sight of the shadowy rider.

All the same his heart was beating a little faster as he turned into Brunswick Square. All
the houses were in pitchy darkness, as they naturally would be at one o'clock in the morning,
so it was only with great difficulty that Steel could make out a number here and there. As
he walked slowly and hesitatingly along the cycle bell drummed impatiently ahead of him.

"A hint to me," David muttered. "Stupid that I should have forgotten the directions to read
the number over the fanlight. Also it is logical to suppose that I am going to find lights
at No. 219. All right, my friend; no need to swear at me with that bell of yours."

He quickened his pace again and finally stopped before one of the big houses where lights were
gleaming from the hall and dining-room windows. They were electric lights by their great power,
and, save for the hall and dining-room, the rest of the house lay in utter darkness. The cycle
bell let off an approving staccato from behind the blankety fog as Steel pulled up.

There was nothing abnormal about the house, nothing that struck the adventurer's eye beyond
the extraordinary vividness of the crimson blind. The two side-windows of the big bay were
evidently shuttered, but the large centre gleamed like a flood of scarlet overlaid with a silken
sheen. Far across the pavement the ruby track struck into the heart of the fog.

"Vivid note," Steel murmured. "I shall remember that impression."

He was destined never to forget it, but it was only one note in the gamut of adventure now.
With a firm step he walked up the marble flight and turned the handle. It felt dirty and rusty
to the touch. Evidently the servants were neglectful, or they were employed by people who had
small regard for outward appearances.

The door opened noiselessly, and Steel closed it behind him. A Moorish lantern cast a brilliant
flood of light upon a crimson carpet, a chair, and an empty oak umbrella-stand. Beyond this
there was no atom of furniture in the hall. It was impossible to see beyond the dining-room
door, for a heavy red velvet curtain was drawn across. David's first impression was the amazing
stillness of the place. It gave him a queer feeling that a murder had been committed there,
and that everybody had fled, leaving the corpse behind. As David coughed away the lump in his
throat the cough sounded strangely hollow.

