INEDITED LETTER FROM THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, AUTHOR OF THE "CHARACTERISTICS," TO LE CLERC,
RESPECTING LOCKE.

    [We are indebted to our valued correspondent JANUS DOUSA, for a
    transcript of the following important letter--the original of which is
    preserved in the Remonstrant Library of Amsterdam--and for which our
    correspondent acknowledges his obligations to the great kindness of
    Prof. des Amories van der Hoven.]

"St. Giles's, in Dorset, Feb. 8-13. 1705.

"Sir,--Having once writt to you in my own Language, I continue to use the same Privilege. I
am sorry that I am in no better a condition to acquit my self of my Promise to you. My Recovery
has been so slow, that I am scarce yet got up: and I have been unable to hold any Correspondance
with my Friends in Town. Mr. King promisd to send me the Papers I mention'd to you of Mr. Lock's;
who, it seems, had begun some Memoires of his own relating to my G^d Father. These however
imperfect, yet as being Mr. Lock's own I should have been glad to send you with what supplement
I could make myself: But Mr. King's Engagements in the Publick affaires has made him delay
this so long, that according to the account you have given me of the shortness of your Time,
I must wayt no longer: but content my self with giving you what I can out of my own head, without
other Assistance.

"Mr. Lock came into my Grandfathers Family in the summer of the year 1666, recommended by his
Friend[1] Mr. Bennet of y^e town of Shaftesbury. The occasion of it was thus. My Grandfather
had been ill for a great while after a Fall, by w^{ch} his Breast was so bruised that in time
it came to an Imposthumation (?) within, and appeard by a swelling under his stomach. Mr. Lock
was at that time a student in Physick at Oxford: and my Grandfather taking a journey that way
to drink the Waters (having Mr. Bennett in y^e Coach with him), He had this young Physician
presented to him: who tho' he had never practic'd Physick; yet appear'd to my Grandfather to
be such a Genius that he valew'd him above all his other Physicians, the great men in practice
of those times. Accordingly on his advice and allmost solely by his Direction my G^d Father
underwent an Operation w^{ch} sav'd his Life, and was the most wonderfull of the kind that
had been heard of, till that time. His Breast was layd open, the matter discharg'd, and an
Orifice ever afterwards kept open by a silver pipe: an Instrument famouse {98} upon Record,
in the Writings our Popish and Jacobite Authors, who never faild to reproach him with this
Infirmity.

"After this Cure, Mr. Lock grew so much in esteem with my Grand-Father that as great a Man
as he had experienc'd him in Physick; he look'd upon this but as his least part. He encourag'd
him to turn his Thoughts another way. Nor would he suffer him to practice Physick except in
his own Family and as a kindness to some particular Friend. He put him upon the studdy of the
Religiouse and Civil affaires of the Nation with whatsoever related to the Business of a Minister
of State: in w^{ch} he was so successfull, that my G^d Father begun soon to use him as a Friend,
and consult with him on all occasions of that kind. He was not only with him in his Library
and Closet, but in company with the Great Men of those times, the Duke of Buckingham, Lord
Hallifax and others, who being men of Witt and Learning, were as much taken with him. For together
with his seriouse, respectfull and humble Character, he had a mixture of Pleasantry and a becoming
Boldness of Speech. The Liberty he could take with these great Men was peculiar to such a Genius
as his. A pleasant Instance of it runs in my Mind: tho' perhaps the relation of it may not
be so pleasing to another.

"At an appointed Meeting of two or three of these Great-Men at my G^d Father's House, more
for Entertainment and good company than for Business, it happen'd that after a few Compliments
the Cards were called for, and the Court-Fashion prevailing, they were engag'd in Play before
any Conversation was begun. Mr. Lock sate by as a spectator for some time. At least taking
out his Table-Book, he began to write something very busily: till being observd by one of the
Lords, and ask'd what he was meditating; My Lords (sayd he) I am improving my self the best
I can in your Company: for, having impatiently wayted this Honour of being present at such
a meeting of the wisest Men and greatest Witts of the Age, I thought I could not do better
than to write your Conversation: and here I have it, in substance, all that has pass'd for
this hour or two. There was no need of Mr. Lock's writing much of the Dialogue. The great men
felt the ridicule, and took pleasure in improving it. They quitted their Play, and fell into
a Conversation becoming them: and so passed the remainder of the Day.

"When my G^d Father, from being Chancellor of the Exchequer, was made High Chancellor (w^{ch}
was in the year 1672) he advanc'd Mr. Lock to the Place of Secretary for the Clergy: and when
my G^d Father quitted the Court and began to be in Danger from it, Mr. Lock now shard with
him in Dangers, as before in Honours & Advantages. He entrusted him with his secretest negotiations,
and made use of his assistant Pen in matters that nearly concerned the State, and were fitt
to be made publick, to raise that spirit in the Nation which was necessary against the prevailing
Popish Party.

"It was for something of this kind that got air, and out of great Tenderness to Mr. Lock that
my Grandfather in the year 1674 sent him abroad to travell: an Improvement w^{ch} my G^d father
was gladd to add to those he had allready given him. His Health servd as a very just Excuse:
he being consumptive as early in his Life as that was. So that having travelld thro' France
he went[2] to Montpelier and there stayd for some time. He returnd again to my G^d Fathers
in the year 1678, and remaind in his Family till the year 1682: w^{ch} was the year that my
G^d Father retird into Holland and there dyed. Mr. Lock who was to have soon followd him thither,
was not prevented in the voyage, by this Death: but found it safest for him to retire thither,
and there lived (at our good Friend Mr. Furly's of Rotterdam) till the happy Revolution of
King William, w^{ch} restord him to his native Country and to other Publick offices of greater
Note, w^{ch} by fresh Meritts he deserv'd: witness his then Publishd Books of Government, Trade
and Coin: by w^{ch} he had as considerably servd the State, as he had done the Church and Protestant
Interest by his defence of Toleration and support of the Revolution-Principles.

"But of this part of his Life, you need no Information.

"Thus far I have made mention of Mr. Lock as to his station in Publick affaires, under my Grandfather.
Now as to his Service in private affaires, and the Concerns of a Family, w^{ch} was, in every
respect, so happy in him, that he seem as a good Guardian Angel sent to bless it.

"When Mr. Lock first came into the Family, my Father was a youth of about fifteen or sixteen.
Him my Grandfather entrusted wholly to Mr. Lock for what remain'd of his Education. He was
an only Child, and of no firm Health: w^{ch} induc'd my G^d Father, in concern for his Family
to think of marrying him as soon as possible. He was too young and unexperienc'd to chuse a
Wife for himself: and my Grandfather too much in Business to chuse one for him. The affair
was nice, for tho' my Grandfather requir'd not a great Fortune, he insisted on good Blood,
good Person and Constitution, and above all, good Education, and a Character as remote as possible
from that of Court- or Town-bred Lady. All this was thrown upon Mr. Lock, who being allready
so good Judge of Men, my Grand Father doubted not of his equal {99} Judgment in Women. He departed
from him, entrusted and sworn, as Abraham's Head-servant[3] that ruled over all that he had,
and went into a far-Country (the North of England) to seek for his Son a Wife whome he as successfully
found. Of Her, I and six more of us, Brothers & Sisters, were born; in whose Education Mr.
Lock govern'd according to his own Principles (since publishd by him) and with such success
that we all of us came to full years, with strong healthy Constitutions: my own the worst;
tho' never faulty till of late. I was his more peculiar Charge: being as eldest son, taken
by my Grandfather, & bred under his immediate Care: Mr. Lock having the absolute Direction
of my Education, and to whome next my immediate Parents as I must own the greatest Obligation,
so I have ever preserved the highest Gratitude & Duty.

"I could wish that my Time and Health would permit me to be longer in this Account of my Friend
and Foster-Father, Mr. Lock. If I add any thing as you desire, concerning my Grandfather himself,
it must have a second place: this being a subject more selfish and in w^{ch} I may justly suspect
my self of Partiality: of w^{ch} I would willingly be free: and think I truly am so in this
I now send you. But I fear least this (such as it is) should come too late, and therefore hasten
to conclude with repeated Assurances of my being your Oblig'd Friend and humble Servant

"SHAFTESBURY.

"P.S. If after what I have said I dare venture a Word to you as to my Grandfather's Apology
for the one and only thing I repine at in his whole Life (I mean the unhappy Words you mention
delenda est Carthago), It must be this: That the Publick would not insist on this as so ill,
and injuriouse; if they considered the English Constitution and manner of those times in w^{ch}
the Prince more lofty in Prorogative and at greater distance from his People than now of days,
used but a few Words to his Parlement; and committed the rest to his Keepers or Chancellor,
to speak his sence for him (as he expresses it in y^e conclusion of his own speech) upon w^{ch}
my Grandfather, the then Chancellor, and in his Chancellor's Place[4], spoke of King's sence,
as the King's mouth; in y^e same manner as the Speaker of the House of Peers or Commons, speaks
the House's sence, as the House's mouth (for so he is esteemd and calld) whatsoever may be
his own private sence; or tho' he may have deliver'd his own Opinion far contrary.

"Such was my Grandfather's Call: who was far from delivering his Vote or Opinion in this manner,
either as a Councillor or Peer, or in his Place in Parlement: where he carryed on a direct
opposite Interest: he being allready in open Enmity with the Duke of York and his Party that
carryed on that Warr, in so much that he was at that very time suspected of holding a Correspondence
with Holland in favour of the Commonwealth-Party in England. However it be, it is no small
Comfort to me that that wise Commonwealth of Holland, the Parent and Nursing-Mother of Liberty,
thought him worthy of their Protection when he was a sufferer for the common Cause of Religion
and Liberty: and he must ever remain a noble Instance of the Generosity of that State, and
of that potent Head of it, y^e City of Amsterdam; where yourself and other Great Men have met
with a Reception y^t will redound to their Honour.

"My Grandfather's turning short upon the Court (as[5] Sir William Temple expresses it) had
only this plain reason for it; that he discoverd the King to be a Papist, through that disguise
of an Esprit fort, w^{ch} was a character his Vices and over fondness of Witt made him affect
and act very naturally. Whatever Complyances my Grandfather, as a States-man, might make before
this discovery, to gain the King, from his Brother and y^e French Party, he broke off all,
when by the Duke of Buckingham's means, he had gaind this secret. For my Grandfather's Aversion
and irreconcileable Hatred to Popery, was (as Phanaticisme,) confessd by his greatest Enemyes
to be his Master-Passion. Nor was it ever said that the King left him: but He the King, for
nothing was omitted afterwards by that Prince to regain him; nor nothing to destroy him, when
that was found impossible----

"But I must end: least I fail this Post."

The superscription is:

     "A Monsieur
  Monsieur LE CLERC
      sur le Keiser Gracht
  près de l'Eglise Arminienne
          a Amsterdam"

[Footnote 1: "A Gentleman of a Sound Protestant Family allways in great Friendship with ours.
Both Father and Son were members of Parlement for that Town, and were Stewards to my G^d Father."
(In a marginal note.)]

[Footnote 2: "It was there (as I take it) that Mr. Lock came so particularly well acquainted
with My Lord Pembrock, that great Ornament and Pillar of our Nation. He was then Mr. Herbert,
a younger Brother only." --(In a marginal note.)]

[Footnote 3: "Gen. c. 24." (In a marginal note.)]

[Footnote 4: The Speech was an Act of Councill examind beforehand in the Cabinet.

"Mr. Lock saw the first Coppy of it, w^{ch} was very different; and after it was alter'd in
the Cabinet, my Grandfather complain'd to Mr. Lock and a Relation of his whome Mr. Lock introducd
into y^e family.

"The same Person has left me a written account of that affaire; and so great was my Grandfather's
Concern and Trouble, that He who of all Men alas esteemd y^e most ready in speaking was forcd
to desire Mr. Lock to stand at his Elbow with the written Coppy to prompt him in Case of failure
in his Repetition." (In a marginal note.)]

[Footnote 5: "It is my Grandfathers Misfortune to have S^r Will^m Temple, a valewable Author,
very unfavourable to him: there having been a great Quarrel between them on a slight occasion
of my Grandfather's having stopt his Gift of Plate after his Embassy; a Custome w^{ch} my Grandfather
as Chancellor of ye Exchequer thought very prejudicial." (In a marginal note.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

{100}

MR. GOUGH'S TRANSLATION OF THE HISTORY OF THE BIBLE.

In vol. vi., p. 266., of Nichols's Literary Anecdotes, "Memoirs of Mr. Gough," is the following
anecdote of Mr. Gough's precocious talents--

    "At the very early age of eleven he commenced a task that would have
    reflected credit on any period of life; which, by the indulgence of his
    mother, appeared in print under the title of 'The History of the
    Bible, translated from the French by R. G., junior, 1746. London:
    Printed by James Waugh in the year 1747.' Of this curious volume,
    consisting of 160 sheets in folio, not more than twenty-five copies
    were printed, as presents to a few particular friends and when
    completed at the press, it is marked by way of colophon, 'Done at
    twelve years and a half old.'"

Mr. Nichols in his notes says, that the French edition was printed at Amsterdam, in 2 vols.
folio, with plates, 1700. That by the generosity of Mr. Gough's worthy relict, he had a copy
of the work with Mr. Gough's corrections in maturer age; and in a note at p. 642. of this volume
of the Literary Anecdotes Mr. Nichols further states, that

    "By a singular chance, at a sale of the library of Dr. Guise in
    January, 1812, he met with two copies of Mr. Gough's juvenile
    translation of the History of the Bible; and at the end of one of the
    volumes were ten sheets of Mr. Pickering's Dictionary, perhaps the
    only copy of them in existence."

The Rev. Roger Pickering was Mr. Gough's tutor until he was admitted at Bene't College, Cambridge,
July, 1752, being then in the 17th year of his age. This Dictionary was compiled on the plan
of Calmet, but left unfinished.

Mr. J. B. Nichols, son of the late venerable octogenarian, having recently presented me with
a copy of Mr. Gough's scarce volume, I am anxious to learn by whom the original French work
was written, and where a copy may be purchased. It is one of much erudition; sound in doctrine
and principle; pleasing and familiar in its language, and would, I should think, well repay
the publisher of a new edition, after a careful correction of a few deficiencies in composition,
incidental to the early period at which Mr. Gough translated it. There is nothing in the preface,
or in any part of the volume, to indicate the name of the original author. Should Mr. J. B.
Nichols still possess Mr. Gough's more matured and corrected copy, he might perhaps discover
some reference to the author.

J. M. G.

Worcester, Jan. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Lammer Beads (Vol. iii. p. 84.).--If L. M. M. R. had taken the trouble to consult Jamieson's
Etymological Dictionary,--that rich storehouse of curious information, not merely in relation
to the language, but to the manners and customs, and the superstitions of North Britain,--he
would have found interesting notices connected with his inquiry. See the word LAMMER, and the
same in the Supplement. We might accept, without a moment's hesitation, the suggestion of a
learned friend of Dr. Jamieson's, deriving Lammer from the French, l'ambre, were it not that
Kilian gives us Teut. Lamertyn-steen, succinum. In Anglo-Saxon times it was called Eolhsand
(Gloss. Ælfr.), and appears to have been esteemed in Britain from a very early period. Amongst
antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon age, beads of amber are of very frequent occurrence. Douglas
has collected some interesting notes regarding this substance, in his Nenia, p. 9. It were
needless to cite the frequent mention of precularia, or Paternosters, of amber, occurring in
inventories. The Duke of Bedford, Regent of France, purchased a most costly chaplet from a
Parisian jeweller, in 1431, described as "une patenostres à signeaux d'or et d'ambre musquet."
(Leber, Inventaires, p. 235.) The description "de alba awmbre," as in the enumeration of strings
of beads appended to the shrine of S^r William, at York Minster, may have been in distinction
from jet, to which, as well as to amber, certain virtuous or talismanic properties were attributed.
There were, however, several kinds of amber,--succinum rubrum, fulvum, &c. The learned professor
of Copenhagen, Olaus Worm, alludes to the popular notions and superstitious use of amber--

    "Foris in collo gestatum, contra fascinationes et nocturna
    terriculamenta pueros tueri volunt; capitis etiam destillationibus, et
    tonsillarum ac faucium vitiis resistere, oculorum fluxus et ophthalmias
    curare."

By his account it would seem to have been received as a panacea, sovereign for asthma, dropsy,
toothache, and a multitude of diseases.

    "In summâ (he concludes) Balsami instar est, calorem nativum roborans
    et morborum insultibus resistens."--Museum Wormianum, p. 32.

Bartholomaeus Glanvilla, in his work, De Proprietatibus Rerum, has not overlooked the properties
of amber, which he seems to regard as a kind of jet (book xvi., c. xlix.).

    "Gette, hyght Gagates, and is a boystous stone, and never the les it is
    precious."

He describes it as most abundant and of best quality in Britain of two kinds, yellow and black;
it drives away adders,--

    "Is contrary to fendes,--helpeth for fantasies and ayenste vexacions of
    fendis by night.--And so, if so boystus a stone dothe so great wonders,
    none shuld be dispisid for foule colour without, while the vertu that
    is within is unknowe." (Translation by Trevisa.)

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

{101}

ON CATALOGUES OF BOOKS.

