THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, No. 289.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1827. [Price 2d.

Bushy Park.

Among the suburban beauties of the metropolis, and as an attraction for home-tourists, Bushy
is entitled to special notice, independent of its celebrity as the retreat of royalty--it being
the residence of His Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence, an accurate portrait of whom will
be presented, to our readers with the usual Supplementary Number at the close of the present
volume of the MIRROR.

Bushy Park is an appendage to the palace and honour of Hampton Court; and though far from assimilating
to that splendid pile, it is better fitted for rural enjoyment, whilst its contiguity to the
metropolis almost gives it the character of rus in urbe.[1] The residence is a handsome structure,
and its arrangement is altogether well calculated for the indulgence of royal hospitality--a
characteristic of its present distinguished occupant, as well as of that glorious profession,
to the summit of which his royal highness has recently been exalted. The park, too, is well
stocked with deer, and its rangership is confided to the duke. The pleasure grounds are tastefully
disposed, and their beauty improved by the judicious introduction of temples and other artificial
embellishments, among which, a naval temple, containing a piece of the mast of the Victory,
before which Nelson fell, and a bust of the noble admiral, has been consecrated to his memory
by the royal duke, with devotional affection, and the best feelings of a warm heart.

[1] The Duke is a good economist of time; for what with excellent cattle and the glory of Macadamized
roads, his R.H. comes to town in the morning, transacts his official business at the Admiralty,
and frequently returns to Bushy to dinner.

The park is a thoroughfare, and the circumstances by which this public claim was established
are worthy of record, as a specimen of the justice with which the rights of the community are
upheld in this country. The village Hampden, in the present case, was one Timothy Bennet, of
whom there is a fine print, which the neighbours, who are fond of a walk in Bushy Park, must
regard with veneration. It has under it this inscription:--"Timothy Bennet; of Hampton Wick,
in Middlesex, shoemaker, aged 75, 1752. This true Briton, (unwilling to leave the world worse
than he found it,) by a vigorous application of the laws of his country in the cause of liberty,
obtained a free passage through Bushy Park, which had many years been withheld from the public."
Regeneration (or the renewal of souls) is, however, a shoemaker's forte.

The above engraving of Bushy is copied from an elegant coloured view, drawn by Ziegler, and
published by Griffiths, of Wellington-street, Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUGITIVE.

A SCOTCH TALE.

(For the Mirror.)

It was now abute the gloaming when my ain same Janet (heav'n sain her saul) was sitting sae
bieldy in a bit neuk ayant the ingle, while the winsome weans gathering around their minnie
were listing till some auld spae wife's tale o' ghaists and worriecows; when on a sudden some
ane tirled at the door pin.

"Here's your daddie, bairns," said the gudewife ganging till the door; but i' place o' their
daddie, a tall chiel wrappit i' a big cloak, rushed like a fire flaught into the bield, and
drappit doun on the sunkie ewest the ingle droghling and coghling.

"What's your wull, friend?" said Janet, glowering on him a' i' a gliff, "the gudeman's awa."

"Save me, save me," shrieghed the stranger, "the sleuth hounds are at my heels."

"But wha may ye be, maister," cried the dame, "I durstna dee your bidding while Jamie's frae
the hause."

"Oh, dinna speir, dinna speir mistress," exclaimed the chiel a' in a curfuffle, "ainly for
the loe of heav'n, hide me frae the red coats whilk are comin' belive--O God, they are here,"
he cried, as I entered the shealing, and uttering a piercing skirl, he sprung till the wa',
and thrawing aff his cloak, drew his broad claymore, whilk glittered fearsome by the low o'
the ingle.

"Hauld, hauld, 'tis the gudeman his nainsell," shreighed Janet, when the stranger drapping
the point o' the sword, clingit till my hand, and while the scauding tear draps tricklit adoun
his face prigged me to fend him.

"Tak' your certie o' that my braw callant," said I, "ne'er sail it be tauld o' Jamie Mc-Dougall,
that he steeked his door again the puir and hauseless, an the bluidy sleuth hounds be on ye
they'se find it ill aneugh I trow to get an inkling o' ye frae me, I'se sune shaw 'em the cauld
shouther."

Sae saying, I gared him climb a rape by whilk he gat abune the riggin o' the bield, then steeking
to the door thro' whilk he gaed, I jimp had trailed doun the rape, when in rinned twa red coat
chiels, who couping ilka ane i' their gait begun to touzle out the ben, and the de'il gaed
o'er Jock Wabster.

"Eh, sirs! eh, sirs!" cried I, "whatna gaits' that to steer a bodie, wad ye harry a puir chiel
o' a' his warldly gear, shame till ye, shame till ye, shank yoursell's awa."

"Fusht, fusht, fallow," cried ane o' the churls, "nane o' your bourds wi' us, or ye may like
to be the waur aff; where is the faus loon? we saw him gae doun the loaning afore the shealing,
and here he maun needs be."

"Aweel, sirs," I exclaimed, "ye see there isna ony creatur here, our nainsell's out-taken;
seek again an ye winna creed a bodie; may be the bogle is jumpit into the pot on the rundle-tree
ower the ingle, or creepit into the meal ark or aiblins it scoupit thro' the hole as ye cam
in at the door. Ye may threep and threep and wampish your arms abute, as muckle as ye wuss,
ye silly gowks, I canna tell ye mair an I wad."

"May be the Highland tyke is right, cummer, (said one o' the red coats) and the fallow is jumpit
thro' the bole, but harkye maister gudeman, an ye hae ony mair o' your barns-breaking wi us,
ye'se get a sark fu' o' sair banes, that's a'."

"Hear till him, hear till him, Janet," said I, as the twa southron chiels gaed thro' the hole,
trailing their bagganets alang wi' 'em; "winna the puir tykes hae an unco saft couch o' it,
think ye, luckie, O 'tis a gude sight for sair e'en to see 'em foundering and powtering i'
the latch o' the bit bog aneath."

"Nane o' your clashes e'enow, gudemon," said she, "but let the callant abune gang his gate
while he may."

"Ye're aye cute, dame," I cried, thrawing the bit gy abune, and in a gliffing, doun jumpit
the chiel, and a braw chiel he was sure enough, siccan my auld e'en sall ne'er see again, wi'
his brent brow and buirdly bowk wrappit in a tartan plaid, wi' a Highland kilt.

"May the gude God o' heaven sain you," he said "and ferd you for aye, for the braw deed ye
hae dreed the day; tak' this wee ring, gudemon, and tak' ye this ane, gudewife, and when ye
look on this and on that, I rede ye render up are prayer to him abune for the weal o' Charles
Edward, your unfortunate prince."

Sae speaking, he sped rath frae the bield, and was sune lost i' the glunch shadows o' the mirk
night.

Mony and mony a day has since rollit ower me, and I am now but a dour carle, whose auld pow
the roll o' time hath blanched; my bonnie Janet is gone to her last hame, lang syne, my bairns
hae a' fa'en kemping for their king and country, and I ainly am left like a withered auld trunk,
waiting heaven's gude time when I sall be laid i' the mouls wi' my forbears.

Abune--above.

Aiblins--perhaps.

Bagganet--bayonet.

Barns-breaking--idle frolic.

Belive--immediately.

Ben--inner apartment of a house that contains but two.

Bield--hut.

Bieldy--snug.

Bole--cottage window.

Bourds--jeers.

Brent-brow--smooth open forehead.

Buirdly-bowk--athletic frame.

Clashes--idle gossip.

Couping--overturning.

Cummer--comrade.

Curfuffle--agitation.

De'il gaed o'er Jock Wabster--everything went topsy-turvy.

Dour carle--rugged old man.

Dreed the day--done this day.

Droghling and coghling--puffing and blowing.

Ewest--nearest.

Fire flaught--flash of lightning.

Forbears--forefathers.

Fusht--tush.

Gared--made.

Gliff--fright.

Gliffing--very short time.

Gloaming--twilight.

Glowering--gazing.

Gy--rope.

Glunch--gloomy.

Harry--plunder.

Ingle--fire.

Ill--difficult.

Ilka--every.

Kemping--striving.

Laid i' the mouls--laid in the grave.

Low--flame.

Loaning--lane.

Luckie--dame.

Latch--mire.

Mirk--dark.

Out-taken--excepting.

Pow--head.

Powtering--groping.

Prigged--earnestly entreated.

Rath--quick.

Rede--pray.

Riggin--roof.

Sain--bless.

Sark fu' o' sair banes--sound beating.

Scoupit--scampered.

Shank yoursell's awa--take yourselves off.

Shealing--rude cottage.

Show 'em the cauld shouther--appear cold and reserved.

Skirl--shrill cry.

Sleuth-hounds--blood-hounds.

Speir--ask.

Steiked--shut.

Steer--injure.

Sunkie--low stool.

Threep--threaten.

Tirled at the door pin--knocked at the door.

Touzle out--ransack.

Tyke--dog.

Wampish--toss about.

Worriecows--hobgoblins.

Wuss--wish.

A G.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDIAN MAIDEN'S SONG,

BY WILLIAM SHOBERL.

The youth I love is far away.
  O'er forest, river, brake, and glen;
And distant, too, perchance the day,
  When I shall see him once again.

Nine moons have wasted[1] since we met,
  How sweetly, then, the moments flew!
Methinks the fairy vision yet
  Portrays the joy that ZEMLA knew.

In list'ning to the tale of strife,
  When Shone AZALCO'S prowess bright,
The strange adventures of his life,
  That gave me such unmix'd delight.

That dream of happiness is past!
  For ever fled those magic charms!
The cruel moment came at last,
  That tore AZALCO from my arms!

What bitter pangs my bosom rent,
  When he my sight no longer bless'd!
To some lone spot my steps I bent,
  My secret sorrows there confess'd.

My sighs, alas! were breath'd unheard,
  Could aught on earth dispel my grief?
Nor smiling sun, nor minstrel bird,
  Can give this aching heart relief.

[1] "Till now some nine moons wasted."--SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MERRY CHRISTMAS!

(For the Mirror.)

"Do you look for ale and cakes here, you rude rascals?"

SHAKSPEARE'S Henry the Eighth.

Since, my dear readers, even in this season of busy festivity I can spare a few moments to
write for your gratification, I venture to hope you will spare a few to read for mine.

And so here we are, once again on tiptoe for a merry Christmas and a happy new year. My good
friends, especially my fair friends, permit me to wish you both. Yes, Christmas is here--Christmas,
when winter and jollity, foul weather and fun, cold winds and hot pudding, good frosts and
good fires, are at their meridian! Christmas! With what dear associations is it fraught! I
remember the time when I thought that word cabalistical; when, in the gay moments of youth,
it seemed to me a mysterious term for every thing that is delightful; and such is the force
of early associations, that even now I cannot divest myself of them. Christmas has long ceased
to be to me what it once was; yet do I even now hail its return with pleasure, with enthusiasm.
But, alas! how differently is it viewed, not only by the same individual at different periods
of life, but by different individuals of the same age; by the rich and poor, the wretched and
the happy, the pampered and the penniless!

