'There ought to be none,' Probus replied. 'It ought to be a source of innocent pleasure, if
not of wholesome instruction, to gaze upon the imitated form of a good man--of a reformer,
a benefactor, a prophet. But man is so prone to religion,--it is an honorable instinct--that
you can scarce place before him an object of reverence but he will straightway worship it.
What were your gods but once men, first revered, then worshipped, and now their stone images
deemed to be the very gods themselves? Thus the original idea--the effect, we may believe,
of an early revelation--of one supreme Deity has been almost lost out of the world. Let the
figure of Christ be everywhere set before the people in stone or metal, and, what with the
natural tendency of the mind to idolatry, and the force of example in the common religion,
I fear it would not be long before he, whom we now revere as a prophet, would soon be worshipped
as a god; and the disciples whom you have named, in like manner, would no longer be remembered
with gratitude and affection as those who devoted their lives to the service of their fellow-men,
but be adored as inferior Deities, like your Castor and Pollux. I can conceive that, in the
lapse of ages, men shall be so redeemed from the gross conceptions that now inthrall them concerning
both God and his worship, and so nourished up to a divine strength by the power of truth, they
shall be in no danger from such sources; but shall reap all the pleasure and advantage which
can be derived from beautiful forms of art and the representation of great and excellent characters,
without ever dreaming that any other than the infinite and invisible Spirit of the universe
is to be worshipped, or held divine. The religion of Christ will itself, if aught can do it,
bring about such a period.'

'That then will be the time for artists to live, next after now,' said Demetrius of Palmyra.
'In the meantime, Probus, if Hellenism should decline and die, and your strict faith take its
place, art will decline and perish. We live chiefly by the gods and their worship.'

'If our religion,' replied Probus, 'should suffer injury from its own professors, in the way
it has, for a century or two more, it will give occupation enough to artists. Its corruptions
will do the same for you that the reign of absolute and perfect truth would.'

'The gods then grant that the corruptions you speak of may come in season, before I die. I
am tired of Jupiters, Mercurys, and Apollos. I have a great fancy to make a statue of Christ.
Brother! what think you, should I reach it? Most excellent Probus, should I make you such an
one for your private apartments I do not believe you would worship it, and doubtless it would
afford you pleasure. If you will leave a commission for such a work, it shall be set about
so soon as this god of the Emperor's is safe on his pedestal. What think you?'

'I should judge you took me, Demetrius, for the priest of a temple, or a noble of the land.
The price of such a piece of sculpture would swallow up more than all I am worth. Besides,
though I might not worship myself--though I say not but I might--I should give an ill example
to others, who, if they furnished themselves or their churches with similar forms, might not
have power over themselves, but relapse into the idolatry from which they are but just escaped.'

'All religions, as to their doctrine and precept, are alike to me,' replied Demetrius, 'only,
as a general principle, I should ever prefer that which has the most gods. Rome shows excellent
judgment in adopting all the gods of the earth, so that if the worship of one god will not
bring prosperity to the nation, there are others in plenty to try their fortune with again.
Never doubt, brother, that it is because you Christians have no gods, that the populace and
others are so hostile to you. Only set up a few images of Christ, and some of the other founders
of the religion, and your peace will be made. Otherwise I fear this man-killer will, like some
vulture, pounce upon you and tear you piecemeal. What, brother, have you learned of Aurelia?'

'Nothing with certainty. I could find only a confirmation from every mouth, but based on no
certain knowledge, of the rumor that reached us early in the morning. But what is so universally
reported, generally turns out true. I should, however, if I believed the fact of her imprisonment,
doubt the cause. I said that I could conceive of no other cause, and feared that if the fact
were so, the religion of Aurelian was the reason of her being so dealt with. It was like Aurelian,
if he had resolved upon oppressing the Christians to any extent whatever, that he should begin
with those who were nearest to him; first with his own blood, and then with those of his household.'

With this, and such like conversation, I passed a pleasant hour at the rooms of Demetrius.

       *       *       *       *       *

My wish was, as I turned from the apartments of Demetrius, to seek the Emperor or Livia, and
learn from them the exact truth concerning the reports current through the city. But, giving
way to that weakness which defers to the latest possible moment the confirmation of painful
news, and the resolution of doubts which one would rather should remain as doubts than be determined
the wrong way, in melancholy mood, I turned and retraced my steps. My melancholy was changed
to serious apprehension by all that I observed and heard on my way to the Coelian. As the crowd
in this great avenue, the Suburra, pressed by me, it was easy to gather that the Christians
had become the universal topic of conversation and dispute. The name of the unhappy Aurelia
frequently caught my ear. Threatening and ferocious language dropt from many, who seemed glad
that at length an Emperor had arisen who would prove faithful to the institutions of the country.
I joined a little group of gazers before the window of the rooms of Periander, at which something
rare and beautiful is always to be seen, who, I found, were looking intently at a picture,
apparently just from the hands of the artist, which represented Rome under the form of a beautiful
woman--Livia had served as the model--with a diadem upon her head, and the badges of kingly
authority in her hands, and at her side a priest of the Temple of Jupiter, "Greatest and Best",
in whose face and form might plainly be traced the cruel features of Fronto. The world was
around them. On the lowest earth, with dark shadows settling over them, lay scattered and broken,
in dishonor and dust, the emblems of all the religions of the world, their temples fallen and
in ruins. Among them, in the front ground of the picture, was the prostrate cross, shattered
as if dashed from the church, whose dilapidated walls and wide-spread fragments bore testimony
not so much to the wasting power of time as to the rude hand of popular violence; while, rearing
themselves up into a higher atmosphere, the temples of the gods of Rome stood beautiful and
perfect, bathed in the glowing light of a morning sun. The allegory was plain and obvious enough.
There was little attractive, save the wonderful art with which it was done. This riveted the
eye; and that being gained, the bitter and triumphant bigotry of the ideas set forth had time
to make its way into the heart of the beholder, and help to change its warm blood to gall.
Who but must be won by the form and countenance of the beautiful Livia? and, confounding Rome
with her, be inspired with a new devotion to his country, and its religion, and its lovely
queen? The work was inflaming and insidious, as it was beautiful. This was seen in what it
drew from those among whom I stood.

'By Jupiter!' said one, 'that is well done. They are all down, who can deny it! Those are ruins
not to be built up again. Who, I wonder, is the artist? He must be a Roman to the last drop
of his blood, and the last hair of his beard.'

'His name is Sporus,' replied his companion, 'as I hear, a kinsman of Fronto, the priest of
Apollo.'

'Ah, that's the reason the priest figures here,' cried the first, 'and the Empress too; for
they say nobody is more at the Gardens than Fronto. Well, he's just the man for his place.
If any man can bring up the temples again, it's he. Religion is no sham at the Temple of the
Sun. The priests are all what they pretend to be. Let others do so, and we shall have as much
reason to thank the Emperor for what he has done for the gods--and so for us all--as for what
he has done for the army, the empire, and the city.'

'You say well,' rejoined the other. 'He is for once a man, who, if he will, may make Rome what
she was before the empire, a people that honored the gods. And this picture seems as if it
spoke out his very plans, and I should not wonder if it were so.'

'Never doubt it. See, here lies a Temple of Isis flat enough; next to it one of the accursed
tribe of Jews. And what ruder pile is that?'

'That must be a Temple of the British worship, as I think. But the best of all, is this Christian
church: see how the wretches fly, while the work goes on! In my notion, this paints what we
may soon see.'

'I believe it! The gods grant it so! Old men, in my judgment, will live to see it all acted
out. Do you hear what is said? That Aurelian has put to death his own niece, the princess Aurelia?'

'That's likely enough,' said another, 'no one can doubt it. 'Tis easy news to believe in Rome.
But the question is what for?'

'For what else but for her impiety, and her aims to convert Mucapor to her own ways.'

'Well, there is no telling, and it's no great matter; time will show. Meanwhile, Aurelian forever!
He's the man for me!'

'Truly is he,' said one at his side, who had not spoken before, 'for thy life is spent at the
amphitheatres, and he is a good caterer for thee, sending in ample supplies of lions and men.'

'Whew! who is here? Take care! Your tongue, old man, has short space to wag in.'

'I am no Christian, knave, but I trust I am a man: and that is more than any can say of you,
that know you. Out upon you for a savage!'

The little crowd burst into loud laughter at this, and with various abusive epithets moved
away. The old man addressed himself to me, who alone remained as they withdrew,--

'Aurelian, I believe, would do well enough were he let alone. He is inclined to cruelty, I
know: but nobody can deny that, cruel or not, he has wrought most beneficial changes both in
the army and in the city. He has been in some sort, up to within the last half year, a censor,
greater than Valerian; a reformer, greater and better than even he. Had he not been crazed
by his successes in the East, and were he not now led, and driven, and maddened, by the whole
priesthood of Rome, with the hell-born Fronto at their head, we might look for a new and a
better Rome. But, as it is, I fear these young savages, who are just gone, will see all fulfilled
they are praying for. A fair day to you.'

And he too turned away. Others were come into the same spot, and for a long time did I listen
to similar language. Many came, looked, said nothing, and took their way, with paler face,
and head depressed, silent under the imprecations heaped upon the atheists, but manifestly
either of their side in sympathy, or else of the very atheists themselves.

I now sought my home, tired of the streets, and of all I had seen and heard. Many of my acquaintance,
and friends passed me on the way, in whose altered manner I could behold the same signs which,
in ruder form, I had just seen at the window of Periander. Not, Fausta, that all my friends
of the Roman faith are summer ones, but that, perhaps, most are. Many among them, though attached
firmly as my mother to the existing institutions, are yet, like her, possessed of the common
sentiments of humanity, and would venture much or all to divert the merest shadow of harm from
my head. Among these, I still pass some of my pleasantest and most instructive hours--for with
them the various questions involved in the whole subject of religion, are discussed with the
most perfect freedom and mutual confidence. Varus, the prefect, whom I met among others, greeted
me with unchanged courtesy. His sweetest smile was on his countenance as he swept by me, wishing
me a happy day. How much more tolerable is the rude aversion, or loud reproaches of those I
have told you of, than this honied suavity, that means nothing, and would be still the same
though I were on the way to the block.

As I entered my library, Solon accosted me, to say, that there had been one lately there most
urgent to see me. From his account, I could suppose it to be none other than the Jew Isaac,
who, Milo has informed me, is now returned to Rome, which he resorts to as his most permanent
home. Solon said that, though assured I was not at home, he would not be kept back, but pressed
on into the house, saying that 'these Roman nobles often sat quietly in their grand halls,
while they were denied to their poor clients. Piso was an old acquaintance of his when in Palmyra,
and he had somewhat of moment to communicate to him, and must see him.'

'No sooner,' said Solon, 'had he got into the library, the like of which, I may safely affirm,
he had never seen before, for his raiment betokened a poor and ragged life, than he stood,
and gazed as much at his ease as if it had been his own, and then, by Hercules! unbuttoning
his pack, for he was burdened with one both before and behind, he threw his old limbs upon
a couch, and began to survey the room! I could not but ask him, If he were the elder Piso,
old Cneius Piso, come back from Persia, in Persian beard and gown?--'Old man,' said he, 'your
brain is turned with many books, and the narrow life you lead here, shut out from the living
world of man. One man is worth all the books ever writ, save those of Moses. Go out into the
streets and read him, and your senses will come again. Cneius Piso! Take you me for a spirit?
I am Isaac the Jew, citizen of the world, and dealer in more rarities and valuables than you
ever saw or dreamed of. Shall I open my parcels for thee?' No, said I, I would not take thy
poor gewgaws for a gift. One worm-eaten book is worth them all.--'God restore thy reason!'
said he, 'and give thee wisdom before thou diest; and that, by thy wrinkles and hairless pate
must be soon.' What more of false he would have added I know not, for at that moment he sprang
from where he sat like one suddenly mad, exclaiming, 'Holy Abraham! what do my eyes behold,
or do they lie? Surely that is Moses! Never was he on Sinai, if his image be not here! Happy
Piso! and happy Isaac to be the instrument of such grace! Who could have thought it? And yet
many a time, in my dreams, have I beheld him, with a beard like mine, his hat on his head,
his staff in his hand, as if standing at the table of the Passover, the princess with him,
and--dreams will do such things--a brood of little chickens at their side. And now--save the
last--it is all come to pass. And here, too, who may this be? who, but Aaron, the younger and
milder! He was the speaker, and lo! his hand is stretched out! And this young Joseph is at
his knee the better to interpret his character to the beholder. Moses and Aaron in the chief
room of a Roman senator, and he, a Piso! Now, Isaac, thou mayest tie on thy pack, and take
thy leave with a merry heart, for God, if never before, now accepteth thy works.' And much
more, noble sir, in the same raving way, which was more dark to my understanding than the darkest
pages of Aristotle.'

I gathered from Solon, that he would return in the evening in the hope to see me, for he had
that to impart which concerned nearly my welfare.

I was watching with Julia, from the portico which fronts the Esquiline and overlooks the city,
the last rays of the declining sun, as they gilded the roofs and domes of the vast sea of building
before us, lingering last upon, and turning to gold the brazen statues of Antonine and of Trajan,
when Milo approached us, saying that Isaac had returned. He was in a moment more with us.

'Most noble Piso,' said he, 'I joy to see thee again; and this morning, I doubt not, I should
have seen thee, but for the obstinacy of an ancient man, whose wits seem to have been left
behind as he has gone onward. I seek thee, Piso, for matters of moment. Great princess,' he
suddenly cried, turning to Julia with as profound a reverence as his double burden would allow,
'glad am I to greet thee in Rome; not glad that thou wert forced to flee here, but glad that
if, out of Palmyra, thou art here in the heart of all that can best minister to thy wants.
Not a wish can arise in the heart but Rome can answer it. Nay, thou canst have few for that
which is rare and costly, but even I can answer them. Hast thou ever seen, princess, those
diamonds brought from the caves of mountains a thousand miles in the heart of India, in which
there lurks a tint, if I may so name it, like this last blush of the western sky? They are
rarer than humanity in a Roman, or apostacy in a Jew, or truth in a Christian. I shall show
thee one.' And he fell to unlacing his pack, and drawing forth its treasures.

Julia assured him, she should see with pleasure whatever he could show her of rich or rare.

'There are, lady, jewelers, as they name themselves in Rome, who dwell in magnificent houses,
and whose shops are half the length of a street, who cannot show you what Isaac can out of
an old goatskin pack. And how should they? Have they, as I have, traveled the earth's surface
and trafficked between crown and crown? What king is there, whose necessities I have not relieved
by purchasing his rarest gems; or whose vanity I have not pleased by selling him the spoils
of another? Old Sapor, proud as he was, was more than once in the grasp of Isaac. There! it
is in this case--down, you see, in the most secret part of my pack--but who would look for
wealth under this sordid covering? as who, lady, for a soul within this shriveled and shattered
body? yet is there one there. In such outside, both of body and bag, is my safety. Who cares
to stop the poor man, or hold parley with him? None so free of the world and its high ways
as he; safe alike in the streets of Rome, and on the deserts of Arabia. His rags are a shield
stouter than one of seven-fold bull's hide. Never but in such guise could I bear such jewels
over the earth's surface. Here, lady, is the gem; never has it yet pressed the finger of queen
or subject. The stone I brought from the East, and Demetrius, here in Rome, hath added the
gold. Give me so much pleasure--'

And he placed it upon Julia's finger. It flashed a light such as we never before saw in stone.
It was evidently a most rare and costly gem. It was of great size and of a hue such as I had
never before seen.

'This is a queen's ring, Isaac,' said Julia--'and for none else.'

'It well becomes the daughter of a queen'--replied the Jew, 'and the wife of Piso--specially
seeing that--Ah, Piso! Piso! how was I overjoyed to-day to see in thy room the evidence that
my counsels had not been thrown away. The Christian did not gain thee with all his cunning--'

'Nay, Isaac'--I here interrupted him--'you must not let your benevolent wishes lead you into
error. I am not yet a Jew. Those images that caught your eye were not wholly such as you took
them for.'

