The disposition to conciliate the blacks eventually contributed to the same disastrous consequences.
A tribe, of sixty, appeared in Hobart Town, November, 1824: they came in a peaceable manner,
their visit was unexpected, and its cause unknown. On the first notice of their approach, the
Governor went forth to meet them: he assigned three places for their fires, supplied them with
food and blankets, and appointed constables to protect them. They departed suddenly, and on
their journey attempted to spear a white man. Whether the abrupt retreat resulted from caprice
or distrust, it did not prevent a similar visit to Launceston in the following December. There
were 200 in this party. When crossing Patterson's Plains they were wantonly fired on by the
whites, and in their return some of their women were treated with indescribable brutality.[7]
When they reached the Lake River, two sawyers, who had never before suffered molestation, were
wounded by their spears. The recent cruelty they had experienced fully accounted for their rage.

It was the anxious desire of the Governor to establish a native institution, deriving its funds
partly from the public purse and partly from private benevolence. A code was prepared by the
Rev. Messrs. Bedford and Mansfield; and a public meeting held in the church of St. David, the
Governor presiding, approved the regulations; but at that time the colony was distracted by
the ravages of robbers, and its financial resources were depressed: and the prevailing opinion
that civilisation was impossible, still further embarrassed the project, and confined the hopes
of the most sanguine to the rising generation. Mr. Mansfield rested his expectation rather
on the power of God than upon human probabilities.

The civilisation of a barbarous people is, perhaps, impossible, in the presence of organised
communities of white men. The contrast is too great, and the points of contact too numerous
and irritating. Never have colonists civilised aborigines; but the failure is easily explained,
without recourse to egotistical superstition, that the white man's shadow is, to men of every
other hue, by law of Heaven, the shadow of death.

The children of aborigines, adopted by the whites, when they grew to maturity, were drawn to
the woods, and resumed the habits of their kindred. A black girl, trained in Launceston, thus
allured, laid aside her clothing, which she had worn nearly from infancy. It was thus with
many: a sense of inferiority to the youth about them, united with the mysterious interest which
every heart feels in kindred sympathies, is sufficient to account for these relapses. Examples
will crowd upon the memory of the reader, in which the polish and caresses of the British capital
did not disqualify the savage to re-enter with zest on the barbarous pursuits of his forefathers.

The desire for sugar, bread, and blankets, could only be regularly gratified by an abandonment
of migratory habits.

When remote from the government stores, the natives still coveted what they could not obtain,
but as spoil. They had learned to prefer articles of steel to the crystal, and they acquired
an imperfect mastery of fire-arms. Some were, however, exceedingly expert; a chief, conciliated
by Robinson, brought down an eagle hawk, with all the airs of a practised sportsman. Thus their
untutored nature could not resist the temptation created by new wants: they watched the hut
of the stock-keeper, which they stripped during his absence; till, growing more daring, they
disregarded his presence; and even the populous districts, and establishments of considerable
force, were not safe from their depredations.

At the time when they first became formidable, armed bushrangers scoured the colony; sometimes
the allies of the natives, much oftener their oppressors.[8] Outlaws themselves, they inculcated
the arts of violence. The improved caution and cunning of the natives, so often noticed by
the government, were ascribed, in no small degree, to the treacherous lessons of degraded Europeans.
But when the bushranger did not employ these people as the instrument of his designs, by fear
or cruelty, often he destroyed them: thus Lemon and Brown set up the natives as marks to fire
at. The irritated savage confounded the armed, though unoffending stock-keeper, with his marauding
countrymen, and missing the object of his premeditated vengeance, speared the first substitute
he encountered. This conclusion is amply supported by facts. The common principles which affect
the minds of nations towards each other; the reprisals, which are vindicated in civilised war,
only differ in circumstance. A thousand injuries, never recorded, if stated in a connexion
with these results, would enable us to see how often the harmless settler was sacrificed to
passions, provoked by his robber countrymen.

In 1826, a remarkable instance was brought under the notice of government. Dunne, who at length
met the punishment he deserved, seized a woman, and forced her to the hut of Mr. Thompson,
on the Shannon, where he detained her with violence; she, however, escaped to her people, and
roused them to avenge her. Dunne, next morning, suddenly found himself in their midst: his
musket protected him, and after hours of such torture as his conscience and fears might inflict,
he managed to get off. On the following day, the woman led her tribe, vociferating threats,
to the hut in which she had been maltreated, where they massacred James Scott, a man with whom
they had lived in friendship for many years, and who, when warned a few days before to be on
his guard, smiled at the notion of danger.

The treatment of some of these women was such, as no one can be expected to credit, until prepared
by extensive acquaintance with human depravation. A monster boasted that, having captured a
native woman, whose husband he had killed, he strung the bleeding head to her neck, and drove
her before him as his prize. Had not this fact been guaranteed by formal enquiry, it could
only have been admitted as a specimen of brutal gasconade, and in proof of how much a cruel
fancy could exceed the actual guilt of mankind. It sometimes happened, that an unfortunate
servant would receive the spear intended for his predecessor in the same employ, to whom it
was justly due. Among the whites, there were men distinguished for the malicious vigour with
which they tracked and murdered the native people. A lad, on his arrival from England, was
sent into the interior, and warned never to wander from his dwelling; but he forgot the danger
he did not see, and straying a short distance, he was murdered. He had never injured his destroyers;
but then he lived on the lands just before in charge of a villain, and who, like a Roman warrior,
took his name of "Abyssinian Tom," from the locality of his exploits.

The infliction of judicial punishments, interrupted the friendly intercourse of the tribe that
visited Hobart Town, and who were encouraged to resort to Kangaroo Point, where huts were erected
for their use. The arrest of two of their number filled them with apprehension. The aborigines,
Jack and Dick, were executed on the 16th September, 1826, an event which terminated all present
hope of amicable relations. The murder of a shepherd at Oyster Bay, Great Swan Port, was proved
against them by the evidence of convict stock-keepers; a topic of contemporary complaint: but
the courts regularly relied on the same class of witnesses, and in this case there is no special
reason for suspicion. The fact was not questioned: the culprits had been treated with kindness
by the government, and efforts had been made by Colonel Arthur to acquaint them with the obligations
of British subjects. He asserts that, by personal interviews, he was fully convinced that they
understood the benevolent views of the crown. One of these blacks was so far civilised, as
to be admitted to the sacrament of the English church. His companion was a youth, and denied
his guilt. The old black was carried to the scaffold, and resisted the execution: the younger,
disentangled his arms, and struggled for his life. It was, indeed, a melancholy spectacle.
Successive Governors had witnessed crimes against their race, atrocious and unpunished: hundreds
had fallen unavenged by that public justice which treated them as murderers.

On the day of their execution, the Governor addressed the colony. He vindicated this act of
severity, as requisite to intimidate the blacks; but he solemnly pledged his government to
equal justice, and that the law should take its course on individuals of either race, who might
violate "the common law of mankind."

The discussions which followed, proved the division of public opinion on the propriety of this
measure. It was not clear, to many, that the natives were legally accountable, or that their
punishment was just. Grotius and Vattel were quoted; writers, who have discoursed upon the
relations of man, and distinguished the felon from the enemy. It was, however, simply a question
between judicial and private vengeance: the interference of the court could alone prevent a
general proscription. In the heat of anger, no provocation would be weighed--no palliative
admitted; and the innocent would perish with the guilty.[9]

The impression on the aborigines was unfavorable: they saw only the death of an unfortunate
countryman, and, perhaps, the last act of the white man's warfare. Its moral influence was
not great on either race: it neither softened the resentment of the British, nor intimidated
the blacks: it was a mere variety in the forms of destruction. The brother of one of these
men led the Oyster Bay tribe, and prompted the murders which, in 1830, filled the colony with
wailing.

The rapid colonisation of the island from 1821 to 1824, and the diffusion of settlers and servants
through districts hitherto unlocated, added to the irritation of the natives, and multiplied
the agents of destruction. Land unfenced, and flocks and herds moving on hill and dale, left
the motions of the native hunters free; but hedges and homesteads were signals which even the
least rationality could not fail to understand, and on every re-appearance the natives found
some favorite spot surrounded by new enclosures, and no longer theirs.

The proclamations of the government assumed the fixed relations of the different tribes to
particular districts. Oyster Bay and the Big River were deemed sufficiently precise definitions
of those tribes, exposed to public jealousy and prosecution. It is true, they had no permanent
villages, and accordingly no individual property in land; but the boundaries of each horde
were known, and trespass was a declaration of war.

The English, of modern times, will not comprehend joint ownership, notwithstanding the once
"common" property of the nation has been only lately distributed by law. The rights of the
aborigines were never recognised by the crown; yet it is not less certain that they saw with
intelligence the progress of occupation, and felt that the gradual alienation of their hunting
grounds implied their expulsion and extinction.

Native topography is, indeed, limited; but it is exact. Every mountain, valley, and river,
is distinguished and named. The English have often been indebted to these primitive surveyors,
for guidance through the forests which they came to divide. The tribes took up their periodical
stations, and moved with intervals so regular, that their migrations were anticipated, as well
as the season of their return. The person employed in their pursuit, by the aid of his native
allies, was able to predict at what period and place he should find a tribe, the object of
his mission; and though months intervened, he found them in the valley, and at the time he
had foretold. Expectations of this sort could only be justified by the regularity of their
movements, and the exact knowledge of the guides.[10] Nor were they indifferent to the charms
of a native land. A visitor enquired of a native woman at Flinders, whether she preferred that
place to several others mentioned, where she had lived at times, and she answered with indifference;
but when, to test her attachment to her early haunts, the querist said, "and not Ringarooma?"
she exclaimed, with touching animation, "Oh yes! Ringarooma! Ringarooma!"

A chief accompanied the commandant to Launceston in 1847. At his own earnest request, he was
taken to see the Cataract Basin of the South Esk, a river which foams and dashes through a
narrow channel of precipitous rocks, until a wider space affords it tranquillity. It was a
station of his people; precisely the kind of spot which gypsies, on the "business of Egypt,"
would choose for their tents. As he drew nigh, his excitement was intense: he leaped from rock
to rock, with the gestures and exclamations of delight. So powerful were his emotions, that
the lad with him became alarmed, lest the associations of the scene should destroy the discipline
of twelve years exile: but the woods were silent: he heard no voice save his own, and he returned
pensively with his young companion. These examples shew, that the native was not an indifferent
spectator of that rapid occupation, which must have appeared prodigious to scattered tribes.

A further cause of exasperation, consequent on the preceding, was the destruction of game.
The extent to which it was carried was enormous. The skin of the kangaroo sold for a few pence,
was the perquisite of the stock-keepers, and long the chief object of their daily enterprise.
Their rugs, their clothing, were composed often of these spoils, and the pursuit did not slacken
until the persecuted animal retired. Jeffery, describing the field sports of his day (1810),
tells us that flocks of emu and kangaroo were found at short intervals, and that a cart might
be loaded with their flesh by the sport of a morning; but he remained long enough, to observe
a sensible diminution, and proposed limitations by law to the havoc of the whites; an idea,
subsequently entertained by the Aborigines' Committee, which sat in 1830. The dogs, trained
to hunt the kangaroo, were at first serviceable to the natives, but they often increased the
destruction by their spontaneous ravening. It is observed by a writer of 1827, that forty or
fifty would be found within short distances, run down by the dogs, and left to rot.

Thus the food, on which the people depended for subsistence, was diminished, and the temptation
to rob the settlers was regularly augmented at every return. Sir George Arthur, in his letter
to the Secretary of State in 1828, notices this topic as a complaint of the natives against
the intrusion of the whites, and seems to admit its truth; but three years after, he affirms
that game was still abundant in the districts appointed for the tribes. It is, however, to
be observed, that he wrote when the blacks, as a people, were dead; and when the high value
of labor had withdrawn many from the chase; and that he implies a local, rather than a pervading
abundance. As the natives passed through the settled districts to the sea shore, if numerous,
their requirements would be great; but, by scattering themselves abroad, to obtain a sufficiency,
their dangers would increase, and every evening they would muster fewer than in the morning.[11]

Among the causes of enmity, referred to by writers of every period, the abduction of the women
by sealers and others, is noticed the earliest, and continued to the last. The sealers were,
chiefly, either convicts whose sentences had expired, or such as contrived to escape. In the
islands of the Straits, they indulged the boundless license of their passions, blending the
professions of the petty pirate and the fisherman. A chain of rocks enabled them to rove to
a considerable distance, picking up the refuse of the sea, and feeding on the aquatic birds
which frequented the islets in great abundance. Many, however, perished, with the frail boats
to which they committed their lives. Their first stage was known as "Clarke's Island;" from
thence they made "Preservation Island:" a succession of rocks formed land marks in their course
to New Holland, from which many found their way to Kangaroo Island, the Ultima Thule of their
geography. In these places, they engaged in sealing; the produce of which they sold to the
small craft trading among them, for guns, spirits, and tobacco. When the season was over, they
retired to the interior, and passed their days in alternate slumber and intoxication.

So secure were some of these retreats, that they justified the apprehension, that formidable
pirates would be trained up in their lawless and licentious communities. They were perpetually
disturbed by violence. One old man spent thirteen years on an island, alone. He cultivated
a plot of ground, and sold the produce to the boats which floated about. Several times robbed
of his crops and clothing, by these contemptible spoilers, he, at last, was compelled to renounce
his rude independence. In King's Island, families sat down; but Colonel Arthur, sensible of
the great danger of these associations, sent the harbour master to the Straits, who arrested
absconders, and released native women from slavery.

By these men, the black women and female children were captured in excursions to this island,
and were liable to the ill-treatment, which might be expected from men who regarded them with
passion and contempt. They were employed as slaves on some islands, to strip the mutton bird,
and in whatever irksome labor was within their capacity. It is said that one man (Harrison),
had fourteen women in his service, whom he flogged with military severity, and some of whom
he put to death.

Boatswain, an aged woman, stolen in her youth, related the manner of her abduction. She was
induced to enter a boat, without suspicion of the design, when her captors rowed away, and
confined her on an island in the Straits. She told her treatment, in broken English and expressive
pantomime; first spreading forth her hands, as if fastened to the wall; then, with loud cries,
gradually becoming fainter, she fell down into a pretended swoon: thus describing the mode
and severity of her torture.

These men acquired an extraordinary dominion over the fears of the women, sufficient to induce
them to dissemble in the presence of strangers. Backhouse relates, that two girls, Jumbo and
Jackey, pretended, while in the company of their masters, either by silence, or feigned anger,
to resent the proposal to take them away; but when they were assured that their liberty would
be protected, they embraced it with joy.

Jeffreys, whose narrative is tinged with romance, depicts the fondness and contentment of the
women in lively colors. Glad to escape the tyranny of their countrymen, they displayed to these
amiable white men, warm, though jealous, affection;--whose occasional absence they regretted,
and for whose speedy return they invoked some imaginary deity in plaintive melodies! It is
not improbable, that they were sensible of kindness, but it is very certain that this was not
their ordinary lot. Unanimous testimony permits no doubt that they experienced the severity,
which men of low intellect, and of fierce and capricious passions, inflict on women of an inferior
race.

The sealers, when they came to the main land, rarely brought their captives: they were in danger
of losing them. Their fickleness or revenge, was sometimes fatal: in 1824, a party, engaged
in an expedition to entice the girls of a tribe, took with them one who had a half-caste infant,
and sent her on shore as a decoy. She returned, bringing promises from her countrywomen to
appear the following day; but at that time the blacks descended in great force, and all the
adventurers, except one, were slain.

The sealers, by the names they gave the women, which were rarely feminine, and were sometimes
ludicrously absurd, indicated the notions which prevailed. However slight their apparent importance,
it has been justly observed, they betray the low civilisation of the persons who invented,
and the degraded condition of those who bore them.

The intercourse of the stockmen was generally confined to the periods of migration: sometimes
with the connivance, at others, the express consent of the men; but the detention was often
compulsory. Dr. Ross found a stock-keeper seated on a fallen tree, exhausted with hunger. He
had chained a woman to a log, "to tame her;" but she escaped, with his only shirt, which he
had bestowed in his fondness. For five hours he had pursued her, catching glimpses of his shirt
through the breaks of the forest: at last, this signal disappeared; and having lost his way
for two days, he was in danger of starvation.

Such were the various causes, which combined first to alarm, and then to goad into madness,
this unhappy people. They were troublesome, and were repelled. Wantonly wounded and shot down,
they retaliated. Fresh wrongs produced their kind: at length, every white man was a guerilla,
and every black an assassin. The original temper of both parties was changed. Dread detestation
and treachery embittered every mind: even the humane yielded to the general sentiment. It became
a question, which race should perish, and every man's verdict was in favor of his own.

From this, however, it is not to be inferred, that the natives were originally treacherous
and cruel. It was stated by the Aborigines' Committee, in the middle of the conflict, that
such dispositions were the substratum of their character, which, though disguised, only waited
for time and opportunity. The colonists in general, at last, believed them to delight in blood,
by an innate cruelty of temper--to find pleasure in the terrors they excited, and the convulsive
agonies of the dying; but the records of mankind are full of such moral transformations. The
Indians of America, we are informed by Dr. Dwight, became corrupt, to a degree "enormous and
dreadful: full of malice, cruelty, and murders." But he himself, elsewhere remarks, that within
his observation white men, commonly sober, moral, and orderly, on joining a mob, lost every
one of these qualities; and, in a few hours of excitement, exhibited more vice than he had
witnessed for years. The causes of degeneracy are not examined, when its mischief is suffered.
Sir George Arthur, in his despatches, asserted that the natives were, and had been, "a most
treacherous race,"--a view, which the Committee adopted: these opinions were afterwards greatly
modified; nor would it be just to admit their truth, without stronger evidence than history
affords. Among the aborigines, some were distinguished for ferocity: such was a woman who led
on the Big River tribe, and who was called by Mr. Robinson, the "Amazon." A few were guilty
of the crimes imputed to the race: and who were often their oppressors, rather than their avengers.

Though individuals, undoubtedly, displayed the vices imputed, who will condemn the natural
disposition of a people for actions committed at lone intervals, by solitary assassins and
marauders? The English alone could preserve a record of the past, and after a careful examination
no other conclusion is possible, than that whoever continued acts of ferocity and cruelty,
the impulse and the example were European.

Dr. Ross, arriving in 1822, passed into the interior, and settled on a farm. He was soon visited
by the natives, whom he entertained with the consideration due to their ignorance and their
rights. They had kindled their fires in perilous contiguity, and the flames threatened to destroy
his crops. He pointed out his danger, and they instantly combined to extinguish the flame,
and transferred their temporary resting place to a spot, from which no harm could be communicated.
Dr. Ross stood by, and watched their cookery, and they offered him a part of their food: he
suffered himself to be amused with their loud merriment, and their evolutions in the water.
They often renewed their visits, and rather contributed to his safety, by assisting in the
pursuit of white robbers: and even when they inflicted dreadful outrages on many others, provoked
by extraordinary mal-treatment, they still preserved their kindness for this amiable man, until
they were finally removed to Flinders' Island.

These incidents were not uncommon:--the cross lights, which seem to exhibit variously the character
of a race, but in reality identify the family of man. To judge of a people, during a season
of extraordinary excitement, must tend to erroneous conclusions: thus, when we turn to contemporary
writings, we are amazed at the ferocity of expression--the sweeping and sanguinary appeals,
by which they are disfigured; but this astonishment is corrected, when we examine the incidents
they record, and recollect how little qualified men are to reason, when they are doomed to
suffer. So with the native: the delirium of rage, and the taste for blood, had been produced
by causes of long operation; and he appeared to be a fiend full of mischief and spite, marked
out by his crimes for utter extinction.[12]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: The ruffians who maltreated them were, indeed, punished with 25 lashes!]

[Footnote 8: Whether from policy or humanity, Michael Howe formed an exception. He did not
allow them to be molested, except "in battle;" and he flogged with the cat one of his comrades,
who had broken "the articles," by wantonly wounding a native.--Stated by a companion.]

[Footnote 9: In sentencing Rodger, at Port Phillip, 1842, Judge Willis told him that he had
been tried by an intelligent jury; that he could have challenged any of them; that to say he
had never been in a court of justice before, was a common plea with white malefactors, and
that he knew as much on the subject as many immigrants. When he was sentenced, the Rev. Mr.
Hurst explained to him, that he would be hanged! This was requisite, as the judge's address
was utterly unintelligible.]

[Footnote 10: "The natives are tenacious of their hunting grounds, as the settlers are of their
farms, and are displeased when they find houses upon them. This caused the attack of live stock
and huts."--R. O'Connor, Esq.

"When a chart of Tasmania is presented to them, it seems only to embody the form and dimensions,
which their own fancy enabled them to sketch."--Tasmanian Journal--Rev. T. Dove.

"It was a great oversight, that a treaty was not made with the natives; that feeling of injustice,
which I am persuaded they have always entertained, would have then had no existence."--Sir
George Arthur's Despatch to Lord Glenelg, 1835.]

[Footnote 11: "The extension of the settled districts upon their usual hunting grounds, has
either driven them entirely from them, or removed the kangaroo. They are quite disappointed
of their usual supplies. We have never known them to eat the flesh of either sheep or cattle."--Courier,
1830.

The extent of their consumption, might be inferred from the increase after their exit. To preserve
their crops, some settlers were obliged to employ hunters. In 1831, from Bothwell only, 100,000
skins were sent to Hobart Town, bearing a value of £2,000.]

SECTION IV.

The violence of the natives seemed to require some extraordinary means for its repression,
and (in November, 1826) it was resolved to capture the leaders, by the usual methods of arrest.
The magistrates were authorised, by the Governor, when danger was feared, to drive them to
a safe distance by force: to repress their attempts at disturbance, by treating them as rioters;
to seize those charged with felonies, whether known by marks or by names, or by the denomination
of their tribe; and any person was authorised to raise the neighbourhood, on witnessing the
commission of a crime. This notice was renewed the following year, and the military stationed
in the interior, were instructed to render such assistance as might be necessary, for its practical
application.

But these measures were not attended with much success, and in April,
1828, the natives were forbidden to enter the settled districts of the
colony. They were permitted to pass through them, when on their passage
to the shore, provided their chiefs guaranteed their quietness, and
possessed a pass under the hand and seal of the Governor. A line, drawn
from Piper's River to St. Patrick's Head, separated the regions allotted
to them on that side; another, included Tasman's Peninsula; a third,
southward of Mount Wellington to the ocean; and the fourth, from the
Huon, by Western Bluff, south-west to the sea. Thus the proclamation cut
out the centre of the island: a square at the north-west,
belonged to the Van Diemen's Land Company, and others; southward, from
Ben Lomond, including most of the rivers, plains, and lagoons. Into
these, they were forbidden to intrude. There remained, the forests
of the south-west; the western coasts, where the skies for ever weep;
and the barren shores of the north-east. To drive them on these regions
 was the duty of the forces, and their employment for years. The natives
 returned regularly with the season, like birds of passage--avenging
the losses of their last retreat: they retired at the usual
time--diminished, but unsubdued.

In looking at these orders and proclamations, it is impossible to regard them in any other
light than as plans of military operation. That the natives would surrender to a warrant or
a challenge; that they would remain in remote regions, from which they had always been accustomed
to come forth; that their chiefs had power to enforce the mandates of the Governor, or that
they would preserve an official document, they could neither read nor understand--these were
contingencies which, though desirable, were certainly not probable. The precise and legal language
of the instruments, provoked much ridicule, and might justify a smile. They were chiefly dictated
by a gentleman, whose mental aberration led to his removal from office. It is, however, difficult
to suggest more explicit forms, and the announcement of the plans of government was a proper
preliminary to their execution.

It was the desire of the Governor, earnestly expressed, to protect the settlers, and yet to
mitigate their resentment. The use of arms was forbidden, while other means were untried, and
rewards were offered to any person who might venture into communication with the natives, to
explain the objects of the government. They were invited to seek redress of their grievances;
and pictures were suspended in the wood, in which the white man was represented shooting the
native, and the Governor hanging the white.

These remedies were, however, ineffectual; and in November, 1828, the settled districts were
placed under the protection of martial law. Nine parties, under Messrs. G. Robertson, Batman,
and Jorgenson, consisting of seven persons each, and assisted by the military when requisite,
were employed to enforce the proclamation. Mr. Anstey, the magistrate, directed the operations
in the centre of the island, and volunteers not unfrequently joined in the repulsion or pursuit
of this unhappy people.

The celebrated chief, Eumarrah, was captured by Mr. Gilbert Robertson, in the Eastern Marshes,
in 1828. This euphonius name, which so interests the ear, it is said, was a corruption or improvement
of the name of a colonist, Hugh Murray, and adopted by the savage. A strong party, consisting
of military and constables, surrounded the hut, in which this chief and others were sheltered.
Five furious dogs rush towards Mr. Robertson, the foremost of the party: having fired off his
piece, and seized a lad scrambling away, by him he was directed to a sheet of bark, under which
Eumarrah was concealed. While prostrate, a shot was fired at him, which inflicted a flesh wound,
and the musket of a soldier was broken by beating him. Such is Robertson's indignant account
of his capture. With the chief, three others, Jack, Dolly, and Jemmy, were taken: the portrait
of the last has rather an innocent expression, and has been honored with publication. This
party, removed first to Richmond, and then to Hobart Town, soon appeared reconciled to their
captivity: all, but Eumarrah. He was pensive and reserved, and, for a time, resented his bondage.
It is said, the outrages he had committed, would have forfeited his life, had not his captor
earnestly maintained that he was a prisoner of war; and that to put him to death, would be
to equal his crimes.

The expeditions were attended with the same general incidents, and it would be tedious to multiply
examples. The number of prisoners was lamentably disproportioned to the many that perished.
To identify a particular offender was impossible, nor was it of much importance, since the
natives now were animated by one spirit. The amazing agility with which they moved; their magical
powers of self concealment; their destitution of dress, the greasing of their skin, and the
vigilance of their watch-dogs, rendered it nearly impossible to seize them in open day.

An alarm would be given, that the blacks were approaching, and a party, commissioned to repress
them, would immediately advance; often blundering and incautious, shouting, smoking, and straggling
about; carelessly firing their pieces, and affording abundant information of their approach.
Thus, after a fatiguing march, the natives, whom they were sent out to meet, would be observed
in their rear, having already committed the premeditated depredation. Not that it was easy
to elude their observation, if they were conscious of pursuit, and it was nearly impossible
to overtake them.

Mr. Gilbert Robertson, after capturing Eumarrah, was twelve months without success. One tribe
he followed with pertinacity, were not far off through the whole chase. Their fires were visible:
they were, for several days, on the hills, not more than four miles from the British; but they
"beat round and round, like a hare." A tribe, after a hot pursuit, concealed their tracks,
and suddenly vanished. They regularly posted sentinels: passed over the most dangerous ground,
and, on the margin of fearful precipices: they would lie down beside a log--stone dead, and
could not be distinguished from the charred fragments of the forest. Those who imagined that
their eyes had never been averted, would yet lose sight of the subtle enemy. They could not
catch them, except by stratagem; or, when they were caught, they could not hold them.[13] The
few captives that were obtained, when they thought proper, easily made their escape. They confined
them in a room: next morning, they had passed through the flue into the open air, and freedom.

The extreme difficulty connected with their arrest by day, led to their rapid destruction.
The pursuers would watch, as the evening gathered in, the thin smoke of the distant fires:
they would cautiously advance, and conceal themselves till midnight. The superstitious terror
of the black, prevented his wandering from the camp, lest the evil spirit that haunted the
darkness should carry him away. Thus, stretched around the fire, the natives were easily seen,
and musketry told with terrible effect. Their dogs, instead of promoting their safety, sometimes
led to their sacrifice. A party, preparing to surround and capture them without bloodshed,
would move with quiet steps, without giving notice to the aborigines; but just when all was
prepared for the last movement, some cur of ill omen would start up, and rouse them. They would
seize their spears and attempt to flee; and the whites, now disappointed of a bloodless capture,
would commence the slaughter.

In 1828, a tribe of natives threw stones at the constables, from a hill. They returned a volley
of shot; then charged with the bayonet: the whole were slain. The excuse for the massacre was,
that having no more ammunition, the constables had no other means of defence, and that to retreat
was dangerous. An exploit, claimed by a corporal and party of the 40th regiment, is disputed.
They professed to have discovered a tribe lodged on the shelf of a rock, inclosed by wall-like
heights. They poured in their fire, and dragged the women and children from their shelter:
all perished. This was stated to be a mere tale of pretended success, and devised to satisfy
the neighbourhood, that the men had done their duty. It proves, at least, that such achievements
were in request. How fearful a condition for the government to tolerate, or for a colony to
approve.

In these expeditions, natives were often the guides, and were enabled to follow up the track
of their countrymen, when the English were confounded. In those troublesome times, individuals
of the tribes were often left behind. It was the custom to fix small pieces of stick at short
distances, to assist the stragglers in rejoining their main body. For a time, these signals
being understood by the black guides, brought them quickly on the route of the fugitives; but
the guides soon betrayed or exhausted this device, and though they continued to leave direction
sticks, they reversed their meaning, and distracted their pursuers.

The Tasmanian allies themselves, were exceedingly uncertain, and prone to escape. They disclosed
to their countrymen the plans adopted for their capture, related the expeditions they had witnessed,
and added new excitements to rage. Sydney natives were obtained, to assist in the capture:
Pigeon and John Crook, under the care of Mr. Batman, promoted the success of the undertaking.
Pigeon narrowly escaped being shot: he wandered from his party, and was seen by a stockman
in a tree, who fired, in spite of his endeavours to explain. Pigeon then slipped down, and
reached his friends, only in time to avoid the second charge of his pertinacious antagonist.
The story is worth relating, not on account of the actors, but because it displays how cheap,
at that hour, was the life of a native, although peaceably living in the forests of his country.

Among those distinguished for the knowledge of the bush, compassion for the natives, and skill
in pursuing them, Mr. Batman was the subject of frequent and approving mention. It is said
by Backhouse, that his parties killed thirty, and captured five. Occasionally, natives were
found in the neighbourhood of Ben Lomond. In one instance, it is recorded, that ten fell, and
that two were taken; and in another, that forty received the fire, and left behind them trails
of blood, but no captives. On another, fifteen or sixteen were said to fall, out of a party
of seventy: three hundred buck shot were poured into an encampment, at twenty yards distance.
It would be endless to recite conflicts of this kind: they probably were but a multiplication
of a short bulletin, referring to an expedition--"five shot, and one taken." Looked at alone,
even in the mildest form, these measures are revolting; but to Mr. Batman belongs the praise
of mingling humanity with severity: of perceiving human affections in the creatures he was
commissioned to resist. His mission cannot be compared with that of his successor, but he certainly
began in the midst of conflict and bloodshed, to try the softer influences of conciliation
and charity. He received a party into his house, endeavoured to win their regard; fed, clothed,
and soothed them; and when some of them disappointed his hopes, by throwing off their garments
and retiring into the bush, he still persevered in attempting their reclamation.

But if the authorised system was attended with a sad sacrifice of native life, no one will
question the atrocities committed by commandoes, first formed by stock-keepers, and some settlers,
under the influence of anger, and then continued from habit. The smoke of a fire was the signal
for a black hunt. The sportsmen having taken up their positions, perhaps on a precipitous hill,
would first discharge their guns, then rush towards the fires, and sweep away the whole party.
The wounded were brained; the infant cast into the flames; the musket was driven into the quivering
flesh; and the social fire, around which the natives gathered to slumber, became, before morning,
their funeral pile.[14]

A detail of such facts, is in the hand of the writer, the recital of which would disgrace,
without improving mankind; and it is rather in deference to a general principle than personal
considerations, that the crimes of amateur assassins are left to oblivion.[15]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 12: "Unless the blacks are exterminated, or removed, conciliation is in vain. Shall
the sons of a country give way before the aborigines, after having repulsed the arms of France?
They are now shot, with as little remorse as so many crows!!"--Col. Advocate, 1828.]

[Footnote 13: A party, under Major Grey, went out in pursuit: overtook a few blacks; one was
seized; but he was so smeared with grease, that he slipped through the hands of his captors.
A paper of the day recommends, that the arms of the pursuer be thrust under the arms of the
black; and, the hands being raised, to be firmly clasped over the back of the fugitive's neck--an
expedient, that reminds us of the salt specific for catching birds, with which most children
have been delighted and disappointed.]

SECTION V.

However just these representations of individual conduct, and with whatever severity the measures
of government bore upon the aborigines, that unhappy people afforded ample reason for apprehension,
and even abhorrence. Their crimes were fearful, and the effect of their outrage on the colonial
mind can only be imagined. The fierce robbers, of European origin, who had infested the land,
were not half so terrible: these were at least restrained by early associations and national
sympathies; often by conscience, and even by each other. But the natives now united the antipathy
of a national foe, and the rapacity of a banditti, with the spite of individual revenge: they
were at once a people in arms, and a distributed band of assassins.

The correspondence between the local and imperial authorities exhibits the feelings of the
Governor, and his full consciousness, that however necessary his proceedings might seem on
the spot, surveyed from the distance, they would wear the aspect of cruelty. In 1828, he apprised
Lord Goderich, that the proposal to remove the natives from the island, had not met his concurrence;
and that the commissioners for lands had pointed out the north-east coast as adapted to their
wants, well sheltered and warm, abounding with game, accessible by water, and easy to guard.
It was stated by Colonel Arthur that harsh measures were demanded by the colonists; but that
he could not dismiss from his recollection, that the whites were the aggressors, and that every
plan should be tried before treating the natives as accredited enemies. Three months after,
he forwarded another communication, which referred to the murders recently committed, and justified
the proclamation which he had issued for their expulsion. So exasperated were the settlers,
that the safety of the blacks themselves seemed to demand this precaution. He had, however,
found it impossible to assign one district, owing to the animosities of the tribes against
each other, and therefore he resolved to expel them to the remoter portions of their several
territories. In two other communications of the same year, the Governor reported the temporary
retirement of the natives, in search of marine subsistence, and their return from their winter
quarters in the November following, when their animosity had not abated: a dark catalogue of
murders, including every age, condition, and sex, attested their subtlety and sanguinary spirit.
He still declared that no means were neglected to conciliate and reclaim them, consistent with
the interests of the colony at large; but their indiscriminate attacks were equally directed
against their benefactors and their enemies. Communication had become difficult, a risk of
life, and almost impossible.

These statements are, unhappily, sustained by ample proof. It would be a waste of time even
to condense, in the most succinct relation, all the incidents that occurred. Narrative is tedious
by the monotony of detail, and the events themselves were recorded by those who witnessed them,
with ominous brevity. Such crimes were of daily occurrence; perhaps sometimes multiplied by
rumour, but often unheard of and unrecorded. The perils of the stockmen were constant: many
of them were repeatedly wounded; and one, named Cubit, was nine times speared, and yet survived.
Death assumed new forms daily: the poet of the Iliad did not describe more numerous varieties,
in the slaughter of his heroes.

The shepherd went from home in the morning, attended by his dog, and armed with a gun, now
unavailing for his defence: he never returned. Had he escaped to the bush? Such a step was
improbable. His employers are soon informed that the blacks have been near; that the sheep
have been wounded, or beaten to death. The search now becomes diligent: at length, the melancholy
reality is clear; they find a mutilated form, which still preserves sufficient proof that the
lost shepherd lies there. The sad catastrophe excites the compassion of the master; but it
provokes the fellow servants to rage, and they devote themselves to the destruction of the
murderous race.

The little child strays outside the cottage of her parent--fresh as the morning, and warmed
with the hilarity of young life: a shriek is heard to succeed quickly the loud laugh of pleasure.
The mother rushes forward; sees a black boy fleeing in the distance, and then beholds the victim
of his malice: she draws forth the spear, and her child is dead.

The settler, now grown rich by his flocks and tillage, looks forward to the enjoyment of his
opulence in domestic happiness. The companion of his early labors and privations forms the
chief object in the picture; but while he was dreaming of future bliss, the envious eye of
a savage, which had recognised in that prosperous homestead a station of his fathers, had glanced
over and blighted all.

Those who were compelled to travel from home, left their families the prey to inexpressible
anxiety. Every moment of delay awakened new forebodings. Often would the settler see his wife
and children, on some prominent spot, the subjects of fears which required no interpreter,
shading the eyes in the attitude of earnest attention; and when they caught the first glimpse
of his approach, the rushing together, and marks of gratulation, indicated the gladness of
watchers, whose painful task is done. To appear in safety, was a new though daily deliverance.

But if such were the fears at home, the traveller himself was not free from perturbation. He
would neglect the common dangers of a rocky descent, and "sidling" way, to guard against perils
far more dreaded: he would often pause, to listen; the moving of the leaf, would terrify him.
He would hear a rush--it was but the cattle: he would gaze steadfastly at some black substance
far off, until convinced that it was the stock of a tree; then reproaching his fears, he would
gallop on rapidly--then moving round some overhanging rock, he would see savage faces and poised
spears! Retreat is now impossible: he spurs his horse, which seems almost to be conscious of
danger, and perhaps reaches his home exhausted with fatigue and dread; happy, however, to have
been once more preserved.

Nor is it possible to describe the emotions which were wrought up, by the consciousness that
a feeble woman and helpless children were exposed to the clubs and spears of the savage. Men
know, when they pass their threshold, that the ties of life are uncertain, and that desolation
may blast whatever they leave tranquil and beloved; but there was an intense realisation of
this hazard, in those parts of the colony where protection was least accessible.

Death, by the hands of a savage, is indeed invested with the darkest terrors: it was rarely
instantaneous--it was often the effect of protracted torment, and of repeated blows: often,
after a long pursuit, in which hope might occasionally gleam for a moment, to render death
to the exhausted fugitive more distinct and terrible; or, perhaps, at once wounded mortally
and prostrate, when the rush of early affections and long forgotten truth and brief supplication
would come with that swoon, by which nature sometimes ushers in the fatal moment; the dying
man would be roused by infernal shouts, and there would swim before him brandished clubs, and
horrid visages distorted with demoniac rage. Such were the recollections of some who recovered;
and such, we may be assured, were the emotions of many that died.

Comparatively, the natives did not frequently injure women and children; partly, perhaps, that
they were less exposed, and partly from natural compassion. Thus, when the house of Clarke
was destroyed by the Big River tribe, and its owner perished in the flames, the woman with
him escaped with her clothes ignited--ran to the savages, and fell down upon her knees, imploring
their pity. One of their number extinguished the flames, and bade her be gone. It may be doubted,
if this instance of compassion always found a parallel in the conduct of the white. About the
same time, a wretch boasted to Mr. O'Connor, that he had thrown a native woman on the fire,
and burnt her to death. The equity of Providence seems vindicated by the fact, that he perished
by the spears of the race, who watched him continually, until he fell into their power.

Long after the pacific mission of Robinson, it was found necessary to restrain the wanderings
of the women, to prevent their sacrifice to white vengeance. But, on the part of the natives,
there were not wanting fearful examples of implacable and treacherous violence. Such was the
murder of Mrs. Gough and her children. In 1828, about twenty men, unattended by their families,
had re-appeared in the centre of the island, and approached the neighbourhood of Oatlands:
they attacked the cottage of one Moor, as a feint, and thus drew off the husband of the unfortunate
woman, to the assistance of his neighbour. On returning, he met his daughter, with the sad
intelligence, that children and wife were murdered, and that she only had escaped. He found
the mother leaning against a fence, covered with blood: "Dear Gough," she said, "it is all
over with me; the blacks have killed me!" He endeavoured to staunch her wounds; then hastened
to his children, and found them, not dead, but dying. The blacks had inflicted reiterated blows,
and answered entreaties with threats of murder. Mrs. Gough was shortly afterwards laid beside
her children. The attack was more fierce, and yet deliberate, than common: but not long before,
some stockmen at the Lakes requested two women to ascend the trees: while there, they shot
them. It is necessary to add, that the women sometimes approached the huts, as spies, or such
actions would be incredible.

The government and the press complained repeatedly, that no regular resistance was offered
to the depredators; that the settlers did not instantly pursue, and, by combined efforts, intimidate
or destroy them. It was said, that they easily forgot the danger, so soon as the blacks had
withdrawn, and abated even the ordinary vigilance, which such formidable enemies might inspire.
Thus, the slaughter of a shepherd had become too frequent to produce much sensation, and was
set down as a common risk of colonial life. When they heard that a servant was speared, they
would exclaim, "Ah! is he killed? poor fellow!"--and having brought in a verdict of wilful
murder, they left him to the forgetfulness of the grave.

It was said, that as the passenger approached the towns, he found the anxiety of the people
diminished, and their feeling revolutionised. In the interior, the blacks were spoken of with
intense fear, and detestation: in the capital, even their depredations were questioned, and
the subjects of conversation, were rather their sufferings than their crimes.

Governor Arthur strongly censured the negligence of farmers; but this was rather to arouse
them, than to decide finally the fact, or culpability of their inaction. In truth, the pursuit
of a party of aborigines, was a very hopeless affair: it required a minute preparation; and
to a well fleshed, and not perhaps youthful yeoman, was attended with vast fatigue, and almost
certain failure. An organised enemy may be found: not so, naked and scattered blacks, undistinguishable
from the trees of the wood; who could crouch in a gulley--creep almost as rapidly as a dog.
The appearance of apathy, in reality resulted from the uselessness or danger of action; nor
can it be a matter of surprise, that men expelled from their minds an evil merely possible,
which they hoped to escape, and which no forethought would avoid. Whether these imputations
were just, or not, they were revived in various forms, by the Governor's private and public
addresses. They constitute a large portion of his correspondence with the Home Government;
but they drew forth from the Secretary of State what, perhaps, was chiefly desired--an approbation
of his measures of protection; for, however apathetic individuals, it was admitted, that the
repression of outrage, from whatever cause, and at whatever cost, was an obligation on government.
There were, nevertheless, several instances of courageous defence: large numbers were successfully
resisted by a single musket; and it was stated by Governor Arthur, that two armed men would
strike a whole mob with panic--a contempt of their valour, which was often provoked by the
subtlety of their escape. Such is commonly the case: savages, even when courageous, are unwilling
to face the deadly weapon of the white man. They, however, lost much of their alarm; and, at
length, would pause for the report, and rush on with shouts of defiance, when the English had
discharged their guns.

The most courageous instances of defence, were furnished by females: they were sometimes surprised
by a visit, when escape was hopeless, and relief unattainable. Mrs. Maclanachan maintained
a post, purely by her resolution. Mrs. Dalrymple Brigge, a half-caste woman, was rewarded with
twenty acres of land, for her heroism. She drew inside her house her wounded child, barricaded
her door, and fired through a crevice. The blacks attempted, first to pull down her cottage,
and then to destroy it by fire. The conflict lasted more than an hour, when relief came. Another:
Mrs. Connel defended her house with the musket; a little child, of four years, bringing one
to her as she fired off another: she was within a few days of her confinement. The fortitude
displayed, on these occasions, was very justly admired: we cannot, however, but be sensible,
that few possessed either the physical strength, or the knowledge of arms, equal to a task so hard.

In this colony, 1830 will be ever memorable, as the year of the Black War--that campaign, which
formed the first military lesson given to the colonists. In the ferment of the public mind,
innumerable plans were propounded for their capture: some merit remembrance from their oddity,
and some for their kindness. It was suggested, that those natives in custody should be driven
forward, secured by a tether, and thus compelled to guide the pursuit. It was also proposed,
that depôts of flour, sugar, and other tempting articles of food should be placed in the tracks,
and when natives were engaged in seizing the prize, the Philistines would be upon them. A third
plan recommended, that four or five persons should be placed in the vicinity of huts, to be
erected for the purpose: they were to stand outside, and allure the natives; and when seen
by them, to feign alarm, and run. The natives, it was expected, would make for the seemingly
abandoned dwellings, to be surprised by the English, lying in ambush. Their dogs often gave
them notice of approach: a scheme was propounded, to turn this advantage against them. The
English were to be furnished with two sets of dogs: one leash, swift and fierce, to pursue
the dogs of the natives; but as both would soon vanish from the sight of the pursuers, the
second species were to be retained, to scent their course. Thus, the native would run first,--his
dogs after him; then would come the large dogs of the English--then their little dogs; and,
finally, the captors! An old mariner, who had witnessed the effect of music in taming savage
tribes, proposed to try the persuasion of sweet sounds. He was not aware, that the expedient
had been in vain tested under happier auspices; even had it been possible for a military band
to career along with the requisite speed. The musician of the Recherche carried his instrument
on shore, and played his sweetest melodies: the natives took no notice. Unwilling to doubt
the efficacy of his art, on his next visit he used sharper tones and quicker measures: the
aborigines put their fingers to their ears, and the Frenchman dropped his fiddle in despair.

It will be proper briefly to notice the state of the public mind at the moment. The natives
were now a mere handful: an irregular contest of several years duration, now and then slackened,
was ever adding some new victim to the slain. The constables occasionally fell in with the
temporary huts, which told the mournful tale of rapid depopulation. In tracks, where thirty
or forty huts had, in former years, indicated a considerable clan, four or five only were reared;
but while the natives diminished, they seemed to increase their activity, moving to various
places with almost incredible swiftness. It is said, that they would travel fifty miles in
a day. Their superior knowledge of the country enabled them to reach stations more remote in
appearance than reality. A colonist, of the present time, by better acquaintance with the road,
can pass in a few hours to places, once several days journey distant. Such rapid progress may
perhaps be doubted, but it was sufficient to give them the appearance of ubiquity; and since
they now were no longer casual but habitual robbers, the havoc and alarm they created had rather
augmented, as their numbers declined. The colony, then prosperous in its general affairs, was
deeply depressed by their continued outrages: shepherds would no longer tend their flocks,
unless accompanied by armed companions. On the slightest signal of the approaching foe, they
would flee with precipitation: ten times a day the quiet of domestic life would be broken by
the fears, feigned or real, of the workmen. If they idled on the road, it was the blacks that
retarded them: if they lost provisions, the hut had been robbed by the blacks. Often, too,
these vexations were tinged with the ludicrous: the rumour would reach the township that an
unfortunate had been speared, who, when more closely examined, was found dead drunk. Some imaginative
settler would return, with the sure information that the blacks were lurking in the woods:
the cautious whites, well armed and skilfully disposed, would march round the hiding place,
and stealthily approach a stump of more than usual likeness to animated nature.

An officer, newly arrived, when the depredations were most alarming and frequent, looked from
the window of his cottage, in the twilight, and discerned many blacks crouching among the stubble
of a corn field lately reaped. He hastened and ordered out his men: they cautiously crept round
the inclosure, and were gratified as they drew nigh to discover that the enemy had not moved.
Another small party of soldiers observed a body of fifty or sixty, on the borders of a creek,
flowing into Oyster Bay: as they were approached by the British, they made for a point of land.
It was, apparently, a certain capture: the soldiers and constables rushed on, when the foe
took the water. In these adversaries the colonist will recognise the black stumps, left by
imperfect farming, and the black swans which adorn our waters. Notice was brought, that some
one in the far interior was killed: the coroner's jury was summoned; the verdict was, of necessity,
"not yet dead."[16]

The disquietude occasioned by an enemy, so insignificant; the constant vigilance imposed, and
the not infrequent heavy calamities inflicted, are events justly exhibited by the Aborigines'
Committee, as a lesson to mankind. The long oppression of a race, not prone to violence, was
now productive of its fruit, and exacted from the colonists a fearful retribution.

The most alarming movement of the natives was, the systematic destruction of premises by fire.
This was revenge within their reach, at any hour; and its previous infrequency is a matter
of astonishment. In three months, the huts of Messrs. Howel, Sherwin, and Clarke, had been
destroyed. The property of Mr. Sherwin, lying between hills, was easily watched, and spies
were posted on the heights. The mode of firing the premises was deliberate: they kindled the
flames at twenty yards apart, so that the whole was simultaneously burned; this done, they
went off, shouting and crying out to the English to go away. The extent of the mischief was
not so alarming as its forebodings. That element, which nature has placed at man's disposal,
and can be turned, by a moment's effort to the destruction of a fortune, might long have proved
an effectual scourge, and made colonisation hopeless. The retention of properties, as well
as the security of dependents, required decided and unanimous measures.

No part of Governor Arthur's character conciliates greater esteem, than his promptitude to
encourage humanity in the whites, and to win the confidence of the natives. At the commencement
of this year, he offered a liberal reward to any one who should open a pacific communication,
or if a convict free pardon. He promised five pounds for every adult, and two pounds for every
child, taken alive. He entreated the colonists to enjoin the utmost tenderness on their servants,
and invariably to spare the women and children. These merciful intentions were but little successful:
the rewards were rarely claimed. But no effort, in a right direction, is ever lost: the conduct
of John Benfield, a convict, was distinguished for intrepidity and coolness in a capture, and
Colonel Arthur bestowed warm praise. Observing a fire, at a short distance, he approached three
aborigines, to whom he offered bread: one of them promised to accompany him, if he would put
aside his gun; this risk he incurred. He led the black to his hut, and gave him food and blankets
for his companions; and soon succeeded in completely conciliating them all. They joined him
in hunting the opossum: thus he drew them on to the military party stationed at Captain Moriarty's.
This man certainly deserved the reward he obtained, and the government notice of an action
so courageous and humane, must have mitigated the fierce spirit of his class.

The orders and notices issued by the Governor during this year, represent the powerful agitation
of the public mind, and from which he himself was by no means free. Sometimes, the hope of
reconciliation seemed strong; thus, August 19th, he states that Captain Welch and Mr. G. A.
Robinson had obtained a friendly parley with a hostile tribe. It was ordered, that no attempt
should be made to capture or restrain such aborigines as might approach the settlement; but
that, after supplying them with food, they should be suffered to depart.

He found it necessary to explain the conditions on which rewards were offered for capture,
which had been abused, by the violent detention of inoffensive natives: those who, in attempting
to arrest them, were guilty of wanton mischief, were threatened with the penalties of the law.
These orders were followed by outrages, which threw doubt on the propriety of distinctions:
the ally of to-day, was the robber of yesterday, and the assassin of the morrow. The natives
of the south-west districts of the colony, and of the islands, were still exempted from proscription;
but an explanatory notice, authorised the settlers, by whatever necessary means, to anticipate,
or repel, the barbarous attacks, now renewed with terrible frequency and atrocity.

These public instructions indicate the alternate feelings which prevailed: they were natural
to men who, reflecting on the origin of the warfare, felt that measures, now indispensable,
were not wholly guiltless.

                   *     *     *     *     *

     OFFICIAL LIST OF ATROCITIES COMMITTED BY THE NATIVES.

     1830.--January 1. William Smith, in the employ of ---- Triffet,
     jun., killed near the river Ouse. Piper's hut, at Bark Hut Plains,
     broken open and plundered of a musket, blankets, sugar, &c. Captain
     Clark's hut, at Bark Hut Plains, robbed, and his house entered by
     the natives.

     February 1st. Mr. Brodie's hut, near the Clyde, was attacked while
     he was in it; he was speared in several parts of his body, but not
     mortally; they stole blankets, tea, sugar, &c. 9th. Mr. Mazetti's
     hut robbed; Lawrence Dering, servant to Mr. Bell, killed. 11th. Mr.
     Bell's house and servants attacked on Great Jordan Lagoon; the
     natives kept at bay from the house, but one man received a spear
     through the thigh. Mr. Hopley murdered about a mile from Mr.
     Betts'; James M'Carthy desperately wounded. 12th. Mr. Howell's
     dwelling hut burned. Mrs. Howell and her children narrowly escaping
     the flames. Twenty of Mr. Espie's sheep killed and maimed. Mr.
     Thomson's hut attacked by forty or fifty. Mr. Paterson's shepherd
     pursued by the natives. 17th. John Bluchaby and Philip Norboy
     killed at Dysart parish, Oatlands, at noon day. Lawrence Murray,
     servant to Mr. Bell, killed. A child killed at Bagdad, near the
     road side. 20th. Mr. M'Rae's house, near Bothwell, plundered of
     flour, and within a mile of the military station, at Bothwell. Mr.
     Sherwin's house burned to the ground, with the greater part of his
     property; his servants' hut and fences also consumed. The Weazle
     Plains Hut burned down; a black man wounded, in the act of setting
     fire to it. 22nd. Captain Clark's barn and corn stacks consumed,
     containing 1,200 bushels of grain.

     March 2nd. A hut, near Captain Clark's, fired. A hut, at Davis'
     Marsh, plundered. 9th. A mob of natives appeared at Captain Smith's
     hut, at his run; a part of them killed 100 of his sheep. 10th.
     Piper's hut fired, and partly destroyed, 11th. Captain Wood's hut,
     at Poole's Marsh, robbed. Mr. Jones' hut, Side Line Marsh,
     threatened. Mr. Bisdee's hut attacked; also Mr. Thomson's stock
     hut, and Mr. Brodribb's, at the Black Marsh. Mr. Denholme's hut, at
     the same place, attacked, and his servant speared. 13th. M'Gennis'
     hut, Richmond district, plundered of muskets, powder, and ball, and
     every thing of value in the house. 15th. A hut, near the mouth of
     the Carlton River, attacked, a man and woman dangerously wounded;
     four spear wounds, and a cut on the head, supposed mortal. Another
     woman speared through the arm. 19th. About forty natives attacked
     the house of Mr. Brodribb, Black Marsh: they were divided into
     small parties, and made their attacks simultaneously: one man
     speared. On their being driven back, they proceeded to the hut of
     Mr. Thomson, which they robbed of every thing in it. On the same
     day, a man was speared in bed, at E. Danoven's, Black Marsh.

     April 1st. John Rayner speared in several places, and dreadfully
     beaten by natives, at Spring Bay.

     May 18th. Mr. Lord's hut, at Eastern Marshes, attacked; of two men
     in it, one was dangerously speared, and the other dreadfully
     beaten. The natives then plundered the hut, and retired.

     June 1st. Mr. Sherwin's hut, Weazel Plains, plundered by the
     natives. 15th. The aborigines plundered the Den hut on the Lake
     River, of every thing in it, and murdered Mary Daniels, and her two
     infants, in cold blood.

     August 7th. S. Stockman's hut, Green Pounds, plundered by natives.
     9th. The death of Mr. Sharland (surveyor), and his men robbed of
     muskets, powder, and shot, by the natives; on the same day, government
     hut, between Bothwell and Blue-hill, robbed by natives, as well as the
     houses of Mr. Wood and Mr. Pitcairn. A man servant of Mr. Barrs,
     wounded. About forty natives met by Mr. Howell's party: a woman
     wounded. 23rd. The huts of J. Connell and Mr. Robertson attacked; the
     latter plundered. Mr. Sutherland's shepherds attacked, and their arms
     taken; one of them speared: arms taken from Mr. Taylor's hut. 24th.
     James Hooper killed, and his hut plundered of everything in it. The
     huts of Lieutenant Bell and Watts attacked by natives, who were
     repulsed from both.

     September 8th. Captain Clark's shepherd attacked, but escaped.
     13th. One man killed, and one man wounded, by the natives, on the
     banks of the Tamar. 14th. A man, employed by government at the lime
     kilns, near Bothwell, chased by natives, but escaped. 18th. A
     private, of the 63rd regiment, killed by natives: two sawyers
     speared, one of whom died of his wounds. 27th. Francis Broken
     speared and killed. 28th. Three men, at Major Grey's, wounded by
     natives, and one dangerously wounded with stones. 30th. Mr. G.
     Scott's house attacked by a mob of natives; they speared one man,
     and killed another--the body of whom they threw into the river.
     They ransacked the house of every thing they could find, and even
     went up stairs, and broke the doors open--a proceeding to which
     they had never before resorted. They took away blankets, shirts,
     sheets, knives, 600 or 700 lbs. of flour (which they tied up), half
     a basket of tobacco, 100 lbs. of sugar, a bag of tea, and a
     considerable quantity of slop clothing: so great ingenuity was
     displayed in the attack, that for some time it was supposed that
     Europeans had conducted it. On the same day, the natives plundered
     a hut, opposite to Mr. Scott's, of all the tea, sugar, flour, and
     bedding, that were in it.

     October 16th. The settlement at Sorell attacked by natives: one
     severely wounded; four houses plundered of blankets, flour, tea and
     sugar, and clothes of every description. 18th. Captain Stewart's
     shepherd wounded by spears, and Mr. Guildas, a settler, killed by
     two spear wounds. 19th, Natives showed themselves on the farms of
     Messrs. Gatehouse and Gordon, and attacked the house of Mr. Gough,
     whom they wounded severely.

     November 16th. Two huts robbed on the Ouse. 18th. Captain Wight's
     shepherd killed by natives; dreadfully mangled twenty-seven sheep.
     A hut on the South Esk attacked by natives: every thing portable
     sent off.

     February 3rd, 1831. The natives attacked Mr. Bursby's house, on the
     Tamar; speared Mr. Wallace in several parts of the body, and
     inflicted several severe and dangerous wounds on his head: they
     likewise wounded a child. The hut of Allright attacked by them;
     plundered of every thing it had in it. The hut of Mr. Sutherland,
     Nork Esk, robbed: three horses speared, three others wounded. A
     woman, named M'Haskell, killed at Retreat, near Westbury: house
     robbed of 300 lbs. of flour, knives and forks, blankets, chest of
     tea, 100 lbs. of sugar, tobacco, two casks of butter, three
     muskets, and powder. 7th. Stewart's house attacked by natives, who
     were beaten off.

     March 8th. Two sawyers attacked by natives; severely wounded. Two
     huts, near New Norfolk, plundered. 12th. Mrs. Cunningham's hut, at
     East Arm, robbed by natives: she and the child wounded, very
     dangerously. 21st. Mr. Lawrence's servant murdered, and three men
     dangerously wounded by the natives, on Norfolk Plains.

     April 5th. J. Ralton speared through the body, whilst at work
     splitting wood. 6th. N. Fitzgerald speared twice through the body,
     whilst sitting reading at the door of his cottage; the house
     plundered by the natives of guns, blankets, and other things. 7th.
     The same house again attacked.

     May 10th. Hut on Patrick's Plains, containing government stores,
     burnt to the ground, by natives. Mr. Kemp's establishment, at Lake
     Sorell, attacked by a considerable mob of natives: the fire arms
     carried away, buildings totally consumed by fire; two men murdered,
     and one wounded.

      June 6th. Several huts attacked, near Hunter's Hill; J. Triffits
     speared. Mr. Baretti's hut robbed, likewise Mrs. Bell's, of every
     thing in it, and the wife of N. Long murdered. Mr. Clark's hut
     plundered.

     September 5th. Thomas Smith, hut-keeper, at Tapsly, murdered: hut
     plundered. John Hignston speared, and hut robbed; four sawyers'
     huts robbed. 7th. B. B. Thomas, Esq., and his overseer, Mr. Parker,
     murdered near Port Sorell, by a mob of natives, whilst, actuated by
     the most humane views, they were endeavouring to carry the
     conciliatory measures of government into effect. Mr. Thomas had
     received ten spear wounds, and Mr. Parker eleven. Stocker's hut
     desperately attacked; a child wounded; a man, named Cubit, speared.
     22nd. Mr. Dawson's hut, on Brushy Plains, attacked, and his servant
     severely beaten with waddies. 23rd. Mr. Dawson's servant, Hughes,
     severely beaten by natives, nearly losing his life.

     October 3rd. The natives, having possession of fire-arms, attacked
     and robbed the premises of constable Bird, and plundered the house
     of Mr. Amos, jun.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 14: In the western districts, the stockmen were usually mounted. When they saw the
natives, these armed murderers galloped after them, and delivered their fire without danger
to themselves.

An estate is called "Quambys:" the name is a cry of distress and entreaty, and signifies, spare
me!. It was uttered by a black, who was found there, when imploring compassion; as the supplication
is remembered, perhaps not then in vain: but mercy was rarely shown. A volunteer party discovered
a tribe in a valley, surrounded by steep mountains; from the heights they poured down a volley
of musketry, and then heaped the slain on the ashes of their fires. Another party overtook
a tribe who had displayed a hostile spirit: they were on the banks of a lagoon, and all around
were plains; escape was hopeless. They rushed into the water; as their heads rose above the
surface, they were shot. These are specimens which rest on authority not to be disputed.

The slaughter of thirty aborigines, in 1838, at a remote station in New Holland, instanced
the cool deliberation with which they were too often sacrificed. The deed was planned several
days before, and the leisure of the sabbath was employed for its perpetration. The seven murderers
had been all prisoners of the crown: a subscription was made for their defence; but in spite
of strong sympathy in their behalf, they were sentenced to death, and ultimately executed.
There had been no provocation: being on horseback, they surrounded the natives, who were reposing
beside their evening fires. These ran to the hut of one of the assassins, with whom they had
lived on terms of amity. There they were bound, and, amidst their groans, cries, and tears--men,
and women with children at the breast--they were led off to a spot selected for the immolation.
Great pains were taken to conceal the crime; but through a fall of rain the day preceding,
their tracks were visible, and birds of prey attracted attention to the slaughter! The strongest
suspicion existed, that the murderers were the miserable agents of persons still more guilty.]

[Footnote 15: The Aborigines' Committee observed, "that an opinion was gaining ground in the
colony, that small parties should be formed by the settlers, for the extirpation of the blacks;
an idea, which they contemplated with horror." It was more than an opinion--it was a terrible
reality.]

[Footnote 16: Hobart Town Courier.]

SECTION VI.

Efforts of conciliation, were made through the medium of three women, captured by the police;
and who, after being treated with kindness, were permitted to return to their tribe, and to
invite their submission. One of these was seen in the journey, and slain, in error! After the
absence of a few weeks, the survivors prevailed on the chief, and nine other men of the tribe,
to accompany them to the residence of Mr. Batman: this gentleman, and his family, assiduously
cultivated their good will, being one of the few who entertained a strong confidence in the
power of kindness; notwithstanding, after remaining nine days, they eloped, it is said laden
with plunder--displaying, in their progress, unmitigated hostility. Two natives, who delivered
themselves up to a shepherd, and were lodged in the penitentiary at Launceston, after being
supplied with abundance of food and clothing, within a month effected their escape, and were
traced by their outrages. The celebrated chief, Eumarrah, captured by Robertson, after two
years detention, when his artless manner and apparent reconciliation to his lot, threw his
keepers off their guard, contrived to abscond. Justice is, however, due to the reputation of
a savage. Eumarrah, afterwards complained, that when employed on the LINE, he was beaten by
a constable: Jemmy, who escaped at the same time, had been chained to a bench all night, by
a similar functionary. The newspapers of the day complain, that in gaol food sufficient for
their appetites had not been always supplied them. The women were declining in health, when
allowed their liberty. This last, was the great cause of their restlessness; they felt the
oppression of civilisation; they were weary of clothing; the skin was irritated. The instinct
which prompts a bird to seek some way of exit, also moves a savage: it was not so much indifference
to kindness, as the passion for roaming--the habit of the race. Nor were they managed always
with prudence: they were left to the mischievous influence of low white men, who delighted
to terrify, even when they did not positively injure them. It was not until thirty had escaped,
nearly equal to the whole number taken, that it was discovered, that to retain them, even their
prejudices required tenderness, and that they were deeply sensible of contempt.

These retreats tended to extinguish the hopes cherished by the friends of the natives, and
rooted the conviction more firmly in the colonial mind, that all efforts to tame them were
unavailing. All the plans laid down for their expulsion, had been tried, and had proved to
be impracticable. They still recurred to their usual haunts, and made up for their diminished
numbers by their improved method, cunning, and audacity. Having committed depredations, they
retired, with their plunder, to the districts reserved for their occupation, and whither it
was unlawful to follow them, except for sworn offences. The Governor determined to try a movement,
en masse, and by the united force of the entire population, to drive the Austral tribes within
Tasman's Peninsula--a territory, joined to the main land by a neck, about one quarter of a
mile in breadth. The success of this plan could never have been considered very promising.
The Governor expressed his doubt respecting the result, while it was in progress; and there
is no reason to question that, in putting it to the test, he was moved by the earnest entreaties
of the colonists, and a conviction that nothing should be left untried, to preserve the people
committed to his charge.

On the 7th September, 1830, the intention of the Governor was officially announced. Referring
to the outrages of the natives, he asserted that their expulsion was impossible, but by a simultaneous
effort. He called on every settler, whether residing in the town or country, to place himself
under the direction of a magistrate, whoever he might prefer; that the whole military and police
strength, combined with such assistance, might capture the hostile tribes, or permanently expel
them. The solemnity of the engagement, no less than the preservation of the lives and property
of the whole community, would require a serious and resolute co-operation. On former occasions,
he observed such campaigns had been greatly perverted, and transformed into amusement and recreation.
The Governor gave no promise of recompense, and insisted that the effort, however meritorious,
was simply the duty of all; but with his accustomed tact, he chose this moment to reward, with
large grants of land, those persons already distinguished for enterprise and success, and to
distribute indulgences to prisoners who had been actively employed in the service. Mr. Batman,
who had devoted twelve months to the pursuit of the blacks, obtained 2,000 acres of land. Mr.
Howel, of the Clyde, whose losses had been great, but who was represented as displaying an
untiring spirit of humanity, was consoled with 1,000 acres. The aboriginal Sydney guides, and
Black Bill, a Tasmanian, received each 100 acres.

The volunteer parties from Hobart Town, were to join the force at New Norfolk, the Clyde, or
Richmond: those from Launceston, were to patrol the westward and Norfolk Plains, the west bank
of the Tamar, or the country extending from Ben Lomond to George Town. Enterprising young men,
inured to the bush, were requested to attach themselves to the small military parties at the
out stations, and, under military officers, to scour the northern country.

Men, holding tickets-of-leave, were required to enrol under the magistrate of their district,
and settlers were enjoined to equip and detach whatever servants they could spare, reserving
only sufficient strength for the protection of their families. The inhabitants of Hobart Town,
in public meeting assembled, tendered their service to the government, for the furtherance
of the object. The peace-loving Joseph Hone, Esq., was chairman of this warlike meeting: most
of the leading speakers belonged to the profession of the gown. Mr. Kemp, one of the elder
colonists, once an officer of the 102nd regiment, who had seen the process of extermination
throughout, declared that the English were chiefly the agressors. Dr. Turnbull contrasted the
effects of a vigorous resistance by government and the conflict of individuals: united effort
might be followed by bloodshed, but would tend to repress the habits of violence, and, at least,
save a remnant from destruction. A tribe, one hundred and sixty strong four years before, that
frequented the Elizabeth River, was reduced to sixty by daily skirmishes with the stock-keepers.
A question, however, arose, whether it were lawful to shoot aborigines refusing to surrender
on challenge. Against this construction of law, Mr. Gellibrand earnestly protested; and maintained,
in warm terms, their claims to sympathy and compassion--himself, alas! destined to die by the
hands of the race. It seemed, however, generally understood, that capture should be attempted
by the most merciful methods, but accomplished at all events. Colonisation by the French, was
exhibited by Mr. Hackett, the distiller, in contrast with English; but Dr. Ross rose in reply,
and stated that there was a rock which bore the name of The Leap, from which the last sixty
natives of Grenada were precipitated. Mr. R. L. Murray treated the prevailing notion of danger
with derision: three women, he said, would put a whole tribe to flight; but Mr. Home reminded
the meeting, that the grass had not yet covered the graves of a mother and her children, recently
slain. Thus, like the warriors of the heroic age, they debated before they armed; but it is
difficult to reconcile the civic temper with military subordination: the committee nominated
by the meeting to enrol the town guard, suggested that volunteers should be allowed to choose
each their own company, as well as their own officers. One party of twenty-four, required the
choice of their post, and the right to act as an independent division.

On the 22nd September, the plan of the campaign was minutely described in a government order,
and operations were fixed for the 7th of October. Its main features may be briefly stated:--The
Oyster Bay and Big River tribes, as the most sanguinary, were first marked out for pursuit.
They were to be driven within the county of Buckingham; the utmost care being employed to prevent
escape through the lines, while chasing them to Tasman's Peninsula.

A chain of posts was occupied, under Captain Welman, from St. Patrick's Head on the east coast;
including the source of St. Paul's River, and stretching to Campbell Town. A second chain,
under Major Douglas, extending from Campbell Town, passed south of the Macquarie, to its junction
with the Lake River. Both divisions, marching in a southerly direction, formed a line from
Oyster Bay tier to Lackey's Mills. During these manoeuvres, a party were sent to examine the
tier, extending from Swan River to Spring Bay; carefully, however, concealing the movement
from the natives, lest they should be deterred from passing the subjacent isthmus. Other parties
were employed, under Captain Wentworth, to force the aborigines from the neighbourhood of the
lakes in the west, towards the same centre, advancing due east to the Jordan. The lines being
compressed and thickened, and joined by the settlers on their march, were then moved forward,
followed by scouring parties, to guard against their escape, should the natives cross the line.
Fires were kept burning to direct the troops, who were expected to march in unbroken order.

Captain Donaldson, who directed the operations in the north of the island, swept over the vast
extent of country from Norfolk Plains to the Ouse--from Sorell Lake to Lake Echo. There he
remained, closing the avenues of escape, while Douglass and Wentworth advanced to their last
position: he then joined the main body. Twenty-two parties, under Major Douglas, and fifteen
under Captain Wentworth, were then sent within the lines, to catch the natives, or drive them
toward Tasman's Peninsula.

The distribution of provisions to this force, was entrusted to Messrs. Scott, Wedge, and Sharland,
surveyors. The rations were delivered to the leader of each party weekly, and consisted of
sugar, tea, flour, and meat, in considerable proportions. The principle depôt was at Oatlands:
where 1,000 muskets were provided, 30,000 rounds blank cartridges, 300 pairs of handcuffs,
and whatever might contribute to the success of the assailants. Many thousands of rations were
stored, and the settlers saw, with pleasure, their produce rise in the neighbourhood of this
formidable band, to twice its recent value. £2,000 was paid to one merchant for the tobacco.
The officers, to avoid its destruction, inevitable on so long a march, mostly threw off their
military clothing, and assumed an uniform of Maria Island cloth, thus reserving their full
dress to celebrate the coming triumph. The enthusiasm was universal: a blacksmith, at Sorell,
unable to follow the army, offered to repair all the guns belonging to the volunteers of his
district. His example was followed by another, who, having but one leg, contributed the same
service to the common cause. Nor was supplication forgotten: a form of prayer was composed
for those who used formulas, and extempore petitions were offered by other denominations. The
colony, at large, cheerfully responded to the call of government: the military character of
the plan excited the young, without much alarming the mature. The inhabitants of the towns
readily enrolled, and the discussions every where exhibited a curious mixture of martial ardour
and civil pertinacity.

There were many old soldiers in the colony, who were amused, without being repelled by this
mimicry of war. More busy civilians, were anxious for the formality of incorporation, and the
gradations of command. The townspeople were allowed their choice, between more active service
and garrison duties. "Gentlemen," said an old soldier, "you may call yourselves marshals, generals,
and colonels, but the duties assigned you are usually performed by a corporal's guard." It
is gratifying to observe, that the last injunction of the Governor, and the last lesson of
the press, suggested humanity. Under the excitement of losses and bereavement, the destruction
of the natives had been invoked; but now, softened by the belief that the whites were about
to complete a work which had been twenty-six years in progress, and to expatriate the race,
with one voice all said, "spare them!"

The forces, including the military and constabulary, amounted to nearly five thousand; of these,
1,500 were contributed by Hobart Town, and 500 by Launceston. No army ever departed from their
homes less agitated by the uncertainties of the future; and notwithstanding the dreary picture
of the service, drawn by the colonel commanding, there was no danger that a bridge of Lodi,
or a plain of Waterloo, would be found in the campaign. Some went out with the keenness of
sportsmen who might at least catch a kangaroo: others were contented to live moderately well
at government charge. The clerks, released from their offices, gladly embraced a holiday: the
poor prisoner acted and felt as a free man, and rejoiced in the interval of his servitude;
and keen and canny volunteers embraced the opportunity to range the unknown territory, for
the discovery of some neglected spot, which might offer a future home.

On the 1st of October, the whole country was declared under martial law; excepting, however,
from its operation, not only the British, but such of the aborigines as were pacific. This
measure was of no great moment, except that it authorised the pursuit of all natives in every
quarter.

The journals not favorable to the scheme, predicted its failure. There were vast probabilities
against it: the nature of the force--the seat of war--the foe--the discipline--even the orders
not to kill, were all peculiar and discouraging. Townsmen, little accustomed to fatigue, and
sportsmen not disposed to be silent, were to move sometimes in a regular and quiet line. A
shot carelessly fired, the momentary slumber of an undisciplined sentinel, or the lazy evasion
of a scout, might disconcert the whole campaign. No Englishman could follow up the native:
the array, the number and the glancing of muskets, gave warning from afar. An European, encumbered
with his dress, could only move slowly, and when passing the bush must pause every moment,
or be tortured at every step; but the native could swing from bough to bough, mount to the
topmast branch like an opossum, move past the people seeking him diligently, or lie down until
they were gone. To many of the colonists, the campaign was no child's play. The pursuit of
solitary white or black rangers of the wood, was exhilarating to men of great animal courage,
and who could enjoy long intervals of rest; but a regular march, through such a country, soon
wore out the patience of many, and they were glad to resign the glorious undertaking to more
ardent warriors.

As the campaign advanced, the weather was unpropitious: crossing the rivers became dangerous;
trees had to be cut down to form temporary bridges. These obstacles cooled the spirit of volunteers,
who passed rapidly from discontent to criticism, and from criticism to despair. "Many crawled
home:" such was the indignant description of their retreat, given by their comrades; and whilst
the drenched, but decreasing forces lay along the line, young men, it was said, crowded the
streets of the capital, ignobly forgetful of the common cause.

Parties were divided into threes, each forming a night watch: fires were lighted for the night,
and illumined the whole distance of thirty miles, from Prosser's River to Sorell; and sentinels
paced within hail of each other. The police magistrates visited the several posts on horseback,
and the Governor rode rapidly along the line, from the Clyde to Spring Bay. Dr. Ross recording
his Excellency's exertions, states, that to allow them a full description, would leave no room
for any other topic! His labours and perils were the theme of admiration and sympathy: it was
reported, that he was lost three days in Paradise--a place renowned for its miserable vegetation,
and the dreariness of its scenery. The warlike tone of the day may excite a smile, but the
fatigue was indisputable; and although the slipperiness of the foe gave the air of mock heroism
to the service, the watchers of the line were reminded, by frequent tidings from homeward,
that their enemy was strong enough to deal death to the aged and the innocent. Four blacks,
who crossed the line, and hung upon its rear, inflicted terrible vengeance. One attacked a
settler, who returned a mortal wound with a pitchfork. The survivors hovered about the place
to avenge his death: they at length found a victim in an amiable young lady, Miss Peters; who
was speared in the breast. She felt, from the first, that the wound was mortal, and calmly
resigned herself to her destiny. Others, left by their friends and dependants, were liable
to the same perils: of this, Mr. Gildas, a settler on the Tamar, was a remarkable instance:
he had sent his men to the line, and was thus alone. He left his house to seek for fire-wood,
and was speared. The savages plundered his house, and defaced the pictures on the walls. A
pilot, calling at his dwelling, found it pillaged and desolate. This man was at the battle
of Trafalgar, and present when Nelson fell--himself reserved to perish in Tasmania, by savage
hands.

The division under Captain Donaldson, which followed up the main body of the forces, arrived
on the 31st of October. Colonel Arthur issued from the camp (Sorell Rivulet), a statement that
the final decisive movement was at hand, and that those who had been exposed to great privations,
would soon be released to their homes. Having been compelled to await reinforcements, the campaign
had been unavoidably prolonged: to have moved without them, would have risked the success of
the enterprise; the two dangerous tribes would attempt to escape, and the forces in charge
were exhorted to redouble their vigilance, to prevent their breaking through the position.

These notices indicate a confidence of success, doomed to disappointment. To the precipitation
of Mr. Walpole's party, Colonel Arthur attributed the failure of the expedition. They were
instructed not to attempt a capture, unless a considerable number could be taken; but the sight
of the slumbering enemy probably suspended the recollection of this order, and was one of those
casualties which could hardly be avoided, in such a wide distribution of command. It was on
the 22nd of October this misfortune happened: the natives were discovered hunting, and were
watched, until their evening fires were formed for the night. No noise being heard, Mr. Walpole
supposed they had taken an alarm, and advanced at twilight towards the first hut, where he
saw five blacks, with their dogs, fast asleep. He seized one man by the feet, and after a severe
struggle detained him: a boy, ornamented with figures on his body, about fifteen years of age,
shared the same lot; but two others were shot: the remainder fled. The quantity of spears and
baskets left behind, proved that their flight was sudden, and their numbers considerable.

An attempt was made by the natives to cross the line on the 27th October. The sentry had set
down his piece, and was putting some wood on the fire, when a spear was thrown at him: he threw
the billet in his hand, and was reaching his musket when he received another spear; an alarm
being given to an adjoining party, the blacks were driven back, of whom, however, six only
were seen.

A circumstance occurred, which strongly confirmed the impression, that some treacherous whites
had directed the natives. In pursuing them as far as the isthmus, they discovered in their
tracks the impression of shoe-nails, and other evidence of the presence of white men. The reports
were soon spread, that the Oyster Bay and Big River tribes were in the rear. The hopes of the
colony rapidly gave way, and the Governor, writing to the Secretary of State, on the 21st of
November, intimated his suspicion that the movement would be in vain.

These reports were, indeed, constantly circulated, and tended to damp the ardour and diminish
the vigilance of the line. Some scouring parties from Norfolk Plains fell in with a tribe of
forty, whom they pursued beyond the Shannon. They followed them for three days, but were compelled
to return: the blacks, in their progress, had surprised a settler, and murdered him. The rumours
of escape were aggravated by imagination: a party of the whites were seen by some sawyers,
who ran away and reported them as natives; and it was several days before they could be persuaded
of their error.

The settlers, worn out with fatigue and longing for their homes, were impatient to advance,
and afforded ample opportunities for concealment and escape. Among the rest a place is noticed,
which enabled the natives to defy intrusion or discovery, near the "Three Thumbs' Mountain,"--an
almost impenetrable forest, of seven miles extent: the spreading branches obscure the sky,
and lofty plants grow entwined, and conceal an object at the distance of a few feet. The attempt
of the blacks to cross the line discovered their retreat. It was resolved to assemble forces
sufficient to surround, break through, and storm this thicket: it was penetrated by about 300
men, who kept up a constant fire of musketry. A party, hearing the rustling of leaves like
the noise of cattle, followed the sound: they came up to an encampment, where the fires were
unextinguished, and where half-formed weapons indicated a hasty dispersion. Here they found
the impression of nails, and what were deemed sure proofs of a superior directing intelligence.
The presumption, that some convicts were incorporated with the blacks, was certainly strong,
but it was probably but a temporary or casual intercourse, of not much utility to the natives.
The Governor had, however, a full conviction that to this circumstance the failure might be
partly ascribed. In the middle of the march, he ordered the publication of a report, which
appeared decisive of the fact. Savage, a servant of Mr. Bisdee, was met half naked by the Governor,
near Mills' Lagoon, to whom he stated he had been surrounded by a tribe, and rescued from violence
by a man named Brown, who was with them. This person he had known in gaol. Savage advised Brown
to bring in the natives, but he refused: he said that he had been frequently at Hobart Town,
where he had bought clothes for the women: he had a double-barrelled gun, and seemed to have
complete control over them. They carried Savage with them as far as Mills' Lagoon, when he
was told he might go. The Governor and his party instantly set off in the pursuit, but they
discovered no traces of the natives. The truth of this narrative has been questioned, yet from
the number of points in which a correct memory, or extraordinary powers of invention would
be requisite, the Governor might have easily detected imposition. The man stated that fright
cured him of rheumatism; his rags were consistent with his story. It is, however, the only
clear testimony to the presence of white men with the blacks at that period.

On the 26th of November, it was announced by the Governor, that the first series of operations
was brought to a close; and except a few, requisite to protect the country, the colonists and
their servants were released, and the town guards replaced.[17]

Those who had condemned the plan, now censured its precipitate abandonment: they said that
hundreds of blacks were enclosed when the troops were withdrawn. It is not likely, however,
that the Governor was deceived on this point. It is certain that many blacks were in the rear,
and the dispersion of the force was equal to a confession, that the object was impracticable--that
it had failed.

Thus closed the Black War. This campaign of a month, supplied many adventures, and many an
amusing tale; and, notwithstanding the gravity of his Excellency, much fun and folly. The settler
soldiers returned to their homes, their shoes worn out, their garments tattered, their hair
long and shaggy, with beards unshaven, their arms tarnished; but neither blood-stained nor
disgraced. They had seen much and dreaded more; but, in general, they met no other enemies
than scrub and thorns, and they sat down on their own hearths, happy in having escaped the
ramrods of their friends. The odd tactics, awkward movements--the skulking and the foraging,
and all the various small accomplishments of a bivouac, were long topics of conversation and
laughter. The accidents were few, though of these some were fatal: two aborigines only were
captured, and one soldier was wounded. Yet though not very glorious, perhaps no evening in
the year passes, but some settler's fireside is enlivened by a story of the fatigues and frolics
of the Black War.

When the last movement was completing, the Science sailed for England with despatches from
Colonel Arthur: they indicate his expectation of a failure, and scarcely conceal his mortification.
Either the original impossibility of the plan, or the indolence or incaution of those who carried
it out, had exposed the government to more than ridicule. Five thousand men had taken the field,
beside the town guard. Nearly £30,000 had been expended, and probably not much less value in
time and outlay by the settlers, and two persons only were captured! Those who prophecied the
result, of course exulted in their sagacity: for the rest, they either praised the motive or
the details. An impartial retrospect will not permit a commendation of the plan. The arrangements
were ably made, and the parties, though they encountered difficulties unusual, reached the
appointed places with considerable precision.

A public meeting was called to thank the Governor for his exertions in the field. This assembly
was summoned, says the chronicler of the times, by the largest placard ever published in the
colony! The resolutions and addresses were nearly unanimous; Mr. Gregson being almost singly
opposed to this tribute of gratitude. It was objected by this gentleman, that while the activity
of the Governor was not to be disputed, exertions wisely directed were alone worthy of praise;
and he compared the project for netting the aborigines, with an attempt to harpoon a whale
from the heights of Mount Wellington. The ardour of the people would not, however, admit a
comparison which it required at that moment some political resentment to perceive. Nor is it
precisely just to estimate the merits of a plan, by the success of its application. A colonist
at a glance sees, in the names which were attached to the addresses, that the war was popular:
all parties, of every shade, contributed something to that warmth of commendation, which had
been hitherto paid by one alone. In every district of the colony, the applauses of Hobart Town
were re-echoed, and the Governor's replies gave back an exchange of praise.

To suppose that Colonel Arthur expected military renown from such an enterprise, is certainly
to under-estimate his ambition: to imagine that he valued a military spectacle, is not consistent
with a mind much too practical for chivalry. His avowed and real object was to stop the murder
of his countrymen, and to arrest the extinction of the natives; and it was not unworthy the
public gratitude.[18] The Governor was delighted, however, by those proofs of the discipline
of the prisoners, which were afforded through the campaign: many hundreds were in arms: they
performed their duty with exemplary diligence and sobriety, and thus afforded the only spectacle
which Colonel Arthur valued. It was certainly unprecedented. Slaves have been armed by their
masters--their wives and children were hostages--but convicts, never. Robberies were less frequent
than usual, and the journals singularly free from the details of crime. The animating influence
of confidence reposed, elevates the least romantic natures: since they were trusted, they were
faithful: all returned home to their servitude.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 17: The sheriff, Mr. Dudley Fereday, had before dismissed that portion which guarded
the gaol: he affected to believe that the prisoners were not safe. There was small chance of
escaping, so observed the newspapers, while the civilians were on guard--the prisoners themselves
had given up all hope! But the sheriff thought otherwise, or more probably availed himself
of his office, to cast into the dirt the honors of the civic guard; who had observed the forms
of military discipline, and who merited a more distinguished termination to their service.]

SECTION VII.

While the hostile proceeding was in progress, the future preserver of the natives, Mr. Robinson,
had already given his thoughts to their conciliation. In 1829, he was appointed to take charge
of Bruné Island, where twelve natives, captured, were located, and mixed with others who had
attained a partial civilisation. Mr. Robinson attempted to acquire their language, and was
soon able to understand them. The pecuniary advantages of his office were not very alluring:
£50 a-year, and rations, were thought equal to obtain a person of good character to manage
the infant establishment, and to effect the proposed intercourse with this unfortunate race.
Mr. Robinson described his plan, as the employment of persuasion only, and requiring the withdrawment
of intimidation. He first laboured to acquire the language--a task of some difficulty: the
English were scarcely less ignorant on this subject, than when they first landed, and the dialects
of the tribes differed considerably. The aborigines were supposed to understand the English
tongue much more extensively; but the words with which they were most familiar, were the imprecations
so often addressed to them--they were able to retort common terms of menace. Their intercourse
with bushrangers and stock-keepers on remote stations, was the chief source of their knowledge.
To learn the language as an instrument of civilisation, would be the first idea of a Christian
missionary; but it was a conception, too lofty for the colonial mind. It was forgotten that
by no other means can savages be softened, or permanently conciliated. The effect, when adopted,
was electric: they learned to address Mr. Robinson as their marmanake, or father, and thus
to distinguish him from other white men. The stupidity attributed to barbarians, and the vacant
laughter, with which they receive the announcement of new ideas in a foreign tongue, would
be ascribed, by experienced teachers, to the absurdity of such a medium of communication.[19]

The plan adopted by Mr. Robinson, was not only humane--it was reasonable. The natives were
proud of freedom: their restraint was disguised, and by unvarying kindness he taught them to
regard him as their friend; and thus they were prepared, not only to submit to his authority,
but to rely upon his promises. White men had thought it a merit to deceive, and it required
some skill to convince them. Having explained the proposals of the government, he took with
him several of their number, and went on his errand of mercy. The aborigines were evidently
prepared for his mission. Most of the tribes had occasionally direct intercourse with Europeans--true,
the more frequent, the more hostile; but while they regarded the whites with hatred, this commerce
enabled them to appreciate the presents provided to entice them, and facilitated friendly communication.
All on the east side of the island were confederated; and when any were gained, they became
agents in each other's pacification. The late pursuit, though it had not subdued their enmity,
or even their courage, had convinced many that there was no security but by peace. Others,
however, long resolved to confide in their own strength, and to take refuge in the fastnesses
of the island. Such was the answer they gave to the messages of Robinson; but the late events
had separated them from each other--it had scattered their tribes: members of the same family
were part in captivity, and the knowledge of their condition moved the sympathies of relations
still at large. Of this, an affecting instance transpired in 1831. Some, who gave themselves
up, stated that they had been very unhappy: they had gone over the country, searching for their
lost friends, of whom they could gain no tidings. We realise a softening scene, in contemplating
these fragmentary tribes, traversing their ancient haunts, and uttering the unanswered, and
then melancholy call which distinguishes their race. When this party were told that their relations
were living under the protection of Robinson, they expressed an anxious wish to join them,
and met them with exclamations of joy.

The numerous islands that surround the coast, greatly facilitated the detention of captives:
few of the male natives could swim; few understood the structure of a catamaran. The means
of escape were not easily obtained, and for a time the novelty and repose of their bondage
mitigated their dislike to its restrictions: these natural fortresses kept them in safety,
without the aspect of a prison; and one or other island was accessible from most points of
the Tasmanian shore.

Colonel Arthur implied, by his closing proclamation, when he dismissed the forces, that their
labors formed the first series of a connected plan, only partially developed. The war was,
in the estimation of the Governor and his friends, a preparation for a mission of peace. It
was fortunate that Robinson's early progress imparted to the warlike expedition the eclât of
reflected success. It is not necessary to scrutinise the notion, or to teach what this history
will not warrant--that measures of conciliation are more successful, when pursued under the
forms of hostility. Had the milder method been tested at an earlier period, the expenses of
the campaign might have been spared. Colonel Arthur, however, warmly approved, and strenuously
supported the pacific mission: not only was he convinced that nothing further could be expected
from arms, but he felt a real compassion for the unfortunate race. In this course, he found
considerable opposition. "We strongly raise our voice," one editor remarks, "against their
civilisation. The natives are not to be trusted; and the lives of all engaged in the mistaken
policy of conciliation, are never safe for one moment."

The conduct of this mission, the Governor entrusted to the Aborigines' Committee, originally
consisting of Archdeacon Broughton, Rev. Messrs. Bedford and Norman; P. A. Mulgrave, J. Thomas,
S. Hill, and Charles Arthur, Esquires. Their authenticated statements are embodied in these
pages: their sentiments accorded with their character, but were slightly tinged by the feelings
of the day.

To devise the means of capture, and superintend their application, was their most important
function. It was proposed by one gentleman, exasperated by injuries, or perhaps unconscious
of the details of his plan, to pursue the natives with bloodhounds. Another suggested the employment
of a man, "who would soon put an end to the eastern mob; and who had already killed half that
tribe, by creeping upon them and firing among them." He thought that "the worst men were the
best to engage" in this work. Another proposed to employ the sealers--men who had waged a war
of extermination with great success. It is but just to observe, that proposals like these,
though received, were not favored by the Governor. They are in the records of Office, connected
with the names of their authors, and they admit no other excuse than a reference to recent
acts of aboriginal violence, which had shaken the common principles of British humanity.

The Governor had already announced the re-capture of the natives who escaped from Mr. Batman's,
while he was absent at the war. They re-commenced depredations: he finally re-took them without
bloodshed. But the most pleasing intelligence, and that which chiefly inspired hope, came from
the south-east extremity of the island: Mr. Robinson went round the coast; touched at Macquarie
Harbour, visited Circular Head, and Portland: there he took Lemina Beginna, a chief, and twenty-two
others, including thirteen conciliated at George's River. These were brought round to Gun Carriage
Island; a temporary abode, ill-suited for their entertainment, and where several soon concluded
their troubled career.

Lemina complained that, many years ago, his wife had been taken away by sealers, and entreated
the Governor to procure her restoration; another petitioned, that his sister and his mother
might be recovered from the same vile oppressors. The sister was known as Black Jock, and seems
to have been greatly in request: she was in alliance with the leader of one of the parties--less
modest than familiar. A sealer, from whom she had eloped, when she came back to the coast demanded
her, with some vehemence, as his wife! So much beloved was this Tasmanian belle. The arbitration
of these disputes was no easy task: though sufficiently ridiculous, they often seriously endangered
the mission. The Governor issued an order against the interference of the sealers, and declared
Mr. Robinson under the special protection of government.

In reference to these captures, the Governor publicly expressed his great gratification, and
requested the colonists to promote pacific intercourse, by all available means. The discretion
displayed by Robinson, not less than his courage, excited much admiration, and hopes were entertained
that the true means of safety were at last discovered. Mr. Robinson now requested that the
armed parties should be recalled, depôts established to afford an asylum to the captives, and
additional agents employed. Mr. Cotterell, and others were engaged to act in subordination
to the movements of Robinson. The Sydney blacks, ten of whom had been brought down by Mr. Batman,
for the mission, had been found less useful: they were rewarded, and sent home. The aborigines
of New Holland despised the Tasmanian blacks--a race, ignorant of the womera![20]

In the following September, 1831, Mr. Robinson obtained another considerable accession, assisted
by Lemina Beginna: they travelled, backwards and forwards, for four hundred miles, and found
old acquaintances. Eumarrah, the chief of the Stony Creek tribe, when he saw Mr. Robinson,
ran to him and shook hands, and with five men and one woman, gave himself up: three only of
his tribe remained! The captives were described as remarkably athletic: they talked incessantly,
and complained bitterly that their women had been stolen. The inequality of numbers confirmed
this charge. While Robinson was with them, a boat's crew came in sight; and it required all
his influence to prevent the natives from retreating with precipitation. Thus the evil they
suffered in their first intercourse, pursued them to the last moment of their freedom.

M'Kay, who had been employed under Mr. Robinson, added to these captures. Two friendly native
women accompanied him, and they followed the track for a week. At last, they found the natives
encamped in a plain: in the dead of night the party dashed in among them, and took two men,
one woman, and a boy. Surrage, also assisted by two native females, captured eight men and
two women. Their method was curious: the tame women were sent up the hill, where the fires
were seen: they returned; four men followed them down to the boat, and six others, men and
women, were speedily seen in the footsteps of their companions.

While these captures were proceeding, Mr. Robinson started for the Surrey Hills and Circular
Head. He left the party lately conciliated in Launceston: they were cheerful, and expected
their proposed voyage to the islands with great glee. They spoke of their past outrages without
reluctance, which they justified by relating the cruelties they had suffered.

The Governor was anxious to notice every instance of intrepidity and kindness: it is the coward
that is ferocious. The indulgences of the crown were freely given to persons, of whatever class,
who exemplified courage and humanity. Mr. Anstey, a young gentleman of the interior, was rewarded
with five hundred acres. He had surprised and taken several, and the skill of his arrangements
prevented the effusion of blood. In a few instances, the natives voluntarily surrendered. Mr.
Charles Headlam saw two approaching, holding up their hands--thus indicating the absence of
their spears: he was standing on the threshold when he remarked the signal, and immediately
lowered his gun. These unfortunate beings were admitted into the house, and supplied with food;
and finally conducted to a place of safety.

These feelings were occasionally damped by acts of atrocity, committed by the blacks. It is
not to be supposed, however, that provocation ceased, or that the impulse given by four years
conflict, could be simultaneously paralysed. The tribes frequenting the Tamar and the Forth,
were represented as becoming increasingly mischievous. The fate of Mrs. M'Alister was deeply
affecting: when wounded, she ran bleeding from her dwelling: her servants carried off the children
to a place of safety. The unhappy mother concealed herself, for a time, in a field of corn:
unable longer to suppress her anxiety, she rushed from her hiding place, crying out for her
children. She was seen by the blacks, and slain! The relater of this catastrophe concludes--"Let
the sentence of extermination in their hearts, be firmly sent forth on our parts." If we shudder
at such sentiments, they scarcely awaken surprise, when closing a narrative like this.

The murder of Captain Thomas and Mr. Parker, by the Big River tribe, renewed the exasperation.
His servants, who had landed some provisions, gave a small portion to the natives. He was told
by three of the blacks, that many were in the woods, and he resolved to follow them. Parker,
who accompanied him, advised him to take his gun. As they were walking, a native snatched it
away: they became alarmed and ran, and were pierced with spears. This case seemed to indicate
a hopeless spirit of innate malice: Captain Thomas was known to be humane, and his object was
to conciliate. The natives had, however, experienced great cruelties from the servants and
others. A coroner's jury brought in a verdict of wilful murder: those charged were arrested,
and committed to gaol; afterwards, they were removed to Flinders. As the vessel rounded the
coast, the scene of the murder was visible, and they became extremely agitated; but the opinion
of the colony was no longer favorable to executions, and the government had discovered a more
excellent way.

Mr. Robinson now landed at Circular Head, and assisted by his native companions, he followed
up the Big River tribe: he fell in with the party at Lake Echo; they had moved with haste,
and left behind several stand of arms, a looking glass, and the gun of Captain Thomas. Other
encampments were passed, but when Robinson approached them, they invariably fled. They had
been to a spot twenty miles south-east of the Van Diemen's Land Company's establishment, whither
they were accustomed to resort for a mineral, which is found in a decomposed bed of felspar.
From this place they were followed by Robinson, who overtook them thirty miles north-west of
the Peak of Teneriffe. He saw them first to the east of the Barn Bluff Mountain, and was not
more than two miles distant. He hailed his people, and selected a few of his friendly natives,
who, together with the woman present at the murder of Captain Thomas, were sent to meet them.
The party of Robinson were concealed by a scrub. In less than half an hour he heard the war-whoop,
and perceived that they were advancing, by the rattling of their spears. This was an awful
moment to their pacificator. On their approach, the chief, Manalanga, leaped on his feet in
great alarm, saying that the natives were coming to spear them: he urged Mr. Robinson to run,
and finding he would not, took up his rug and spears and went away. The rest of the allies
prepared to follow him; but were prevailed on by Robinson to remain. They inferred, that the
natives sent on the embassy of peace, were either killed, or that they had joined the hostile
tribe. As these advanced, the friendly emissaries were unseen, being hidden by the larger number
of the strangers, who still raised their cry, and approached in warlike array. At length Robinson
saw his own people: he then went up to the chiefs and shook hands with them. He explained the
object of his visit; distributed trinkets among them, and sat down and partook refreshment
with them. From that time they placed themselves under his control, and as they advanced towards
Hobart Town, he encouraged them to make excursions, which left their own actions free, and
prevented suspicion and distrust. With their wives and children, this party consisted of thirty-six,
and at length they were safely lodged on Swan Island. They were fine muscular men, and excited
great interest and sympathy.

This incident suggested to the venerable artist, Mr. Duterreau, the idea of a national picture:
he depicts the interview, and delineates the various countenances, drawn from the life, with
great energy and effect. Robinson is seen in expostulation with a listening chief; a woman,
behind him, is endeavouring to pour distrust into his ear. Others are looking on in expectation
or in doubt. The grouping is skilful and expressive; and this picture, which has the great
merit of minutely representing the attitudes and customs of the natives, will be an interesting
memorial, in another age, of the most honorable passage in Tasmanian history.

The results of his enterprise produced a strong impression in favor of Mr. Robinson: he had
been thought rash, and even fanatical; his death had been predicted a hundred times--his success
was attributed, half in jest and half in earnest, to some species of animal enchantment. The
government, at the suggestion of the Committee, acknowledged his exertions, not only with warm
eulogy but substantial rewards. He received a maximum grant, in the title of which his service
to the public was recorded, and was paid a salary more suited to the office he filled. Others
were also liberally recompensed for their contributions to his success, of which the merit
was more in its conception than in its detail.

Having shewn the possibility of conciliation, Mr. Robinson declined the further risk of his
life, except on terms which would place his family beyond the reach of want. The Governor fully
met his just claims, providing pensions for his wife and children, in case of his death, and
promising £1,000,--£300 in hand, and the rest when all should be brought in. It was understood,
that the future government of the aborigines should be entrusted to his charge, when the mission
had realised its intention. The Governor granted all his requests, and spared no expense to
ensure his success. The task was not accomplished for several years, but from this time the
natives at large rarely appeared, and the colonists enjoyed that repose to which they so long
had been strangers. His labours were attended with various and unusual perils. It was the custom
of the men belonging to the Circular Head establishment, to approach the native fires, and
destroy all they could not capture. One night, Robinson, with his black attendants, were on
a point of land six miles from the establishment: the people were attracted by the smoke, when
turning accidentally, he saw seven men cautiously creeping round: they had levelled their muskets:
but for an instant recognition of his voice, his labours and his life would probably have ended.

Mr. Robinson had learned, that a large party were approaching Arthur River, on their way to
their own country, and returning from a warlike expedition against those recently captured.
He resolved to send four friendly blacks, and three recent converts, to open a communication
with this tribe: they were to make signals, if successful. Two days after, the sign was given.
On reaching the farther bank, he saw the wild natives coming towards him with their waddies
and spears. He proposed that they should re-cross with him: they, however, desired him to remain,
promising to hunt for his entertainment. He consented, and made them presents; but he left
his son, and a small party, in the rear. He was alarmed at night by a friendly native, who
being acquainted with one of the hostile tribe, had learned that it was intended to murder
him and his people. Robinson concealed his knowledge from his companions, lest their fears
should be too powerful to suffer their remaining with him. The assassins extinguished their
own fires, but did not lie down to sleep: Robinson kept his burning brightly, that he might
watch their movement. They were earnestly chattering, and were trimming their weapons, while
one of their number insisted upon the cruelty of killing the white man! On Robinson's rising,
the whole seized their spears--one grasped in their right hand, and a bundle in their left.
The dogs of Robinson's party had been secured, and their spears removed; they, however, escaped,
and he was left alone. In a moment, he darted into the scrub: at this retreat, they seemed
struck with astonishment; and quickly covered by the thicket, their spears did not reach him.
On clearing the scrub, he hastened to Arthur River, and crossed on a floating tree. At this
instant, the natives reached the bank: he was soon joined by his own friends, and confronted
the hostile party, who stood on the opposite bank flourishing their spears. Robinson cried
out, that he forgave their conduct, and offered them his protection. This induced a girl and
two men to join him; but his situation was perilous, and having made fires, as if for signals,
he hastened away, to deposit the proselytes in safety.

This tribe continued at large until 1834. They had determined never to be taken--to subsist
upon the quoib (badger), and to perish rather than yield. Finding Mr. Robinson in pursuit,
they endeavoured to elude his search by false direction sticks. The blacks in his company dreaded
an ambush, and declared that they should all be slain, if they proceeded further, now that
their pursuit was known to the hostile tribe. Mr. Robinson, however, resolved to persevere,
and soothed their fears. The march was long and harassing, the natives having divided into
three parties, the better to escape. They were captured: eight in February, three in March,
and in April, nine; and were embarked at Circular Head for Launceston, and thence to Flinders'
Island.

The Governor warmly congratulated the colony on its deliverance, but the numbers that remained
were greater than he imagined. The abolition of martial law was deemed by some to be premature.
Twenty were captured in 1834, and seventeen in 1835. Mr. Robinson, after nine months pursuit,
came up with the small relics which were known to be still at large, in Middlesex Plains, and
found one man, four women, and two children: they had travelled as far as the head of the Derwent.
Two men, sent by Robinson with despatches from the place of their capture, were lost in the
bush, and perished. It was now announced, that no more aborigines were at large: in this, both
Mr. Robinson and the government were mistaken. Rumours, for several years, were continually
stirring, of blacks fleeing in the distance; of the thin smoke, the native cry, and other indications
of their presence. At length it was proved, that these were not the ghosts of the departed
tribes. In December, 1842, at Circular Head, seven persons were captured, and rejoined their
long banished countrymen. This remnant consisted of a single family: the parents about fifty
years; the rest of ages from childhood to thirty years. They were taken by a sealer, whose
boat they had pilfered, and conveyed to Flinders'. They were more than usually intelligent
in their appearance: they did not understand one word of English, and they had probably retained
to the last the primitive manners of their race.

Mr. Robinson was a builder at Hobart Town, his family was large, and depended on his trade.
It detracts nothing from his merit, while it is honorable to the government, that he was a
gainer by successful humanity. The munificence of the crown, alone prevented a larger subscription
by the people; he had, however, the warm and unanimous expression of public gratitude.

The character of his mission was supported by his conduct. He went unarmed, and if the natives
approached him at all, they were devoid of fear and therefore of ferocity. He plunged into
the heart of the forest, assumed the habits of a wanderer, and continued his absence for months
together. He shared the danger of his allies, and confided in their affection: he encouraged
their sports, and so far as could a white man, without debasement, he became one among them.
Hitherto the English had dealt treacherously, and rarely approached their camps, but to oppress,
to mock, or to destroy them. They now discovered, that all were not enemies, and kindness was
felt more powerfully by contrast. It is said by Backhouse, that Robinson acted under a sense
of religious duty; by Mann, that he was a fatalist or predestinarian: he was calumniated by
the base and the envious: the ascendancy he acquired over the natives, the Christian philosopher
can easily comprehend. The effect of "good will to men," is peace on earth. Moral courage,
united with generosity, often overpowers the suspicion and hostility, of even the most barbarous.
The coward dies, while the man of bold spirit dissipates the clouds of distrust, and wakens
in others the confidence he himself cherishes. Nor is it necessary for the writer to observe,
that Divine Providence gives back often, the "hazard of their lives," to the resolute in right,
or that an omnipotent protector attends the footsteps of the merciful.

Thus, in their harassing life, parents and children had been divided, and families had been
broken up in melancholy confusion: indeed, they had ceased to be tribes, and became what they
were called--mobs of natives, composed often of hereditary enemies. Infanticide and distress,
rapid flight, and all the casualties of a protracted conflict, threatened them with speedy
destruction. Had not Robinson appeared, the last savage, hopeless of peace or safety, would
have perished with his weapon in his hand. It was a great deliverance to this colony, as well
as to the native. From the Windmill-hill at Launceston, whence a wide and beautiful country
is visible, the spectator could discern the site of twenty aboriginal murders--settlers, servants,
and infants; the aged and the kind had fallen, as well as the base hearted and cruel. It was
something to know, that the fatal hand, which no precaution could resist, would be raised no more.

It was, indeed, a mournful spectacle: the last Tasmanian quitting the shores of his ancestors:
forty years before, the first settler had erected his encampment! A change so rapid in the
relations of a people to the soil, will scarcely find a parallel in this world's history; but
that banishment which, if originally contrived, had been an atrocious crime, was at last an
act of mercy--the tardy humanity of Englishmen, which rescued a remnant, extenuated the dishonor
of their cruelty to the race. As for Mr. Robinson, he enjoyed, not only the bounty of the government,
but the affection of the natives--and the applause of all good men. His name will be had in
everlasting remembrance: happier still, if numbered by the judge of all among his followers,
who came "not to destroy men's lives, but to save them."[21]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18: "Gentlemen," said Mr. Kemp, of Mount Vernon at the mess at the Macquarie Hotel,
"you see a sample before you, of what this colony can produce, which we are now, one and all,
making an unanimous effort to insure the enjoyment of in peace and comfort: if, when not only
the necessaries, but many of the luxuries of life are thus bountifully supplied us, we are
not loyal, we shall never be loyal. Fill your glasses, gentlemen--the health of his Excellency;
and success to the volunteers. Hip, hip, hip,--hurrah!"--Courier.]

[Footnote 19: Thus, while at some stations in New Holland clergymen explained in English the
principles of Christianity, the thoughts of the natives strayed to subjects more familiar,
and cries of "bacca" and "sugar," disturbed the gravity of devotion.]

[Footnote 20: Throwing stick.]

[Footnote 21: It would be difficult, however, to believe Mr. Robinson was not satirical, when
he wrote as follows;--

"The system adopted toward the aborigines of this territory is quite original. History does
not furnish an instance, where a whole nation has been removed by so MILD AND HUMANE A POLICY!"--Report
H. Commons--Aborigines, 1835.]

SECTION VIII.

During the progress of these captures, the question of future disposal was slowly determined.
Those lodged on Gun Carriage Island, through injudicious restraint or want of pure water, or
melancholy, rapidly decreased. The government was bound to seek for them a more salubrious
prison, or to restore them to the main land: an event, which would have ensured their immediate
destruction. Maria Island, recommended both by Mr. Robinson and Mr. Bedford, was desirable,
as contiguous; but nothing could prevent an escape to the colony. Kent's Group, on the coast
of New Holland, was next proposed; but the passage is difficult, and between the islands, said
the sailor witness, "the sea pours like a sluice, and the winds drive through like a funnel."
Then came King's Island, situated 140 miles north of Van Diemen's Land; but it was said to
be infested with badgers and bandicoots, and that the natives would retire into the woods,
and be no more found. Such was the extent of official knowledge, in reference to these dependencies,
that to select a spot it was necessary to appoint a special survey; but although the natives
were fast dying, the vessel destined to this service was first sent for a cargo of timber!

Captain Jackson having visited the Straits, recommended Flinders', sometimes called Great Island.
The aborigines who joined in this visit, were delighted with the country: they returned to
their companions with the spoils of hunting, and celebrated their good fortune in songs. A
soldier, who accompanied the party, wholly differed from this report: he said the climate was
bleak, the soil sterile, and destitute of springs; and his objections, though attributed to
malice, have been confirmed by experience. After much deliberation, Flinders' Island was preferred.

The Chief Justice, Sir John Pedder, opposed the removal altogether: too truly he judged, it
would be followed by rapid extinction. In denying to the aboriginal remnant an asylum within
the country of their forefathers, we inflicted the last penalty which can fall on a race, whose
lives the victors condescend to spare. It was too late, however, to repent; and pioneers were
forwarded to the place of exile. The usual fatality attended the first choice of a township,
but in 1832 Mr. Backhouse, at Colonel Arthur's request, proceeded to Flinders', where the station
was finally chosen; it was called, Wybalenna,--the "Black Man's Village." The natives were
under disguised military control, but were exceedingly docile and submissive. Cottages were
erected for their use. The women found some amusement in sweeping their houses, and depositing
or replacing the articles of their furniture--their beds, bedsteads, tables, and stools: they
washed the garments of their husbands; who, when they had occasion to complain, threatened
to work for themselves. They had seen the wives of the soldiers washing, and inferred that
this exercise was the special privilege of women.

The acting commandant, in 1832, reported them as in the highest health and spirits, full of
intelligence, advancing step by step towards civilisation: so they were described, and such
was their aspect. They were furnished with every article of domestic use, far more numerous
than usually fall to the lot of the English cottager, and which, to an Irish peasant, would
suggest the idea of shopkeeping: the men, dressed in duck clothing and Scotch caps, voluntarily
appeared with the soldiers, and presented their necessaries for inspection.

A large group watched the landing of Mr. Backhouse in silence; but when invited, they rose
up and shook hands; and when told that provisions had arrived, they set up shouts of joy: they
wore clothing, except in their dances, which they held thrice a-week, after sun set; they exhibited
much cheerfulness, affability, and mutual kindness, and no great deficiency of either physical
or intellectual power.

The system pursued by Mr. Robinson at Flinders', is minutely described in papers published
by the House of Commons. The establishment of--

1. An aboriginal fund. 2. A circulating medium. 3. An aboriginal police. 4. A weekly market:
and 5. A weekly periodical.

The first four of these measures succeeded: the periodical was not successful! but Mr. Robinson
established a respectable currency: he made the natives purchase all articles except food;
and once, when the supply of tobacco was scanty, it rose to the price of 32s. per lb.! They
were too prone to dilapidate and destroy their dwellings; they were therefore required to pay
for the locks, cupboards, and doors. They were instructed in the Christian religion, and displayed
considerable aptitude; but of some, it is remarked, that they were inattentive to learning,
and fond of the chase!

The civil and religious administration of Flinders' Island has been often changed, and subject
to factions and disputes. The stories which float in the colony, respecting the little empire
of Wybalenna, are grotesque and humorous. No modern author will venture to look into the abyss
of despatches, which develop its policy. To arrive at the truth would require an amount of
labour, perhaps not beyond its intrinsic worth, but involving large discussions and questions
not without peril. Mr. Backhouse, before leaving the colony, renewed his visit as the envoy
of the government, to heal divisions which had broken out with virulence between the ecclesiastical
and civil powers. He observes, that they principally resulted from misunderstandings, and with
this caution we resign them to the curious of some other age. It may, however, be satisfactory
to know, that in the order of succession, Messrs. Darling, Robinson, Drs. Jeannerett and Milligan,
have been commandants, and that Mr. Wilkinson, Rev. Mr. Dove, and Mr. Clark, have filled the
office of chaplain.

The religious manifestations of the aborigines are differently estimated by different minds:
by some, considered purely mechanical and imitative; by others, as the simple expressions of
a genuine piety. The evidence of their worth, would depend greatly on accompanying moral developments.
The piety of a proselyted heathen is like that of a child, more in sensibility than concatenated
dogmata: they repeated a creed, only partially understood; but they also became conscious of
a Superior Power, and a nobler destiny. The highly intelligent appreciation of religious knowledge,
attributed by their guardians, did not appear to the casual visitor; and was probably, unconsciously,
coloured. It does not pertain to this work to examine the evidence of their personal religion,
which, however, sometimes had a conservative influence in life, and to several yielded consolation
in their last hours.

In 1835, Mr. Robinson entered on his office as commandant: believing that his mission was accomplished,
he gathered the people together, and made a feast, in which they were to forget the animosities
of their tribes, and join as one family. Scarcely was this union effected, when the occupation
of Port Phillip drew attention to the aborigines of New Holland. Mr. Wedge, who visited that
country, made known to the government the barbarity of the monstrous whites; who, so soon as
they touched those shores, wantonly stained their hands with native blood. To that gentleman
we owe our ability to trace to its origin, an extermination which has kept pace with the colonisation
of that region.

Mr. Robinson proposed to remove the natives of Tasmania, then eighty-two persons, to Port Phillip.
It was expected that their presence would excite the curiosity, and stimulate the civilisation
of the New Hollanders; that possession of a flock, then 1,300 in number, would give useful
ideas of the bounty of their benefactors. It had been thought desirable to reward the aboriginal
guides, and one hundred ewes and three rams were forwarded to the establishment, to be distributed
among them: a large addition was made by private benevolence. The increase of their flock,
became a source of temporary profit to the natives: the wool was brought to Launceston, and
exchanged for haberdashery, and other articles of domestic use.

The British government, after much hesitation, fearful of its consequences to the Tasmanians,
consented to their removal. In 1838, Mr. Robinson received the appointment of Chief Protector
to the Aborigines of New Holland: the nature or the utility of that office, does not belong
to this work to discuss. By treaty with Sir George Gipps, the government of Van Diemen's Land
agreed to pay a sum annually for each ten who might survive. The deportation was sanctioned
by the blacks themselves: the certificate, which bears their signatures, might be supposed
to represent a congress of heroes, or the pack of a huntsman--names, which are chiefly borne
by dogs and princes.[22] They were anxious for the change, but quite incapable of estimating
its results. A party of twenty-two therefore accompanied Mr. Robinson, but the issue was disastrous:
called away by the duties of his office, he could not extend to them a proper supervision:
they were again exposed, in another land, to their old adversaries and seducers, the stock-keepers:
they were too few to form a village, and death thinned their numbers: two returned to Van Diemen's
Land, and afterwards to Flinders'. Of the rest, two were executed for murder. Mr. Batman had
in his house at Port Phillip, a native woman and two boys; but the New Hollanders were rather
the objects of aversion than sympathy: and, fearful of their violence, the Tasmanians avoided
their company, and showed no disposition to forsake their protector.

During the whole period of their residence at Flinders' Island, it does not appear that any
white man on the station, or even of their own colour, had preferred a criminal charge against
one of them. The commandant, as magistrate, possessed a summary jurisdiction; and the restrictions
in his court he could supplement with the forms and ensignia of power. A late commandant, when
he sentenced to small penalties for petty offences, sat at night; and to impress their imaginations,
the hall of justice was guarded with drawn swords.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 22: Achilles, Ajax, Buonaparte, King George, Hannibal, Peter Pindar, Neptune, Tippoo
Saib, Washington. A few only bore the names of ordinary mortals.]

SECTION IX.

The advances towards the final extinction of the natives, have been more rapid than was expected;
but the certainty of that event was never the subject of doubt. Sir George Murray, on the 5th
November, 1830, anticipated, and wrote down their fate; and inferred, from their decrease,
that at no distant period the whole race would become extinct: but he declared that the adoption
of any course of conduct, with this design, either avowed or secret, would leave an indelible
stain upon the government of Great Britain! It will be seen, however, that the progress of
decay was never arrested for a moment. The mortality at Bruné and Swan Islands was not less
than at Flinders'; but from 1832, a regular account has been preserved.[23]

Of the forty-five landed at Oyster Cove, in 1847, thirteen were men, twenty-two women, and
ten children. Such has been the progress of their decline, and with numbers so inconsiderable,
the problem of their fate is solved.

The original amount of the natives has been a question much debated: like a procession in a
circle, a population in motion, when not personally distinguished, will appear more numerous
than the actual census. Mr. Kelly, who often had passed the coasts, calculated them at, originally,
7,000, but he guessed their number to be 5,000 in 1830: the obvious error of the last estimate,
would naturally suggest a doubt with reference to the former. Several hundreds were, however,
seen in one assembly, within the last thirty years. At Hobart Town and Launceston, from one
to two hundred have appeared together. It was their custom to distribute themselves in parties,
of from forty to fifty each. Their fires, kindled on the sea shore, were often left burning,
when they had moved on to the next stage; and those who saw the flames from ship-board, concluded
that aborigines were lying around them, and thus telling their numbers by the fires, they were
often greatly deceived. The rapidity of their movements led to the same mistake: they appeared
at places sufficient to establish an alibi, according to the current measures of distance.
They had innumerable paths which shorten a journey, then unknown to the English: it was thus,
that they were twice reckoned, even when carefully counted. No reliance, however, will be placed
by persons of experience on the rumour of numbers. Nearly all who report an assembly, judge
by imagination rather than minute inspection; thus, mobs are spoken of as tens or hundreds
of thousands, without any intention to mislead. It will be the hope of the humane, that the
lowest estimate is the true one: it can hardly be doubted, however, that they were originally
from 4,000 to 5,000: they were estimated by Mr. Robinson at 700, when he commenced his mission;
203 were captured--many, in the mean time, fell by unknown violence and perpetual persecution:
a thousand muskets were charged for their destruction.

The causes of their diminution in Tasmania have been already stated; but some of these continued
their operation even after the capture: their natural consequences followed. Towards the last
days of their savage life, the sexes were disproportionate, although the balance was partly
restored by associating the women who had been longer in captivity, with the men whose wives
had died; but many of these women had become licentious, and by an extraordinary oversight
the government permitted unmarried convicts and others to have them in charge, or to assist
in the preliminary labor of their establishment: the result need not be told. The infant children
had perished, by the misery or contrivance of their parents: thus in 1838, of eighty-two there
were only fourteen children, and of the remainder, eight had attained the usual term of human
life: many who surrendered, were exhausted by sickness, fatigue, and decripitude. They were
the worn out relics of their nation, and they came in to lie down and die.

The assumption of clothing occasioned many deaths: they were sometimes drenched with rain--perspiration
was repressed, and inflammatory diseases followed: the licentiousness, and occasional want
of the few last years, generated disorders, which a cold brought to a crisis. Among savages,
the blanket has sometimes slain more than the sword: it destroyed the Indian of North America,
and even threatened the New Zealander with a similar fate.[24] The abundant supply of food,
and which followed destitution, tended to the same result: it was a different diet. The habits
of the chase were superseded, and perhaps discouraged: the violent action to which they had
been accustomed; the dancing, shouting, hurling the waddy and the spear--climbing for the opossum--diving,
and leaping from rock to rock--assisted the animal functions, and developed muscular power.
To continue them required the occasion, as well as the permission; but the stimulus was gone.

It is said, by writers not favorable to the establishment at Flinders', that attempts to force
the customs and habits of a civilised people were unreasonably, and even ridiculously severe.
However docile the blacks, and generous the intention of their teachers, the physical effects
of a total change in the habits of a race are not to be disputed, or that what may be harmless
when the result of choice, and founded on new mental and physical stimulants, is dangerous
when the mind is vacant, and the objects of civilised exertion unappreciated. Perhaps, no one
is blameable. In their social circumstances, we may indeed trace the occasion of decay, but
they were no longer produced by cruelty.

There were, other causes. The site of the settlement was unhealthy: they were often destitute
of good water; the tanks preserved an insufficient supply. It is admitted that they frequently
suffered this lack; but it is stated, that they had sufficient allowed them when sick!

It is, however, clear, that many perished by that strange disease, so often fatal to the soldiers
and peasants of Switzerland, who die in foreign lands from regret of their native country.
They were within sight of Tasmania, and as they beheld its not distant but forbidden shore,
they were often deeply melancholy: to this point the testimony of Mr. Robinson is decisive,
though not solitary.[25] They suffered much from mental irritation: when taken with disease,
they often refused sustenance, and died in delirium. The wife, or the husband in perfect health,
when bereaved, would immediately sicken, and rapidly pine away.[26]

Count Strzelecki has propounded a curious notion of the laws of extinction, in reference to
this race. He states that the mother of a half-caste can never produce a black child, and thus
the race dies. His statement would need the most positive and uniform testimony; but it may
be added to the curiosities of literature. The decrease of population among the inferior race,
when harassed or licentious, is certain; but surely there is nothing occult in this, or requiring
further explanation than is afforded by human cruelty and vice.

Among those who survive, is the wife of the native Walter George Arthur, the half-caste daughter
of Sarah an aboriginal woman. [Looking lately at a picture of Don Quixote, she pointed him
out as the man who fought with the windmill.] Her mother has a younger son, now or lately at
the Queen's School, and of pure aboriginal blood. A natural law, by which the extinction of
a race is predicted, will not admit of such serious deviations.

In 1844, a Finance Committee of the Legislative Council proposed the restoration of the natives
to this colony. The frequent reference to head-quarters by the officers in charge, perplexed
the government; who alleged that the distance permitted the oppression of the natives, and
exposed them to the caprice of their guardians. The measure was delayed for four years; but
in 1847, the dismissal of the commandant revived the project, and in October of that year they
were landed in Van Diemen's Land, and located at Oyster Bay, once a great station of their
people. The removal was unacceptable to the colonists; the outrages of former years were remembered
by many, as scenes of domestic mourning. No murmur had ever been heard at the cost of their
safety: it was deemed a small atonement for a national wrong: nor will it be possible to state
an expenditure which the colonial public would be unwilling to sustain--to smooth the last
hours of this unfortunate race. The transfer of a part to Port Phillip, had been attended with
fatal consequences to several, and had ended in murder and executions: it was feared that the
vicinity of their former haunts might revive their habits of wandering, and once more expose
them to those gangs of felons who set no value on aboriginal life. These sentiments led to
a spirited remonstrance, in which many respectable settlers concurred: the government had not
anticipated opposition, or it may be presumed that a statement of the actual condition of the
natives, and the provision intended for their safety, would have preceded this change in their
abode. The dark shadows of former years threw doubt on their present character: happily, however,
these impressions were erroneous.

The few who remain, are not likely to forsake the comforts of their home: belonging to various
tribes and different dialects, particular districts do not present equal attractions to all.
They have learned also to rear vegetables, and the greater number are said to be familiar with
English customs. By the census, they are assigned to the Church of England; but the distinctions
of theology are beyond their comprehension, and therefore their choice; and it is perhaps to
be lamented, that from the period of their capture, they have not been placed entirely under
the parental care of some religious communion. Those who think lightly of missionary institutions,
will find here no ground for exultation in the disastrous surveillance of the civil government.

Englishmen, of whatever rank, cannot fail to survey the aboriginal youth, less in number than
many a colonial household, with deep solicitude; or when estimating their claims, to remember
the fortunes of their fathers. Or should their helplessness and dependence ever tempt a ruler
to expose them to the corrupting influence of the lowest examples, and to assign them the meanest
education, he may be recovered to some sense of justice by the following confession of a distinguished
predecessor:--

"Undoubtedly, the being reduced to the necessity of driving a simple but warlike, and, as IT
NOW APPEARS, NOBLE MINDED RACE, from their native hunting grounds, is a measure in itself so
distressing, that I am willing to make almost any prudent sacrifice that may tend to compensate
for the injuries that government is unwillingly and unavoidably the instrument of inflicting."--GEORGE
ARTHUR.[27]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 23:

+-----+---------+-----+--------+ |Date.|Captured.|Died.|Escaped.| +-----+---------+-----+--------+
|1831 |    54   | --  |   --   | |1832 |    68   |  5  |   --   | |1833 |    42   | 40  | 
3   | |1834 |    20   | 14  |   --   | |1835 |    17   | 14  |   --   | |     |---------+-----+--------+
|     |   201   | 73  |    3   | +-----+---------+-----+--------+

The numbers were-- In 1836  In 1838  In 1847
                      ----    ----      ----
                       123      82        45]

[Footnote 24: The Bishop of New Zealand has wisely protested against the blanketing process
of depopulation. The ignorant natives, accustomed to lie down in their damp huts, were steamed
into consumptions.]

[Footnote 25: "They pine away: more than one half have died, not from any positive disease,
but from a disease they (physicians) call home sickness;'--a disease which is common to some
Europeans, particularly the Swiss soldiers. They die from a disease of the stomach, which comes
on entirely from a desire to return to their own country."--Evidence of Col. Surgeon Barnes:
Par. Papers.]

[Footnote 26: The subjoined abbreviated list may give an idea of the rapid decline:--

Commandant's Office, Flinders' Island.

1836--          DEATHS:

December 24.--The native youth, George.
         30.--The native man, Nimrod.
1837--
January 28.--The native man, Columbus.
        29.--The native woman, Pupedar.
February 5.--Of acute pneumonia, the native man Samuel.
        20.--Of chronic visceral inflammation, the native man, Algernon.
        25.--Of the same, the native man, Matthew.
        26.--Of the same, native man, Omega.
        29.--Of the same, native woman, Truedeberrie.
March 16.--The native woman, Tyree.
      21.--The native woman, Queen Charlotte.
      30.--The native woman, Manoon, ditto Maria, and an infant.

J. ALLEN, Surgeon.

June 3.--Of extreme debility, Daniel.
    20.--Of inflammation in the intestines, the aboriginal native, King
         William.

A. AUSTIN, Medical Attendant.

--Parliamentary Papers.]

SECTION X.

Origin.--The traditions of the natives afford no clue to their origin. They are, perhaps, a
branch of the Australasian family settled in New Holland(?). Mocha, is the name for water among
the western tribe of this island: it is known by the same sound at Cape Leeuwin, on the continent.
Though boats were not employed, they constructed a catamaran of bark, or decayed wood, of the
specific gravity of cork: these materials, tied together, enabled them to pass to the islands
of the Straits.

Lieutenant Gunn found at Maria Island, and preserved for several months, a catamaran, sufficiently
tight and strong to drift for sixteen or twenty miles: each would convey from four to seven
persons. The catamaran described by the French naturalist, found in Adventure Bay, was made
of pieces of bark, and held together by cords made of grass, and assumed the appearance of
meshes worked in the form of a pentagon. Mr. Taw, the pilot of Macquarie Harbour, saw the natives
cross the river: on this occasion, a man swam on either side of the raft--formed of the bark
of the "swamp tree." The distance between the islets is not sufficient to shut us up to the
notion of a local creation.[28] A New Holland woman, taken to Flinders', remembered a tradition,
that her ancestors had driven out the original inhabitants--the fathers, it is conjectured,
of the Tasmanian race. History carries us back to the year 1642, and it is in vain to seek
authentic information from a people destitute of records, and perpetually wandering. The time
between the first visit and colonisation, was quite sufficient to obliterate the traces of
earlier migrations.

Consanguinity.--A comparison of the Tasmanian with the European, would discredit a common root;
but the wide spread family of man exhibits all the shades and varieties, by which the extremes
are connected. Strzelecki observes, that to account for this connection, is not less vainly
attempted than an explanation of the existence of marsupials: but the cases are not comparable.
The difficulty, in reference to the human race, is resolved by its intermixture: nature mingles
none but kindred blood.

Stature.--The man of Tasmania, is from four and a-half to five and a-half feet high. The skin
is blueish black; less glossy than the native of the continent. The facial angle is from 73°
to 85°. The features of the women are masculine: the mammæ become pyriform, and elongate in
nursing. The hair is black, and woolly; sometimes luxuriant, occasionally long and glossy.
The eyes are full: the eyelid dropping: the iris dark brown: the pupil large, and jet black.
The forehead is high, narrow, and running to a peak: the malar bones are prominent, the cheeks
hollow, the breast arched and full: the limbs round, lean, and muscular: the hands small; the
feet flat, and turned inwards. The frame does not differ from the common structure of man,
and by science is not pronounced inferior, according to the rules of phrenologists.[29]

General Appearance.--The impression made upon spectators by the Tasmanian race, has been curiously
various. By some, they are said to be the lowest in their physical organisation, their mental
capacity, and their social condition. Those who saw them at the same period, and compared them
with the inhabitants of Port Jackson, differed entirely in their estimate. In the aged women,
there was little to admire: of them, even Mr. Backhouse speaks with unwonted emotion: they
reminded him of the ourang outang; they were hideous! but he thought the younger women more
agreeable. Another visitor in 1830 describes them as having small hollow eyes, broad noses,
nostrils widely distended; jaws like the ourang outang; thin limbs; shapeless bodies; and a
hideous expression of countenance! Cook described them as having lips not remarkably thick;
their noses moderately flat. Labillardière noticed a peculiar projection in the upper jaw of
children, which recedes in adult age. They certainly do not correspond with our notions of
beauty, but they are not inferior to millions of the human race. Among the captives, were some
whose stature and port strongly impressed the spectator. Backhouse observed one especially,
whose features had a Jewish cast, and reminded him of the popular pictures of Abraham! Their
thin and wretched appearance, occasioned by their diet, and diseases, cannot be properly attributed
to their constitution. Half starved human beings, unclothed, are ever unpleasing. Those acquainted
with populous cities in Europe, have often been compelled to recognise, in the squalor and
emaciation of classes, the germs of a new race. The captive blacks, when partially clothed,
relieved from anxiety, and supplied with food, soon presented a new aspect; and their countenances
were lighted up with cheerfulness and intelligence.

Families.--Polygamy was tolerated: women were, latterly, bigamists. Labillardière observed
that one man had two wives: this philosopher was held in suspense, on the comparative happiness
of their condition; true, the affections of the husband were divided--but they jointly catered
for one man instead of two! It is said that they courted with flowers: an authenticated fact,
proves that the female occasionally possessed a negative. Roomata (Bet) rejected the addresses
of Trigoonipoonata (Jack); but she learned the worth of his affection. She was crossing a river,
and became ill: he sprung to her relief, and carried her safely to land; and she became his
wife.[30] They daily brought game to the residence of the superintendent, during his temporary
absence--lest, said they, he should want on his return. The woman having been left behind,
on recovery followed the tribe with the new born infant. The toil of the journey, and of the
encampment, chiefly fell to her lot: she carried utensils of all kinds, except the spears.
The infant was slung on the back, and suckled over the shoulder: a draftsman, in the company
of Cook, drew the portrait of a young female, so burdened. The position of the child has been
pronounced, without much reason, a proof of low maternal sensibility. Those who have carried
children through a journey, can only imagine the amount of affection requisite to convey, often
more than one, after a tribe in its rapid migrations.

Infanticide.--Infanticide was not common; although, in the latter days, when harassed by daily
conflict, the practice, was not unknown. It is stated by Leigh, that they were careful not
to increase in number, and that they sold their female children. At a later period, it is said,
that to suckle puppies they abandoned their offspring. Such facts are not incredible, when
they relate to individuals, but are scarcely characteristic of a race: all nations have perpetrated
infanticide, from necessity, or pride, or barbarism. Infant life is little valued among savages,
and female children least: they run the gauntlet of a thousand perils. Fewer were born than
among settled people, and more died in infancy.

Uncivilised man is ever harsh in his treatment of woman. The natives of this country were less
imperious than those of Port Jackson, where the blows of the waddy solemnised matrimony. Beside
the burden of travel, they chiefly hunted the opossum, and mounted the lofty trees of the Tasmanian
forest. When the man condescended to give part of his spoil, he handed over his shoulder the
least delectable pieces to his wife, who sat at his back. Often, however, this indulgence was
refused. Mr. Horton records an instance of unkindness, perhaps not general, nor very uncommon:
it was noon; the mother, her infant, and little boy, had been without food all day: the father
refused any part of that he had provided. Another of the tribe, however, was more generous:
when he handed the woman a portion, at Mr. Horton's request, before she tasted any herself,
she fed her child.

They were often misunderstood; but they were sensible of domestic affections: the tribes were
scattered by the last war--some were captives, others fugitives: eleven were already lodged
at Richmond, when Mr. Gilbert Robertson brought up two others, a man and woman: they were recognised
from afar by the party first taken; these raised the cry of welcome; it was a family meeting,
and deeply moved the spectators. The parents embraced their children with rapture, and many tears.

Under an engraving of a Van Diemen's Land woman and child, from a painting by J. Webber, the
Journal of Civilisation ventures the following:--"Contemplate the appalling picture! see her,
in fact, without maternal affection! To such a mother, it would matter little to see her babe
fall from her back and perish!" The woman of Van Diemen's Land, by the French artist, is most
lively and maternal: her child is leaning over her head, its feet resting on her shoulders:
she looks up towards it, with a strong expression of affection. Labillardière repeatedly remarks
the tenderness of the women to their children, as "very engaging." He also had a theory: but
why suppose a black woman below a tigress, in the scale of maternity. The law of nature, deadened
by circumstances, but which is even strong in the brute, was not inactive in their hearts.
In every country, it is individually variable.

There is a grave in a garden at Ben Lomond: Mr. Batman, the morning after its little tenant
was deposited, walked up to the spot; but although he went at sunrise, one person was earlier:
a Tasmanian woman; who sat by the grave, and wept. It was the mother.

Half-caste.--The half-caste children were oftener destroyed. A woman, who had immolated an
infant of mixed origin, excused herself by saying it was not a pretty baby; this was, however,
far from universal, and more commonly the act of the tribe than of the mother. A native woman,
who had an infant of this class, fell accidentally into the hands of her tribe: they tore the
child from her arms, and threw it into the flames. The mother instantly snatched it from death,
and quick as lightning dashed into the bush; where she concealed herself, until she made her
escape. The injuries she received were, however, fatal. An elder daughter, called Miss Dalrymple,
was the first half-caste child born in the colony: she was remarkably prepossessing: her eyes
black, her skin copper-colored, her cheeks rosy, and her limbs admirably modelled: she was
adopted by a settler.

A considerable number of such children grew up in the island; but they were neglected by their
parents, and often inherited the vices or barbarism of both. The females were early debased,
and presented spectacles of nakedness and misery. When the Orphan School was formed, a few
children were admitted at the government charge; of these, a fragment survive.

A half-caste couple were married recently at Launceston: the expression of their countenances
was extremely pleasing. They had been sent up from the Straits to obtain a legal sanction to
their union, and they went through the ceremony with much sensibility. There is a register
in St. John's Church, Launceston, of the marriage of an aboriginal pair in 1829; the first
ever celebrated in the face of the church.

Tribes.--Their tribes were distinct: they were known as the Oyster Bay, the Big River, the
Stony Creek, and the Western. There were smaller sub-divisions; but those enumerated were divided
by dialects, and well-established boundaries. Their chiefs were merely heads of families, and
distinguished by their strength or cunning: they were thought to possess very trifling and
uncertain control. It is said, that a notorious bushranger (Howe) fell in with a tribe: he
assisted his companions in lifting a boat, but as he appeared in command, the chief checked
him for lowering his dignity--a sovereign instinct, which shews the heart of a true prince.
When the chiefs accompanied white men in their sports, and were requested to carry their spoil,
they often manifested disdain and reluctance. Little is known of their policy, and probably
there was but little to be known. The natives lived in harmony with each other, or when they
quarrelled they decided by the weight of their waddies, and the thickness of their skulls.
The aggressions of other tribes were punished by reprisals, but they rarely pursued a foe.
Offences among themselves were treated according to their supposed enormity: the culprit had
to stand while a certain number of spears were thrown at him. By this ordeal he was cleared,
and the keenness of his eye and the agility of his motions, usually enabled him to escape a
fatal wound. Faults, of slighter consequence, were punished without damage: the transgressor
was set on the branch of a tree, and had to endure the mockery of the by-standers. It may be
gratifying to discover such an example, in favor of the pillory!

Huts.--Their locomotion was predetermined, and their encampments regularly chosen; generally
on the banks of a river or a lagoon. Each family had its fire; hunted separately, and erected
a hut for its own accommodation. On the mountains, and beside the sea shore, they lodged in
caverns; or where these were not found, as in the open country, they reared huts, or rather
screens: these were of bark, half-circular, gathered at the top, and supported by stakes: in
the front they kindled a fire. These huts formed rude villages, and were seen from seventeen
to forty together. The former number being raised by a tribe of seventy, from four to five
must have lodged under one shelter. Some, found at the westward, were permanent: they were
like bee-hives, and thatched: several such were seen by Jorgenson, on the western shore--strong,
and apparently erected for long use. They drew water for the sick in shells: the robust threw
themselves on the bank, and drank as they lay. Boiled water was not used in their primitive
state; it is said to have been unknown. This is scarcely credible: a heated shell or stone,
filled by rain water, might have discovered the secret. They preserved their fire, usually
by carrying a brand; if this was extinguished, they replaced it by going back to their last
encampment, where the fuel still smouldered. It is said, that they were not ignorant of producing
fire by friction.

Food.--Their appetite was voracious: a woman was watched one day, during which, beside a double
ration of bread, she devoured more than fifty eggs, as large as those of a duck. Mr. O'Connor
saw a child, eight years old, eat a kangaroo rat, and attack a cray-fish. The game they cast
into the fire, and when singed drew it out and extracted the entrails; it was then returned
to the embers, and when thoroughly warmed, the process was completed. They were acquainted
with the common expedient of savage nations, who pass from repletion to hunger: they tightened
a girdle of kangaroo skin, which they wore when otherwise naked. Fat they detested; some tribes
also rejected the male, and others the female wallaby, as food: the cause is unknown. A few
vegetable productions, as the native potato, and a fungus, which forces up the ground, called
native bread, and which tastes like cold boiled rice; the fern and grass-tree, also yielded
them food. White caterpillars and ant eggs, and several other productions, supplemented their
ordinary diet. The animals on which they subsisted chiefly, were the emu, kangaroo, wallaby,
and the opossum: the latter living in trees. They obtained a liquor from the cyder tree (eucalyptus),
which grows on the Shannon, and elsewhere: it is tapped like the maple; its juice, of the taste
of molasses, trickled down into a hole at the foot of the tree, and was covered with a stone.
By a natural fermentation, it became slightly intoxicating; and in early days was liked by
the stockmen.

During the winter, the natives visited the sea shore: they disappeared from the settled districts
about June, and returned in October. The women were accustomed to dive for shell fish, which
they placed in a rude basket, tied round the waist. On these marine stations (as at Pieman's
River on the west coast), their huts were constructed with more care. Heaps of oyster shells,
which seem to be the accumulation of ages, still attest their dependence on the abundance of
the sea.

Dress and Ornaments.--In summer, they were entirely naked: in the winter, they protected the
shoulders and the waist by a dried skin of kangaroo. The women wore the same, with the addition
of ruffles. The dress of Europeans greatly distressed them: they endured it no longer than
their visit; yet they were sensible of cold, and could bear less exposure to the weather than
Englishmen. They sat close to their fires; and, during days of rain, continued under shelter.
The men wore, on the head, grease mixed with ochre--a sort of plumbago, found at the Hampshire
Hills: it was used partly for ornament, and partly as a substitute for cleanliness. Bits of
wood, feathers, flowers, and kangaroo teeth, were inserted in the hair, which was separated
into tufts, rolled and matted together. This decoration was denied the women: their hair was
cropped close, with sharp crystal; some on the one side of the head only, in others like the
tonsure of the priest. They were accustomed to ornament the body by several methods, differing
perhaps with different tribes. Patches of ochre and grease formed a considerable portion of
their adornment. With a shining mineral they drew symmetrical lines on the neck, shoulders
and face, and various parts of the body; in some cases they resembled epaulettes, in others
they imitated the eye: they also made incisions, which they kept open by grease, till the skin
was raised, and the process complete: the torment they endured with great fortitude, and affected
indifference. Penderome, the brother of a western chief, underwent this operation, which was
performed by a woman with broken glass. The flesh of his shoulder opened like crimped fish;
but he interrupted the process by antics and laughter. They wore a necklace called merrina;
it was principally composed of pearly blue shells, bored by the eye tooth, and strung on the
sinews of kangaroo. These shells were cleansed by the acid of wood steam, and received a high
polish.

Arms and Implements.--Their utensils and weapons were simple: the baskets, formed of grass,
described by Furneaux, were not afterwards improved, but they answered the end. The waddy was
a short piece of wood, reduced and notched towards the grasp, and slightly rounded at the point.
The spear, nine or ten feet long, was pointed at the larger end, straightened by the teeth,
and balanced with great nicety. The spearman, while poising the weapon, held others in his
left hand, prepared for instant use: the spear, thus poised, seemed for a few seconds to spin,
and it would strike at sixty yards, with an unerring aim. Labillardière describes it well:
the warrior grasped it in the middle; raised it as high as his head; drew it towards himself
with a jerk, that gave a tremulous motion at the extremities, which accelerated its progress,
and tended to support it longer on the column of air; it was darted at 100 paces, and remained
in a horizontal position for three-fourths of the distance. The children were early trained
to the exercise: Lieutenant Breton saw a child, five years old, throw a stick through the ring
affixed to the wall of the gaol, with great precision.

A chief, confined in Hobart Town gaol, taken on the Shannon, exhibited these feats of quickness
and strength. He would spring up into the air five feet, and reel round and round, with uncommon
rapidity. He threw a broomstick, at twelve yards distance, through a hole in the sentry box,
of but little larger diameter; and a lath, cast at thirty yards, pierced a hat through and
through. They used no throwing stick, or sling.

In the estimation of Europeans, their practice in war was savage and cowardly: "they do not,
like an Englishman," complained a colonial writer, "give notice before they strike." The perfection
of war, in their esteem, was ambush and surprise; but an intelligent observer sometimes saw
considerable cleverness in their tactics. Mr. Franks was on horseback, driving cattle homeward:
he saw eight blacks forming a line behind him, to prevent his retreat; each with an uplifted
spear, besides a bundle in the left hand. They then dropped on one knee, still holding the
weapon in menace; then they rose and ran towards him in exact order: while they distracted
his attention by their evolutions, other blacks gathered from all quarters, and within thirty
yards a savage stood with his spear quivering in the air. This weapon, ten feet long, penetrated
the flap of the saddle, and the flesh of the horse four inches, which dropped on his hind quarters.
The rider was in despair; but the spear fell, and the animal recovered his feet and fled. The
servant, less fortunate than his master, was found some days after, slain. The attack was well
planned, and exhibited all the elements of military science!

A tribe, who attacked the premises of Mr. Jones, in 1819, at the Macquarie, were led by a chief
six feet high: he carried one spear, of a peculiar form, and no other kind of weapon: this
he did not use, but stood aloof from the rest, and issued his orders with great calmness, which
were implicitly obeyed. They formed themselves in a "half moon ring," and attacked the English
with great vigour. The chief was shot: they were struck with dismay, and endeavoured to make
him stand; "they made a frightful noise, looked up to heaven, and smote their breasts!"[31]

The wars among them latterly, provoked by driving one tribe on the boundaries of another, were
not infrequent; as everywhere, women were the cause and object of strife. The tribes to the
westward were the finer race: those from South Cape to Cape Grim, had better huts, and they
wore mocassins on travel. Those on the east of the Launceston road were confederate: towards
the last, the Oyster Bay tribe committed their children to the care of the Big River tribe,
many of whom had been slain by the western tribes, as well as by the English. It was this which
increased the difficulties of their conciliation: they had not only to be reconciled to the
English, but to each other. They were bold and warlike in their carriage, and when exhibiting
spear exercise, commanded the admiration of the spectator.

Agility and Dexterity.--Their skill was chiefly exerted in obtaining their food: they were
agile and dextrous. The opossum was hunted by the women, who by a glance discovered if the
animal were to be found in the tree. They ascended trees of a tremendous height: they first
threw round the trunk a rope, twice its girth, which they held in the centre, and by the left
end, in one hand: having cut the first notch for the toe, they raised themselves up by the
rope, in an attitude sufficiently perpendicular to carry the hatchet or stone on the head.
They then cut a second, and by a jerk of the bight of the rope, raised it up: thus, step by
step, they reached the branch, over which the loose end of the rope being cast, they were enabled
to draw themselves round. It is stated by Backhouse, that they only required these notches
at the bottom of the tree; and they dispensed with them as the bark became smooth, and the
diameter diminished. They ascended almost as rapidly as with a ladder, and came down more quickly.
When the ropes were of skin, or more perishable materials, the accidents must have been many
and terrible. This feat required considerable muscular strength, and in the weak produced great
physical exhaustion. They were swift of foot: when they possessed dogs, they ran nearly abreast
of them; stimulated them by imitating the cry of the kangaroo, and were generally in at the
death. Their former practice was to fire the brush-wood, in which the game had sought shelter,
and which they speared when driven out by the flames. This practice was wasteful; besides exposing
them to the charge of arson, when they were only following the customs of the chase.

Their ability to conceal themselves, assisted by their color, proved the quickness of their
eye, and the agility of their limbs. A shooting party approached a native camp near the Clyde,
and found they had just abandoned their half-cooked opossums and their spears: excepting a
small group of wattle bushes, at the distance of ten yards, the ground was free of all but
the lofty trees: the travellers immediately scoured this thicket, but on turning round they,
in great astonishment, discovered that opossums and spears were all gone. It was the work of
a moment, but traces of aborigines were unseen.[32]

Corrobories and Dances.--Their general assemblies were attended by great numbers: at these
meetings they raised large fires, and continued dancing till midnight. They first began their
movement round the pyre, with slow steps and soft tunes: as they advanced more quickly, their
voices became more sharp and loud: they closed in upon the fire, and leaping close to the flame
appeared in considerable peril. These movements they continued; shrieking and whooping until
thoroughly exhausted. It is hardly possible for the imagination to picture a scene more infernal.

A gentleman, on guard during the black war, watched a small group in the gaol yard round their
night fires. One of them raised his hands, and moved them slowly in a horizontal direction;
and spreading, as if forming an imaginary fan or quarter-circle: he turned his head from side
to side, raising one eye to the sky, where an eagle hawk was soaring. The action was accompanied
by words, repeated with unusual emotion: at length they all rose up together, and uttered loud
cries. The whole action had the appearance of an incantation.

The dances were various. The emu dance, was intended to represent the motions of that bird:
the horse dance, necessarily modern, was performed by their trotting after each other, in a
stooping posture, and holding the foremost by the loins: the thunder-and-lightning dance was
merely stamping the ground. Their amusements were childish, and boisterous; but they applauded
themselves with the invariable phrase, "narracoopa"--very good.

They felt the incumbrance of clothing, when exhibiting their feats: the permission to strip
was embraced with great gladness. They gradually wrought themselves into the most extravagant
excitement: their pleasure was in activity.

Language.--Their language varied: the four principal tribes had different dialects. When they
met at Flinders', communication was difficult, yet their songs were the same. The language
has never been reduced to rules, though vocabularies have been collected by Jorgenson, and
others. The Rev. Mr. Dove furnished some additional information; but though the specimens establish
an affinity in these dialects, the results are otherwise unimportant. The vowels greatly predominate:
the r is sounded rough, and lingering. The words are frequently liquid and melodious. At Flinders'
Island, the language was a mixture of several; broken English, New Holland, and Tasmanian words
formed the currency of the island. In English, they dropped the d and s; thus sugar is tugar,
and doctor is togata. As with other barbarians, who have enjoyed the benefit of our instructions,
the epithets of licentiousness and insult were most current, and most aptly applied. Strangers
to abstract ideas, their words expressed the most common objects, sensations, and wants. Their
songs, which reminded Labillardière of the music of the Arabs of Asia Minor, were exceedingly
soft and plaintive; their voices not wanting in melody. They repeated the same note in soft
and liquid syllables; descended to the second bar, and finished with a third above the key
note. They sometimes varied, by suddenly running into the octave. Their strains were considered,
by a Scotchman, a close resemblance to the Highland bagpipe. The stanzas they repeated again
and again: none have been translated, for which, it is said, they are unfit.[33]

Intellect.--Their intellectual character is low; yet not so inferior as often described. They
appeared stupid, when addressed on subjects which had no relation to their mode of life; but
they were quick and cunning within their own sphere. A country not producing any animal capable
of service; where nothing is sharper than stone; destitute of grain, and of fruits of any value,
could be inhabited only by a wandering race. Their locomotion sharpened their powers of observation,
without much increasing their ideas. In such circumstances, mind may degenerate, but it cannot
advance. Some colonists were recently startled, by the appearance of a white family from the
remote interior: they were found by a surveyor, who at first took them for savages; they had
the animal expression of the eye, which is so common to uncivilised people.

The inferiority of the aboriginal mind is not to be denied. Intellectual power is both hereditary
and improvable: the exaltation of a generation of men gives the infancy of the next a more
forward starting point--what was individual is diffused, until it becomes characteristic of
the race.

They were fond of imitation, and humour: they had their drolls and mountebanks: they were able
to seize the peculiarities of individuals, and exhibit them with considerable force.[34]

In several parts of the colony rude drawings have been discovered. Cattle, kangaroo, and dogs,
were traced in charcoal. These attempts were exceedingly rude, and sometimes the artist was
wholly unintelligible. At Belvoir Vale, the natives saw the Company's two carts, drawn by six
oxen: they drew on bark the wheels, and the drivers with their whips. They were the first that
ever passed that region.

Disposition.--They were cruel in their resentment; but not prone to violence: that they did
not shorten the sufferings of animals taken for food, will hardly be considered by sportsmen
decisive evidence against them. They were not ungrateful; especially for medical relief, which
appeared a favor more unequivocal than presents of food.

A little boy, captured by a surveyor in 1828, when seen, sprang into the water, where he remained
for a long time: at first, he was greatly alarmed, but soon became contented. He pointed to
the lady of the house as a lubra. Entering a room, where a young lady was seated, he was told
to kiss her: after long hesitation, he went up to her; laid his fingers gently on her cheek,
then kissed them, and ran out!

Some captives, taken by Mr. Batman, were lodged in the gaol: they became strongly attached
to the javelin man: they were treated by the gaoler with studious compassion, and they left
the prison with tears!

The English were seen by some friendly natives to draught the toad fish, which is poison, and
by which several have perished: the natives perceiving its preparation for food, endeavoured
to shew, by gestures, that it was not to be eaten, and exhibited its effects by the semblance
of death. Not very long after, a native was shewn a pistol, which a white man snapped at his
own ear; and who, giving the unfortunate black one shotted, encouraged him to perform the same
manoeuvre; he was thus murdered by his own hands. The natives were variable, from ignorance
and distrust; probably from mental puerility: thus, their war whoop and defiance were soon
succeeded by shouts of laughter.

Religious Ideas.--Their religious ideas were exceedingly meagre and uncertain. To Mr. Horton's
enquiries, in 1821, they answered, "don't know," with broad grins: he was probably not understood.
They appear to have had no religious rites, and few congenial ideas: they dreaded darkness,
and feared to wander from their fires: they recognised a malignant spirit, and attributed strong
emotions to the devil. The feats imputed to his agency, do not much differ from the sensations
of night-mare: they believed him to be white--a notion supported by very substantial reasons,
and suggested by their national experience: this idea must have been modern. They ascribed
extraordinary convulsions to this malignant power, and to his influence they traced madness.
Lord Monboddo might have contrived their account of the creation: they were formed with tails,
and without knee-joints, by a benevolent being: another descended from heaven, and compassionating
the sufferers, cut off the tail; and with grease softened the knees.

As to a future state, they expected to re-appear on an island in the Straits, and "to jump
up white men." They anticipated in another life the full enjoyment of what they coveted in
this. These scraps of theology, when not clearly European, are of doubtful origin: nothing
seems certain, except that they dreaded mischief, from demons of darkness. Though they had
no idols, they possessed some notions of statuary: it was sufficiently rude. They selected
stones, about ten inches high, to represent absent friends; one of greater dimensions than
common, Backhouse observed that they called Mother Brown.

Persons of sanguine minds are apt to attribute to them religious ideas, which they never possessed
in their original state. The notion of a spirit, however, exists on the continent: in this,
the Tasmanian black participated. Their ideas were extremely indefinite, and will not refute,
or much support the belief, that the recognition of a Divinity is an universal tradition.

The Sick.--They suffered from several diseases, which were often fatal. Rheumatism and inflammations
were cured by incisions: the loathsome eruption, called the native leprosy, they relieved by
wallowing in ashes: the catarrh was very destructive, in certain seasons; a whole tribe on
the Huon perished, except one woman. The native doctor said, that it was the devil that killed
them: the woman described the process by feigned coughing. Their surgery was simple: they cut
gashes with crystal. They treated a snake bite by boring the wound with a charred peg; stuffed
it with fur, and then singed off the surplus to the level of the skin. They had faith in charms:
thigh bones were especially useful, and were fastened on the head in a triangle: these relics
were found very effectual. There were some who practised more than others, and therefore called
doctors by the English: one of these feigned inspiration, and brandished his club. The sick
were often deserted: their tribes could neither convey them, nor wait for their recovery. Food
and a lenitive were left within their reach, and when able they followed their kinsmen; the
alternative is the terrible risk of a wandering life. This custom was modified by circumstances,
and sometimes by the relatives of the sufferer.

Like the natives of New South Wales, they called to each other, from a great distance, by the
cooey; a word meaning "come to me." The Sydney blacks modulated this cry, with successive inflexions;
the Tasmanian uttered it with less art. It is a sound of great compass. The English, in the
bush, adopt it: the first syllable is prolonged; the second is raised to a higher key, and
is sharp and abrupt.[35]

Funereal.--When they felt the approach of death, they were anxious to expire in the open air,
and requested to be carried forth, even from the houses erected for their use. They believed
that the spirit lingers in the body until sun-down. The French naturalist, Labillardière, first
noticed the burning of the dead. His account was ridiculed by the Quarterly Reviewers, who
suspected cannibalism; but there are proofs innumerable, that this was a practice of affection.
A group of blacks was watched, in 1829, while engaged in a funeral. A fire was made at the
foot of a tree: a naked infant was carried in procession, with loud cries and lamentations;
when the body was decomposed in the flames, the skull was taken up by a female,--probably the
mother. The skull was long worn wrapt in kangaroo skin: Backhouse observed a couple who carried,
alternately, this ghastly memento of their child: it is said, that they deposited several together,
in final resting places.

They were jealous of spectators, and took offence if they approached their dead. Bodies not
consumed, were placed in hollow trees, and closed in by underwood: decomposition being completed
in these natural tombs, the survivors carried away the bones. Backhouse saw a striking funeral:
a woman died; they built a pile of logs; laid the body thereon, and watched all night. At daybreak
they applied the brand; then covering their faces with the ashes, which became furrowed with
their tears, they sat down and lamented!

Just after the capture, an aborigine told his tribe that his death was at hand. He requested
them to prepare the wood for his obsequies, while he leaned against a tree, directing their
sad labors: he died that night! This is touching. A savage preparing for his funeral, with
a calm consciousness of his fate--midst the ruins of his fading race!

             *     *     *     *     *

In closing this mournful record, the reader is conscious that the history of the Tasmanian
is but the experience of myriads. As an exhibition of Providence, it fills us with astonishment;--of
human passions, with humiliation and sadness. The current of immigration will not be diverted
by abstract questions of human rights, nor will states model their policy to preserve the barbarian;
but the path of history is clear, and even self love, which may carefully sift evidence, must
not turn from the lessons it offers.

The original occupation of this country necessarily involved most of the consequences which
followed: was that occupation, then, just? The right of wandering hordes to engross vast regions--for
ever to retain exclusive property in the soil, and which would feed millions where hundreds
are scattered--can never be maintained. The laws of increase seem to suggest the right of migration:
neither nations nor individuals are bound to tarry on one spot, and die. The assumption of
sovereignty over a savage people is justified by necessity--that law, which gives to strength
the control of weakness. It prevails everywhere: it may be either malignant or benevolent,
but it is irresistible. The barbarian that cannot comprehend laws or treaties, must be governed
by bribes, or by force. Thus, that the royal standard was planted, need occasion no remorse;
but though the native had not exclusive natural rights, he possessed the attributes of man,
and the government was bound to ascertain his wants, and protect his interest in the country.
England, however, forgot the aborigina: she secured him no refuge--provided no interpreter
to his feelings; his language was unknown, and his testimony inadmissable.

The legal recognition of rights in the soil, pertaining to the native inhabitants of colonised
regions, is attended with some difficulty, and nowhere greater than among hunting tribes: their
actual possession is only definable, by admitting the wide boundaries of the chase. The Parliamentary
Committee, in a review of the whole question, did not recommend treaties with savages: the
terms would be liable to disputes, and a difference of interpretation would occasion distrust
and animosity. A middle course might, however, be open. The natives have an equitable lien
on the land, for which rulers who transfer its occupation are bound to provide effectively
and for ever. Instead of making the death of the native the release of private incumbrance;
instead of making it the constant interest, and daily effort of the settler, to drive him away,
it ought to have been the object of the crown to identify the life of the native with the welfare
of the intruder. In granting possession of lands, the terms might have given the settler a
claim for remission of price--or a pecuniary reward, payable out of the proceeds of land--for
every native child he might rear, and every family he might induce to choose him as their protector.
Thus the shepherd princes would have felt that their interests harmonised with the existence
of a race, now regarded with dislike and jealousy. The native police at Port Phillip, suggested
originally by Captain Maconochie, is an adoption of this principle: they are useful, and therefore
pains have been taken to attach them. It is in vain to make laws, and to issue proclamations
to shield the aborigines, unless they are identified with some local interest; and for this,
no sacrifice of the land revenue could be considered too great.

A youth, called Van Diemen, was nine years old when found in the wood, and adopted by Col.
Davey; he was subsequently taken to England by Mr. Kermode. He had been taught to read, and
could repeat several chapters of the Bible. He was remarkably keen and intelligent. [On his
return to this colony, he was cut off by consumption: at the post mortem it was found that
his lungs were nearly gone.] Mr. Kermode endeavoured to prevail with Lord Bathurst, to authorise
a grant of land; but Mr. Wilmot Horton, then Under Secretary, objected that there were millions
of British subjects, whose claims were of the same kind, and that the precedent would be inconvenient.
At the same time, men in chains were receiving grants of land, and emancipists as a matter
of course; but the minister was opposed to admit a claim founded on birth, orphanage, and civilisation,
lest it should multiply applicants. As if anything could have been more desirable to the philanthropist
and politician: who can wonder that convicts despised that which the ministers of the crown
repudiated? Excepting the often pernicious donatives, occasionally conferred, the aborigina
was treated only as a foreigner, a slave, and an enemy. Thus the order of Lord Hobart stood
alone: it was a record of intention, not a development of government. The ministry washed their
hands, and averted their eyes; and threw upon the colony the responsibility of inevitable crime.[36]

But the government of England, not only left undefined the obligations it seemed to confess:
it did more; it let loose on the shores of Tasmania its outcasts, its robbers, and its homicides;
it released their bonds, and sent them forth to contest with the native for the animals of
chase--to cross his path unwatched--to destroy him unpunished. Crimes of every kind were visited,
save this. For a word, or a look, the felon was brought to the triangle; but when he shot down
the native, and acquired distinction by his butcheries, justice became scrupulous: the laws
were silent--religion and humanity were silent; and the fallen black, like the uprooted forest,
was thought of as an encumbrance removed!

The state of the census was equally reprehensible: England not only forgot the prescriptions
of nature, and formed communities of men, but the inevitable consequence to the natives was
utterly neglected. It would be impossible even to hint the series of facts, which are authenticated
to the writer, and which strangely blended ferocity and lust. The sealer, or stockman, who
periled his life to accomplish the abduction of a native female, thought that danger but fairly
avenged by the destruction of her relatives! Thus far the government was remiss and culpable.
The crimes of individuals, without diminishing their guilt, must be traced to those general
causes, which are subject to the disposal of statesmen and legislators.

But when the colony was planted, and the people spread abroad, it was the duty of the crown
to protect its subjects of every class: it was the duty of its officers to arrest the arm of
the black man, however great the provocation that raised it. They could not stand by to investigate
causes; to divide between the two races the proportions of crime, while the innocent family
was exposed to violence. It was better that the blacks should die, than that they should stain
the settler's hearth with the blood of his children. In this view Colonel Arthur was right:
his estimate of the native character was not impartial, for he beheld it when it only appeared
detestable. He had no choice; he resolved to protect his countrymen.

It is common to speak of the guilt of this community; sometimes in variance with reason and
truth. That guilt belongs only to the guilty; it cannot contaminate those who were helpless
spectators, or involuntary agents. The doctrine of common responsibility, can only be applicable
where all are actors, or one is the representative of all. The colonist may say, "I owe no
reparation, for I have done the native no wrong; I never contemplated aiding in his destruction:
I have seen it with horror." May the lesson of his sufferings become the shield of his race!
Those who impute guilt to this colony, forget that its worst members are not stationary, and
that many have borne away their guilt with their persons. That Being, who makes requisition
for blood, will find it in the skirts of the murderer, and not on the land he disdained.

No man can witness the triumph of colonisation, when cities rise in the desert, and the wilderness
blossoms as the rose, without being gladdened by the change; but the question which includes
the fate of the aborigines,--What will become of them?--must check exultation. The black will
invade rights he does not comprehend; seize on stragglers from those flocks, which have driven
off his game; and wound the heel which yet ultimately treads him to the dust. Such is the process--it
is carelessly remarked, that the native is seen less often; that it is long since he ventured
to cross the last line, where death set up landmarks in the slain. At length the secret comes
out: the tribe which welcomed the first settler with shouts and dancing, or at worst looked
on with indifference, has ceased to live.

If the accounts of discoverers have been too flattering to the native character, they are explained
rather than contradicted by the early colonists. These describe, with exultation, their new
acquaintance, when writing to their friends: how peaceful, light-hearted, and obliging. They
are charmed by their simplicity; they sleep among them without fear: but these notes soon change;
and passing from censure to hatred, they speak of them as improvident, importunate, and instrusive;
as rapacious and mischievous; then as treacherous and blood-thirsty--finally, as devils, and
beasts of prey. Their appearance is offensive, their proximity obstructive: their presence
renders everything insecure. Thus the muskets of the soldier, and of the bandit, are equally
useful; they clear the land of a detested incubus.

It is not in the nature of civilisation to exalt the savage. Chilled by the immensity of the
distance, he cannot be an equal: his relation to the white can only be that of an alien, or
a slave. By the time astonishment subsides, the power of civilised men is understood, and their
encroachment is felt. Fine houses garrison his country, enclosures restrict his chase, and
alternately fill him with rage and sadness. He steals across the land he once held in sovereignty,
and sighs for the freedom and fearlessness of his ancestors: he flies the track of his invaders,
or surprises them with his vengeance;--a savage he was found, and a savage he perishes!

REMARKS ON THE CAUSES OF THE BURNING OF THE DEAD BY THE VAN DIEMENESE.

[From Peron's Voyage, 1802.]

"On a wide swarth of verdure (at Maria Island), beneath some antique casuarinæ, rose a cone,
formed coarsely of the bark of trees inserted at bottom in the ground, and terminated at top
by a large band of similar materials. Four long poles stuck in the earth, sustained and served
for all the pieces of bark to lean against; these four poles seemed also calculated to ornament
the building; for, instead of uniting all their upper extremity like the bark, and so forming
a simple cone, they crossed each other about the middle, and then extended without the roof
of the ornament. From this disposition resulted a sort of inverted tetracdic pyramid in the
upper part opposed to the cone below. This contrast of form in the two parts of the building
had a somewhat graceful effect, which was increased by the following additions:--With each
of the four sides of the pyramid corresponded a wide strip of bark, the two bent extremities
of which were at the bottom bound together by the large band, which, as I before noticed, united
all the pieces of bark at the top of the cone: it follows that each of these four strips formed
a sort of oval, least rounded at its inferior extremity, and widest and most rounded above;
and as each of these ovals corresponded with one of the sides of the inverted pyramid, it is
not difficult to conceive the elegance and picturesque effect of the plan.

"After looking some time at this monument, the use of which I vainly strove to fathom, I soon
resolved to push my examination to a greater length: I removed several thick pieces of bark,
and readily penetrated to the interior of the building. The whole of the upper part was vacant:
at the bottom was a large flattened cone formed of a fine light grass, laid with much care
in conuntric and very deep strata. With my doubt respecting the purpose of this, my curiosity
increased. Eight small bent sticks crossing each other at the summit of this cone of verdure,
served to preserve its form; each of these sticks had its two extremities fastened in the earth,
and kept firm in their position by a large piece of flattened granite. So much care led me
to expect some important discovery; nor was I mistaken. Scarcely had I raised the upper layers
of turf, ere I perceived a large heap of white ashes, apparently collected together with nicety:
thrusting my hand into the midst of these, I felt something hard, withdrawing which, I found
it to be the jaw-bone of a man, and shreds of flesh still adhering to it. I shuddered with
horror. Still, reflecting a little on all I had observed in the composition of the monument,
I soon experienced sensations widely different from those I felt at first: the verdure, the
flowers, the protecting trees, the deep bed of herbage which covered the ashes, all united
to convince me that I had here discovered a tomb.... Succeeding ideas caused new reflections:
I asked myself, 'What can have originated this custom of burning the dead? Separated from the
rest of the world, and at its farthest extremity, these people cannot have adopted it from
communication with others; it must irrefutably therefore be an idea of their own. But, in that
case, wherefore prefer this mode of disposing of the dead? Can the preference be the effect
of chance? Or does there exist some physical reason for it, dependent on the nature of things,
or the particular social organization of these men?' ...

"This last measure is to burn it. Every thing concurs to facilitate this expedient; every thing
in this is accordant with the mode of life of the inhabitant of these shores, as well as the
circumstances in which he is placed. Fire, that powerful and terrible agent, their recourse
on so many and such valuable occasions, cannot fail of exciting among these people some of
those sentiments of veneration, consecrated with the majority of ancient nations by such numerous
institutions and religious monuments. Without being deified, perhaps, as formerly it was, fire
in these countries is regarded as something superior to the other works of nature; and these
first ideas will probably have contributed not in a trivial degree to the determination of
burning their dead. The requisite materials for the purpose were at hand: neither calculation
nor labor were required for putting the plan in execution; no instrument was necessary; and
it prevented taint and the consequent infection. But a few remains of bones would be here after
the operation, to cover which the ashes of the fire would be sufficient. The whole ceremony
required only a few hours; and prejudices tended to render it reputable and sacred. Thus then
this practice of burning the dead does not appear to be the effect of mere chance: accordant
with physical and local circumstances, these evidently were the origin of the custom."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 27: Despatch to Lord Goderich, 6th April, 1833.]

[Footnote 28: The following is worth remembering, as a caution to reviewers, as well as philosophers:--"At
Port Dalrymple, in Van Diemen's Land, there was every reason to believe, the natives were unacquainted
with the use of canoes; a fact, extremely embarrassing to those who indulge themselves in speculating
on the genealogy of natives: because it reduces them to the necessity of supposing, that this
isolated people swam over from the main land, or that they were aboriginal."--Rev. Sidney Smith,
Edin. Rev., 1803.]

[Footnote 29: "In many instances (it is remarked by Count Strzelecki, p. 355) the facial angle
is more acute in the white man: the superciliary ridge, the centres of ossification of the
frontal bones, and the ridge of the occipital one, more developed; and the maxilliary more
widely expanded, than in the skulls of aborigines."]

[Footnote 30: Veteran novel readers will be delighted to find, that these black lovers were
united by an event, which constitutes the most touching artifice of fashionable fiction.]

[Footnote 31: Report of Mr. Jones to Governor Arthur.]

[Footnote 32: "I remember a fellow of the 'Grimaldi' breed: he undertook, on a fine summer's
evening, to place himself among the tree stumps of a field, so that not two of a large party
should agree as to his identity. He reclined like a Roman on his elbow, projected his arm as
if a small branch, and drew down his head. No one could tell which was the living stump, and
were obliged to call him to come out and shew himself."--Dr. Ross's "Fourteen years ago."]

[Footnote 33: Song of Ben Lomond:--

    "Ne popula raina pogana
    Thu me gunnea
    Naina kaipa raina pogana
    Naara paara powella paara.
          Ballahoo,
          Hoo hoo,
          War whoop (very gutteral)."

--Tas. Journal.]

[Footnote 34: This is common to the race: there is one now at Geelong, whose imitations enabled
the spectator at once to guess the person intended.]

[Footnote 35: A female, born on this division of the globe, once stood at the foot of London
bridge, and cooeyed for her husband, of whom she had lost sight, and stopped the passengers
by the novelty of the sound; which, however, is not unknown in certain neighbourhoods of the
metropolis. Some gentlemen, on a visit to a London theatre, to draw the attention of their
friends in an opposite box, called out cooey; a voice, in the gallery, answered--"Botany Bay!"]

[Footnote 36: "You are to endeavour, by every means in your power, to open an intercourse with
the natives, and to conciliate their good will--enjoining all persons under your government
to live in amity and kindness with them; and if any person shall exercise any acts of violence
against them, or shall wantonly give them any interruption in the exercise of their several
occupations, you are to cause such offender to be brought to punishment, according to the degree
of the offence."--Lord Hobart's instructions to Lieutenant-Governor Collins.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

TRANSPORTATION.

TRANSPORTATION.

SECTION I.

Transportation, considered not as a question of national policy but as a fact, demands a place
in this record. It will be our object to ascertain those incidents which illustrate its local
operation--to trace events that have attended the repeated changes in its colonial spirit.
It belongs to the British statesman to scan its effects on the population of the empire; but
fairly to exhibit its Australasian aspect, will not be without utility to the colonies themselves.

Although a separate relation will derange the thread of Tasmanian history, the reader may be
compensated by a view more perspicuous and useful.

Thousands of British offenders, who by their exile and sufferings have expiated their crimes,
trod almost alone the first stages of Austral colonisation, and amidst toils and privations,
initiated a progress now beheld by nations with curiosity and admiration. Economists still
weigh in uncertain balances the loss and the gain, and the legislator longs for facts which
may decide the perpetual conflict between them who denounce and those who approve this expedient
of penal legislation. It is not the intention of this narrative to anticipate conclusions:
its design will be accomplished when the story of the past is truly told.

Exile, the penalty denounced by the Almighty against the first homicide, was among the earliest
affixed by man to lesser crimes, or whenever the presence of the offender endangered the public
repose. The Roman law permitted the accused to withdraw from impending judgment by a voluntary
exile. Such was the practice in the time of Cicero. When men sought to avoid bondage or death,
adjudged by the laws, they had recourse to exile as to an altar; nor did they forfeit their
civic standing, except with their lives.[37]

At a later period, under the imperial government, the islands of the Mediterranean became places
of exile: several thousand Jews were banished from Rome to the Island of Sardinia.[38]

Transportation was unknown to the common law of England, but abjuration of the realm, which
resembled the Roman practice, was not infrequent: "it was permitted," said Sir Edward Coke,
"when the felon chose rather to perdere patriam quam vitam,"--to lose his country rather than
his life. The culprit having found sanctuary within the precincts of a church, took oath to
abjure the realm: assuming the character of a pilgrim, he received a cross to protect him on
his journey. By the Act of James I. the privilege of sanctuary was taken away,[39] and thus
the abjuration, founded upon it, virtually abolished.

The Spanish was the first Christian nation which to banishment united penal labor. Columbus
found it difficult to allure adventurers: to work the mines, was necessary to gratify his patrons,
and he prevailed on Ferdinand to furnish colonists by clearing the galleys. These recruits
attended the great discoverer on his third expedition (1498): they largely contributed to the
disorders which vexed the infant settlement, and aroused the resentment of the unfortunate
Indians.[40]

Banishment was first formally recognised by English law in the reign of Elizabeth (39 Eliz.
cap. 4).[41] It was enacted, that "dangerous rogues, and such as will not be reformed of their
roguish course of life, may lawfully by the justices in their quarter sessions be banished
out of the realm, and all the dominions thereof, and to such parts beyond the seas as shall
for that purpose be assigned by the privy council." Return was made felony without benefit
of clergy. A brand was affixed upon the shoulder, of the breadth of an English shilling, with
a great Roman R upon the iron: "for a perpetual mark upon such rogue, during his or her life."[42]

Until commerce had extended the knowledge of distant parts, and the constant publication of
correspondence with colonies made their affairs familiar, imagination depicted them as desolate
and frightful. The London apprentice and the plough boy, thought of exile as a severe calamity.
The love of home was rendered more intense, by the universal wilderness imagined beyond it:
thus, loss of country was deemed a penalty fully equal to ordinary offences, and more severe
than any domestic form of punishment short of the scaffold.

"Duri est non desiderare patriam. Cari sunt parentes; cari liberi, propinqui, familiares; sed
omnes omnium caritates patria una complexa est: pro qua quis bonus dubitet mortem oppetere?"

It is to James I. that the British nation and the colonists owe the policy, whether salutary
or baneful, of sending convicts to the plantations: "the good sense of those days justly considered
that their labor would be more beneficial to an infant settlement, than their vices could be
pernicious."[43] James directed the sheriff to deliver, and the governor and court of Virginia
to receive one hundred prisoners, included in the definition of rogues and dangerous persons,
and compelled the proprietors of that colony to become agents in their deportation.

The Lord Chief Justice Kelyng stated, that about the time of the restoration it became customary
for a prisoner within benefit of clergy to procure from the king "a conditional pardon," and
to send him beyond the seas to serve five years in some of the king's plantations; there to
have land assigned him, according to the usage of those plantations for servants after their
time expired.[44] A needless delay of departure, or a return within the period appointed, made
the instrument of pardon void.

In the reign of Charles II. an act passed (Car. ii. 13, 14. cap. 2. s. 1), "for preventing
dangers that may arise from certain persons called quakers," which authorised their transportation
beyond the seas. Thus, the practice was not new: after the battle of Worcester, the parliament
transported the royalists, and in the mutations of power all parties in their turn transported
each other.

It had not been unusual for persons to sell themselves for a term of years. After the dissolution
of the army of the commonwealth, many, to escape danger and poverty, sold their liberty to
others, who carried them to the plantations.[45]

After the defeat of Monmouth, a letter was addressed by James II. to the governor of Virginia,
which after reciting that the royal clemency had been extended to many rebellious subjects
by ordering their transportation, required the governor to propose a bill to the assembly to
prevent their redemption, by money or otherwise, until the expiration of ten years. The assembly
declined to carry out the royal vengeance, and received the exiles with kindness.[46]

In 1717, transportation assumed a prominent place in English jurisprudence. An act of parliament
(4 Geo. i.) recited that the customary punishments were inefficient, and that the "labor of
criminals in the colonies would benefit the nation;" and mentioned the "frequent failure of
those who undertook to transport themselves." Under this law, they were committed to the charge
of ship-masters, who gave bonds for their transit; and who were obliged to produce certificates
that they had disposed of their cargo according to law. It is said that £40,000 per annum were
raised by the contractors, carrying annually two thousand prisoners, whom they sold for £20
each.[47] For a long time these importations were highly acceptable; the demand for labor reconciling
the colonists to the attendant evils. The object of the law was to exile offenders from the
mother country, and bondage in America was simply intended to indemnify its cost. It was in
the power of the captains to set them free, or a friendly agent by appearing as a purchaser
might release them.[48] When landed, they were sold by auction to the colonists, for the term
of their sentence; and even the royal pardon did not cancel an obligation to serve--except
by the repayment of the purchase money to the planter.

This course had many inconveniencies, and led to atrocious crimes. The treatment of the convict
depended on the individual who bought his service: the state imposed but slight responsibilities,
and the colonial control was regulated by local laws.

Many notices in annals of those times indicate that the practice of kidnapping, especially
of youth, was not uncommon. Johnson, in his immortal memoir of the poet, Savage, numbers in
the catalogue of his mother's cruelties, an attempt to send him captive to the plantations,
and to sell him for a slave. It happened that Mr. Crispe's office seemed invitingly open to
give me a welcome reception. Free labor grew plentiful, and the colonial reputation was compromised:
nor were these the sole reasons for opposition; the management of negro slaves became a capital
branch of domestic industry; the prestige of color was endangered by the subjection of white
men to the discipline of slavery.

The practice of transportation did not terminate until the era of independence. The Canadas
remained loyal; but the ministers of the day did not deem it prudent to reward their submission
with the stigma of transportation.

Franklin, when the colonists were about to cast off the imperial rule of Great Britain, complained
of this system: he compared it to pouring "cargoes of rattlesnakes on the shores of England."
He, however, maintained that this description of exiles formed but a small proportion of the
American people; that of one million, eighty thousand only had been brought over the ocean,
and of these one-eighth only were convicts. In reference to the number transported to America,
the accounts of the British and American writers considerably differ. None were sent to the
New England colonies. Jefferson, during his diplomatic residence in France, furnished a statement
for the Encyclopédie Méthodique, in which he asserted that the convict element of the American
population was too small to deserve enumeration. He estimated the total number at 2,000, and
their descendants at 4,000, in 1785, or something more than one-thousandth part of the entire
people. This calculation has been, perhaps justly, charged with partiality; but it is useless
to meet error by conjecture.[50] This obvious topic of sarcasm was early adopted. Party writers
poisoned the shafts of political warfare, by references to the convict element of the trans-atlantic
population: "their Adam and Eve emigrated from Newgate,"[51]--"their national propensities
to fraud, they inherited from their convict ancestors,"--"they are the offspring of convicts,
and they have retained the disposition of their felon progenitors." Such were the sayings of
critics, lords, and statesmen: it was thus they described a people, who among their forefathers
can enumerate heroes and saints; who, flying from the scourge of bigotry and despotism, laid
the foundation of an empire. Can we expect more complacency?

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 37: Oration, pro A. Coesin.]

[Footnote 38: Tacitus, ann. 285.]

[Footnote 39: Discourse, by the Right Hon. Wm. Eden, on Banishment.]

[Footnote 40: Robertson's History of America.]

[Footnote 41: See Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. iv. c. 31.]

[Footnote 42: Rastall's Statutes, p. 419.]

[Footnote 43: Chalmers.]

[Footnote 44: Eden's Discourse.]

[Footnote 45: Sir Joshua Child's Discourses on Trade, 1670.]

[Footnote 46: Letter from James II., in the colonial-office: quoted by Chalmers.]

[Footnote 47: Introduction to Phillip's Voyages.]

[Footnote 48: See Bentham's Letter to Lord Pelham.]

[Footnote 49: Vicar of Wakefield.]

[Footnote 50: Dr. Lang, on whose quotation (from the Memoirs of Jefferson, vol. i. p. 406)
the above is given, would make the total number to be 50,000--a vast difference!]

SECTION II.

During and subsequent to the American war, the prisons of Great Britain were crowded. A distemper,
generated in the damp and foetid atmosphere of gaols, carried off thousands: to be charged
with an offence, was to be exposed to the risk of a malady generally fatal. Sometimes, it passed
beyond the precincts of prisons: at Taunton, the judges and other officers of the court, and
hundreds of the inhabitants, perished.

Howard, after spending a large portion of his life in retirement and devotion, was chosen sheriff
of Bedfordshire. He exposed the sufferings which he witnessed; and accelerated transportation,
by revealing the secrets of the prison house. It is needless to describe his labors--they belong
to all nations: he reproved kings, and received the blessings of thousands ready to perish;
and he lost his life in the service of mankind.[52]

The attention awakened by Howard, the philanthropist, led to the general improvement of prisons
(1779). A variety of projects were suggested for the disposal of prisoners: some it was proposed
to confine in dock-yards, salt works, mines, or where concentrated labour might be possible.
Mr. Eden, at first, suggested that enormous offenders should be sent to the Mahomedan ports,
and sold for the redemption of Christian slaves, or be employed on the coasts of Africa, on
small islands, for the benefit of navigation.[53] It was recommended by a committee of the
House of Commons to transport criminals to the coast of Africa and the East Indies. These plans
were effectually resisted, or failed of their design.

Judge Blackstone and Mr. Eden contrived a scheme, in concert with Howard, which they embodied
in the "Hard Labor Bill." Its object was twofold: to establish labor houses all over England,
and to regulate the employment of convicts on board the hulks. This measure was published preparatory
to its being submitted to parliament, and fell into the hands of Bentham. Hailing the movement
as fraught with important improvements, he produced his Panopticon, which he described as applicable
to all houses of industry, and wherever inspection is constantly required. The plan exhibits
remarkable ingenuity: the separation being made consistent with continual oversight, and an
economy of space with health and exercise. The design of the building itself is circular: the
external area cut up into angles, and separated by walls running to a common centre. The interior
is formed of a succession of circles, not inaptly compared by the satirical opponents of the
scheme to a spider's web.[54] He afterwards accompanied his plans with minute definitions of
the objects and methods of penal coercion.

Sir John Parnell, chancellor of the Irish exchequer, Mr. Pitt and Lord Melville of the English
ministry, were anxious to establish the panopticon system in their respective countries. The
design was not formally abandoned until 1813, when the erection of the Millbank Penitentiary,
extinguished the scheme of Bentham. He had written political articles offensive to the court:
George III. had attempted to refute his opinions, and cherished towards him the antipathy of
a rival. A contract was formed with Bentham, to erect and conduct his panopticon: he had received
possession of a spot of land assigned for the purpose, and nothing was wanting but the royal
signature to his official appointment. His hopes were finally crushed by the obstinacy of the
inexorable king.[55]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 51: Quarterly Review, vol. ii. p. 322.]

[Footnote 52: As a congregational dissenter, he was liable to a fine of £500, for not taking
the sacramental test. It is some credit to human nature, that he was not interrupted or punished
in his career of charity.]

[Footnote 53: Eden's Discourse on Banishment.]

[Footnote 54: Quarterly Review, 1822.]

[Footnote 55: Dr. Bowring's account, received from Bentham in 1824. In 1813, Jeremy Bentham,
on account of penitentiary, £23,578.--Par. Pap.]

SECTION III.

Whatever advantages were supposed to pertain to a system of domestic punishment, it was opposed
by formidable difficulties. To Bentham's system it was objected, that it required a supervision
practically unattainable. The enthusiasm, ability, and integrity of the projector, it was alleged,
would be probably confined to himself; and although the better plan, while under his eye, it
would prove of all the most dangerous and inefficient, when directed by the unskilful and corrupt.[56]
Nor did it prevent the return of the offender to society, and thus a relapse into crime.

The large preliminary outlay required to test the scheme of Bentham, which exceeded his first
calculations, was urged against its trial, and its complicated details wearied the attention
of the county magistrates. They preferred transportation, and cheerfully resigned the offender
to the good or ill-fortune of his colonial career.

These views were strengthened by the increasing aversion to capital punishments. To detain
a criminal for life seemed cruel to himself, and to release him would be perilous to the community.
His treatment while in bonds, would vary with the temper of individuals entrusted with his
punishment. This, Bentham himself confessed: he observed--"different tempers prescribe different
measures of security and indulgence. Some forget that a convict in prison is a sensitive being;
others that he is put in there for punishment. Some grudge him every gleam of comfort or alleviation
of misery, to which his situation is susceptible; to others every little privation, every little
unpleasant feeling, every unaccustomed circumstance, every necessary point of coercive discipline,
presents matter for a charge of inhumanity."[57]

To American transportation, the following is a summary of his objections. 1. It was unequal:
a man who had money might buy off the servitude. Again, with regard to banishment, it was unequal:
some would have been glad to go by choice, others would rather die. 2. It was unexemplary:
what the convict suffered, be it much or little, was unknown. 3. It was unfrugal: it occasioned
great waste of life in the mode, and of money in the expenses of conveyance. 4. It did answer
in some degree, in disabling the offender from doing further mischief: yet it has always been
easier for a man to return from transportation than to escape from prison. 5. It answered,
every now and then, the purposes of reformation pretty well; but not so well upon the whole,
under the variable and uncertain direction of a private master, whose object was his own profit,
as it might be expected to answer under regulations concerted by the united wisdom of the nation.[58]
In these objections to American transportation the colonists will recognise familiar sounds--the
chief elements of the arguments, in times both remote and recent, against the practice of transportation.

The worst class of criminals were often found in London, before their first sentence had expired.
Many suffered capitally for this offence. Before the practice of contracting with shippers,
political offenders preferred the continent of Europe to the hardships of America. It was made
felony, without benefit of clergy (20 Geo. ii.), for rebels under sentence of transportation
to reside either in France or Spain; and the inhuman penalty was denounced against their friends
who might correspond with them in any form. When the crown carried out the sentence, the offender's
return was still capital, and though unpopular, the guilty rarely escaped the penalty on conviction.

When this colony was established, the chief towns of Great Britain were haunted by innumerable
thieves, who were organised for the purposes of robbery. In London armed men assailed passengers
by night, and even by day. The arrest of robbers was accompanied with considerable danger,
and it was not until towards the close of the eighteenth century that the military guard ceased
to attend executions. A vast multitude of persons had degenerated into a robber caste. They
lodged under the arches of bridges, or nestled in nooks or corners, wherever they could burrow.
The districts of the city occupied by the better class of society, seemed but a small portion
of the metropolis--like islands in a sea of vice and destitution. There were numerous places
of savage amusement and small gambling houses; and young men of family, hanging loose on the
world, not unfrequently became amateur adventurers in crime. The populace felt no aversion
to a highwayman of spirit. The pursuit of criminals became a voluntary and profitable calling,
and offenders against the laws were encouraged and sheltered, until they were ripe for the
executioner.

Every part of London was the scene of executions: malefactors were hung in chains on every
common and way-side. The populace treated the culprit with cheers or hisses, according to their
view of his crime. Many wore a white cockade in their hats, in token of their innocence, when
they were carried in procession to the scaffold.[59]

To compensate for the feebleness of the police, and the popular sympathy with crime, the crown
paid £40 for each capital conviction. In 1796, a conspiracy was developed, which led to the
legal slaughter of seventy persons, at a profit to the conspirators of £2,800. In 1818, the
legislature reluctantly terminated this traffic in blood.[60]

Thus, after much discussion, the plan of a new penal settlement was finally preferred: denominated,
in the official correspondence, "the improved Colony of New South Wales."[61] In dedicating
his work to Thomas Townsend, Viscount Sydney, Collins ascribes the establishment of the colony
to that nobleman. "To your patriotism" he writes, "the plan presented a prospect of political
and commercial advantages." It was expected by Collins, that the colony would prove a valuable
nursery for soldiers and seamen.

The territorial seal provided by the crown, stamped on the instruments of government the primary
design: on the obverse, the royal arms and title; but on the reverse, convicts were represented
landing, received by Industry, who, surrounded by her attributes--a bale of merchandise, a
pick-axe and shovel--released them from their fetters, and pointed them to oxen ploughing.
The legend was appropriate: "Sic fortis Etruria crevit."[62]

"He who lives among a civilised people, may estimate the labor by which society has been brought
into such a state, by reading in the annals of Botany Bay, the account of a whole nation exerting
itself to floor the government-house. Yet time shall come, when some Botany Bay Tacitus shall
record the crimes of an emperor lineally descended from a London pickpocket."[63]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 56: Introduction to Phillip's Voyages.]

[Footnote 57: Bentham's Works, part iii. p. 122.]

[Footnote 58: Bentham's Works, part iii. p. 7.]

[Footnote 59: London, in the Eighteenth Century, by Charles Knight.]

[Footnote 60: A bill was brought into parliament by Mr. Bennet: it was, however, maintained
that the total abolition of such rewards would be pernicious. The heir at law of a person killed
in pursuit of a highwayman, was still entitled to £40 and a Tyburn ticket, which exempted the
holder from serving on a jury, and other civil liabilities.]

[Footnote 61: Par. Papers: quoted by Bentham, p. 174.]

[Footnote 62: Collins, vol. i. p. 179.]

SECTION IV.

The convicts first sent to New Holland, entered on the voyage with dread. The letters they
addressed to their friends, while the fleet lay at anchor, were examined by the officers: they
were filled with lamentations. They deeply deplored, that the distance of their exile cut off
the hope of return; the perils of so long a voyage alone seemed frightful: should they reach
the shores of New Holland, they expected to be destroyed by savages, or to pine away in want.
The females seemed least to fear their banishment; and while several of the men were deeply
moved, a spectator, who curiously remarked the mental influence of their prospects, saw only
one woman weep.[64]

When the ocean had often been traversed by convict ships, these vague terrors declined; but
the order, comfort, and security which now prevail, were little known. The freight was of such
importance, that the masters were tempted to defraud the prisoners of water, and even of food;
confiding in their means to silence or compensate the sufferers, when in sight of port, or
to satisfy the government. So slightly considered was this species of fraud, or so useful to
colonial traders, that the magistrates held the payment of a gratuity to be a bar to further
inquiry.[65] The convicts were thus exposed to severe, and even dangerous privations. Scurvy,
a malady often in those days fatal to half a ship's crew, broke down the strength of men emaciated,
dispirited, and diseased: many perished by the way, and a much larger number arrived unfit
for labor, and a public burden.

The management of a convict ship legally vested in the captain: his duty contemplating nothing
more than a safe arrival. The personal government of the prisoners was confided to the surgeon,
subject however to the discipline of the ship, of which the captain was exclusive judge. The
health of the company was often sacrificed to the security of the vessel: the prisoners suspected
of piratical intentions, were battened down and forbidden exercise, lest they should rise upon
the crew. From the first, the officers in charge claimed a right to inflict corporal punishment;
but, up to 1823, without the sanction of law. By the act then passed, power to order punishment
was confided to the surgeon-superintendent, with the concurrence of the captain; who was intrusted
with a veto, and was bound to enter his assent in the log-book, with the nature of the offence
and extent of the infliction.[66]

Apprehensions of mutiny were much more common, when transportation to New Holland was recent,
than experience has justified. On the slightest alarm, the prisoners were loaded with chains,
fastened to ring-bolts attached to the ship's sides. Perhaps, no vessel ever crossed the Line
without some plot, rumoured or real; but the most ordinary precautions have been found usually
sufficient to detect and explode them: their inventors have often been their discoverers. The
prisoners, commonly distrustful of each other, shrank from the confidence required to plan
and execute a revolt. But when timid officers were in charge, they sometimes adopted restrictions
severely oppressive; and which men of more courage and experience perceive to be needless.

During the war, the deportation of prisoners was attended with special difficulties: no ship's
company were less likely to support the flag of their country. They were often delayed until
a convoy could attend them. These hindrances were frequent, when this colony was founded. Both
male and female prisoners were commonly forwarded together: the officers and soldiers selected
companions for the voyage, and a sentence of transportation included prostitution. It is not
incredible that modest women rejected life on such terms, or preferred a public execution to
the ignominy of a floating brothel. These practices were first tolerated as inevitable, and
afterwards justified as politic. No conspiracy could be concealed, while the women were paramours
and spies; and, when long detained, the population of the ship considerably augmented before
she dropped anchor. The government of the vessel was not less severe than its aspect was licentious.[67]

Thus the abuses which, during the war, penetrated every branch of public business, rioted in
the convict ship; whilst the contractors, who engaged to convey the prisoners at a price, snatched
a profit from the subsistence stipulated by the crown. Malignant fevers, brought from the hulks
or prisons, propagated in the stagnant atmosphere, and, when combined with low and crude diet,
more than decimated the list. These effects of official negligence were early apparent. The
second fleet lost nearly one-fifth of the whole, either on the voyage, or shortly after the
arrival. Of the previous expedition, the loss was trifling.[68] It was fitted out with integrity,
surpassing the custom of the times, or the pioneers of the colony might have perished on a
barren shore.

Captain Parker, of H. M. S. Gordon, detected this peculation: he traced the unusual mortality
to the frauds of the officers, whose subduction from the standard allowance had "starved the
prisoners to death;" but it was not till many years after, that the humanity of ministers interposed
effectual regulations. The numbers who perished on board the General Hewitt, the Surry, and
the Three Bees in 1814, forced the attention of the local government to the subject; and on
the report of Surgeon Redfern, great improvements were adopted.[69] The dispatch of vessels
without regard to the season, brought the prisoners within the cold latitudes, and exposed
them to the southern winds in the winter; and thinly clad, and enervated by the heat of the
tropics, they were crowded below, or shivering on the deck. A supply of warm clothing, and
the choice of the proper period of sailing, greatly mitigated the voyage; and the constant
examination of the diet, samples of which were preserved, checked the avarice which cost so
many lives, and had thus led to atrocious crimes. It is humiliating to find, at every step,
the traces of wrong: the comforts supplied the prisoners by their friends, were often stolen
by the seamen: the pledges lodged in their hands were not restored: boxes were pillaged, and
the trifles furnished by the self-sacrifice of a broken-hearted parent, became the spoil of
the assignees of public vengeance. These evils were aggravated by the delay of the voyage,
to subserve the commercial speculations of the surgeons, who, beyond the general gains of merchandise,
were allowed a large remission of the customs.

Dr. Bromley, who superintended the transit of prisoners on several occasions during the first
quarter of the century, availed himself largely of these trading privileges. Thus he landed,
free of duty, at the close of one voyage, 150 gallons of spirits, one hogshead of wine, and
ten baskets of tobacco, beside a shipload of women. This profitable form of investment excited
no local complaint, and implied no disgrace.

The female convict ships continued under the same system of management, until some flagrant
instances induced the Board of Admiralty to check the grossness of vice. Of vessels remembered
for their pollution, the Friendship and Janus are distinguished: the keys of the prison were
accessible during the night: the conspiracy reached from the cabin to forecastle: the officers
were libertines themselves, or, even when their conduct was least equivocal, it was difficult
to obstruct irregularities: not even bars and bolts resisted the ingress of forbidden guests.
The wooden barriers, which covered the entrance, were displaced by some traitress within, who
left no protection to her companions but the point of honor.

The first who improved the discipline of the convict ships, were Captain Brown and Dr. Reed,
of the Morley: they endeavoured, by precept and example, to inculcate morality. Coercion had
been found ineffectual, and the women, when restricted, filled the vessel with clamour and
profaneness; but these gentlemen adopted a system of mental influence, and their prisoners,
whatever was their subsequent conduct, were far superior to their predecessors. The result
of this instance led to a permanent amelioration, and proved what had hitherto been doubted--that
even the worst societies can be controlled, by those who unite a sense of virtue with official
authority.[70]

The safety ascribed to the system of prostitution, was but an apology for vice, and the voyage
of the Jane Shore dissolved the illusion. The persuasion of the women accomplished what the
male prisoners rarely attempted, and when on their passage to the colonies have never been
able to effect. The soldiers and sailors, seduced by their caresses, seized the vessel, and
having shot the captain and the chief officer, steered into a South American port. Once only,
did a piratical plot assume a serious form. The prisoners by the Chapman devised a capture;
but the report of the design being communicated, the guard was prepared for resistance. A deadly
fire covered the deck with carnage: several were precipitated into the sea. The sanguinary
conflict, which might have been prevented by timely precautions, obtained for the Chapman the
popular prefix by which it is distinguished.[71] On one occasion, a vessel was in imminent
danger, through the foolish incaution of the guard. It was the custom to discharge the fire-arms
at sunrise, and to load them at noon: the interval seemed to offer the fairest prospect of
success, and the prisoners extensively joined in the conspiracy; but they were overheard in
conversation by a soldier standing at the hatchway: the ringleaders were seized, and the plot
defeated.

During the shorter voyages, from port to port, such accidents have been much more common, although
rarely successful. Knatchbull, a relative of the eminent Kentish family, and formerly an officer
in the navy, enticed his fellow prisoners to attempt the capture of the vessel which conveyed
them: but his device, to poison all but the conspirators with arsenic, was denounced.[72]

The prisoners sent down from Sydney to Van Diemen's Land, were conveyed in small crafts and
small numbers, and without much regard to their health; but as an example of wretchedness,
nothing could exceed the usual passage from Hobart Town to Macquarie Harbour. The unhappy men,
often destitute of clothing, were placed in the hold of a vessel, without bedding or blankets,
and were exposed, sometimes for five or six weeks, to the chills of a wintry voyage: on one
such, there were thirty-five men, who had but four blankets among them; and one was found without
any other covering than his shirt, in which plight he had been forwarded from the gaol.[73]

The surgeon-superintendent enters on his office at the same moment with the guard: his duties
are multiform--the magistrate, the chaplain, the mentor, and the physician. The surgeons are
usually popular with the prisoners, and the penal administration with which they are entrusted,
is generally the most disguised. Educated men, they are not commonly haughty and capricious:
they are able to distinguish moral imbecility from perverseness, and both from disease. The
habit of scrutinising quickens their sagacity, and fits them for a station, where the knowledge
of the heart is the great secret of control. Accustomed to behold human nature, stript of all
its external trappings, the grade of the prisoner, in their estimation, does not wholly debase
the man. Witnesses to the wretchedness of humble life, the squalor of its garrets and its cellars--observant
that want, which sometimes forms the felon, much oftener makes the martyr, and crowds the hospital
rather than the gaol--they are not incapable of pitying either class of victims. The horrors
which others feel for disease, whether of the body or the mind, excite no antipathies in men
who have devoted their lives to its relief: thus their government of convicts often affords
a singular contrast to the agency which precedes or follows them. The recollection of their
conduct is mentioned by the prisoner with respect, and even with fondness. No profession can
better prepare for practical benevolence: what it withdraws from the sensibility it adds to
the understanding; and those in charge of convict vessels have exhibited, in full average,
the virtues of their profession.[74]

When physical suffering became infrequent, and the arrangements secured both convenience and
comfort during the voyage, it was long ere moral control, or a reformatory discipline, became
objects of concern. A surgeon,[75] employed from 1818, amused the public with the details of
his system of management--not wanting in humanity. He encouraged a joyous indifference to the
past or the future: the prisoners sang from morning to night, and often spent the evenings
in dancing. The greatest criminals were selected on principle for offices of trust, as far
the most trusty! The discourse was licentious--the feats of thievery, the chosen topics of
amusement and conversation. A stage, decked out with the remains of former spoil, exhibited
"the forty thieves," or a comedy of judges, officers, and felons: mock charges were enforced
by barristers, arrayed in blankets; the bench was filled with an actor decorated with a quilt,
while a swab covered his head, and descended to his shoulders. In the female prison ships,
dancing and concerts, at which the cabin passengers were spectators, whiled away the voyage.
The gross immoralities of a former period had subsided when he wrote: he mentioned the change
with regret. A free intercourse, he thought, more conducive to reformation, as well as to harmony:
the attachment formed by the women, softened their demeanor, and facilitated their control.
Such were his views, and they had many partisans: but in connection we learn, without astonishment,
that he thought contemptuously of saintship, considered reformation utopian, and honesty rather
the result of habit than of principle; the convicts, more unfortunate in their detection than
peculiar in their crimes: capable of the devotion of hypocrites; hardly of repentance. The
dash of libertinism which sparkles in the pages of this writer, fell in with the humour of
the day, and the work was popular. It greatly tended, notwithstanding its levity, to change
the character of penal discipline in the colonies.[76]

The discipline of a convict vessel, as administered by Surgeon-superintendent Browning, exhibited
a different scene, and was carried out in another spirit. The devout character of his mind,
his confiding disposition, and boundless good-will, are well known in these colonies; and his
management has been regarded with great admiration, or great contempt. His high valuation of
human nature contrasted with the common official estimate: he not only saw fellow men in the
worst prisoners, but practicable materials, which knowledge and judgment might form into comparative
moral excellence. The plan of his government recognised a wide distribution of oversight and
responsibility: the names by which he distinguished those whom he employed were flattering:
they were not gaolers and turnkeys, but captains of divisions and delegates. He delivered lectures
upon geography and astronomy: those who could play instruments, such as clarionet, fife, and
violin, were stationed on the deck, while the rest marched in ranks. He instituted a court
of enquiry, consisting of five persons, of which his clerk was the recorder, who examined witnesses,
and disposed of trivial offences, by exhortation, warning, and reproof; and in more flagrant
cases, these preliminary inquiries formed the basis of his own adjudication. He treated the
prisoners as persons sequestered from society for their own good. He has shewn, by tables,
that those who acquired a knowledge of reading under his instruction, often indeed imperfect,
formed a large proportion of the whole.[77] His addresses exhibit the ardour of his character:
most critics would discern a tinge of enthusiasm; which, however, is common to all, who successfully
attempt the reformation of mankind. Under such a guardian, it may be imagined, that the physical
welfare of the prisoners was carefully superintended. Medical comforts were distributed with
great liberality: flogging was wholly disused. Moral influence, assisted by occasional deprivation
of food or liberty, comprehended the agency he employed. The systems of Browning and Cunningham,
though contemplating the same general objects, were singularly adverse; and in nothing did
they differ more pointedly than their estimate of the substrata of convict character, the influence
of religious instruction, and the usefulness of the cat. Dr. Browning was subject to much imposition--a
liability which meets every aspect of practical benevolence; but that he preserved order and
health, discouraged blasphemy, provided for the occupation of time, and prevented gambling
and peculation--that he sheltered the well-disposed from the violence and contamination of
the worst--and that he parted with his charge, with their ideas increased and their moral sensibility
awakened--is, with all deductions, a claim to no trifling praise. Colonel Arthur, a keen observer,
mentioned the general emotion which separation occasioned: the prisoners heard his valedictory
address with tenderness and reverence, and melted into tears.[78] To reproach his labors would
be a sin against mankind; but an over-estimate of their effect, diminished the moral weight
of their example. "Dr. Browning's pets" became marked men; their conduct was watched with curiosity,
often with ill-will, and their lapses were reckoned up with exultation.

The ample provision for the accommodation, exercise, and food of the prisoners, has been of
late years a topic of complaint. They require more care, and a diet more nicely chosen, than
laborers in health and mental tranquillity. Efforts to reduce these comforts have been followed
by fever and physical prostration; and whatever aspect their treatment may wear, those who
deprive them of liberty are bound to provide for their safety. The law sentences to transportation:
no question of public policy could justify a minister, when converting that penalty into a
sentence of death.[79]

Notwithstanding the length of the voyage, the navigation of convict vessels has been fortunate:
for thirty years no vessel had been lost. The merchant ships met with the average of accidents;
but the transports were supposed, by the curious, to be under a peculiar destiny. They attributed
their safe passage to the force of the proverb, which implies that the trident of Neptune is
powerless against the heritage of the executioner.

A succession of calamities, in the navigation of convict vessels, changed the aspect of their
fortune, and filled all classes with commiseration: such was the wreck of the Amphitrite, in
1833, which struck on the coast of Bologne. That vessel was in a position of great danger,
and the French pilot, Heuret, endeavoured to warn, in time to save; but the risk of the usual
reward, it is said, the surgeon was unwilling to incur; and the captain, not less indisposed
to forfeit his bond, which included a penalty for every prisoner who might escape. Their hesitation
was fatal to themselves: the women were not permitted to come on deck, or to avail themselves
of the opportunity to save their lives. These unfortunate females, to the number of 103, with
their children, were drowned; and their naked corpses, floating to the coast of France, exhibited
an appalling spectacle. The French and English mingled their tears, as they beheld the bodies
strewed along the beach--some models of feminine beauty, others disfigured by the recent concussions;
among the rest, a young mother, with her child clasped in her arms. Nor does it appear that
the instructions of the government had ever foreseen or provided for such dangers, or authorised
the temporary release of prisoners, when the situation of the ship might require their liberation.

The wreck of the George the Third, in April, 1835, excited the most painful sensations. Having
fifty-three persons on the sick list, occasioned by a deficiency of proper food, Captain Moxley
endeavoured to reach Hobart Town through D'Entrecasteaux's Channel: while running at an easy
rate, and in smooth water, the leadsman cried out, "a quarter less four:" that instant the
vessel struck; at first gently, then heavily, and in less than ten minutes she was a perfect
wreck. The prisoners were below, imploring release: they rushed to the hatchway, where a corporal's
guard was armed to repress them: they forced through the bars, and a few were seen to escape;
the soldiers, ordered to resist their egress, then fired. The waters rushing into the hold
of the vessel drowned the sick, and reached the knees of the convicts, who were ascending the
hatchway; and Major Ryan, and the surgeon-superintendent, expected instant death. They succeeded
in sending the long-boat on shore, amidst the cheers of the prisoners. Assistance was afforded
by the Louisa schooner; and a party dispatched in the cutter, obtained help from Hobart Town:
but of two hundred and twenty, one hundred and thirty-three perished. The fate of the convicts
who fell at the hatchway, excited great commiseration and some complaint: the officers disclaimed
the order to fire--an act which could only be excused by the danger to the whole company in
a rush to the boat. A board of inquiry acquitted all parties of blame.

One man, only, was found on the wreck; an aged prisoner, on his passage to the colony under
his third sentence of transportation: unable to face the surf, he lashed himself to a ring
attached to the hull, and there closed his career of crime.

A disaster, not less appalling, occurred off King's Island, by the wreck of the Neva, in May,
1835, at 4 o'clock in the morning: she struck upon the rocks, swung on the reef, and admitted
the sea. The pinnace was lowered, and the prison being broken by the shock, the unfortunate
women rushed on the deck; they filled the boat, which was instantly swamped, and all, except
three seamen, perished. The long-boat was then carefully laden; but being upset by the surf,
all sunk, except the master and chief officer: these having regained the ship, she parted;
and the women, aroused from their beds in the twilight of a wintry morning, clung shivering
to the fragments. Their cries of suffering and anguish were soon hushed, and of two hundred
and forty, a few moments before slumbering in tranquillity, twenty-two only were borne on broken
pieces of the ship to land; of these, seven died from exhaustion, and the remainder must have
perished, but for the intrepid exertions of Mr. Charles Friend, who caught sight of their signals
when passing the coast.

Two women disputed about the position of the vessel: exasperated by contradiction, they were
tearing each other by the hair, when a wave swept them from the deck into eternity.

The wreck of the Governor Phillip, in 1848, was the last instance of such disasters. The vessel
struck on a sand bank off Cape Barren Island; but, except four, all the prisoners were saved:
six soldiers and five seamen perished, with Lieutenant Griffiths, the officer in command--a
young gentleman of amiable disposition and great promise. He exhibited a brilliant example
of humanity, calmness, and self devotion. The prisoners broke from their quarters, rushed on
the deck, and obstructed the exertions of the seamen: entreating them to return, he gave them
his hand and his word, that he would not desert the vessel until they were clear of the wreck.
While some were conveyed to the shore, he remained knocking off the irons of the rest; and
then finding the boat could not regain the ship, he plunged into the sea, and was last seen
struggling with the current. The risk of life is common to the military profession; but a sacrifice
so nobly made, was surely not less glorious than when on the field of battle.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 63: Sidney Smith: Edinburgh Review, 1803.]

[Footnote 64: Tench's Narrative, 1789.]

[Footnote 65: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 66: This act (4 Geo. iv.) of 1823, made the punishments legally inflicted by the
overseers on board the hulks, the rule on board the transports; but 5 Will. iv. allows such
punishments as may be authorised by the secretary of state, without specifying their nature.
The penalty of £20 (previously £50), for not entering the punishment in the log-book, is in
itself a feeble protection against the abuses which such powers might produce. The instructions
of the secretary of state to the surgeon-superintendent direct--to confine in a dark cell;
to lessen the ration, even to bread and water; and whipping: first "using mild and persuasive
means." It is proper to observe, that these powers are very rarely abused: punishments are
not to be inflicted, except in the presence of at least twelve prisoners.]

[Footnote 67: "The captain and each officer enjoy the right of selection. Thus they continue
the habit of concubinage until the convicts arrive at Sydney Town, and some are now educating
five or six children. Each sailor or soldier is permitted to attach himself to one of the females:
the permission and the caresses of the artful wanton have often lured the temporary parties
to marry at Plymouth, more frequently to consummate the nuptials at Sydney: such a marriage
manumits the convict."

"The unhappy male convicts are denied, save occasionally, these profligate liberties. Occasionally,
however, they range into the quarter assigned to the women. The males, accustomed in London
to indiscriminate license, discover the greatest regret at the restraint of their passions
in the grossest oaths, and in the grossest language. The females, who rather resemble the brutes
than rational creatures in their excesses, answer their reproaches, and rage with equal effrontery,
and unbounded impudence. It is a scene like Pandemonium--a second hell, but upon the ocean.
Sitting in groups, they sing, they shout, they converse in the grossest terms, corrupting,
and corrupted. The concubine knits, or sews for her sailor, near his berth: the rest wash the
clothes of the male convicts; exercise and cleanliness, conducive to their health and to the
comforts of the ship. Many are remarkably neat: all are clad in different dresses--some have
been enabled to purchase caps, more have not. The males are clothed in simple uniformity, in
blue trousers and a jacket. All the convicts are compelled to wash once in the day their heads,
their feet, and their faces; the men under the superintendence of a soldier, the women apart
under the eye of a matron. The males are marched in a body of six across the deck to the pump:
the sailors draw up the water, and they are artfully compelled to labor for health at the pump,
and to rinse away the dirt. By this prudent precaution, in every variety of weather, they obtain
fresh air and avoid the scurvy, or cutaneous diseases. A surgeon daily inspects this human
cargo, and reports its state. They are paid per head, a sum for those who survive the voyage;
hence it is the surgeon's interest to preserve these diseased wretches. To inure this assembly,
disgorged from brothels, and cellars, and gaols, to the appearance, or to the idea of decorum,
the men wash their bodies above decks, and the women between them. The sexes are forbid to
mingle, even at their meals. So rigorous a discipline is only supported by severity of punishments.
Chains, tied round the body and fettered round the ankles, confine and distress each male convict,
by the clanking sound, and by annoying the feet. This image of slavery is copied from the irons
used in the slave-ships in Guinea: as in these, bolts and locks are at hand, in the sides and
ribs of each transport (for the vessels on this service, with peculiar propriety are so named),
to prevent the escape, or preclude the movements of a convict. If he attempt to pass the sentry,
he is liable to be stabbed: for the attempt, a convict was lately shot, and his executioner
was applauded by his officer for a faithful, though severe, discharge of duty. If a felon kill
his companion, a case very frequent in the quarrels of these highwaymen and robbers, the murderer
is hung at the yard-arm, and his body is slowly carried through the ship, and launched into
the deep. For the theft of provisions, or of clothes from his neighbour, a case yet more common,
and more natural to footpads, the convict depredator is shot. For inferior crimes, as riot
or quarrels, a soldier is commanded to whip the offender with martial severity: the first stroke
leaves a deep impression of the wire, the second causes the blood to trickle, the third draws
a stream of gore: under several faintings, the debilitated and disordered convict receives
two dozen of lashes. On the slightest appearance of a mutiny, the ring-leader is cast headlong
into the sea, in his irons and his clothes. We commit this body to the deep, the chaplain repeals,
but the words of Shakespeare, perhaps, would be more applicable:--

'O mutineer! if thou hast any hope of heaven's bliss, Lift up thy hand; make signal of that
hope. He sinks! and makes no sign.'" --Account, by Captain Bertram, in 1800: Longman.]

[Footnote 68: New South Wales first fleet, 987 convicts; of which 25 died, or 1 in 35. Second
fleet, 1763 convicts: died 327, or 1 in every 5-1/2.

"I beg leave, however, to say, that the provisions were much superior to those usually supplied
by contract: they were furnished by Messrs. Richards and Thorn, of Tower-street, London."--Tench's
Narrative. These honest contractors deserve immortal renown.]

[Footnote 69: Table of Voyages, from 1810 to 1820:

--------+---------------------------+----------+---------+-------+-----+
Voyages.|       Course pursued.     | Average. |Convicts.|Deaths.|Sick.|
--------+---------------------------+----------+---------+-------+-----+
  44    | Direct                    | 127 days |  7,657  |  71   |  94 |
  38    | Touched at Rio de Janeiro | 156 days |  6,470  | 132   | 123 |
  11    | Touched Cape of G. Hope   | 146 days |  1,912  |   9   |  57 |
--------+---------------------------+----------+---------+-------+-----+]

[Footnote 70: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 71: The bloody Chapman.]

[Footnote 72: This man, after an extraordinary career, closed his miserable life on the scaffold,
for the murder of a female, to whom he was engaged. His relative conferred upon her surviving
children a sum of money to ensure their education--an act of uncommon generosity which must
obliterate the discredit of a relationship to one, who, however, perhaps blended insanity and
deliberate crime.]

[Footnote 73: Parliamentary Papers.]

[Footnote 74: "What chaplets are woven for men of slaughter! What statues to men slaying conquerers!
What notes of glory sounded, what blaspheming praises to the genius of blood shedding! I have
seen much of the ceremonies dedicated to these things, and contrasting my late feelings with
my present, with what new homage do I venerate the race of Lintleys; the men who, like minor
deities, walk the earth: and in the homes of poverty, where sickness falls with doubly heavy
hand, fight the disease beside the poor man's bed--their only fee, the blessing of the poor!
Mars may have his planet, but give me--what, in the spirit of the old mythology might be made
a star in heaven--the night lamp of Apothecary Lintley."--Story of a Feather, by Douglas Jerrold.]

[Footnote 75: Cunningham.]

[Footnote 76: Two Years in New South Wales, vol. ii, pp. 260-282.]

[Footnote 77: Compiled from Dr. Browning's Tables.

+-----------------------------------------------+------------------------+ ¦             At
embarkation.                   ¦    On debarkation.     ¦ +--------+-------------+------------------------+------------------------+
¦  Year. ¦   Ship.     ¦ Neither read nor write.¦Unable to read or write.¦ +--------+-------------+------------------------+------------------------+
¦  1831  ¦   Surry     ¦          118           ¦           1            ¦ ¦  1834  ¦   Arab
¦          194           ¦           1            ¦ ¦  1836  ¦ Elphinstone ¦          158 
¦          None          ¦ ¦  1840  ¦  Margaret   ¦          102           ¦           6  
¦ +--------+-------------+------------------------+------------------------+]

[Footnote 78: "After he had examined them, and almost every prisoner had repeated a portion
of scripture, he addressed them in a most affecting manner, and entreated them not to forget
the lessons he had imparted; and on his withdrawing, I think there was not a dry eye amongst
the whole of the prisoners."--Col. Arthur, 1837. Par. Papers.]

[Footnote 79: Browning's England's Exiles, 1842.]

SECTION V.

Those who delight to distinguish practical wisdom from theory, will derive no countenance from
the early practice of transportation. To rid the parent state of an encumbrance, was alone
the immediate object of the government: all beyond was surrendered to fate. The absorbing agitation
of Europe, then filled with wars and revolutions, diverted the public gaze from a distant experiment,
and left to local discretion the details of its working. The difficulties of this extempore
system were really great: that competition for penal labor, which afterwards made its distribution
a boon, had no existence; the social influence of a strong body of settlers, habituated to
industry, and expecting opulence as its reward, was an auxiliary unknown. Political economy,
as a practical science, was lightly esteemed: the choice of instruments to effect a royal purpose,
rarely determined by their specific qualifications. The first rulers of these colonies were,
indeed, men of literary pretensions; several, of extensive nautical experience: trained on
the quarter deck in the discipline of war, when royal ships were often scenes of great courage,
and of equal despotism and debasement--when seamen were taken from the dock, impressed from
the trader, and even stolen on the streets. Taught to govern a crew, they were judged by the
ministry exactly qualified to coerce and control a body of prisoners. There were some advantages
in this choice: they were men who knew how to subject the will of masses; their fearless temper
felt no dread of those wild and lawless spirits surrendered to their power. They could transfer
the system of the navy to the shore: they were not intimidated by hardships, and they were
accustomed to privations: perhaps, no other profession could have furnished adventurers, on
the whole, so well qualified for their task.

But in planting a colony, tillage is the first element of success; of this, they knew nothing:
they could destroy a fort, or erect a tent; but to subdue the earth to the plough, or to construct
a town, required another education. They gave, and long preserved, to the site of the city,
the name of camp: thus the first efforts at cultivation were unfortunate: they had passed two
years in New Holland, scratching up the earth with hoes, and ought to have gathered a harvest,
when they were on the verge of starvation.[80]

Among the thousand persons landed, not one could be found possessing a knowledge of agriculture.[81]
What they did not know, they could not teach. The misapplication of labor was prodigious: they
acquired the art of cultivation by the slow process of experiment; and thus they came to a
conclusion, only lately obsolete--that an Australasian husbandman is spoiled by the agricultural
knowledge of Europe.

The immediate direction of labor, from the beginning, was committed to convicts. To stand over
the prisoners, was not an agreeable occupation for gentlemen: thus the actual working of transportation,
as a penal system, was entrusted to men, often clever and corrupt, whose brutal habits and
savage demeanour excited disgust and fear. This error perpetuated itself: persons of character
rejected a position, so often occupied by the worthless: even the distribution of labor was
entrusted to such hands, or subject to their influence. To the prisoners, in reality, they
sold indulgences of the crown, or exacted a revenue from their vices. The chief superintendent
of convicts at Sydney, and who long determined what men should be dispatched to this country,
was himself doubly convicted.[82] This was far from destroying eligibility: it became at last
an official proverb, that bad men, from the very vices of their character, were the fittest
for a direct supervision; and, finally, that the world is divided between the rogue and the
fool. The use of power, when entrusted to such hands, is no problem; nor is it possible to
imagine greater degradation, or punishment more capricious, than of the unfortunate person
subject to such taskmasters; in whose hands, according to the custom of early times, the rod
of authority was not a metaphor.[83]

That form of service, known as assignment, was established by Governor King in 1804. The master
was bound by indenture to retain his servant for one year, and for every day deficient, a penalty
of one shilling was imposed: the quantity of the work to be done was prescribed; contingent,
however, on the nature of the soil, the state of the weather, and the strength of the workman:
the surplus of his time might be occupied by the master, but his earnings were his own. Wages
were £10 per annum, and for a female £7; but the deficiency of money, induced the employers
to allot a proportion of time as a compensation, or to supply goods, on which an advance was
claimed, often extremely oppressive; and when the season rendered servants less useful, the
masters were tempted to obtain relief by false accusations, or to allow their men to quit the
premises--who sought, by labor or theft, the means of subsistence.

To restrict the habit of change, Macquarie established the rule that no convict should be returnable,
except for infirmity, sickness, or crime; but when the supply exceeded the demand, this condition
was evaded, and the result--an accumulation in the hands of the government. A large proportion
were from the manufacturing districts of Great Britain: they were utterly ignorant of farming,
and when the plough superceded the hoe, they required a tedious training before they repaid
the expense of their support.

The agriculture of this colony was long trifling: the convicts were chiefly employed as stockmen
and shepherds: from the banks of the Derwent to the district of Launceston, the land in general
was a wilderness, unfenced and untenanted: the men, stationed forty and fifty miles from their
masters' dwellings, were rarely visited, and were under no immediate control. They were armed,
to defend themselves from the natives, and clad in skins: they lived in turf huts, thatched
with long grass, and revived the example of savage life.[84]

It was the custom to allot to the superior officers, magistrates, and constables, in proportion
to their rank, a certain number of men, who were subsisted from the king's stores. A skilful
mechanic, or pedlar, was a valuable acquisition: he hired his own time, and paid from 5s. to
£1, according to its estimated weekly value, while the master drew, for his own use, the rations
of the servant. Others rented farms, and paid their masters in produce; and when "government
men," as assigned servants were called, were unable to obtain payment, and thus failed to make
good an engagement with the master, they were liable to be thrown back into their former position.

Tickets-of-leave were freely given to those incapable of much service to the government, or
its officers: such as were useful, whatever might be their conduct, were long detained, and
for a period often indefinite. Females, who arrived with property, were discharged to enjoy
it. If followed by the husband, the wife was instantly assigned to his care. To enable a prisoner
to support his wife when she joined him, or when a convict married a convict, if of no special
value he was released to labor for himself.

No accurate account was preserved of these distributions, and a notice appeared during the
government of Sorell, which required all women living at large to give an account of the grounds
on which they pretended to freedom, or otherwise to obtain a regular ticket-of-leave.

Under a system so irregular, great practical injustice was occasionally inflicted: while advantages
were enjoyed by artisans, who could hire their time; who obtained large profits from their
trade, and indulged in every form of vice and licentiousness.[85]

An action in 1821 (Loane v. Beamont), for the recovery of a debt incurred by a prisoner of
the crown assigned to the defendant, illustrated the system which then prevailed. The man in
question arrived in 1813, and in 1816 he was Beamont's government man, who then by verbal agreement,
and afterwards in writing, engaged to sell him a farm, near Herdsman's Cove, for £1,400, including
the stock and implements of husbandry. He possessed, besides a sum of money, a considerable
flock of sheep. There was nothing disguised in this transaction: the annual rental was intended
to cover the purchase. The judge remarked, that the memorandum "was as good a sale upon honor
as ever he saw." The suit was an instance of the strange perversion of prison discipline, which
however excited no remark, and therefore could not be uncommon.

At the close of Governor Davey's administration in 1817, the population of Van Diemen's Land
was 3,114, and of these 566 resided in the county of Cornwall. The convicts were slowly augmented
by deportations from Sydney, and they were subject to the absolute will of the officers. It
is in vain to look for systems in a community so small, and separated by so great a distance
from public opinion. Management was lax or rigid, according to the temper of the moment; and
no object was contemplated by those who had power, except to render its exercise subservient
to their private views. Previous character had no marked influence in determining the lot:
a life of crime was no barrier to indulgence, when its price could be paid: the early career
of the prisoners was generally unknown. The discipline was, indeed, often severe: lashes were
administered by hundreds, and crimes or offences, were resented or forgiven, not according
to rule, but circumstances. There were, however, gradations of penal banishment: as at Sydney,
those separated to special punishment, were sent to Hobart Town; such as were still further
implicated were forwarded to Launceston; but the dregs of all settled at George Town. What
was the character of the inhabitants of that place, may be inferred from the Commissioner's
Reports. Prisoners, male and female, living in skillings, the commandant disobeying the orders
of his chief, inferior officers exhibiting flagrant immorality; labor compensated by the government
in a currency of rum; sold by abandoned women--who were often the depositories of stolen goods
passed from Hobart Town and Launceston. Such was George Town at, and for some time after, this era.

The charges against the prisoners, were such as result from slavery and debasement. All crimes,
of less magnitude than murder, or burglary under aggravated circumstances, were punished in
a summary manner. To prosecute, was to encounter ruin: the person despoiled, while pursuing
the robber, lost the remnant of his property; and, returning to his dwelling, found it wrecked
and pillaged. Mechanics, and others entitled to money, were paid in rum, and its prompt consumption
was the only means to secure its enjoyment. Those who earned considerable sums, were rarely
richer than their neighbours.

While Governor Collins lived, some order was maintained: it was during the rule of his successor
that the British standard covered a state of society, such as never before possessed the official
sanction. Once or twice a month, this Governor enjoyed a carouse, to which a sea-port, in times
of war, might furnish an example. Having selected a station, not far from the town, he provided
for the feast: the more talented of the convicts surrounded the tent, and enlivened the entertainment
with songs. Rum, in large quantities, loaded the board: first the chiefs, and then their retainers,
revelled in its overflowing abundance. The gaol gang, warned by his Honor's steward of the
direction the guests had taken, sometimes followed after the jovial ruler; and when the moon
arose, the Governor and his attendants, of various grades, might be seen winding home together.
A number of settlers, whom he had offended, refused an invitation: when time had obliterated
their resentment, he invited them again: the table was covered, and the guests were seated;
but at that moment, the gaol gang, facetiously called the Governor's band, and who were posted
near the spot for the purpose, burst into the chamber, and swept away all the provisions. The
Governor pretended to regret this termination; but consoled himself by saying, he could "get
a dinner at Stocker's." Such was this trustee of national justice!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 80: At the period above mentioned, the colony was in imminent danger of perishing
from famine, in consequence of the non-arrival of store ships from England. Here, on the summit
of a hill, did we sweep the horizon every morning from day-light until the sun sunk, in the
hope of seeing a sail. In March, vigorous measures were become necessary. The Sirius was ordered
to prepare for a voyage to China, but she was shortly after wrecked. On the 27th of this month,
the following order was issued:--'Parole--Honor; countersign--Example. The pork had been salted
between three and four years, and every grain of rice was a moving body. We soon left off boiling
the pork, as it had become so old and dry, that it shrunk one half. The distress of the lower
classes for clothes was almost equal to their other wants. In May, the men became much weakened
from want, and they were ordered to do only as much work as their strength would permit. Rigorous
justice was executed on persons detected in robbing or pilfering. A convict detected in stealing
potatoes was ordered to receive 300 lashes, to be chained for six months to two other criminals,
and to have his allowance of flour stopped for six months. Further, to contribute to the detection
of villany, a proclamation, offering 60 pounds of flour, more tempting than the gold of Peru,
was promised to any one who should apprehend a robber of garden ground. I ran to a hill, where,
by the assistance of a pocket glass, my hopes were realised. She had been about eleven months
on her voyage."--Tench's Narrative.]

[Footnote 81: Dr. Lang's History of New South Wales.]

[Footnote 82: Bigge's Reports.]

[Footnote 83: The decision of a magistrate was not necessary, to inflict punishment. The overseer
stalked about with a military cane, and was not sparing of its use. The nefarious needleman
writes home, that he is as comfortable as a finger in a thimble: that, though a fraction only
of humanity, he has several wives, and is filled every day with rum and kangaroo. This, of
course, is not lost upon a shop-board, and for the saving of fifteen pence a-day (to government),
the foundation of many criminal tailors is laid."--Edinburgh Review, 1823.]

SECTION VI.

The adventurous habits of a hunting life, favored by the early necessities of the settlement,
trained the prisoners to bushranging.[86] The lawless pioneers of the settlers repeated in
Tasmania the exploits once common in Great Britain, when the merry green wood was the retreat
of the outlaw; and always found where the population is scanty and the government feeble: the
popular names of places denote the character or tastes of their early visitors and heroes.[87]
The bushrangers at first were absentees, who were soon allured or driven to theft and violence;
but so early as 1808, Lemon and Brown, by systematic robbery, had excited feelings of alarm:
one of these men was surprised asleep, and decapitated, at Lemon Springs, which bear his name.

The severity of corporal punishment, which prevailed at that period, when no prison more secure
than a stockade had been built, induced the accused to obtain a respite by retiring to the
bush. Some men of milder disposition abstained from all active violations of the law, and kept
aloof from offenders of a different temper. Of a sailor, who deserted to the forest, it is
said that he not only refrained from robberies, but often prevented them: he had carried to
his retreat a young woman whom he professed to love, and remained for three years in his seclusion.
The romance of this event was, however, extinguished at the close of their exile: the man grew
prosperous, abandoned his faithful companion, and married another.

Towards the close of 1813, the daring and sanguinary violence of bushrangers, reduced the colony
to the utmost distress: the settlers, generally of the lowest class, received their plunder,
and gave them notice of pursuit. Their alliance with stock-keepers, who themselves passed rapidly,
and almost naturally, from the margin of civilised to a lawless life, was well understood:
nor could they readily refuse their friendship: the government, unable to afford them protection,
left them no other source of safety. The division of the colonists into those who had been
convicts, and those who controlled them, naturally ranged all of loose principles on the side
of the outlaws. Nor was their mode of life without attractions: they were free: their daring
seemed like heroism to those in bondage. They not unfrequently professed to punish severity
to the prisoners, and like Robin Hood of old, to pillage the rich, that they might be generous
to the poor. The course adopted by the government indicated the strength of the robbers: despairing
to reduce them by force, in 1814 Macquarie tendered pardon, except for the crime of murder,
to those who, within six months, should return to their duty. To give effect to this treaty,
time was judged necessary for its publication; and to allow for the hesitation of the penitent,
a distant day was appointed for closing the door.

This singular document was prepared by his Majesty's judge, who was thus himself bound in honor
to its unexampled conditions; but the legal acumen of the robbers soon detected the error:
its effect was not only pardon for the past, but, with the exception of murder, a license to
ravage the colony until the date expired. Thus, they gathered the harvest of crime, and continued
their depredations to the last. Nor was another advantage foreseen, although eagerly embraced
by the robbers: they almost universally submitted, and having cleared with the law, were prepared
again to abscond, and risk once more the chances of the field; but if the document was absurd,
the conduct of the local authorities was not less impolitic. The removal of men, so well acquainted
with the colony and its hundred retreats, was an obvious, yet neglected, precaution: some were
satisfied with their past experience, but others lost no time in returning to the bush.

For several years the settlement suffered the utmost mischief from these bands of robbers:
among those celebrated for daring, for resolute resistance, and for frequent escapes, Michael
Howe, a seaman, obtained the largest share of fame. Formerly in the royal navy, and afterwards
owning a small coal craft, he had acquired some notion of order and command. On his arrival
in Van Diemen's Land, in 1812, he was assigned to Mr. Ingle, a merchant and stock-holder; but
he had declared, that having served the king, he would be no man's slave, and to cast off the
yoke of such subjection was, perhaps, the main object he contemplated. Such was his pretence.
Having received the benefit of the amnesty, he soon joined a gang, of which one Whitehead was
the leader; among whom was a deserter of the 73rd regiment, and two aboriginal women. The settlers
of New Norfolk, they deprived of all their portable property, their arms and ammunition; and
shortly after, thus equipped, they burned the wheat stacks and barns of the police magistrate,
Mr. Humphrey, and those of Reardon, the district constable at Pittwater. The following month
they appeared again at New Norfolk, and pillaged the residence of Mr. Carlisle, who advising
his neighbour, Mr. M'Carty, of their vicinity, induced him to arm for the protection of a vessel,
the Geordy, which he presumed they would endeavour to capture. M'Carty, and those who were
with him, coming up with the robbers, demanded their arms. They were under the cover of a large
hollow tree: the settlers were thus exposed to their aim: Carlisle himself received a ball
in the groin, and three slugs in the breast, and died within an hour. O'Birnie, master of the
vessel, was wounded by a ball in the cheek, which perforated his tongue and lodged in his neck.
The banditti now commanded instant surrender, which being refused, the firing was renewed.
The settlers were compelled to abandon one of their number, who was preserved by Whitehead
from the violence of his comrades. When an account of this skirmish was received, armed parties
were dispatched from Hobart Town, and came closely on their track. They re-appeared at the
house of Mr. Humphrey, and compelled his servants to tie the hands of each other: they then
plundered whatever they found useful, destroying the rest in revenge: they had discovered handcuffs
in the house. Hitherto Whitehead had been the leader; but his spite ultimately led to his destruction:
he conducted his gang to the house of M'Carty, into which they wantonly fired a volley of shot:
a party of the 46th regiment were lying in ambush; a brisk fire commenced, and Whitehead was
mortally wounded. The darkness of the night prevented pursuit: Whitehead ran towards Howe,
who, at his request, immediately cut off his head. They had bound each other thus to provide
against the recognition of a fallen companion--to deprive their pursuers of the promised reward.
Howe then became the leader of the band. A party of soldiers succeeded in the capture of two
who had separated from the rest: they also recovered ammunition and fire-arms, of which the
settlers had been pillaged. To effect the reduction of such disturbers of the public peace,
martial law was proclaimed by Lieutenant-Governor Davey--an exertion of power beyond his commission,
and opposed by his only official adviser, the Deputy Judge Advocate. Macquarie promptly disallowed
this interference with his authority. It was argued, that the right to declare martial law,
if vested in Davey, might be claimed by any subaltern, whose distance from the central authority
gave the plea of necessity. To bring the offenders to justice at all, it was first necessary
to take them: when in bonds, they would cease to be dangerous, and might be forwarded to the
tribunal appointed by the crown. These arguments did not prevail to stay process: a court-martial
condemned to death Macguire and Burne, bushrangers, and Stephens, a perfidious stock-keeper,
by whom they had been countenanced.

The movements of the robbers were rapid: they plundered the residence of Mr. David Rose, near
Launceston, and escaping a diligent pursuit, they re-appeared at Bagdad, a distance of 100
miles. Their scouts had informed them that property to a large amount would be found there:
their confederacy was extensive, and it was asserted by Howe, that some most active in his
pursuit, had been sharers in the profits of his crimes. The tone assumed by this robber, was
that of an independent chief, and in the management of his men he attempted the discipline
of war. They subscribed to articles, which bound them to obedience: penalties were inflicted,
such as cutting and carrying wood for their fires, or even stripes. He professed the piety
of a quarter-deck, and read to them the scriptures: his style and title was "Governor of the
Rangers," and he addressed the King's representative as "Governor of the Town." His taste for
ceremony was once curiously exhibited: having met a traveller, he ranged his party, and called
on the stranger to witness an oath, which was administered on the Prayer Book by one of the
gang. The purport of their vow might be inferred from their message: they said, they could
set the whole country on fire with one stick, and thrash in one night more than could be gathered
in a year.

Happily for mankind, the association of evil men is but transient. Howe, often absent from
his party, without assigning reasons, awakened a suspicion: he retreated with a native girl,
Mary, but was shortly after followed by soldiers. His companion was taken, and he lost his
dogs, his knapsack, and arms: it is said, that he fired at the girl, because she encumbered
his flight; but it was asserted by himself, that he only intended to alarm, and not destroy
her. She became useful to the government, by discovering the resort of the robbers, and a flock
of sheep they had stolen. At length, weary of his wandering life, Howe proposed to surrender
to the government. A person, who had formerly joined him in an attempt to escape in an American
vessel, became the channel of communication. Howe affected to dread the violence of the settlers,
who might kill him for the reward, or to prevent his disclosures; but Governor Sorell sent
Captain Nairne to the place of meeting, with an assurance of present safety, and intercession
for his forgiveness.

Society must have been at the verge of dissolution, when letters and messages passed between
the government and an outlaw. To admit its prudence, requires a recollection, not only of the
power of the robbers, but the number of their friends.[88]

The disclosures of Howe were not important, and his companions continued still a terror to
the public: their losses were frequent, but they received continual accessions. They seized
the boat, which carried provisions between George Town and Launceston; probably with the concurrence
of the crew, several of whom joined them. They were now twenty in number, and it became necessary
to unite the colony against them. The more opulent settlers were compelled to abandon their
dwellings, and to take refuge in the towns. Sorell, by a spirited appeal, roused their more
decided efforts to destroy the marauders: sums, subscribed by the inhabitants of Hobart Town,
of eighty or one hundred guineas, were offered for their apprehension. A party of military
traced them to the Black Brush, and thence to a settler's house at the Tea Tree, where they
had dined. They had the advantage of position, but Geary, their leader, was slain, and several
others wounded. The rain had damped the powder of the soldiers, which prevented their muskets
from telling with full effect; but their success was ominous to the robbers.

Notwithstanding the character of Howe, on the plea of ill-health, he was permitted to walk
abroad in charge of a constable; but whether he distrusted the promise of pardon, or preferred
the license of the bush, he eluded his guard, and escaped--without, however, trusting his safety
to the fidelity of his former companions. These soon met their fate: Hillier resolved to purchase
his life by the sacrifice of his comrades. At midnight, while two of them slept, he attempted
their destruction: cutting the throat of one, from ear to ear, and wounding the other with
his own rifle.

