PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

October 4, 1890.

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NEW SERIES.--IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.

This age has been called an Age of Progress, an Age of Reform, an Age of Intellect, an Age
of Shams; everything in fact except an Age of Prizes. And yet, it is perhaps as an Age of Prizes
that it is destined to be chiefly remembered. The humble but frantic solver of Acrostics has
had his turn, the correct expounder of the law of Hard Cases has by this time established a
complete code of etiquette; the doll-dresser, the epigram-maker, the teller of witty stories,
the calculator who can discover by an instinct the number of letters in a given page of print,
all have displayed their ingenuity, and have been magnificently rewarded by prizes varying
in value from the mere publication of their names, up to a policy of life insurance, or a completely
furnished mansion in Peckham Rye. In fact, it has been calculated by competent actuaries that
taking a generation at about thirty-three years, and making every reasonable allowance for
errors of postage, stoppage in transitu, fraudulent bankruptcies and unauthorised conversions,
120 per cent. of all persons alive in Great Britain and Ireland in any given day of twenty-four
hours, must have received a prize of some sort.

Novelists, however, have not as yet received a prize of any sort, at least as novelists. The
reproach is about to be removed. A prize of £1000 has been offered for the best novel by the
Editor of a newspaper. The most distinguished writers are, so it is declared, entered for the
Competition, but only the name of the prize-winner is to be revealed, only the prize-winning
novel is to be published. Such at least has been the assurance given to all the eminent authors
by the Editor in question. But Mr. Punch laughs at other people's assurances, and by means
of powers conferred upon him by himself for that purpose, he has been able to obtain access
to all the novels hitherto sent in, and will now publish a selection of Prize Novels, together
with the names of their authors, and a few notes of his own, wherever the text may seem to
require them.

In acting thus Mr. Punch feels, in the true spirit of the newest and the Reviewest of Reviews,
that he is conferring a favour on the authors concerned by allowing them the publicity of these
columns. Sometimes pruning and condensation may be necessary. The operation will be performed
as kindly as circumstances permit. It is hardly necessary to add that Mr. Punch will give his
own prize in his own way, and at his own time, to the author he may deem the best. And herewith
Mr. Punch gives a specimen of--

NO. I.--ONE MAN IN A COAT.

(BY ARRY O.K. ARRY, AUTHOR OF "STIGE FICES," "CHEAP WORDS OF A CHIPPY CHAPPIE," ETSETTERER.)

    [PREFATORY NOTE.--This Novel was carefully wrapped up in
    some odd leaves of MARK TWAIN'S Innocents Abroad, and was
    accompanied by a letter in which the author declared that
    the book was worth £3000, but that "to save any more blooming
    trouble," he would be willing to take the prize of £1000 by
    return of post, and say no more about it.--ED.]

CHAPTER I.

It was all the Slavey what got us into the mess. Have you ever noticed what a way a Slavey
has of snuffling and saying, "Lor, Sir, oo'd 'a thought it?" on the slightest provocation.
She comes into your room just as you are about to fill your finest two-handed meerschaum with
Navy-cut, and looks at you with a far-away look in her eyes, and a wisp of hair winding carelessly
round the neck of her print dress. You murmur something in an insinuating way about that box
of Vestas you bought last night from the blind man who stands outside "The Old King of Prussia"
pub round the corner. Then one of her hairpins drops into the fireplace, and you rush to pick
it up, and she rushes at the same moment, and your head goes crack against her head, and you
see some stars, and a weary kind of sensation comes over you, and just as you feel inclined
to send for the cat's-meat man down the next court to come and fetch you away to the Dogs'
Home, in bounces your landlady, and with two or three "Well, I nevers!" and "There's an imperent
'ussey, for you!" nearly bursts the patent non-combustible bootlace you lent her last night
to hang the brass locket round her neck by.

POTTLE says his landlady's different, but then POTTLE always was a rum 'un, and nobody knows
what old rag-and-bone shop he gets his landladies from. I always get mine only at the best
places, and advise everybody else to do the same. I mentioned this once to BILL MOSER, who
looks after the calico department in the big store in the High Street, but he only sniffed,
and said, "Garne, you don't know everythink!" which was rude of him. I might have given him
one for himself just then, but I didn't. I always was a lamb; but I made up my mind that next
time I go into the ham-and-beef shop kept by old Mother MOSER I'll say something about "'orses
from Belgium" that the old lady won't like.

Did you ever go into a ham-and-beef shop? It's just like this. I went into MOSER'S last week.
Just when I got in I tripped over some ribs of beef lying in the doorway, and before I had
time to say I preferred my beef without any boot-blacking, I fell head-first against an immense
sirloin on the parlour table. Mrs. MOSER called all the men who were loafing around, and all
the boys and girls, and they carved away at the sirloin for five hours without being able to
get my head out. At last an old gentleman, who was having his dinner there, said he couldn't
bear whiskers served up as a vegetable with his beef. Then they knew they'd got near my face,
so they sent away the Coroner and pulled me out, and when I got home my coat-tail pockets were
full of old ham-bones. The boy did that--young varmint! I'll ham-bone him when I catch him next!

CHAPTER II.

Let me see, what was I after? Oh, yes, I remember. I was going to tell you about our Slavey
and the pretty pickle she got us into. I'm not sure it wasn't POTTLE'S fault. I said to him,
just as he was wiping his mouth on the back of his hand after his fourth pint of shandy-gaff,
"POTTLE, my boy," I said, "you're no end of a chap for shouting 'Cash forward!' so that all
the girls in the shop hear you and say to one another, 'My, what a lovely voice that young
POTTLE'S got!' But you're not much good at helping a pal to order a new coat, nor for the matter
of that, in helping him to try it on." But POTTLE only hooked up his nose and looked scornful.
Well, when the coat came home the Slavey brought it up, and put it on my best three-legged
chair, and then flung out of the room with a toss of her head, as much as to say, "'Ere's extravagance!"
First I looked at the coat, and then the coat seemed to look at me. Then I lifted it up and
put it down again, and sent out for three-ha'porth of gin. Then I tackled the blooming thing
again. One arm went in with a ten-horse power shove. Next I tried the other. After no end of
fumbling I found the sleeve. "In you go!" I said to my arm, and in he went, only it happened
to be the breast-pocket. I jammed, the pocket creaked, but I jammed hardest, and in went my
fist, and out went the pocket.

Then I sat down, tired and sad, and the lodging-house cat came in and lapped up the milk for
my tea, and MOSER'S bull-dog just looked me up, and went off with the left leg of my trousers,
and the landlady's little boy peeped round the door and cried, "Oh, Mar, the poor gentleman's
red in the face--I'm sure he's on fire!" And the local fire-brigade was called up, and they
pumped on me for ten minutes, and then wrote "Inextinguishable" in their note-books, and went
home; and all the time I couldn't move, because my arms were stuck tight in a coat two sizes
too small for me.

CHAPTER III.

The Slavey managed--

    [No, thank you. No more.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FAVOURITE TOOL OF RAILWAY COMPANIES.--A Screw-Driver!

       *       *       *       *       *

    ["How then about the British Cavalry of September, 1890? A
    spectator who has taken part in modern regular war, and has
    watched the manoeuvres, said one day to me when I accosted
    him, in an apologetic tone, 'I have hitherto done your Army
    injustice, I will not do so again; I had no idea how well
    your officers and your troopers ride,--they are very fine
    horsemen.' There he stopped; I waited for more, but he had
    ended; his silence was a crushing criticism, unintentionally
    too severe, but very true.... I assert, therefore, that at
    this moment, our Cavalry is inefficient, and not prepared
    for war."--The Times Military Correspondent.]

AIR--"TALLY-HO!" (FROM THE BALLIOL SONG-BOOK.)

  "Of all the recreations with which mortal man is blest"
  (Says BALLIOL's Song) "fox-hunting still is pleasantest and best."
  A Briton in the saddle is a picture, and our pride,
  In scarlet or in uniform at least our lads can ride.
    Away, away they go,
    With a tally, tally-ho!
  With a tally, tally, tally, tally, tally, tally-ho!

  But riding, for our Cavalry, is, after all, not all.
  To lead the field, to leap a fence, to bravely face a fall,
  Are well enough. And first-rate stuff from the hunting-field may come,
  But something more is wanted when Bellona beats her drum,
    And calls our lads to go,
    With a rally, rally-ho! &c.

  Good men and rattling horses are not all that England needs;
  She wants sound knowledge in the men, and training in the steeds.
  Scouting and reconnaissance are not needed for the fox,
  Nor "leading in big masses" for the furious final shocks,
    When away the troopers go,
    With a rally, rally, ho! &c.

  But when a squadron charges on the real field of war,
  Courage and a good seat alone will not go very far;
  Our lads must "know their business," and their officers must "lead,"
  Not with cross-country dash alone, but skill and prudent heed,
    When away the troopers go,
    With a rally, rally, ho! &c.

  War's field will test the Cavalry, or clad in blue or red;
  In all things they must "thorough" be, as well as thorough-bred.
  "Heavy" or "light," they'll have to fight; not such mad, headlong fray,
  As marked for fame with pride--and shame--that Balaklava day,
    When away our lads did go,
    With a rally, rally, ho! &c.

  Eh? "Inefficient," Mr. BULL, "and not prepared for war?"
  That judgment, if 'tis near the truth, on patriot souls must jar.
  And Mr. Punch (Umpire-in-Chief) to JOHN (Paymaster), cries,
  "You'll have to test the truth of this before the need arise
    For our lads away to go.
    With a rally, rally-ho!" &c

  And since that Soldier's incomplete for Duty unprepared,
  Although he's game to dare the worst that ever Briton dared,
  To supplement our trooper's skill in saddle, pluck and dash,
  You must have more manoeuvres, JOHN, and--if needs be,--more cash!
    Then away away we'll go
    With a tally rally-ho!
  And never be afraid to face the strongest, fiercest foe.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HAD HE SUCCEEDED!

(A POSSIBLE PAGE IN FRENCH HISTORY THAT PROBABLY WILL NEVER BE WRITTEN.)

The General-President had been established at the Elysée for some three months, when his aides-de-camp
found their labours considerably increased. At all hours of the day and night they were called
up to receive persons who desired an interview with their chief and master. As they had received
strict orders from His Highness never to appear in anything but full uniform (cloth of gold
tunics, silver-tissue trousers, and belts and epaulettes of diamonds) they spent most of their
time in changing their costume.

"I am here to see anyone and everyone," said His Highness; "but I look to you, Gentlemen of
the Ring, I should say Household, to see that I am disturbed by only those who have the right
of entrée. And now, houp-là! You can go."

Thus dismissed, the unfortunate aides-de-camp could but bow, and retire in silence. But, though
they gave no utterance to their thoughts, their reflections were of a painful character. They
felt what with five reviews a day, to say nothing of what might be termed scenes in the circle
(attendances at the Bois, dances at the Hôtel de Ville, and the like), their entire exhaustion
was only a question of weeks, or even days.

One morning the General-President, weary of interviews, was about to retire into his salle-à-manger,
there to discuss the twenty-five courses of his simple déjeuner à la fourchette, when he was
stopped by a person in a garb more remarkable for its eccentricity than its richness. This
person wore a coat with tails a yard long, enormous boots, a battered hat, and a red wig. A
close observer would have doubted whether his nose was real or artificial. The strangely-garbed
intruder bowed grotesquely.

"What do you want with me?" asked the General-President, sharply. "Do you not know I am busy?"

"Not too busy to see me," retorted the unwelcome guest, striking up a lively tune upon a banjo
which he had concealed about his person while passing the Palace Guard, but which he now produced.
"I pray you step with me a measure."

Thus courteously invited, His Highness could but comply, and for some ten minutes host and
guest indulged in a breakdown.

"And now, what do you want with me?" asked the General-President when the dance had been brought
to a satisfactory conclusion.

"My reward," was the prompt reply.

"Reward!" echoed His Highness. "Why, my good friend, I have refused a Royal Duke, an Imperial
Prince, a Powerful Order, and any number of individuals, who have made a like demand."

"Ah! but they did not do so much for you as I did."

"Well, I don't know," returned the General-President, "but they parted with their gold pretty
freely."

"Gold!" retorted the visitor, contemptuously, "I gave you more than gold. From me you had notes.
Where would you have been without my songs?" He took off his false nose, and thus enabled the
General-President to recognise the "Pride of the Music Halls!"

"You will find I am not ungrateful," said the Chief of the State, with difficulty suppressing
his emotion.

His Highness was as good as his word. The next night at the Café des Ambassadeurs there was
a novel attraction. An old favourite was described in the affiches as le Due de Nouveau-Cirque.

The reception that old favourite received in the course of the evening was fairly, but not
too cordial. But enthusiasm and hilarity reached fever-heat when, on turning his face from
them, the audience discovered that their droll was wearing (in a somewhat grotesque fashion)
the grand cordon of the Legion of Honour on his back! Then it was felt that France must be
safe in the hands of a man whose sense of the fitness of things rivalled the taste of the pig
whose soul soared above the charm of pearls!

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTT-FREE; OR, RAVENSWOOD-NOTES WILD.

