The various classes of facts now referred to serve to show us that, in the case of the two
higher groups--mammalia and birds--almost all the characters by which species are distinguished
from each other are, or may be, adaptive. It is these two classes of animals which have been
most studied and whose life-histories are supposed to be most fully known, yet even here the
assertion of inutility, by an eminent naturalist, in the case of two important organs, has
been sufficiently met by minute details either in the anatomy or in the habits of the groups
referred to. Such a fact as this, together with the extensive series of characters already
enumerated which have been of late years transferred from the "useless" to the "useful" class,
should convince us, that the assertion of "inutility" in the case of any organ or peculiarity
which is not a rudiment or a correlation, is not, and can never be, the statement of a fact,
but merely an expression of our ignorance of its purpose or origin.[45]

Instability of Non-adaptive Characters.

One very weighty objection to the theory that specific characters can ever be wholly useless
(or wholly unconnected with useful organs by correlation of growth) appears to have been overlooked
by those who have maintained the frequency of such characters, and that is, their almost necessary
instability. Darwin has remarked on the extreme variability of secondary sexual characters--such
as the horns, crests, plumes, etc., which are found in males only,--the reason being, that,
although of some use, they are not of such direct and vital importance as those adaptive characters
on which the wellbeing and very existence of the animals depend. But in the case of wholly
useless structures, which are not rudiments of once useful organs, we cannot see what there
is to ensure any amount of constancy or stability. But it is expressly stated that they are
not constant; they appear "frequently," or "occasionally," they are "not strictly inherited,
for they occur or fail in animals of the same litter;" and they are not always symmetrical,
sometimes appearing on one side of the face alone. Now whatever may be the cause or explanation
of these anomalous appendages they cannot be classed with "specific characters," the most essential
features of which are, that they are symmetrical, that they are inherited, and that they are
constant. Admitting that this peculiar appendage is (as Mr. Romanes says rather confidently,
"we happen to know it to be") wholly useless and meaningless, the fact would be rather an argument
against specific characters being also meaningless, because the latter never have the characteristics
which this particular variation possesses.

These useless or non-adaptive characters are, apparently, of the same nature as the "sports"
that arise in our domestic productions, but which, as Mr. Darwin says, without the aid of selection
would soon disappear; while some of them may be correlations with other characters which are
or have been useful. Some of these correlations are very curious. Mr. Tegetmeier informed Mr.
Darwin that the young of white, yellow, or dun-coloured pigeons are born almost naked, whereas
other coloured pigeons are born well clothed with down. Now, if this difference occurred between
wild species of different colours, it might be said that the nakedness of the young could not
be of any use. But the colour with which it is correlated might, as has been shown, be useful
in many ways. The skin and its various appendages, as horns, hoofs, hair, feathers, and teeth,
are homologous parts, and are subject to very strange correlations of growth. In Paraguay,
horses with curled hair occur, and these always have hoofs exactly like those of a mule, while
the hair of the mane and tail is much shorter than usual. Now, if any one of these characters
were useful, the others correlated with it might be themselves useless, but would still be
tolerably constant because dependent on a useful organ. So the tusks and the bristles of the
boar are correlated and vary in development together, and the former only may be useful, or
both may be useful in unequal degrees.

The difficulty as to how individual differences or sports can become fixed and perpetuated,
if altogether useless, is evaded by those who hold that such characters are exceedingly common.
Mr. Romanes says that, upon his theory of physiological selection, "it is quite intelligible
that when a varietal form is differentiated from its parent form by the bar of sterility, any
little meaningless peculiarities of structure or of instinct should at first be allowed to
arise, and that they should then be allowed to perpetuate themselves by heredity," until they
are finally eliminated by disuse. But this is entirely begging the question. Do meaningless
peculiarities, which we admit often arise as spontaneous variations, ever perpetuate themselves
in all the individuals constituting a variety or race, without selection either human or natural?
Such characters present themselves as unstable variations, and as such they remain, unless
preserved and accumulated by selection; and they can therefore never become "specific" characters
unless they are strictly correlated with some useful and important peculiarities.

As bearing upon this question we may refer to what is termed Delboeuf's law, which has been
thus briefly stated by Mr. Murphy in his work on Habit and Intelligence, p. 241.

    "If, in any species, a number of individuals, bearing a ratio
    not infinitely small to the entire number of births, are in
    every generation born with a particular variation which is
    neither beneficial nor injurious, and if it is not counteracted
    by reversion, then the proportion of the new variety to the
    original form will increase till it approaches indefinitely near
    to equality."

It is not impossible that some definite varieties, such as the melanic form of the jaguar and
the bridled variety of the guillemot are due to this cause; but from their very nature such
varieties are unstable, and are continually reproduced in varying proportions from the parent
forms. They can, therefore, never constitute species unless the variation in question becomes
beneficial, when it will be fixed by natural selection. Darwin, it is true, says--"There can
be little doubt that the tendency to vary in the same manner has often been so strong that
all the individuals of the same species have been similarly modified without the aid of any
form of selection."[46] But no proof whatever is offered of this statement, and it is so entirely
opposed to all we know of the facts of variation as given by Darwin himself, that the important
word "all" is probably an oversight.

On the whole, then, I submit, not only has it not been proved that an "enormous number of specific
peculiarities" are useless, and that, as a logical result, natural selection is "not a theory
of the origin of species," but only of the origin of adaptations which are usually common to
many species, or, more commonly, to genera and families; but, I urge further, it has not even
been proved that any truly "specific" characters--those which either singly or in combination
distinguish each species from its nearest allies--are entirely unadaptive, useless, and meaningless;
while a great body of facts on the one hand, and some weighty arguments on the other, alike
prove that specific characters have been, and could only have been, developed and fixed by
natural selection because of their utility. We may admit, that among the great number of variations
and sports which continually arise many are altogether useless without being hurtful; but no
cause or influence has been adduced adequate to render such characters fixed and constant throughout
the vast number of individuals which constitute any of the more dominant species.[47]

The Swamping Effects of Intercrossing.

This supposed insuperable difficulty was first advanced in an article in the North British
Review in 1867, and much attention has been attracted to it by the acknowledgment of Mr. Darwin
that it proved to him that "single variations," or what are usually termed "sports," could
very rarely, if ever, be perpetuated in a state of nature, as he had at first thought might
occasionally be the case. But he had always considered that the chief part, and latterly the
whole, of the materials with which natural selection works, was afforded by individual variations,
or that amount of ever fluctuating variability which exists in all organisms and in all their
parts. Other writers have urged the same objection, even as against individual variability,
apparently in total ignorance of its amount and range; and quite recently Professor G.J. Romanes
has adduced it as one of the difficulties which can alone be overcome by his theory of physiological
selection. He urges, that the same variation does not occur simultaneously in a number of individuals
inhabiting the same area, and that it is mere assumption to say it does; while he admits that
"if the assumption were granted there would be an end of the present difficulty; for if a sufficient
number of individuals were thus simultaneously and similarly modified, there need be no longer
any danger of the variety becoming swamped by intercrossing." I must again refer my readers
to my third chapter for the proof that such simultaneous variability is not an assumption but
a fact; but, even admitting this to be proved, the problem is not altogether solved, and there
is so much misconception regarding variation, and the actual process of the origin of new species
is so obscure, that some further discussion and elucidation of the subject are desirable.

In one of the preliminary chapters of Mr. Seebohm's recent work on the Charadriidae, he discusses
the differentiation of species; and he expresses a rather widespread view among naturalists
when, speaking of the swamping effects of intercrossing, he adds: "This is unquestionably a
very grave difficulty, to my mind an absolutely fatal one, to the theory of accidental variation."
And in another passage he says: "The simultaneous appearance, and its repetition in successive
generations, of a beneficial variation, in a large number of individuals in the same locality,
cannot possibly be ascribed to chance." These remarks appear to me to exhibit an entire misconception
of the facts of variation as they actually occur, and as they have been utilised by natural
selection in the modification of species. I have already shown that every part of the organism,
in common species, does vary to a very considerable amount, in a large number of individuals,
and in the same locality; the only point that remains to be discussed is, whether any or most
of these variations are "beneficial." But every one of these variations consists either in
increase or diminution of size or power of the organ or faculty that varies; they can all be
divided into a more effective and a less effective group--that is, into one that is more beneficial
or less beneficial. If less size of body would be beneficial, then, as half the variations
in size are above and half below the mean or existing standard of the species, there would
be ample beneficial variations; if a darker colour or a longer beak or wing were required,
there are always a considerable number of individuals darker and lighter in colour than the
average, with longer or with shorter beaks and wings, and thus the beneficial variation must
always be present. And so with every other part, organ, function, or habit; because, as variation,
so far as we know, is and always must be in the two directions of excess and defect in relation
to the mean amount, whichever kind of variation is wanted is always present in some degree,
and thus the difficulty as to "beneficial" variations occurring, as if they were a special
and rare class, falls to the ground. No doubt some organs may vary in three or perhaps more
directions, as in the length, breadth, thickness, or curvature of the bill. But these may be
taken as separate variations, each of which again occurs as "more" or "less"; and thus the
"right" or "beneficial" or "useful" variation must always be present so long as any variation
at all occurs; and it has not yet been proved that in any large or dominant species, or in
any part, organ, or faculty of such species, there is no variation. And even were such a case
found it would prove nothing, so long as in numerous other species variation was shown to exist;
because we know that great numbers of species and groups throughout all geological time have
died out, leaving no descendants; and the obvious and sufficient explanation of this fact is,
that they did not vary enough at the time when variation was required to bring them into harmony
with changed conditions. The objection as to the "right" or "beneficial" variation occurring
when required, seems therefore to have no weight in view of the actual facts of variation.

Isolation to prevent Intercrossing.

Most writers on the subject consider the isolation of a portion of a species a very important
factor in the formation of new species, while others maintain it to be absolutely essential.
This latter view has arisen from an exaggerated opinion as to the power of intercrossing to
keep down any variety or incipient species, and merge it in the parent stock. But it is evident
that this can only occur with varieties which are not useful, or which, if useful, occur in
very small numbers; and from this kind of variations it is clear that new species do not arise.
Complete isolation, as in an oceanic island, will no doubt enable natural selection to act
more rapidly, for several reasons. In the first place, the absence of competition will for
some time allow the new immigrants to increase rapidly till they reach the limits of subsistence.
They will then struggle among themselves, and by survival of the fittest will quickly become
adapted to the new conditions of their environment. Organs which they formerly needed, to defend
themselves against, or to escape from, enemies, being no longer required, would be encumbrances
to be got rid of, while the power of appropriating and digesting new and varied food would
rise in importance. Thus we may explain the origin of so many flightless and rather bulky birds
in oceanic islands, as the dodo, the cassowary, and the extinct moas. Again, while this process
was going on, the complete isolation would prevent its being checked by the immigration of
new competitors or enemies, which would be very likely to occur in a continuous area; while,
of course, any intercrossing with the original unmodified stock would be absolutely prevented.
If, now, before this change has gone very far, the variety spreads into adjacent but rather
distant islands, the somewhat different conditions in each may lead to the development of distinct
forms constituting what are termed representative species; and these we find in the separate
islands of the Galapagos, the West Indies, and other ancient groups of islands.

But such cases as these will only lead to the production of a few peculiar species, descended
from the original settlers which happened to reach the islands; whereas, in wide areas, and
in continents, we have variation and adaptation on a much larger scale; and, whenever important
physical changes demand them, with even greater rapidity. The far greater complexity of the
environment, together with the occurrence of variations in constitution and habits, will often
allow of effective isolation, even here, producing all the results of actual physical isolation.
As we have already explained, one of the most frequent modes in which natural selection acts
is, by adapting some individuals of a species to a somewhat different mode of life, whereby
they are able to seize upon unappropriated places in nature, and in so doing they become practically
isolated from their parent form. Let us suppose, for example, that one portion of a species
usually living in forests ranges into the open plains, and finding abundance of food remains
there permanently. So long as the struggle for existence is not exceptionally severe, these
two portions of the species may remain almost unchanged; but suppose some fresh enemies are
attracted to the plains by the presence of these new immigrants, then variation and natural
selection would lead to the preservation of those individuals best able to cope with the difficulty,
and thus the open country form would become modified into a marked variety or into a distinct
species; and there would evidently be little chance of this modification being checked by intercrossing
with the parent form which remained in the forest.

Another mode of isolation is brought about by the variety--either owing to habits, climate,
or constitutional change--breeding at a slightly different time from the parent species. This
is known to produce complete isolation in the case of many varieties of plants. Yet another
mode of isolation is brought about by changes of colour, and by the fact that in a wild state
animals of similar colours prefer to keep together and refuse to pair with individuals of another
colour. The probable reason and utility of this habit will be explained in another chapter,
but the fact is well illustrated by the cattle which have run wild in the Falkland Islands.
These are of several different colours, but each colour keeps in a separate herd, often restricted
to one part of the island; and one of these varieties--the mouse-coloured--is said to breed
a month earlier than the others; so that if this variety inhabited a larger area it might very
soon be established as a distinct race or species.[48] Of course where the change of habits
or of station is still greater, as when a terrestrial animal becomes sub-aquatic, or when aquatic
animals come to live in tree-tops, as with the frogs and Crustacea described at p. 118, the
danger of intercrossing is reduced to a minimum.

