Well, mates, Old Goss was a prime sailor; but he was a strange sort of man. To see him in a
passion, was something you wouldn't forget in a hurry; and you wouldn't have known him long
without having the chance. Most of us can swear a bit now and then; but you ought to have heard
Captain Goss! He used even to frighten the old salts, that had common oaths in their mouths
from morning till night. He was worse than the worst madman in Bedlam when his blood was up;
and even the strong, bold men of the crew used to cower before him like as the cabin-boy. And
yet, mates, he was but a little, maimed man, and more than sixty years old. He had a regular
monkey-face; I never saw one like it--brown, and all over puckers, and working and twitching,
like the sea where the tide-currents meet. He had but one eye, and he wore a big black patch
over the place where the other had been; but that one eye, mates, would screw into you like
a gimlet. Well, Captain Goss was more than fifty when he came down to Barking, and bought the
Lively Nan, and made a carrier[1] of her; and nobody knew who he was, or where he came from.
There was an old house at Barking then, and I have heard say that its ruins are there yet.
The boys said that Guy Fawkes--him they burn every 5th of November--used to live there; and
the story went that it was haunted, and that there was one room, the door of which always stood
ajar, and nobody could either open or shut it. Well, mates, Old Captain Goss wasn't the sort
of man to care much about Guy Fawkeses or goblins; so he hires a room in this old house--precious
cheap he got it!--and when he was ashore, you could see a light in it all night; and if you
went near, you might listen to Old Goss singing roaring songs about the brisk boys of the Spanish
main, and yelling and huzzaing to himself, and drinking what he called his five-water grog.
Five-water grog, mates--that was one of his jokes. It was rum made hot on the fire; and he
could drink it scalding and never wink: and he would drink it till he got reg'lar wild. He
was never right-down drunk, but just wild, like a savage beast! And then he would jump up,
and make-believe he was fighting, and holler out to give it to the Spanish dogs, and that there
were lots of doubloons below. I've gone myself with other youngsters, to listen at the door;
and once when he was in the fit, yelling and singing, and laughing and swearing, all at once,
I'm jiggered if he didn't out with a brace of old brass-mounted ship's pistols, and fire them
right and left in the air, so that we cut and run a deal faster than we came. Of course the
report soon got about that Captain Goss was an old pirate, or at the best an old bucaneer;
and the Barking folks used to tell how many crews he had made walk the plank, and how there
was blood-marks on his hands, which he used to try to cover with tar. But no one dared to say
a word of this to him; and as he was a prime sailor, and even kind after his fashion, when
he had taken first a reg'lar quantity of his five-water grog, he never wanted hands. At sea,
he was often wild enough with liquor; but he no sooner put his hand on the tiller, than he
seemed all right: and the Lively Nan walked through it like smoke. I'm jiggered, mates, if
that old fellow couldn't sail a ship asleep or awake, drunk or sober, dead or alive.

Well, then, such was my old captain, Bobby Goss; and now I'll tell you what happened to him.
One evening, in the autumn-time, and just when we were beginning to look out for the equinoctials,
the Lively Nan was lying with her anchor a-peak--for we didn't mean to stay long--in Yarmouth
Roads. There were three men on board, and one boy with myself; they called him Lawrence. I
forget his other name, for I aint seen him for many a year. Well, the men had all turned in
for'ards, and we two were left to wait for the captain, who had gone ashore; and after he came
back, to take our spells at an anchor-watch till daylight, when we were to trip, and be off
to the Dogger. The weather was near a dead calm, and warm for the time of year. The Lively
Nan was lying with her gaff hoisted half-way and the peak settled down, so that we mightn't
lose any time in setting the sail in the morning; and Lawrence and I were lying in the fo'castle,
with our pipes in our mouths, watching the shore, to see if the captain was coming off, and
seeing the sun go down over the sand-hills and the steeples and the wind-mills of Yarmouth.
There weren't many vessels in the Roads; but the Yarmouth galleys, that go dodging about among
the sands, were stretching in for the beach with the last puff of the evening breeze; and the
herring-boats could be seen going off to their ground like specks out upon the sea. Then presently
it got dark, and the town-lights of Yarmouth came sparkling out, the harbour-light the biggest,
and away to the south'ard, the Lowstofft Light-house. But, after all, there aint much amusement
in watching lights, and we both of us wanted to turn in; but till the captain came, there was
no warm blankets for either. So we got wondering what Old Goss was doing at Yarmouth, and what
was keeping him, and whether he'd come aboard drunk or sober, and whether he'd blow us up,
and whether he'd rope's-end us, which was as likely as not, or perhaps more. Well, so hour
after hour passed, and the night was so calm we could hear the chimes of the Yarmouth clocks,
and the water going lap-lap against the sides of the Lively Nan, and the rudder going cheep-cheep
as the sway of the sea stirred it. At last, says Lawrence: 'It's reg'lar dull here; let's go
below.'

'What's the use?' says I: 'there's no light, and the hands are all fast asleep.'

'No,' says he; 'to the captain's cabin I mean. There's a lamp there; and we can hear the oars
of the boat, and be on deck again, and no one the wiser.'

Well, mates, I had some curiosity to get a glimpse of the captain's cabin, where I very seldom
went, and never stayed long: so down we went, lighted up the lamp, and looked about us. There
wasn't much, however, to see. It was a black little hole, with a brass stove and lockers, and
a couple of berths, larboard and starboard, and a small picture of a fore-and-aft rigged schooner,
very low in the water, and looking a reg'lar clipper; and no name to her. Well, mates, all
at once I caught sight of a pack of cards lying on a locker. 'Here's a bit o' fun,' says I;
'Lawry, let's have a game;' and he agreed. So down we sat, and began to play 'put.' A precious
greasy old lot of cards they were; and so many dirt-spots on them, that it required a fellow
with sharp eyes to make out the dirt from the Clubs and Spades. However, we got on somehow.
When one was ready to play, he knocked the table with his knuckles, as a signal to the other;
and for hours and hours we shuffled and dealt and knocked until it was late in the night, which
I ought to have told you was Saturday night. At last, just as we ended a game, and when we
were listening if a boat was coming, before beginning another, we heard the Yarmouth clocks
ring twelve.

'Put up the cards,' says Lawrence; 'I'll not play more.'

'Why not?' says I.

'Because,' says he, and he stammered a little--'because it's Sunday.'

Well, mates, I had forgotten all my notions of that kind, and so I laughed at him. But it was
no use.

'Them,' says he, 'that plays cards on a Sunday, runs a double chance of death on Monday.'

His mother had told him this, and so he refused out-and-out to go on. 'Well,' says I, 'I aint
afraid, and I'd play if I had a partner.'

Mates! the cards were lying in a pack, and the words were hardly out of my mouth, before they
slipped down, and spread themselves out upon the table! Lawrence gave a loud screech, and jumped
up. 'Oh!' says he, 'it's the Old Un with us in the cabin!' and up the companion he tumbled,
and I at his heels; and rushed for'ard as hard as we could pelt, and cuddled under the foresail--which
was lying on the deck--all trembling and shaking, and our teeth chattering.

'I told you what it would be,' says Lawrence.

'I'll never play cards again,' says I, 'on a Sunday!'

Just at that minute we heard oars, and then a hail: 'The Lively Nan, ahoy!' It was Old Goss's
voice, and it was so thick, we knew he wasn't sober. So we slunk out, all trembling and clinging
to each other. The lamp was burning up the cabin skylight, but we were afraid to look down.
But if we didn't look, we could not help hearing; and sure enough there was the rap of knuckles
on the table, as if Somebody was impatient that his partner didn't play. Well, we were more
dead than alive when the captain came alongside in a shore-boat, and tumbled up the side, abusing
the boatmen for the price he had to pay them. He had a lantern, and noticed the state we were
in at once.

'Now, then,' says he, 'you couple of young swabs, what are ye standing grinning there for,
like powder-monkeys in the aguer? What's come over you, ye twin pair of snivelling Molly Coddles?'
We looked at each other, but we were afraid to speak. 'What is it?' he roared again, 'or I'll
make your backs as hot as a roasted pig's!' And on this, Lawrence reg'larly blubbered out:
'The devil, sir; the devil is in the cabin playing at double dummy "put!"'

You should have heard Old Goss's laugh at this. They might have heard it ashore at Yarmouth.
Just as it stopped, the sound of the knuckles came up through the skylight.

'Who's below?' says the captain.

'No one,' says I.

'But Davy Jones,' says Lawrence.

'Then,' says the captain, with an oath that was enough to split the mast, 'I'll play with him!
It's not been the first time, and it mayn't be the last. Go for'ard, you beggars' brats, and
don't disturb us;' and he went down the companion.

But we did not go for'ard. No; we stretched ourselves on the deck, and peeped down the skylight.
We could only see faintly, but we did see the captain sitting, holding his hand of cards, and
another hand opposite, all spread out, but no fingers holding it, and no man behind it. There
was a rap on the table, and I am sure it was not the captain that struck it.

'Very well,' says he; 'wait till I've thought. You're so confounded sharp.'

Then he played, and there was a dark shadow on the table--we did not know what, but it made
our hair stand on end.

'Play fair, Old Un!' says the captain. 'There goes king of trumps. Ha! that's what I thought!
Of course, the devil's own luck--it's a proverb. Well, never say die. There!' and he played again.

But we could stand it no longer. We scrambled to our legs, and the next minute were down in
fo'castle, rousing the men. They were sleepy enough, you may be bound; but we almost lugged
them out of the hammocks. 'Turn out, turn out, shipmates, for God's-sake: the devil's aboard
this ship, and he's playing cards with the captain in the cabin.' At first, mates, the hands
thought we had gone mad; but we both of us told in a breath what we had seen; and so in a minute
or two we all went aft, creeping like cats along the deck. But there was no need. We heard
Old Goss's voice raging like a fury.

'You're a cheat, Old Un,' he was yelling out. 'You cheat all mankind: you've cheated me. Come,
play; double or quits on the first turn-up. What's that? Nine of Spades! Seven of Spades! What!
no trumps? I say, don't you mind the old craft under the line? That's her opposite you; so,
play away.'

'Mates,' says an old salt--his name was Bartholomew Cook--'mates,' says he, 'this is a doomed
ship, an I won't ship for another v'y'ge.'

'Nor I;' 'nor I,' says several, as we crept along.

'He's only mad with drink,' whispered the mate. 'It's all five-water grog.'

'Is it?' said Bartholomew. 'Look down there!'

The men crept to the skylight, and peeped; and so did I. What we saw, not a man forgot the
longest day he lived. The captain was dealing the cards furiously; his face working and swelling;
his hair bristling up; his good eye gleaming, and the patch off the other, the blind one, which
was shining, too, as it were, like a rotten oyster in the dark.

'Play!' roars Goss at last; and then he paused, as if he was thinking of his next card. The
table was rapped. He played; and then quick and furious the cards came down; the captain all
the while raving, shouting, and foaming at the mouth.

'Against me--against me--against me! Avaunt! A man's no match for ye. Ye have all! Lost again!
No; here--stop. On the next card, I stake myself--my ship--my'--

'Stop!' shouted old Bartholomew. He had been standing at the foot of the companion, and he
burst into the cabin. 'Stop, Captain Goss, in the name of God!'

Goss turned round to him. His face was so like the Evil One's that we did not look for any
other. Then a brass-mounted pistol--a shot--and rolling smoke: all passed in a minute. Then
the captain flung a card upon the table, and with a yell like a wild beast, shouted out: 'Lost!'
fell over the cards, extinguished the lamp; and we neither heard nor saw more, till there came
a shuffling on the companion, and Bartholomew crawled out with his face all blackened by the
powder, and the blood trickling from his cheek, where the ball had grazed it. We all went for'ard,
mates, and had a long palaver, and resolved to go ashore at daybreak, and leave a doomed captain
and a doomed ship. But we didn't know our man. In the gray of the morning, we heard the handspike
rattle on the hatch, and we tumbled up one after the other. The captain was there, looking
much as usual, but only paler.

'Man the windlass,' says he.

'We're going ashore, sir,' says Bartholomew firmly.

'How?' says the captain.

'In the boat,' says Bartholomew.

'Are you?' says Goss: 'look at her!' He had cut her adrift, and she was a mile off.

'And now,' says Goss, 'I was drunk last night, and frightened you--playing tricks with cards.
Don't be fools; do your duty, and defy Davy Jones. If not'--And then he flung open his pea-coat,
and we saw four of the brass-mounted pistols in his belt. But, mates, his one eye was worse
than the four muzzles, and we slunk to our work, and obeyed him. The easterly breeze came fresh,
and we were soon bowling away nor'ard. The captain stood long at the helm, and we gathered
for'ard. 'We're lost!' said Bartholomew; 'we're lost men! We're bought and sold!'

'Bartholomew,' shouts the captain, 'come and take the helm!' He went aft, mates, like a lamb;
and the captain walked for'ards, and looked at us, one after another; and the one eye cowed
us. We were not like men; and he was our master. When he went below, we grouped together, and
looked out to windward. It was getting black--black; the wind was coming off in gusts; and
the Lively Nan began to dance to the seas that came rolling in from the eastward. 'The equinoctial!'
we says one to another. In an hour more, mates, all the sky to windward was like a big sheet
of lead; with white clouds, like feathers, driving athwart it--the clouds, as it were, whiter
than the firmament. You know the meaning, mates, of a sky like that; and accordingly, by nightfall,
we had it; and the Lively Nan, under close-reefed main-sail and storm-jib, was groaning, and
plunging, and diving in the seas--the wind blowing, mates, as if it would have wrenched the
mast out of the keelson. Many a gale have I been in, before and since, but that was the worst
of all. Well, mates, we thought we were doomed, but we did our work, silent and steady; and
we kept the smack under a press of canvas that none but such a boat could bear, to claw her
off the lee-shore--off them fearsome sands that lie all along Lincolnshire. Captain Goss was
as bold and cool as ever, and stood by the tiller-tackle, and steered the ship as no hand but
his could do.

It was the gloaming of the night, mates, when the gale came down, heavier and heavier--a perfect
blast, that tore up the very sea, and drove sheets of water into the air. We were a'most blinded,
and clung to cleats and rigging--the sea tumbling over and over us; and the poor, old smack
at length smashed down on her beam-ends. All at once, the mast went over the side; and as we
righted and rose on the curl of a seaway, Bartholomew sung out, loud and shrill: 'Sail, ho!'
We looked. Right to windward, mates, there was a sort of light opening in the clouds; something
of the colour of the ring round the moon in dirty weather, and nigh as round; and in the middle
of it was a smack, driving right down on us, her bowsprit not a cable-length from our broadside.
She looked wondrous like the Lively Nan herself, and some of us saw our own faces clustered
for'ard, looking at ourselves over the bow!

As this notion was passed from one to another, we cried out aloud, that our hour was come.
Captain Goss was in the middle of us. 'Hold your baby screeches,' says he. 'You'll be none
the worse; it's me and the smack she has to do with.' Even, as he spoke, she was on us. Some
fell on their knees, and others clenched their fists and their teeth; but instead of the crash
of meeting timber, we heard but a rustle, and the shadow of her sails flitted, as it were,
across us; and as they passed, the wind was cold, cold, and struck us like frost; and the next
minute the Lively Nan had sunk below our feet, and we found ourselves in the roaring sea, struggling
among the wreck of the mast. The smack was gone, and the strange ship gone, and the gale blowing
steady and strong. One by one, mates, we got astride of the mast, and lashed ourselves with
odds and ends of broken rope; and then we began, as we rose and fell on the sea, to look about
and muster how many we were. The crew, including the captain, was seven hands, but we were
sure there were eight men sitting on the mast. It was too dark to see faces; but you could
see the dark figures clinging to the spar.

'Answer to your names, mates,' says Bartholomew, who somehow took the lead. And so he called
over the list till he came to the captain.

'Captain Goss?'

'Here,' says the captain's voice.

We now knew there was somebody behind him who was not one of the crew. It was too dark, however,
to see distinctly, and Goss interrupted our view such as it was.

'Who is the man on the end of the mast, Captain Goss?' says Bartholomew.

'You might be old enough to guess that!' replied the captain, and his voice was husky-like,
but quite clear; and it never trembled. 'Some men call him one thing, some another; and we
of the sea call him Davy Jones.'

Mates, at that we clustered up together as well as we could, and fixing our eyes on what was
passing at the other end of the mast, we hardly attended to the seas that broke over and over
us. At last, we saw Captain Goss, by the light of the beds of bursting foam, fumbling for something
in his breast.

'Is it a Bible you have there?' cried Bartholomew. The captain didn't answer, but pulled out
the thing he was trying for; and we guessed somehow, for we could hardly see, that it was the
greasy pack of cards.

'Double or quits!' he shouted, 'on all I've staked;' and in another instant there was one horrid,
unearthly screech, like what we heard in the cabin before, and the mast, as it were, tipped
the heel of it, the cross-trees rising many feet above the water. Whether or no it was the
motion of the waves that had tossed it, no man can say; but when the mast rolled again with
the next sea, the heel came up empty: Captain Goss and his companion were gone!

'Thank God,' says Old Bartholomew, 'for Jonah is in the sea.' In less than half an hour, mates,
we were tossed ashore, without a bruise or scratch. We walked the beach till daylight, and
then we saw that the mast had disappeared. None ever saw more a timber or a rope's-end of the
Lively Nan. She had been staked and won; but the greasy cards, mates, lay wet and dank upon
the beach, and we left them to wither there among the sea-weed.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The smacks used to convey the fish from the traulers to the Thames are called 'carriers.'

PARTNERSHIP IN COMMANDITE.

It is a general prejudice, that a subject like the law of partnership is a matter for the legal
profession only, or, at most, for the consideration of capitalists embarked in partnership
business. But it is, in truth, a subject of great interest to the public at large, and especially
to that valuable portion of the community who possess ability and character, and have a little
property--but not much--at stake in the soundness of our institutions. This class have, however,
of late begun to shew a visible interest in the subject--an interest which, had it existed
earlier, might have prevented any of the anomalies of which we complain from increasing to
their present excess.

The political economists have ever admitted the great influence of combined capital: they have
pointed to many valuable operations, such as gas-works, water-works, railways, &c. which can
be performed by combined capital, but are beyond the capacity of individual capitalists. They
have also admitted the efficacy of a division or combination of labour; whether it be that
of the mechanic, or of some higher grade, such as the designer and projector. The views of
the older school of political economists would be in entire concurrence with anything that
would facilitate such combinations, where several men with skill or money take their parts;
as, for instance, where one is the buyer of raw materials, another keeps the accounts, another
draws patterns, and another acts as salesman. On the other hand, some novel speculators go
so much farther, that they would revolutionise society, and, by force, compel it to be organised
into co-operative sections. It infers no sympathy with these wild schemes of destruction, and
artificial reconstruction, to desire that our law should give facility for co-operation and
combination--nay, that it should give to it every encouragement consistent with other interests,
and with civil liberty.

But our law, unfortunately, instead of doing thus, has set heavy impediments in the way of
co-operation; we might speak more strongly, and say, that it has prepared pitfalls, in which
any person guilty of having joined in a co-operative scheme, may at once find himself overwhelmed,
as a punishment for his offence. Invest part of your savings in a company in which you have
reliance; assist a young man, of whose capacity and honesty you think well, by investing money
in his business; and some day you may find yourself ruined for having done so.

Those readers who have turned any attention to this subject, will at once see that we refer
to the law of unlimited responsibility in partnerships. Except when the company proceeds under
an act of parliament, a charter, or patent, limiting the responsibility, every partner is responsible
for the debts and obligations of the concern, to the last farthing he possesses. Very often,
a young man of enterprise and ability, acting as manager, overseer, or in some other respectable
capacity, receives a small share in the profits to encourage him to exertion: he has no control
over the management: some leading man plunges, to serve himself, into dangerous speculations,
and there is a bankruptcy. The young man has done nothing but good service all along to the
partnership, and to its creditors, and all who have had dealings with it; yet, if he have saved
a trifle, it is swept away with the effects of the real speculators. Take another case equally
common: A young man commences business alone, or in company with others: they have intelligence,
ability, and honesty, but little capital. A capitalist, who, perhaps, conducts some larger
business of his own, might, ingrafting kindness on prudential considerations, be inclined to
embark with them to a certain extent; but he finds, that instead of a prudential step, nothing
could be more thoroughly imprudent. He will have to embark not only the small sum he destined
for the purpose, but his whole fortune. Dealers who have transactions with the young partners,
will know that a man of fortune is 'at their back,' as it is termed, and will give them credit
and encouragement accordingly. Without being conscious of any dishonesty, the firm will be
led to trade, not on the capital which their friend has advanced, but on the capital which
he possesses. Of course, they do not intend that he should lose his fortune, any more than
that they themselves should lose their business and pecuniary means. But these things happen
against people's intentions and inclinations; and the friend who wished to aid them with a
moderate and cautious advance, is ruined; while those who were giving reckless credit, and
who encouraged dangerous speculations, are paid cent. per cent. It is the fear of such a consummation
as this that generally makes the well-intending friend abstain from ultimately committing himself
with those with whom he would have fain co-operated.

It is quite right that trading companies should not trade on false resources, and be able to
laugh at their creditors by placing out of the reach of the law the funds with which they have
speculated. Yet this can be done under the present system; and there is a class of men in the
commercial world, banded together by peculiar ties and interests, who are said to accomplish
it on a large and comprehensive scale. It is thus carried out: A penniless man starts in business,
supplied with abundant capital by his friends: they may demand 6, 7, or 10 per cent. for the
use of it; and if they manage, which they may, to avoid the residue of the law of usury, they
are safe from the law of partnership. The new man, by his prompt payments and abundant command
of capital, works himself into good credit. It is an understanding, that when he has been thus
set afloat, the money advanced by his friends is to be gradually repaid. He is then left to
swim or sink. If the former be his fate, it is well for all parties; if the latter, his friends
will not be the sufferers: their capital is preserved, and they can play the same game over
again, in some other place, with the hope of an equally happy result.

The same modifications of the law which would free partnership of its terrors would be only
naturally accompanied with safeguards to protect the public against such schemes as these.
In France, America, and many other countries, there is a system of partnership, with limited
responsibility, known by the name of 'Partnership in Commandite.' Even with us, limited responsibility
is by no means unknown. It is, however, granted capriciously and unsystematically, without
those checks and regulations which, if there were a general system, would be adopted to make
it safe and effective. 'I wish,' said Mr Duncan, a solicitor, when examined before the Select
Committee on the Law of Partnership, 'to draw the attention of the committee first to this
simple fact--that all the railway, gas, and water and dock companies, and all the telegraph
companies, as a matter of course, have limited liability. It is impossible to trace why they
have got it, but they have got it as a habit, and for any extent of capital they desire. Whether
a project be to make a railway from one small place to another, or to provide gas to supply
any town, great or small, all those companies, as a matter of course, come to the legislature
and ask for, and obtain, limited liability. They are commercial companies, and one cannot trace
the reason why they should have limited liability a bit more than any other company--but it is so.'

Here we have at least a precedent, which is of importance in a country like this, so truly
conservative in the sense of adhering to anything that is fixed law or matter of traditional
business routine. Now, in these concerns, where there is often so much wild speculation and
mismanagement, no one is responsible beyond the subscribed stock; yet while we hear enough
of the stockholders themselves losing their property, we seldom, scarcely ever, hear of the
creditors who deal with them, in contracting for their works or otherwise, losing. The reason
is, because the extent to which they can pay is known, and the people who deal with the company
calculate accordingly. Unlimited liability existing in some indefinite parties, while it too
often ruins these parties themselves, is a bait for that indefinite credit which produces their
ruin, and sometimes leaves the careless creditor unpaid, even when he has taken the last farthing
from the unfortunate partner.

In the commandite partnerships, however, the restriction of liability does not apply to all
the shareholders, as in the case of our great joint-stock companies. Full responsibility alights
only on those partners who take it upon them, who have an interest in the profits measured
by their responsibility, and who are known to the world to be so responsible. With regard to
those whose responsibility is said to be limited, it would be more accurate to say, that they
have no responsibility at all: there is a fixed sum which they have invested in the concern--they
may lose it, but it is there already; and there is nothing for which they have, properly speaking,
to be responsible. The method adopted in France may be described thus:--There is a private
act or contract, in which are given the names of the partners, and the sums contributed by
them. The names of the gérants, or those who, as ostensible conductors of the business, are
to be responsible to the whole extent of their property, are then published. With regard to
those who put in money without incurring farther responsibility, it is only necessary to publish
the sums contributed by them: no farther information regarding them would be of any use, unless
to their fellow-partners, who would perhaps like to know if the concern is patronised by men
of sense, and they may satisfy themselves by looking at the deed of partnership. Now, there
is perfect fairness in all this. The public know the persons who agree to take the full responsibility;
they know also the amount of money put into their hands by other parties. In deciding whether
they shall deal or not with this body, they are not perplexed by mysterious visions of possible
rich unknowns who may be brought in for the company's obligations. We cannot see that such
an arrangement is in the least unfair, and we are convinced that it would be productive of
great good. The subscribers with limited responsibility, or commanditaires, as they are called,
are not cut off from all control over the management of their funds: it is their own fault
if they join a commandite company where they are not allowed to inspect the books, and check
rashness or extravagance.

