BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

No. CCCXL. FEBRUARY 1844. Vol. LV.

CONTENTS:

    THE HERETIC
    THRUSH-HUNTING. BY ALEXANDER DUMAS
    HIGH LIFE IN THE LAST CENTURY
    NEWS FROM AN EXILED CONTRIBUTOR
    THE PROPHECY OF THE TWELVE TRIBES
    A BEWAILMENT FROM BATH; OR, POOR OLD MAIDS
    MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN. PART VIII.
    SECESSION FROM THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND
    SITTING FOR A PORTRAIT
    MY FRIEND
    THE LAND OF SLAVES
    THE PRIEST'S BURIAL
    PRUDENCE
    FREE TRADE AND PROTECTION

             *       *       *       *       *

                         EDINBURGH:

         WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS, 45, GEORGE STREET;
                 AND 22, PALL-MALL, LONDON.

      To whom all Communications (post paid) must be addressed.

       SOLD BY ALL THE BOOKSELLERS THE UNITED KINGDOM.

             *       *       *       *       *

        PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE AND HUGHES, EDINBURGH.

             *       *       *       *       *

THE HERETIC.[1]

    [1] The Heretic. Translated from the Russian of Lajétchnikoff. By
    T.B. Shaw, B.A. of Cambridge. In three volumes.

It is now about three centuries since Richard Chancellor, pilot-major of the fleet which, under
the command of Sir Hugh Willoughby, and by the advice of Sebastian Cabot, set out to discover
a north-east passage to China, carried his ship, the Edward Bonaventura, into Archangel. The
rest of the fleet put into a haven on the coast of Lapland, where all their crews, with the
gallant commander, perished miserably of cold and hunger. Chancellor, accompanied by Master
George Killingworthe, found his way to Moscow, where he was courteously entertained by the
Tsar Iván IV., surnamed the Terrible. On his return to England in 1554, he delivered a friendly
letter from the Tsar to King Edward VI., and announced to the people of England "the discovery
of Muscovy." The English adventurers where mightily astonished by the state and splendour of
the Russian court, and gave a curious account of their intercourse with the tyrant Iván, who
treated them with great familiarity and kindness, though he was perhaps the most atrocious
monster, not excepting the worst of the Roman emperors, that ever disgraced a throne. The Tsar
"called them to his table to receive each a cup from his hand to drinke, and took into his
hand Master George Killingworthe's beard, which reached over the table, and pleasantly delivered
it to the metropolitan, who seeming to bless it, said in Russ, 'This is God's gift;' as indeed
at that time it was not only thicke, broad, and yellow coulered, but in length five foot and
two inches of a size."

Chancellor returned the following year to Moscow, and arranged with the Tsar the commercial
privileges and immunities of a new company of merchant-adventurers who desired to trade with
Muscovy; but in 1556, while on his way home, accompanied by Osep Neped, the first Russian ambassador
to the court of England, their ship was wrecked on our own coast, at Pitsligo bay, where Chancellor
was drowned, with most of the crew; but Osep Neped, who escaped, was conducted with much pomp
to London, and there established on a firmer basis the commercial relations between the two
countries, to which Chancellor's discovery had led, and of which he had laid the foundation.
The commerce thus begun has continued uninterrupted, to the mutual advantage of both nations,
up to this time, and thousands of our countrymen have there gained wealth and distinction,
in commerce, in the arts, in science, and in arms.

But of the twenty-seven millions of men, women, and children who people Great Britain and Ireland,
how many may be presumed to know any thing of Russian literature, or even to have enquired
whether it contains any thing worth knowing? Are there a dozen literary men or women amongst
us who could read a Russian romance, or understand a Russian drama? Dr Bowring was regarded
as a prodigy of polyglot learning, because he gave us some very imperfect versions of Russian
ballads; and we were thankful even for that contribution, from which, we doubt not, many worthy
and well-informed people learned for the first time that Russia produced poets as well as potashes.
Russia has lately lost a poet of true genius, of whom his countrymen are proud, and no doubt
have a right to be proud, for his poetry found its way at once to the heart of the nation:
but how few there are amongst us who know any thing of Poushkin, unless it be his untimely
and melancholy end?

The generation that has been so prolific of prose fiction in other parts of Europe, has not
been barren in Russia. She boasts of men to whom she is grateful for having adorned her young
literature with the creations of their genius, or who have made her history attractive with
the allurements of faithful fiction, giving life, and flesh, and blood to its dry bones; and
yet, gentle reader, learned or fair--or both fair and learned--whether sombre in small clothes,
or brilliant in bas-bleus--how many could you have named a year ago of those names which are
the pride and delight of a great European nation, with which we have had an intimate, friendly,
and beneficial intercourse for three consecutive centuries, and whose capital has now for some
years been easily accessible in ten days from our own?

Surely it is somewhat strange, that while Russia fills so large a space, not only on the map,
but in the politics of the world--while the influence of her active mind, and of her powerful
muscle, is felt and acknowledged in Europe, Asia, and America--that we, who come in contact
with her diplomatic skill and her intelligence at every turn and in every quarter, should never
have thought it worth while to take any note of her literature--of the more attractive movements
of her mind.

The history, the ancient mythology, and the early Christian legends of Russia, are full of
interest. We there encounter the same energetic and warlike people, who, from roving pirates
of the Baltic sea, became the founders of dynasties, and who have furnished much of what is
most romantic in the history of Europe. The Danes, who ravaged our coasts, and gave a race
of princes to England; the Normans, from whom are descended our line of sovereigns, and many
of our noble and ancient families--the Normans, who established themselves in Sicily and the
Warrhag, or Varangians, who made their leader, Rurik, a sovereign over the ancient Sclavonic
republic of Nóvgorod, and gave their own distinctive appellation of Russ to the people and
to the country they conquered, were all men of the same race, the same habits, and the same
character. The daring spirit of maritime adventure, the love of war, and the thirst of plunder,
which brought their barks to the coasts of Britain and of France, was displayed with even greater
boldness in Russia. After the death of Rurik, these pirates of the Baltic, under the regent
Oleg, launching their galleys on the Borysthenes, forced the descent of the river against hostile
tribes, defeated the armies of Byzantium, exercised their ancient craft on the Black sea and
on the Bosphorus, and, entering Constantinople in triumph, extorted tribute and a treaty from
the Keisar in his palace.

Then, after a time, came the introduction of the Christian religion and of letters; and the
contests which terminated in the triumph of Christianity over the ancient mythology, in which
the milder deities of the Pantheon, with their attendant spirits of the woods, the streams,
and the household hearth, would seem to have mingled with the fiercer gods of the Valhalla.
Then the frequent contests and varying fortunes of the principalities into which the country
was divided--the invasions of the Tartar hordes, under the successors of Chenjez Khan, destroying
every living thing, and deliberately making a desert of every populous place, that grass might
more abound for their horses and their flocks--the long and weary domination of these desolating
masters; the gradual relaxation of the iron gripe with which they crushed the country; the
pomp and power of the Russian church, even in the worst times of Tartar oppression; the first
gathering together of the nation's strength as its spirit revived; the first great effort to
cast off the load under which its loins had been breaking for more than two centuries, and
the desperate valour with which the Russians fought their first great battle for freedom and
their faith, and shook the Tartar supremacy, under the brave and skilful Dimítri, on the banks
of the Don--the cautious wisdom and foresight with which he created an aristocracy to support
the sovereignty he had made hereditary--the pertinacity with which, in every change of fortune,
his successors worked out slowly, and more by superior intelligence than by prowess, the deliverance
of their country--the final triumph of this wary policy, under the warlike, but consummately
able and dexterous management of Iván the Great--the rapidity and force with which the Muscovite
power expanded, when it had worn out and cast off the Tartar fetters that had bound it--the
cautious and successful attempts of Iván to take from the first a high place amongst the sovereigns
of Europe--the progress in the arts of civilized life which was made in his reign--the accession
of weight and authority which the sovereign power received from the prudent and dignified demeanour
of his son and successor--the sanguinary tyranny with which Iván IV., in the midst of the most
revolting atrocities and debaucheries, broke down the power of the aristocracy, prostrated
the energies of the nation, and paved the way for successive usurpations--the skilful and crafty
policy, and the unscrupulous means by which Boris raised himself to the throne, after he had
destroyed the last representatives of the direct line of Rurik, which, in all the vicissitudes
of Russian fortune, had hitherto held the chief place in the nation--the taint of guilt which
poisoned and polluted a mind otherwise powerful, and not without some virtues, and made him
at length a suspicious and cruel tyrant, who, having alienated the good-will of the nation,
was unable to oppose the pretensions of an impostor, and swallowed poison to escape the tortures
of an upbraiding conscience--the successful imposture of the monk who personated the Prince
Dimítri, one of the victims of Boris' ambition, and who was slaughtered on the day of his nuptials
at the foot of the throne he had so strangely usurped, by an infuriated mob; not because he
was known to be an impostor, but because he was accused of a leaning to the Latin church--the
season of anarchy that succeeded and led to fresh impostures, and to the Polish domination--the
servile submission of the Russian nobility to Sigismund, king of Poland, to whom they sold
their country; the revival of patriotic feelings, almost as soon as the sacrifice had been
made--the bold and determined opposition of the Russian church to the usurpation of a Latin
prince, the persecutions, the hardships, the martyrdom it endured; the ultimate rising of the
Muscovite people at its call--the sanguinary conflict in Moscow; the expulsion of the Poles;
the election of Michael Romanoff, the first sovereign of his family and of the reigning dynasty--the
whole history of the days of Peter, of Catharine, and of Alexander, and even the less prominent
reigns of intermediate sovereigns--are full of the interest and the incidents which are usually
considered most available to the writers of historical romance.

But such materials abound in the history of every people. Men of genius for the work find them
scattered every where--in the peculiarities of personal character developed in the contests
of petty tribes or turbulent burghers, as often as in the revolutions of empires. The value
of historical, as well as of other fictions, must be measured by the power and the skill it
displays, rather than by the magnitude of the events it describes, or the historical importance
of the persons it introduces; and therefore no history can well be exhausted for the higher
purposes of fiction. Of what historical importance are the stories on which Shakspeare has
founded his Romeo and Juliet--his Othello--his Hamlet, or his Lear? Does the chief interest
or excellence of Waverley, or Ivanhoe, or Peveril of the Peak, or Redgauntlet, or Montrose,
depend on the delineation of historical characters, or the description of historical events?
What space do Balfour of Burleigh, or Rob Roy, or Helen Macgregor, fill in history? The fact
appears to be, that, even in the purest historical prose fictions, neither the interest nor
the excellence generally depend upon the characters or the incidents most prominent in history.
A man of genius, who calls up princes and heroes from the dust into which they have crumbled,
may delight us with a more admirable representation than our own minds could have furnished
of some one whose name we have long known, and of whose personal bearing, and habits, and daily
thoughts, we had but a vague and misty idea; and acknowledging the fidelity of the portrait
we may adopt it; and then this historical person becomes to us what the imagination of genius,
not what history, has made him, and yet the portrait is probably one in which no contemporary
could have recognized any resemblance to the original. But the characters of which history
has preserved the most full and faithful accounts, whose recorded actions reflect most accurately
the frame of their minds, are precisely those which each man has pictured to himself with most
precision, and therefore those of which he is least likely to appreciate another man's imaginary
portraits. The image in our own minds is disturbed, and we feel something of the disappointment
we experience when we find some one of whom we have heard much very different from what we
had imagined him to be. The more intimately and generally an historical character is known,
the more unfit must it be for the purposes of fiction.

Then again, in fiction, as in real life, our sympathies are more readily awakened, and more
strongly moved, by the sufferings or the successes of those with whom we have much in common--of
whose life we are, or fancy that we might have been, a part. The figures that we see in history
elevated above the ordinary attributes of man, are magnified as we see them through the mist
of our own vague perceptions, and dwindle if we approach too near them. If they are brought
down from the lofty pedestal of rank or fame on which they stood, that they may be within reach
of the warmest sympathies of men who live upon a lower level, the familiarity to which we are
admitted impairs their greatness, on the same principle, that "no man is a hero to his valet-de-chambre."

We are inclined to believe that the great attraction of historical prose fiction is not any
facility which it affords for the construction of a better story--for we think it affords none--nor
any superior interest that attaches to the known and the prominent characters with which it
deals, or to the events it describes; but rather the occasion it gives for making us familiar
with the everyday life of the age and the country in which the scene is laid. Independent of
the merits of the fiction as a work of imagination, we find another source of pleasure; and,
if it be written faithfully and with knowledge, of instruction in the vivid light it casts
on the characteristics of man's condition, which history does not deign to record. This kind
of excellence may give value to a work which is defective in the higher essential qualifications
of imaginative writing; as old ballads and tales, which have no other merit, may be valuable
illustrations of the manners of their time, so by carefully collecting and concentrating scattered
rays, a man possessed of talents for the task may throw a strong light on states of society
that were formerly obscure, and thus greatly enhance the pleasure we derive from any higher
merits we may find in his story.

M. Lajétchnikoff, in the work before us, appears to have aimed at both these kinds of excellence;
and, in the opinion of his countrymen, to have attained to that of which they are the best
or the only good judges. Mr Shaw, to whom we are indebted for all we yet know of this department
of Russian literature, tells us in his preface that he selected this romance for translation
because--

  "It is the work of an author to whom all the critics have adjudged
  the praise of a perfect acquaintance with the epoch which he has
  chosen for the scene of his drama. Russian critics, some of whom have
  reproached M. Lajétchnikoff with certain faults of style, and in
  particular with innovations on orthography, have all united in
  conceding to him the merit of great historical accuracy--not only as
  regards the events and characters of his story, but even in the less
  important matters of costume, language, &c.

  "This degree of accuracy was not accidental: he prepared himself for
  his work by a careful study of all the ancient documents calculated
  to throw light upon the period which he desired to recall--a
  conscientious correctness however, which may be pushed too far; for
  the original work is disfigured by a great number of obsolete words
  and expressions, as unintelligible to the modern Russian reader
  (unless he happened to be an antiquarian) as they would be to an
  Englishman. These the Translator has, as far as possible, got rid of,
  and has endeavoured to reduce the explanatory foot-notes--those
  'blunder-marks,' as they have been well styled--to as small a number
  as is consistent with clearness in the text."

M. Lajétchnikoff takes occasion, while referring to some anachronisms which will be found in
The Heretic, to state, in the following terms, his opinion of the duties of an historical novelist--

  "He must follow rather the poetry of history than its chronology. His
  business is not to be the slave of dates; he ought to be faithful to
  the character of the epoch, and of the dramatis personae which he
  has selected for representation. It is not his business to examine
  every trifle, to count over with servile minuteness every link in the
  chain of this epoch, or of the life of this character; that is the
  department of the historian and the biographer. The mission of the
  historical novelist is to select from them the most brilliant, the
  most interesting events, which are connected with the chief personage
  of his story, and to concentrate them into one poetic moment of his
  romance. Is it necessary to say that this moment ought to be pervaded
  by a leading idea?... Thus I understand the duties of the historical
  novelist. Whether I have fulfilled them, is quite another question."

We are not quite sure what is here meant by "a leading idea." If it be that some abstract idea
is to be developed or illustrated, we can neither subscribe to the canon nor discover the leading
idea of this specimen of the author's productions; but we rather suppose that he only means
to say that there should be a main stream of interest running through the whole story, to which
the others are tributary--and in this sense he has acted on the rule; for the heretic, from
his birth to his burial, is never lost sight of, and almost the whole action, from the beginning
to the end, is either directly or indirectly connected with his fortunes, which preserve their
interest throughout, amidst sovereigns and ambassadors, officials and nobles, court intrigues
and affairs of state, of love, of war, and of religion. This machinery, though somewhat complicated,
is on the whole very skilfully constructed, and moves on smoothly enough without jolting or
jarring, without tedious stops or disagreeable interruptions, and without having to turn back
every now and then to pick up the passengers it has dropped by the way. The author, however,
appears to have assumed--and, writing for Russians, was entitled to assume--that his readers
had some previous acquaintance with the history of the country and the times to which his story
belongs. His prologue, which has no connexion with the body of the work, but which relates
a separate incident that occurred some years after the conclusion of the principal narrative,
introduces us to the death-bed of Iván III., at whose court the whole of the subsequent scenes
occur; and is calculated from this inversion of time, and the recurrence of similar names,
and even of the same persons, to create little confusion in the mind of the reader who is ignorant
of Russian history.

  "The epoch chosen by Lajétchnikoff," says his translator, "is the
  fifteenth century; an age most powerfully interesting in the history
  of every country, and not less so in that of Russia. It was then that
  the spirit of enquiry, the thirst for new facts and investigations in
  religious, political, and physical philosophy, was at once stimulated
  and gratified by the most important discoveries that man had as yet
  made, and extended itself far beyond the limits of what was then
  civilized Europe, and spoke, by the powerful voice of Iván III., even
  to Russia, plunged as she then was in ignorance and superstition.
  Rude as are the outlines of this great sovereign's historical
  portrait, and rough as were the means by which he endeavoured to
  ameliorate his country, it is impossible to deny him a place among
  those rulers who have won the name of benefactors to their native
  land."

When Iván III., then twenty-two years old, mounted the tributary throne of Muscovy in 1462,
the power of the Tartars, who for nearly two centuries and a half domineered over Russia, had
visibly declined. Tamerlane, at the head of fresh swarms from the deserts of Asia, had stricken
the Golden Horde which still held Russia in subjection; and having pursued its sovereign, Ioktamish
Khan, into the steppes of Kiptchak and Siberia, turned back almost from the gates of Moscow,
to seek a richer plunder in Hindostan. Before the Golden Horde could recover from this blow,
it was again attacked, defeated, and plundered, by the khan of the Crimea. Still the supremacy
of the Tartar was undisputed at Moscow. The Muscovite prince advanced to the outer door of
his palace to receive the ambassador of his master; spread costly furs under his horse's feet;
kneeled at his stirrup to hear the khan's orders read; presented a cup of kimmis to the Tartar
representative, and licked off the drops that fell upon the mane of his horse.

But during nearly a century and a half, the Muscovite princes had laboured successfully to
consolidate their own authority, and to unite the nation against its oppressors. The principle
of hereditary succession to the dependent throne had been firmly established in the feelings
of the people; the ties of country, kindred, and language, and still more the bonds of common
religion, had united the discordant principalities into which the country was still divided,
by a sentiment of nationality and of hatred against the Tartars, which made them capable of
combining against their Mahommedan masters.

Iván's first acts were acts of submission. They were perhaps intended to tranquillize the suspicions
with which the first movements of a young prince are certain to be regarded by a jealous superior;
and this purpose they effectually served. Without courage or talent for war, his powerful and
subtle mind sought to accomplish its objects by intellectual superiority and by craft, rather
than by force. Warned by the errors of his predecessors, he did not dispute the right of the
Tartars to the tribute, but evaded its payment; and yet contrived to preserve the confidence
of the khan by bribing his ministers and his family, and by a ready performance of the most
humiliating acts of personal submission. His conduct towards all his enemies--that is, towards
all his neighbours--was dictated by a similar policy; he admitted their rights, but he took
every safe opportunity to disregard them. So far did he carry the semblance of submission,
that the Muscovites were for some years disgusted with the slavish spirit of their prince.
His lofty ambition was concealed by rare prudence and caution, and sustained by remarkable
firmness and pertinacity of purpose. He never took a step in advance from which he was forced
to recede. He had the art to combine with many of his enemies against one, and thus overthrew
them all in succession. It was by such means that he cast off the Tartar yoke--curbed the power
of Poland--humbled that of Lithuania, subdued Nóvgorod, Tver, Pskoff, Kazán, and Viatka--reannexed
Veira, Ouglitch, Rezan, and other appanages to the crown, and added nearly twenty thousand
square miles with four millions of subjects to his dominions. He framed a code of laws--improved
the condition of his army--established a police in every part of his empire--protected and
extended commerce--supported the church, but kept it in subjection to himself; but was at all
times arbitrary, often unjust and cruel, and throughout his whole life, quite unscrupulous
as to the means he employed to compass his ends.

One of the most successful strokes of his policy, was his marriage with Sophia, daughter of
the Emperor Paleologos, who had been driven from Constantinople by the Turks. This alliance,
which he sought with great assiduity, not only added to the dignity of his government at home,
but opened the way for an intercourse on equal terms with the greatest princes of Europe. It
was Sophia who dissuaded him from submitting to the degrading ceremonial which had been observed
on receiving the Tartar ambassadors at Moscow--and to her he probably owed the feelings of
personal dignity which he evinced in the latter part of his reign. It was this alliance that
at once placed the sovereigns of Russia at the head of the whole Greek church; whose dignitaries,
driven from the stately dome of St Sophia in Byzantium, found shelter in the humbler temple
raised by the piety of their predecessors, some ages before, in the wilds of Muscovy, and more
than repaid the hospitality they received by diffusing a love of learning amongst a barbarous
people. It was by means of the Greeks who followed Sophia, that Iván was enabled to maintain
a diplomatic intercourse with the other governments of Europe; it was from her that Russia
received her imperial emblem, the double-headed eagle; it was in her train that science, taste,
and refinement penetrated to Moscow; it was probably at her instigation that Iván embellished
his capital with the beauties of architecture, and encouraged men of science, and amongst others
Antonio, "the heretic," and Fioraventi Aristotle, the architect and mechanician, to settle
at Moscow.

But it is time we should proceed to the story. The greater part of the first volume is occupied
by an account of the family, birth, and youth of the hero. Born of a noble family in Bohemia,
he is educated as a physician. This was not the voluntary act of his parents; for what haughty
German baron of those times would have permitted his son to degrade himself by engaging in
a profession which was then chiefly occupied by the accursed Jews? No, this was a degradation
prepared for the house of Ehrenstein, by the undying revenge of a little Italian physician,
whom the stalwart baron had pitched a few yards out of his way during a procession at Rome.
This part of the history, though not devoid of interest, is hardly within the bounds of a reasonable
probability--but it contains some passages of considerable vigour. The patient lying in wait
of the revengeful Italian, and the eagerness with which he presses his advantage, making an
act of mercy minister to the gratification of his passion, is not without merit, and will probably
have its attractions for those who find pleasure in such conceptions.

The young Antonio is educated by the physician, Antonio Fioraventi of Padua, in ignorance of
his birth--is disowned by his father, but cherished by his mother; and grows up an accomplished
gentleman, scholar, and leech, of handsome person, captivating manners, and ardent aspirations
to extend the limits of science, and to promote the advancement of knowledge and of civilization
all over the earth. While these dreams are floating in his mind, a letter on the architect
Fioraventi, who had for some time resided in Moscow, to his brother, the Italian physician,
requesting him to send some skilful leech to the court of Iván, decides the fate of Antonio.

  "Fioraventi began to look out for a physician who would volunteer
  into a country so distant and so little known: he never thought of
  proposing the journey to his pupil; his youth--the idea of a
  separation--of a barbarous country--all terrified the old man. His
  imagination was no longer wild--the intellect and the heart alone had
  influence on him. And what had Antony to hope for there? His destiny
  was assured by the position of his instructor--his tranquillity was
  secured by circumstances--he could more readily make a name in Italy.
  The place of physician at the court of the Muscovite Great Prince
  would suit a poor adventurer; abundance of such men might be found at
  that time possessed of talents and learning. But hardly was
  Aristotle's letter communicated to Antony, than visions began to
  float in his ardent brain.--'To Muscovy!' cried the voice of
  destiny--'To Muscovy!' echoed through his soul, like a cry remembered
  from infancy. That soul, in its fairest dreams, had long pined for a
  new, distant, unknown land and people: Antony wished to be where the
  physician's foot had never yet penetrated: perhaps he might discover,
  by questioning a nature still rude and fresh, powers by which he
  could retain on earth its short-lived inhabitants; perhaps he might
  extort from a virgin soil the secret of regeneration, or dig up the
  fountain of the water of life and death. But he who desired to
  penetrate deeper into the nature of man, might have remarked other
  motives in his desire. Did not knightly blood boil in his veins? Did
  not the spirit of adventure whisper in his heart its hopes and high
  promises? However this might be, he offered, with delight, to go to
  Muscovy; and when he received the refusal of his preceptor, he began
  to entreat, to implore him incessantly to recall it.--'Science calls
  me thither,' he said, 'do not deprive her of new acquisitions,
  perhaps of important discoveries. Do not deprive me of glory, my only
  hope and happiness.' And these entreaties were followed by a new
  refusal.--'Knowest thou not,' cried Fioraventi angrily, 'that the
  gates of Muscovy are like the gates of hell--step beyond them, and
  thou canst never return.' But suddenly, unexpectedly, from some
  secret motive, he ceased to oppose Antony's desire. With tears he
  gave him his blessing for the journey.--'Who can tell,' said he,
  'that this is not the will of fate? Perhaps, in reality, honour and
  fame await thee there?'

  "At Padua was soon known Antony Ehrenstein's determination to make
  that distant journey; and no one was surprised at it: there were,
  indeed, many who envied him.

  "In truth, the age in which Antony lived was calculated to attune the
  mind to the search after the unknown, and to serve as an excuse for
  his visions. The age of deep profligacy, it was also the age of lofty
  talents, of bold enterprises, of great discoveries. They dug into the
  bowels of the earth; they kept up in the laboratory an unextinguished
  fire; they united and separated elements; they buried themselves
  living, in the tomb, to discover the philosopher's stone, and they
  found it in the innumerable treasures of chemistry which they
  bequeathed to posterity. Nicholas Diaz and Vasco de Gama had passed,
  with one gigantic stride, from one hemisphere to another, and showed
  that millions of their predecessors were but pigmies. The genius of a
  third visioned forth a new world, with new oceans--went to it, and
  brought it to mankind. Gunpowder, the compass, printing, cheap paper,
  regular armies, the concentration of states and powers, ingenious
  destruction, and ingenious creation--all were the work of this
  wondrous age. At this time, also, there began to spread indistinctly
  about, in Germany and many other countries of Europe, those ideas of
  reformation, which soon were strengthened, by the persecution of the
  Western Church, to array themselves in the logical head of Luther,
  and to flame up in that universal crater, whence the fury, lava, and
  smoke, were to rush with such tremendous violence on kingdoms and
  nations. These ideas were then spreading through the multitude, and
  when resisted, they broke through their dikes, and burst onward with
  greater violence. The character of Antony, eager, thirsting for
  novelty, was the expression of his age: he abandoned himself to the
  dreams of an ardent soul, and only sought whither to carry himself
  and his accumulations of knowledge.

  "Muscovy, wild still, but swelling into vigour, with all her
  boundless snows and forests, the mystery of her orientalism, was to
  many a newly-discovered land--a rich mine for human genius. Muscovy,
  then for the first time beginning to gain mastery over her internal
  and external foes, then first felt the necessity for real, material
  civilization."

Antony pays a farewell visit to his mother at the humble tower in Bohemia, where she resided
estranged from his father, of whose rank and condition she left him ignorant.

  "If there were a paradise upon earth, Antony would have found it in
  the whole month which he passed in the Bohemian castle. Oh! he would
  not have exchanged that poor abode, the wild nature on the banks of
  the Elbe, the caresses of his mother, whose age he would have
  cherished with his care and love--no! he would not have exchanged all
  this for magnificent palaces, for the exertions of proud kinsmen to
  elevate him at the imperial court, for numberless vassals, whom, if
  he chose, he might hunt to death with hounds.

  "But true to his vow, full of the hope of being useful to his mother,
  to science, and to humanity, the visionary renounced this paradise:
  his mother blessed him on his long journey to a distant and unknown
  land: she feared for him; yet she saw that Muscovy would be to him a
  land of promise--and how could she oppose his wishes?"

Preceding our hero to Moscow, we are presented to the Great Prince before Antonio's arrival.
Ambassadors had come from Tver, and a Lithuanian ambassador and his interpreter had been truly
or falsely convicted of an attempt to destroy Iván by poison. The Great Prince's enquiry what
punishment is decreed against the felon who reaches at another's life, leads to the following
dialogue:--

  "'In the soudébnik it is decreed,' replied Góuseff, 'whoever shall be
  accused of larceny, robbery, murder, or false accusation, or other
  like evil act, and the same shall be manifestly guilty, the boyárin
  shall doom the same unto the pain of death, and the plaintiff shall
  have his goods; and if any thing remain, the same shall go to the
  boyárin and the deacon.'...

  "'Ay, the lawyers remember themselves--never fear that the boyárin
  and deacon forget their fees. And what is written in thy book against
  royal murderers and conspirators?'

  "'In our memory such case hath not arisen.'

  "'Even so! you lawyers are ever writing leaf after leaf, and never do
  ye write all; and then the upright judges begin to gloze, to
  interpret, to take bribes for dark passages. The law ought to be like
  an open hand without a glove, (the Prince opened his fist;) every
  simple man ought to see what is in it, and it should not be able to
  conceal a grain of corn. Short and clear; and, when needful, seizing
  firmly!... But as it is, they have put a ragged glove on law; and,
  besides, they close the fist. Ye may guess--odd or even! they can
  show one or the other, as they like.'

  "'Pardon, my Lord Great Prince; lo, what we will add to the
  soudébnik--the royal murderer and plotter shall not live.'

  "'Be it so. Let not him live, who reached at another's life.' (Here
  he turned to Kourítzin, but remembering that he was always disinclined
  to severe punishments, he continued, waving his hand,) 'I forgot that
  a craven[2] croweth not like a cock.' (At these words the deacon's
  eyes sparkled with satisfaction.) 'Mamón, be this thy care. Tell my
  judge of Moscow--the court judge--to have the Lithuanian and the
  interpreter burned alive on the Moskvá--burn them, dost thou hear?
  that others may not think of such deeds.'

    [2] A jeu de mots impossible to be rendered in English; Kourítza,
    in Russian, is a 'hen.'"--T.B.S.

  "The dvorétzkoi bowed, and said, stroking his ragged beard--'In a few
  days will arrive the strangers to build the palace, and the Almayne
  leech: the Holy Virgin only knoweth whether there be not evil men
  among them also. Dost thou vouchsafe me to speak what hath come into
  my mind?'

  "'Speak.'

  "'Were it not good to show them an example at once, by punishing the
  criminals before them?'

  "The Great Prince, after a moment's thought, replied--'Aristotle
  answereth for the leech Antony; he is a disciple of his brother's.
  The artists of the palace--foreigners--are good men, quiet men ...
  but ... who can tell!... Mamón, put off the execution till after the
  coming of the Almayne leech; but see that the fetters sleep not on
  the evil doers!'

  "Here he signed to Mamón to go and fulfill his order."

Here is another scene with the Great Prince.

  "He stopped, and turned with an air of stern command to Kourítzin.

  "The latter had addressed himself to speak--'The ambassadors from
  Tver ... from the'....

  "'From the prince, thou wouldst say,' burst in Iván Vassílievitch: 'I
  no longer recognize a Prince of Tver. What--I ask thee, what did he
  promise in the treaty of conditions which his bishop was to
  negotiate?--the bishop who is with us now.'

  "'To dissolve his alliance with the Polish king, Kazimír, and never
  without thy knowledge to renew his intercourse with him; nor with
  thine ill-wishers, nor with Russian deserters: to swear, in his own
  and his children's name, never to yield to Lithuania.'

  "'Hast thou still the letter to King Kazimír from our good
  brother-in-law and ally--him whom thou yet callest the Great Prince
  of Tver?'

  "'I have it, my lord.'

  "'What saith it?'

  "'The Prince of Tver urgeth the Polish King against the Lord of All
  Russia.'

  "'Now, as God shall judge me, I have right on my side. Go and tell
  the envoys from Tver, that I will not receive them: I spoke a word of
  mercy to them--they mocked at it. What do they take me for?... A
  bundle of rags, which to-day they may trample in the mud, and
  to-morrow stick up for a scarecrow in their gardens! Or a puppet--to
  bow down to it to-day, and to-morrow to cast it into the mire, with
  Vuiduibái, father vuiduibái![3] No! they have chosen the wrong man.
  They may spin their traitorous intrigues with the King of Poland, and
  hail him their lord; but I will go myself and tell Tver who is her
  real master. Tease me no more with these traitors!'

    [3] "When Vladímir, to convert the Russians to Christianity, caused
    the image of their idol Peróun to be thrown into the Dniépr, the
    people of Kíeff are said to have shouted 'vuiduibái, bátioushka,
    vuiduibái!'--bátioushka signifies 'father;' but the rest of the
    exclamation has never been explained, though it has passed into a
    proverb."--T.B.S.

  "Saying this, the Great Prince grew warmer and warmer, and at length
  he struck his staff upon the ground so violently that it broke in two.

  "'Hold! here is our declaration of war,' he added--'yet one word more:
  had it bent it would have remained whole.'

  "Kourítzin, taking the fatal fragments, went out. The philosopher of
  those days, looking at them, shook his head and thought--'Even so
  breaketh the mighty rival of Moscow!'"

The Almayne physician is lodged by order of the Great Prince in one of the three stone houses
which Moscow could then boast--the habitation of the voévoda Obrazétz, a fine old warrior,
a venerable patriarch, and bigot, such as all Russians then were. To him the presence of the
heretic is disgusting; his touch would be pollution; and the whole family is thrown into the
utmost consternation by the prospect of having to harbour so foul a guest--a magician, a man
who had sold his soul to Satan--above all, a heretic. The voévoda had an only daughter, who,
with Oriental caution, was carefully screened from the sight of man, as became a high-born
Russian maiden.

  "From her very infancy Providence had stamped her with the seal of
  the marvellous; when she was born a star had fallen on the house--on
  her bosom she bore a mark resembling a cross within a heart. When ten
  years old, she dreamed of palaces and gardens such as eye had never
  seen on earth, and faces of unspeakable beauty, and voices that sang,
  and self-moving dulcimers that played, as it were within her heart,
  so sweetly and so well, that tongue could never describe it; and,
  when she awoke from those dreams, she felt a light pressure on her
  feet, and she thought she perceived that something was resting on
  them with white wings folded; it was very sweet, and yet awful--and
  in a moment all was gone. Sometimes she would meditate, sometimes she
  would dream, she knew not what. Often, when prostrate before the
  image of the Mother of God, she wept; and these tears she hid from
  the world, like some holy thing sent down to her from on high. She
  loved all that was marvellous; and therefore she loved the tales, the
  legends, the popular songs and stories of those days. How greedily
  did she listen to her nurse! and what marvels did the eloquent old
  woman unfold, to the young, burning imagination of her foster child!
  Anastasia, sometimes abandoning herself to poesy, would forget sleep
  and food; sometimes her dreams concluded the unfinished tale more
  vividly, more eloquently far."

We must give the pendant to this picture--the portrait of Obrazétz himself, sitting in his
easy-chair, listening to a tale of travels in the East.

  "How noble was the aged man, free from stormy passions, finishing the
  pilgrimage of life! You seemed to behold him in pure white raiment,
  ready to appear before his heavenly judge. Obrazétz was the chief of
  the party in years, in grave majestic dignity, and patriarchal air.
  Crossing his arms upon his staff, he covered them with his beard,
  downy as the soft fleece of a lamb; the glow of health, deepened by
  the cup of strong mead, blushed through the snow-white hair with
  which his cheeks were thickly clothed; he listened with singular
  attention and delight to the story-teller. This pleasure was painted
  on his face, and shone brightly in his eyes; from time to time a
  smile of good-humoured mockery flitted across his lips, but this was
  only the innocent offspring of irony which was raised in his good
  heart by Aphónia's boasting, (for very few story-tellers, you know,
  are free from this sin.) Reclining his shoulders against the back of
  his arm-chair, he shut his eyes, and, laying his broad hairy hand
  upon Andrióusha's head, he softly, gently dallied with the boy's
  flaxen locks. On his countenance the gratification of curiosity was
  mingled with affectionate tenderness: he was not dozing, but seemed
  to be losing himself in sweet reveries. In the old man's visions
  arose the dear never forgotten son, whom he almost fancied he was
  caressing. When he opened his eyes, their white lashes still bore
  traces of the touching society of his unearthly guest; but when he
  remarked that the tear betraying the secret of his heart had
  disturbed his companions, and made his daughter anxious, the former
  expression of pleasure again dawned on his face, and doubled the
  delighted attention of the whole party."

At length the dreaded guest arrived.

  "Evil days had fallen on Obrazétz and his family. He seemed himself
  as though he had lost his wife and son a second time. Khabár raged
  and stormed like a mountain torrent. Anastasia, hearing the horrible
  stories--is sometimes trembling like an aspen-leaf, and then weeps
  like a fountain. She dares not even look forth out of the sliding
  window of her bower. Why did Vassílii Féodorovitch build such a fine
  house? Why did he build it so near the Great Prince's palace? 'Tis
  clear, this was a temptation of the Evil One. He wanted, forsooth, to
  boast of a nonsuch! He had sinned in his pride.... What would become
  of him, his son and daughter! Better for them had they never been
  born!... And all this affliction arose from the boyárin being about
  to receive a German in his house!"

The voévoda gave strict injunctions that none of his family should go to meet the procession;
but M. Lajétchnikoff knows that all such orders are unavailing.

  "Curiosity is so strong in human nature, that it can conquer even
  fear: notwithstanding the orders of the boyárin, all his servants
  rushed to obtain a glance at the terrible stranger; one at the gate,
  another through the crevices of the wooden fence, another over it.
  Khabár, with his arms haughtily a-kimbo, gazed with stern pride from
  the other gate. Now for the frightful face with mouse's ears, winking
  owlish eyes streaming with fiendish fire! now for the beak! They
  beheld a young man, tall, graceful, of noble deportment, overflowing
  with fresh vigorous life. In his blue eyes shone the light of
  goodness and benevolence through the moisture called up by the recent
  spectacle of the execution: the lips, surmounted by a slight soft
  mustache, bore a good-humoured smile--one of those smiles that it is
  impossible to feign, and which can only find their source in a heart
  never troubled by impure passions. Health and frost had united to
  tinge the cheeks with a light rosy glow; he took off his cap, and his
  fair curls streamed forth over his broad shoulders. He addressed
  Mamón in a few words of such Russian as he knew, and in his voice
  there was something so charming, that even the evil spirit which
  wandered through the boyárin's heart, sank down to its abyss. This,
  then, was the horrible stranger, who had harmed Obrazétz and his
  household! This, then, was he--after all! If this was the devil, the
  fiend must again have put on his original heavenly form. All the
  attendants, as they looked upon him, became firmly convinced that he
  had bewitched their eyes.

  "'Haste, Nástia![4] look how handsome he is!' cried Andrióusha to the
  voevóda's daughter, in whose room he was, looking through the sliding
  window, which he had drawn back. 'After this, believe stupid reports!
  My father says that he is my brother: oh, how I shall love him! Look,
  my dear!'

    [4]Nástia--the diminutive of Anastasia; Nástenka, the same.
    Russian caressing names generally end in sia, sha, óusha, or
    óushka--as Vásia, (for Iván;) Andrióusha, (Andrei;)
    Varpholoméoushka, ( Bartholomew.)"--T.B.S.

  "And the son of Aristotle, affirming and swearing that he was not
  deceiving his godmother, drew her, trembling and pale, to the window.
  Making the sign of the cross, with a fluttering heart she ventured to
  look out--she could not trust her eyes, again she looked out;
  confusion! a kind of delighted disappointment, a kind of sweet thrill
  running through her blood, never before experienced, fixed her for
  some moments to the spot: but when Anastasia recovered herself from
  these impressions, she felt ashamed and grieved that she had given
  way to them. She already felt a kind of repentance. The sorcerer has
  put on a mask, she thought, remembering her father's words: from this
  moment she became more frequently pensive."

We are conducted to the state prisons of Moscow, and introduced to some of the prisoners whose
names have figured in history. We select the following dialogue as a specimen of the author's
power to deal with such matters. The prisoner is Márpha, the lady of Novogorod, who, by her
courage and her wealth, had laboured to preserve its independence.

  "Here the Great Prince rapped with his staff at a grating; at the
  knock there looked out an old roman, who was fervently praying on her
  knees. She was dressed in a much-worn high cap, and in a short veil,
  poor, but white as new-fallen snow; her silver hair streamed over a
  threadbare mantle: it was easy to guess that this was no common woman.
  Her features were very regular, in her dim eyes was expressed
  intellect, and a kind of stern greatness of soul. She looked proudly
  and steadily at the Great Prince.

  "'For whom wert thou praying, Marphóusha?' asked the sovereign.

  "'For whom but for the dead!' she sullenly replied.

  "'But for whom in particular, if I may make bold to ask?'

  "'Ask concerning that of my child, thou son of a dog--of him who was
  called thy brother, whom thou murderedst--of Nóvgorod, which thou
  hast drowned in blood, and covered with ashes!'

  "'O, ho, ho!... Thou hast not forgotten thy folly, then--Lady of
  Nóvgorod the Great.'

  "'I was such once, my fair lord!'

  "At these words she arose.

  "'Wilt thou not think again?'

  "'Of what?... I said that I was praying for the dead. Thy Moscow,
  with all its hovels, can twice a-year be laid in ashes, and twice
  built up again. The Tartar hath held it two ages in slavery.... It
  pined, it pined away and yet it remains whole. It hath but changed
  one bondage for another. But once destroy the queen--Nóvgorod the
  Great--and Nóvgorod the Great will perish for ever.'

  "'How canst thou tell that?'

  "'Can ye raise up a city of hewn stone in a hundred years?'

  "'I will raise one in a dozen.'

  "'Ay, but this is not in the fairy tale, where 'tis done as soon as
  said. Call together the Hanse traders whom thou hast driven away.'

  "'Ha, hucksteress! thou mournest for the traders more than for
  Nóvgorod itself.'

  "'By my huckstering she grew not poor, but rich.'

  "'Let me but jingle a piece of money, and straight will fly the
  merchants from all corners of the world, greedy for my grosches.'

  "'Recall the chief citizens whom thou hast exiled to thy towns.'

  "'Cheats, knaves, rebels! they are not worth this!'

  "'When was power in the wrong? Where is the water of life that can
  revive those thou hast slain? Even if thou couldst do all this,
  liberty, liberty would be no more for Nóvgorod, Iván Vassílievitch;
  and Nóvgorod will never rise again! It may live on awhile like
  lighted flax, that neither flameth nor goeth out, even as I live in a
  dungeon!'

  "'It is thine inflexible obstinacy that hath ruined both of ye. I
  should like to have seen how thou wouldst have acted in my place.'

  "'Thou hast done thy work, Great Prince of Moscow, I--mine. Triumph
  not over me, in my dungeon, at my last hour.'

  "Márpha Borétzkaia coughed, and her face grew livid; she applied the
  end of her veil to her lips, but it was instantly stained with blood,
  and Iván remarked this, though she endeavoured to conceal it.

  "'I am sorry for thee, Márpha,' said the Great Prince in a
  compassionate tone.

  "'Sharp is thy glance.... What! doth it delight thee?... Spread this
  kerchief over Nóvgorod.... 'Twill be a rich pall!'... she added with
  a smile.

  "'Let me in! let me in!... I cannot bear it.... Let me go in to her!'
  cried Andrióusha, bursting into tears.

  "On the Great Prince's countenance was mingled compassion and
  vexation. He, however, lifted the latch of the door, and let the son
  of Aristotle pass in to Borétzkaia.

  "Andrea kissed her hand. Borétzkaia uttered not a word; she
  mournfully shook her head, and her warm tears fell upon the boy's
  face.

  "'Ask him how many years she can live,' said the Great Prince to
  Aristotle, in a whisper.

  "'It is much, much, if she live three months; but, perhaps, 'twill be
  only till spring,' answered Antony. 'No medicine can save her: that
  blood is a sure herald of death.'

  "This reply was translated to Iván Vassílievitch in as low a tone as
  possible, that Borétzkaia might not hear it; but she waved her hand,
  and said calmly--'I knew it long ago'....

  "'Hearken, Márpha Isákovna, if thou wilt, I will give thee thy
  liberty, and send thee into another town.'

  "'Another town ... another place ... God hath willed it so, without
  thee!'

  "'I would send thee to Báyjetzkoi-Verkh.'

  "''Tis true, that was our country. If I could but die in my native
  land!'

  "'Then God be with thee: there thou mayst say thy prayers, give alms
  to the churches; I will order thy treasury to be delivered up to
  thee--and remember not the Great Prince of Moscow in anger.'

  "She smiled. Have you ever seen something resembling a smile on the
  jaws of a human skull?

  "'Farewell, we shall never meet again,' said the Great Prince.

  "'We shall meet at the judgment-seat of God!' was the last reply of
  Borétzkaia."

The daughter of Obrazétz loved the heretic, who was long unconscious of the feelings he had
inspired, and himself untouched by the mysterious fire that was consuming the heart of the
young Anastasia. But his turn, too, had come--he, too, had seen and loved; but she knew not
of his love--she hardly knew the nature of her own feelings; sometimes she feared she was under
the influence of magic, or imagined that the anxiety she felt for the heretic was a holy desire
to turn him from the errors of his faith to save his immortal soul--or, if she knew the truth,
she dared not acknowledge it even to her own heart--far less to any human being. To love a
heretic was a deadly sin; but to save a soul would be acceptable to God--a holy offering at
the footstool of the throne of grace and mercy. This hope would justify any sacrifice. The
great Prince was about to march against Tver, and Antonio was to accompany him. Could she permit
him to depart without an effort to redeem him from his heresy, or, alas! without a token of
her love? She determined to send him the crucifix she wore round her neck--a holy and a sacred
thing, which it would have been a deadly sin to part with unless to rescue a soul from perdition--and
she sent it. Her brother, too, was to accompany the army, and had besides, on his return, to
encounter a judicial combat. The soul of the old warrior Obrazétz was deeply moved by the near
approach of his son's departure. One son had died by his side--he might never see Iván more,
and his heart yearned to join with him in prayer. "The mercies of God are unaccountable."

  "Trusting in them, Obrazétz proceeded to the oratory, whither, by his
  command, he was followed by Khabár and Anastasia.

  "Silently they go, plunged in feelings of awe: they enter the oratory;
  the solitary window is curtained; in the obscurity, feebly dispelled
  by the mysterious glimmer of the lamp, through the deep stillness,
  fitfully broken by the flaring of the taper, they were gazed down
  upon from every side by the dark images of the Saviour, the Holy
  Mother of God, and the Holy Saints. From them there seems to breathe
  a chilly air as of another world: here thou canst not hide thyself
  from their glances; from every side they follow thee in the slightest
  movement of thy thoughts and feelings. Their wasted faces, feeble
  limbs, and withered frames--their flesh macerated by prayer and
  fasting--the cross, the agony--all here speaks of the victory of will
  over passions. Themselves an example of purity in body and soul, they
  demand the same purity from all who enter the oratory, their holy
  shrine.

  "To them Anastasia had recourse in the agitation of her heart; from
  them she implored aid against the temptations of the Evil One; but
  help there was none for her, the weak in will, the devoted to the
  passion which she felt for an unearthly tempter.

  Thrice, with crossing and with prayer, did Obrazétz bow before the
  images; thrice did his son and daughter bow after him. This pious
  preface finished, the old man chanted the psalm--'Whoso dwelleth
  under the defence of the Most High.' Thus, even in our own times,
  among us in Russia, the pious warrior, when going to battle, almost
  always arms himself with this shield of faith. With deep feeling,
  Khabár repeated the words after his father. All this prepared
  Anastasia for something terrible she trembled like a dove which is
  caught by the storm in the open plain, where there is no shelter for
  her from the tempest that is ready to burst above her. When they
  arose from prayer, Obrazétz took from the shrine a small image of St
  George the Victorious, cast in silver, with a ring for suspending it
  on the bosom. 'In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
  Holy Ghost!' he said, with a solemn voice, holding the image in his
  left hand, and with his right making three signs of the cross--'with
  this mercy of God I bless thee, my dear and only son, Iván, and I
  pray that the holy martyr, George, may give thee mastery and victory
  over thine enemies: keep this treasure even as the apple of thine eye.
  Put it not off from thee in any wise, unless the Lord willeth that
  the foe shall take it from thee. I know thee, Ivan, they will not
  take it from thee living; but they may from thy corse. Keep in mind at
  every season thy father's blessing.'

  "Anastasia turned as white as snow, and trembled in every limb; her
  bosom felt oppressed as with a heavy stone, a sound as of hammering
  was in her ears. She seemed to hear all the images, one after another,
  sternly repeating her father's words. He continued--'It is a great
  thing, this blessing. He who remembereth it not, or lightly esteemeth
  it, from him shall the heavenly Father turn away his face, and shall
  leave him for ever and ever. He shall be cast out from the kingdom of
  heaven, and his portion shall be in hell. Keep well my solemn word.'

  "Every accent of Obrazétz fell upon Anastasia's heart like a drop of
  molten pitch. She seemed to be summoned before the dreadful
  judgment-seat of Christ, to hear her father's curse, and her own
  eternal doom. She could restrain herself no longer, and sobbed
  bitterly; the light grew dim in her eyes; her feet began to totter.
  Obrazétz heard her sobs, and interrupted his exhortation. 'Nástia,
  Nástia! what aileth thee?' he enquired, with lively sympathy, of his
  daughter, whom he tenderly loved. She had not strength to utter a
  word, and fell into her brother's arms. Crossing himself, the boyárin
  put back the image into its former place, and then hastened to
  sprinkle his child with holy water which always stood ready in the
  oratory. Anastasia revived, and when she saw herself surrounded by
  her father and brother, in a dark, narrow, sepulchral place, she
  uttered a wild cry, and turned her dim eyes around. 'My life, my
  darling child, my dove! what aileth thee?' cried the father.
  'Recollect thyself: thou art in the oratory. 'Tis plain some evil eye
  hath struck thee. Pray to the Holy Virgin: she, the merciful one,
  will save thee from danger.'

  "The father and son bore her to the image of the Mother of God. Her
  brother with difficulty raised her arm, and she, all trembling, made
  the sign of the cross. Deeply, heavily she sighed, applied her
  ice-cold lips to the image, and then signed to them with her hand
  that they should carry her out speedily. She fancied that she saw the
  Holy Virgin shake her head with a reproachful air.

  "When they had carried Anastasia to her chamber, she felt better."

Hitherto none had shared her secret thoughts; but the experienced eye of the widow Selínova
had detected the nature of her malady, and she longed to know the object of her affection.

  "One day, they were sitting alone together, making lace. A kind of
  mischievous spirit whispered her to speak of the heretic. Imagine
  yourself thrown by destiny on a foreign land. All around you are
  speaking in an unknown tongue; their language appears to you a chaos
  of wild, strange sounds. Suddenly, amid the crowd, drops a word in
  your native language. Does not then a thrill run over your whole
  being? does not your heart leap within you? Or place a Russian
  peasant at a concert where is displayed all the creative luxury and
  all the brilliant difficulties of foreign music. The child of nature
  listens with indifference to the incomprehensible sounds; but
  suddenly Voróbieva with her nightingale voice trills out--The cuckóo
  from out the fírs so dánk hath not cúckooed. Look what a change
  comes over the half-asleep listener. Thus it was with Anastasia! Till
  this moment Selínova had spoken to her in a strange language, had
  only uttered sounds unintelligible to her; but the instant that she
  spoke the native word, it touched the heart-string, and all the
  chords of her being thrilled as if they were about to burst.
  Anastasia trembled, her hands wandered vaguely over her lace cushion,
  her face turned deadly pale. She dared not raise her eyes, and
  replied at random, absently.

  "'Ah!' thought Selínova, 'that is the right key: that is the point
  whence cometh the storm!'

  "Both remained silent. At length Anastasia ventured to glance at her
  visitor, in order to see by the expression of her face, whether she
  had remarked her confusion. Selínova's eyes were fixed upon her work,
  on her face there was not even a shade of suspicion. The crafty widow
  intended little by little, imperceptibly, to win the confidence of
  the inexperienced girl.

  "'And where then is he gone?' she asked after a short pause,
  without naming the person about whom she was enquiring.

  "'He is gone with the Great Prince on the campaign,' answered
  Anastasia blushing; then, after a moment's thought she added--'I
  suppose thou askedst me about my brother?'

  "'No, my dear, our conversation was about Antony the leech. What a
  pity he is a heretic! You will not easily find such another gallant
  among our Muscovites. He hath all, both height and beauty: when he
  looketh, 'tis as though he gave you large pearls; his locks lie on
  his shoulders like the light of dawn; he is as white and rosy as a
  young maiden. I wonder whence he had such beauty--whether by the
  permission of God, or, not naturally, by the influence of the Evil
  One. I could have looked at him--may it not be a sin to say, I could
  have gazed at him for ever without being weary!'

  "At these praises Anastasia's pale countenance blushed like the
  dawning that heralds the tempest. 'Thou hast then seen him?' asked
  the enamoured maiden, in a trembling, dying voice, and breaking off
  her work.

  "'I have seen him more than once. I have not only seen him, but
  wonder now, my dear--I have visited him in his dwelling!'

  "'The maiden shook her head, her eyes were dimmed with the shade of
  pensiveness; a thrill of jealousy, in spite of herself, darted to
  her heart. 'What! and didst thou not fear to go to him?' she
  said--'Is he not a heretic?'

  "'If thou knewest it, Nástenka, what wouldst thou not do for love?'

  "'Love?' ... exclaimed Anastasia, and her heart bounded violently in
  her breast.

  "'Ah if I were not afraid, I would disclose to thee the secret of my
  soul.'

  "'Speak, I pray thee, speak! Fear not; see! I call the Mother of God
  to witness, thy words shall die with me.'

  "And the maiden, with a quivering hand, signed a large cross.

  "'If so, I will confide in thee what I have never disclosed but to
  God. It is not over one blue sea alone that the mist lieth, and the
  darksome cloud: it is not over one fair land descendeth the gloomy
  autumn night; there was a time when my bosom was loaded with a heavy
  sorrow, my rebellious heart lay drowned in woe and care: I loved thy
  brother, Iván Vassílievitch. (The maiden's heart was relieved, she
  breathed more freely.) Thou knowest not, my life, my child, what kind
  of feeling is that of love, and God grant that thou mayest never know!
  The dark night cometh, thou canst not close thine eyes: the bright
  dawn breaketh, thou meetest it with tears, and the day is all
  weary--O, so weary! There are many men in the fair world, but thou
  see'st only one, in thy bower, in the street, in the house of God. A
  stone lieth ever on thy breast, and thou canst not shake it off.'

  "Then Selínova wept sincere tears. Her companion listened to her with
  eager sympathy: the feelings just depicted were her own.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "There was a deep silence. It was broken by the young widow.

  "'Nástenka, my life?' she began in a tone of such touching, such
  lively interest, as called for her reluctant confidence.

  "The daughter of Obrazétz glanced at her with eyes full of tears, and
  shook her head.

  "'Confide in me, as I have confided in thee,' continued Selínova,
  taking her hand and pressing it to her bosom. 'I have lived longer in
  the world than thou ... believe me, 'twill give thee ease ... 'tis
  clear from every symptom, my love, what thou ailest.'

  "And Anastasia, sobbing, exclaimed at last--'O, my love, my dearest
  friend, Praskóvia Vladimírovna, take a sharp knife, open my white
  breast, look what is the matter there!'

  "'And wherefore need we take the sharp knife, and wherefore need we
  open the white breast, or look upon the rebellious heart? Surely, by
  thy fair face all can tell, my child, how that fair face hath been
  darkened, how the fresh bloom hath faded, and bright eyes grown dull.
  After all, 'tis clear thou lovest some wandering falcon, some
  stranger youth.'

  "Anastasia answered not a word; she could not speak for tears; and
  hid her face in her hands. At last, softened by Selínova's friendly
  sympathy, and her assurances that she would be easier if she would
  confide her secret to such a faithful friend, she related her love
  for the heretic. The episode of the crucifix was omitted in this tale,
  which finished, of course, with assurances that she was enchanted,
  bewitched.

  "Poor Anastasia!

  "Snowdrop! beautiful flower, thou springest up alone in the bosom of
  thy native valley! And the bright sun arises every day to glass
  himself in thy morning mirror; and the beaming moon, after a sultry
  day, hastens to fan thee with her breezy wing, and the angels of God,
  lulling thee by night, spread over thee a starry canopy, such as king
  never possessed. Who can tell from what quarter the tempest may bring
  from afar, from other lands, the seeds of the ivy, and scatter them
  by thy side, and the ivy arises and twines lovingly around thee, and
  chokes thee, lovely flower! This is not all: the worm has crawled to
  thy root, hath fixed its fang therein, and kills ye both, if some
  kind hand save ye not."

These extracts will enable our readers to judge for themselves of the merits of M. Lajétchnikoff's
style as it appears in Mr Shaw's translation. A better selection might have been made, had
we not been desirous to avoid any such anticipation of the development of the story as light
diminish its interest; but we are inclined to believe that most of our readers will agree with
us in thinking, that if M. Lajétchnikoff has succeeded in faithfully illustrating the manners
of the age of Iván the Great, he has also shown that he possesses brilliancy of fancy, fervour
of thought, and elevation of sentiment, as well as knowledge of the movements of the heart,
revealed only to the few who have been initiated into nature's mysteries.

He does not appear to be largely gifted with the power of graphic description, of placing the
scenes of nature, or the living figures that people them, vividly before us--he loves rather
to indulge, even to excess, mystical or passionate thoughts that are born in his own breast,
and to adorn them with garlands woven from the flowers of his fancy; but these flowers are
of native growth, the indigenous productions of the Russian soil. His images often sound to
our ears homely, sometimes even familiar and mean, but they may be dignified in their native
dress. He has no lively perception of the beauties of external nature; his raptures are reserved
for the wonders of art, for what the human mind can create or achieve; and, curiously enough,
it is architecture that seems to excite in him the greatest enthusiasm. In illustration of
this feeling, we must still extract an eloquent discourse on the life of the artist, which
the author puts into the mouth of Fioraventi Aristotle--a passage of much feeling, and, we
fear, of too much truth:--

  "Thou knowest not, Antony, what a life is that of an artist! While
  yet a child, he is agitated by heavy incomprehensible thoughts: to
  him the sphynx, Genius, hath already proposed its enigmas; in his
  bosom the Promethean vulture is already perched, and groweth with his
  growth. His comrades are playing and making merry; they are preparing
  for their riper years recollections of childhood's days of
  paradise--childhood, that never can be but once: the time cometh, and
  he remembereth but the tormenting dreams of that age. Youth is at
  hand; for others 'tis the time of love, of soft ties, of revelry--the
  feast of life; for the artist, none of these. Solitary, flying from
  society, he avoideth the maiden, he avoideth joy; plunging into the
  loneliness of his soul, he there, with indescribable mourning, with
  tears of inspiration, on his knees before his Ideal, imploreth her to
  come down upon earth to his frail dwelling. Days and nights he
  waiteth, and pineth after unearthly beauty. Woe to him if she doth
  not visit him, and yet greater woe to him if she doth! The tender
  frame of youth cannot bear her bridal kiss; union with the gods is
  fatal to man; and the mortal is annihilated in her embrace. I speak
  not of the education, of the mechanic preparation. And here at every
  step the Material enchaineth thee, buildeth up barriers before thee:
  marketh a formless vein upon thy block of marble, mingling soot with
  thy carmine, entangling thy imagination in a net of monstrous rules
  and formulas, commandeth thee to be the slave of the house-painter or
  of the stone-cutter. And what awaiteth thee, when thou hast come
  forth victorious from this mechanic school--when thou hast succeeded
  in throwing off the heavy sum of a thousand unnecessary rules, with
  which pedantry hath overwhelmed thee--when thou takest as thy guide
  only those laws which are so plain and simple?... What awaiteth thee
  then? Again the Material! Poverty, need, forced labour, appreciators,
  rivals, that ever-hungry flock which flieth upon thee ready to tear
  thee in pieces, as soon as it knoweth that thou art a pure possessor
  of the gift of God. Thy soul burneth to create, but thy carcass
  demandeth a morsel of bread; inspiration veileth her wing, but the
  body asketh not only to clothe its nakedness with a decent covering,
  but fine cloth, silk, velvet, that it may appear before thy judges in
  a proper dress, without which they will not receive thee, thou and
  thy productions will die unknown. In order to obtain food, clothes,
  thou must work: a merchant will order from thee a cellar, a
  warehouse; the signore, stables and dog kennels. Now at last thou
  hast procured thyself daily bread, a decent habit for thy bones and
  flesh: inspiration thirsteth for its nourishment, demanding from thy
  soul images and forms. Thou createst, thou art bringing thy Ideal to
  fulfilment. How swiftly move the wheels of thy being! Thy existence
  is tenfold redoubled, thy pulse is beating as when thou breathest the
  atmosphere of high mountains. Thou spendest in one day whole months
  of life. How many nights passed without sleep, how many days in
  ceaseless chain, all filled with agitation! Or rather, there is nor
  day nor night for thee, nor seasons of the year, as for other men.
  Thy blood now boileth, then freezeth; the fever of imagination
  wasteth thee away. Triumph setteth thee on fire, the fear of failure
  maddeneth thee, tearing thee to pieces, tormenting thee with dread of
  the judgments of men; then again ariseth the terror of dying with thy
  task unfinished. Add, too, the inevitable shade of glory, which
  stalketh ever in thy footsteps, and giveth thee not a moment of
  repose. This is the period of creation! While creating, thou hast
  been dwelling at the footstool of God. Crushed by thy contact with
  the hem of his garment, overwhelmed by inspiration from Him whom the
  world can scarcely bear, a poor mortal, half alive, half dead, thou
  descendest upon earth, and carriest with thee what thou hast created
  there, in His presence! Mortals surround thy production, judging,
  valuing, discussing it in detail; the patron laudeth the ornaments,
  the grandeur of the columns, the weight of the work; the distributors
  of favour gamble away thy honour, or creep like mice under thy plan,
  and nibble at it in the darkness of night. No, my friend, the life of
  an artist is the life of a martyr."

We are so much accustomed to see virtue rewarded and vice punished, that we might perhaps have
been better pleased to have seen this kind of poetical justice more equitably dispensed; but
the cause of virtue is perhaps as effectually served by making it attractive as by making it
triumphant, and vice is as much discouraged by making it odious or contemptible as by making
it unsuccessful.

It only remains to say a few words of the translator's labours; and although we do not pretend
to decide on the fidelity of the version he has given us, or how much his author may have lost
or gained in his hands, we cannot but think that we perceive internal evidence of efforts to
be faithful, even at the hazard of losing perhaps something of more value in the attempt. However
this may be, it is plain that Mr Shaw is himself a vigorous and eloquent writer of his own
language, as the extracts we have given may vouch. We feel greatly indebted to him for unlocking
to us the stores of Russian fiction, which, if they contain many such works as The Heretic,
will well repay the labour of a careful examination. There is about every thing Russian an
air of orientalism which gives a peculiar character to their dress, their mansions, their manners,
their feelings, their expressions, and their prejudices, which will probably long continue
to distinguish Russian literature on that of the other nations of Europe, whose steps she has
followed, perhaps too implicitly, in her attempts to overtake them in the race of civilization
and intellectual improvement.

       *       *       *       *       *

THRUSH-HUNTING.

BY ALEXANDER DUMAS.

We have heard of certain cooks, the Udes and Vatels of their day, whose boast it was to manufacture
the most sumptuous and luxurious repast out of coarse and apparently insufficient materials.
We will take the liberty of comparing M. Dumas with one of these artistical cuisiniers, possessing
in the highest degree the talent of making much out of little, by the skill with which it is
prepared, and the piquant nature of the condiments applied. A successful dramatist, as well
as a popular romance-writer, his dialogues have the point and brilliancy, his narrative the
vivid terseness, generally observable in novels written by persons accustomed to dramatic composition.
Confining himself to no particular line of subject, he rambles through the different departments
of light literature in a most agreeable and desultory manner; to-day a tourist, to-morrow a
novelist; the next day surprising his public by an excursion into the regions of historical
romance, amongst the well-beaten highways and byways of which he still manages to discover
an untrodden path, or to embellish a familiar one by the sparkle of his wit and industry of
his researches. The majority of his books convey the idea of being written currente calamo,
and with little trouble to himself; and these have a lightness and brilliancy peculiar to their
lively author, which cannot fail to recommend them to all classes of readers. They are like
the sketches of a clever artist, who, with a few bright and bold touches, gives an effect to
his subject which no labour would enable a less talented painter to achieve. But M. Dumas can
produce highly finished pictures as well as brilliant sketches, although for the present it
is one of the latter that we are about to introduce to our readers.

Every body knows, or ought to know, that M. Dumas has been in Italy, and found means to make
half a dozen highly amusing volumes out of his rambles in a country, perhaps, of all others,
the most familiar to the inhabitants of civilized Europe--a country which has been described
and re-described ad nauseam, by tourists, loungers, and idlers innumerable. On his way to the
land of lazzaroni he made a pause at Marseilles to visit his friend Méry, a poet and author
of some celebrity; and here he managed to collect materials for a volume which we can recommend
to the perusal of the daily increasing class of our countrymen who think that a book, although
written in French, may be witty and amusing without being either blasphemous or indecent.

We have reason to believe that many persons who have not visited the south-eastern corner of
France, think of it as a "land of the cypress and myrtle;" where troubadours wander amongst
orange groves, or tinkle their guitars under the shade of the vine and the fig-tree. There
is something in a name, and Provence, if it were only for the sake of its roses, ought, one
would think, to be a smiling and beautiful country. And so part of it is; but in this part
is assuredly not included the district around its chief city. One hears much of the vineyards
and orange groves of the south. We do not profess to care much about vines, except for the
sake of what they produce; most of the vineyards we ever saw looked very like plantations of
gooseberry bushes, and the best of them were not so graceful or picturesque as a Kentish hop-ground.
As to olives, admirable as they undoubtedly are when flanking a sparkling jug of claret, we
find little to admire in the stiff, greyish, stunted sort of trees upon which they think proper
to grow. But neither vines nor olives are to be found around Marseilles. Nothing but dust;
dust on the roads, dust in the fields, dust on every leaf of the parched, unhappy-looking trees
that surround the country-houses of the Marseillais. The fruit and vegetables consumed there
are brought for miles overland, or by water from places on the coast; flowers are scarce--objecting,
probably, to grow in so arid a soil, and in a heat that, for some months of the year, is perfectly
African. Game there is little or none; notwithstanding which, there are nowhere to be found
more enthusiastic sportsmen than at Marseilles. It is on this hint M. Dumas speaks. His description
of the manner in which the worthy burghers of Marseilles make war upon the volatiles is rather
amusing.

"Every Marseillais who aspires to the character of a keen sportsman, has what is termed a poste
à feu. This is a pit or cave dug in the ground in the vicinity of a couple of pine-trees, and
covered over with branches. In addition to the pine-trees, it is usual to have cimeaux, long
spars of wood, of which two are supported horizontally on the branches of the trees, and a
third planted perpendicularly in the ground. These cimeaux are intended as a sort of treacherous
invitation to the birds to come and rest themselves. So regularly as Sunday morning arrives,
the Marseillais Cockney installs himself in his pit, arranges a loophole through which he can
see what passes outside, and waits with all imaginable patience. The question that will naturally
be asked, is--What does he wait for?

"He waits for a thrush, an ortolan, a beccafico, a robin-redbreast, or any other feathered
and diminutive biped. He is not so ambitious as to expect a quail. Partridges he has heard
of; of one, at least, a sort of phoenix, reproduced from its own ashes, and seen from time
to time before an earthquake, or other great catastrophe. As to the hare, he is well aware
that it is a fabulous animal of the unicorn species.

"There is a tradition, however, at Marseilles, that during the last three months of the year,
flocks of wild pigeons pass over, on their way from Africa or Kamschatka, or some other distant
country. Within the memory of man no one has ever seen one of these flights; but it would nevertheless
be deemed heresy to doubt the fact. At this season, therefore, the sportsman provides himself
with tame pigeon, which he fastens by a string to the cimeaux, in such a manner that the poor
bird is obliged to keep perpetually on the wing, not being allowed rope enough to reach a perch.
After three or four Sundays passed in this manner, the unfortunate decoy dies of a broken heart."

There is not nearly so much caricature in this picture as our readers may be disposed to think.
Whoever has passed a few weeks of the autumn in a French provincial town, must have witnessed
and laughed at the very comical proceedings of the chasseurs, the high-sounding title assumed
by every Frenchman who ever pointed a gun at a cock-sparrow. One sees them going forth in the
morning in various picturesque and fanciful costumes, their loins girded with a broad leathern
belt, a most capacious game-bag slung over their shoulder, a fowling-piece of murderous aspect
balanced on their arm; their heads protected from the October sun by every possible variety
of covering, from the Greek skull-cap to the broad-brimmed Spanish sombrero. Away they go,
singly, or by twos and threes, accompanied by a whole regiment of dogs, for the most part badly
bred, and worse broken curs, which, when they get into the field, go pottering about in a style
that would sorely tempt an English sportsman to bestow upon them the contents of both barrels.
Towards the close of the day, take a stroll outside the town, and you meet the heroes returning.
"Well, what sport?" "Pas mal, mon cher. Not so bad," is the reply, in a tone of ill-concealed
triumph; and plunging his hand into his game-bag, the chasseur produces--a phthisical snipe,
a wood pigeon, an extenuated quail, and perhaps something which you at first take for a deformed
blackbird, but which turns out to be a water-hen. As far as our own observations go, we do
aver this to be a very handsome average of a French sportsman's day's shooting. If by chance
he has knocked down a red-legged partridge, (grey ones are very scarce in France,) his exultation
knows no bounds. The day on which such a thing occurs is a red-letter day with him for the
rest of his life. He goes home at once and inscribes the circumstance in the family archives.

But this state of things, it will perhaps be urged, may arise from the scarcity of game in
France, as probably as from the sportsman's want of skill. True; but the worst is to come.
After you have duly admired and examined snipe, pigeon, quail, and water-hen, your friend again
rummages in the depths of his gibecière, and pulls out--what?--a handful of tomtits and linnets,
which he has been picking off every hedge for five miles round. "Je me suis rabattu sur le
petit gibier," he says, with a grin and a shrug, and walks away, a proud man and a happy, leaving
you in admiration of his prowess.

M. Dumas expresses a wish to make the acquaintance of one of these modern Nimrods, and his
friend Méry arranges a supper, to which he invites a certain Monsieur Louet, who plays the
fourth bass in the orchestra of the Marseilles theatre. The conversation after supper is a
good specimen of persiflage. After doing ample justice to an excellent repast, during which
he had scarcely uttered a word,

"Monsieur Louet threw himself back in his chair and looked at us all, one after the other,
as if he had only just become aware of our presence, accompanying his inspection with a smile
of the most perfect benevolence; then, heaving a gentle sigh of satisfaction--'Ma foi! I have
made a capital supper!' exclaimed he.

"'M. Louet! A cigar?' cried Méry: 'It is good for the digestion.'

"'Thank you, most illustrious poet!' answered M. Louet; 'I never smoke. It was not the fashion
in my time. Smoking and boots were introduced by the Cossacks. I always wear shoes, and am
faithful to my snuff-box.'

"So saying, M. Louet produced his box, and offered it round. We all refused except Méry, who,
wishing to flatter him, attacked his weak side.

"'What delicious snuff, M. Louet! This cannot be the common French snuff?'

"'Indeed it is--only I doctor it in a particular manner. It is a secret I learned from a cardinal
when I was at Rome.'

"'Ha! You have been to Rome?' cried I.

"'Yes, sir; I passed twenty years there.'

"'M. Louet,' said Méry, 'since you do not smoke, you ought to tell these gentlemen the story
of your thrush-hunt.'

"'I shall be most happy,' replied M. Louet graciously, 'if you think it will amuse the company.'

"'To be sure it will,' cried Méry. 'Gentlemen, you are going to hear the account of one of
the most extraordinary hunts that has taken place since the days of Nimrod the mighty hunter.
I have heard it told twenty times, and each time with increased pleasure. Another glass of
punch, M. Louet. There! Now begin.--We are all impatience.'

"'You are aware, gentlemen,' said M. Louet, 'that every Marseillais is born a sportsman.'

"'Perfectly true,' interrupted Méry 'it is a physiological phenomenon which I have never been
able to explain; but it is nevertheless quite true.'

"'Unfortunately,' continued M. Louet, 'or perhaps I should say fortunately, we have neither
lions nor tigers in the neighbourhood of Marseilles. On the other hand, we have flights of
pigeons.'

"'There!' cried Méry, 'I told you so. They insist upon it.'

"'Certainly,' replied M. Louet, visibly vexed; 'and, whatever you may say to the contrary,
the pigeons do pass. Besides, did you not lend me the other day a book of Mr Cooper's, the
Pioneers, in which the fact is authenticated?'

"'Ah, yes! Authenticated in America.'

"'Very well! If they pass over America why should they not pass over Marseilles? The vessels
that go from Alexandria and Constantinople to America often pass here.'

"'Very true!' replied Méry, thunderstruck by this last argument. 'I have nothing more to say.
M. Louet, your hand. I will never contradict you again on the subject.'

"'Sir, every man has a right to his opinion.'

"'True, but I relinquish mine. Pray go on, M. Louet.'

"'I was saying, then, that instead of lions and tigers we have flights of pigeons.' M. Louet
paused a moment to see if Méry would contradict him. Méry nodded his head approvingly.

"'True,' said he, 'they have flights of pigeons.'"

Satisfied by this admission M. Louet resumed.

"'You may easily imagine that at the period of the year when these flights occur, every sportsman
is on the alert; and, as I am only occupied in the evening at the theatre, I am fortunately
able to dispose of my mornings as I like. It was in 1810 or '11, I was five-and-thirty years
of age; that is to say, gentlemen, rather more active than I am now. I was one morning at my
post, as usual, before daybreak. I had tied my decoy pigeon to the cimeaux, and he was fluttering
about like a mad thing, when I fancied I saw by the light of the stars something perched upon
my pine-tree. Unfortunately it was too dark for me to distinguish whether this something were
a bat or a bird, so I remained quite quiet, waiting for the sun to rise. At last the sun rose
and I saw that it was a bird. I raised my gun gently to my shoulder, and, when I was sure of
my aim, I pulled the trigger. Sir, I had omitted to discharge my gun on returning from shooting
the evening before. It had been twelve hours loaded, and it hung fire.

"'Nevertheless I saw by the way in which the bird flew that he was touched. I followed him
with my eyes till he perched again. Then I looked for my pigeon; but by an extraordinary chance
a shot had cut the string which tied him, and he had flown away. Without a decoy I knew very
well it was no use remaining at the post, so I resolved to follow up the thrush. I forgot to
tell you, gentlemen, that the bird I had fired at was a thrush.

"'Unluckily I had no dog. When one shoots with a decoy, a dog is worse than useless--it is
a positive nuisance. I was obliged, therefore, to beat the bushes myself. The thrush had run
along the ground, and rose behind me when I thought I still had him in front. At the sound
of his wings I turned and fired in a hurry. A shot thrown away, as you may suppose. Nevertheless
I saw some feathers fall from him.'

"'You saw some feathers?' cried Méry.

"'Yes, sir. I even found one, which I put in my buttonhole.'

"'In that case,' said Méry, 'the thrush was hit?'

"'That was my opinion at the time. I had not lost sight of him, and I continued the pursuit;
but the bird was scared, and this time flew away before I got within range. I fired all the
same. There is no saying where a stray shot may go.'

"'A stray shot is not enough for a thrush,' said Méry, shaking his head gravely. 'A thrush
is a very hard-lived bird.'

"'Very true, sir; for I am certain my two first shots had wounded him, and yet he made a third
flight of nearly half a mile. But I had sworn to have him, and on I went. Impossible to get
near him. He led me on, mile after mile, always flying away as soon as I came within fifty
or sixty paces. I became furious. If I had caught him I think I should have eaten him alive,
and the more so as I was beginning to get very hungry. Fortunately, as I had calculated on
remaining out all day, I had my breakfast and dinner in my game-bag, and I eat as I went along.'

"'Pardon me,' said Méry, interrupting M. Louet; 'I have an observation to make. Observe, my
dear Dumas, the difference between the habits of the human race in northern and southern climes.
In the north the sportsman runs after his game; in the south he waits for it to come to him.
In the first case he takes out an empty bag and brings home a full one; in the other he takes
it out full and brings it home empty. Pray, go on, my dear M. Louet. I have spoken.' And he
recommenced puffing at his cigar.

"'Where was I?' said M. Louet, who had lost the threat of his narrative through this interruption.

"'Speeding over hill and dale in pursuit of your thrush.'

"'True, sir. I cannot describe to you the state of excitement and irritation I was in. I began
to think of the bird of Prince Camaralzaman, and to suspect that I, too, might be the victim
of some enchantment. I passed Cassis and La Ciotat, and entered the large plain extending from
Ligne to St. Cyr. I had been fifteen hours on my feet, and I was half dead with fatigue. I
made a vow to Our Lady of La Garde to hang a silver thrush in her chapel, if she would only
assist me to catch the living one I was following; but she paid no attention to me. Night was
coming on, and in despair I fired my last shot at the accursed bird. I have no doubt he heard
the lead whistle, for this time he flew so far that I lost sight of him in the twilight. He
had gone in the direction of the village of St. Cyr. Probably he intended to sleep there, and
I resolved to do the same. Fortunately there was to be no performance that night at the Marseilles
theatre.'"

The worthy basso goes to the inn at St. Cyr, and relates his troubles to the host, who decides
that the object of his pursuit must have halted for the night in a neighbouring piece of brushwood.
By daybreak M. Louet is again a-foot, accompanied by the innkeeper's dog, Soliman. They soon
get upon the scent of the devoted thrush.

"'Every body knows that a true sporting dog will follow any one who has a gun on his shoulder.
"Soliman, Soliman!" cried I; and Soliman came. Sir, the instinct of the dog was remarkable:
we had hardly got out of the village when he made a point--such a point, sir!--his tail out
as straight as a ramrod. There was the thrush, not ten paces from me. I fired both barrels--Poum!
Poum! Powder not worth a rush. I had used all my own the day before, and this was some I had
got from my host. The thrush flew away unhurt. But Soliman had kept his eye on him, and went
straight to the place where the bird was. Again he made a most beautiful point; but although
I looked with all my eyes, I could not see the thrush. I was stooping down in this manner,
looking for the creature, when suddenly it flew away, and so fast, that before I got my gun
to my shoulder, it was out of reach. Soliman opened his eyes and stared at me; as much as to
say, "What is the meaning of all this?" The expression of the dog's face made me feel quit
humiliated. I could not help speaking to him. "Never mind," said I, nodding my head, "you will
see next time." You would have thought the animal understood me. He again began to hunt about.
In less than ten minutes he stopped as if he were cut out of marble. I was determined not to
lose this chance; and I went right before the dog's nose. The bird rose literally under my
feet; but I was so agitated that I fired my first barrel too soon, and my second too late.
The first discharge passed by him like a single ball; the second was too scattered, and he
passed between it. It was then that a thing happened to me--one of those things which I should
not repeat, but for my attachment to the truth. The dog looked at me for a moment with a sort
of smile upon his countenance: then, coming close up to me while I was reloading my gun, he
lifted his left hind leg, made water against my gaiter, and then turning round, trotted away
in the direction of his master's house. You may easily suppose, that if it had been a man who
had thus insulted me, I would have had his life, or he should have had mine. But what could
I say, sir, to a dumb beast which God had not gifted with reason?'"

This canine insult only acts as a spur to the indefatigable chasseur, who, dogless as he finds
himself, follows up his thrush till he reaches the town of Hyères. Here he loses all trace
of the bird, but endeavours to console himself by eating the oranges which grow in the garden
of his hotel. Whilst thus engaged, a thrush perches on a tree beside him, and the first glance
at the creature's profile satisfied him that it is the same bird whose society he has been
rejoicing in the for the last two days. Unfortunately his gun is in the house, of which the
thrush seems to be aware, for it continues singing and dressing its feathers on a branch within
ten feet of his head. Afraid of losing sight of it, M. Louet waits till the landlord comes
to announce supper, and then desires him to bring his gun. But there is a punishment of fine
and imprisonment for whoever fires a shot, between sunset and sunrise, within the precincts
of the town; and although the enthusiastic sportsman is willing enough to run this risk, the
hotel-keeper fears to be taken for an accomplice, and refuses to fetch the gun, threatening
to drive away the bird if M. Louet goes for it himself. At last they come to terms. M. Louet
sups and sleeps under the tree, the bird roosts on the same; and at the first stroke of the
matin bell, mine host appears with the fowling-piece. Our chasseur stretches out his hand to
take it, and--the bird flies away.

M. Louet throws down the price of his supper, and scales the garden wall in pursuit. He follows
his intended victim the whole of that day, and at last has the mortification of seeing it carried
away before his eyes by a hawk. Foot-sore and tired, hungry and thirsty, the unfortunate musician
sinks down exhausted by the side of a road. A peasant passes by.

"'My friend,' said I to him, 'is there any town, village, or house in this neighbourhood?'

"'Gnor si,' answered he, 'cé la citta di Nizza un miglia avanti.'

"The thrush had led me into Italy."

At Nice M. Louet is in great tribulation. In the course of his long ramble his money has worked
a hole in his pocket, and he discovers that he is penniless just at the moment that he has
established himself at the best hotel, and ordered supper for three by way of making up for
past privations. He gets out of his difficulties, however, by giving a concert, which produces
him a hundred crowns; and he then embarks for Toulon, on board the letter of marque, La Vierge
des Sept Douleurs, Captain Garnier.

Once on the water, there is a fine opportunity for a display of French naval heroism, at the
expense, of course, of the unfortunate English, to whom M. Dumas bears about the same degree
of affection that another dark-complexioned gentleman is said to do to holy water. This is
one of M. Dumas's little peculiarities or affectations, it is difficult to say which. Wherever
it is possible to bring in England and the English, depreciate them in any way, or turn them
into ridicule, M. Dumas invariably does it, and those passages are frequently the most amusing
in his books. In the present instance, it is a very harmless piece of faufarronade in which
he indulges.

The armed brig in which M. Louet has embarked, falls in which a squadron of English men-of-war.
Hearing a great bustle upon deck, our musician goes up to enquire the cause, and finds the
captain quietly seated, smoking his pipe. After the usual salutations--

"'M. Louet, have you ever seen a naval combat?' said the captain to me.

"'Never, sir.'

"'Would you like to see one?'

"'Why, captain, to say the truth, there are other things I should better like to see.'

"'I am sorry for it; for it you wished to see one, a real good one, your wish would soon be
gratified.'

"'What! captain,' cried I, feeling myself grow pale; 'you do not mean to say we are going to
have a naval combat? Ha, ha! I see you are joking, captain.'

"'Joking, eh? Look yonder. What do you see?'

"'I see three very fine vessels.'

"'Count again.'

"'I see more. Four, five, there are six of them.'

"'Can you distinguish what there is on the flag of the nearest one? Here, take the glass.'

"'I cannot make out very well, but I think I see a harp.'

"'Exactly.--The Irish harp. In a few minutes they'll play as a tune on it.'

"'But captain,' said I, 'they are still a long way off, and it appears to me, that by spreading
all those sails which are now furled upon your masts and yards, you might manage to escape.
In your place I should certainly run away. Excuse me for the suggestion, but it is my opinion
as fourth bass of the Marseilles theatre. If I had the honour to be a sailor, I should perhaps
think differently.'"

Very sensible advice, too, M. Louet, we should have thought at least, considering the odds
of six to one. But the fire-eating Frenchman thinks otherwise.

"'If it were a man, instead of a bass, who made me such a proposal,' replied the captain, 'I
should have had a word or two to say to him about it. Know, sir, that Captain Garnier never
runs away! He fights till his vessel is riddled like a sieve, then he allows himself to be
boarded, and when his decks are covered with the enemy, he goes into the powder magazine with
his pipe in his mouth, shakes out the burning ashes, and sends the English on a voyage of discovery
upwards.'

"'And the French?'

"'The French too.'

"'And the passengers?'

"'The passengers likewise.'

"'At that moment, a small white cloud appeared issuing from the side of one of the English
ships. This was followed by a dull noise like a heavy blow on the big drum. I saw some splinters
fly from the top of the brig's gunwale, and an artilleryman, who was just then standing on
his gun, fell backwards upon me. 'Come, my friend,' said I, 'mind what you are about.' And,
as he did not stir, I pushed him. He fell upon the deck. I looked at him with more attention.
His head was off.

"My nerves were so affected by this sight, that five minutes later I found myself in the ship's
hold, without exactly knowing how I had got there."

Thanks to a storm, the six English men of war manage to escape from the brig, and when M. Louet
ventures to re-appear upon deck, he finds himself in the Italian port of Piombino, opposite
the island of Elba. He has had enough of the water, and goes on shore, where he bargains with
a vetturino to take him to Florence. A young officer of French hussars, and four Italians,
are his travelling companions. The former, on learning his name and profession, asks him sundry
questions about a certain Mademoiselle Zephyrine, formerly a dancer at the Marseilles theatre,
and in whom he seems to take a strong interest.

Bad springs and worse roads render it very difficult to sleep. At last, on the second night
of their journey, M. Louet succeeds in getting up a doze, out of which he is roused in a very
unpleasant manner. We will give his own account of it.

"'Two pistol-shots, the flash of which almost burned my face, awoke me. They were fired by
M. Ernest, (the hussar officer.) We were attacked by banditti.'

"'Faccia in terra! Faccia in terra!' I jumped out of the carriage, and as I did so, one of
the brigands gave me a blow between the shoulders, that threw me upon my face. My companions
were already in that position, with the exception of M. Ernest, who was defending himself desperately.
At length he was overpowered and made prisoner.

"My pockets were turned inside out, and my hundred crowns taken away. I had a diamond ring
on my finger, which I hoped they would not observe, and I turned the stone inside, heartily
wishing, as I did so, that it had the power of Gyges' ring, and could render me invisible.
But all was in vain. The robbers soon found it out. When they had taken every thing from us--

"'Is there a musician amongst you?' said he who appeared the chief.

"Nobody answered.

"'Well,' repeated he, 'are you all deaf? I asked if any of you knew how to play on an instrument.'

"'Pardieu!' said a voice, which I recognized as that of the young officer; 'there's M. Louet,
who plays the bass.'

"I wished myself a hundred feet under ground.

"'Which is M. Louet?' said the brigand. 'Is it this one?' And, stooping down, he laid hold
of the collar of my shooting-jacket, and lifted me on my feet.

"'For Heaven's sake, what do you want with me?' cried I.

"'Nothing to be so frightened about,' was the answer. 'For a week past we have been hunting
every where for a musician, without being able to find one. The captain will be delighted to
see you.'

"'What!' cried I, 'are you going to take me to the captain?'

"'Certainly we are.'

"'To separate me from my companions?'

"'What can we do with them? They are not musicians.'

"'Gentlemen!' cried I, 'for God's sake, help me! do not let me be carried off in this manner.'

"'The gentlemen will have the goodness to remain with their noses in the dust for the space
of a quarter of an hour,' said the brigand. 'As to the officer, tie him to a tree,' continued
he, to the four men who were holding the hussar. 'In a quarter of an hour the postillion will
untie him. Not a minute sooner, if you value your life.'

"The postillion gave a sort of affirmative grunt, and the robbers now moved off in the direction
of the mountains. I was led between two of them. After marching for some time, we saw a light
in a window, and presently halted at a little inn on a cross-road. The bandits went up stairs,
excepting two, who remained with me in the kitchen, and one of whom had appropriated my fowling-piece,
and the other my game-bag. As to my diamond ring and my hundred crowns, they had become perfectly
invisible.

"Presently somebody shouted from above, and my guards, taking me by the collar, pushed me up
stairs, and into a room on the first floor.

"Seated at a table, upon which was a capital supper and numerous array of bottles, was the
captain of the robbers, a fine-looking man of thirty-five or forty years of age. He was dressed
exactly like a theatrical robber, in blue velvet, with a red sash and silver buckles. His arm
was passed round the waist of a very pretty girl in the costume of a Roman peasant; that is
to say, an embroidered boddice, short bright-coloured petticoat, and red stockings. Her feet
attracted my attention, they were so beautifully small. On one of her fingers I saw my diamond
ring--a circumstance which, as well as the company in which I found her, gave me a very indifferent
idea of the young lady's morality.

"'What countryman are you?' asked the captain.

"'I am a Frenchman, your excellency.'

"'So much the better!' cried the young girl.

"I saw with pleasure that, at any rate, I was amongst people who spoke my own language.

"'You are a musician?'

"'I am fourth bass at the Marseilles theatre.'

"'Bring this gentleman's bass,' said the captain to one of his men. 'Now, my little Rina,'
said he, turning to his mistress, 'I hope you are ready to dance."

"'I always was,' answered she, 'but how could I without music?'

"'Non ho trovato l'instrumento,' said the robber, reappearing at the door.

"'What!' cried the captain in a voice of thunder; 'no instrument?'

"'Captain,' interposed his lieutenant, 'I searched every where, but could not find even the
smallest violoncello.'

"'Bestia!' cried the captain.

"'Excellency,' I ventured to observe, 'it is not his fault. I had no bass with me.'

"'Very well,' said the captain, 'send off five men immediately to Sienna, Volterra, Grossetto--all
over the country. I must have a bass by to-morrow night.'

"I could not help thinking I had seen Mademoiselle Rina's face somewhere before, and I was
cudgeling my memory to remember where, when she addressed the captain.

"'Tonino,' said she, 'you have not even asked the poor man if he is hungry.'

"I was touched by this little attention, and, on the captain's invitation, I drew a chair to
the table, in fear and trembling I acknowledge; but it was nearly twelve hours since I had
eaten any thing, and my hunger was perfectly canine. Mademoiselle Rina herself had the kindness
to pass me the dishes and fill my glass; so that I had abundant opportunities of admiring my
own ring, which sparkled upon her finger. I began to perceive, however, that I should not be
so badly off as I had expected, and that the captain was disposed to treat me well.

"Supper over, I was allowed to retire to a room and a bed that had been prepared for me. I
slept fifteen hours without waking. The robbers had the politeness not to disturb me till I
awakened of my own accord. Then, however, five of them entered my room, each carrying a bass.
I chose the best, and they made firewood of the others.

"When I had made my choice, they told me the captain was waiting dinner for me; and accordingly,
on entering the principal room of the inn, I found a table spread for the captain, Mademoiselle
Rina, the lieutenant, and myself. There were several other tables for the rest of the banditti.
The room was lighted up with at least three hundred wax candles.

"The dinner was a merry one. The robbers were really very good sort of people, and the captain
was in an excellent humour. When the feasting was over,

"'You have not forgotten your promise, Rina, I hope?' said he.

"'Certainly not,' was the reply. 'In a quarter of an hour I am ready.'

"So saying, she skipped out of the room.

"'And you, Signor Musico,' said the captain, 'I hope you are going to distinguish yourself.'

"'I will do my best, captain.'

"'If I am satisfied, you shall have back your hundred crowns.'

"'And my diamond ring, captain?'

"'Oh! as to that, no. Besides, you see Rina has got it, and you are too gallant to wish to
take it from her.'

"At this moment Mademoiselle Rina made her appearance in the costume of a shepherdess--a boddice
of silver, short silk petticoats, and a large Cashmere shawl twisted round her waist. She was
really charming in this dress. I seized my bass. I fancied myself in the orchestra at Marseilles.

"'What would you like me to play, Mademoiselle?'

"'Do you know the shawl-dance in the ballet of Clary?'

"'Certainly; it is my favourite.'

"I began to play, Rina to dance, and the banditti to applaud. She danced admirably. The more
I looked at her, the more convinced I became that I had seen her before.

"She was in the middle of a pirouette when the door opened, and the innkeeper entering, whispered
something in the captain's ear.

"'Ove sono?' said the latter, quietly. 'Where are they?'

"'A San Dalmazio.'

"'No nearer? Then there is no hurry.'

"'What is the matter?' said Rina, executing a magnificent entrechat.

"'Nothing. Only those rascally travellers have given the alarm at Florence, and the hussars
of the Grand-duchess Eliza are looking for us.'

"'They are too late for the performance,' said Rina, laughing. 'I have finished my dance.'

"It was lucky, for the bow had fallen from my hands at the news I had just heard. Rina made
one bound to the door, and then turning, as if she had been on the stage, curtsied to the audience,
and kissed her hand to the captain. The applause was deafening; I doubt if she had ever had
such a triumph.

"'And now, to arms!' cried the captain. 'Prepare a horse for Rina and another for the musician.
We will go on foot. The road to Romagna, remember! Stragglers to rejoin at Chianciano.'

"For a few minutes all was bustle and preparation.

"'Here I am,' cried Rina, running in, attired in her Roman peasant's dress.

"'Usseri, Usseri!' said the innkeeper.

"'Off with you!' cried the captain, and every one hurried towards the stairs.

"'The devil!' said the captain, turning to me, 'you are forgetting your bass, I think.'

"I took the bass. I would willingly have crept into it. Two horses stood ready saddled at the
house door.

"'Well, Monsieur le Musicien,' said Rina, 'do you not help me to get on my horse? You are not
very gallant.'

"I held out my arm to assist her, and as I did so she put a small piece of paper into my hand.

"A cold perspiration stood upon my forehead. What could this paper be? Was it a billet-doux?
Had I been so unfortunate as to make a conquest, which would render me the rival of the captain?
My first impulse was to throw the note away; but on second thoughts I put it in my pocket.

"'Usseri, Usseri!' cried the innkeeper again, and a noise like that of a distant galloping
was heard. I scrambled on my horse, which two of the robbers took by the bridle; two others
led that of Mademoiselle Rina. The captain, with his carbine on his shoulder, ran beside his
mistress, the lieutenant accompanied me, and the remainder of the band, consisting of fifteen
or eighteen men, brought up the rear. Five or six shots were fired some three hundred yards
behind us, and the balls whistled in our ears. 'To the left!' cried the captain, and we threw
ourselves into a sort of ravine, at the bottom of which ran a rapid stream. Here we halted
and listened, and heard the hussars gallop furiously past on the high-road.

"'If they keep on at that pace, they'll soon be at Grossetto,' said the captain laughing."

This is the unfortunate musician's first essay in horsemanship, and when, after twelve hours'
march across the country, with his bass strapped upon his shoulders, he halts at the inn at
Chianciano, he is more dead than alive. He remembers, however, to read Mademoiselle Rina's
note. From this, and a few words which she takes an opportunity of saying to him, he finds
that she is an opera-dancer named Zephyrine, who had had an engagement a year or two previously
at the Marseilles theatre. She had since transferred herself to the Teatro de la Valle at Rome,
where the bandit captain, Tonino, happening to witness her performance, became enamoured of
her, and laid a plan for carrying her off, which had proved successful. Her lover, however,
Ernest, the same officer of hussars who had been M. Louet's travelling companion, is in search
of her; and, to assist him in his pursuit, she writes her name, and that of the place they
are next going to, upon the window of each inn they stop at. It was for this purpose she had
secured M. Louet's diamond ring.

If contrast was Dumas' object in writing this volume, he has certainly been highly successful
in carrying out his intention. Most writers would have contented themselves with composing
the female portion of the brigands' society, of some dark-browed Italian contadina, with flashing
eyes and jetty ringlets, a knife in her garter and a mousquetoon in her brawny fist, and a
dozen crucifixes and amulets round her neck. At most, one might have expected to meet with
some English lady in a green veil, (all English ladies, who travel, wear green veils,) whose
carriage had been attacked, and herself carried off on the road from Florence to Rome. But
M. Dumas scorns such commonplace dramatis personae, and is satisfied with nothing less than
transporting a French ballet-dancer into the Appenines, with all her paraphernalia of gauze
drapery, tinsel decorations, and opera airs and graces; not forgetting the orchestra, in the
person of the luckless bass player. Yet so ingeniously does he dovetail it all together, so
probable does he make his improbabilities appear, that we become almost reconciled to the idea
of finding Mademoiselle Zephyrine Taglionizing away upon the filthy floor of a mountain osteria,
and are inclined to be astonished that the spectators should not be provided with bouquets
to throw at her upon the conclusion of her performance.

Several days are passed in running from one place to the other, always followed by the hussars,
from whom the banditti have some narrow escapes. M. Louet is taken great care of in consideration
of his skill as a musician, and he on his part takes all imaginable care of his bass, which
he looks upon as a sort of a safeguard. At length they arrive at the castle of Anticoli, a
villa which the captain rents from a Roman nobleman, and where he considers himself in perfect
safety. Here M. Louet is installed in a magnificent apartment, where he finds linen and clothes,
of which he is much in need. His toilet completed, he is conducted to the drawing-room by a
livery servant, who bears a strong resemblance to one of his friends the banditti. But we will
let him tell his story in his own words.

"There were three persons in the room into which I was ushered; a young lady, a very elegantly
dressed man, and a French officer. I thought there must be some mistake, and was walking backwards
out of the apartment, when the lady said--

"'My dear M. Louet, where are you going? Do you not mean to dine with us?'

"'Pardon me,' said I, 'I did not recognise you, Mademoiselle.'

"'If you prefer it, you shall be served in your apartment,' said the elegant-looking man.

"'What, captain,' cried I, 'is it you?'

"'M. Louet would not be so unkind as to deprive us of his society,' said the French officer
with a polite bow. I turned to thank him for his civility. It was the lieutenant. It put me
in mind of the changes in a pantomime.

"'Al suo commodo,' said a powdered lackey, opening the folding doors of a magnificent dining-room.
The captain offered his hand to Mademoiselle Zephyrine. The lieutenant and I followed.

"'I hope you will be pleased with my cook, my dear M. Louet,' said the captain, waving me to
a chair, and seating himself. 'He is a French artist of some talent. I have ordered two or
three Provençal dishes on purpose for you.'

"'Pah! with garlic in them!' said the French officer, taking a pinch of perfumed snuff out
of a gold box. I began to think I was dreaming.

"'Have you seen the park yet, M. Louet?' asked the captain.

"'Yes, Excellency, from the window of my room.'

"'They say it is full of game. Are you fond of shooting?'

"'I delight in it. Are there any thrushes in the park?'

"'Thrushes! thousands.'

"'Bravo! You may reckon upon me, captain, for a supply of game. That is, if you will order
my fowling-piece to be returned to me. I cannot shoot well with any other.

"'Agreed,' said the captain.

"'Tonino,' said Mademoiselle Zephyrine, 'you promised to take me to the theatre to-morrow.
I am curious to see the dancer who has replaced me.'

"'There is no performance to-morrow,' replied the captain, 'and I am not sure the carriage
is in good condition. But we can take a ride to Tivoli or Subiaco, if you like.'

"'Will you come with us, my dear M. Louet?' said Mademoiselle Zephyrine.

"'Thank you,' replied I; 'I am not accustomed to ride. I would rather have a day's shooting.'

"'I will keep M. Louet company,' said the lieutenant.

"On retiring to my apartment that night, I found my fowling-piece in one corner, my game-bag
in another, and my hundred crowns on the chimney-piece. Captain Tonino was a man of his word.

"Whilst I was undressing, the French cook came to know what I would choose for breakfast. 'Count
Villaforte,' he said, 'had ordered that I should be served in my room, as I was going out shooting.'
The captain, it appeared, had changed his name as well as his dress.

"The next morning I had just dressed and breakfasted, when the lieutenant came to fetch me,
and I accompanied him down-stairs. In front of the villa four saddle-horses were being led
up and down--one for the captain, one for Mademoiselle Zephyrine, and the two others for servants.
The captain put a brace of double-barrelled pistols into his holsters, and the servants did
the same. Master and men had a sort of fancy costume, which allowed them to wear a couteau-de-chasse.
The captain saw that I remarked all these precautions.

"'The police is shocking in this country, M. Louet,' said he, 'and there are so many bad characters
about, that it is well to be armed.'

"Mademoiselle Zephyrine looked charming in her riding-habit and hat.

"'Much pleasure, my dear M. Louet,' said the captain, as he got on his horse. 'Beaumanoir,
take care of M. Louet.'

"'The best possible care, count.' replied the lieutenant.

"'The captain and Zephyrine waved their hands, and cantered away, followed by their servants.

"'Pardon me, sir,' said I, approaching the lieutenant; 'I believe it was you whom the count
addressed as Beaumanoir.'

"'It was so.'

"'I thought the family of Beaumanoir had been extinct.'

"'Very possible. I revive it, that's all.'

"'You are perfectly at liberty to do so, sir,' replied I. 'I beg pardon for the observation.'

"'Granted, granted, my dear Louet. Would you like a dog, or not?'

"'Sir, I prefer shooting without a dog. The last I had insulted me most cruelly, and I should
not like the same thing to occur again.'

"'As you please. Gaetano, untie Romeo.'

"We commenced our sport. In six shots I killed four thrushes, which satisfied me that the one
which I had followed from Marseilles had been an enchanted one. Beaumanoir laughed at me.

"'What!' cried he. 'Do you amuse yourself in firing at such game as that?'

"'Sir,' replied I, 'at Marseilles the thrush is a very rare animal. I have seen but one in
my life, and it is to that one I owe the advantage of being in your society.'

"Here and there I saw gardeners and gamekeepers whose faces were familiar to me, and who touched
their hats as I passed. They looked to me very like my old friends, the robbers, in a new dress;
but I had, of late, seen so many extraordinary things, that nothing astonished me any longer.

"The park was very extensive, and enclosed by a high wall, which had light iron gratings placed
here and there, to afford a view of the surrounding country. I happened to be standing near
one of these gratings, when M. Beaumanoir fired at a pheasant.

"'Signore,' said a countryman, who was passing, 'questo castello e il castello d'Anticoli?'

"'Villager,' I replied, walking towards the grating, 'I do not understand Italian; speak French,
and I shall be happy to answer.'

"'What! Is it you, M. Louet?' exclaimed the peasant.

"'Yes, it is,' said I; 'but how do you know my name?'

"'Hush! I am Ernest, the hussar officer, your travelling companion.'

"'M. Ernest! Ah! Mademoiselle Zephyrine will be delighted.'

"'Zephyrine is really here, then?'

"'Certainly she is. A prisoner like myself.'

"'And Count Villaforte?'

"'Is Captain Tonino.'

"'And the castle?'

"'A den of thieves.'

"'That is all I wanted to know. Adieu, my dear Louet. Tell Zephyrine she shall soon hear from
me.' So saying, he plunged into the forest.

"'Here, Romeo, here!' cried Mr. Beaumanoir to his dog, who was fetching the bird he had shot.
I hastened to him.

"'A beautiful pheasant!' cried I. 'A fine cock!'

"'Yes, yes. Who were you talking to, M. Louet?'

"'To a peasant, who asked me some question, to which I replied, that unfortunately I did not
understand Italian.'

"'Hum!' said Beaumanoir, with a suspicious side-glance at me. Then, having loaded his gun,
'We will change places, if you please,' said he. 'There may be some more peasants passing,
and, as I understand Italian, I shall be able to answer their questions.'

"'As you like, M. Beaumanoir,' said I.

"The change was effected; but no more peasants appeared.

"When we returned to the house, the captain and Zephyrine had not yet come back from their
ride, and I amused myself in my room with my bass, which I found to be an excellent instrument.
I resolved, more than ever, not to part with it, but to take it back to France with me, if
ever I returned to that country.

"At the hour of dinner, I repaired to the drawing-room, where I found Count Villaforte and
Mademoiselle Zephyrine. I had scarcely closed the door, when it was reopened, and the lieutenant
put in his head.

"'Captain!' said he, in a hurried voice.

"'Who calls me captain? Here there is no captain, my dear Beaumanoir, but a Count Villaforte.'

"'Captain, it is a serious matter. One moment, I beg.'

"The captain left the room. When the door was shut, and I was sure he could not hear me, I
told Zephyrine of my interview with her lover. I had just finished when the captain reappeared.

"'Well,' said Zephyrine, running to meet him. 'What makes you look so blank? Are there bad news?'

"'Not very good ones.'

"'Do they come from a sure source?' asked she with an anxiety which this time was not assumed.

"'From the surest possible. From one of our friends who is employed in the police.'

"'Gracious Heaven! What is going to happen?'

"'We do not know yet, but it appears we have been traced from Chianciano to the Osteria Barberini.
They only lost the scent behind Mount Gennaro. My dear Rina, I fear we must give up our visit
to the theatre to-morrow.'

"'But not our dinner to-day, captain, I hope,' said I.

"'Here is your answer,' said the captain, as the door opened, and a servant announced that
the soup was on the table.

"The captain and lieutenant dined each with a brace of pistols beside his plate, and in the
anteroom I saw two men armed with carbines. The repast was a silent one; I did not dine comfortably
myself, for I had a sort of feeling that the catastrophe was approaching, and that made me uneasy.

"'You will excuse me for leaving you,' said the captain, when dinner was over; 'but I must
go and take measures for our safety. I would advise you not to undress, M. Louet, for we may
have to make a sudden move, and it is well to be ready.'

"The lieutenant conducted me to my apartment, and wished me good-night with great politeness.
As he left the room, however, I heard that he double-locked the door. I had nothing better
to do than to throw myself on my bed, which I did; but for some hours I found it impossible
to sleep, on account of the anxieties and unpleasant thoughts that tormented me. At last I
fell into a troubled slumber.

"I do not know how long it had lasted, when I was awakened by being roughly shaken.

"'Subito! subito!' cried a voice.

"'What is the matter?' said I, sitting up on the bed.

"'Non capisco, seguir me!' cried the bandit.

"'And where am I to seguir you?' said I, understanding that he told me to follow him.

"'Avanti! Avanti!'

"'May I take my bass?' I asked.

"The man made sign in the affirmative, so I put my beloved instrument on my back, and told
him I was ready to follow him. He led me through several corridors and down a staircase; then,
opening a door, we found ourselves in the park. Day was beginning to dawn. After many turnings
and windings, we entered a copse or thicket, in the depths of which was the opening of a sort
of grotto, where one of the robbers was standing sentry. They pushed me into this grotto. It
was very dark, and I was groping about with extended arms, when somebody grasped my hand. I
was on the point of crying out; but the hand that held mine was too soft to be that of a brigand.

"'M. Louet!' said a whispering voice, which I at once recognized.

"'What is the meaning of all this, Mademoiselle?' asked I, in the same tone.

"'The meaning is, that they are surrounded by a regiment, and Ernest is at the head of it.'

"'But why are we put into this grotto?'

"'Because it is the most retired place in the whole park, and consequently the one least likely
to be discovered. Besides there is a door in it, which communicates probably with some subterraneous
passage leading into the open country.'

"Just then we heard a musket shot.

"'Bravo!' cried Zephyrine; 'it is beginning.'

"There was a running fire, then a whole volley.

"'Mademoiselle,' said I, 'it appears to me to be increasing very much.'

"'So much the better,' answered she.

"She was as brave as a lioness, that young girl. For my part I acknowledge I felt very uncomfortable.
But it appears I was doomed to witness engagements both by land and sea.

"'The firing is coming nearer,' said Zephyrine.

"'I am afraid so, Mademoiselle,' answered I.

"'On the contrary, you ought to be delighted. It is a sign that the robbers are flying.'

"'I had rather they fled in another direction.'

"There was a loud clamour, and cries as if they were cutting one another's throats, which,
in fact, they were. The shouts and cries were mingled with the noise of musketry, the sound
of the trumpets, and roll of the drum. There was a strong smell of powder. The fight was evidently
going on within a hundred yards of the grotto.

"Suddenly there was a deep sigh, then the noise of a fall, and one of the sentries at the mouth
of the cave came rolling to our feet. A random shot had struck him, and as he just fell in,
a ray of light which entered the grotto, we were able to see him writhing in the agonies of
death. Mademoiselle Zephyrine seized my hands, and I felt that she trembled violently.

"'Oh, M. Louet.' said she, 'it is very horrible to see a man die!'

"At that moment we heard a voice exclaiming--'Stop, cowardly villain! Wait for me!'

"'Ernest!' exclaimed Zephyrine. 'It is the voice of Ernest!'

"As she spoke the captain rushed in, covered with blood.

"'Zephyrine!' cried he, 'Zephyrine, where are you?'

"The sudden change from the light of day to the darkness of the cave, prevented him from seeing
us. Zephyrine made me a sign to keep silence. After remaining for a moment as if dazzled, his
eyes got accustomed to the darkness. He bounded towards us with the spring of a tiger.

"'Zephyrine, why don't you answer when I call? Come!'

"He seized her arm, and began dragging her towards the door at the back of the grotto.

"'Where are you taking me?' cried the poor girl.

"'Come with me--come along!'

"'Never!' cried she, struggling.

"'What! You won't go with me?'

"'No; why should I? I detest you. You carried me off by force. I won't follow you. Ernest,
Ernest, here!'

"'Ernest!' muttered the captain. 'Ha! 'Tis you, then, who betrayed us?'

"'M. Louet!' cried Zephyrine, 'if you are a man, help me!'

"I saw the blade of a poniard glitter. I had no weapon, but I seized my bass by the handle,
and, raising it in the air, let it fall with such violence on the captain's skull, that the
back of the instrument was smashed in and the bandit's head disappeared in the interior of
the bass. Either the violence of the blow, or the novelty of finding his head in a bass, so
astonished the captain that he let go his hold of Zephyrine, at the same time uttering a roar
like that of a mad bull.

"'Zephyrine! Zephyrine!' cried a voice outside.

"'Ernest!' answered the young girl, darting out of the grotto.

"I followed her, terrified at my own exploit. She was already clasped in the arms of her lover.

"'In there,' cried the young officer to a party of soldiers who just then came up. 'He is in
there. Bring him out, dead or alive.'

"They rushed in, but the broken bass was all they found. The captain had escaped by the other door.

"On our way to the house we saw ten or twelve dead bodies. One was lying on the steps leading
to the door.

"'Take away this carrion,' said Ernest.

"Two soldiers turned the body over. It was the last of the Beaumanoirs.

"We remained but a few minutes at the house, and then Zephyrine and myself got into a carriage
and set off, escorted by M. Ernest and a dozen men. I did not forget to carry off my hundred
crowns, my fowling-piece, and game-bag. As to my poor bass, the captain's head had completely
spoiled it.

"After an hour's drive, we came in sight of a large city with an enormous dome the middle of
it. It was Rome.

"'And did you see the Pope, M. Louet?'

"'At that time he was at Fontainbleau, but I saw him afterwards, and his successor too; for
M. Ernest got me an appointment as bass-player at the Teatro de la Valle, and I remained there
till the year 1830. When I at last returned to Marseilles, they did not know me again, and
for some time refused to give me back my place in the orchestra, under pretence that I was
not myself.'

"'And Mademoiselle Zephyrine?'

"'I heard that she married M. Ernest, whose other name I never knew, and that he became a general,
and she a very great lady."

"'And Captain Tonino? Did you hear nothing more of him?'

"'Three years afterwards he came to the theatre in disguise; was recognised, arrested, and hung.'

"'And thus it was, sir,' concluded M. Louet, 'that a thrush led me into Italy, and caused me
to pass twenty years at Rome.'"

And so ends the thrush-hunt. One word at parting, to qualify any too sweeping commendation
we may have bestowed on M. Dumas in the early part of this paper. While we fully exonerate
his writings from the charge of grossness, and recognise the absence of those immoral and pernicious
tendencies which disfigure the works of many gifted French writers of the day, we would yet
gladly see him abstain from the somewhat too Decameronian incidents and narratives with which
he occasionally varies his pages. That he is quite independent of such meretricious aids, is
rendered evident by his entire avoidance of them in some of his books, which are not on that
account a whit the less piquant. With this single reservation, we should hail with pleasure
the appearance on our side the Channel of a few such sprightly and amusing writers as Alexander
Dumas.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGH LIFE IN THE LAST CENTURY.[5]

    [5] George Selwyn and his Contemporaries, with Memoirs and Notes.
    By T.H. Jesse. 4 vols.

The volumes of which we are about to give fragments and anecdotes, contain a portion of the
letters addressed to a man of witty memory, whose existence was passed almost exclusively among
men and women of rank; his life, in the most expressive sense of the word, West End; and even
in that West End, his chief haunt St James's Street. Parliament and the Clubs divided his day,
and often his night. The brilliant roués, the steady gamesters, the borough venders, and the
lordly ex-members of ex-cabinets, were the only population of whose living and breathing he
suffered himself to have any cognizance. In reverse of Gray's learned mouse, eating its way
through the folios of an ancient library--and to whom

  "A river or a sea was but a dish of tea,
  And a kingdom bread and butter,"

to George Selwyn, the world and all that it inhabits, were concentrated in Charles Fox, William
Pitt, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, and the circle of men of pleasantry, loose lives, and vivacious
temperaments, who, with whatever diminishing lustre, revolved round them.

Of the City of London, Selwyn probably had heard; for though fixed to one spot, he was a man
fond of collecting curious knowledge; but nothing short of proof positive can ever convince
us that he had passed Temple Bar. He, of course, knew that there were such things on the globe
as merchants and traders, because their concerns were occasionally talked of in "the House,"
where, however, he heard as little as possible about them; for in the debates of the time he
took no part but that of a listener, and even then he abridged the difficulty, by generally
sleeping through the sitting. He was supposed to be the only rival of Lord North in the happy
faculty of falling into a sound slumber at the moment when any of those dreary persons, who
chiefly speak on such subjects, was on his legs. St James's, and the talk of St James's, were
his business, his pleasures, the exciters of his wit, and the rewarders of his toil. He had
applied the art of French cookery to the rude material of the world, and refined and reduced
all things into a sauce piquante--all its realities were concentrated in essences; and, disdaining
the grosser tastes of mankind, he lived upon the aroma of high life--an epicure even among
epicures; yet not an indolent enjoyer of the luxuries of his condition, but a keen, restless,
and eager student of pleasurable sensations--an Apicius, polished by the manners, and furnished
with the arts of the most self-enjoying condition of mankind, that of an English gentleman
of fortune in the 18th century.

We certainly are not the champions of this style of life. We think that man has other matters
to consider than pâtés and consommés, the flavour of his Burgundy and pines, or even the bons-mots
of his friends. We are afraid that we must, after all, regard the whole Selwyn class as little
better than the brutes in their stables, or on their hearth-rugs; with the advantage to the
brutes of following their natural appetites, having no twinges of either conscience or the
gout, and not being from time to time stripped by their friends, or plundered by the Jews.
The closing hours of the horse or the dog are also, perhaps, more complacent in general, and
their deaths are less a matter of rejoicing to those who are to succeed to their mangers and
cushions. Of higher and more startling contemplations, this is not the place to speak. If such
men shall yet have the power of looking down from some remoter planet on their idle, empty,
and self-indulgent course in our own, perhaps they would rejoice to have exchanged with the
lot of him whose bread was earned by the sweat of his brow, yet who had fulfilled the duties
of his station; and whose hand had been withheld by necessity from that banquet, where all
the nobler purposes of life were forgotten, and where the senses absorbed the higher nature.
Still, we admit that these are topics on which no man ought to judge the individual with severity.
We have spoken only of the class. The individual may have had virtues of which the world can
know nothing; he may have been liberal, affectionate, and zealous, when his feelings were once
awakened; his purse may have dried many a tear, and soothed many a pulse of secret suffering.
It is, at all events, more kindly to speak of poor human nature with fellow feeling for those
exposed to the strong temptations of fortune, than to establish an arrogant comparison between
the notorious errors of others, and the secret failures of our own.

But we have something to settle with Mr Jesse. He is alive, and therefore may be instructed;
he is making books with great rapidity, and therefore may be advantageously warned of the perils
of book-making. The title of his volumes has altogether deceived us. We shall not charge him
with intending this; but it has unquestionably had the effect. "George Selwyn and his contemporaries."
We opened the volumes, expecting to find our witty clubbist in every page; George in his full
expansion, "in his armour as he lived;" George, every inch a wit, glittering before us in his
full court suit, in his letters, his anecdotes, his whims, his odd views of mankind, his caustic
sneerings at the glittering world round him; an epistolary HB., turning every thing into the
pleasant food of his pen and pungency. But we cannot discover any letters from him, excepting
a few very trifling ones of his youth. We have letters from all sorts of persons, great lords
and little, statesmen and travellers, placemen and place-hunters; and amusing enough many of
them are. Walpole furnishes some sketches, and nothing can be better. In fact the volumes exhibit,
not George Selwyn, the only one whose letters we should have cared to see, but those who wrote
to him. And the disappointment is not the less, that in those letters constant allusions are
made to his "sparkling, delightful, sportive, characteristic, &c. &c., epistles." Great ladies
constantly urge him to write to them. Maids, wives, and widows, pour out a stream of perpetual
laudation. Men of rank, men of letters, men at home, and men abroad, unite in one common supplication
for "London news" réchaufféed, spiced, and served up, by the perfect cuisinerie of George's
art of story-telling; like the horse-leech's two daughters, the cry is, "Give, give." And this
is what we wanted to see. Selwyn, the whole Selwyn, and nothing but Selwyn.

It is true that there is a preface which talks in this wise:--

It seems to have been one of the peculiarities of George Selwyn, to preserve not only every
letter addressed to him by his correspondents during the course of his long life, but also
the most trifling notes and memoranda. To this peculiarity, the reader is indebted for whatever
amusement he may derive from the perusal of these volumes. The greater portion of their contents
consists of letters addressed to Selwyn, by persons who, in their day, moved in the first circles
of wit, genius, and fashion."

We have thus let Mr Jesse speak for himself. If the public are satisfied, so let it be. But
people seldom read prefaces. The title is the thing, and that title is, "George Selwyn and
his contemporaries." If it had been "Letters of the contemporaries of George Selwyn," we should
have understood the matter.

Still we are not at all disposed to quarrel with the volumes. They contain a great deal of
pleasant matter; and the letters are evidently, in general, the work of a higher order of persons
than the world has often an opportunity of seeing in their deshabille. The Persian proverb,
which accounted for the fragrance of a pebble by its having lain beside the rose, has been
in some degree realized in these pages. They are evidently of the Selwyn school; and if he
is not here witty himself, he is, like the "fat knight," the cause of wit in others. We are
enjoying a part of the feast which his science had cooked, and then distributed to his friends
to figure as the chefs-d'oeuvre of their own tables. At all events, though often on trifling
subjects, and often not worth preserving, they vindicate on the whole the claim of English
letter-writing to European superiority. Taking Walpole as the head, and nothing can be happier
than his mixture of keen remark, intelligent knowledge of his time, high-bred ease of language,
and exquisite point and polish of anecdote; his followers, even in these few volumes, show
that there were many men, even in the midst of all the practical business and nervous agitation
of public life, not unworthy of their master. We have no doubt that there have been hundreds
of persons, and thousands of letters, which might equally contribute to this most interesting,
and sometimes most brilliant, portion of our literature. The French lay claim to superiority
in this as in every thing else; but we must acknowledge that it is with some toil we have ever
read the boasted letters of De Sévigné--often pointed, and always elegant, they are too often
frivolous, and almost always local. We are sick of the adorable Grignan, and her "belle chevelure."
The letters of Du Deffand, Espinasse, Roland, and even of De Staël, though always exhibiting
ability, are too hard or too hot, too fierce or too fond, for our tastes; they are also so
evidently intended for any human being except the one to whom they were addressed, or rather
for all human beings--they were so palpably "private effusions" for the public ear--sentiments
stereotyped, and sympathies for the circulating library--that they possessed as little the
interest as the character of correspondence.

Voltaire's letters are always spirited. That extraordinary man could do nothing on which his
talent was not marked; but his letters are epigrammes--all is sacrificed to point, and all
is written for the salons of Paris. What Talleyrand's might be, we can imagine from the singular
subtlety and universal knowledge of that most dexterous player of the most difficult game which
was ever on the diplomatic cards. But as his definition of the excellence of a letter was--"to
say any thing, but mean nothing," we must give up the hope of his contribution. Grimm's volumes
are, after all, the only collection which belongs to the style of letters to which we allude.
They are amusing and anecdotical, and, in our conception, by much the most intelligent French
correspondence that has fallen into our hands. But they are too evidently the work of a man
writing as a task, gathering the Parisian news as a part of his profession, and in fact sending
a daily newspaper to his German patron.

Of the German epistolary literature we have seen nothing which approaches to the excellence
of the English school. The conception is generally vague, vapourish, and metaphysical. And
this predominates absurdly through all its classes. The poet prides himself on being as much
a dreamer in his prose as in his poetry; the scholar is proud of being perplexed and pedantic;
the statesman is naturally immersed in that problematic style, which belongs to the secrecy
of despotic governments, and to the stiffness of circles where all is etiquette. But Walpole
and his tribe have fashion wholly to themselves, and possess force without heaviness, and elegance
without effeminacy.

We are strongly tempted to ask, whether there may not be letters of the gay, the refined, and
the sparkling George Canning. He was constantly writing; knew every thing and every body; was
engaged in all the high transactions of his time; saw human nature in all possible shades;
and was a man whose talent, though capable of very noble efforts "on compulsion," yet naturally
loved a more level rank of times and things. It is perfectly true to human experience, that
there are minds, which, like caged nightingales and canary-birds, though their wings were formed
with the faculty of cleaving the clouds, yet pass a perfectly contented existence within their
wires, and sing as cheerfully in return for their water and seeds, as if they had the range
of the horizon. Canning's whole song for thirty years was in one cage or another, and he sang
with equal cheerfulness in them all. The moral of all this is, that we wish Mr Jesse, or any
one else, to apply himself, without delay, to the depositaries of George Canning's familiar
correspondence, and give his pleasant, piquant, and graceful letters (for we are sure that
they are all these) to the world.

Lord Dudley's letters have disappointed every body: but it is to be observed, that we have
only a small portion of them; that they were written to a college tutor, a not very exciting
species of correspondent at any time, and who in this instance having nothing to give back,
and plodding his way through the well-meant monotony of college news, allowed poor Lord Dudley
not much more chance of brilliancy, than a smart drummer might have of producing a reveillé
on an unbraced drum. We must live in hope.

Lord Holland, we think, might, as the sailors say, "loom out large." The life of that ancient
Whig having been chiefly employed in telling other men's stories over his own table--and much
better employed, too, than in talking his original follies in public--a tolerable selection
from his journals might furnish some variety; for when Whigs are cased up no longer in the
stiff braces and battered armour of their clique, they may occasionally be amusing men. But
Walpole still reigns: his whims, his flirtings, his frivolities will disappear with his old
china and trifling antiquities; but his best letters will always be the best of their kind
among men.

George Selwyn was a man of fashionable life for the greater part of the last century, or perhaps
we may more justly say, he was a man of fashionable life for the seventy-two years of his existence;
for, from his cradle, he lived among that higher order of mankind who were entitled to do nothing,
to enjoy themselves, and alternately laugh at, and look down upon the rest of the world. His
family were opulent, and naturally associated with rank; for his father had been aide-de-camp
to the Duke of Marlborough--a great distinction even in that brilliant age; and his mother
was the daughter of a general officer, and woman of the bedchamber to Queen Caroline. She is
recorded as a woman of talents, and peculiarly of wit; qualities which seem frequently connected
with long life, perhaps as bearing some relation to that good-humour which undoubtedly tends
to lengthen the days of both man and woman. If the theory be true, that the intellect of the
offspring depends upon the mother, the remarkable wit of George Selwyn may be adduced in evidence
of the position.

George, born in 1719, was sent, like the sons of all the court gentlemen of his age and of
our own, to Eton. After having there acquired classics, aristocracy, and cricket, all consummated
at Oxford, he proceeded to go through the last performance of fashionable education, and give
himself the final polish for St James's; he proceeded to make the tour of Europe. What induced
him to recommence his boyhood, by returning to Oxford at the ripe age of twenty-five, is among
the secrets of his career, as also is the occasion of his being expelled from the university;
if that occasion is not to be found in some of the burlesques of religion which he had learned
amongst the fashionable infidels of the Continent, similar to those enacted by Wilkes in his
infamous monkery. But every thing in his career equally exhibits the times. At an age when
he was fit for nothing else, he was considered fit to receive the salary of a sinecure; and,
at twenty-one, he was appointed to a brace of offices at the mint. His share of the duty consisted
of his enjoying the weekly dinners of the establishment, and signing the receipts for his quarter's
pay.

Within a few years more, he came into parliament; and in his thirty-second year, by the death
of his father and elder brother, he succeeded to the family estates, consisting of three handsome
possessions, one of which had the additional value of returning a member of parliament. Nor
was this all; for his influence in Gloucestershire enabled him to secure, during many years,
his own seat for Gloucester, thus rendering his borough disposable; and thus, master of a hereditary
fortune, an easy sinecurist, the possessor of two votes, and the influencer of the third--a
man of family, a man of connexion, and a man of the court--George Selwyn began a path strewed
with down and rose leaves.

In addition to these advantages, George Selwyn evidently possessed a very remarkable subtlety
and pleasantry of understanding; that combination which alone produced true wit, or which,
perhaps, would be the best definition of wit itself; for subtlety alone may excite uneasy sensations
in the hearer, and pleasantry alone may often be vulgar. But the acuteness which detects the
absurd of things, and the pleasantry which throws a good-humoured coloring over the acuteness,
form all that delights us in wit.

If we are to judge by the opinion of his contemporaries, and this is the true criterion after
all, Selwyn's wit must have been of the very first order in a witty age. Walpole is full of
him. Walpole himself, a wit, and infinitely jealous of every rival in every thing on which
he fastened his fame, from a picture gallery down to a snuff-box, or from a history down to
an epigram, bows down to him with almost Persian idolatry. His letters are alive with George
Selwyn. The bons-mots which Selwyn carelessly dropped in his morning wall through St James's
Street, are carefully picked up by Walpole, and planted in his correspondence, like exotics
in a greenhouse. The careless brilliancies of conversation, which the one threw loose about
the club-rooms of the Court End, are collected by the other and reset by this dexterous jeweller,
for the sparklings and ornaments of his stock in trade with posterity.

Yet it may reconcile those less gifted by nature and fortune to their mediocrity; to know that
those singular advantages by no means constitute happiness, usefulness, moral dignity, or even
public respect. Selwyn, as the French Abbé said, "had nothing to do, and he did it." His possession
of fortune enabled him to be a lounger through life, and he lounged accordingly. The conversations
of the clubs supplied him with the daily toys of his mind, and he never sought more substantial
employment. Though nearly fifty years in parliament, he was known only as a silent voter; and,
after a life of seventy-two years, he died, leaving three and twenty thousand pounds of his
savings to a girl who was not his daughter; and the chief part of his estates to the Duke of
Queensberry, an old man already plethoric with wealth, of which he had never known the use,
and already dying.

His passion for attending executions was notorious and unaccountable, except on the ground
of that love of excitement which leads others to drinking or the gaming-table. Those sights,
from which human nature shrinks, appear to have been sought for by Selwyn with an eagerness
resembling enjoyment. This strange propensity was frequently laughed at by his friends. Alluding
to the practice of criminals dropping a handkerchief as a signal for the executioner, says
Walpole, "George never thinks, but à la tête tranchée.

Another characteristic anecdote is told on this subject.

Walpole says, after telling a story of one Arthur Moore, "I told this the other day to George
Selwyn, whose passion is to see corpses and executions. Walpole then mentions Selwyn's going
to see Cornberry, with Lord Abergavenny and a pretty Mrs Frere, who were in some degree attached
to each other.

"Do you know what you missed in the other room?" said Selwyn to the lady.

Walpole, speaking of the share which he had in capturing a house-breaker, says, "I dispatched
a courier to White's in search of George Selwyn.

But some of his practical pleasantries were very amusing. Lady Townshend, a woman of wit, but,
in some points of character, a good deal scandalized, was supposed to have taken refuge from
her recollections in Popery.

Every one knows that bons-mots are apt to lose a great deal by transmission. It has been said
that the time is one-half of the merit, and the manner the other; thus leaving nothing for
the wit. But the fact is, that the wit so often depends upon both, as to leave the best bon-mot
comparatively flat in the recital. With this palliative we may proceed. Walpole, remarking
to Selwyn one day, at a time of considerable popular discontent, that the measures of government
were as feeble and confused as in the reign of the first Georges, and saying, "There is nothing
new under the sun." "No," replied Selwyn, "nor under the grandson."

The next is better. A man named Charles Fox having been executed, the celebrated Charles asked
Selwyn whether he had been present at the execution as usual. "No," was the keen reply, "I
make a point of never attending rehearsals."

Fox and General Fitzpatrick at one time lodged in the house of Mackay, an oilman in Piccadilly,
a singular residence for two men of the first fashion. Somebody, probably in allusion to their
debts, observed that such lodgers would be the ruin of Mackay. "No," said Selwyn, "it will
make his fortune. He may boast of having the first pickles in London."

Nonchalant manners were the tone of the time; and to cut one's country acquaintance (a habit
learned among the French noblesse) was high breeding. An old haunter of the pump-room in Bath,
who had frequently conversed with Selwyn in his visits there, meeting him one day in St James's
Street, attempted to approach him with his usual familiarity. Selwyn passed him as if he had
never seen him before. His old acquaintance followed him, and said, "Sir, you knew me very
well in Bath." "Well, sir," replied Selwyn, "in Bath I may possibly know you again," and walked on.

When High Life Below Stairs was announced, Selwyn expressed a wish to be present at its first
night. "I shall go," said he, "because I am tired of low life above stairs."

One of the waiters at Arthur's had committed a felony, and was sent to jail. "I am shocked
at the committal," said Selwyn; "what a horrid idea the fellow will give of us to the people
in Newgate."

Bruce's Abyssinian stories were for a long time the laugh of London. Somebody at a dinner once
asked him, whether he had seen any relics of musical instruments among the Abyssinians, or
any thing in the style of the ancient sculptures of the Thebaid. "I think I saw one lyre there,"
was the answer. "Ay," says Selwyn to his neighbour, "and that one left the country along with him."

Selwyn did not always spare his friends. When Fox's pecuniary affairs were in a state of ruin,
and a subscription was proposed; one of the subscribers said that their chief difficulty was
to know "how Fox would take it." Selwyn, who knew that necessity has nothing to do with delicacies
of this order, replied, "Take it, why, quarterly to be sure!"

Mr. Jesse's anecdotes are generally well told, but their version is sometimes different from
ours. Selwyn was one day walking up St James's Street with Lord Pembroke, when a couple of
sweeps brushed against them. "Impudent rascals!" exclaimed Lord Pembroke. "The sovereignty
of the people," said Selwyn. "But such dirty dogs," said Pembroke. "Full dress for the court
of St Giles's," said Selwyn, with a bow to their sable majesties.

But Selwyn, with all his affability and pleasantry, had his dislikes, and among them was the
celebrated Sheridan. The extraordinary talent and early fame of that most memorable and unfortunate
man, had fixed all eyes upon him from the moment of his entering into public life; and Selwyn,
who had long sat supreme in wit, probably felt some fears for his throne. At all events, he
determined to keep one place clear from collision with this dangerous wit; and, on every attempt
to put up Sheridan's name for admission into Brookes's, two black balls were found in the balloting-box,
one of which was traced to Selwyn, while the other was supposed to be that of Lord Besborough.
One ball being sufficient to exclude, the opposition was fatal; but Fox and his friends were
equally determined, on their side, to introduce Sheridan; and for this purpose a curious, though
not very creditable, artifice was adopted. On the evening of the next ballot, and while George
and Lord Besborough were waiting, with their usual determination, to blackball the candidate,
a chairman in great haste brought in a note, apparently from Lady Duncannon, to her father-in-law
Lord Besborough, to tell him that his house in Cavendish Square was on fire, and entreating
him to return without a moment's delay. His lordship instantly quitted the room, and hurried
homewards. Immediately after, a message was sent to George Selwyn that Miss Fagniani, the child
whom he had adopted, and whom he supposed to be his own, was suddenlly seized with a fit, and
that his presence was instantly required. He also obeyed the summons. Both had no sooner left
the room than the ballot was proceeded with, the two ominous balls were not to be found, and
Sheridan was unanimously chosen. In the midst of the triumph, Selwyn and Lord Besborough returned,
indignant at the trick, but of course unable to find out its perpetrators. How Sheridan and
his friends looked may be imagined. The whole scene was perfectly dramatic.

Burke's speeches, which were destined to become the honour of his age, and the delight of posterity,
were sometimes negligently received by the house. His splendid prolixity, which was fitter
for an assembly of philosophers than an English Parliament, sometimes wearied mere men of business,
as much as his fine metaphysics sometimes perplexed them; and the man who might have sat between
Plato and Aristotle, and been listened to with congenial delight by both, was often left without
an audience. One night, when Selwyn was hurrying into the lobby with a crowd of members, a
nobleman coming up asked him, "Is the house up?" "No," was the reply, "but Burke is."

A model of fashionable life, Selwyn unhappily indulged in that vice which was presumed to be
essential to the man of fashion. The early gaming propensities of Charles Fox are well known;
he was ruined, estate, personal fortune, sinecures and reversions, and all, before he was five
years in public life--ruined in every possible shape of ruin. There were times when he could
not command a guinea in the world. Yet there were times when he won immensely. At one sitting
he carried off £8000, but in a few more he lost £11,000. He was a capital whist player; and
in the cool calculation of the clubs on such subjects, it was supposed that he might have made
£4000 a-year, if he had adhered to this profitable direction of his genius. But, like many
other great men, he mistook his forte, and disdained all but the desperation of hazard. There
he lost perpetually and prodigiously, until he was stripped of every thing, and pauperised
for life.

It gives a strong conception of the universality of this vice, to find so timid and girlish
a nature as the late William Wilberforce's initiated into the same career.

We have no idea of entering into any of the scandals of the time. The lives of all the men
of fashion of that day were habitually profligate. The "Grand Tour" was of but little service
to their morals, and Pope's sarcastic lines were but too true.

        "He travell'd Europe round,
  And gather'd every vice on foreign ground;
  Till home return'd, and perfectly well-bred,
  With nothing but a solo in his head;
  Stolen from a duel, follow'd by a nun,
  And, if a borough choose him--not undone."

But this vice did not descend among the body of the people. It was limited to the idlers of
high life, and even among them it was extinguished by the cessation of our foreign intercourse
at the French revolution; or was at least so far withdrawn from the public eye, as to avoid
offending the common decencies of a moral people.

Selwyn was probably more cautious in his habits than his contemporaries, for he survived almost
every man who had begun life with him; and he lived to a much greater age than the chief of
the showy characters who rose into celebrity during his career. He died at the age of seventy-two,
January 25, 1791. He had long relinquished gaming, assigning the very sufficient reason, "It
was too great a consumer of four things--time, health, fortune, and thinking." But what man
of his day escaped the gout, and the natural termination of that torturing disease in dropsy?
After seven years' suffering from both, with occasional intervals of relief, he sank at last.
He writes a few days after, "Poor Selwyn is gone; to my sorrow; and no wonder. Ucalegon feels it."

Selwyn, with all his pleasantry, had evidently a quick eye for his own interest. He contrived
to remain in parliament for half a century, and he gathered the emoluments of some half dozen
snug sinecures. Among those were the Registrar of Chancery in Barbadoes, and surveyor-general
of the lands. Thus he lived luxuriously, and died rich.

Orator Henley is niched in an early part of this correspondence. The orator was known in the
last century as a remarkably dirty fellow in his apparel, and still more so in his mind. He
was the son of a gentleman, and had received a gentleman's education at St John's, Cambridge.
There, or subsequently, he acquired Hebrew, and even Persian; wrote a tragedy on the subject
of Esther, in which he exhibited considerable poetic powers; and finished his scholastic fame
by a grammar of ten languages! On leaving college, he took orders, and became a country curate.
But the decency of this life did not suit his habits, and he resolved to try his chance in
London for fortune and fame. Opening a chapel near Newport market, Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, he
harangued twice a-week, on theological subjects on Sundays, and on the sciences and literature
on Wednesdays. The audience were admitted by a shilling ticket, and the butchers in the neighbourhood
were for a while his great patrons. At length, finding his audience tired of common sense,
he tried, like other charlatans since his day, the effect of nonsense. His manner was theatrical,
his style eccentric, and his topics varied between extravagance and buffoonery. The history
of such performances is invariably the same--novelty is essential, and novelty must be attained
at all risks. He now professed to reform all literature, and all religion. But even this ultimately
failed him. At length the butchers deserted him, and, falling from one disgrace to another,
he sank into dirt and debauchery, and died in 1750 at the age of sixty-four, remembered in
the world only by being pilloried in the Dunciad.

The orator's contribution consists but of two notes; the first to Selwyn--

  "I dine at twelve all the year, but shall be glad to take a glass
  with you at the King's Arms any day from four to six. If I have
  disobliged Mr Parsons, (who I hear was with you,) or any of you
  gentlemen, I never intended it, and ask your pardons. I shall be
  proud to oblige my Lord Carteret, or you, or the rest, at any time.
  Pray let them see this."

  "J. HENLEY."

There appears to have been some kind of riot at one of Henley's lectures, probably a rough
burlesque of his manner, in which Selwyn, then a student of Oxford, made himself conspicuous.
At least the letter is addressed to him.

"I am accountable for the peace of my congregation; and among the rules and articles of my
consent and conditions as owner and minister, one rule is, to go out directly, forfeiting what
has been given, if any person cannot or will not preserve those conditions; for the smallest
circumstance of disorder has been inflamed to the highest outrage. The bishop's nephew began
something of the kind two months ago, and made me retribution; so have others, and I must send
an attorney to warn them not to come whom I suspect hereafter. You have been at his sport before."

We now come to a man of more importance, Richard Rigby, the "blushing Rigby" of Junius. He
was the son of a linen-draper, who, as factor to the South Sea Company, acquired considerable
property. This, however, his son, who had adopted public life as his pursuit, rapidly squandered
in electioneering, in pleasure, and the irresistible vice of the time, play. Frederic, Prince
of Wales, was the first object of all needy politicians, and Rigby for a while attached himself
to this feeble personage with all the zeal of a prospective placeman. But the prince remained
too long in opposition for the fidelity of courtiership, and Rigby glided over to the Duke
of Bedford; who unquestionably exhibited himself a steady and zealous friend to his new adherent.
The duke lent him money to pay his debts; gave him the secretaryship for Ireland on his appointment
to the viceroyalty; gave him a seat in Parliament for Tavistock; was the means of his being
made a privy counsellor; obtained for him a sinecure of L.4000 a-year; and at that period when
most men are sincere, on his deathbed, appointed Rigby his executor, and cancelled his bond
for the sum which he had originally lent to him.

We know few instances of such steady liberality in public life, and the man who gave, and the
man who received those munificent tokens of confidence, must have had more in them than the
world was generally inclined to believe. The duke has been shot through and through by the
pungent shafts of Junius: and Rigby was covered with mire throughout life by all the retainers
of party. Yet both were evidently capable of strong friendship, and thus possessed the redeeming
quality most unusual in the selfishness and struggles of political existence.

Amongst official men, Rigby is recorded as one of the most popular personages of his time.
One art of official popularity, and that too a most unfailing one, he adopted in a remarkable
degree--he kept an incomparable table. Sir Robert Walpole, one of the shrewdest of men, had
long preserved his popularity by the same means. Rigby's paymastership of the forces enabled
him to support a splendid establishment, and it was his custom, after the debates in the House
of Commons, to invite the ministers and the pleasantest men of the time, to supper at his apartments
in Whitehall. His wines were exquisite, his cookery was of the most recherché order; and by
the help of a good temper, a broad laugh, natural joviality, and a keen and perfect knowledge
of all that was going on round him in the world of fashion, he made his parties a delightful
resource to the wearied minds of the Cabinet.

Wraxall, a very pleasant describer of men and manners, thus sketches him:--"In Parliament he
was invariably habited in a full-dress suit of clothes, commonly of a dark colour, without
lace or embroidery, close buttoned, with his sword thrust through the pocket. His countenance
was very expressive, but not of genius; still less did it indicate timidity or modesty. All
the comforts of the pay-office seemed to be eloquently depicted in it; his manner, rough yet
frank, admirably set off whatever sentiments he uttered in Parliament. Like Jenkinson, he borrowed
neither from ancient nor modern authors; his eloquence was altogether his own, addressed not
to the fancy, but to the plain comprehension of his hearers. There was a happy audacity about
him, which must have been the gift of nature--art could not obtain it by any efforts. He seemed
not to fear, nor even to respect, the House, whose composition he well knew; and to the members
of which assembly he never appeared to give credit for any portion of virtue, patriotism, or
public spirit. Far from concealing those sentiments, he insinuated, or even pronounced them,
without disguise; and from his lips they neither excited surprise, nor even commonly awaked
reprehension."

But this flow of prosperity was to have its ebb. The jovial placeman was to feel the uncertainties
of office; and on Lord North's resignation in 1782, and the celebrated Edmund Burke's appointment
to the paymastership, Rigby found himself suddenly called on for a considerable arrear. It
had been the custom to allow the paymaster to make use of the balances in his hands until they
were called for, and this formed an acknowledged and very important part of his income. But
his expenses left him no resource to meet the demand. Whether fortunately or unfortunately,
Sir Thomas Rumbold, the recalled governor of Madras, had just then returned to England, under
investigation by the House of Commons for malpractices in his office. It was the rumour of
the day that Rigby, on the advance of a large sum by Rumbold, had undertaken to soften the
prosecution against him. Whether this were the fact or not, it is certain that the charges
soon ceased to be pursued, and that Rigby's nephew and heir was soon after married to Rumbold's
daughter. Rigby, who had never been married, died in 1788, in his sixty-seventh year.

His letter to Selwyn, in 1745, is characteristic of the man and the time. "I am just got home
from a cock match, where I have won forty pounds in ready money, and not having dined, am waiting
till I hear the rattle of the coaches from the House of Commons, in order to dine at White's.

"I held my resolution of not going to the Ridotto till past three o'clock, when, finding that
nobody was willing to sit any longer but Boone, who was not able, I took, as I thought, the
least of two evils, and so went there rather than to bed; but found it so infinitely dull,
that I retired in half an hour. The next morning I heard that there had been extreme deep play,
and that Harry Furnese went drunk from White's at six o'clock, and won the dear memorable sum
of one thousand guineas.

"I saw Garrick in Othello that same night, in which, I think, he was very unmeaningly dressed,
and succeeded in no degree of comparison with Quin, except in the second scene, where Iago
gives the first suspicions of Desdemona."

As the letter does not describe Garrick's dress, we can only suppose it to have been remarkably
absurd, when it could have attracted the censure of any one accustomed to the stage in the
middle of the last century. Nothing could be more ignorant, unsuitable, or unbecoming, that
the whole system of theatrical costume. Garrick, for example, usually played Macbeth in the
uniform of an officer of the Guards--scarlet coat, cocked hat, and regulation sword, were the
exhibition of the Highland chieftain's wardrobe, and the period, too, when the Highland dress
was perfectly known to the public eye. It must be acknowledged that we owe the reformation
of the stage, in this important point, to the French. It was commenced by the celebrated Clairon,
and perfected by the not less celebrated Talma.

"I supped that night, tête-à-tête, with Metham, who was d----d angry with Hubby Bubby (Doddington)
for having asked all the Musquetaires to supper but him. He went to sleep at twelve, and I
to White's, where I staid till six. Yesterday I spent a good part of the day with my Lord Coke
at a cock match; and went, towards the latter end of Quin's benefit, to Mariamne.

"The coaches rattle by fast, and George brings me word the House is up, and I assure you I
am extremely hungry."

We now come to the name of a man who attained a considerable celebrity in his own time, but
has almost dropped into oblivion in ours, Sir Charles Hanbury Williams. He was the third son
of John Hanbury, Esq., a Monmouthshire gentleman, and took the name of Williams on succeeding
to the property of his grandfather. His mother was aunt to George Selwyn. Entering Parliament
early in life, he adopted the ministerial side, and was a steady adherent to Sir Robert Walpole.
He had his reward in ministerial honours, being created a Knight of the Bath; and though Sir
Robert died in 1745, Williams had so far established his court influence, that he was successively
appointed envoy to Saxony, minister at Berlin, and ambassador at St Petersburg. He was a man
of great pleasantry, some wit, and perpetual verse-making--the name of poetry is not to be
stooped to such compositions as his; but their liveliness and locality, their application to
existing times and persons, and their occasional hits at politics and principles, made both
them and their author popular. But the fashionable language of the day had tendencies which
would not now be tolerated; and Sir Charles, a fashionable voluptuary, is charged with having
written what none should wish to revive. After a residence of ten years on the Continent, he
fell into a state of illness which deranged his understanding. From this he recovered, but
subsequently relapsed into the same unhappy state, and died, it was surmised, by his own hand
in 1759. His letter details, in his own flighty style, one of the frolics of fashion.

"The town-talk for some time past has been your child, (a note says 'apparently the Honourable
John Hobart, afterwards Earl of Buckinghamshire;') the moment you turned your back he flew
out, went to Lady Tankerville's drum-major, (a rout,) having unfortunately dined that day with
Rigby, who plied his head with too many bumpers, and also made him a present of some Chinese
crackers. Armed in this manner, he entered the assembly, and resolving to do something that
should make a noise, he gave a string of four and twenty crackers to Lady Lucy Clinton, and
bid her put it in the candle, which she very innocently did, to her and the whole room's astonishment.
But when the first went off she threw the rest upon the tea-table, where, one after the other,
they all went off, with much noise and not a little stench, to the real joy of most of the
women present, who don't dislike an opportunity of finding fault. Lady Lucy, indeed, was plentifully
abused, and Mr Hobart had his share; and common fame says he has never had a card since. Few
women will curtsy to him; and I question if he ever will lead any one to their chair again
as long as he lives. I leave you to judge how deeply he feels this wound. Every body says it
would never have happened if you had not retired to your studies; and you are a little blamed
for letting him out alone. He has sunk his chairman's wages 5s. a-week upon this accident,
and intends to turn them off in Passion week, because he then can go nowhere at all. All private
houses are already shut against him, and at that holy time no public place is open."

We have then some letters written in a time of great public anxiety, 1745.

"All our forces are come from Flanders. The Pretender's second son (Henry Stuart, afterwards
Cardinal of York) is come to Dunkirk, where it is said there are forty transports. The rebels,
it is said, are very advantageously encamped between two rivers, and are fortifying their camp."

Another hurried letter says.

"An express arrives to-day, (Dec. 8th,) while his Majesty was at chapel, which brought an account
of the rebels being close to Derby, and that the Duke of Cumberland was at Meredan, four miles
beyond Coventry observing their motions."

Another of the same date, six o'-clock at night, says, "The Tower guns have not fired to-day.
A letter has been received, stating that the rebels had retreated towards Ashbourne."

Nothing can give a stronger example of the changes which may take place in a country, than
the different state of preparation for an invader, exhibited by England in 1745, and in little
more than half a century after. On the threat of Napoleon's invasion, England exhibited an
armed force of little less than a million, which would have been quadrupled in case of an actual
descent. In 1745, the alarm was extravagant, and almost burlesque. The Pretender, with but
a few thousand men--brave undoubtedly, but almost wholly unprovided for a campaign--marched
into the heart of England, and reached within a hundred and thirty miles of the capital. But
the enterprise was then felt to be wholly beyond his means. A powerful force under the Duke
of Cumberland was already thrown between him and London. What was more ominous still, no man
of English rank had joined him, London was firm, the Protestant feeling of the nation, though
slowly excited, was beginning to be roused, by its recollection of the bigotry of James, and
in England, this feeling will always be ultimately victorious. Even if Charles Edward had arrived
in London, and seized the throne, he would have only had to commence a civil war against the
nation. His retreat to the north saved England from this great calamity, and probably saved
himself, and his adherents in both countries, from a more summary fate than that which drove
his miserable and bigoted father from the throne.

One of the chief contributors to this correspondence is George James Williams, familiarly styled
Gilly Williams; a man of high life, uncle by marriage to the minister Lord North, and lucky
in the possession of an opulent office--that of receiver-general of the excise. He, with George
Selwyn and Dick Edgecumbe, who met at Strawberry Hill at certain seasons, formed what Walpole
termed his out-of-town party. Life seems to have glided smoothly with him, for he lived till
1785, dying at the ripe age of eighty-six.

He thus begins:--

"Dear George--I congratulate you on the near approach of Parliament, and figure you before
a glass at your rehearsals. I must intimate to you not to forget to begin closing your periods
with a significant stroke of the breast, and recommend Mr Barry as a pattern, (the actor.)

"You must observe, in letters from the country, every sentence begins with being either sorry
or glad. Apropos, I am glad to hear B. Bertie (son of the Duke of Ancaster) is returned from
Scarborough, having laid in such a stock of health and spirits by the waters, as to dedicate
the rest of his days altogether to wine."

In another letter he says--"I had almost forgot to tell you, that I rode near ten miles on
my way home with the ordinary of Gloucester, and have several anecdotes of the late burnings
and hangings, which I reserve for your own private ear. I do not know whether he was sensible
you had a partiality for his profession; but he expressed the greatest regard for you, and
I am sure you may command his services."

Gilly writes from Crome, Lord Coventry's seat in Worcestershire--

"Our life here for a while would not displease you, for we eat and drink well, and the Earl
(Coventry) holds a faro-bank every night to us, which we have as yet plundered considerably.

"I want to know where to find you, and how long you stay at your mansion-house; for it would
not be pleasant to ride so far only to see squinting Jenny and the gardener at the end of my
journey. I suppose we shall see you here, where you will find the Countess of Coventry in high
spirits and in great beauty."

We now come to a brief mention of two women, the most remarkable of their day for popular admiration,
if not for finish and fashion--the Gunnings, afterwards Lady Coventry and the Duchess of Hamilton.
They were the daughters of an Irish country gentleman, John Gunning, of Castle Coote in Ireland.
On their first appearance at court in England, the elder was in her nineteenth, and the second
in her eighteenth year. They appear to have excited a most unprecedented sensation in London.
And this effect lasted; for, two months after, Walpole writes--"I shall tell you a new story
of the Gunnings, who make more noise than any of their predecessors since the days of Helen.

To the astonishment, and perhaps to the envy, of the fashionable world, those two unportioned
young women made the most splendid matches of the season. The Duke of Hamilton fell in love
with the younger at a masquerade, and made proposals to her. The marriage was to take place
within some months; but his passion was so vehement, that in two nights after he insisted on
marrying her at the moment. Walpole tells us that he sent for a clergyman, who however refused
to marry them without license or ring. At this period marriages were frequently performed in
a very unceremonious and unbecoming manner. From the laxity of the law, they were performed
at all hours, frequently in private houses, and sometimes even in jails, by pretended clergymen.
The law, however, was subsequently and properly reformed. The duke and duchess are said to
have been married with a curtain-ring, at half-past twelve-at night, at May Fair Chapel. This
precipitated the marriage of Lord Coventry, a personage of a grave stamp, but who had long
paid attention to the elder sister Maria. He married her about three weeks after. Except that
we are accustomed to hear of the frenzy which seizes people in the name of fashion, we should
scarcely believe the effect which those two women, handsome as they were, continued to produce.
On the Duchess of Hamilton's presentation at Court on her marriage, the crowd was immense;
and so great was the curiosity, that the courtly multitude got on the chairs and tables to
look at her. Mobs gathered round their doors to see them get into their chairs; people crowded
early to the theatres when they heard they were to be there. Lady Coventry's shoemaker is said
to have made a fortune by selling patterns of her shoe; and on the duchess's going to Scotland,
several hundred people walked about all night round the inn where she slept, on the Yorkshire
road, that they might have a view of her as she went off next morning.

Yet they appear to have been strangely neglected in their education; good-humoured and good-natured
undoubtedly, but little better than hoydens after all. Lord Down met Lord and Lady Coventry
at Calais, and offered to send her ladyship a tent-bed, for fear of bugs at the inn. "Oh dear!"
said she, "I had rather be bit to death than lie one night from my dear Cov."

She is, however, memorable for one étourderie, which amused the world greatly. Old George II.,
conversing with her on the dulness of the season, expressed a regret that there had been no
masquerades during the year, the handsome rustic answered him, that she had seen sights enough,
and the only one she wanted to see now was--"a coronation." The king, however, had the good
sense to laugh, and repeated it good-humouredly to his circle at supper.

Lady Coventry died a few years after of consumption, at the age of twenty-seven. It was said
that her death was hastened by the habit of using white lead as a paint, the fashionable custom
of the time. The Duke of Hamilton had died two years before, in 1758, and the duchess became
subsequently the wife of Colonel John Campbell, afterwards Duke of Argyle. The narrative observes
the remarkable circumstance, that the untitled daughter of an Irish commoner should have been
the wife of two dukes and the mother of four. By her first husband she was the mother of James,
seventh duke, and of Douglas, eighth duke, of Hamilton; and by her second husband, of William,
sixth duke, and of Henry, seventh duke, of Argyle. The duchess, though at the time of Lady
Coventry's illness supposed to be in a consumption, survived for thirty years, dying in 1790.

Mason the poet commemorated Lady Coventry's death in a long elegy, which had some repute in
those days, when even Hayley was called a poet. They are dawdling and dulcified to a deplorable
degree.

  "Yes, Coventry is dead; attend the strain,
  Daughters of Albion, ye that, light as air,
  So oft have trips in her fantastic train,
  With hearts as gay, and faces half as fair;
  For she was fair beyond your highest bloom;
  This envy owns, since now her bloom is fled.
  &c. &c. &c.

We have then a sketch of a man of considerable celebrity in his day, Lord Sandwich. Educated
at Eton and Cambridge; on leaving college, he made the then unusual exertion of a voyage round
the Mediterranean, of which a volume was published by his chaplain on his return. Shortly after,
taking his seat in the House of Lords, he came into ministerial employment as a Lord of the
Admiralty. In 1746, he was appointed minister to the States General. And from that period,
for nearly thirty years, he was employed in high public offices; was twice an ambassador, three
times first Lord of the Admiralty, and twice Secretary of State. Lord Sandwich's personal character
was at least accused of so much profligacy, that, if the charges be true, we cannot comprehend
how he was suffered to retain employments of such importance for so many years. Wilkes, who
had known him intimately, describes him, in his letters to the electors of Aylesbury, as "the
most abandoned man of the age." He is even said not to have been a man of business; yet the
Admiralty was a place which can scarcely be managed by an idler, and the Secretaryship of State,
in this country, can never be a sinecure. He had certainly one quality which is remarkable
for conciliation, and without which no minister, let his talents be what they may, has ever
been personally popular; he was a man of great affability, and of shrewd wit. The latter was
exhibited, in peculiarly cutting style, to Mr Eden, afterwards Lord Auckland. Eden, sagacious
in his generation, had suddenly ratted to Pitt, adding, however, the monstrous absurdity of
sending a circular to his colleagues by way of justification. Obviously, nothing could be more
silly than an attempt of this order, which could only add their contempt for his understanding
to their contempt for his conduct. Lord Sandwich's answer was in the most cutting spirit of
scorn:--

"Sir,--Your letter is now before me, and in a few minutes will be behind me."

An unhappy circumstance brought Lord Sandwich with painful prominence before the world. A Miss
Ray, a person of some attraction, had unfortunately lived under his protection for several
years. It happened, however, that a young officer on the recruiting service, who had dined
once or twice at Lord Sandwich's house in the country, thought proper to pay her some marked
attentions, which, after allowing them, as it appears, to proceed to some extent, she suddenly
declined. On this the officer, whose name was Hackman, and who was evidently of a fantastic
and violent temperament, rushed from England in a state of desperation, flew over to Ireland,
threw up his commission, and took orders in the church. But instead of adopting the quietude
which would have been suitable for his new profession, the clerical robes seem to have made
him more intractable than the military uniform. After some months of rambling and romance in
Ireland, he rushed over to England again, resolving to conquer or die at her feet; but the
lady still rejected him, and, being alarmed at his violence, threatened to appeal to Lord Sandwich.
There are many circumstances in the conduct of this unfortunate man, amounting to that perversion
of common sense which, in our times, is fashionably and foolishly almost sanctioned as monomania.
But nothing can be clearer than the fact, that the most unjustifiable, dangerous, and criminal
passion, may be pampered, until it obtains possession of the whole mind, and leads to the perpetration
of the most atrocious offences against society. The modern absurdity is, to look, in the violence
of the passion for the excuse of the crime; instead of punishing the crime for the violence
of the passion. We might as well say, that the violences of a drunkard were more innocent the
more furiously he was intoxicated; the whole being a direct encouragement to excessive guilt.
The popular feeling of justice in the last century, however, was different; robbers and murderers
were put to death as they deserved, and society was relieved without burlesquing the common
understandings of man. Mr Hackman was a murderer, however he might be a monomaniac, and he
was eventually hanged as he deserved. The trial, which took place in April 1779, excited the
most extraordinary public curiosity. By the statement of the witnesses, it appeared that a
Mr Macnamara, being in the lobby of Covent Garden Theatre when the audience were coming away,
and seeing Miss Ray making her way with some difficulty through the crowd to her carriage,
he went forward with Irish gallantry to offer her his arm, which she accepted; and as they
reached the door of the carriage, a pistol was fired close to them, when Miss Ray clapped her
hand to her forehead and fell, when instantly another pistol-report followed. He thought that
she had fainted away through fright; but when he raised her up, he found that she was wounded,
and assisted the people in carrying her into the Shakspeare Tavern; and on Hackman's being
seized, and being asked what could possess him to be guilty of such a deed, his only answer
was to give his name, and say, "It is not a proper place to ask such questions." It appeared
in evidence, that Hackman had been waiting some time for Miss Ray's coming out of the theatre;
that he followed her to the carriage door, and pulling out two pistols, fired one at the unfortunate
woman, the ball of which went through her brain, and the other at himself, crying out as he
fell, "Kill me--kill me!"

Of course, after evidence like this, there could be no defence, and none as attempted. Hackman
evidently wished to have died by his own hand; but having failed there, his purpose was to
perish by the law, and plead guilty. However, on being brought to trial, he said that he now
pleaded not guilty, that he might avoid the appearance of contemning death--an appearance not
suitable to his present condition; that, on second thoughts, he had considered the plea of
guilty as rendering him accessory to a second peril of his life; and that he thought that he
could pay his debt more effectually to the justice of the country by suffering his offences
to be proved by evidence, and submitting to the forms of a regular trial. This, though it was
penitence too late, was at least decorous language. His whole conduct on the trial showed that,
intemperate as his passions were, he possessed abilities and feelings worthy of a wiser career,
and a less unhappy termination. Part of his speech was even affecting.

"I stand here this day," he said, "the most wretched of human beings, and confess myself criminal
in a high degree; yet while I acknowledge, with shame and repentance, that my determination
against my own life was formal and complete, I protest, with that regard which becomes my situation,
that the will to destroy her who was ever dearer to me than life, was never mine till a momentary
frenzy overpowered me, and induced me to commit the deed I deplore. Before this dreadful act,
I trust, nothing will be found in the tenor of my life which the common charity of mankind
will not excuse. I have no wish to avoid the punishment which the laws of my country appoint
for my crime; but being already too unhappy to feel a punishment in death, or a satisfaction
in life, I submit myself with penitence and patience to the disposal and judgment of Almighty
God, and to the consequences of this enquiry into my conduct and intentions."

After a few minutes' consultation, the jury returned a verdict of guilty, and he was executed
two days after. It is surprising how strong an interest was felt on this subject by persons
of every condition; by the populace, who loved excitement from whatever quarter it may come;
by the middle order, to whom the romance of the early part of the transaction and the melancholy
catastrophe were subjects of natural impression; and by the nobility, to whom the character
of Miss Ray and the habits of Lord Sandwich were equally known.

The Earl of Carlisle thus writes to Selwyn, beginning with a sort of customary allusion to
Selwyn's extraordinary fondness for those displays:--

"Hackman, Miss Ray's murderer, is hanged. I attended his execution in order to give you an
account of his behaviour, and from no curiosity of my own. I am this moment returned from it.
Every one enquired after you. You have friends every where. The poor man behaved with great
fortitude; no appearances of fear were to be perceived, but very evident signs of contrition
and repentance."

A novel, of some pathos and considerable popularity, was founded on this unhappy transaction,
and "The Letters of Mr Hackman and Miss Ray" long flourished in the circulating libraries.
But the groundwork was vulgar, mean, and vicious, after all; and, divested of that colouring
which imagination may throw on any event, was degrading and criminal in all its circumstances.
The shame of the wretched woman herself, living in a state of open criminality from year to
year; the grossness of Hackman in his proposal to make this abandoned woman his wife; the strong
probability that his object might have been the not uncommon, though infinitely vile one, of
obtaining Lord Sandwich's patronage, by relieving him of a connexion of which that notorious
profligate, after nine years, might be weary--all characterise the earlier portion of their
intercourse as destitute of all pretence to honourable feelings. The catastrophe is merely
the work of an assassin. If there may be some slight allowance for overwhelming passion, for
suddenly excited jealousy, or for remediless despair, yet those impulses act only to the extent
of inflicting injury on ourselves. No love ever seeks the death of its object. It is then mere
ruffianism, brute cruelty, savage fury; and even this becomes more the act of a ruffian, when
the determination to destroy is formed in cold blood. Hackman carried two loaded pistols with
him to the theatre. What other man carried loaded pistols there? and what could be his purpose
but the one which he effected, to fire them both, one at the wretched woman, and the other
at himself? The clear case is, that he was neither more nor less than a furious villain, resolved
to have the life of a profligate milliner's apprentice, who preferred Lord Sandwich's house
and carriage, to Mr Hackman's hovel and going on foot. We shall find that all similar acts
originate in similar motives--lucre, licentiousness, and rage--the three stimulants of the
highwayman, the debauchee, and the ruffian; with only the distinction, that, in the case of
those who murder when they cannot possess, the three criminalities are combined.

Even with the execution of the criminal, the excitement did not cease. The papers of the day
tell us, that when the body was conveyed to the surgeon's hall, so great a crowd was assembled,
and the efforts to obtain entrance were so violent, that caps, gowns, wigs, were torn and cast
away in all directions. Old and young, men, women, and children, were trampled in the multitude.
In the afternoon, the crowd diminished, and several persons of the better order made their
way in, but with not a less vexatious result; for, on reaching the staircase leading to the
theatre, they found themselves saluted with a shower from some engine worked under the staircase.
This was rather a rough mode of tranquillizing public excitement, but seems to have been effectual.
It was probably a trick of some of the young surgeons, and excited great indignation at the
time. Hackman was but four-and-twenty, and rather a striking figure.

The letters to which we have alluded, entitled "Love and Madness," attracted attention in higher
quarters, and even perplexed the fastidiousness of Walpole himself.

After having thus puzzled the dilettanti, it transpired that it was written by Sir Herbert
Croft, Bart.

Another singular character, who, in connexion with one still more singular, remarkably occupied
the ear and tongue of the beau monde of his day, is introduced in these volumes. This was Augustus
John, Earl of Bristol, third son of John, Lord Hervey, by the beautiful Mary Lepel. He entered
the sea service at an early age, and prospered as the sons of men of rank prospered in those
days, being made a post-captain in 1747, when he was but three and twenty years old. Promotion
was heaped upon him, and he was rapidly advanced to the rank of vice-admiral and colonel of
marines. He was, however, said to be a brave and skilful officer. More good fortune was in
store for him; he was placed in the king's household, was a member of Parliament, was appointed
one of the Lords of the Admiralty, and finally rounded the circle of his honours by succeeding
to the earldom of Bristol. The history of his wife is a continued adventure. Miss Chudleigh,
maid of honour to the Princess of Wales, had, immediately on her appearance at court, become
the observed of all observers. She was regarded as one of the most beautiful women of her time,
was remarkably quick and witty in her conversation, of a most capricious temper and a most
fantastic imagination--all qualities which naturally rendered her a topic in every circle of
the country. The circumstances of her marriage rendered her if possible, still more a topic.
On a visit at the house of a relation, she met Lord Bristol, then but a lieutenant in the navy,
and plain Mr Hervey, and disregarding all the formalities of high life, they were privately
married at Lainston, in Northamptonshire. They were, however, separated the very next day,
the lady declaring her determination never to see her husband's face again. This, of course,
produced an ample fund of conversation of every kind; but the lady returned to court, and the
gentleman returned to his ship, and went to sea. However, they met again, and the result was,
she became a mother. From her determination to keep her marriage secret, she retired for her
accouchement to a secluded spot in Chelsea, where her child was born, and where it soon after died.

It may easily be supposed, that the sudden disappearance of so conspicuous a person from the
most conspicuous society, must have given rise to rumours and ridicule of every kind. She returned
to court nevertheless, and constantly denying her marriage, fought it out with the effrontery
which is so easily forgiven, in fashionable life, to youth, wit, and beauty.

Yet she could not quite escape the flying shafts of wit herself. One day after her return,
meeting the memorable Lord Chesterfield--"Think, my lord," said she, with an air of indignation,
"to what lengths the scandalous chronicle will go, when it absolutely says that I have had
twins." "My dear," said Lord Chesterfield, "I make it a rule never to believe above half what
the world says."

She now received the attentions of many suitors, extraordinary as the circumstance may be,
when the mystery of her own conduct and the surmises of the public are considered; and, to
make assurance doubly sure, she determined to extinguish all proof of her hasty marriage. Ascertaining
that the clergyman who had married her was dead, she went to Lainston church, and contrived
to carry away the entry of her marriage from the register. Some time after this, Miss Chudleigh
(for she never would take her husband's name) married the Duke of Kingston. It was strongly
asserted, though the circumstance is so dishonourable that it can scarcely be believed, that
the silence of the real husband was purchased by the advance of a large sum of money from the
pretended one. The marriage remained undisturbed until the death of the duke. She then came
into possession of his very large disposable property, and traveled in great pomp to Rome;
but the duke's nephew and heir, having his suspicious of the fact excited, commenced proceedings
against the duchess for bigamy. She was tried before her peers in Westminster hall, and found
guilty of the offence, in April 1776; but by claiming the privilege of peerage, she was discharged
on payment of the usual fees.

It is scarcely possible to believe that a man of the rank and profession of Lord Bristol, could
have been base enough to connive at his wife's marriage with the Duke of Kingston. But there
can be no question, that in the prevalent opinion of the time, he had even taken a large sum
of money for the purpose. In one of Walpole's letters, subsequently to the trial, he says,
"if the Pope expects his duchess back, he must create her one, for her peers have reduced her
to a countess. Her folly and her obstinacy here appear in the full vigour, at least her faith
in the ecclesiastical court, trusting to the infallibility of which she provoked this trial
in the face of every sort of detection. The living witness of the first marriage, a register
of it fabricated long after by herself, the widow of the clergyman who married her, many confidants
to whom she had entrusted the secret, and even Hawkins, the surgeon, privy to the birth of
the child, appeared against her. The Lords were tender, and would not probe the earl's collusion;
but the ecclesiastical court, who so readily accepted their juggle, and sanctified the second
match, were brought to shame--they care not if no reformation follows. The duchess, who could
produce nothing else in her favour, tried the powers of oratory, and made a long oration, in
which she cited the protection of her late mistress, the Princess of Wales. Her counsel would
have curtailed this harangue; but she told them they might be good lawyers, but did not understand
speaking to the passions. She concluded her rhetoric with a fit, and retired with rage when
convicted of the bigamy."

The charge to which Walpole alludes, was, that the earl had given her a bond for L.30,000 not
to molest her; but as there was no proof, this gross charge certainly has no right to be implicitly
received. Still it is unaccountable why he should have suffered her to have married the Duke
of Kingston without any known remonstrance, and why he should have allowed her to retain the
title of the duke's widow until the rightful heir instituted the proceedings. The earl died
in 1779, within three years from the trial.

Among the characters which pass through this magic-lantern, is Topham Beauclerk, so frequently
mentioned, and mentioned with praise, in Boswell's Johnson. He seems to have been a man of
great elegance of manner, and peculiarity of that happy talent of conversation whose wit seems
to be spontaneous, and whose anecdotes, however recherché, seem to flow from the subject. "Every
thing," remarked Johnson, "comes from Beauclerk so easily, that it appears to me that I labour
when I say a good thing."

Beauclerk was the only son of Lord Sydney Beauclerk, a son of Charles, first Duke of St Albans.
He was educated at Trinity College, Oxford, and, from the moment of his entering fashionable
life, was remarked for the elegance of manner, and the liveliness of conversation, which continued
to be his distinctions to the close of his career. Unfortunately, the fashion of the time not
only allowed, but seems to have almost required, an irregularity of life which would tarnish
the character of any man in our more decorous day. His unfortunate intercourse with Viscountess
Bolingbroke, better known by her subsequent name of Lady Diana Beauclerk, produced a divorce,
and in two days after a marriage. She was the eldest daughter of Charles, the second Duke of
Marlborough, and was in early life as distinguished for her beauty, as in later years she was
for her wit.

Johnson in his old age became acquainted with Topham Beauclerk, through their common friend,
Langton, and even the sage and moralist acknowledged the captivation of his manners. "What
a coalition!" said Garrick, when he heard of their acquaintance, "I shall have my old friend
to bail out of the roundhouse." But whatever might be the elegance of his companion's laxity,
Johnson did not hesitate to rebuke him. At another tine, applying to him that line of Pope's,
slightly altered, he said--

  'Thy love of folly, and thy scorn of fools;'

everything you do shows the one, and every thing you say the other."

Another rather less intelligible rebuke occurred in his saying, "Thy body is all vice and thy
mind all virtue." As the actions of the body proceed from the mind, it is difficult to conceive
how the one can be impure without the other. At least Beauclerk did not appear to relish the
distinction, and he was angry at the phrase. However, Johnson's attempt to appease him was
a curious specimen of his magniloquence.

Topham Beauclerk had two daughters by Lady Diana, one of whom became Lady Pembroke. He died
at his house in Great Russell Street, then a place of fashion, in 1780, in his 41st year.

Selwyn's seat, Matson, in Gloucestershire, received some pretty historical reminiscences. One
of Walpole's letters to Bentley, thus speaks of a visit to his friend's villa in the autumn
of 1753. The fact however being, that both the princes, Charles and James, who were then mere
boys, remained at Matson--a circumstance frequently mentioned to Selwyn's grandfather by James
II., observing:--'My brother and I were generally shut up in a chamber on the second floor
during the day, where you will find that we have left the marks of our confinement inscribed
with our knives on the ledges of all the windows."'

The house must have been quite a treasure to Walpole, for he found in it a good picture of
the famous Earl of Leicester, which he had given to Sir Francis Walsingham; and what makes
it very curious, Walpole observes his age is marked on it fifty-four, in 1752.

It is, however, by no means clear, that this was a "counterfeit association," though Walpole
abandons his usual scepticism on all disputable points with such facility. The "association"
was a plot to bring back that miserable blockhead and bigot, James II., said to be signed by
Marlborough, the Bishop of Rochester, Lords Salisbury, Cornberry, and Sir Basil Firebrace.
On the information of one Young, the draft of the plot was found in a flower-pot in the Bishop's
house at Bromley. But fortunately the days of royal terror had passed by. The crown was strong
enough to treat conspiracy with contempt, and the affair was suffered to fall into oblivion.
Yet it is now so notorious that many of the highest persons in the state were tampering with
the exiled family, that the plot is rendered sufficiently probable. There seems to have been
some political infatuation connected with the name of the Stuarts. Though, excepting the bravery
of Charles I. and the pleasantry of Charles II., they all were evidently the dullest, most
mulish, and most repulsive of mankind; yet many brave men periled their lives to restore them,
and many men of great distinction hazarded their safety to correspond with them. The "Stuart
Correspondence" was less a breach of loyalty than a libel on the national understanding.

On the whole, these volumes are interesting, in many parts--very much so. The editor has evidently
done his best to illustrate and explain. But can he not discover any remnant of the letters
of Selwyn himself? he might then remove the objection to his title, and please all readers
together.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEWS FROM AN EXILED CONTRIBUTOR.

  MELBOURNE, PORT PHILIP,
  NEW SOUTH WALES, July 1, 1843.

  BELOVED AND REV. CHRISTOPHER,

You have been pleased many times, in very decided terms, to express your ever-to-be-respected
conviction that I should eventually come to something; haply to the woolsack--possibly to the
gallows; from which prophetic sentiment, I have naturally inferred that my genius was rare,
and that your eagle eye had discovered it.

Before my letter reaches your generous shores, twelve months will have elapsed, most reverend
Christopher, since we parted in the Hibernian city. Then we were as near to one another as
firmly grasped hands could render us; now sixteen thousand miles effectually divide us; and
whilst I sit silently wishing you ages of health and mortal happiness, the mercury of my thermometer
stands lazily at freezing point, whereas your own sprightly quicksilver rushes up to 92. All
things tell me of our separation. We sailed, as you will find by referring to your pocket-book--for
you made a memorandum at the time--on the 14th day of November last from Cork; sighted Madeira--about
thirty miles abreast--in eight days, and out of sight of it on the 22d. A fine fair wind was
sent to us, and we crossed the Line, all well, on the 14th of December; then steering pretty
far to westward, we luckily caught the trade-wind, and rounded the Cape in a good gale on the
15th of January. And here it came on to blow right earnestly; but we kept the gale for about
eight days on our larboard quarter, and we scudded on our course at a fearful rate. Our mizen
mast was carried away--both our mainsails split--and we smashed a few spars, and lost some
running gear; nothing more serious happened, save the loss of as fine a young fellow as ever
trode shoe-leather--a seaman. He was caught sharply by one of the ropes that gave way, and
it carried him overboard like a feather. We saw him drop--the sea was running mountains high--we
could render him no assistance; and he perished under our very eyes. The wind, fortunately
for us, continued on either quarter of our ship; and it is a remarkable fact, and deserving
of notice, that, during the whole of our voyage, we had occasion only to put the ship about
TWICE. We cast anchor in Hobson's Bay, Port Philip on the morning of the 21st of February,
having made our voyage in the short space of ninety-nine days, and the land within a quarter
of an hour of the captain's reckoning. The events of the passage may be given paucis verbis.
We had nine accouchements in the steerage amongst the emigrants, some of them premature from
violent sea-sickness, and seven deaths--all children.

Our deaths, as I have said, were confined to the children. The adults kept free from fever;
an astonishing fact, when the confinement and closeness of a steerage birth is taken into account.
The voyage was agreeable. We were good friends in the cabin. The captain, a prudent, temperate
man, took his three glasses of grog per diem, and no more; the first at noon, the second at
dinner, the third and last at "turn-in." Your obedient servant, ever mindful of your strict
injunctions, and of your eloquent discourse on sobriety and self-denial, and believing that
he could not do better than regulate his watch according to the captain's chronometer, followed
precisely the same rule. We maintained a glorious state of health after the first week; and
if all future voyagers would do the same, let them neither eat nor drink aboard ship to the
full extent of their appetites. This is simple advice, but I reckon it the first great secret
which my nomadic experience enables me to put down for the benefit of my fellow-creatures;
especially on board of a ship, leave off with an appetite. We passed our time--not having the
fear of the Ancient Mariner before our eyes--in shooting albatrosses, Cape pigeons, and the
like; in picking up a porpoise, a bonnitta, or a dolphin. Books, backgammon, and whist, filled
up the measure of the day. Mem.--had we been favoured with less wind, we should have got more
porpoises. We speared many--first-raters; but the speed at which we cut along, prevented our
securing them.

But we have cast anchor. The harbour of Hobson's Bay is a splendid inlet of the sea. The bay
is very narrow at the entrance, but the moment you get past the Heads, it extends to a breadth
of eight or ten miles, and to a length of twenty-two miles, from the mouth to the anchoring
place. The land around the bay is flat and sandy, and covered with wood almost to the water's
edge. The tree there resembles our common mountain fir: it is exactly like it in the bark;
but it is called by the settlers, the she-oak. I reckon it to be the beef-tree, for it has
its appearance when cut up, is hard, and takes a beautiful polish. Inland, this wood grows
to a considerable height and thickness; but the principal part of the interior is thickly covered
with the various species of the gum and peppermint trees, many of them of a singularly large
growth: but more of the interior anon. Immediately opposite to the anchorage ground, there
is a pretty little town called Williamstown, in which the water-police magistrate, an old seafaring
gentleman, Captain ----, has his residence. The gallant captain has enough to do with the jolly
tars, who invariably attempt to cut and run as soon as they have got here. A sailor misconducting
himself on the voyage, has at least two months' reflection in the jail of Williamstown, commencing
immediately upon his arrival. The news of this prison establishment will probably reach England
before my letter. Should it be spoken of in your presence, say that it has been found absolutely
necessary for the protection of shipmasters, and that an act was passed accordingly for its
erection. Gordon law, so called after the first magistrate, is proverbial, and very summary.
Every fellow found drunk gets two hours in the stocks, and he becomes sober there much sooner
than if he had been simply fined five shillings.

The town of Melbourne is beautifully situated on the face of a hill, in the hollow of which
runs the noble river called the Yarra-Yarra, words which signify in the native language, "flowing
constantly." It is distinguished by its title from the large majority of rivers, which are
nearly still, and which, after extending only for a mile or two, form at length a species of
swamp. Such rivers are generally styled lagoons. The Yarra-Yarra is navigable up to the town
of Melbourne for ships of a large size--say 400 tons; but the seven miles of distance being
circuitous, and the banks of sand at the mouth of the river occasionally shifting, the larger
class of ships generally remain at the anchorage ground in the bay, and discharge by common
lighters. At the present moment, from twenty to thirty very large ships are riding in the bay.
A pretty little steamer plies three times a-day between the towns of Melbourne and Williamstown--price
five shillings, up and down. Another steamer, "The Sea Horse," plies between Melbourne and
Sydney once a fortnight; the passage is made in three days, and the fares £12 for cabin, £6
for steerage. The communication is a vast accommodation to this district. The steamer is in
private hands, and did not answer at first; she now carries the mail, and promises to turn
out a profitable spec. The coast is very dangerous, and at every season of the year liable
to very violent gales. Even in the bay the squalls are sudden, violent, and dangerous, and
many lives are lost for want of proper precaution and care, on board of small boats. Only yesterday,
my friend, Mr G----, and three men, were out in a pleasure boat; in five minutes they were
swept off to leeward, the boat was upset, and they were all drowned.

Melbourne is perhaps the most surprising place in her Majesty's dominions. Nothing, in the
history of colonization, approaches her as regards the rapidity of advancement and extent.
Six years ago there were not twenty British subjects on the spot, and at the present hour,
Melbourne and its suburbs boast of a population of ten thousand souls. There are already built
four splendid edifices for public worship--Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Wesleyans, and Independents,
are provided for--and there is in addition a very large Roman Catholic chapel in the course
of erection. There are three banks all doing excellently well--"The Australasian," "The Union
Bank of Australia," and "Port Philip's Bank"--and there is yet a good field for another, under
prudent management. The rate of discount is £10 per cent; and the interest given on deposit
accounts £7 per cent. The common rate of interest, given with good mortgage security, is £20
per cent; and in some instances, where a little risk is taken, £25 and £30. Bills past due
at the bank, are charged £12 per cent. A court of law (by act of Council) allows £8 per cent
on all bills sued upon, with a discretionary power of extending the rate to £12 per cent, to
cover any damage or loss sustained. There are two Club houses, a Royal Exchange, and some very
large buildings for stores. A spacious new jail is building in a most commodious situation,
and a public court house will soon follow; the one existing being but small and temporary.
The new customhouse, which has been completed since my arrival is a fine building, and forms
one side of the Market Square. In front of this, and about four hundred yards distant, stands
the wharf. Melbourne rejoices likewise in its theatre, or, as it is called, "pavilion," which
place of amusement, however, the governor does not think proper to license. His refusal is,
I believe, very properly founded upon the questionable condition of the morals of the great
body of the population. Two hours at the police-office any morning, afford a stranger a tolerably
clear insight into this subject generally, and acquaint him particularly with the over-night
deportment of the Melbournese. The police magistrate holds any thing but a sinecure. We have
three newspapers in Melbourne, namely, The Patriot, The Herald, and Gazette, each published
twice a-week; the first on Monday and Thursday, the second on Tuesday and Friday, the third
on Wednesday and Saturday; so that we have a newspaper every day. The advertisements are numerous
and varied in matter. I have heard upon good authority that the proprietor of any one of these
journals draws at least £4000 to £5000 per annum from the profits of them. It is not difficult
to account for these enormous gains. Every thing here is sold by auction, and the advertisements
are in consequence more numerous than they would otherwise be. An auctioneer alone, in good
business, will pay each of the papers about £1000 per annum for printing and advertising his
numerous sales. We have a supreme court with a suitable establishment of officers. John Walpole
Willis, Esq., was resident judge. He is now amongst you, for, by the slip which carries this
letter, he starts for England, circumstances having occurred that render it necessary for him
to vindicate in person a character which requires no vindication. The people of Melbourne part
with the upright and learned judge with infinite regret, softened only by the certain hope
they entertain of his immediate return. The resident judge holds civil courts as in England
during the several terms, and criminal courts of general jail-delivery every month. The pleadings
are conducted by barristers at law, who have been duly admitted in England, Ireland, Scotland,
or Isle of Man. The agents or attorneys and solicitors are those duly admitted at Sydney, at
courts of Westminster in England, High Courts in Ireland, and writers to her Majesty's Signet
in Scotland. Others who may have served a regular apprenticeship of not less than five years
to any such agent, after undergoing a necessary examination, are likewise suffered to practise
as attorneys. The supreme court has been established about twelve months. Before that time
all suits were carried on in Sydney. Conveyances of land may be prepared by any one, and, before
professional men appeared amongst the settlers, there were some rare specimens of deeds in
this branch of English law. Now they are of course better--and those to which I have adverted
have fortunately paved the way for endless litigation. We have a sprinkling of military and
mounted police; two very large steam mills for grinding flour and sawing timber; and in a word,
all the concomitants of a large and flourishing city. I should, however, except the public
streets. These are still unpaved, and consequently in wet weather, in some places, impassable,
and in dry weather insufferably dusty. I have spoken of the sudden squalls which arise often
in the Bay. Whilst one of these prevails, clouds of dust are carried from the streets so dense
that you cannot see half a yard before you. If you are exposed to the whirlwind, and chance
to wear clothes of a dark colour, you issue from it with the appearance of a man who has been
confined in a mill for a week. A house of furniture well cleaned in the morning, looks at dinner-time
as if it had been coated with dirt for a twelvemonth. Should there be a sudden mortality among
the ladies of Port Philip, it will undoubtedly be occasioned by this warfare with the dirt,
which is carried forward day after day without any prospect of retreat on either side.

