BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

  Set up and electrotyped.

    "Allons! the road is before us!
    It is safe--I have tried it--my own feet
        have tried it well--be not detained."
                                --WALT WHITMAN.

  CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                        PAGE

  I. THE WAYS OF THE WIND                          1

  II. THE BOOK OF THE GARDEN, YOU, AND I           7

  III. CONCERNING HARDY PLANTS                    29

  IV. THEIR GARDEN VACATION                       48

  V. ANNUALS--WORTHY AND UNWORTHY                 70

  VI. THEIR FORTUNATE ESCAPE                      92

  VII. A SIMPLE ROSE GARDEN                      117

  VIII. A MIDNIGHT ADVENTURE                     155

  IX. FERNS, FENCES, AND WHITE BIRCHES           183

  X. FRANKNESS--GARDENING AND OTHERWISE          202

     LIST OF FLOWER COMBINATIONS FOR THE TABLE
     FROM BARBARA'S Garden Boke                230

  XI. A SEASIDE GARDEN                           233

  XII. THE TRANSPLANTING OF EVERGREENS           246

  XIII. LILIES AND THEIR WHIMS                   262

  XIV. FRAGRANT FLOWERS AND LEAVES               281

  XV. THE PINK FAMILY OUTDOORS                   305

  XVI. THE FRAME OF THE PICTURE                  320

  XVII. THE INS AND OUTS OF THE MATTER           336

  XVIII. THE VALUE OF WHITE FLOWERS              352

  XIX. PANDORA'S CHEST                           365

  XX. EPILOGUE                                   374

APPENDIX

  FOR THE HARDY SEED BED                         375

  SOME WORTHY ANNUALS                            387

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

  A SEASIDE GARDEN (see p. 243)      Frontispiece

  "THE MAGNOLIAS BELOW AT THE ROAD-BEND"           8

  ENGLISH LARKSPUR SEVEN FEET HIGH                32

  FRAXINELLA--GERMAN IRIS AND CANDY-TUFT          44

  LONGFELLOW'S GARDEN                             81

  THE SUMMER GARDEN--VERBENAS                     86

  ASTERS                                          90

  THE PICTORIAL VALUE OF EVERGREENS              102

  "MY ROSES ARE SCATTERED HERE, THERE,
     AND EVERYWHERE"                             119

  MADAME PLANTIER AT VAN CORTLAND MANOR          128

  A CONVENIENT ROSE-BED                          138

  "THE LAST OF THE OLD ORCHARD"                  156

  THE SCREEN OF WHITE BIRCHES                    166

  "AN ENDLESS SHELTER FOR EVERY SORT
     OF WILD THING"                              184

  SPECIOSUM LILIES IN THE SHADE                  270

  THE POET'S NARCISSUS                           278

  A BED OF JAPAN PINKS                           296

  SINGLE AND DOUBLE PINKS                        314

  "THE SILVER MAPLE BY THE LANE GATE"            326

  "A CURTAIN TO THE SIDE PORCH"                  328

  AN IRIS HEDGE                                  358

  DAPHNE CNEORUM                                 360

  A TERRIBLE EXAMPLE                             362

  "THE LOW SNOW-COVERED MEADOW"                  372

  "PUNCH ... HAS A CACHE UNDER THE
     SYRINGA BUSHES"                             374

THE GARDEN, YOU, AND I

I

THE WAYS OF THE WIND

  "Out of the veins of the world comes the blood of me;
  The heart that beats in my side is the heart of the sea;
  The hills have known me of old, and they do not forget;
  Long ago was I friends with the wind; I am friends with it yet."

                                                --GERALD GOULD.

Whenever a piece of the land is to be set apart for a garden, two mighty rulers must be consulted
as to the boundaries. When this earth child is born and flower garnished for the christening,
the same two must be also bidden as sponsors. These rulers are the Sun and the Wind. The sun,
if the matter in hand is once fairly spread before him and put in his charge, is a faithful
guardian, meeting frankness frankly and sending his penetrating and vitalizing messengers through
well-nigh inviolable shade. But of the wind, who shall answer for it or trust it? Do we really
ever learn all of its vagaries and impossible possibilities?

If frankness best suits the sun, diplomacy must be our shield of defence windward, for the
wind is not one but a composite of many moods, and to lure one on, and skilfully but not insultingly
bar out another, is our portion. To shut out the wind of summer, the bearer of vitality, the
uplifter of stifling vapours, the disperser of moulds, would indeed be an error; therefore,
the great art of the planters of a garden is to learn the ways of the wind and to make friends
with it. If the soil is sodden and sour, it may be drained and sweetened; if it is poor, it
may be nourished; but when all this is done, if the garden lies where the winds of winter and
spring in passing swiftly to and fro whet their steel-edged tempers upon it, what avails?

What does it matter if violet or pansy frames are set in a sunny nook, if it be one of the
wind's winter playgrounds, where he drifts the snow deep for his pastime, so that after each
storm of snow or sleet a serious bit of engineering must be undergone before the sashes can
be lifted and the plants saved from dampness; or if the daffodils and tulips lie well bedded
all the winter through, if, when the sun has called them forth, the winds of March blight their
sap-tender foliage? Yet the lands that send the north winds also send us the means to deter
them--the cold-loving evergreens, low growing, high growing, medium, woven dense in warp and
woof, to be windbreaks, also the shrubs of tough, twisted fibre and stubborn thorns lying close
to the earth for windbuffers.

Therefore, before the planting of rose or hardy herbs, bulbs or tenderer flowers, go out, compass
in hand, face the four quarters of heaven, and, considering well, set your windbreaks of sweeping
hemlocks, pines, spruces, not in fortress-like walls barring all the horizon, but in alternate
groups that flank, without appearing to do so heavily, the north and northwest. Even a barberry
hedge on two sides of a garden, wedge point to north, like the wild-goose squadrons of springtime,
will make that spot an oasis in the winter valley of death.

A wise gardener it is who thinks of the winter in springtime and plants for it as surely as
he thinks of spring in the winter season and longs for it! If, in the many ways by which the
affairs of daily life are re-enforced, the saying is true that "forethought is coin in the
pocket, quiet in the brain, and content in the heart," doubly does it apply to the pleasures
of living, of which the outdoor life of working side by side with nature, called gardening,
is one of the chief. When a garden is inherited, the traditions of the soil or reverence for
those who planned and toiled in it may make one blind to certain defects in its conception,
and beginning with a priori set by another one does as one can.

But in those choosing site, and breaking soil for themselves, inconsistency is inexcusable.
Follow the lay of the land and let it lead. Nature does not attempt placid lowland pictures
on a steep hillside, nor dramatic landscape effects in a horizonless meadow, therefore why
should you? For one great garden principle you will learn from nature's close companionship--consistency!

You who have a bit of abrupt hillside of impoverished soil, yet where the sky-line is divided
in a picture of many panels by the trees, you should not try to perch thereon a prim Dutch
garden of formal lines; neither should you, to whom a portion of fertile level plain has fallen,
seek to make it picturesque by a tortuous maze of walks, curving about nothing in particular
and leading nowhere, for of such is not nature. Either situation will develop the skill, though
in different directions, and do not forget that in spite of better soil it takes greater individuality
to make a truly good and harmonious garden on the flat than on the rolling ground.

I always tremble for the lowlander who, down in the depth of his nature, has a prenatal hankering
for rocks, because he is apt to build an undigested rockery! These sort of rockeries are wholly
separate from the rock gardens, often majestic, that nowadays supplement a bit of natural rocky
woodland, bringing it within the garden pale. The awful rockery of the flat garden is like
unto a nest of prehistoric eggs that have been turned to stone, from the interstices of which
a few wan vines and ferns protrude somewhat, suggesting the garnishing for an omelet.

Also, if you follow Nature and study her devices, you will alone learn the ways of the winds
and how to prepare for them. Where does Spring set her first flag of truce--out in the windswept
open?

No! the arbutus and hepatica lie bedded not alone in the fallen leaves of the forest but amid
their own enduring foliage. The skunk cabbage raises his hooded head first in sheltered hollows.
The marsh marigold lies in the protection of bog tussocks and stream banks. The first bloodroot
is always found at the foot of some natural windbreak, while the shad-bush, that ventures farther
afield and higher in air than any, is usually set in a protecting hedge, like his golden forerunner
the spice-bush.

If Nature looks to the ways of the wind when she plants, why should not we? A bed of the hardiest
roses set on a hill crest is a folly. Much more likely would they be to thrive wholly on the
north side of it. A garden set in a cut between hills that form a natural blowpipe can at best
do no more than hold its own, without advancing.

But there are some things that belong to the never-never land and may not be done here. You
may plant roses and carnations in the shade or in dry sea sand, but they will not thrive; you
cannot keep upland lilies cheerful with their feet in wet clay; you cannot have a garden all
the year in our northern latitudes, for nature does not; and you cannot afford to ignore the
ways of the wind, for according as it is kind or cruel does it mean garden life or death!

II

THE BOOK OF THE GARDEN, YOU, AND I

April 30. Gray dawn, into which father and Evan vanished with their fishing rods; then sunrise,
curtained by a slant of rain, during which the birds sang on with undamped ardour, a catbird
making his début for the season as soloist.

It must not be thought that I was up and out at dawn. At twenty I did so frequently, at thirty
sometimes, now at thirty-five I can do it perfectly well, if necessary, otherwise, save at
the change of seasons, to keep in touch with earth and sky, I raise myself comfortably, elbow
on pillow, and through the window scan garden, wild walk, and the old orchard at leisure, and
then let my arm slip and the impression deepen through the magic of one more chance for dreams.

9 o'clock. The warm throb of spring in the earth, rising in a potent mist, sap pervaded and
tangible, having a clinging, unctuous softness like the touch of unfolding beech leaves, lured
me out to finish the transplanting of the pansies among the hardy roses, while the first brown
thrasher, high in the bare top of an ash, eyes fixed on the sky, proclaimed with many turns
and changes the exact spot where he did not intend to locate his nest. This is an early spring,
of a truth.

Presently pale sunbeams thread the mist, gathering colour as they filter through the pollen-meshed
catkins of the black birches; an oriole bugling in the Yulan magnolias below at the road-bend,
fire amid snow; a high-hole laughing his courtship in the old orchard.

Then Lavinia Cortright coming up to exchange Dahlia bulbs and discuss annuals and aster bugs.
She and Martin browse about the country, visiting from door to door like veritable natives,
while their garden, at first so prim and genteel, like one of Lavinia's own frocks, has broken
bounds and taken on brocade, embroidery, and all sorts of lace frills, overflowed the south
meadow, and only pauses at the stile in the wall of our old crab-apple orchard, rivalling in
beauty and refined attraction any garden at the Bluffs. Martin's purse is fuller than of yore,
owing to the rise in Whirlpool real estate, and nothing is too good for Lavinia's garden. Even
more, he has of late let the dust rest peacefully on human genealogy and is collecting quaint
garden books and herbals, flower catalogues and lists, with the solemn intent of writing a
book on Historic Flowers. At least so he declares; but when Lavinia is in the garden, there
too is Martin. To-day, however, he joined my men before noon at the lower brook. Fancy a house-reared
man a convert to fishing when past threescore! Evan insists that it is because, being above
all things consistent, he wishes to appear at home in the company of father's cherished collection
of Walton's and other fishing books. Father says, "Nonsense! no man can help liking to fish!"

Toward evening came home a creel lined with bog moss; within, a rainbow glimmer of brook trout,
a posy of shad-bush, marsh marigolds, anemones, and rosy spring beauties from the river woods,--with
three cheerfully tired men, who gathered by the den hearth fire with coffee cup and pipe, inside
an admiring but sleepy circle of beagle hounds, who had run free the livelong day and who could
doubtless impart the latest rabbit news with thrilling detail. All this and much more made
up to-day, one of red letters.

Yesterday, Monday, was quite different, and if not absolutely black, was decidedly slate coloured.
It is only when some one of the household is positively ill that the record must be set down
in black characters, for what else really counts? Why is it that the city folk persist in judging
all rural days alike, that is until they have once really lived in the country, not merely
boarded and tried to kill time and their own digestions at one and the same moment.

Such exceptional days as yesterday should only be chronicled now and then to give an added
halo to happy to-morrows,--disagreeables are remembered quite long enough by perverse human nature.

Yesterday began with the pipe from the water-back bursting, thereby doing away with hot water
for shaving and the range fire at the same time. The coffee resented hurry, and the contact
with an oil stove developed the peanutty side of its disposition, something that is latent
in the best and most equable of brands.

The spring timetable having changed at midnight Sunday, unobserved by Evan, he missed the early
train, which it was especially important that he should take. Three other men found themselves
in the same predicament, two being Bluffers and one a Plotter. (These are the names given hereabout
to our two colonies of non-natives. The Bluffers are the people of the Bluffs, who always drive
to the station; the Plotters, living on a pretty tract of land near the village that was "plotted"
into house-lots a few years ago, have the usual newcomer's hallucination about making money
from raising chickens, and always walk.)

After a hasty consultation, one of the Bluffers telephoned for his automobile and invited the
others to make the trip to town with him. In order to reach the north turnpike that runs fairly
straight to the city, the chauffeur, a novice in local byways, proposed to take a short cut
through our wood road, instead of wheeling into the pike below Wakeleigh.

This wood road holds the frost very late, in spite of an innocent appearance to the contrary;
this fact Evan stated tersely. Would a chauffeur of the Bluffs listen to advice from a man
living halfway down the hill, who not only was autoless but frequently walked to the station,
and therefore to be classed with the Plotters? Certainly not; while at the same moment the
owner of the car decided the matter by pulling out his watch and murmuring to his neighbour
something about an important committee meeting, and it being the one day in the month when
time meant money!

Into the road they plunged, and after several hair-breadth lurches, for the cut is deep and
in places the rocks parallel with the roadway, the turnpike was visible; then a sudden jolt,
a sort of groan from the motor, and it ceased to breathe, the heavy wheels having settled in
a treacherous spot not wholly free from frost, its great stomach, or whatever they call the
part that holds its insides, wallowed hopelessly in the mud!

The gentlemen from the Bluffs deciding that, after all, there was no real need of going to
town, as they had only moved into the country the week previous, and the auto owner challenged
to a game of billiards by his friend, they returned home, while the Plotter and Evan walked
back two miles to the depot and caught the third train!

At home things still sizzled. Father had an important consultation at the hospital at ten;
ringing the stable call for the horses, he found that Tim, evidently forgetting the hour, had
taken them, Evan's also being of the trio, to the shoer half an hour before. There was a moment's
consternation and Bertel left the digging over of my hardy beds to speed down to the village
on his bicycle, and when the stanhope finally came up, father was as nearly irritable as I
have ever seen him, while Tim Saunders's eyes looked extra small and pointed. Evidently Bertel
had said things on his own account.

Was an explosion coming at last to end twelve years of out-of-door peace, also involving my
neighbour and domestic standby, Martha Corkle Saunders?

No; the two elderly men glanced at each other; there was nothing of the domineering or resentful
attitude that so often renders difficult the relation of master and man--"I must be getting
old and forgetful," quoth father, stepping into the gig.

"Nae, it's mair like I'm growin' deef in the nigh ear," said Tim, and without further argument
they drove away.

I was still pondering upon the real inwardness of the matter, when the boys came home to luncheon.
Two hungry, happy boys are a tonic at any time, and for a time I buttered bread--though alack,
the real necessity for so doing has long since passed--when, on explaining father's absence
from the meal, Ian said abruptly, "Jinks! grandpa's gone the day before! he told Tim Tuesday
at 'leven, I heard him!"

But, as it chanced, it was a slip of tongue, not memory, and I blessed Timothy Saunders for
his Scotch forbearance, which Evan insists upon calling prudence.

My own time of trial came in the early afternoon. During the more than ten years that I have
been a gardener on my own account, I have naturally tried many experiments and have gradually
come to the conclusion that it is a mistake to grow too many species of flowers,--better to
have more of a kind and thus avoid spinkiness. The pink family in general is one of those that
has stood the test, and this year a cousin of Evan's sent me over a quantity of Margaret carnation
seed from prize stock, together with that of some exhibition single Dahlias.

Late in February I sowed the seed in two of the most protected hotbeds, muffled them in mats
and old carpets every night, almost turned myself into a patent ventilator in order to give
the carnations enough air during that critical teething period of pinks, when the first grasslike
leaves emerge from the oval seed leaves and the little plants are apt to weaken at the ground
level, damp off, and disappear, thinned them out with the greatest care, and had (day before
yesterday) full five hundred lusty little plants, ready to go out into the deeply dug cool
bed and there wax strong according to the need of pinks before summer heat gains the upper hand.

The Dahlias had also thriven, but then they are less particular, and if they live well will
put up with more snubs than will a carnation.

Weather and Bertel being propitious, I prepared to plant out my pets, though of course they
must be sheltered of nights for another half month. As I was about to remove one of the props
that held the sash aloft, to let in air to the Dahlias, and still constitute it a windbreak,
I heard a violent whistling in our grass road north of the barn that divides the home acres
from the upper pastures and Martha's chicken farm. At first I thought but little of it, as
many people use it as a short cut from the back road from the Bluffs down to the village. Soon
a shout came from the same direction, and going toward the wall, I saw Mr. Vandeveer struggling
along, his great St. Bernard Jupiter, prize winner in a recent show and but lately released
from winter confinement, bounding around and over him to such an extent that the spruce New
Yorker, who had the reputation of always being on dress parade from the moment that he left
bed until he returned to it in hand-embroidered pink silk pajamas, was not only covered with
abundant April mud, but could hardly keep his footing.

At the moment I spied the pair, a great brindled cat, who sometimes ventures on the place,
in spite of all the attentions paid her by the beagles, and who had been watching sparrows
in the barnyard, sprang to the wall. Zip! There was a rush, a snarl, a hiss, and a smash! Dog
and what had been cat crashed through the sash of my Dahlia frame, and in the rebound ploughed
into the soft earth that held the carnations.

The next minute Mr. Vandeveer absolutely leaped over the wall, and seeing the dog, apparently
in the midst of the broken glass, turned almost apoplectic, shouting, "Ah, his legs will be
cut; he'll be ruined, and Julie will never forgive me! He's her best dog and cost $3000 spot
cash! Get him out, somebody, why don't you? What business have people to put such dangerous
skylights near a public road?"

Meanwhile, as wrath arose in my throat and formed ugly words, Jupiter, a great friend of ours,
who has had more comfortable meals in our kitchen during the winter than the careless kennel
men would have wished to be known, sprang toward me with well-meant, if rough, caresses,--evidently
the few scratches he had amounted to nothing. I forgave him the cat cheerfully, but my poor
carnations! They do not belong to the grovelling tribe of herbs that bend and refuse to break
like portulaca, chickweed, and pusley the accursed. Fortunately, just then, a scene of the
past year, which had come to me by report, floated across my vision. Our young hounds, Bob
and Pete, in the heat of undisciplined rat-catching (for these dogs when young and unbroken
will chase anything that runs), completely undermined the Vandeveers' mushroom bed, the door
of the pit having been left open!

When Mr. Vandeveer recovered himself, he began profuse apologies. Would "send the glazier down
immediately"--"so sorry to spoil such lovely young onions and spinach!"

"What! not early vegetables, but flowers?" Oh, then he should not feel so badly. Really, he
had quite forgotten himself, but the truth was Julie thought more of her dogs and horses than
even of himself, he sometimes thought,--almost, but not quite; "ha! ha! really, don't you know!"
While, judging by the comparative behaviour of dog and man, the balance was decidedly in favour
of Jupiter. But you see I never like men who dress like ladies, I had lost my young plants,
and I love dogs from mongrel all up the ladder (lap dogs excepted), so I may be prejudiced.

After Bertel had carefully removed the splintered glass from the earth, so that I could take
account of my damaged stock, about half seemed to be redeemable; but even those poor seedlings
looked like soldiers after battle, a limb gone here and an eye missing there.

At supper father, Evan, and I were silent and ceremoniously polite, neither referring to the
day's disasters, and I could see that the boys were regarding us with open-eyed wonder. When
the meal was almost finished, the bell of the front door rang and Effie returned, bearing a
large, ornamental basket, almost of the proportions of a hamper, with a card fastened conspicuously
to the handle, upon which was printed "With apologies from Jupiter!" Inside was a daintily
arranged assortment of hothouse vegetables,--cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplant eggs, artichokes,--with
a separate basket in one corner brimming with strawberries, and in the other a pink tissue-paper
parcel, tied with ribbon, containing mushrooms, proving that, after all, fussy Mr. Vandeveer
has the saving grace of humour.

My righteous garden-indignation dwindled; laughter caught me by the throat and quenched the
remainder. Evan, knowing nothing of the concatenation, but scenting something from the card,
joined sympathetically. Glancing at father, I saw that his nose was twitching, and in a moment
his shoulders began to shake and he led the general confession that followed. It seems that
he arrived at the hospital really the day of the consultation, but found that the patient,
in need of surgical care, had been seized with nervous panic and gone home!

After such a thoroughly vulgar day there is really nothing to do but laugh and plan something
pleasant for to-morrow, unless you prefer crying, which, though frequently a relief to the
spirit, is particularly bad for eye wrinkles in the middle-aged.

May-day. I always take this as a holiday, and give myself up to any sort of outdoor folly that
comes into my head. There is nothing more rejuvenating than to let one's self thoroughly go
now and then.

Then, besides, to an American, May-day is usually a surprise in itself. You never can tell
what it will bring, for it is by no means the amiable and guileless child of the poets, breathing
perfumed south wind and followed by young lambs through meadows knee deep in grass and flowers.

In the course of fifteen years I have seen four May-days when there was enough grass to blow
in the wind and frost had wholly left for the season; to balance this there have been two brief
snow squalls, three deluges that washed even big beans out of ground, and a scorching drought
that reduced the brooks, unsheltered by leafage, to August shallowness. But to-day has been
entirely lovable and full of the promise that after all makes May the garden month of the year,
the time of perfect faith, hope, and charity when we may believe all things!

This morning I took a stroll in the woods, partly to please the dogs, for though they always
run free, they smile and wag furiously when they see the symptoms that tell that I am going
beyond the garden. What a difference there is between the north and south side of things! On
the south slope the hepaticas have gone and the columbines show a trace of red blood, while
on the north, one is in perfection and the other only as yet making leaves. This is a point
to be remembered in the garden, by which the season of blooming can be lengthened for almost
all plants that do not demand full, unalloyed sun, like the rose and pink families.

Every year I am more and more surprised at the hints that can be carried from the wild to the
cultivated. For instance, the local soil in which the native plants of a given family nourish
is almost always sure to agree better with its cultivated, and perhaps tropical, cousin than
the most elaborately and scientifically prepared compost. This is a matter that both simplifies
and guarantees better success to the woman who is her own gardener and lives in a country sufficiently
open for her to be able to collect soil of various qualities for special purposes. Lilies were
always a very uncertain quantity with me, until the idea occurred of filling my bed with earth
from a meadow edge where Lilium Canadense, year after year, mounted her chimes of gold and
copper bells on leafy standards often four feet high.

We may read and listen to cultural ways and methods, but when all is said and done, one who
has not a fat purse for experiments and failures must live the outdoor life of her own locality
to get the best results in the garden.

Then to have a woman friend to compare notes with and prove rules by is a comforting necessity.
No living being can say positively, "I will do so and so;" or "I know," when coming in contact
with the wise old earth!

Lavinia Cortright has only had a garden for half a dozen summers, and consults me as a veteran,
yet I'm discovering quite as much from her experiments as she from mine. Last winter, when
seed-catalogue time came round, and we met daily and scorched our shoes before the fire, drinking
a great deal too much tea in the excitement of making out our lists, we resolved to form a
horticulture society of only three members, of which she elected me the recording secretary,
to be called "The Garden, You, and I."

We expect to have a variety of experiences this season, and frequent meetings both actual and
by pen, for Lavinia, in combination with Horace and Sylvia Bradford, last year built a tiny
shore cottage, three miles up the coast, at Gray Rocks, where they are going for alternate
weeks or days as the mood seizes them, and they mean to try experiments with real seashore
gardening, while Evan proposes that we should combine pleasure with business in a way to make
frequent vacations possible and take driving trips together to many lovely gardens both large
and small, to our mutual benefit, his eyes being open to construction and landscape effect,
and mine to the soul of the garden, as it were; for he is pleased to say that a woman can grasp
and translate this more easily and fully than a man. What if the records of The Garden, You,
and I should turn into a real book, an humble shadow of "Six of Spades" of jovial memory! Is
it possible that I am about to be seized with Agamemnon Peterkin's ambition to write a book
to make the world wise? Alas, poor Agamemnon! When he had searched the woods for an oak gall
to make ink, gone to the post-office, after hours, to buy a sheet of paper, and caused a commotion
in the neighbourhood and rumour of thieves by going to the poultry yard with a lantern to pluck
a fresh goose quill for a pen, he found that he had nothing to say, and paused--thereby, at
least, proving his own wisdom.

I'm afraid I ramble too much to be a good recording secretary, but this habit belongs to my
very own garden books that no critical eyes can see. That reminds me! Father says that he met
Bartram Penrose in town last week and that he seemed rather nervous and tired, and worried
about nothing, and wanted advice. After looking him over a bit, father told him that all he
needed was a long vacation from keeping train, as well as many other kinds of time, for it
seems during the six years of his marriage he has had no real vacation but his honeymoon.

Mary Penrose's mother, my mother, and Lavinia Cortright were all school friends together, and
since Mary married Bartram and moved to Woodridge we've exchanged many little visits, for our
husbands agree, and now that she has time she is becoming an enthusiastic gardener, after my
own heart, having last season become convinced of the ugliness of cannas and coleus beds about
a restored colonial farmhouse. Why might they not join us on our driving trips, by way of their
vacation?

Immediately I started to telephone the invitation, and then paused. I will write instead. Mary
Penrose is on the long-distance line,--toll thirty cents in the daytime! In spring I am very
stingy; thirty cents means six papers of flower seeds, or three heliotropes. Whereas in winter
it is simply thirty cents, and it must be a very vapid conversation indeed that is not worth
so much on a dark winter day of the quality when neither driving nor walking is pleasant, and
if you get sufficiently close to the window to see to read, you develop a stiff neck. Also,
the difficulty is that thirty cents is only the beginning of a conversation betwixt Mary Penrose
and myself, for whoever begins it usually has to pay for overtime, which provokes quarterly
discussion. Is it not strange that very generous men often have such serious objections to
the long-distance tails to their telephone bills, and insist upon investigating them with vigour,
when they pay a speculator an extra dollar for a theatre ticket without a murmur? They must
remember that telephones, whatever may be said to the contrary, are one of the modern aids
to domesticity and preventives of gadding, while still keeping one not only in touch with a
friend but within range of the voice. Surely there can be no woman so self-sufficient that
she does not in silent moments yearn for a spoken word with one of her kind.

When I had finished sowing my first planting of mignonette and growled at the prospective labour
entailed by thinning out the fall-sown Shirley poppies (I have quite resolved to plant everything
in the vegetable-garden seed beds and then transplant to the flowering beds as the easier task),
Lavinia Cortright came up, note-book in hand, inviting herself comfortably to spend the day,
and thoroughly inspect the hardy seed bed, to see what I had for exchange, as well as perfect
her plan of starting one of her own.

By noon the sun had made the south corner, where the Russian violets grow, quite warm enough
to make lunching out-of-doors possible, and promising to protect Lavinia's rather thinly shod
feet from the ground with one of the rubber mats whereon I kneel when I transplant, she consented
to thus celebrate the coming of the season of liberty, doors open to the air and sun, the soul
to every whisper of Heart of Nature himself, the steward of the plan and eternal messenger of God.

"Hard is the heart that loveth naught in May!" Yes, so hard that it is no longer flesh and
blood, for under the spell of renewal every grass blade has new beauty, every trifle becomes
of importance, and the humble song sparrow a nightingale.

The stars that blazed of winter nights have fallen and turned to dandelions in the grass; the
Forsythias are decked in gold, a colour that is carried up and down the garden borders in narcissus,
dwarf tulips, and pansies, peach blossoms giving a rosy tinge to the snow fall of cherry bloom.

To-day there are two catbirds, Elle et Lui, and the first Johnny Wren is inspecting the particular
row of cottages that top the long screen of honeysuckles back of the walk named by Richard
Wren Street. Why is the song sparrow calling "Dick, Dick!" so lustily and scratching so testily
in the leaves that have drifted under an old rose shrub? The birds' bath and drinking basin
is still empty; I pour out the libation to the day by filling it.

The seed bed is reached at last. It has wintered fairly well, and the lines of plants all show
new growth. As I started to point out and explain, Lavinia Cortright began to jot down name
and quantity, and then, stopping, said: "No, you must write it out as the first record for
The Garden, You, and I. I make a motion to that effect." As I was about to protest, the postman
brought some letters, one being from Mary Penrose, to whom Mrs. Cortright stands as aunt by
courtesy. I opened it, and spreading it between us we began to read, so that afterward Lavinia
declared that her motion was passed by default.

                                              "WOODRIDGE, April 30.
"MY DEAR MRS. EVAN,

"I am going into gardening in earnest this spring, and I want you and Aunt Lavinia to tell
me things,--things that you have done yourselves and succeeded or failed in. Especially about
the failures. It is a great mistake for garden books and papers to insist that there is no
such word in horticulture as fail, that every flower bed can be kept in full flower six months
of the year, in addition to listing things that will bloom outdoors in winter in the Middle
States, and give all floral measurements as if seen through a telephoto lens. It makes one
feel the exceptional fool. It's discouraging and not stimulating in the least. Doesn't even
nature meet with disaster once in a while as if by way of encouragement to us? And doesn't
nature's garden have on and off seasons? So why shouldn't ours?

"There is a quantity of Garden Goozle going about nowadays that is as unbelievable, and quite
as bad for the constitution and pocket, as the guarantees of patent medicines. No, Garden Goozle
is not my word, you must understand; it was invented by a clever professor of agriculture,
whom Bart met not long ago, and we loved the word so much that we have adopted it. The mental
quality of Garden Goozle seems to be compounded of summer squash and milkweed milk, and it
would be quite harmless were it not for the strong catbriers grafted in the mass for impaling
the purses of the trusting.

"Ah, if we only lived a little nearer together, near enough to talk over the garden fence!
It seems cruel to ask you to write answers to all my questions, but after listing the hardy
plants I want for putting the garden on a consistent old-time footing, I find the amount runs
quite to the impossible three figures, aside from everything else we need, so I've decided
on beginning with a seed bed, and I want to know before we locate the new asparagus bed how
much ground I shall need for a seed bed, what and how to plant, and everything else!

"I like all the hardy things you have, especially those that are mice, lice, and water proof!
If you will send me ever so rough a list, I shall be grateful. Would I better begin at once
or wait until July or August, as some of the catalogues suggest?

"Bart has just come in and evidently has something on his mind of which he wishes to relieve
himself via speech.

                  "Your little sister of the garden,

                                              "MARY P."

"She must join The Garden, You, and I," said Lavinia Cortright, almost before I had finished
the letter. "She will be entertainer in chief, for she never fails to be amusing!"

"I thought there were to be but three members," I protested, thinking of the possible complications
of a three-cornered correspondence.

"Ah, well," Lavinia Cortright replied quickly, "make the Garden an Honorary member; it is usual
so to rank people of importance from whom much is expected, and then we shall still be but
three--with privilege of adding your husband as councillor and mine as librarian and custodian
of deeds!"

So I have promised to write to Mary Penrose this evening.

III

CONCERNING HARDY PLANTS

THE SEED BED FOR HARDY FLOWERS

When the Cortrights first came to Oaklands, expecting to remain here but a few months each
summer, their garden consisted of some borders of old-fashioned, hardy flowers, back of the
house. These bounded a straight walk that, beginning at the porch, went through an arched grape
arbour, divided the vegetable garden, and finally ended under a tree in the orchard at the
barrier made by a high-backed green wooden seat, that looked as if it might have been a pew
taken from some primitive church on its rebuilding.

