It was in using the lance, that Antiochus--a kinsman of the Queen, whom I believe I have not
before mentioned, although I have many times met him--chiefly signalized himself. This person,
half Syrian and half Roman, possessing the bad qualities of both and the good ones of neither,
was made one of this party, rather, I suppose, because he could not be left out, than because
he was wanted. He has few friends in Palmyra, but among wild and dissolute spirits like himself.
He is famed for no quality either great or good. Violent passions and intemperate lusts are
what he is chiefly noted for. But, except that pride and arrogance are writ upon the lines
of his countenance, you would hardly guess that his light-tinted and beardless cheeks and soft
blue eyes belonged to one of so dark and foul a soul. His frame and his strength are those
of a giant; yet is he wholly destitute of grace. His limbs seem sometimes as if they were scarcely
a part of him, such difficulty does he discover in marshalling them aright. Consciousness of
this embarrasses him, and sends him for refuge to his pride, which darts looks of anger and
bitter revenge upon all who offend or make light of him. His ambition is, and his hope, to
succeed Zenobia. You may think this strange, considering the family of the Queen. But as for
the sons of Zenobia, he calculates much, so it is reported, upon their weakness both of mind
and body, as rendering them distasteful to the Palmyrenes, even if they should live; and as
for Julia and her sisters, he has so high conceptions of his own superior merit, that he doubts
not in case of the Queen's demise, that the people would by acclamation select him, in preference
to them, as her successor; or in the last emergency, that it would be but to marry Julia, in
order to secure the throne beyond any peradventure. These are the schemes which many do not
scruple to impute to him. Whether credited or not by Zenobia, I cannot tell. But were they,
I believe she would but smile at the poor lack-brain who entertains them. Intrenched as she
is in the impregnable fortress of her people's heart, she might well despise the intrigues
of a bolder and worthier spirit than Antiochus. For him she can spare neither words nor thoughts.

It was Fausta who a few days ago, as we rose from the tables, proposed that we should try our
strength and skill in throwing the lance. 'I promised you, Lucius,' said she, 'that when here,
you should be permitted to judge of my abilities in that art. Are all ready for the sport?'

All sprang from their seats, like persons weary of one occupation, and grateful for the proffer
of another.

Zenobia led the way to the grounds, not far from the palace, appropriated to games of this
kind, and to the various athletic sports. Not all the company entered the lists, but many seated
themselves, or stood around, spectators of the strife. Slaves now appeared, bearing the lances,
and preparing the ground for our exercise. The feat to be performed seemed to me not difficult
so much as impossible. It was to throw the lance with such unerring aim and force, as to pass
through an aperture in a shield of four-fold ox-hide, of a size but slightly larger than the
beam of the lance, so as not so much as to graze the sides of the perforated place. The distance
too of the point from which the lance was to be thrown, from the shield, was such as to require
great strength of arm to overcome it.

The young Caesars advanced first to the trial. 'Now,' whispered Fausta, 'behold the vigor of
the royal arm. Were such alone our defence, well might Palmyra tremble.'

