Volume Five. The legendary great, the half-historical personages that have been for so many
centuries the inspiration of youths of many lands are found again in this volume in the person
of the Greek heroes and, at much greater length, in England's famous King Arthur. The story
of his Round Table and its knights is told in an extremely interesting way. The spirit of Sir
Thomas Malory is retained in his quaint accounts and Tennyson's noble poems show how great
a factor the legends of Arthur have been in literature. Besides the articles that are instructive
there are a few that are highly entertaining or merely humorous, for every child has a right
to read sometimes for amusement only. It will be seen that some classes of literature have
ceased to appear and that others are coming into view. The "spiral arrangement" is nicely illustrated
in the reappearance of history and the legendary heroes and in the disappearance of myths and
fairy tales, for which there is, however, some compensation in the highly imaginative Gulliver's
Travels, an extract from Dean Swift.

In this volume are also included a little cycle on one of the great heroes of the Scotch, Robert
Bruce. These carry on the series of selections on legendary heroes, begun in Volume Three.
These are followed by stories of adventure, of frontier life in the Central West, tales from
the early history of our country. Reminiscences of a Pioneer, The Buccaneers, Captain Morgan
at Maracaibo, and Braddock's Defeat are examples of this kind of literature. These selections
are authentic accounts from original sources and are among those things which boys really like,
but which have not heretofore been accessible to them. Patriotic Poems, somewhat in the same
vein, are given where they will be noticed and read.

Volume Six. In this volume the series of legendary and semi-historical selections is completed.
It includes the best of the legends concerning the national hero of Persia, also the story
of The Tournament from Ivanhoe, inserted here as a fitting introduction to Scott's novels.
There are several examples of nature studies in literature and several fine stories that have
their place in the education of everyone. The best of these stories and one of the finest ever
written is Rab and His Friend. A cycle of a religious nature is found in those selections which
are named The Imitation of Christ, The Destruction of Sennacherib, Ruth, and The Vision of
Belshazzar.

The longest and best story in this book is A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens. This is a
model in construction and furnishes the basis for all the studies that would naturally accompany
the most elaborate piece of fiction.

The sixth volume is one of interest and one that will give plenty of opportunity for study
to those who have the inclination to follow out the suggestions that accompany the selections.
Close study should be upon those things which are already somewhat familiar. The high school
student will find his time more profitably spent in working on the things in this volume than
in poring over the more difficult masterpieces that are sometimes prescribed in courses of
study. What we desire is power to read, understand and appreciate, and that is obtained by
study upon those things that interest us and about which we know enough to enable us to use
our minds to best advantage.

Volume Seven. On the whole, this is a more mature volume than any that has preceded it and
yet there are some selections of a simple character inserted for the purpose of interesting
those who cannot yet read very heavy literature. From this point on, however, there is little
difference in the grade of the volumes. The way in which the literature is studied marks the
difference in rank. In fact, when a person can read intelligently and with appreciation such
selections as appear in this volume he can read anything that is set before him. There may
be some things that will require effort and perhaps explanation, but it is merely a question
of vocabulary and parallel information. Besides the stories, there are selections in every
department of literature except those that have been passed in the progress of the plan of
grading. The legendary heroes, the myths and the stories of classic literature are no longer
to be found. In their place are more selections on nature, more of biography and history and
the real literature of inspiration. Some of the last group appear in the form of fine lyrics
which everyone loves but which are made more attractive and inspiring by proper setting and
helpful interpretations.

In this volume biography, which has had its share of attention in every volume, becomes a strong
feature, especially in the fine sketches that are given of famous writers. It is a fact that
most writers have lived so quietly and in such comparative seclusion that their lives are devoid
of the exciting events that make the liveliest appeal to young people, yet every one has done
so much for the world and in such varied ways that there are things in their lives that interest
and enthrall the mind if only they are properly presented. Our great American writers have
been noble men and women and their lives are models worthy of imitation. That is the thing
for us to glory in and for our young people to know, for it is not by any means a universal
fact that people who wrote inspiring literature have lived inspiring lives. The literature
of nature is probably stronger in this volume than in any other and the selections are of the
most absorbing kind. It is not expected to give a vast amount of information but to create
a love for reading about the great facts in nature and an appreciation of the beauties in the
writings of those who love it. This is the last volume in which there is much fiction and it
marks the beginnings of the really fine essays which form a large part of the succeeding volume.
The history is of a higher type and includes excerpts from the writings of some of our greatest
historians.

Volume Eight. The notable feature of the eighth volume is the selection from the plays of Shakespeare.
Nothing is more important in the literary education of a child than his proper introduction
to the greatest of our great writers, and this has been accomplished in the following manner.
The Tempest was selected as the play, because it is simple and lively in its style, appeals
to young people and has in it just enough of the marvelous, the beautiful and the terrible
to make a decided impression on one who reads it for the first time. There are other plays
that are greater but none that may be taught so easily to juvenile readers. In this volume
there is a brief article on the reading of Shakespeare; this is followed by the inimitable
tale of The Tempest by Charles and Mary Lamb; this by the play, The Tempest, practically as
it was written; and this, in turn, by a long series of interesting studies on the drama. The
whole is attractive from start to finish and the studies are certain to lead the reader to think.

The drama, then, is the new feature of the ninth volume, but this is also the volume of fine
essays, the highest type of prose. The essays are best represented by the following titles,
all of which may be found in the table of contents of the eighth volume: The Alhambra by Irving,
A Bed of Nettles by Allen, Dream Children, by Charles Lamb. These titles, too, show how broad
is the field covered by the essay and how delightful a variety there may be in the one style
of composition. The departments of Travel and Adventure, Patriotism and History have not been
neglected. On the whole it is a serious volume, one which will give the high school student
and the older members of the family a plentiful supply of good reading material and a suggestion
of study for the evenings of many a winter day.

Volume Nine. Most of the selections in this volume are rather difficult reading for young people
but there are helps enough to make the task a pleasant one. The series of essays, begun in
Volume Eight is here continued, with The Ascent of the Jungfrau by Tyndall, A Dissertation
upon Roast Pig and The Praise of Chimney Sweepers by Charles Lamb, and two representative essays
by Sir Francis Bacon. The studies are of an advanced nature and if carried out as intended
will be of decided service to high school students. In a few cases the selections are simple,
like Robert of Lincoln, for instance, but the studies that accompany it are the more complete.
It is hoped by such an arrangement to show how inexhaustible a field for study literature offers
and how many things there are to be known about the least of our fine lyrics. The Ode on a
Grecian Urn is of a different type. This poem makes no direct appeal to sentiment or to the
knowledge of the average young person, yet by study it is seen to be a lyric of exquisite beauty.
This volume introduces the writings of several authors who have not before appeared because
of their slight appeal to young people. Among them may be mentioned particularly Addison, Boswell,
and Bacon. The volume contains also orations that should be studied as models, viz: The Gettysburg
Address, The Fate of the Indians and The Call to Arms. Each has a series of studies following
it. As a relief from the serious work of the volume there are included an extract from Pickwick
Papers; that fascinating story, The Gold-Bug; and the delightful essay, Modestine, an extract
from Travels with a Donkey, by Stevenson.

Volume Ten. At the end of this volume are given two tables; the first arranges the leading
English writers chronologically, and the second follows a similar plan with the American authors.
The index with which the book closes is for the entire series and enables the reader to find
the selections readily, if he knows either the title or the name of the author; to find all
the selections on any given topic; and to find the studies quickly if they are wanted. The
index should prove as useful as any of the devices with which the books are filled.

CHAPTER III

PICTURES AND THEIR USE

I. What Should We Notice in a Picture?

In his excellent little book, How to Judge of a Picture, Van Dyke speaks of the things that
constitute a good painting as follows: "First, it is good in tone, or possess a uniformity
of tone that is refreshing to the eye; second, it is good in atmosphere--something you doubtless
never thought could be expressed with a paint-brush; third, it is well composed, and a landscape
requires composition as well as a figure piece; fourth, 'values' are well maintained, its qualities
good, its poetic feeling excellent." A second writer has said that beauty is manifested in
four ways: by line, by light and shade, by color and by composition. We will consider these
characteristics in order.

a. Line. We define the boundaries of objects and limit space by means of lines, and the use
of lines constitutes drawing in pictures. These lines so used may be narrow or broad, straight
or curved, perfect or broken, and definite or vague and undetermined. Upon their proper use,
however, depends the beauty of proportion, the strength of personality and the impressions
of truthfulness and reality. There are few rigid lines in nature. What we see is an impression
of line, not sharp lines. If you look at a book you may see the sharp lines that bound its
edges but if you move it away a little or put it in shadow its boundaries are a little hazy
and gradually you lose the impression of the lines that bound it and see only a book. A tree
has no sharp outline except when it stands on a horizon and looks like a silhouette against
the light. Ordinarily it is a mass of moving light and shade, of color. The leaves are not
separately limited by lines and yet we know that leaves are there. If the artist drew each
leaf separately and accurately the general effect would be extremely unnatural and instead
of a tree we should see only the minute carefulness of a painter who had failed. Perfect lines,
then, are rare in good pictures. The artist does not intend to make exact representations of
reality but to convey the appearance of reality, and just in so far as he succeeds in conveying
that appearance of reality is he successful. This does not mean that good drawing is not necessary
in a picture; it merely tells you what constitutes good drawing. If the lines of the human
figure are perfect it is almost certain that the figure will be strained, unnatural and without
the appearance of life or motion. In a good picture the lines of good drawing are present but
they are broken, subdued and lead into one another as do the lines we see in nature.

b. Light and Shade. It is the distribution of light and shadows in a picture that gives it
the appearance of reality. A mere outline drawing is flat and has no semblance of life. The
paintings of the ancient Egyptians are good examples of pictures that have no light and shade,
and we all know how flat, stiff and unreal they appear. In pen and ink, and charcoal drawings,
light is indicated by white and shadow by black, but between the two extremes are introduced
various shades and tints of gray that make the variety of tone in shadows. This varying of
the strength of shadows is everywhere in nature, though most of us are blind to it. In looking
at any object for the purpose of distinguishing the lights and shades upon it we should half
close our eyes and look intently at all parts of it. Under an inspection of this sort the building
which we thought to be all of even light is seen to be dotted with patches of shadow of different
intensity, showing that there are projections where the light from the sun strikes clearly
or depressions into which it cannot enter so freely. A picture should give the same effect,
and it is this effect, which includes also the distance from the eye as well as the shades
from the light source, that we call "values." If we look at a tree in the way described we
see that it is covered with patches of green in light or dark tints and that these color values
are the lights and shades of which we are speaking. There will be one point of highest light
and an opposing point of deepest shadow, and upon the proper arrangement of these as well as
upon the patches of minor importance depends the lifelike appearance of the objects in the
picture. Van Dyke says there are three things concerning light and shade that should be looked
for in every picture, viz.: that everything, no matter how small it be, has its due proportion
of light and shade; that there be one point of compass from which the light comes; that there
be a center of light in the picture itself, from which all other lights radiate and decrease
until they are lost in the color or shadow.

c. Tone and Color. The first thing that seizes the eye in a painting is color, and the brightest,
gayest colors are the ones that are most likely to attract. In fact they are the only colors
that the inexperienced may see, for many a person is blind to the subdued tints and shades
that are really the most attractive to the trained eye. Good coloring, then, does not mean
brightness alone. It is the relationship, the qualities and the suitableness of colors one
to another, whether they be in shadow, half-tint or light, that constitute good coloring. Brilliant
dresses and inharmonious ornaments strike the refined eye with displeasure, the wearer is "loud"
in her dress. Subdued colors relieved here and there with a harmonious dash of brightness show
correct taste. So in pictures those that have the low or deep tones, that are rich and harmonious,
are the ones that are most appreciated by the experts, and are the ones usually found to have
been painted by the masters. Nevertheless if high color combines richness and harmony it shows
a fine skill. Tone has to do with the quantity of color used in the painting, and harmony with
the qualities of colors. Tone and harmony must combine to make perfect coloring.

d. Composition. If we study any great poem, drama or novel, one that is constructed with a
due regard for unity, we find there is one central character or idea and that all other persons,
all incidents, scenes and all the little devices that go to give reality to the conception
are subordinated to the central person or idea. Unless this is done the creation lacks unity
and therefore lacks force, beauty and coherence. The same facts hold true of a picture. Every
good picture is so arranged and drawn that the important idea is centralized and the parts
are unified and harmonized until the whole is single in its effect. This is accomplished by
what is called in the language of the painter, "composition." Important things are recognized
and lesser things subordinated to give beauty, clearness and brilliancy to the central idea.
While these facts are most obvious in pictures that contain figures, it is no less true in
landscapes or other pictures which contain no figures. For instance, a moonlight scene on the
Hudson would have as its central idea the beauty of the light on the water and the mountains.
To secure this the artist would keep down the lines of the mountains, subordinate the details
in the foreground and place as the central idea in the picture the pale shimmering light from
the moon whether that body be itself visible or not. Oftentimes in looking at a picture it
is difficult to tell wherein its excellent composition lies, but the absence of strength and
unity is unerringly felt.

e. Atmosphere and Perspective. We are all familiar with the diminished size of objects seen
at a distance and realize that the apparent coming together of two parallel lines, as those
of a railway track, is owing to the same cause. We know, too, that this diminishing must be
shown in a picture or there is no sense of distance for the spectator. What is not so clear
to us usually, is that there is as great a difference in color and the appearance of objects.
The diminution of size is linear perspective and the change of color due to distance and atmospheric
conditions is commonly called aerial perspective. The tendency among amateurs is to paint a
tree green no matter how far away from the spectator it is, while a little observation and
study would show the veriest tyro that the green of a distant tree has faded till to the eye
it looks a bluish gray. Moreover, outlines have faded and seem to flow into those of other
objects, and all combine to give to the picture the true appearance of distance, which is what
the artist seeks and the one who looks at the picture has a right to expect.

f. An Application of the Foregoing Principles. What has been said on this subject of judging
a picture may be made clearer by an application to one of the pictures in Journeys. Let us
take, for instance, the color plate facing page 304, in Volume VI. It is a reproduction in
color of the painting in water colors, Bob and Tiny Tim, and will show what is meant by the
comments above almost as well as the original painting would have done.

1. Tone and color. Are the colors in the picture bright and gay or are they subdued? What are
the brightest colors? Are the colors harmonious or do they "quarrel" as they come to the eye?

Are the shades of blue and purple and lighter colors in the clothing of the various persons
glaring or subdued? Do you observe any inharmony which offends the eye, or are you pleased
with contrasting colors and tones? The harmony in color is due to the choice of colors that
do not contrast too strongly. The artist knew which were complementary colors; that is, which,
united, form white. Which colors in the picture do you think show warmth, and which show cold,
as suitable to out-of-door scenes? What effect on the rest of the picture does the olive green
of the interior of the room have? What effect does the gray green of the open door have?

2. Light and Shade. Is the picture flat and without appearance of life, or do the persons and
objects stand out in a life-like manner? Are parts of the picture in shade, so that outlines
are lost? The artist has shown the left of the building in the foreground as in shadow; how
is this effect produced? Do you observe gradations of tone in the shawl on Tiny Tim, which
indicate relative light and shadow? Where is the highest light in the picture, and where the
darkest shadow? Are the lights strong as if the sun were shining, or soft and diffused, as
is noticeable on a snowy winter's day?

3. Line. Although you cannot see Bob's feet in the picture, do you feel that his body is well
supported? Is his position natural, as of one carrying a burden on one shoulder? Are the lines
of the figures in the foreground clear and distinct? How do they compare with the lines of
the figures and building across the street? In both cases the artist gives us all that is necessary
to convey the impression of reality. In the use of oils and water colors, sharp lines are avoided.
Colors are used so that different surfaces and effects flow into one another; the lines are
concealed and we have the very counterfeit of reality. This constitutes good drawing.

4. Composition. What is the central idea of the picture? The artist has brought the principal
figures into the immediate foreground; do the arrangement of color, contrasts of tone values,
and the smaller figures in the background give life and significance to the figures of Bob
and Tiny Tim? Would the effectiveness of the picture be greater or less if the artist had failed
to show the snowy outdoor scene, with its holiday spirit? Do you recall the incident in the
story portrayed by the picture? Are the characteristics of Bob and Tiny Tim, as described by
Dickens, faithfully followed by the artist? Do their faces show the spirit of Christmas? If
you had not read the story, would you not feel a glow of sympathy for the little boy, and a
wish that you could join in making a happy holiday for him? Has not the artist succeeded in
bringing the scene described by the author more vividly and beautifully to us?

5. Atmosphere and Perspective. How far from the figures of Bob and the little boy are the people
on the sidewalk? How does the artist express the idea of relative distance? Are there any lines
in the picture which help us to determine distance? If the eye follows the lines of the cross
pieces on the door, will they not come together if extended far enough to the left? Of course
the buildings across the street are not very far away, but their outlines are a little hazy.
Does this haziness help to give the effect of distance? Do you think the door was really a
gray-green? Has the artist used this tone to show the effect of the outdoor light on a gray,
or possibly a white door? The building across the street, at the left, has yellow and red and
purple tones; do you think these were the actual colors? If not, why has the artist selected
these particular shades? Do parts of buildings or other objects in shadow take on different
shades from parts in bright lights? What colors appear most frequently in the picture? Has
the artist succeeded in giving the picture the atmosphere of Dickens's story?

II. Pictures and Their Value in Literature

Pictures are in themselves a language--the oldest as well as the most universal tongue of the
world. The primitive man of all races resorted to a picture-writing in his first efforts to
transcribe his thoughts and emotions into a more lasting form than the oral expression. Our
earliest authentic history of the customs, beliefs and life of the ancient Egyptians, the Babylonians,
the Chinese and even our own American Indians comes to us from the pictured records they left
on stone, wood or clay.

In the present age, what child does not yield to the magic rhythm and the compelling lilt of
the old nursery rhymes! With what added joy does he discover that there are pictures for these
treasured jingles! And long before the printed words can be recognized he enters the alluring
world of books by "reading" the illustrations. With glowing eyes on the picture he repeats
the rhyme he had learned from its many demanded repetitions.

By giving him simple, clear, realistic conceptions through pictures, we influence the child
to read eagerly the text, to discover the whole story, of which such a fascinating hint is
given in the portion illustrated. These first pictures must satisfy the child's love of action
and movement, and portray only the most dramatic scenes, the big important facts with all superfluous
happenings omitted.

In fables, where the primary purpose is to convey an abstract truth, a something bigger and
broader than the mere interesting events described, the illustrations add much to the meaning
and purpose of the text. Here the artist shows not only the physical attributes of the real
animal, but in a subtle way goes a step further and through the features or the attitude suggests
the characteristics attributed in the fable. Thus unconsciously the little reader gets from
the picture an increased conception of the sly, clever, crafty ways of the fox or the slow,
plodding, steadfast patience of the tortoise.

As literature develops from the simple nursery rhyme and the brief, abrupt fable to the fairy
tale with its illusive beauty, so the pictures should advance in a parallel and a closely related
manner. The illustrations now take on a mysterious, unreal, esthetic quality, in harmony with
the world of fairy lore, and train the imagination as much as the direct words of the author.
The child realizes that the forest scenes which furnish the background for so many of his favorite
fairy tales have a subtle beauty which has never been seen by him. Gradually through such pictures
he is led to seek an ideal beauty in the real world. He also becomes able not only to appreciate
the poetic rendering of this expression of the ideal but is capable of forming more varied
mental images of things about which he reads; to put more of his own individuality, his own
conceptions, into his mental picture.

The passing ages have so completely revolutionized the customs and ways of life that the child
of today finds comparatively little in his familiar surroundings which he can link with the
world of history and legend. Literature should be supplemented by pictures to bridge this chasm
and to bring legendary and historical heroes into the child's own world and enable him to follow
their thoughts, interpret their emotions and appreciate their actions.

The child who sees a picture of court life where the cavalier is attired in richly colored
velvet, silk, lace, and jewels, and surrounded by the luxuries of the court, and compares it
with another of the same period which portrays a Puritan in his somber-hued, severe suit, stiff
linen collar and cuffs, broad-brimmed, plain hat and not a single jewel or ornament used for
mere decorative or esthetic value, realizes the vast difference in the types and character
of the two men. He is furnished with an appropriate mental atmosphere in which to follow their
history and in which to comprehend the inevitable clash that came between the Cavaliers and
the Roundheads. He will then eagerly and sympathetically follow the Pilgrims in their lonely
stay in Holland and in their brave struggle in the new country. Here, again, the various pictures
portray a land and climate as vigorous, uncompromising and stern as the characters of the Pilgrims
themselves. Then the great forests, the felling of the trees, the erection of the log houses
and forts, the meeting of Puritans with the neighboring Indians, with their curious costumes,
homes, customs and occupations, introduce other phases of life that put the child in a receptive
mood for the reading of colonial history, Indian legends and stories of pioneer life.

Familiarity with the author's portrait, with pictures of his home or his favorite scenes, brings
a something of the writer's personality to the child. He feels the story is told more directly
to him. A sympathetic bond is established that leads him to a more intimate and a more intelligent
acquaintance with the author's emotions, thoughts, style and purposes as expressed in his works.
He reads Thoreau's Journal, and notes uncomprehendingly, the potent sway of nature over the
heart and life of the man. It requires the keen vision and the genius of the artist to give
him a realization of the mesmeric influence nature frequently exerts.

If this author's portrait is the work of a great artist it will perform a double service. For
example, the reproduction of the Aesop of Velasquez not only gives the child an idea of the
appearance of that creator of the wonderful fables, but it also introduces the great Spanish
artist who has depicted marvelous interpretations of life on canvas and has so wonderfully
influenced the style and method of the work of many of the artists who succeeded him.

The world of literature is filled with poems and stories which emphasize abstract truths, teach
needed lessons or give universal principles of beauty. Many of these have been the subject
and the inspiration of pictures. And, in the re-telling of the poem or story with brush or
pen, the artists have added a something of their own individuality and character which serves
not only to emphasize and perpetuate themselves through their pictured translation of these
noble thoughts, but also makes the principles inculcated by the author become a part of the
child's moral creed.

All have long realized the value of pictures in connection with stories involving scientific
knowledge, but the co-operation of the artist with the author in presenting literature to children
is of equal importance. The picture arrests the interest of the child and wins his love for
books long before he can read; it arouses his desire to master the meaning of the printed forms,
that he may discover the story for himself; it gives him facts regarding unfamiliar things
without which knowledge the printed symbol means little; it leads him to the discovery of unseen
beauties in his environment; it develops his imagination; it arouses his creative faculties;
it aids him to grasp the deepest, highest meaning of the world's literature; it opens up the
undreamed beauties of the vast world of art; it interprets abstract thoughts until they become
a part of his character, and CHARACTER is the true end of all READING and of all EDUCATION.

III. On the Use of the Pictures in "Journeys"

Children love pictures, and they love to make them. We of riper years are inclined to forget
how very strong was our pictorial instinct when we were young. A little girl may make on a
sheet of paper a few irregular lines not very well connected, wholly meaningless to us, and
see in them very plainly every lineament of her favorite doll. She sees no lines, no paper,
only her own precious doll. A little later she will draw pictures to illustrate a story, and
while we may see nothing in her work, she sees enough to make the story more real, and is in
this way preparing herself to read more intelligently and with greater appreciation as she
grows older. We should not laugh at these crude drawings, nor try to make them better. They
express her ideas in her way, and that is enough. On the other hand, we should encourage her
to try other pictures for other stories till she learns herself to distrust her drawings, or
finds a way to express herself so that others may understand what she thinks and feels.

Pictures mean something, always. In the first place they show to him who can read them what
some one else has thought and felt. If they are meant to illustrate something in literature,
they may fail because the artist has not caught the spirit of what he is trying to depict,
or because he lacks in execution. On our side, they may fail because we cannot interpret his
work, either from lack of understanding or from the dullness of our sensibilities. Again, we
may object to the artist's interpretation of the literature, and his pictures may merely excite
our opposition. Usually, however, we see through the artist's eyes from a new point of view,
so that, even if we do not altogether approve what we see, we are led to question and find
for ourselves something new, pleasing and helpful.

Children are harsh critics, not only of pictures but of literature itself, and the critical
spirit is a good one to cultivate, if it is not allowed to fall into captious fault-finding.
On the whole, however, it is far better to point out the good things in a picture than to call
attention to poor execution or poor conception. Leave criticism generally to those infrequent
cases in which the artist has actually blundered because he has not read the selection closely
or accurately, or has been careless in the things he ought to know. For instance, it would
be absurd to show King Arthur in a modern dress suit, or to put fire-arms in the hands of the
Indians who met Columbus for the first time. But such faults occur infrequently. Usually the
pictures are careful studies, and give many a hint on costuming, manners and customs, as well
as on the proper surroundings of the characters.

Some selections are so universal in their nature, so freely applicable to all times and places,
that the artist may be allowed to delineate any people, anywhere, at any time. Nursery rhymes,
so often alluded to, lend themselves to an endless variety of imaginary people and places.
The old woman might be living still in her shoe and whipping her children soundly, in a twentieth-century
wrapper, or clothed in skins she might send them supperless to bed in pre-historic ages. Whether
Jack and Jill wore wooden shoes or patent-leather pumps we shall never really know; perhaps
their little feet were encased in moccasins, or they may have been bare and ornamented with
rings: what we do know is that Jack broke his crown and Jill came tumbling after.

So we will give the artists all the latitude they wish, as long as they keep the facts straight,
and we will try to help the children to see what the artist saw, and so get clearer visions
for themselves.

The pictures in these books are from many artists, all of whom have given an interpretation
of the selection they were working upon, and have given it in such a way as to be helpful and
inspiring to their youthful readers. Every time the artists have tried to get a child's view
of things and to draw so that a child will like their work. Their enthusiasm has been boundless,
and their execution remarkably good. Some of their pictures are gay, some are grave, a few
sad; some are highly imaginative and others very realistic. Not a few are wonderfully beautiful.
Among so many designs, so many kinds, everyone will find something to admire.

Among the many, let us take a few for a brief study to show that they may be used with children
to make literature clear, to give interest and keener appreciation.

The very first picture in Volume One (sub-title, Nursery Rhymes, page 1) is frankly intended
as an introduction to the rhymes which follow, and is also a good illustration of many of the
principles stated in this chapter.

The little boy is fond of his playthings and especially of his toy cat, but you see he is giving
his chief thought just now to the rhymes and jingles which his mother is repeating, while the
baby is absorbed and happy in looking at the pictures. Do you see the sewing-basket with the
knitting which the mother has laid aside while she devotes an hour to play? Do the other books
on the table suggest that she sets a value on good reading as an important element in the training
of children even as young as these in the picture? The idea is carried out further in the decorations
of the draperies around the window. You see there in simple outline characters which appear
in fuller detail with the rhymes which follow in this volume. The color tones are subdued and
restful, not loud and glaring, but they are so happily blended, or contrasted, that both persons
and objects are clear and distinct. It tells without words the story of happy childhood.

Jack and the Beanstalk (Volume One, page 159) is a picture which will repay study. A child's
imagination reaches out more or less vaguely, though often to his satisfaction, for a visualization
of the exaggerations of nature which appear in almost all fables and fairy tales. Our artist
has given this subject a realistic touch, which makes Jack's adventure seem almost possible.

Does the beanstalk look natural? Does it look like the beanstalk which grows in your garden?
Are the bean pods like those you have seen? Is the color natural? Does the stalk look strong
enough to bear Jack's weight? How high up do you think he must go to reach the giant's home?
How is the impression of height given? Do you see the landscape stretching away in the distance?
Do the fields and the stream look far away? Do you think Jack became frightened or dizzy as
he went on--up and up? Doesn't the picture help you to understand his courage and determination
to carry out his purpose?

Nurse helps me when I embark (Volume One page 127) is a fine picture for study. Ask questions
like the following: What toys do you see in the picture? Do boys like toys which suggest adventure?
Do you think he likes his small boat? Why? Did it suggest to his mind that he would call his
bed a boat, and sail away in it to dreamland? Is he saying his prayer? Will the small candle
give light enough? Why does it smoke? What kind of a bed is it? What is the canopy over the
bed made of? Interesting questions may be asked about the poem: What is a prudent sailor? What
do prudent sailors have to take on board? What is a pier? What is the pier beside which the
boy finds his vessel fast?

On page 262 of Volume One is printed Wynken, Blynken, and Nod, Eugene Field's musical lyric
for little ones. The attractive picture may be looked at before the poem is read. Questions
help the children more than explanations and comments, particularly where they are logically
asked. The natural order is to ask about the prominent things first, and then about minor details,
thus: How many children are there? Where are they? What does their boat look like? What is
the child nearest the toe of the shoes doing? Where are the other two standing? What have they
in their hands? What are they doing with the net? Are they catching any fish? Where is the
moon? What can you see in the moon? Is the face laughing? Now let us read the poem, and when
we have done so, let us see what lines in particular the artist was thinking about. Who are
the three children? "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod." What did they do? "Sailed off in a wooden shoe
... into a sea of dew." What did the moon say? "'Where are you going and what do you wish?'"
What did the children answer? "'We have come to fish for the herring fish.'" What kind of nets
have they? "Nets of silver and gold." What did the old moon do? "The old moon laughed and sang
a song." What were the herring fish? "The herring fish were the little stars." How long did
they fish? "All night long their nets they threw." Where did they throw their nets? "To the
stars in the twinkling foam." * * * * Were there really three little children? No. How many
were there? Only one. Who, then, were Wynken and Blynken? The little child's eyes. And who
was Nod? His head. What was the wooden shoe that sailed the skies? Only a trundle-bed. What
then was all this story about fishing from a wooden shoe for herring fish with nets of silver
and gold? Only a wee one's dream. How can you see the "wonderful sights that be"? By shutting
our eyes while mother sings. Don't you suppose the artist shut her eyes when she thought of
the picture, and perhaps dreamed of the time when she lay in her little bed and her mother
sang of the wonderful sights that be? Wasn't that just why she made such a beautiful picture,
and thought even of putting wings to the shoe, so it could sail through the sky? After such
a talk as that with a little child, do you not think, dear parent, that he would come nearer
to you, and while you read the poem softly and smoothly to him he would learn to like its music,
and through its refining influence learn to love you a little better? When he has grown to
manhood, do you not think there will come times when his heart will be touched, when he will
long for the loving arms around him and the sweet mother voice to sing once more of the wonderful
sights that be? There are holier things to be done for children than to feed and clothe them.

In Volume Two, on page 121 may be found the picture Shuffle-Shoon and Amber Locks. How many
persons are shown in the picture? How is the old man dressed? In what is he sitting? How is
the boy dressed? Where is he sitting? Can you sit comfortably that way? What does he hold in
his left hand? What is the little boy doing? How many blocks are there in his building? How
many blocks are on the floor? What is the old man placing on top of the blocks? What is on
the wall back of the chair? Of what is the curtain made? Which is Shuffle-Shoon? Why is he
called Shuffle-Shoon? Why is the boy called Amber-Locks? What is the color of amber? Do you
think the old man has a kind face? How old do you suppose he is? How old is Amber-Locks? Do
you like his face?

From Volume Two, page 264, Tom and The Dragon Fly: What is the first thing you notice when
you look at this picture? What is the second thing? Where is Tom standing? Where is the dragon-fly?
How many wings has it? How many legs can you see on the dragon-fly? Does Tom's hair look as
though he had just come from the water? What is he looking at? Does he seem to be afraid, or
happy? Can you tell where the surface of the water is? Is any part of Tom in the water? Can
you see sky or clouds in the picture? Does any land show?

From Volume Two, page 69, The Swallow and the Stork Came: After a picture has been examined,
as has been explained, it is sometimes a good thing to study the way in which the artist has
produced his effects. The effects in this picture are remarkably fine and Mr. Rudeen has accomplished
his purposes very skilfully. What effect is given by the mass of white in the center of the
picture? Does it help to give emphasis to the principal figures? Does the artist use his colors
in proper tones and shadings? Does he succeed in making the birds seem really to fly? Do you
see the face in the fir tree? How are the eyes indicated? Are the lines and patches that make
the face any different from those that indicate other leaves on the tree? Why then does it
look like a face? Does the face have an expression of surprise? If the branches and leaves
on the left side of the tree were curved downward instead of upward, would the expression be
changed? Is there any indication of feathers on the swallows? How are feathers indicated on
the stork? The artist drew the original of this picture with pen and black ink. The engraver
made one plate for this drawing in black, then another plate for those portions of the picture
which have any shade or tone of orange, and still another for the blue tones. The green is
produced by printing from the orange and the blue inks over the same surface. Facing page 82,
Volume Two is the portrait of Hans Christian Andersen. This was taken from a photograph, and
under a microscope it can be seen that the ink is put on in fine dots. The border was drawn
with pen and ink. The original photograph of Andersen was photographed through a screen and
reduced to the size you see it. The pictures in the book are printed from the metal plates
which put the ink on the paper in little dots. These prints are called halftones: the pen and
ink drawings in the texts are called zinc etchings. The original of the colored frontispiece
of the same volume was a water-color painting by Mr. Henderson. This was reduced in size by
photography and four plates were made, one showing all the black, and another all the red,
a third all the blue and a fourth all the yellow in the original. Then the paper was run through
the press four times, each time with the color of ink for which each plate was etched. By printing
one color over another this way, the different shades were made. No better way is known for
reproducing colored pictures. The border was drawn with pen and ink. The title page was drawn
with pen and ink and a zinc etching made by photographic process, from which an electrotype
plate was made. The end sheets are decorated by a zinc etching reduced from a large drawing
made by Mr. Mitchell. The title and ornaments on the back of the books are made from strong
brass dies that were engraved from drawings made by special artists. Gold leaf is laid over
the section to be lettered and the dies are pressed upon it with such force as to fasten the
gold upon the cover. Then the parts of the gold leaf that have not been pressed into the cover
are brushed away and the design is perfect.

To learn what a picture really contains, to appreciate its purpose and merit, we should study
it systematically. The following topics suggest themselves:

  1. The general view.
  2. The details.
  3. The center of interest.
  4. The purpose.
  5. The artists' conception and its appropriateness.
  6. Elements of beauty.

As in other cases, the best way to explain a method is to apply it. Accordingly, let us study
by this method the picture Down Tumbled Wheelbarrow, on page 46 of Volume One.

1. The general view. Here is a picture of a man wheeling his wife through a London street,
and the breaking down of his wheelbarrow.

2. The details. The man, and his wife sitting in the wheelbarrow; the cobbled street, the sidewalk,
the houses on one side of the street, the arch-way with the house above it, and the street
showing through the arch-way; the man in the distance. A shop in the middle ground, with fruit
and vegetables displayed outside the window. The man with the wheelbarrow is dressed in the
fashion of the past, with tall hat, blue cut-a-way long-tailed coat, black breeches and blue
stockings, white vest and white gloves. His neckerchief and shoes are orange color. His wife
is also fashionably gowned. Her bonnet has blue and orange feathers, she has an embroidered
shawl of orange color, with a blue overdress and a gray skirt; her blue parasol is in the air,
dropped in the shock of the breaking of the wheelbarrow. Her arms are extended in effort to
save herself. The wheel is bent under the barrow.

3. The center of interest. The center of interest of most pictures is found near the center
of the picture. It is plainly so in this picture; the man with the wheelbarrow, and his bride
engage our attention, while secondarily we note the rough cobbled pavement and the narrow street.

4. The purpose. The artist's intention is to show the dramatic moment when the wheelbarrow
broke, and the bride got the fall.

5. The artist's conception and its appropriateness. In choosing the line "Down Tumbled Wheelbarrow,"
the artist selected the moment which was the climax of the adventure, and in so doing he shows
the shock of surprise and alarm in the attitude and expression of both bride and groom as contrasted
with their very fine holiday costumes, which show how much care they had given to their preparation
for their wedding journey. The artist has not overlooked the opportunity to show us a typical
London street of the olden time, narrow and paved with cobble stones. The arch-way gives us
the assurance that the street was very narrow, so that the wheelbarrow had to go over the rough
cobbles. The conception seems appropriate and true to the story in the simple rhyme.

6. Elements of beauty. There are two main elements in this picture, which contribute to the
pleasure it gives us, aside from the story it tells. In the composition of the picture, the
artist has placed the main figures in the foreground and drawn them in full detail. Note the
contrast of the masses of black with the open spaces of white and light shadings. The walls
of the houses are indicated by few lines which are sufficient but which do not draw the eye
from the center. The rough street is skillfully indicated by a few deftly drawn round cobbles,
leaving the larger white space to give air and light to the central figures. The treatment
of color is the second element of beauty to be noticed. Not all the picture is colored; in
this class of illustration, the white spaces have the effect of giving background to the colors,
and bringing out their best values.

Another profitable study can be made on the full-page illustration that appears on page 159,
in Volume Five. Questions best induce interest in a picture, but the questions should be asked
systematically. The following is a model on the picture named above, Geraint hears Enid singing.

1. General view. How many men are in the picture? What do they appear to be doing? What is
the building at the right?

2. Details. Who is the man on horse-back? How is he dressed? What is hanging from a chain on
his breast? What is he looking at? What is the expression on his face? What is the color of
his horse? Have you ever seen a bridle and a harness like these in the picture? Do you think
the man loved his horse and took good care of him? Who is the man standing beside the horse?
How would you describe his garments? What has he in his right hand? What is its use, and what
does it signify? What does the gesture with his left hand indicate? What do you think of the
building on the right? Is it new or old? What seems to be growing on the walls? What does this
mean? What seems to be growing up between the stones of the pavement?

3. The center of interest. Are the men talking together? If so, why are they not looking at
each other? Does the attitude and expression of the man on the horse suggest an interesting
topic? (Tell the story in part, and read the lines covering this episode, page 156. Is the
center of interest now made clear?)

4. Purpose. What did the artist mean to do by means of this picture? Did he select an important
and interesting event in the story?

5. Conception and appropriateness. Has the artist followed the text truthfully in his conception?
Do you think there is a dramatic interest in this scene, which made it appropriate for illustration?
Would it have been as effective without the old man in the picture? Why? Does the man on the
horse show his character in his bearing? Has the artist succeeded in portraying the old man
in the character described in the text? Does the picture please you? Do you think it is a success?

6. Elements of beauty. Do you like the soft, even tones of the picture, the heavy touches of
the pen in the main figures and the light touches in the background? Is the day bright or gloomy?
Is the effect of light on the wall, balcony and doorway pleasing? From what direction does
the light come? How does the artist indicate surfaces in shadow? Does the outline of the castle
through the arch add interest and beauty to the picture?

After the children have been taught to observe properly, you have in the pictures numberless
interesting subjects for language exercises. A good, clear-cut description of a picture is
worth reading, and to write one means thought and study. The exercise may be varied by asking
the child to describe the picture before he has any knowledge of the subject and then asking
him to call his imagination into play and write a story to fit the picture. Later you may read
him the story the artist meant to illustrate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Besides the color plates and halftones which are found in their proper places in the several
volumes, the following pen and ink drawings are good examples of the kind of pictures that
best repay study:

  Volume I,    page  22.
  Volume I,    page  30.
  Volume I,    page  35.
  Volume I,    page  67.
  Volume I,    page 159.
  Volume I,    page 203.
  Volume I,    page 375.
  Volume I,    page 391.
  Volume II,   page 111.
  Volume II,   page 228.
  Volume II,   page 384.
  Volume III,  page 141.
  Volume III,  page 324.
  Volume IV,   page 452.
  Volume V,    page  97.
  Volume V,    page 253.
  Volume VI,   page 145.
  Volume VI,   page 361.
  Volume VII,  page 281.
  Volume VII,  page 439.
  Volume VIII, page 160.
  Volume VIII, page 321.
  Volume IX,   page 118.
  Volume IX,   page 248.

CHAPTER IV

TELLING STORIES

Before a child can read he develops a passion for stories, and nothing delights him more than
an interesting tale from the loving lips of father or mother. In good kindergartens and primary
schools, there are teachers who tell stories to the little ones and do it well, but parents
will not wish to delegate it entirely to teachers, for story-telling is the best way of getting
at the hearts of children and planting those germs which later grow into refined taste in reading
as well as ripen into real character. On the other hand, the teachers may neglect to tell stories
to their pupils or are not skilled either in selection or in manner of telling. Parents who
are interested in the welfare of their small boys and girls will wish to know what is being
done and how it is accomplished, but may have little idea of the material it is wise to use
or where to find good subjects for their tales.

Proper selection is highly important, for taste and appetite for certain kinds of literature
may be created long before the child can read for himself. Strong-minded, courageous little
boys will love to hear of giants and ogres, and will revel in adventures that may terrify their
more delicate sisters. George hates the fierce foes that Jack the Giant-Killer meets, and dreams
of the time when he can overpower and slay his own ogres. Alice listens tremblingly, and when
she goes to her little bed at night lies in fear and trembling, while hideous faces leer at
her from out the shadowed recesses. George never wearies of our oldest poem, Beowulf, while
Alice wants only Cinderella, or at most Bluebeard. It is nothing less than cruelty to fill
the imaginations of sensitive children with deeds of violence and tales of sadness and woe.
Yet it is no less true that some young folks are the better for their giants, their knights
and their battles. On the whole, it is wiser to keep the giants, the ogres and the suffering
people in the background, or to dwell upon them only when there seems a demand for them; later,
lead the young imaginations into the realms of history and real life where giants are very
real and ogres yet remain to be subdued. Do not tell sad or exciting stories in the evening.
Keep the quiet, peaceful things for bed-time stories.

Here, then, is the great opportunity for the parent. The teacher has thirty or more children
of as many different temperaments from homes as varied in culture as the children are different
in appearance, and to them she must tell her story as to one. The parent has but his own little
flock, whom he has known every day of their lives, and whose souls are as transparent as glass
to his watchful and sympathetic eye. How certain may he feel in his selection of material,
how powerful in his recital!

Perhaps, however, he may find the pleasant task an unaccustomed one, may have forgotten what
he knew as a boy, and may not know where to turn for material. Here these books come to his
assistance with material for every taste and suited to every occasion. In the beginning of
the first volume are the nursery rhymes which children have enjoyed for ages, which are read,
or far better told, to infants who rejoice in the pictures. Between the nursery rhymes and
the literature that follows is quite a gap, intentionally left by the editor. There are no
pretty little tales in words of one syllable for beginners to read, but there are good fables
and stories to be told while the children are learning to read, and later, to be read by the
young people themselves. No parent can go astray in selection if he knows his own children.

Do not be afraid to tell the story--reading it aloud will not be half so effective. Select
a fable or a short story first. Read it carefully, and then shut the book and think about it.
Be sure you have the plot in your mind, make the hero and the other characters seem very real
to yourself, picture the scenes vividly in your mind's eye, and you are ready to begin.

1. Use Your Own Words. Simple words, graphic, commonplace words, are the best. The older children
will be just as much entertained, and the younger ones can understand better. On the other
hand, do not talk down to their level; they will resent the idea and laugh at you. Keep on
their level. That means that you must be sure you know your audience before you begin to talk.

2. Talk Naturally. Forget that you are telling a story for the effect it will produce. Forget
yourself. Tell the story as you would tell them an incident you have just seen.

3. Look Your Children in the Eyes. Find the responsive eyes and get your inspiration from them;
seek out the dull and uninterested eyes and talk to them till they brighten up and respond
to your enthusiasm. Let every child know that many times you have looked him square in the
face and make everyone feel you are talking straight at him.

4. Supply Many Details. Children love them; their lives are made up of little things. Don't
think you are ignoring the real story by your additions. The details you give are probably
the very ones the author of the original story intended you to supply from your own imagination
as you read. Under this head comes the giving of names to characters; descriptions of clothes,
of facts, of feelings; the addition of new incidents.

The recital of a bare plot is not an interesting story. For instance: "A boy on his way to
school found a yellowbird's nest with four little birds in it," is the recitation of a bare
plot. Is it interesting? Would the story appeal to children? What do you think of the form
following?

"John told me an interesting story this morning. As he was coming to school today he saw a
little yellowbird fly from the bushes by the big tree at the corner of Mr. Brown's yard. He
parted the leaves and looked into the bush, but for quite a while he could see nothing. At
last, however, he spied a pretty little nest in the fork of a limb and so low that he could
look right down into it. John must have made some noise, because when he looked in he saw four
little, wide-open red mouths, and that was about all. Of course, there were little half-naked
bodies under the gaping mouths, but he couldn't see them, for each little bird was shaking
his head about, stretching it up higher and higher and opening his mouth wider and wider. You
see, to each little bird a rustling sound meant that the mother bird had come back with a bit
of tasty breakfast in her mouth. When the wee babies found that they had made a mistake they
closed their mouths, drew down their heads and packed themselves away so tightly that I'm sure
they can't be cold while their mother is away."

5. Be Intimate and Personal with Your Audience. Express your opinion now and then as your own;
interrupt the story occasionally (not often enough to spoil the interest) by asking for the
ideas of the children. Let them guess, sometimes, at the outcome of the story. Make them feel
that they are an important part of the exercise. Sometimes they will help you wonderfully.

6. Use Direct Discourse Wherever Possible. Make your characters speak in their own words. Say,
"John said, 'I saw the nest,'" rather than, "John said that he saw the nest."

7. Keep the Climax Out of Sight as Long as Possible. Curiosity is a large factor in interest,
and if the children know "how the story is coming out" you are liable to lose their attention.
However, you will find that some stories will prove such favorites to young children that they
will call for the tales again and again. Occasionally small children are very particular about
the way in which a story is repeated--there must be no deviations from the way in which it
was first told. You may congratulate yourself on having told the story well, if the children
ask for its repetition; and if they criticise your second telling you may know you did very
well in your first attempt.

8. Be Enthusiastic; Be Dramatic. Throw yourself into the tale; see what you are describing;
feel what your characters feel, and enjoy the story itself. Speak distinctly; use clear, sympathetic
tones; speak slowly or rapidly as the action demands, and use pauses effectively. Don't be
in a hurry. See that your face expresses your feelings, that your attitudes are easy and your
gestures appropriate and graceful. Act your part.

9. Do not Preach. Tell the story so the moral, if there is any, may be seen and felt without
your striving to point it out.

10. Talk the Story Over Freely with Your Children. Try to get their ideas, rather than to give
your own. You can tell whether you have succeeded and what your faults in narration have been.

The Fairies of the Caldon-Low

The difference between poetry and prose may be shown in rather a startling manner with such
a selection as The Fairies of the Caldon-Low (Volume II, page 395). Children like Mary Howitt's
little narrative, but what does it really say? Let us put it in plain prose and see!

"Where have you been, Mary?"

"I've been to the top of Caldon-Low to see the midsummer night."

"What did you see?"

"I saw the sunshine come down and the winds blow."

"What did you hear?"

"I heard the water-drops made and the ears of corn fill."

"Tell me everything, Mary, for you must have seen the fairies."

"Then take me on your knee, mother, and listen. Last night a hundred fairies danced on lively
feet to the merry music of nine harpers, but the merriest thing was the sound of the fairy talk."

"What did you hear them say?"

"I'll tell you, but let me do it in my own way. Some rolled water down the hill and said, 'this
will turn the poor old miller's wheel, and a busy man he will be by morning. There has been
no rain since the first of May, and how the jolly old miller will laugh till the tears fill
his eyes when he sees the water rise in the milldam.' And some seized the winds and put horns
to their mouths and blew sharply. 'And there!' said they shrilly, 'the merry winds go from
every horn to clear the damp mildew from the blind old widow's corn. Though she has been blind
for a long time she'll be merry enough when the corn stands up stiff and strong without any
mildew!' Then some brought flax seed and flung it down, saying, 'by sunrise this will be growing
in the weaver's field, and how the poor lame fellow will laugh when he sees his vacant field
filled with blue flax flowers in a single day.' Then a brownie with a long beard spoke, 'I
have spun all the tow and I want more. I have spun a linen sheet for Mary's bed and an apron
for her mother.' I couldn't help but laugh out loud, and then I was alone. But as I came down
I heard the jolly miller laughing and his wheel going merrily. I peeped into the widow's cornfield
and, sure enough, the golden corn was free from mildew, and at the gate of the croft stood
the weaver, whose eye told the good news about his flax field. Now that's all I heard and all
I saw, so please make my bed, mother, for I'm as tired as I can be."

Rather a pretty story, even in plain prose, is it not? It is re-written just about as it would
be told to a little child for the first time, a child interested in the good fairies who do
good things for the poor and the suffering. Then a little later, when the child reads for himself
he can see how much better Mary Howitt tells the story in verse. Nevertheless, some children
will prefer it in prose and often may ask to have other poems "told in prose." There is no
reason for refusing. Story first, poem afterward, is a good rule to follow if you want to create
a taste for poetry. Sometimes just a remark, "Let us see how this sounds in poetry," will create
enough interest to enable the parent to begin reading aloud to an attentive audience. Most
children will not learn to like poetry if left to their own devices. It must be read aloud
to them and its beauties pointed out occasionally to create a love for so artificial a thing
as metrical composition.

Parents will find in the General Index at the end of this volume not only reference to the
contents of Journeys by title and author, but also a classification of subject matter, so that
it will be easy to find different examples of poetry,--lyric, ballad, sonnet,--and of prose,--fiction,
adventure, history, etc., offering a wide range of selection for story-telling purposes.

Little Giffin of Tennessee

This little narrative poem (Volume IV, page 461), is intensely dramatic. Too abrupt in style
for easy reading and filled with words the children may not understand, it is not well adapted
to the very young. But there's a story in it of courage and deep patriotism that will be an
inspiration to every child who can hear it. What better subject can a parent find for his son's
encouragement than a tale told in his own words or read in the following?

Little Giffin of Tennessee was only a boy, only a boy of sixteen, not bigger nor stronger than
Charlie, Thomas or George Jones whom you see going by to school every day. Yet he wasn't running
along bareheaded carrying a bat or swinging his books by a strap. Little Giffin was a poor
wounded soldier boy who had been already in eighteen battles; more than one, you see, for every
year of his short life.

In the last terrible charge, a grape shot had struck him in the leg and arm and torn the flesh
from his broken bones. Over him his comrades swept up to the face of the enemy's guns, and
little Giffin was left to fight his battle with cold, and rain and hunger. All night long he
lay moaning on the ground, and it was late in the forenoon of the next day when he was found
and taken to the hospital.

There they laid his mangled body among the hundreds of others who had met with a fate as hard
as his own. It was hours before the surgeons could come to him, and then so hurried were they
by other calls upon them that only a hasty dressing of his poisoned wound was possible.

Some kindly visitors found him there, his fair young face flushed with the deadly fever, and
begged the surgeons to do something for him.

"We can do nothing," they said. "Our hands are full. His case is hopeless. We must help where
it will do some good."

"But may we take him with us? May we see what we can do for him? Perhaps we can find a doctor
who can cure him."

"Take him and welcome," the surgeon replied. "But you can find no doctor who can save the dead.
Little Giffin can never get well."

But the good people lifted the broken form and carried it out from the hospital's deadly air,
into the golden sunshine and away to a clean little cot in a humble home where a good doctor
treated him and a kind motherly nurse hung over him and soothed his feverish brain for many
a weary hour. For days it seemed that every breath would be his last and for months his sufferings
wrung the hearts of his friends.

But at last there came a day when he could sit up a little, and then for weeks he hobbled about,
an almost helpless cripple with a rude crutch for his only support.

But his new friends had known that he would get well, for even during the days of burning fever
and the weeks of weary recovery his heart had been filled with courage and his steel blue eye
had glinted with a dauntless spirit that would not die.

The crippled right arm and mangled fingers were slow in healing and nearly useless when the
wounds were closed and only ugly scars remained. In spite of all, though, he learned again
to write, and you can imagine that the first letter, in its scraggly writing, began, "My Dearest
Mother," and the next, "Dear Captain."

Mother's answer came first and brought warmth and love to the heart of the brave little cripple
who dreamed now only of home--home, which he had not dared hope to see again. But then the
Captain's letter came:

"Dear Giffin:

"Your letter reached me tonight. God bless you, my boy. I thought you were gone with the others.
Of the eighty-five who made that fatal charge only you and I are now alive. They say that Johnston
is hard pressed and needs every man----"

Little Giffin never finished reading the letter. He was up and ready to start away to the front,
to his Captain and to Johnston.

"Johnston needs every man," he said, as the first tears he had shed came to his brave blue
eyes. "He needs every man and I'll be some help. I'll write to you, if I'm spared. Good bye.
God bless you, kindest of friends."

He was gone. Long his friends waited for word from Giffin, little Giffin of Tennessee. But
there came only the news of a terrible battle with Johnston, where indeed every man was needed.

And little Giffin? Little Giffin never wrote.

But I'd rather have one loyal Giffin, in a nameless grave on a southern battle field, than
all the cowardly men who would fawn around me if I were a king.

Now I'll read you a little poem which tells better than I can the story of brave little Giffin
of Tennessee.

The Ballad of Agincourt

By telling the story and giving some explanation of difficult terms, we are often able to create
an interest in poems that would otherwise remain unread. The best of old English ballads are
so full of martial spirit that they may well prove an inspiration to many a boy in these days
when war has so recently rent the whole world and proved the courage of our own young men.
Back of the action that brought bloodshed and suffering is a spirit of loyalty, a genuine patriotism
that is as much needed now as when it animated the souls of the British soldiery in those days
of long ago. It is part of our inheritance, and may not be forgotten. It is to be hoped that
we may never need it again amid the smoke and carnage of the battlefield, or in the silent
horror of the trenches, but we have each for himself conflicts to wage with foes more insidious
than the armed forces of rival nations, and we can win them only by the same spirit of devotion
that brought victory at Agincourt. The Ballad of Agincourt (Volume V, page 95), is followed
by notes that make clear its historical setting, but a few comments may help to a better appreciation
of the inspirational value of the selection.

It is natural that in verses written about three hundred years ago there should be found some
crudities in style, some lapses in syntax, and not a few words strange to us or having a meaning
somewhat different from their present significance. Among such lapses in syntax we find the
slight confusion of tenses in the first stanza, caused in the poet's mind by the necessity
of making a rhyme for France, though this might have been obviated by writing "stands" for
"stood" and using the present tense throughout. The necessities of rhyme troubled Drayton not
a little: he must pronounce "Agincourt" as it is written to rhyme with "sort," which, by the
way, is not a perfect rhyme for "fort" in the sixth stanza, and "great" does not rhyme with
"seat" nor "feat"; in the seventh, "rear," "there" and "were" do not rhyme; other instances
are easily found. Of words not now familiar, or used in an unfamiliar sense, the following
are examples: We do not frequently speak of the wind "standing" in a certain direction; we
do not often "advance" our sails nor "prove" our chance; "vaward" and "bilboes" are old words;
"ding" in the sense used here has long been forgotten; of "archery" except as a sport we know
nothing; "Spanish yew" is no longer valuable for bows, and few can tell how long a "clothyard"
(the English ell, 45 inches long) is, or whether it differs from any other "yard" as a measure
of length.

If the things just mentioned are defects they are of little moment and add to the quaintness
of the verses without detracting from their force. Anyone who reads for inspiration and for
his own betterment puts aside the critical spirit, places himself in the position of the writer,
harmonizes thoughts and reads for the message without much concern for the medium. But there
are force, action, rhythm, clearness and beauty in this old ballad. Let us see what we can
find without carrying analysis to the point where it destroys the spirit. All we need is an
understanding of the meaning of the sentences and an expressive reading aloud. The former,
we can supply here, the latter the reader must contribute. Poetry must be read aloud to be
appreciated by any but those who can listen to their thoughts and hear the words their eyes
garner from the printed page. Such readers are few.

Here is the paraphrase that makes the meaning clear.

With a wind blowing straight for France the English soldiery spread their sails to try one
more campaign against their ancient enemies. Crossing the open sea they landed at the mouth
of the Seine river, following King Henry and his noble courtiers.

There was fighting all the way, and many a strongly garrisoned fort was taken, to the joy of
all the English. Every day had its skirmish with the French, who stoutly defended the way to
Agincourt where lay their commander with all his great army of fifty thousand men. Here the
Frenchman sent to King Henry the sarcastic message: "You are going to your doom. Better get
your ransom ready before you advance further." To this insult the English king made no answer,
but an angry smile that foreshadowed the fall of his vile opponents flashed from his eyes.

Turning to his men, however, the brave king spoke: "Don't be alarmed if they do outnumber us
ten to one. We have begun nobly. Battles so bravely won as these we have fought, have always
been lauded to the skies. Your fame shall never die. And as for myself, this is my task. I
shall not ask England to mourn for me nor to praise me. If I am not victor here, or if I am
slain, never shall she be asked for one penny to redeem me. From the great battles of Poitiers
and Cressy we learn that when the French were the most swollen with pride they fell beneath
our swords. Our skill is none the less than that of those who fought under our great grandsire
when he defeated the French and cut their national emblems to the ground."

What a battle array it was! The vanguard was led by the dread Duke of York; the king himself
in the midst of his brave guards sped in the center with the main body of the troops, while
the valiant rearguard was captained by Excester, courageous as any man in the great army.

And now the fight begins! Armour on armour shines; drum now to drum does groan,--to hear is
wonder; that, with the cries they make, shakes the very earth; trumpet to trumpet speaks, thunder
to thunder.

From the ambuscade of our hidden forces the noble Erpingham gives the signal for the English
archers to fire. Now like a storm the cloth-yard-long arrows sped by the strong bows of Spanish
yew strike the French horses, stinging them like serpents through the withers. Every bowman
stands to his place, not one deserting; every true English heart rejoices in the slaughter.

Down go the bows when the arrows are shot, out spring the great swords, as the English fly
on the French, not one laggard in the company; straight from their shoulders spring the blows
that cleave the heads of the French peasants and drop them in the dust of trampling feet.

Meantime the noble king, brandishing his broad-sword, dashes along the French line as though
to overwhelm it with his mighty blows, while many a wound sheds blood on his arms and many
a cruel dint sinks into his helmet.

The good duke Glo'ster, next of the royal blood, fights side by side with his brave brother,
and the youthful Clarence in this almost the first of his battles fights as furiously as any
experienced knight; Warwick wades in blood, and Oxford adds to the cruel slaughter of the foe.
Suffolk plies his axe manfully while Beaumont, Willoughby, Ferrers and Fanhope, names for the
English to conjure with, bear themselves as bravely.

Hervé Riel

Let us take, as a final example, Browning's poem Hervé Riel (Volume VIII, page 168). We will
set about the preparation of it together. First we will read the note and then the poem. *
* * It is a stirring thing, a noble monument to a noble man. It is worth the telling. We will
read through it again and mark the passages that contain the incidents that make the story,
so that we may not have to hesitate for ideas after we begin to talk. * * * Really, the plot
is more simple than we thought. It is merely this: "The French fleet, defeated by the English,
arrives off the harbor of Saint Halo. They call for pilots, but none will try to conduct the
big ships through the dangerous channel, and the captains decide to wreck and burn their ships,
so the English may not capture them. Just at this time a simple Breton sailor offers to pilot
the vessels through, under penalty of death. The commander puts him in charge of the fleet
and he takes them safely into the harbor. The English arrive just too late to do any damage,
and the French commander, grateful to his deliverer, offers him any reward he may wish. The
Breton laughs and asks for one day's leave to go and visit his wife who lives near by."

Let us consider the persons. Evidently Hervé Riel is the only one we need mention by name.
We could give him a simpler name, but if the story is true, everyone ought to remember him.
We must try to make him seem alive. We must make his deed seem great and must make a point
of his patriotic devotion and of his beautiful love for his wife.

Now we are ready to talk, as soon as we have thought a little and assured ourselves that we
are in the right spirit. So, facing our audience of small children, we begin:

I've just been reading Hervé Riel, a story that I like so much I must tell it to you. A long
time ago, before there was a (name your town), really before there was a United States, there
was a long war across the ocean between the great nations, England and France. There had been
a bloody battle between their navies, and the French had been beaten. Still twenty-two of their
ships escaped, sailed to their own country and arrived outside the harbor of Saint Malo. But
they were not safe, by any means. The English were close behind and could soon overtake and
capture or destroy all the French vessels, and put to death many of their crews. Inside the
harbor the French knew they would be safe, for no English vessel could get through the long,
crooked channels without a pilot, and no Frenchman would lead the English.

Without even waiting to anchor, the captains made signals for pilots and many skilled ones
came off to the ships. When the pilots heard that the French were crippled and must get into
the harbor they laughed at the captains.

"Go through there now?" they said. "Why, you can't do it. Don't you see it's low tide and the
rocks are showing everywhere? The channel is crooked and very dangerous at high water and now
you could not get your smallest ship through safely, let alone such a large ship as the Formidable
here, with her ninety-two big guns. It can't be done."

Nothing could change the minds of the pilots. They knew their business thoroughly. So the captains
met to decide what they should do. The commander addressed them, saying:

"The English are at our heels. What shall we do? Do you want them to tow us all, one behind
the other, back to their country to become their prizes? Not I. Better run all the ships aground,
set fire to them, and escape ourselves if we can."

The brave captains all looked at their commander. Every man shut his teeth together, set his
brows, and with flashing eyes said, "Speak the word; we will obey."

But the commander never gave his order! Right into the excited group stepped a man; not a captain,
not even a second mate; just a plain, simple sailor who lived near Saint Malo. He had not even
joined the fleet of his own will, but had been seized and carried on board long before the
battle, because the navy was short of sailors. You might think he would want revenge for being
taken away from his home and his fishing. Did he? At first he was too much excited to speak,
but in a moment he stormed out:

"What's the matter with you pilots? Are you mad, or fools, or cowards, or have the English
bought you body and soul? Don't talk to me of rock and shallow places and crooked channels!
Haven't I sailed these waters for years, and don't I know every shallow place, every dangerous
turn, every inch of the way? You cowards! There's a way through, I tell you."

Then Hervé Riel turned to the commander and shouted, "Put me in charge of this ship, the biggest,
this Formidable, and I'll steer her through. Make the others follow me closely. They'll all
come safely in. Try me; I'll do it. I haven't much to offer for the chance, but if this ship
so much as touches her keel on a hidden rock, you may cut off my head. Let me try, sir."

The commander replied, "We have not a second to spare. You're admiral here! Take the helm and
lead us through!"

Hervé Riel was as prompt as the commander, and seizing the tiller, he soon had the great ship
sailing along under perfect control. She went into the narrow channel, with the great rocks
high on both sides. The waves beat up angrily and the breakers threw their spray high over
the decks. With eyes fixed on the channel and both hands on the helm, he guided the staunch
vessel on the winding course. Time and again it seemed as though she must be wrecked, but just
at the moment of greatest danger Hervé Riel shifted the helm, and the stately ship moved safely
on. With hearts beating high, the officers watched the wonderful deed, and the frightened sailors
clung speechless to the rail. Finally, between two great rocks that seemed to block the channel
completely, the ship sailed majestically into the harbor, and Hervé Riel had kept his promise.
Not once had the great Formidable touched her keel to a rock; not a scratch, except the battle
scars, marred her fair sides.

After her, one by one, came the other ships of the squadron, till all were anchored safely
in the harbor. Just as the last ship came to anchor, the English fleet, coming up in helpless
anger, began to throw shells across the passage. The French, however, were out of range and
could laugh at the fruitless attempts of their enemy. With one voice the captains and sailors
of the rescued fleet shouted, "Hervé Riel! Hervé Riel! Now, let the king of France reward the
man who has saved his fleet!"

And what of the brave sailor? He stood calm and quiet without a gleam of pride in his frank
blue eyes. Just the same man as he was before his gallant deed, he answered the commander's
call and stood before him.

"My friend," began the commander, "I can scarcely speak, but you know praise comes from the
heart and not from the lips. You have saved the fleet from certain destruction and have preserved
the lives of many of your countrymen. No reward is too great for you. Ask what you will and
it shall be granted."

Hervé Riel's blue eyes danced with merriment as he said, "Now that my work is over I would
like, if I may have it, one whole day to visit my wife, whom I call 'Beautiful Aurora,' and
who lives just a little way from Saint Malo. That is all I want. May I go?"

You can imagine whether or not his request was granted.

Now, do you know, that brave act was forgotten; Hervé Riel was forgotten for many centuries.
No monument was erected to his memory; there seemed nothing to keep the patriotic man alive
in the hearts of his countrymen. But one day, not so many years ago, Robert Browning, the great
English poet, heard the story, and he was so moved by the heroic deed and the quiet humor of
the man, that he wrote a fine, manly poem and called it Hervé Riel, so that it should remain
as a monument to the patriotism and character of the simple French sailor.

If the children are older and studying history, we would give more of an idea of the place,
and of the occasion and show what the effect of saving the ship really was. The poem is an
excellent one, but most children do not care for it till they have heard the story and have
studied the text. Then they are delighted with it and will read it again and again. It has
been many years since the writer of this first read Hervé Riel, but he has never wearied of
it and cannot read it now without a thrill of admiration for the hero and for Browning's monument.

When you tell the story, do not try to tell it as this has been told. Use your words, select
for emphasis the parts that appeal to you and give the children just the ideas that you have
conceived.

Other classics that will make just as good subjects for story telling are in every volume of
Journeys. The following list contains only a few of them. By adapting them to the age of the
young listeners, almost any of them may be made suitable for almost any age:

  Volume I,   page  79. Little Red Riding Hood.
  Volume I,   page 101. Silver Locks and the Three Bears.
  Volume I,   page 134. The Dog in the Manger.
  Volume I,   page 431. Baucis and Philemon.
  Volume I,   page 456. The Story of Joseph.
  Volume II,  page 111. The Punishment of Loki.
  Volume II,  page 448. The Story of Esther.
  Volume II,  page 387. What the Old Man Does Is Always Right.
  Volume III, page 436. Robin Hood.
  Volume IV,  page 192. The Pine-Tree Shillings.
  Volume IV,  page 274. David.
  Volume IV,  page 383. The Wooden Horse.
  Volume V,   page 130. Balin and Balan.
  Volume V,   page 237. The Passing of Arthur.
  Volume VI,  page 143. Ruth.

CHAPTER V

READING AND THE BUILDING OF CHARACTER

I

The influences which unite to make character are so numerous, subtle and complex that it is
next to impossible to detect them or to classify them in order of importance. Not only is this
true of the aggregate, but it is true of the individual. It is doubtful if any person in middle
life can tell just what he is or just how he became himself. He is aware of some great influences
that have exerted their power over him at certain crises in his life, but the little things
which, taken together, have done more to form and fix his character are often unrecognized
or undervalued. Fortunately, at this time we need to give attention to only one phase of the
great question.

Character is the one important thing. Great as is the value of book education, of practical
power and of good health, still greater is the importance of sound, wholesome character; and,
consciously or unconsciously, intentionally or unintentionally, the teacher and the parent
are incessantly at work building the characters of the young people placed in their charge.
Most of us, too, are working toward right ends as conscientiously as possible. Yet often we
grow faint-hearted, or are puzzled to know what we can do to help the children and how we can
do it most effectively.

That the influence of reading on character is one of the most powerful is granted by every
high-minded person who has written or spoken upon the subject. Really, it is not an influence,
but a series of influences, wide, complex, far-reaching. The extended range of subjects, the
infinite variety in style, the unlimited shades in sentiment to be found in literature make
its presence influential everywhere and always. In reading there is comfort for the sorrowing,
companionship for the lonely, encouragement for the downcast, entertainment for the leisurely,
inspiration for the sluggish. Gentle, pervasive, almost unnoticed, yet stronger than iron bands,
is the power of literature over us. We are what we read.

If such be the case, then there need be no argument concerning the importance of suitable reading
matter for the young. To leave a child wholly to his own inclinations in reading is as absurd
as to send him to take honey from a swarm of angry bees and not expect him to be stung. Inevitably,
he will be injured, and that seriously. To supply him with honey, all that he wants, at all
times and without exertion to himself, is to clog his taste and destroy his appetite. We must
see that he is led to look for the sweet, taught to recognize it when he finds it, and to extract
it from the comb. He will enjoy working to get it. On the other hand, he must not be sent where
his reward is too difficult to find and secure, lest he become discouraged and cease to work.

School readers furnish much excellent material for reading; in the majority of schools there
is furnished more or less of supplementary reading which is quite as good as that in the text-books
and which will have the merit of novelty and exclusiveness. Yet, in spite of this, parents
and teachers are continually finding themselves at a loss for fresh and inspiring things for
special occasions. All these may be had from Journeys Through Bookland and to assist in finding
them and in using them after found the following has been written.

II

Character is made up of a great variety of traits; some of the mind, some of the heart, some
of the soul. That is, what we are is composed of what we know, what we feel and what we believe.
In response to those things we act; we govern ourselves in respect to ourselves and in respect
to others.

The grave responsibility that rests upon parents and teachers is to encourage those traits
which make for noble manhood and womanhood and to correct or eradicate as far as possible those
which are bad in themselves or which help to neutralize or destroy the good ones.

Much may be accomplished by correct teaching of good principles, but human nature is such that
people learn even more through indirection than through instruction. By means of the study
of literature the best direct instruction may be given, and wholesome lessons may be taught
abundantly in that charming way which accomplishes its purpose without a recognition on the
part of the readers that they are being taught. The force and persistence of a good lesson
of the latter kind cannot be estimated. It may be years before it exhausts itself, and its
effect may be revolutionary.

The wise instructor, though she does not make known all her plans, works systematically. That
is, having learned that a child is lacking in some respect, such as a knowledge of what constitutes
good character, or in certain desirable traits of character, or possesses some characteristics
that should be changed, she proceeds slowly and persistently to bring about the results she
desires.

III

In Journeys Through Bookland the mother will find much to assist her. The influence of nearly
all the selections will be for the betterment of character, will tend to make better men and
women of the children. But when she is looking for some direct help, for something to produce
a certain definite result, she will study the books carefully and select the things which are
most effective. To help her in her selection we have prepared the following outline. It does
not contain everything of value, but it is sufficiently comprehensive for its purpose, and
will save much time for anyone.

Now let us not be unwise in teaching these things. Let us be satisfied if we secure the interest
of the pupils in the selection and get from them the smile of approval, the look of guilt,
the slight indication of a determination to profit by the lesson. Many times we will refrain
from comment lest we spoil the effect of something much finer, more inspiring than anything
we can say ourselves.

The things we have chosen for their direct influence on the growing character of children will
be grouped by subject in three general classes:

A. The selections in this group are calculated to set children to thinking properly about some
serious subjects. While not as important as some others may be in the formation of character,
they are yet of no small consequence.

1. Wisdom, ignorance, keenness, wit, etc., in some of their many phases are shown in the fables
and the brief poem listed here:

  The Ass in the Lion's Skin, Volume I, page 65.
  The Fox and the Stork, I, 73.
  The Fox and the Grapes, I, 135.
  The Bat and the Two Weasels, I, 154.
  The Horse and the Stag, I, 338.
  The Fox, the Wolf and the Horse, I, 377.
  The Bald Knight, I, 385.
  The Wolf and the Lamb, I, 455.
  Minerva and the Owl, II, 7.
  The Country Squire, VI, 474. (To ridicule ignorance but not the
  ignorant person is sometimes a valuable means of inciting a love for
  knowledge.)

2. The importance of attention to little things is inculcated in the following:

  The Lion and the Mouse, Volume I, page 75.
  The Reaper and the Flowers, I, 410.
  The Daffodils, VII, 1.
  The Petrified Fern, VII, 77.

3. The following will help to create habits of promptness, industry and perseverance:

  Time to Rise, Volume I, page 340.
  The Hare and the Tortoise, I, 71.
  The Lark and Her Young Ones, I, 131.
  Industry and Sloth, I, 300.
  Whittington and His Cat, I, 442.
  Tom, the Water Baby, II, 215.
  The Village Blacksmith, IV, 86.
  Bruce and the Spider, V, 314.

4. These show the sterling worth of independence and the real equality of man:

  The Village Blacksmith, Volume IV, page 86.
  For A' That and A' That, VII, 149.

5. Courage and bravery are shown to be admirable and cowardice is made shameful in these selections:

  The Boy and the Nettle, Volume I, page 65.
  The Mice and the Cat, I, 197.

6. The evil of conceit and overweening self-esteem may be shown emphatically by the use of
such selections as these:

  The Gnat and the Bull, Volume I, page 70.
  The Cock and the Horses, I, 146.
  The Pea Blossom, I, 205.
  The Sparrow and the Eagle, II, 8.
  The Milkmaid, II, 374.

7. Flattery as a vice is made to seem unworthy, and its victim ridiculous in the two selections
following:

  The Fox and the Crow, Volume I, page 64.
  The Spider and the Fly, III, 19.

B. Our character is largely made up of our feelings and emotions. Reason takes us in hand and
tells us right from wrong, but we must feel before we can act. To cultivate right feeling,
laudable emotions; to make one wish to do and hence will to do is perhaps the greatest function
of real literature, that is the literature of beauty and of inspiration. Our collection is
rich in this direction and to find material for lessons is an easy task. Yet not everyone has
the time to find, classify and use everything; hence the following lists.

Before giving them, however, a word of caution is necessary. Remember that these selections
are not all suitable for children of every age. Some that will delight the little children
and stimulate them to enthusiastic efforts to do right, will not appeal to older ones. Moreover,
the natural bent of a child's mind, the associations he has formed, his home surroundings,
and his present character will all need to be considered before making choice of the subject
matter. As for the manner of presentation, enough will be found in the studies in Journeys
Through Bookland and in other parts of this volume safely to guide the young and inexperienced.

1. The influences of home and family are the greatest that come into the lives of most children.
Love of home, of parents, of brothers and sisters, of children, are the perfectly natural things
of existence. Yet often the ties are weak; not infrequently are they broken. Children drift
away from the restraining and helpful influence of their parents, and families disintegrate.
The results are bad. By properly teaching such selections as the following, much may be done
to correct the evil and to intensify the highest, holiest emotions of mankind:

  The Rock-a-by Lady, Volume I, page 94.
  Little Birdie, I, 142.
  Sleep, Baby, Sleep, I, 204.
  Old Gaelic Lullaby, I, 203.
  Lady Button-Eyes, I, 366.
  The First Snowfall, II, 403.
  Rain on the Roof, IV, 7.
  Pictures of Memory, IV, 127.
  Bernardo del Carpio, IV, 270.
  Rab and his Friends, VI, 99.
  Childhood, VI, 124.
  Home, Sweet Home, VI, 221.
  Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead, VI, 231.
  A Christmas Carol, VI, 244.
  To My Infant Son, VI, 478.
  The Old Oaken Bucket, VII, 11.
  My Old Kentucky Home, VII, 179.
  The Forsaken Merman, VII, 180.
  Tom and Maggie Tulliver, VII, 186.
  The Family of Michael Arout, VII, 314.
  On Receipt of My Mother's Picture, VII, 331.
  Extract from Snowbound, VII, 388.
  The Cotter's Saturday Night, VIII, 319.
  Dream Children, VIII, 335.

2. Honesty and truthfulness are cardinal virtues; they are the foundation of every strong character.
Teach these selections and note their effect:

  The Shepherd Boy and the Wolves, Volume I, page 92.
  The Falcon and the Partridge, II, 6.
  The Pied Piper of Hamelin, III, 384.
  The Cubes of Truth, VII, 406.

3. Friendliness, kindness, consideration of others, charity and love are a group of strong
characteristics which are admirably shown in the following:

  The Two Travelers, Volume I, page 109.
  Cinderella, I, 224.
  Baucis and Philemon, I, 431.
  The Snow Queen, II, 124.
  The King of the Golden River, II, 405.
  Auld Lang Syne, VI, 228.
  A Christmas Carol, VI, 244.
  Florence Nightingale, IX, 13.

4. Generosity is admirable; selfishness is despicable. Prove the facts by these:

  The Two Travelers, Volume I, page 109.
  The Two Travelers and the Oyster, I, 111.
  The Cat and the Chestnuts, I, 142.
  Baucis and Philemon, I, 431.

5. Kindness to animals is next to kindness and sympathy for human beings. It is best inculcated
by teaching the beauty and loveliness of animals, their value to man and their dependence upon
him. The following will help:

  The Boys and the Frogs, Volume I, page 63.
  The Brown Thrush, I, 147.
  Mercy to Animals, I, 413.
  The Ugly Duckling, I, 414.
  Tom, the Water Baby, II, 215.
  Who Stole the Bird's Nest? II, 399.
  A Dog of Flanders, IV, 93.
  Rab and His Friends, VI, 99.
  The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, VII, 29.

6. Patience and gentleness seem charming in these selections:

  The Wind and the Sun, Volume I, page 95.
  Cinderella, I, 224.
  Rab and His Friends, VI, 99.

7. Faithfulness is a virtue. We admire it in:

  Something, Volume I, page 395.
  Whittington and His Cat, I, 442.
  The Mirror of Matsuyana, II, 36.
  The Snow Queen, II, 124.
  Casabianca, VIII, 313.

8. That envy and covetousness are unpleasing and unprofitable are shown by these:

  The Dog and His Shadow, Volume I, page 63.
  The Frog Who Wished to Be as Big as an Ox, I, 66.
  The Golden Touch, II, 43.

9. Contentment, peacefulness, hopefulness are made very attractive in the following:

  The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse, Volume I, page 199.
  The Pea Blossom, I, 205.
  The Flax, I, 378.
  The Discontented Stone Cutter, II, 12.
  The Fir Tree, II, 68.
  The Blind Lassie, VI, 120.
  Pippa Passes, IX, 293.

C. We have grouped together here two classes of selections which inculcate patriotism or devotion
to one's fatherland and devotion to God. How admirable the selections are! You have only to
read them to see:

1. Patriotism:

  Holger Danske, Volume II, 377.
  Incident of the French Camp, IV, 174.
  The American Flag, V, 396.
  Battle Hymn of the Republic, V, 399.
  Stonewall Jackson's Way, V, 400.
  Horatius, VI, 1.
  Bannockburn, VII, 15.
  Breathes There The Man, VII, 151.
  How Sleep the Brave, VII, 151.
  Make Way for Liberty, VII, 172.
  The Old Continentals, VII, 175.
  America, VIII, 60.
  The Battle of Thermopylae, VIII, 81.
  The Fall of the Alamo, VIII, 141.
  Hervé Riel, VIII, 168.
  The Battle of Trafalgar, VIII, 284.
  The Gettysburg Address, IX, 321.

2. Suitable selections under this topic are difficult for teachers to find, owing to the objection
there is against religious teaching in the public schools. Parents have greater liberty of
selection. The following are beautiful and seem wholly unobjectionable:

  A Thought, Volume I, page 66.
  The First Snowfall, II, 403.
  Nearer Home, IV, 126.
  Stonewall Jackson's Way, V, 400.
  The Rainbow, VI, 91.
  A Child's Thought of God, VII, 418.

Who Stole the Bird's Nest?

The obvious purpose of these verses (Volume II, page 399), is to create a love for birds by
making things appear uncomfortable for the boy who steals their nests. Perhaps the lesson is
too obvious. The people who never steal nests and who always treat birds lovingly will approve
of the verses, but the boy to be reached is the one who does destroy nests and frightens or
kills their owners or the boy who is liable to be led to do such things. Such a child may have
no interest in the verses, may laugh at the sentiment, even if he can be induced to read or
listen to the rhymes. Sometimes interest can be created and good effects produced by making
prominent every feature except the moral. This can be made into a little play or dialogue with
the following characters:

  The Yellow-breast
  The Cow
  The Dog
  The Bobolink
  The Sheep
  The Crow
  The Hen
  A Bird
  Mary Green
  Alice Neal
  The Little Boy

Unfortunately, there is only one boy character and he is any boy, in fact almost every boy,
at some time in his life. But he is so ashamed that he doesn't speak, not even to give his
name. Suppose, then, we don't mention him at all. Just leave him off the list. If he isn't
mentioned and is in the audience, he'll remember what he has done and feel ashamed and go home
and perhaps hide behind the bed and resolve never to steal another nest. Yes, we are inclined
to agree with you that the poem might be better if there were no last stanza. So the little
drama, in outline, is something like this.

The Yellow-breast. Who stole my nest and the four eggs I laid?

The Cow. I didn't take your nest. I wouldn't do such a thing. I gave you a wisp of hay.

The Yellow-breast. Who stole my nest? Bobolink, who do you think stole my nest from the plum tree?

The Dog. (Interrupting). I didn't; I wouldn't be so mean. I gave my hairs to make the nest.

The Yellow-breast. Now listen to me. Who stole my nest, Bobolink?

The Bobolink. Yes, who stole the Yellow-breast's pretty nest?

The Sheep. Not I. I wouldn't treat a bird so. I gave my wool to line the nest.

The Yellow-breast. Who stole my nest, I say?

The Bobolink. Who stole her nest?

The Crow. I should like to know the thief. Who was it?

The Hen. Don't ask me. The chicks and I each gave a feather and she used them. We would be
ashamed to intrude on her.

A Bird. Let's all make a stir and find out who it is. Then we'll cry "For shame!" together.

Mary Green. I wouldn't rob a bird. I never heard anything so mean.

Alice Neal. It is very cruel. I wonder if the thief knew how sad the Yellow-breast would feel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Boys do not steal nests because they are mean and want to give pain. They admire the pretty
eggs, they like the skilfully built nests, and they do not realize that anything suffers real
pain. That is a lesson they must be taught. Can you teach kindness by cruelty? Is it not rather
cruel to say right out before Mary Green and Alice Neal and the other girls that the boy was
so ashamed he hung his head, hid behind the bed and wouldn't tell his name?

Lead, Kindly Light

NOTE.--John Henry Newman, the author of this beautiful poem (Volume V, page 110), was born
in London in 1801. He entered Oxford before he was sixteen and achieved the highest distinction
in his college course. He entered the Church of England and became noted for his wonderful
sermons. After some years of prominence in his calling, he was convinced that his belief was
wrong, and in 1845 he entered the Roman Catholic Church. In 1879 he was created cardinal by
Pope Leo XIII. but he continued to reside in England, where he died in 1890. Besides his great
influence as a spiritual thinker, Newman's writings and sermons were characterized by a forcible
and elevated style and by remarkably melodious utterance. Lead, Kindly Light shows these traits.

Some words and phrases in the hymn may be made clearer by explanation: "Kindly Light."--"The
light shall shine upon thy ways." (Job xxii, 28.) "The Lord is my light and my salvation."
(Isaiah lx, 20.)

In the Bible there are many other instances besides those just given in which there is a figurative
use of the word light. It is a natural and beautiful figure. A person in doubt intellectually
or spiritually looks upon himself as in darkness, and light to him is an intellectual or spiritual
awakening. The light that came to the poet was a kindly light; it removed his doubts and comforted
him.

"Garish day." The dazzling or glaring day.

"Moor and fen." While these words seem new and unusual to us, we must remember that in England
they are as common as the terms marsh and swamp are with us.

"Those angel faces smile," etc. The subject of this clause is faces, and the verb is smile.

Children will love this hymn though they cannot appreciate its full significance till maturer
years have brought with them the deeper experiences of life. Still they should know and love
the poem and may be led to a partial understanding of its beauty in sentiment by means of interpretation
carried not too far. By comment and reading somewhat in the following manner may the most be
accomplished:

1. The poet had reached mature years and had felt the oppressing influence of questioning and
doubt, but had reached a sublime faith in the power and love of God. He still feels, however,
the need of the personal care and guidance of the Almighty, and asks that it may continue through
life. He does not ask that all should be clear, nor that he should see the long course of his
life, but is content to pray--

    Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see
    The distant scene; one step enough for me.

2. After this invocation and prayer, his thoughts turn back into the past, and he remembers
that in youth he had not this divine faith, nor did he wish to place his reliance in God. He
preferred to lay out his own course and to plan his life far into the future, without the feeling
of dependence that now rules him. So he sings:

    I was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou
              Shouldst lead me on;
    I loved to choose and see my path, but now
              Lead thou me on;

He remembers that then he loved display and ostentation and was proud, wilful and self-confident;
nevertheless, there were times when for a moment he feared, but in spite of that timidity,
he went on in his masterful way:

    I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears,
    Pride ruled my will:

The thought of his self-complacency, his pride and arrogance brings out the plea, the supplication,
"remember not past years."

3. He remembers that through all his rebellions he has been surrounded by the power and goodness
of God, who has led him through all his devious paths, and the feeling comes that the same
protecting influence will surround him till doubt is swept aside.

He is confident, too, that the same power will lead him through the dark night of doubt till
the angels of love and faith, in whom he once trusted but whom he has doubted for a time, will
come about him and smile their welcome to the light:

    And with the morn those angel faces smile
    Which I have loved long since, and lost the while.

Poor Richard's Almanac

It is doubtful if Journeys Through Bookland contains any other selection so full of meat as
this extract (Volume VI, page 407) from the writings of Benjamin Franklin; in fact, it is so
full of wisdom on so many homely subjects and contains so much practical advice that no one
can master it in a single reading.

It is condensed to the utmost limit and every sentence should be weighed and considered. The
wise maxims and old saws need to be expanded in thought, illustrated by example and applied
to the reader's personal experience.

As a whole it is not particularly attractive to young people, but every child can be attracted
to parts of it. A little of it to-day, more of it next week, a third part some time in the
future, and in time the whole will be assimilated.

If the truths in this one selection are thoroughly embedded in the mind of a boy, if the traits
of character here taught are made a part of him, he will be a sound man of business, a sensible
head of a family and a valuable citizen in a community.

Poor Richard's Almanac contains the religion of work, of economy, of prosperity. It is a manly
doctrine, a clear-cut, respectable philosophy, a reasonable rule of business activity. Never
more than today were the precepts needed. The whole tendency of our modern activities is against
its precepts. Disaster and ruin may be seen on every hand and traced directly to the neglect
or violation of those sound principles which the wise old Franklin put in such homely words.

These maxims of life and policy are not those which it is the special province of the school
to teach. They are the elementary law which a boy or girl must learn in his home and see exemplified
therein if they are ever to become a practical part of life's equipment.

The wisdom of the Almanac is the wisdom of practical experience, the wisdom of those who have
lived and worked, who have lost and won. It does not deal with the finer phases of character,
but with those practical things which lead to a bread-and-butter success.

A boy who knows what Poor Richard teaches and follows his precepts will be a business success.
If a parent can grind into the character of his child these lessons of industry, simplicity,
temperance and frugality he will have left a legacy more valuable a thousand times than the
wealth he may have amassed, although that is reckoned by the millions.

Because of the extreme condensation of the address by Father Abraham, the following outlines
have been made to enable a parent to find easily what is wanted and to present it attractively.
The selection is one of those which children will not master by themselves, but one which the
parent can easily make interesting if he will follow the plans given below.

Analysis

  I. (Page 409.) Taxes are heavy, but we are taxed:
    1. Twice as much by our Idleness.
    2. Three times as much by our Pride.
    3. Four times as much by our Folly.

  II. Idleness and Industry. (pages 409, 411.)
    1. Time wasted in doing nothing (page 409), sloth.

(In this connection see fable, Industry and Sloth, Volume I, page 300. Consult index in this
volume).

    2. Time wasted in sleep (page 410).
    3. Time wasted in wishing and hoping (page 411).
    4. Industry lost by putting off till tomorrow (page 412).
    5. Steadiness in industry wins (page 412).

  III. Folly. (pages 414-416).
    1. Of trusting to others (page 414).
    2. Of neglect of small matters (page 414).
    3. Of extravagance and the sensibleness of frugality (page 414).
    4. Of vice (page 415).
    5. Of high living (page 415).
    6. Of purchasing unnecessary things (page 415).
    7. Of luxury (page 416).

  IV. Pride. (page 417).
    1. Of dress (page 417).
    2. In table luxuries (page 417).
    3. Of appearance (page 417).

  V. The Madness of Debt. (pages 417-420).
    1. Brings shame (page 417).
    2. Causes lying (page 418).
    3. Destroys virtue (page 418).
    4. Brings slavery (page 419).
    5. Prevents success (page 420).

  VI. Ask for the Blessing of Heaven (page 420).

  VII. Accept Counsel. Do not wait for Experience.

Following the arrangement of the analysis above we may group a series of typical maxims, each
of which can be made the basis of one of those little fireside talks which bear so prominent
a part in the recollection of every man and woman who had the blessing to be brought up in
a real home where father and mother joined in a sincere effort to bring up their children to
honest, earnest, successful maturity.

  I. "We are taxed twice as much by our Idleness, three times as much
      by our Pride and four times as much by our Folly."

  II. Idleness and Industry.
     1.
     2. "The sleeping fox catches no poultry."
     3. "He that lives on hope will die fasting."
     4. "Industry need not wish."
     5. "Have you somewhat to do tomorrow? Do it today."
     6. "Three removes are as bad as a fire."

  III. Folly.
     1. "If you would have a faithful servant and one that you like,
        serve yourself."
     2.
     3. "A fat kitchen makes a lean will."
     4. "What maintains one vice would bring up two children."
     5. "Who dainties love shall beggars prove."
     6. "At a great pennyworth pause awhile."
     7. "Silks and satins, scarlets and velvets put out the kitchen
        fire."

  IV. Pride.
     1.
     2. "Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty and supped
        with infamy."
     3. "What is a butterfly? At best
         He's but a caterpillar drest."

  V. The Madness of Debt.
     1. "You will be ashamed to see your creditor."
     2. "Lying rides upon debt's back."
     3. "It's hard for an empty bag to stand upright."
     4. "Creditors have better memories than debtors."
     5. "Those have short Lent who owe money to be paid at Easter."

  VI. "Job suffered and was afterward prosperous."

  VII. "They that won't be counselled can't be helped."
       "If you will not hear reason, she'll surely rap your knuckles."

CHAPTER VI

FATHER AND SON

Properly enough, the responsibility for health and development of young children rests upon
the mother, and in most families this care remains with her till the children are able to look
out for themselves. However, upon the father devolves more responsibility than the mere providing
for the daily need of his children. Especially is it true that the boys of a family need the
personal influence of the father fully as much as that of the mother. However patient, wise
and devoted a mother may be, there comes a time in every boy's life when he ought to be under
the influence and subject to the control of a man. Every boy looks to men for his models and
for a time follows them blindly, in spite of the most careful training a mother can give. Curiously
enough it is often to a man other than his father that the boy looks for advice and direction.
It is some other man who influences his thought and through his thought his actions and the
development of his character. Even when the relations between father and son are of the closest
the boy begins to look around him and often, for no other reason than the novelty of the influence,
he falls under the tutelage of another to whom he gives a confidence that his father could
never secure. As they enter the period of adolescence, boys will often talk on many subjects
with strangers with a freedom that parents, especially fathers, can never hope to see equalled
unless the most perfect confidence has existed from the earliest childhood. Those who have
taught for many years and who have had growing boys in their charge know how true this fact
is and try to make it of service by seeing that someone of strong character shall be at hand
for the boys to lean upon. They are impressionable, these men in embryo, and will go to such
lengths for persons they happen to admire and who have secured their confidence, that those
who know tremble when they find evil or trifling influences gathering about their charges.

Unfortunately in too many cases the parents fail to realize the importance of this change of
relationship and allow children to drift without any effort to stem the tide that is bearing
their progeny away. Fathers are particularly blind. One would think that they would remember
how it was with themselves in their youth and be guided accordingly. But as a matter of fact
a large majority of the fathers of the land have forgotten the perils of their own boyhoods;
they look upon their own sons as proof against the temptations they weathered, or as being
exempt because of their better position in life. If these same fathers would only consider
that the temptations come from within and are inseparable from our race and from the age of
the children they would regard with the greatest concern every influence that is brought to
bear upon their rapidly developing boys.

This is no light matter we are discussing and is one that ought to be considered seriously
by every father. Every teacher, every psychologist knows that the time comes when a man must
lead the changing youth. Who shall do it? Obviously the father. No man can put aside his responsibilities
in this matter nor can he delegate it to the mother. She may be the one big factor in the development
of her boy's character and yet there is one time when all her carefully laid plans may go awry,
when for a little while her restraining influence is powerless to save. No father can, in fairness
to the children he has brought into the world, say that when he has made the home and furnished
it, when he has fed and clothed his wife and children he has done all that he ought to do.
It matters not how difficult a task it has been to find the money to support his family, nor
how hard he has been obliged to work to get the daily bread; it matters not how tired or how
much in need of recreation he may be when he returns to his home at the close of the day; he
finds his responsibility always facing him. Do not misunderstand the question, nor the purpose
of these lines. This is in no sense a criticism nor is it a bit of preaching at the hard-working
fathers upon whom rest the hopes of the race. Every true father is willing to give his life
if necessary for his offspring and there is no greater devotion in the world than that of father
to son. But the fact remains that many a busy man has been so overburdened with the cares of
his everyday life that he has had no time to make himself familiar with even the smallest of
his duties to his family.

Suddenly he becomes conscious that his son is growing away from him, that the little things
that have bound them together have no longer the strength to hold, that they are drifting apart.
Perhaps the father never has been on intimate terms with his son and has never really known
what his child was thinking about or what his ideas and ideals really were. When this consciousness
comes to the father, when he learns that he is no longer the one big figure on his son's horizon
and that his words have ceased to be accepted as final on every question, he is startled and
seeks strenuously to regain his position. Difficult will it be. To regain what has been lost
is always difficult; more difficult is it to displace an influence that is already established.
How many, many times there comes to the earnest teachers the anxious parent with the oft-repeated
statements and questions. "My boy has grown away from me. I don't know him any more. What I
say no longer has any influence with him. I don't know what to do. How can you help me? He
thinks more of what you say than of what I say and would follow you even if I objected. What
can I do? What advice can you give?" In many instances it is too late and never again can the
father recover the influence he has lost.

On the other hand, it is possible in most cases for the father to reinstate himself if he proceeds
in the right way. That way is never through command or restraint or discipline. By only one
process can he succeed, and that is by placing himself in the position of the boy, learning
the boy's tastes and interests and in joining with the boy in the things the latter likes.
If there has never been much community of thought between the two, the parent may say in substance
or show by his acts that he has rather neglected the youth because he was too young to be in
sympathy with a man's work and because it was better for the mother to have the care of her
son during his boyhood; but that now he is old enough to begin to think a man's thoughts and
to take an interest in a man's occupations. Sometimes if this is followed by a real hearty
confidence, if the father takes the boy with him on his business trips, shows him how the money
for the family is made and what are the joys and compensations of a busy career, the boy's
confidence is won, his interest aroused and a frank comradeship established, new bonds are
created and the father finds a delightful companion, the boy an honored friend and a worthy
leader. Such fathers have said again and again, "I have found a new and trustworthy friend,
a helper whose enthusiasm and good sense is worth more to me than anything I have had in years;
and it is my boy who is doing it." Unfortunately, most men fail to realize the power of a boy's
mind, the helpfulness of his companionship. His outlook on life is so fresh and true, his ambition
so strong and his willingness to be taught so refreshing that intimacy with him makes the adult
much stronger and better able to master the annoyances of the day, and to win the commercial
victories upon which subsistence depends.

But at its best this latter-day acquaintanceship is never so strong nor so helpful as that
which begins when the child is an infant and continues through boyhood to the larger youth
and manhood. And it is easy to win the confidence and respect of the very young, easy to retain
it when won. Yet many a sincere and anxious man fails utterly to earn that sympathetic companionship
which any father may have for the asking, if the request is made in a way the child can understand
and appreciate. The foundation of it all is a sympathy in the things that children know and
love. A child lives on a plane of his own. You cannot take him very far from it nor substitute
anything in its place except by the slowest and most careful management. There can be no sympathy,
no understanding that is not located on the childish plane. The father must come down where
the child lives, must find his interest in the things that the child loves and must be sincere
in every manifestation of that interest. Right here is where so many fathers fail. They try
to interest the child in things which the older mind enjoys, and finding themselves unable
to create the artificial atmosphere give up in discouragement and disgust. Such a course is
foolish in the extreme. The older person who knows more and has had the experiences that are
now new to youngsters must go back into his memories and join in the little things that make
up the big complex of a child's world. Unless you become as little children you can never enter
into the lives of children.

To become young again in a genuine fashion is not permitted to many of us and we must accordingly
seek some common ground where we can meet the children and be as they are in seeming if not
in reality. We may not be able to play their games with interest and sympathy, or the boys
may be so skilful that we lose standing rather than gain influence by participation. We may
not be able to sympathize with the rivalries of school or talk intelligently on the sports
that make up a large part of their daily occupation. Where, then, can we meet them and how
shall we put ourselves on an equality with them and at the same time preserve our leadership?

Such a question is not easy to answer in detail, but many a man has found a way and a simple
one at that. In the first place, play is part of the life of every child and he has as much
right to his fun as any adult has to the recreation he finds necessary to keep him at the top
of his working power. Many a child may properly complain that he has had no childhood, that
all the time he was being repressed and never allowed to express himself in his own way. He
may not realize at the time that anything is wrong in the treatment that his father gives him,
but the time comes when he will know and understand. Right there is a fact that every father
ought to know and realize so thoroughly that he will never lose sight of it. Yes, some time
every boy will know just what kind of a father he has had and just how worthy of respect and
veneration that father has been. A little boy is credulity itself and everything tends to make
him believe in his father. But as he grows older he will surely know. Woe be it to the parent
who when disillusionment comes falls below the standard the child has set. Some time the boy
will know. If he has never had the pleasure that was his due, if he has never had the fun in
his home that he had a right to expect, his estimate of his parent will be appallingly low.

Through play in the home in the evening after the day's work is ended has many a father laid
the foundation for an influence that controlled when other ties seemed strained to the breaking
point. It is in this playtime that the boy expresses himself most fully. Every animal has its
playtime, and the most savage of the beasts play with their little ones to educate them to
succeed in the struggle for existence. If play is a natural expression of the child's mind
and body, anything that represses play is a hindrance to development. In the cheery home where
to have fun and lots of it is a daily habit every child grows and matures as perfectly as a
plant where there are just the right amounts of sun and moisture and where the soil is perfectly
adapted to growth. A little less light, a little less moisture, and the plant will wither and
fail. A little less play and more repression and the child will become morose and fail to keep
pace with his mates. To repress is so easy, to reconstruct so difficult!

After the play comes the work, but the work may be made as interesting as the play and may
proceed in the same spirit of jollity and freedom that marked the time given up wholly to amusement.
The work is the second factor in the father's influence--something on the plane of the child's
own mind, not too difficult, not too long continued. Closely related, too, it must be with
things that the child has done and understands. Some phase of school work may need to be carried
on by the older ones in the family, but the younger boys are free to work with the father in
anything that will stimulate and inspire. What shall the work be? To every one who has had
to do with a large number of children the answer comes quickly enough. In reading and conversation
will the boy and his father come most closely together, in a field that is attractive to both
and where it is as easy to find entertainment and pleasure as it is to gain information and
culture.

Two quotations from men of good judgment come into mind at this point. Arthur T. Hadley, recently
President of Yale University, has said, "Men in every department of practical life, men in
commerce, in transportation or in manufactures, have told me that what they really wanted from
our college was men who have this selective power of using books efficiently. The beginnings
of knowledge are best learned in any home fairly well furnished with books."

In those two quotations the ideas of prime importance to every father are, first, that the
beginnings of knowledge are best learned in the home; and, second, that it is the mastery of
what is read that really counts. In school a child learns to read; at his home he reads to
learn. At school he learns how he ought to read; but it is at his home that he learns to read
in that manner. What a boy does in school is a small part of the total amount of his reading,
and its influence is small indeed. In home reading, then, reading of the right material in
the right way, is to be found the great influence in education and the great factor in the
building of character.

If such is the case, what more important work can there be for the father than to read with
his son, to watch these beginnings of education which mean so much more than the mere instruction
in school, and to be a power in developing that right method of reading which means not only
the acquisition of knowledge but also the acquirement of power and the making of character.
The busy man is tired at night and inclined to think that he has no time to give to reading
with his boys. He may think, too, that reading childish stories is beneath his dignity. Such
is not the case. There is a great abundance of literature that is manly, and at the same time
interesting to a boy. If the father feels that he is past the time when he has any sympathy
with the fairy stories and the little poems that the infants like, if he thinks the nursery
rhymes are silly and the fables too old to be true, that is because he has not recently read
them. Busy men, men of power and influence, like to renew their youth by going to the simple
things they loved as children, and not a few of them find that the years have given them new
powers of interpretation and that what was to them at one time only an amusing tale is now
replete with the philosophy of the universe. Yet there may be fathers of so practical a mind
that works of imagination have no hold upon them. To them, however, the world of literature
is by no means barren. There are history, biography and essays upon a thousand subjects, any
one of which will interest a boy and at the same time his father. Particularly is this true
when the reading is aloud and interspersed with free conversation upon the subjects that come
to the surface. If the father can only select the right material and read it with his son there
is no question whatever about the interest that will develop for both. A busy man has little
time to select reading; in all probability he has not had the experience to enable him to do
so wisely, for he has been so absorbed in business that he has forgotten what he knew best
as a boy and is unable to tell just what appealed to him most. It may be that he never in his
youth had the opportunity to read the best of literature and does not know where to turn to
find it. He hears his little family talking about what they read at school and how they ought
to read and feels himself behind the times and hesitates to make an exhibition of himself before
his children. To any father, a collection such as that in Journeys Through Bookland is of inestimable
value. When it is considered that in addition to the literary material there are abundant suggestions
as to how interest may be created and how the reading may be made most profitable, then the
set becomes indispensable. In other words, Journeys contains the material that must be in every
family to make it "fairly well furnished with books," and it provides a way of "mastering the
books so that every valuable thought is a familiar friend."

If fathers could be persuaded to spend one evening with their boys in the reading and discussion
of some selection in Journeys, they would not willingly forego the pleasure thereafter. It
has happened so many times that we know this is not an overstatement. Fathers by the score
have written us on the subject. One says, "I have solved the problem of keeping my boys off
the streets, or, rather, Journeys has done it for me." "I have never spent a happier evening.
The boys staid up with me till after their usual bed time and when they had retired, I read
on for half the night," says another. "I feel young again, and John and I are great chums.
Reminiscences of a Pioneer kept me telling stories long after we had finished reading the sketch."
Who are these fathers? Clergymen, lawyers, doctors, teachers, we may expect, for they are somewhat
interested in reading, because of their life work. But they are not the most numerous, by any
means. Railroad men, manufacturers, farmers, men in hundreds of vocations acknowledge the delight
of reading Journeys with their children. Is there anything finer, more wholesome, more inspiring
than the thought of fathers and children reading together, and together feeling the inspiration
that radiates from the great masterpieces.

But this chapter is not an argument for the purchase of Journeys. That you, father of a growing
boy, are reading these lines is evidence that you have thought well enough of the Journeys
idea to place a set of books in your family. You have done this because you recognized that
in this age of specialists, you, a business man, could not be expected to select reading matter
for your son and assist him in his growth and development with the same skill as can those
who have devoted many years to that special problem. No attempt is made to advise you on the
conduct of your business or to direct the management and control of your son. But a sincere
effort has been made to help you to join with your boy in that hearty sympathy which will make
him happier, better and more of a man; which will make you young again and add to your pleasure
without increasing your burdens. What we want is to make the books most effective, to help
them be the power for good that we know they can be, and more than anything else, to make them
a living bond between father and son. So let us examine the books together with these thoughts
in mind and see if we cannot find just the things that will arouse your enthusiasm and make
you young again, an equal and a friend who can lead your boy where you want him to go and where
he will gladly follow you.

For instance, there is in the sixth volume that kindly humorous account of a boyhood in Wisconsin
in the early part of the last century, Reminiscences of a Pioneer (Volume V, 340). Every man
will be interested in it, and he cannot read it aloud to a boy of seven without catching the
attention of the child. Even a lad of sixteen will get into the spirit of the thing, although
it may not be the same incidents that will attract him. Think of the contrast between that
humble log cabin with its visiting Indians and the luxurious steam-heated flat of your son,
or the farm house with all modern conveniences that a friend of yours may have in the very
region where our little friend was frightened more by the strange Dutch immigrants than he
was by the red men whom he saw every day. Think of a six or seven year old boy that had never
seen an apple and who could enjoy chokecherries and crab apples, even though he couldn't get
his face back into line on the same day in which he ate them fresh from the tree. Think of
offering raw turnips to the guests and of people coming twenty miles to get a small piece of
salt pork, because they were so tired of fresh meat and fish. Think that these things happened
less than a hundred years ago and within forty miles of the now big and flourishing city of
Milwaukee. What lessons there are in courage, skill, self-reliance and contentment in the lives
of these early pioneers, especially the devoted mother who kept her yeast alive so many years,
and stood off the Indians with one hand while she tended to her increasing family with the
other. Can you imagine a boy who wouldn't be interested in the sturdy youngster who earned
and refused his first quarter of a dollar for paddling a man across the river in a heavy dugout?
Don't you think your son will have a host of questions to ask about it all and that you will
be glad to talk to him about the Indians he likes to imitate when he plays? Can't you see that
reading such as this is worth while and that every moment spent in this way is an investment
for yourself in the boy's confidence and good graces?

Other selections of a somewhat similar nature, all of which will appeal to boys at the time
when Indians and adventure are of more interest than anything else, are the following:

  The Arickara Indians, Volume IV, page 472.
  The Buccaneers, Volume V, page 359.
  Captain Morgan at Maracaibo, Volume V, page 365.
  Ringrose and His Buccaneers, Volume VIII, page 1.
  David Crockett in the Creek War, Volume VIII, page 37.
  Braddock's Defeat, Volume V, page 379.
  The Capture of Vincennes, Volume VI, page 428.
  The Black Hawk Tragedy, Volume VII, page 58.
  Père Marquette, Volume VIII, page 121.
  George Rogers Clark, Volume VI, page 422.

Have no fear that the boy's love for Indians and adventure is a thing to suppress. It is an
evidence of growth and of development. You know every boy lives over in himself the history
of his race, and as there was a time when the life of mankind was a struggle with physical
difficulties and personal danger so there is a time when every boy feels within himself the
admiration for brave deeds and the desire to fight and conquer. Your province it is to meet
him on that ground, enjoy with him the tales of lofty daring and physical prowess, the tales
of stirring adventure and narrow escapes, and to lead him gently with you into the fields of
history where achievements in science, commerce and engineering take the place of battles with
wild animals and wilder Indians.

Don't feel that you have not the time to do the things recommended. We can always find the
time to do the things we like to do, and this means of joining in the thoughts of your boy
will be one of the things you will most enjoy when you have once accustomed yourself to it.

We get out of reading just what we put into it. That is to say, the same selection read by
different people will have just as many meanings as there are people reading it. By assistance,
a person may be caused to see more in what he reads and in time may approximate the full understanding
of his teacher. But it is unwise and useless to expect a child to read with the same appreciation
that an adult has. Accordingly the father, if he is wise, will be satisfied when his boy is
really interested in a thoroughly good selection if he sees at the same time that the boy is
setting about his interpretation in the right way. To illustrate: If you are reading about
a storm at sea and you are a survivor of a shipwreck in such a storm, your appreciation of
the description will be infinitely more vivid than that of your son, who has not even seen
the sea. All that you can do is to give him some idea of the power of the waves, make him feel
that the sight is a thrilling one and that there is imminent danger to life and property in
the storm. Some time he will have the experience to interpret and then his mind will recur
to the description and he will understand it somewhat as you do now. This brings us to think
for a moment on the permanent value of all that is read. The mind holds things in abeyance,
brings them out to the light now and then, and each time finds them more and more intelligible
and influential. Many a maxim learned in youth when an understanding of it was impossible becomes
a power for good for the person in later years when its inner significance appears.

Some poetry will appeal to boys, even though they may look askance at most of it. Some lyrics
are virile and powerful, well worthy the study of the keenest minds. There is an unfounded
prejudice against poetry in many men because of the fancied puerility of it and its silly sentiment.
Such a prejudice always disappears if the person reads enough and selects the things that are
worthy of study. Narrative poems are more likely to appeal to men and boys than the lyrics.
When the narrative is a stirring one and the action dramatic, the poetic form adds decidedly
to its interest and effectiveness. Take, for instance, that little poem by Robert Browning
that is known as Incident of the French Camp (Volume IV, page 174). No man can read it without
being stirred by it, and its appeal to boys is immediate and strong. But strong as it is, the
whole influence of it may be intensified if it is discussed in the manner indicated on the
pages immediately after the poem. What we would have you do is to read the little epic with
your boy and talk it over with him along the lines of the comments given. It will not be necessary
for you to point the moral. He will see it for himself, but if you can show a little enthusiasm
and delight in the incident he will go away feeling better toward you and will be a convert
to poetry, at least to some kinds of it. Later in life the lesson will come back to him and
he will seek for more of the same sort.

There are a great number of poems of similar import in the books. Any one of the following
will be capital for reading aloud with your boy. Try them and be convinced.

  Beth Gelert, Volume III, page 42.
  Sheridan's Ride, Volume IV, page 223.
  Bernardo Del Carpio, Volume IV, page 270.
  The Wooden Horse, Volume IV, page 383.
  Little Giffin of Tennessee, Volume IV, page 461.
  Bruce and the Spider, Volume V, page 314.
  How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix, Volume V, page 335.
  Sohrab and Rustum, Volume VI, page 173.
  How's My Boy? Volume VII, page 169.
  The Battle of Ivry, Volume VIII, page 76.
  Hervé Riel, Volume VII, page 168.

Any one of the national anthems or patriotic poems is fine reading and a source for many a
kindly talk that will tend to make a better citizen of your son and perhaps give you a fresher
and truer conception of your own duties and responsibilities to the government. These you may
readily find from the index in the tenth volume, under the title, Patriotic Poems.

For older boys there are plenty of good selections, and the discussion of some of them must
help to bring nearer to the lad his increasing responsibilities. A normal boy of sixteen has
a lot of the man in him and wants to be treated as a man, at least to have his ideas, hopes
and ambitions given some consideration. He does not want always to be called "Bobby" or "Jimmy"
or "Tommy." He likes better to be called "Smith," "Jones," or "Robinson," or whatever his last
name is. He is tired of being told to do this and that and would like to join in some of the
family councils and feel that father is beginning to see the man and forget the "kid." He will
be interested in anything that relates to commerce, or manufacture or government if it is presented
to him in such a way that he can "be somebody" in the discussion.

It is easy to interest boys in speaking, in orations, in debates. In Journeys (Volume IX, page
321) is printed the Gettysburg Address by Abraham Lincoln. It is the one great, masterly American
address, noted not only for its perfect construction, but for its sentiment, its power and
its brevity. In no other great address are all these elements combined. Tested by any standard
it rings true in thought and is perfect in form. It is worth while to commit it to memory,
and father and son should be equally interested in the task, if it can be called a task. Preceding
the address is a note giving its historical setting, and following it is an analysis of the
thought and a series of questions tending to give the thought a more personal application.
The Fate of the Indians and A Call to Arms, both in Volume IX, are good orations accompanied
by studies.

An essay that is in effect almost an oration is the extract from the Impeachment of Warren
Hastings by Macaulay (Volume IX, page 32), and in this volume are studies on that essay (page 248).

The Boston Massacre by Nathaniel Hawthorne is a pleasing bit of history which in this volume
(page 370) is used as the basis of a study in argument. You may prefer to read the studies
first and arrange the arguments for your sons or for yourself and your boy. It is surprising
into what different directions the argument will lead you and how many interesting questions
will arise which will make good subjects for discussion. To make conversation worth while there
is needed only something interesting to talk about. To be a good talker is worth a great deal
to any young man and there is no better way to give him this power than by conversing freely
with him while he is young.

Moral instruction is difficult. A thousand little things tend to neutralize it and there is
an almost universal spirit of opposition to moral teaching, on the part of youth. And yet it
is easy to give moral lessons in an indirect way that shall arouse no opposition and that shall
be effective for lifetime. Journeys is full of what for lack of a better name we call character-building
literature. Some of it is adapted to boys and girls of a very tender age and more of it to
the older children. The Cubes of Truth (Volume VI, page 406), by Oliver Wendell Holmes, is
a beautiful little essay that expresses a great truth in a way to impress it indelibly upon
the memory of every person who reads it. So clear is the language, so clever the idea that
the selection is read with absorbing interest, and so impressive is the lesson that no real
attention need be called to it. In reading it the beauty of the language and the quaintness
of the figure are the real subjects of discussion, but all the time the great lesson is making
its subtle appeal. Cardinal Newman's Definition of a Gentleman (Volume IV, page 170) is more
obviously a didactic selection, but here again the definition is given so clearly and so forcibly
that no possible offense can be taken and the weight of the statements will produce their effect
without much comment.

In this connection it should be necessary merely to call attention to the chapter on character-building,
to be found in this volume. In preparing that chapter the writer had in mind children of all
ages and both sexes, but it will be an easy matter for you to select the things which you know
will appeal to your son.

In fact, you will find in every chapter of this volume something to help you in making your
way into the thoughts and the hearts of your family, and we know that as the years pass away
and manhood comes to your boys they will look back upon the hours spent in reading with you
as the most momentous of their lives. Do you want your son to say in his manhood, "I look upon
Mr. A or Mr. B as the person who most influenced my life"? Do you want him to say, "I might
have been a cultured man with a wide range of interests if my father had given to me a little
of the time he spent at his club"? Do you want your boy to think that he was a wanderer from
home, because he could not find in that home the manly sympathy that his soul craved? In many
a family there is no trouble in keeping the boys off the streets. There is no place half so
attractive as the home and for them no inclination to seek among others the fun and intellectual
stimulus they crave as they crave their food.

Usually the reading habit must be formed early or not at all. A man in middle life will not
acquire the habit easily unless there is some stimulus which keeps him reading for a time,
in spite of himself. In the active minds of his boys he may find just that stimulus, and in
his declining years when time weighs heavily upon his hands and great activities are denied
him he will find in his later acquirement an unfailing source of enjoyment. In such hours will
come to recollection the days he spent with his boys and his heart will fill with joy that
he did not neglect his rich opportunities.

CHAPTER VII

MEMORIZING

Whenever children are interested in any selection, it is well to encourage them to commit it
to memory, if it be brief, or if they find in it phrases or sentences which seem to them beautiful
or filled with meaning. If, however, the young people are driven to memorizing selections of
any kind, the practice is of little value, and it is likely to create a prejudice against the
very things for which they should feel admiration. By a show of interest, however, the parents
may, without difficulty, lead the children to learn a great deal of the best literature, and
thus not only strengthen their knowledge but improve their style of writing as well, for unconsciously
the young will follow the style of those whom they admire. Moreover, it frequently happens
that some of the inspiring thoughts which children have learned become rules of action to them
in after life. If the practice is begun early enough children will form the habit of learning
those things which they like, and such a habit is of greatest value. In many schools, during
certain years, the learning of "memory gems" is a daily practice; it should be no less a practice
at home.

Some of the many things in these books which may well be learned in their entirety are the
following:

  Volume I,    page 66.   A Thought.
  Volume I,    page 67.   The Swing.
  Volume I,    page 83.   Singing.
  Volume I,    page 110.  Rain.
  Volume I,    page 133.  Little Blue Pigeon.
  Volume I,    page 144.  The Land of Counterpane.
  Volume I,    page 204.  Sleep, Baby, Sleep.
  Volume I,    page 246.  Norse Lullaby.
  Volume I,    page 262.  Wynken, Blynken and Nod.
  Volume I,    page 339.  The Owl and the Pussy Cat.
  Volume I,    page 340.  Time to Rise.
  Volume I,    page 410.  The Reaper and the Flowers.
  Volume II,   page 11.   The Baby.
  Volume II,   page 32.   Lullaby.
  Volume II,   page 123.  Windy Nights.
  Volume II,   page 121.  Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks.
  Volume II,   page 87.   Picture Books in Winter.
  Volume II,   page 119.  Seven Times One.
  Volume II,   page 403.  The First Snowfall.
  Volume II,   page 481.  In Time's Swing.
  Volume III,  page 347.  Barbara Frietchie.
  Volume IV,   page 82.   Footsteps of Angels.
  Volume IV,   page 126.  Nearer Home.
  Volume IV,   page 127.  Pictures of Memory.
  Volume V,    page 396.  The American Flag.
  Volume V,    page 399.  Battle Hymn of the Republic.
  Volume VI,   page 119.  Annie Laurie.
  Volume VI,   page 122.  Sweet and Low.
  Volume VI,   page 133.  The Bugle Song.
  Volume VII,  page 1.    The Daffodils.
  Volume VII,  page 4.    To the Fringed Gentian.
  Volume VII,  page 340.  Those Evening Bells.
  Volume VII,  page 395.  To a Waterfowl.

While usually it is better to allow each person to learn the lines that most appeal to him,
yet some help should be given children. No two people will select all of the same things, though
probably all would agree on some few things as being of the highest excellence. Some lines
should be learned because of their beauty in description, others because of beauty in phraseology,
and still others because of beauty in sentiment. Search should be made, too, for those things
which are inspirational, and which will be strong aids in the building of character.

We append a few pages of quotations taken at random from the volumes. They will prove handy
when the parent or teacher is pressed for time, and the references to volume and page will
enable the busy person readily to find the context, if that seems desirable.

The quotations below are arranged in the order of their appearance in Journeys Through Bookland.
This will enable anyone to locate them easily. The lines cover a wide range of thought and
will furnish an endless variety of material for stories, comment, question and conversation.
Some of them cannot be appreciated without a knowledge of their setting in the original poem
or prose selection, while others are complete and perfect as they stand.

One of the best ways to teach a poem or selection is to begin by creating an interest in a
quotation from it. For instance, "Write me as one who loves his fellow men," will lead the
way to an acquaintance with the old favorite Abou Ben Adhem. In fact, only after the poem has
been read and appreciated will a person get the full force of the idea, "Write me as one who
loves his fellow men."

One Hundred Choice Quotations

(Volume I)

    Early to bed, and early to rise,
    Is the way to be healthy, wealthy and wise.             --Page 48.

Had it not been for your buzz I should not even have known you were there.                
--Page 70.

    The Rock-a-by Lady from Hushaby street,
    With poppies that hang from her head to her feet.       --Page 94.

    I saw the dimpling river pass
    And be the sky's blue looking-glass.                   --Page 130.

    In through the window a moonbeam comes,
    Little gold moonbeam with misty wings.                 --Page 133.

    Oh, the world's running over with joy.                 --Page 147.

The honorable gentleman has not told us who is to hang the bell around the Cat's neck.    
--Page 197.

    Then she smooths the eyelids down
    Over those two eyes of brown--
    In such soothing, tender wise
    Cometh Lady Button-Eyes.                               --Page 367.

One must be content with the good one has enjoyed.         --Page 379.

    Oh, not in cruelty, not in wrath,
      The Reaper came that day;
    'Twas an angel visited the green earth,
      And took the flowers away.                           --Page 411.

It matters nothing if one is born in a duck yard, if one can only be hatched from a swan's
egg.                                 --Page 427.

(Volume II)

Did you ever hear of a bird in a cage, that promised to stay in it?
                                                             --Page 2.

    The very violets in their bed
    Fold up their eyelids blue.                             --Page 32.

Rejoice in thy youth, rejoice in thy fresh growth, and in the young life that is within thee.
--Page 70.

    You are more than the Earth, though you are such a dot--
    You can love and think, and the Earth cannot.           --Page 67.

Those that wish to be clean, clean they will be.           --Page 247.

Reckon not on your chickens before they are hatched.       --Page 376.

(Volume III)

In darkness dissolves the gay frost-work of bliss.          --Page 96.

Lips where smiles went out and in.                         --Page 386.

(Volume IV)

    Prince thou art,--the grown up man
      Only is republican.                                    --Page 3.

    For men may come and men may go,
    But I go on forever.                                    --Page 61.

    And looks the whole world in the face,
    For he owes not any man.                                --Page 86.

    Ye think the rustic cackle of your bourg
    The murmur of the world!                               --Page 156.

    For man is man and master of his fate.                 --Page 158.

    Perseverance gains its meed
      And Patience wins the race.                          --Page 316.

    Silence! ground arms! kneel all! caps off!
      "Old Blue-Light's" going to pray.
    Strangle the foe that dares to scoff!
      Attention! It's his way.                             --Page 401.

    Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
    Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home.      --Page 224.

"God bless us every one!" said Tiny Tim.                   --Page 309.

The short and simple annals of the poor.                   --Page 363.

The paths of glory lead but to the grave.                  --Page 363.

    Along the cool, sequestered vale of life
    They kept the noiseless tenor of their way.            --Page 366.

He gained from Heaven ('twas all he wished) a friend.      --Page 368.

Have you somewhat to do tomorrow? Do it today.             --Page 412.

Beware of little expenses; a small leak will sink a great ship.
                                                           --Page 415.

'Tis foolish to lay out money in the purchase of repentance.
                                                           --Page 416.

Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.                   --Page 415.

'Tis hard for an empty bag to stand upright!               --Page 418.

Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other.
                                                           --Page 420.

(Volume VII)

        That inward eye
    Which is the bliss of solitude.                          --Page 1.

    Then doth thy sweet and quiet eye
    Look through its fringes to the sky.                     --Page 5.

    The rank is but the guinea's stamp,
    The man's the gowd for a' that!                        --Page 149.

(Volume VIII)

    Go tell the Spartans, thou that passeth by,
    That here, obedient to their laws, we lie.              --Page 90.

    Thermopylae had her messenger of defeat:
    The Alamo had none.                                    --Page 152.

England expects every man to do his duty.                  --Page 297.

They never sought in vain that sought the Lord aright.     --Page 322.

The best acid is assiduity.                                --Page 332.

(Volume IX)

Write me as one who loves his fellow men.                   --Page 11.

    When beggars die, there are no comets seen;
    The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
                                                           --Page 145.

    Cowards die many times before their deaths;
    The valiant never taste of death but once.             --Page 145.

Et tu Brute! Then fall, Cæsar.                           --Page 154.

Surely man is but a shadow, and life a dream.              --Page 286.

All service ranks the same with God.                       --Page 301.

    For what are the voices of birds--
    Ay, and of beasts--but words, our words,
    Only so much more sweet?                               --Page 314.

    I will pass each, and see their happiness,
    And envy none--being just as great, no doubt,
    Useful to men, dear to God as they!                    --Page 317.

CHAPTER VIII

HOW TO READ FICTION

1. Different Kinds of Literature

If there were but one kind of literature, it would be an easy matter to give the few directions
that would be necessary to make good readers. In reality there are, however, several types,
so different in their purpose, style and content that the reader must study them in many different
ways if he would get the varied and inspiring messages. To appreciate what this means, let
us look over the field.

For our purposes, as has been said, true literature, as distinguished from the practical literature
of fact, may be grouped under the two general heads of poetry and prose. At first thought the
difference between the two seems wide and unmistakable. Poetry differs from prose not only
in form, but also in rhythm, music, beauty and sentiment. The former is usually more figurative,
and aims to stimulate the imagination more keenly and to enthral the feelings more completely.
Upon a closer consideration it is seen that poetry and good prose have much in common, and
that often it is really but a question of form, for lyric beauty glows in the phrases of our
finest prose, and both heart and soul are moved by its powerful appeals.

There are narratives and arguments in both poetry and prose, and essays in the form of both.
For this reason our general method of study may be the same for both, except when form alone
is considered.

The simplest and most universal form of literature is found in the catchy little nursery rhymes
which the children of the nation learn at their cradles from the lips of their elders. In these,
if careful search be made, may be found most of the elements which in broader and more complex
forms appear in the favorite selections of maturer years. Following the nursery rhymes appear
the fables, fairy tales, myths and legends that have formed the literature of earlier races
and have come down to us to be amplified and placed in modern form for the children of this age.

It has been said that in every child is seen the history of the race, and that from infancy
to manhood he typifies every stage of progress the race has seen. In early years he loves the
fables where animals speak, feel and act like human beings; for in former times mankind believed
the fables to be truth. A child peoples his world with fairies, good and bad, and believes
in the limitless power of magic. A little later he loves the deeds of the legendary heroes
and revels in the marvelous acts of the more than human beings in whom the ancients believed.
Later the stirring adventures of the real heroes of discovery and exploration, the heroic exploits
of warriors on land and sea, and the courageous acts of noble men and women in every walk in
life appeal to him; while still later, real history seizes the imagination of the youth, who
now looks for the causes of things and learns to trace out their effects. He learns to reason
and to separate truth from falsehood. Casting aside the wild tales of boyhood, he gathers up
instead the facts of life and experience, and draws his inspiration from the noble works of
the world's greatest writers.

2. Reading Stories

In the development of literary taste, fiction plays as prominent a part as fact, and to fiction,
considered in its broadest sense, every child is deeply indebted. Many err in thinking that
a stern diet of facts is the only nutriment the child mind needs, and still others err only
in a less degree when they look upon fiction as perhaps a necessary evil, but one which must
be avoided as much as possible and set aside at the earliest possible moment. All fiction has
in it some elements of truth, and they are the sources of the inspiration which comes to children
when, in their world of make-believe, they live with their beautiful and heroic friends of
the story books.

To read fiction properly is to get from it the truth, which, however, is often liable to be
lost by the reader in the excitement of the tale, or to pass undetected in the easy-running
sentences. As fictitious narratives in prose and poetry in the great majority of cases form
the larger part of children's reading, it is to them we should turn our attention. Before we
begin their specific study a few principles claim our attention:

Good stories are the most helpful things a child can read.

The more intelligently and sympathetically a story is read, the more powerful for good it is.

The imagination of a child is the most powerful agent in the development of his mind.

The imagination acts only to combine, enlarge, or diminish ideas that enter the mind. It never
creates.

On the nature of the ideas presented will depend the character of the imagination.

A vivid imagination fed with bad ideas is most destructive to human character. Good stories
with high ideals can do no harm: but evil stories, particularly if attractive and entertaining,
will undo the careful teaching of years.

As evil must appear in life, it may appear in stories, but it must be brought in in such a
way that it is known as evil, and children must be taught to recognize it as evil.

The motives which govern the words and actions of the persons who appear in a well-written
story are more easily discerned than the motives which actuate the human beings around us.
Thus a child who reads intelligently is helped to discover in the words and deeds of the people
whom he meets the elements of real character. A study of the heroes of fiction is a study in
human life.

Improbable stories and those presenting impossible or unreal things are not necessarily bad;
in fact they are often good and distinctly serviceable. No matter how true they appear to a
child, the time comes when he rejects them as impossible, although he may always be indebted
to them for keen pleasure and the awakening of his imagination. Belief in the myth of Santa
Claus never destroyed a child's love and respect for his parents; faith in the unlimited power
of good fairies never made a child less able to recognize the laws of nature. It is the halfway
truths that are troublesome; it is the little misrepresentations not liable to be detected
that may permanently deceive.

To understand the good and the true, to discriminate between the bad and the false, to find
pleasure that shall awaken, enliven and inspire, to arouse curiosity and interest in wider,
more thoughtful and helpful study, are some of the important aims of story-reading.

Purposeful reading on the part of children may be brought about by direct instruction from
parent or teacher or it may be acquired by the child through his own efforts. Manifestly the
former is the really efficient way and its efficiency may be increased if it is carried on
systematically. The following outline will assist those who have children in charge to do their
part easily and in the best manner.

In reading any story there are several things to be considered if one is to get the most out
of it. These things are mentioned in natural order in the outline, each item of which will
be treated at length in the pages immediately following.

In reading stories consider:

  Primarily,
    A. The Plot.
    B. The Persons.
    C. The Scenes.
  Secondarily,
    D. The Lesson.
    E. The Author's Purpose.
    F. The Method and Style of the Author.
    G. Emotional Power.

In the volumes of Journeys Through Bookland, intended as they are for reading by children,
it was not thought wise to make the studies extensive nor to attach much comment to the selections,
lest the young readers weary of the task or neglect it entirely. In this volume a different
case confronts us and we put the discussions on a higher plane. If these suggestions are used
in the instruction of children, some care in adaptation will be necessary. The age and sex
of the children, their advancement in their studies, their surroundings at home and in school,
will all need to be taken into account in determining what selections to use and how far to
carry the method. A good general principle to follow is to present to the children only so
much as will hold their interest; present it in the manner that will best retain their interest,
and change the subject or the method when interest flags.

Speaking in general terms, children are most interested in that of which they already know
something, and prefer to study intensively something which is "easy to read." The familiar
selections of old readers often are found to be alive with interest, if studied by a new method.
A method is understood most easily when it is applied to a simple subject; in this case, to
a story in which the youngest children will be interested. A word of caution may be worth while:
Especially with young children,--"Do not let the method be seen; it is the story that is to
be brought out."

It is evident that the Plot, the Persons and the Scenes of the story will interest children
of all ages; that all will be benefited by the Lesson if it is judiciously presented; but that
only the older children can be interested to any great extent in the Author's Purpose, Method
or Style or in the study of the Emotional Power of the selection, however much it may be felt.

A. The Plot

The main line of events leading up to the climax of interest in the story may be called the plot.

It is the plot that furnishes excitement, and for perhaps the majority of readers constitutes
the chief interest. In some stories the plot lies upon the surface all the time, and everything
is made subservient to the purpose of holding interest, keeping up excitement and mystifying
the reader until the climax is reached. Thrilling detective stories of the poorer class, exciting
love stories and the cheap juvenile tales of Indian fighting, with heroines in dire distress
and heroes struggling to rescue them, are illustrations of this type. No effort is made by
the author to make real human beings of his characters, and little or no profit comes to the
reader, while infinite harm may be done to minds craving excitement and finding in it nothing
to stimulate an interest in better things.

In the better stories of greater writers the plot still plays an important part, but while
it sustains interest unflaggingly, it carries with it other things which are of vastly greater
importance. In such stories the persons are living, breathing realities, and the reader feels
that he has added permanently to his list of tried and true friends. Tom Brown and Tiny Tim,
who live only in stories, are as much our friends as Henry Thompson and Rudolph De Peyster
who live in the next block. The great writer, moreover, takes us with him into new places,
among new scenes, so that Rugby becomes for a time our own school, and from Tim's poor hearth
there enters a warm Christmas glow into our doubting hearts. Although the plot is important,
yet all stories that enthral the mind with exciting incidents must be regarded with suspicion
until they prove their right to be considered real literature by furnishing higher interests
or greater inspiration.

To analyze the plot of a story, however, is always helpful; to arrange the incidents in order,
to determine which are necessary to the development of the story, and which are merely contributory
to the general interest, is an interesting and stimulating thing. The plot of short stories
may quite often be told in few words, and unless very complicated, the plot of a novel may
be given in a few sentences. In some stories, however, the plot is so loosely constructed and
of so little real importance that it is hardly more than a train of apparently equally important
incidents. Again, the plot is oftentimes so complicated by secondary plots and incidents that
even a careful reader becomes confused and loses his interest.

Let us consider the plot in such a story as Cinderella (Volume I, page 224). The main incidents
of the plot arrange themselves as follows:

1. Cinderella's mother dies.

2. Her father marries a widow, who has two daughters.

3. The stepmother sends Cinderella to the kitchen to work and to the garret to sleep.

4. The king's son gives a great ball to which he invites Cinderella's stepsisters.

5. The stepsisters require Cinderella to assist them to dress, and abuse her shamefully.

6. The sisters go to the ball, and Cinderella sits by the kitchen fire wishing she might accompany
them.

7. Her fairy godmother appears and sends her to the ball in fine style.

8. Cinderella, beautiful as a picture, dances with the prince, who falls in love with her.

9. The clock strikes twelve, and Cinderella goes back to the kitchen.

10. The stepsisters again mistreat Cinderella.

11. She goes to the ball the second day.

12. She forgets her godmother's warning, and after midnight rushes back home, leaving a single
slipper behind her.

13. The prince finds the slipper and searches for its owner.

14. The sisters fail in trying on the slipper, which is then fitted to Cinderella's foot.

15. The fairy godmother restores to Cinderella the appearance of a princess.

16. The prince marries Cinderella, and she forgives her stepsisters.

A summary of these main incidents may be given in a few words, which will contain the skeleton
of the plot. To say that a certain little girl who is shamefully treated by her stepsisters
is aided by her fairy godmother to attend a ball given by a prince, who finally marries the
little drudge, is to give the plot and really to tell all that the lax and superficial reader
gets from the story he peruses.

There are in this little story, however, a large number of minor incidents which contribute
to the interest, and if sought and placed in their relation to the main events will be found
to have added materially to the charm of the narrative.

For instance, when the fairy godmother sends Cinderella to the ball for the first time, children
are led to a vivid interest in the event by a series of fascinating incidents, as follows:

1. The fairy sends her into the garden for a pumpkin.

2. The godmother, scooping out the inside of the pumpkin, leaves the rind, which she taps three
times, and immediately it becomes a golden coach.

3. The fairy spies six mice alive in a trap.

4. Cinderella lets the mice out gently, and as the fairy touches them with her wand, each becomes
a fine, dapple-gray horse.

5. Cinderella brings the rats, the largest of which the fairy converts into a handsome postilion
with a fine pair of whiskers.

6. Cinderella finds the six lizards behind the watering pot, which become the six sedate and
dignified footmen clothed in livery.

7. Cinderella's rags are changed to wonderful clothing bedecked with costly jewels.

8. The beautiful glass slippers are provided.

How real these incidents all seem! What art is shown in bringing in real things to give food
to the imagination and to stimulate the interest that carries the little reader away from herself
where she may riot in the wonders her active mind can so readily conceive. Some time when she
has grown much older, and cares have wrinkled her smooth cheeks, she may see that the only
fairy godmother who can clothe a Cinderella is hard work, and that mice become dapple-grays,
and footmen are made from lizards behind watering pots only when she has earned the right to
them herself. Just now it is enough for her to see that fairy godmothers come to good children
only, and that good princes do not care if their wives have worked in the cinders, provided
they are beautiful in gentleness and service to others.

Children like to understand what they read, and are never so happy as when talking over their
favorite stories with those of their elders who have the power to enter sympathetically into
the child world. By no means do all boys and girls like to be taught; in fact there are not
many more certain ways of prejudicing a child against anything than by making it the subject
of a formal lesson. Still, every child loves to learn, and is seeking at every moment to add
to his information and to exercise his mind. Yet he must do it in his own way and with the
things in which he is interested. If those facts are borne in mind, no parent will have difficulty
in interesting his child or in leading the juvenile mind where it ought to go.

To apply these ideas to teaching the plot of such a story as Cinderella, let the parent who
loves his children, and who wishes to be no stranger to their interests, joys and sorrows,
seat himself among them some time and begin to read to them. Pausing now and then to explain
some word whose meaning may be obscure to them, or to comment on some phase of the story that
may be of special interest, let him read on to the end without attempting to do much more than
to make the story a vivid tale where the interest centers in the incident.

When the story has ended, the pleasure has but just begun. Children like to ask questions,
but they are no less ready to answer them if the questions are on things of interest, are related
to the things which children know and are put in such a way that the genuine interest of the
questioner is always evident. The I-know-it-all-and-you-know-nothing style of questioning;
the I'm-the-master-and-you're-the-pupil style; the because-I-ask-you-must-answer style are
all fatal to interest, and will soon prevent that hearty sympathy and living spirit of coöperation
that the parent wishes to secure.

If we suppose it is Cinderella that has been read, we may begin our questioning in this manner:

"That's a good story. I like it, don't you?--It is rather long, though; I've almost forgotten
how it began.--O, was that the first thing that happened?--Was the father a rich man?--Did
the story say he was rich or did you just think he was?--If he had not married a widow could
things have happened as they did?--How did the widow and her daughters treat Cinderella?--If
Cinderella had not been mistreated would her fairy godmother have come to her aid?--If the
fairy had not appeared could the story have been the same?--How did the fairy make the golden
coach?--Could she have made it out of anything else?--If she had made one just as good out
of something else, could Cinderella have gone to the ball just as well?--If Cinderella went
to the ball in good style did it matter how she went?--If Cinderella had not gone to the ball,
could she have met the prince?--Was it as important then that she should have a coach made
from a pumpkin as that she should go to the ball and meet the prince?--Can you think of something
else just as necessary to make the story come out right as that Cinderella should go to the
ball?--Can you think of other things that must have happened just as they did to make the story
come out right and just as it did?--Can you think of some things that might have happened differently
and still not have hurt the story at all?--Let us put together all the things that must have
happened to make the story right and leave out the things that could be changed. Now, what
are they?--Now let us find a few things we could leave out or change. What are some of them?--If
we left them out the story would come out the same, but would it be as good, as interesting?--Would
you like Cinderella as well if these little things had been left out?--Would you think as much
of the prince if he had found Cinderella right away as you do when he has to do so many hard
things before he finds her?"

Every one must realize the impossibility of providing a scheme of questioning that would fit
exactly any given case, but will not the above suggest a method that may lead to many a happy
and profitable evening at the family round table? Even if there are older children in the group
they will renew their interest in the old stories and get more good from them when it is seen
that father and mother do not deem it beneath their dignity, nor outside the range of their
interests, to read and study a fairy tale.

In Journeys Through Bookland are here and there outlines and questions designed to lead the
children to see for themselves what it is hoped others will take pleasure in showing them.
Examples of the selections which contain outlines, questions and comments designed to help
in the study of the plot may be found as follows:

  Volume I,     page 264.  The Twin Brothers.
  Volume I,     page 395.  Something.
  Volume II,    page 124.  The Snow Queen.
  Volume IV,    page 174.  Incident of the French Camp.
  Volume VIII,  page 364.  The Tempest.
  Volume IX,    page 232.  The Gold-Bug.

B. THE PERSONS

In most stories, be they brief and simple or as long and complicated as the two-volume novel,
the interest centers in one or more persons whose character the reader learns to understand,
and whose success or failure, joy or grief gives him pleasure or excites his sympathy. All
events center about the hero or heroes, and while other persons may be mentioned, and even
win the reader's attention for a time, they finally subside into the background and are remembered
only as they contribute to greater interest in the principal characters.

Every author tries to make his heroes and heroines speak and act like real human beings and
show their characters by their actions and their words. Sometimes, however, he tells the reader
just how his people look, feel and think, and describes their characters to give an interest
in what happens to them. A more interesting method and a more artistic one is to leave the
persons to disclose themselves as the story progresses, making them show by the way they act
and by what they say under certain circumstances the strong and weak qualities in their natures.
Nothing is more interesting than to watch the development of character in the hero of a story,
particularly when it is accomplished under conditions which are themselves interesting.

In studying the persons in a story, then, the chief things to keep in mind are the following:

1. The principal person, or hero--the one, or perhaps the ones, in whose fortunes the reader
is most vitally interested.

2. The secondary persons who are introduced merely to add variety or to throw light upon the
character of the hero, or to assist to bring about the events which center about him.

3. The appearance, dress and manners of the persons.

4. The ways in which the author makes his persons lifelike and shows the reader what they really
are.

5. The characters of the persons as they appear or as they are developed in the progress of
the story. This is the really important part of the study, the one which becomes increasingly
interesting as readers grow older and the stories they study become more and more complex and
difficult. The study of the characters of Shakespeare's heroes and heroines is more than interesting
pastime for men and women--it is good, hard work.

For a simple example of what is meant, let us undertake briefly the study of The Hardy Tin
Soldier (Volume I, page 148).

1. The hero is the Hardy Tin Soldier himself.

2. Persons of secondary importance are:

    a. The twenty-four brothers.
    b. The little boy.
    c. The Dancing Lady.
    d. The Goblin.
    e. The servant-maid.
    f. The two street boys.
    g. The Water Rat.
    h. The fish.
    i. The cook.

Of these the Dancing Lady is second only to the lame Soldier; the Goblin, the two street boys,
the little boy and the Water Rat are given considerable prominence, while the twenty-four brothers,
the servant-maid, the fish and the cook are introduced merely to effect a certain incident
or to give an air of truthfulness to the events. This is a fairy tale, and in it we must be
faithful to our juvenile friends, considering the Goblin, the Water Rat and the fish as real
persons, and the Tin Soldier as a very human being.

3. In appearance the Tin Soldier was tall and erect, but alas! he had only one leg! His uniform
was red and blue and very splendid. He carried his musket across his shoulder as a marching
soldier should, kept his eyes straight to the front, and stood very firmly upon his one foot.
In the fire he lost the tinsel and the color from his uniform, and when the Dancer joined him
he melted into a little tin heart.

4. While Andersen tells outright some of the characteristics of the little Soldier, he leaves
others to be inferred from acts. The Soldier thinks, and sometimes the reader is told just
what he thinks, but never once does he speak--to him silence is golden. Yet not once do we
miss his voice, and it is only when we have finished that we suddenly think what a silent little
body he is. That is part of the author's art. The Soldier never once moves his eyes, or changes
his attitude; the author never forgets that he is a tin soldier, but makes his every act consistent
with his stiffness and rigidity. That is more of the author's skill. There were other soldiers,
twenty-four of them, and all were brothers. A less skilful author would have stopped in the
telling of the fact, but Andersen adds in his whimsical, charming manner, "for they were all
born of one tin spoon." All the other brothers were perfect; our Soldier had but one leg, yet
"it was just this soldier who became remarkable." Even the missing leg creates an interest,
and Andersen uses it to center our attention upon his little hero.

5. Andersen tells us the following things about the Tin Soldier's character:

a. He stood firmly even with but one leg to balance himself upon.

b. He thought his box was not a place for a lady-wife who lived in a castle. This showed his
humility.

c. Yet he was very human--"I must make her acquaintance."

d. When he fell from the window, he put his leg straight up, stuck his helmet downward and
his bayonet between the paving stones.

e. He would not call loudly to the servant-maid because he was in the uniform of a soldier.

f. While in the boat rushing down the gutter, he trembled, but he never changed countenance,
and still looked straight before him.

g. He sighed for the little Lady's company, while passing through the drain.

h. He would not answer the Water Rat.

i. He stiffened himself and would not move an eyelid when the paper boat sank.

j. He lay unmoved even in the darkness of the fish's body.

k. He was not at all proud when he was rescued.

l. When he saw the Dancer again he very nearly wept tin tears, but he thought how improper
that would be, and kept them back.

m. He stood firm and shouldered his musket although the fire, or grief, made all the colors
leave him.

n. When the Dancer joined him in the flames he melted into a heart-shaped lump of tin.

What a fine little Tin Soldier he proves to be! Could any one be more loyal to his profession?
Body erect, eyes to the front, musket shouldered, every muscle at attention all the time, no
matter if he had but one leg to stand upon. He was brave as a lion, although once in the presence
of the direst danger he trembled a little, but he drove every sign of fear from his face and
stood his ground manfully. After he had once seen the Dancer and realized how similar her trials
must be to his, how constant he was in his devotion! At his death what could be more fitting
than to see him melt into a little heart-shaped mass, the symbol of his courage and constancy!
Why should we call him the hardy Tin Soldier; would it not have been better if the translator
had called him the constant Tin Soldier?

Now, when we give the hero of this pretty little story so much attention, does it not seem
worth while? Will not we, grown men and women, find so much in the hero that we may gather
our young friends about us and lead them to see how admirable a character he has and how beautifully
Andersen has shown it? If we talk not to the boys and girls, but with them, if we invite their
questions as to the Tin Soldier's character, and by our informal questions lead them to appreciate
the strength, courage, and devotion of the little toy, will they not get some taste for a good
story well written, and perhaps, learn some little lessons that will help them to be better
men and women?

Journeys furnishes you with many another fine story, equally interesting. There are a number
of the tales, too, which may call for your own best efforts in the study of character, and
from which even you may derive some genuine help in the heavy problems life thrusts upon you.

In many places, too, the present writer has appended outlines and questions which the young
people themselves may like to pore over and which may assist the inquiring parent even more
than the brief study above. The following are particularly suggestive:

  Volume I,     page 224.  Cinderella.
  Volume IV,    page  93.  A Dog of Flanders.
  Volume VIII,  page 335.  Dream Children.
  Volume VIII,  page 364.  The Tempest.

C. THE SCENES

One of the benefits of good reading is that it fills the mind with beautiful pictures of places
that we cannot visit or that live only in the eyes of the imagination. A powerful descriptive
writer takes his reader with him, and by graphic words makes visible and almost real the scenes
among which they wander. One may sit in the light of his study lamp during a black northern
winter and read himself away from the chill and dreariness into some warm, sunny clime where
flowers of new and rare forms flaunt their gorgeous colors and perfume the air with strange
delicious odors; great trees with tufts of far-reaching leaves cast their welcome shade, and
long vines trail gracefully from their living supports. Wonderful birds with brilliant plumage
flit about, as through the openings in the trees glimpses are given of long waves rolling gently
upon the glistening beach. It is only necessary to give free rein to the imagination and to
visualize the scenes that the skilful writer describes.

There are people of such literal minds that descriptive writing fails to appeal to them. It
is their misfortune. To others every word brings a picture that appears almost as vivid and
as full of detail as those upon which the material eye gazes. Like any other power of the mind,
this may be cultivated, even among the mature. Children are highly gifted with this power,
to begin with, and only a little training is necessary to make them use the faculty freely
for their own delight. Suggest to them the outlines of a picture, and see how rapidly they
will fill in the details.

No two can see precisely the same imaginary picture; in fact, no two people looking at the
same landscape will see precisely the same things, and if they are asked to describe what they
see, it will appear that things which are most vivid to one may have made little impression
upon the other. It is not to be expected, then, that two children reading a description of
some scene will get the same picture of it. Each will color his own from the previous impressions
and experiences he has had. Yet to each the picture may be very real and very pleasing. Good
teachers of reading spend much time and effort in teaching the young to visualize the scenes
of which they read, not only because of the pleasure it will afford the young when they are
mature, but because the power to see vividly is of greatest assistance in every department
of study.

In some stories little attention is given to the scene; in fact, the persons might appear anywhere
and not be in the least affected by their surroundings, and the events might have happened
in China as well as in England. Even then, however, there will be found mention of many things
that seem to give locality to the story. At the other extreme are writers who lose themselves
in descriptive flights and pause to describe a sunset while the heroine is perishing, and the
hero must stand helpless until the author has painted the last color in the sky. In the best
literature for children, description is so mingled with narrative that while there are fine
pictures to see, they do not fall in the way of the events which the young reader follows with
such breathless interest. In fact, the pictures aid the narrative.

There is of course in every story much descriptive writing that does not apply to the scenes
among which the plot is laid, yet it is well to make a study of description from the scenes,
for it is here that the author has his greatest opportunity for pictorial writing.

If the story is brief there may be but one scene. Everything may happen in one place, and none
of the surroundings may change. For instance, in the fable of The Dog and His Shadow (Volume
I, page 63) there is but one incident, which happens in one place. Such a simple story, however,
furnishes the material for a good picture, and in bringing it out to a child who reads or hears
the fable for the first time, the parent is giving good service that will lead to keener appreciation
and higher power of interpretation in his child's later years. What can be made out of this
picture, and how should it be done? Let us see:

The fable is told in simple words, and only plain facts are stated. What are the elements of
our picture? We can find only six, viz.: a big dog; a big piece of meat; day; a river; a narrow
bridge; the dog's image. Now if we were to draw a picture to illustrate this fable we would
begin with a general sketch. Should we show a level country, or are there hills about? Is it
barren and desolate, or are there trees? Are there houses near? Where did the dog get his meat?
Is it a large river, or only a small one? The bridge is narrow; has it a railing along the
side? Would the dog be liable to see his image if it was a wagon bridge? Was it then a mere
foot bridge? Would a single plank across a small stream answer the purpose? The dog is big;
is it a dog that knows and likes the water? Would you think it could be a Newfoundland dog?
What kind of a dog is it? It is day time; is the sun shining? Do you imagine it is morning
or noon, or that it is toward evening? In making your pictures would you draw the trees to
show the leaves blown by the wind? If the dog sees his image, is the water smooth or rough?
Is the stream rapid and rough, or smooth and placid?

While such questioning is going on both speaker and listener are seeing more clearly every
minute. Besides, in order to see accurately they are drawing on their own previous knowledge
and experience, and are reasoning just as truly as though they were solving a problem in arithmetic.

In every picture we form in our reading there are certain elements that we must accept and
include because the writer gives them to us. Other elements suggest themselves, and we accept
them and put them in place or reject them entirely. In the fable just discussed we are told
that the dog is big, the piece of meat is big, and the bridge is narrow. We may not see a small
dog with a little piece of meat on a big, wide bridge. Houses, trees, sedges on the river bank,
children playing by the side of the path, spring, summer or autumn foliage, or even snowclad
shores with black water between--any of these we may put into our picture, for the fable is
silent on these points. We must be accurate, and the parent can do no better service in reading
than to make his child see accurately whatever he sees at all.

The artist studies the selection he means to illustrate in just this way, and then draws his
picture. When we see his picture we may accept it as good and true to the conditions, or call
it poor and inapplicable. We should not be hasty, but should try to get his point of view before
we criticise. If he violates any of the fixed conditions of the story his work is bad; if he
gives us his interpretation and violates no fixed conditions, his work may be good or bad according
to the standards we set up: are we always certain that our standards are correct?

In the fable The Fox and the Stork (Volume I, page 73) the artist has given us two beautiful
pictures which in themselves tell almost the entire story, and his pictures are almost wholly
from his own imagination, for there was given him to work with very little more than a fox,
a stork, a wide dish and a vase. Such a pictorial imagination as he possessed is what should
be cultivated in children. If they can be encouraged to draw what they see, they not only fix
their own impressions, but they learn to see more vividly and more accurately.

In long stories there are many scenes; it may be that no two incidents happen in the same place.
In the drama, which contains all the elements of the story, the scenes are limited in number,
are fixed and unchanging and after the reader has arranged his scenery he may give his attention
exclusively to the dialogue because he knows there will be no change in the scene. In the story
the reader may need to be constantly alert, as when his hero takes a long and perilous journey
the scenes may change with the quickness of a kaleidoscope, and yet all be important to the
narrative. The more complex the story, the greater the variety in scene, and consequently the
greater the opportunities for study. It is interesting work for children to pick out the scenes,
to count them and then to compare them. Some of them are more vividly portrayed than others.
Why? Some are more important as descriptions, and some because of the incidents occurring in them.

Sometimes, especially in speaking of the drama, the word scene is applied not only in its literal
sense, but also to include not merely the place but the incidents that happen in the place,
as well.

For instance, we may say, "The quarrel between Brutus and Cassius is a wonderful scene in Julius
Cæsar." Again, the word is used sometimes to mark the division of a play, as when we speak
of the second scene in the first act of Macbeth. For our purposes, however, in our early reading
with children, let us use it to signify only the place where events happen.

An author may tell us at the beginning of a story that the scene is laid in London, or in Calcutta,
or in the Black Forest; but unless he employs some method of giving a vivid impression of the
setting of the story, we soon lose sight of locality. Sometimes, of course, it is not necessary
that we should remember the place--the story moves on independent of scene; but other stories
depend in part for their interest and even for their plot upon their setting. In such cases,
the author, by reference to the natural features characteristic of a region, or to the peculiar
traits or mannerisms or turns of speech of his characters, keeps before us the place in which
the scene is laid. Such peculiarities of a place or its inhabitants, when introduced into a
story, are given the name of local coloring.

In A Christmas Carol (Volume VI, page 244), Dickens meant that we should be conscious throughout
not only of a Christmas atmosphere, but of an English Christmas atmosphere. The references
to the Christmas feeling are too obvious to require pointing out, but the methods by which
the author makes us conscious that we are in London do not show so clearly at first sight.
By a study of the paragraph which begins in the middle of page 253, and of the one immediately
following it, we may get some idea of these methods.

"Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so, that the people ran about with flaring links."
A London boy would not need a footnote to tell him that the fogs of London are famous; that
they are at times so thick that all traffic is obliged to cease. Nor would he need to be told
that links are torches of tow and pitch, which enterprising London boys provided themselves
with at foggy times, that they might earn money by piloting people about. The word brazier,
too, is in commoner use in England than it is in the United States. The poulterers' trade is
another English touch.

Every one knows that the Lord Mayor is the chief official of the city of London, but perhaps
we do not all know that Mansion House, with its great banqueting-hall where the state dinners
are held, is the residence of the Lord Mayor.

Now-a-days we all know what English plum pudding is--it is served at many American tables on
Christmas day. But nothing is more characteristically English, unless, indeed, it is the roast
beef, not turkey, which the tailor was planning to have for his Christmas dinner.

Probably no one but an English writer, writing of an English subject, would refer in Dickens's
off-hand manner to Dunstan, the English statesman and archbishop who accomplished so much for
religion that he came to be known as Saint Dunstan.

One of the most characteristically English touches in the two paragraphs is the reference to
the carol sung by the boy at Scrooge's keyhole. Other countries have Christmas carols, but
the custom of singing them before people's houses is peculiarly common in England. The carol
of which the first two lines are quoted is perhaps the one most frequently sung.

These instances will give some idea of what is meant by local color, and of the methods used
in securing it. It will be an interesting study to find other words and phrases in the remainder
of the story which strengthen our feeling of the "Englishness" of A Christmas Carol.

Journeys Through Bookland furnishes an abundance of good stories of fine descriptive power.
A few of the best are the following:

  Volume II,  page 405.  The King of the Golden River.  The Attack on the Castle.
  Volume VI,  page 173.  Sohrab and Rustum.

D AND E. THE LESSON AND THE AUTHOR'S PURPOSE

The stories of the present day are many of them written with the avowed purpose of mere entertainment.
The author is satisfied if his work sells, and cares nothing for the lesson he may teach, although
by means of false views of life he may do ineffaceable harm to the minds of his readers. Many
of the popular magazines and other periodicals, not even excepting some of those published
especially for children, are full of light reading which vitiates the taste and may even undermine
character by its seductive influence. In the effort to be entertaining the recent writers for
children have only too frequently sacrificed strength and virility to a fascinating brilliancy
that seizes the imagination of youthful readers and gives no material for subsequent growth.
The earlier writers, those who produced the great classics which still are the most inspiring
things in our language, were actuated by nobler motives. To them literature was not a trade,
but a high calling, to which the writer came as a priest approaches his altar. Such a writer
held a high purpose and kept it in view, often giving hours of thought and the best of his
genius to work that the modern story writer neglects entirely or passes over with hasty evasion.

The purpose of the author is always a subject of interesting inquiry, and whenever it appears
a serious one it is worthy our careful study. The novel is often the medium of conveying the
results of deep study into human character, and a few of the greatest stories have been epoch-making
in their effect upon the human race.

As the fiction which children read has a profound influence in the formation of character,
it should always be examined with greatest care to see that the author's purpose is a laudable
one and that he carries it out in such a way that the lesson is wholesome and salutary. Some
stories may be entertaining merely--they are for the play-spells of the imagination; others
should be instructive--they are for hours of study and reflection; a third class should be
invigorating and inspiring, full of good lessons of high moral import--they are for times of
stress, or the still hours when character is made.

If, however, the purpose of the author is too evident, if his lesson is too obvious, none are
so quick to catch the fact as wide-awake childish readers. The author who lugs instruction
and information into his stories will find the boys and girls skipping all that he values,
or laying down his books with laughter and derision. The writer who moralizes may find his
work to be immoral in its effect on his juvenile readers, or may see his stories relegated
to the overloaded bargain counters.

In the same sense, it is often unwise to dwell long upon the moral of a story or even to point
it out if it be at all evident. There is no phase of teaching reading that requires such careful
thought or such fine discrimination from the parent as that which relates to the lesson of
the story. It is often better to let the selection do its own work than to try to elaborate
its purpose. Yet a skilful and sympathetic leader, one quick to read the feelings of his young
listeners, may often render his greatest service in free conversations about what the story
teaches. It would seem that no one could do this quite as well as the parent who has known
his boys and girls from infancy and can see in his offspring those very traits of character
which have been to his own advantage or detriment.

More will be accomplished by questioning with occasional comments than by preaching, more by
showing the help the story gives to the questioner than by trying to foist its assistance upon
the hearer. "Now there is a fine lesson for you, my boy. I want you to remember it," is not
half so effective as "That idea seems good to me. I've often thought about it but never seemed
to realize it so much. I shall try to remember it." Wouldn't you, dear parent, rather learn
with your friend than to have him always instructing you? "What do you think of that, John?"
is much more apt to help the boy than "You must see it this way, John." Are you not, dear parent,
rather proud of your own judgment, and do you not suppose your son has inherited your feeling
to some extent at least?

We heard the old fables in our babyhood and read them in Latin as we grew older, and we still
are fond of them, though the "morals" have long since been forgotten. Those wise lessons so
graphically presented have helped to form our characters, but not through the formal "moral"
at the end. Beware of "Haec fabula docet."[189-1]

As a further suggestion of method we may consider for a few moments that beautiful but sad
little story of Andersen's, The Fir Tree (Volume II, page 68). Every good story is worth reading
more than once, and every good method of teaching involves more than one reading. In this instance
as children read or listen, they are first interested in the story as a story; that is, in
the plot. They enjoy the adventures of the Fir Tree and may feel for it in its misfortunes,
but their interest is in the tale. When they have read to the end, however, they will be interested
in the appearance of the tree, their hero, and in the other characters which give vitality
to the story. Then the scenes may be talked over, and varied enough they are to excite real
interest as the story is read now with the definite purpose of seeing the pictures Andersen
has sketched. With all this in mind the children are ready to think over it again and learn
the lesson the great prose-poet meant to give. If the character of the Fir Tree is well understood,
the lesson almost tells itself, for ambition, arrogance and discontent are seen as the traits
that make for unhappiness. The Fir Tree might have been happy many times if it had only been
content. At the worst it gave happiness to others, and therein, perhaps, filled its place in
the world. Human beings must often find their pleasure in giving happiness to others and must
be content to know that they are of service to others. Some of the lessons of The Fir Tree
are rather hard for little folks to understand, and there is something in the charming story
for those older readers that have hearts young enough to see the meaning.

Study the purpose in the following:

  Volume I,   page 414.  The Ugly Duckling.
  Volume II,  page 124.  The Snow Queen.

F. THE METHOD AND STYLE OF THE AUTHOR

Small children are not interested in considering the way in which an author tells his story,
nor the methods he employs to secure attention and excite interest. Yet there comes a time
when such a study is highly pleasing to inquiring youth. It is desirable always that children
should early begin to appreciate the difference in the way plots are handled, to discriminate
between a tale that is well told and one that is poorly told. At an early age boys delight
in stories that are full of the excitement of adventure, conflict and mystery. Their craving
is natural enough and must be satisfied. At such time they will read little or nothing else
unless they are driven to it, and to compel them to read what they do not want is to make them
hate reading for the time being and perhaps permanently. In time they will outgrow the taste--it
is nothing to be feared if properly guided. The danger lies in the fact that they may find
the excitement they wish in stories that are really immoral, or that are so poorly written
that they destroy all taste for fine literature. The right course is to supply plenty of reading
in which excitement abounds, where Indians stalk the woods, pirates rove the seas, and knights
fight for their lady-loves, but always in stories that are so well told that the taste for
good reading is cultivated unconsciously as the boy reads. Treasure Island is bloody enough
for the most exacting boy, and it bears many a reading, for it is so charmingly told that long
after the cry, "Pieces of eight, pieces of eight," has ceased to make the welcome chills run
up and down the boy's back, he returns to the story for the pleasure he finds in the style
of Stevenson. In later years the boy will write better and speak better for having read the story.

However, the parent may do much to help his child along by calling attention to vivid figures
of speech, to happy expressions of all kinds, and to those graceful touches of humor and pathos
that are so characteristic of Andersen, Stevenson, Ruskin, Kingsley, and other great writers
for boys and girls. No child who can read well for himself is too young to appreciate a good
figure of speech if the comparison is based upon something falling within his own experience.

What does the poet say? "The stars appeared in the sky." In saying it what does he make us
feel? As we repeat the lines we see the immense expanse of the heavens, and as we gaze, the
sparkling dots of light appear silently, slowly, one after another, just as beautiful flowers
appear as the early morning light gilds the green meadows. We think, too, in the poet's fanciful
way, that these are no common flowers, but exquisite tokens of the loving care the angels have
over us, and a gentle reminder that always should we trust in them.

Often the highest sentiment is clothed in lines whose figures, most beautiful in themselves,
exalt the spirit as ordinary expressions could never do.

Is it not well for the parent to lead his child to see such things in literature, to search
for them, and when they are found to treasure them and bring them for mutual enjoyment into
the family circle?

G. EMOTIONAL POWER

Fiction appeals strongly to feeling and stimulates the growth of that series of great emotions
that make so large a part of character. It may excite ambition and a thirst for power or wealth
or give an impulse to labor and self-denial; it may teach us sympathy and love for our fellow-men,
or arouse anger, hatred and defiance; it may give us a keener discrimination of right from
wrong and lead us far on our search for truth, even into the calm of religious beliefs.

We see the play of emotions in the imaginary persons that pass before us, and as we learn to
love our new friends, their influence passes out to us through the words of the gifted author.
Bob Cratchit's tender love (Volume VI, page 304) makes us more considerate of the sick and
helpless; Tom Brown's manly defense of his praying schoolboy friend (Volume V, page 472) leads
us to new respect and admiration for the boy who lives up to his principles, and drives us,
perhaps, to begin again upon the duties we have neglected.

By studying with the children the feelings the characters in a story exhibit, the parent may
give the best of moral lessons without the appearance of so doing and more effectively than
by countless reprimands and formal orders.

As a suggestion of method we offer an outline based upon Rab and His Friends (Volume VI, page
99), one of the most touching stories ever written, a series of incidents that appeal to every
holy emotion.

Rab, the great mastiff, claims first place in our minds, dog though he is; but James and Ailie
are such lovable beings that we never can forget them.

The story has been read through; we have followed the simple incidents to their pathetic climax;
we have learned to know Rab by sight and to recognize his sterling character; James the honest,
tender-hearted carrier, and gentle, suffering Ailie, his wife, have taken their places among
the dear friends our imagination has created; we have noted the power of the author, his humor,
his scholarly English and his sympathetic touch. We may have read the story more than once--at
any rate we have read portions of it several times, so we can trace the emotions that are felt
by the noble dog.

Page 100: When the little white bull terrier fastens himself upon Rab's throat and the strong
muzzle prevents the big fellow from defending himself, "his whole frame stiffens with indignation
and surprise." "He looked a statue of anger and astonishment."

After Rab had been released from his muzzle and had killed the little terrier, "he looked down
at his victim appeased, ashamed and amazed."

Page 103: When his master aimed a kick at him, he "drew cringing up" and "slunk dismayed under
the cart."

Page 104: He was pleased when the medical student scratched his huge head, and anxious, when
no notice was taken of him.

When he first came to the hospital he felt pride and condescension, "like the Duke of Wellington
entering a subdued city."

Page 106: When James handed Ailie from the cart, "Rab looked on concerned and puzzled."

Page 106: In the consulting room Rab was filled with suspicion and uneasiness; he was "grim
and comic," and eyed all three.

When Ailie was put to bed and Rab was permitted to enter the room he "slunk in," half-ashamed,
but fully determined.

Page 107: Rab valued himself highly, but felt no conceit: he "had the dignity and simplicity
of great size," and the "gravity of all great fighters."

Page 109: Rab felt perplexity and anger, "forever cocking his ear and dropping it as fast,"
when Ailie entered the operating room.

Afterward in Ailie's room he felt fear, anxiety and a desire to help, and showed "how meek
and gentle he could be, occasionally, in his sleep, letting us know he was demolishing some
adversary."

Page 110: Rab continued to feel a sense of depression, sadness and anxiety; during his walks
with the medical student he was "sombre and mild; declined doing battle--submitted to sundry
indignities."

While Ailie seemed to be recovering Rab felt kindliness and subdued joy, though resentment
lay close beneath the surface; he was "reconciled, and even cordial," had "made up his mind
that as yet nobody required worrying," but was always prepared for it.

Page 111: As Ailie grew worse, grief and fear began to take possession of Rab; he "subsided
under the table into a dark place, and was motionless."

Page 112: When Ailie called in delirium, her strained voice filled Rab with surprise, astonishment
and a sense of guilt; he started up "surprised, and slinking off as if he were to blame somehow,
or had been dreaming he heard."

Page 114: At Ailie's death Rab was overwhelmed with grief; he licked her hand which was hanging
down "all over carefully, looked at her, and returned to his place under the table."

The dog's feeling of duty, obligation and devotion was shown when he leaped upon the bottom
of the bed "and settled himself, his head and eye to the dead face."

Page 115: Rab remained in statu quo till the carrier returned; love and devotion filled his heart.

Page 115: His grief wholly absorbed him; he did not notice his medical friend when the cart
left the hospital.

Page 117: After the carrier's death, grief wore down the dog's brave spirit; he became discouraged,
impatient, resentful; "he was aye gur gurrin', and grup gruppin'." Yet he was faithful to his
trust, for he was only impatient and resentful when a stranger came and interfered in the business
of the dead carrier.

It is evident that the study of emotions is to a great extent a study of character, and that
in this instance, we have given a tabulation of Rab's traits of character. It is through the
showing of his feelings that Rab influences us. A little introspection shows that we are feeling
just what the dog feels, or that some emotion is aroused in us that responds to the feeling
of the dog. We are not exactly surprised when the bulldog grips Rab, but we are indignant that
he should have no chance to defend himself--we would be among the first to slit the muzzle.
We may not be pleased that Rab killed the bulldog, but we are glad that Rab defended himself.
We realize the strength of the mastiff's powerful jaws, and are not amazed at what he did--we
are now rather inclined to feel sympathy for the helpless little terrier.

So we might go on incident by incident and compare our feelings with those of Rab, but that
would require much space and perhaps it would not be of great benefit to the reader, for our
feelings may not be his feelings, and the things which arouse him may have little effect upon
another. It is sufficient to call attention to the value of analysis, and show that self-study
is a valuable adjunct to reading.

It is well that most children are not likely to indulge to any great extent in introspection,
for too much is injurious. However, it can do the young no harm for them to study the feelings
of others, and now and then examine their own emotions. By so doing, they may learn that some
reading, which is destructive to peace and productive of unpleasant or evil feelings, should
be avoided.

GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND REFLECTIONS

The studies so far given are comprehensive, and are suited to all forms of fictitious narrative.
Most of the illustrations have been drawn from the simpler tales in the earlier volumes, but
the studies are equally applicable to the more difficult selections of the later volumes, and
may be easily adapted by the parent to children of any age. The restrictions of space have
compelled us to offer but one set of studies here, but there are many simpler and many more
difficult ones scattered through the books where the juvenile readers will find them, and it
is hoped become interested in them. In another place we have shown parents how these may be
found easily and used consecutively if they wish so to use them.

The studies here given serve to systematize the work and enable parents to see the logic of
the plans. Children are not interested in the studies as such, nor in the plan, and, in fact,
are liable to be repelled if the machinery of instruction is evident.

Fortunately, children like to read many times the things they enjoy, and should always be encouraged
to do so. But they are likely to read stories over and over again, for the plot only, and to
become so fascinated by it as never to notice the more valuable and intrinsically more interesting
things the narrative contains.

Yet every person who reads or tells stories to young children has without doubt often noticed
how insistent they are upon verbal accuracy. The story must be told the third time just as
it was the first and second times. This means that they are sensitive to the thing as a perfect
whole, and feel that any change mars the beauty of the story as a scratch mars the face of
a favorite doll, or a broken seat spoils the toy buggy.

There comes a time when, if you give a boy a mechanical toy, he is more interested in how it
is made than in the running of it. He wants to "take to pieces" everything he has. Then he
will enjoy analytical work on a story if he is led to it intelligently. Then the old stories
come in for new readings, "to see how they are made," to find something in them that he never
found before.

The style of reading which a child does when he is "looking for something" is very different
from his reading when he is absorbed in the story. Suppose he is trying to find out what kind
of a man is James, in Rab and His Friends. He forgets for a time the story, and reads rapidly
along, merely running his eye over the pages, watching intently for the word James, or the
word carrier. When either of the words appears he stops to read carefully. He may have to go
back a few words, perhaps to the beginning of a paragraph, all the time with his attention
fixed exclusively upon what is said about James. When he has read it on the first page, he
skims along to the next one and stops again. This is reading intelligently for a purpose, and
is really one of the most valuable kinds of reading, the kind he will use most frequently when
he is a man, the one that will save time for him when in later years he most needs it. It is
the style of reading, too, that is much neglected in the schools.

To analyze the character of the hero of a story is as practical a lesson in life as any child
can gain. In trying to discern the springs of action, in seeing how words and acts show character,
and how dress and appearance indicate what a person really is, he is learning to understand
his acquaintances and to judge whether they merit his trust and confidence, or are to be regarded
with suspicion and disdain. This is the practical wisdom without which many a man has found
himself the victim of misplaced confidence, or allowed himself to be led into temptations he
could not resist by those who professed friendship for him.

Again, when studying the scenes, a child is learning to picture vividly and exactly, and is
training his mind to close discrimination. He is training himself to avoid the mistakes that
the careless reader makes. Many a man has found himself paying for careless reading, because
he did not see a thing exactly as it was described to him.

At the risk of repetition we have argued again for the reading of stories in the different
ways and for the different purposes suggested, for we know that the parent who will follow
these plans will interest his children, will see them improve, and will find them growing nearer
to him, while he will be more of a companion, less of a ruler. In so doing he may forget some
of the cares of the day and find himself growing younger, more contented and happier as his
family reaches the age when it can take care of itself. Then, later, when the long years of
old age have come, it may be that the parents will discover that while they read and worked
with their children they taught themselves to find in reading a solace for their loneliness.

It is scarcely necessary to say that many of these latter comments and suggestions are as applicable
to reading other kinds of literature as they are to the reading of stories, but stories form
so large a part of a child's reading that it has seemed best to place them in this connection.
Many essays contain something of narration, and not infrequently an incident forms the basis
of a beautiful lyric. In print these studies may appear formal and forbidding, but where they
are presented in a conversational manner, they become attractive and inspiring.

Completed Studies

The Hare and the Tortoise

(Volume I, page 71)

A. The Plot. The slow Tortoise and the speedy Hare ran a race. The Hare, full of conceit, loitered
and slept by the way, while the Tortoise won in his plodding fashion.

Incidents:

   1. The Hare derides the Tortoise.
   2. The Tortoise challenges the Hare.
   3. The Fox becomes judge and holds the stakes.
   4. The race begins in heat and dust.
   5. The Hare takes a rest and a nap.
   6. The Tortoise in comfort passes the Hare.
   7. The Hare awakes, thinks the Tortoise behind, and stops to eat.
   8. The Hare discovers that the Tortoise has passed and begins his
      pursuit.
   9. The Hare finds the Tortoise at the brook.
  10. The Fox awards the money to the Tortoise.

B. The Persons. There are three characters in the story: the Hare, the Tortoise and the Fox.

1. The Hare. He is a small, long-legged animal, who can leap long distances and run like the
wind. In character he is unkind, impudent, proud and lazy.

2. The Tortoise. He is a clumsy, short-legged turtle, who carries a heavy box-shell around
his body. He cannot jump at all, and he moves very slowly, flat on the ground, even his tail
dragging in the dust. But he is wise, steady, not easily discouraged, and sticks to his task
till it is done.

3. The Fox. He is a wise old judge, who cannot let the loser go without a word of advice.

C. The Scene. The race takes place along a dusty road on a hot day. There is a big clover patch,
where the Hare rests, and at the end of the course is a cool and delightful brook or river.

D. The Author's Purpose and the Lesson. The author of this old fable intended to teach the
lesson that he puts into the last sentence, "Steady-going wins the race."

E. The Method and Style of the Author. His method is to teach a truth by means of an interesting
story. His style is graphic and dramatic. He gives three animals the power to talk, and he
makes them talk so that they seem almost like real human beings. At any rate, he makes us see
the character of each very clearly.

F. Emotions. We see in the Hare the feelings of conceit, contempt, and laziness; of surprise,
fear, and excitement; of chagrin and disappointment. In the Tortoise we see a little of resentment
and some self-confidence; then courage, determination, and persistence; at last, calm enjoyment
and joy at winning. The Fox looks on as we do, and has confidence in the Tortoise and a little
spice of contempt for the Hare. Then he is pleased that the Tortoise should win, and enjoys
giving the Hare a stinging bit of advice.

G. Conclusion. It is because the little fable has so much in it that it has lived for centuries,
and you have only to speak to any cultivated person about the Hare and the Tortoise to remind
him that "Steady-going wins the race."

The preceding analysis shows what a parent should expect to bring out from a little child,
reading the fable for the first time, or from an older boy or girl making a careful study of
fables. In both cases, however, the facts should be brought out by questions, with the expectation
that the juveniles would not express themselves in anything like the words given above.

The Fox and the Crow

(Volume I, page 64)

The following analysis of The Fox and the Crow shows the method as it might appear in actual
use with small children. It should be remembered, however, that no two persons will ask the
same questions and that no two children will answer them in the same manner. Bring out the
thoughts and keep the children interested while it is being done. Rapid, clearcut questions
which do not suggest the answer are the kind to use. Whenever there is hesitation or doubt,
refer to the story. The story, plus the child's imagination and reason, must give the answers.
If other facts are needed, the questioner should supply them or show where they may be learned.

A. The Plot.

Question. What was the first thing that happened in this little story?

Answer. The Fox saw a Crow fly off with a piece of cheese in its mouth.

Q. What next?

A. The Crow lit on a branch of a tree.

Q. Next?

A. The Fox made up his mind to get the cheese.

Q. What did he do then?

A. He walked to the foot of the tree.

Q. What next did he do?

A. He flattered the Crow and asked her to sing.

Q. What did the Crow do?

A. She cawed and dropped the cheese.

Q. What did the Fox do?

A. He snapped up the cheese and ran off.

Q. Did he do anything more?

A. Yes. He gave the Crow some advice.

Q. Now tell me the story in as few words as possible.

A. A Fox saw a Crow with some cheese in her mouth. He flattered her and asked her to sing.
When she cawed she dropped the cheese and the Fox ran away with it.

B. The Persons.

Question. Can a Fox talk, or a Crow sing?

Answer. No.

Q. Do they seem like persons in this story?

A. Yes.

Q. Let us think of them as persons, and see what kind of people they are. We will talk about
the Fox, first. What do you think he looked like?

A. Like a saucy little dog with bright eyes, a long sharp nose, and a bushy tail.

Q. When he said, "That's for me," what did you learn about him?

A. That he was hungry; that he was greedy; that he meant to get the cheese.

Q. When he began to flatter the Crow, what did you think of him?

A. That he was sharp; that he was trying to fool the Crow.

Q. What did you think of him when he said that her voice was finer than the voices of the other
birds, just as her coat was?

A. He was really flattering. Before, he was telling some truth, for her feathers were glossy
and her eyes were bright.

Q. Did he really think she could sing?

A. No. He knew she could only caw. He was lying, then.

Q. What did he say after she had dropped the cheese?

A. "That was all I wanted."

Q. And then?

A. "Do not trust flatterers."

Q. Did the Fox mean it?

A. Yes. But he was plaguing her, sneering at her. He wasn't really sincere.

Q. Now tell me what you've learned about the Fox.

A. He was a lively animal that looked like a dog, with a long nose and bushy tail. He was smart,
wise, knew how to flatter and get what he wanted. But he was a liar and a mean fellow all around.

Q. Now, let us study the Crow. What did she look like?

A. She was a big black bird with glossy feathers and a bright eye. She had a big black bill
and black wings.

Q. Did she have a good voice for singing?

A. No. She could only say "caw, caw, caw," in a hoarse, croaking voice.

Q. Where was she?

A. On the limb of a tree.

Q. Could the Fox reach her?

A. No. She was safe.

Q. What did she think of herself?

A. She thought she was pretty and smart and could sing.

Q. What would you say of her manners?

A. She was proud and conceited and foolish, silly. She thought she could sing, but she was
silly and proud and conceited. She was too easily fooled by the lies and flattery of the fox.

C. The Scene.

Question. Where were the Fox and the Crow?

Answer. Outdoors, somewhere.

Q. Were they near a house?

A. I think so, because the Crow had cheese in her mouth.

Q. Was it a prairie country?

A. Perhaps, but there was one tree near.

Q. Was it day, or night?

A. Daytime, I think. Crows do not hunt at night, but foxes do.

Q. Tell me all you know or can guess about the place where the bird and fox were.

A. I think they were on the edge of the woods, not very far away from a farmhouse. One tree
stood out by itself, and the Crow flew from the farmhouse to the lone tree.

D. and E. The Lesson and the Author's Purpose.

Question. This is an old, old story, and it has been told in many languages. We cannot be sure
who first wrote it. But what do you suppose the writer meant the story to do?

Answer. He meant it to teach a good lesson, I think.

Q. What is the lesson?

A. That foxes are tricky animals; that crows are silly birds; that flattery and lying are bad;
that it is foolish to trust anyone who flatters you.

Q. Does that mean you do not trust people who praise you?

A. Oh, no. Praise is all right. Everybody likes to be praised.

Q. What is the difference between praise and flattery?

A. When a person praises you he tells the truth, and tells it because he likes you, and wants
to help you; but when he flatters you, he lies and deceives you, and does it to fool you, because
he wants you to do something for him, or to get something you have.

Q. How can we tell whether we are being praised or flattered?

A. We must be sharp and know ourselves and what we really can do. Then we will know whether
others are speaking the truth about us.

F. The Method and Style of the Author.

Question. What do you call a story like this?

Answer. A fable.

Q. Why is it a fable?

A. Because it's short; because animals talk and act like human beings; because it teaches a
good lesson.

Q. Do you call this story "slow"?

A. No. It's a quick, lively one.

Q. What do you think makes it so?

A. There are not too many words; the Fox and the Crow are interesting; there is a lot of talking;
we can see the Fox and the Crow; they act like human beings.

Q. Are there any good sentences you would like to remember?

A. Yes: "Do not trust flatterers."

G. Emotional Power.

Question. How did the Fox feel when he saw the Crow with the cheese in her mouth?

Answer. He was hungry; he wanted the cheese; he made up his mind to get it.

Q. How did he feel when he was flattering the Crow?

A. He felt jolly; he thought it was fun to fool the Crow.

Q. How did he feel when he got the cheese?

A. He was pleased; he was happy; he did not pity the Crow; he laughed at the Crow when he gave
her advice.

Q. How did the Crow feel when she flew off with the cheese?

A. She was happy.

Q. How did she feel while the Fox was flattering her?

A. She was proud and vain and felt sure she could sing.

Q. When she dropped the cheese?

A. She was disappointed; she was sorry she had tried to sing; she knew she had been fooled,
and was ashamed.

Q. Did she like the advice the Fox gave her?

A. No, but she thought it was good advice.

Q. Do you think the Fox could fool her again?

H. Conclusion.

Now, read the fable all through just as well as you can. (It is read.) Now, Harry, you be the
Fox, and read just what he says. Clara, be the Crow, and read just what she says. Tom may be
the story teller, and read just the descriptions. Now, watch your parts so there will be no
delay, and try to speak just as though you are really what you are representing. Tom may read
the first paragraph, and the fourth, but may omit entirely those words that are not spoken
in the other paragraphs. Begin, Tom.

The Drummer

(Volume I, page 303)

The fairy stories of the brothers Grimm are inferior to those of Andersen in plot, lesson and
style. The plots are more monotonous and sometimes unnecessarily coarse and rough; the lessons
are more obscure and sometimes are of doubtful value; and the style is much less forcible,
in fact is often labored and inelegant. Yet many of the stories are attractive and harmless.
They may be used to make the transition from fairy tales to more elevated literature. Their
very imperfections can be utilized to discourage the reading of fairy tales and by criticism
and gentle ridicule a child can be led away from that type of stories which though harmless
when read in moderation have been made so attractive by modern writers that children fancy
them too much and cling to them long after they should be reading things of much greater value.
If children are led to study fairy stories, absurdities in them soon become tiresome. Ordinarily
they read merely for the excitement in the tale, for the effect it has upon their naturally
vivid imaginations. If they are led to think, to analyze, their intelligence will quickly call
for something more substantial, more nearly true to life.

The Drummer is one of the best of the Grimm stories and yet some of their weaknesses are evident.
It is inadvisable to talk to small children of studying a story. They are always delighted
to see their parents interested and will be very glad to "talk over" the story. In this particular
tale there are many points of interest that may be brought up by skilful questioning and many
places where comments may be made, comments that will show the attitude of the adult mind without
raising opposition on the part of the juvenile reader. Some of the subjects suggested by a
reading of The Drummer are the following:

I. Characters. Taken in the order of their appearance in the story the characters are:

  1. The Drummer
  2. The King's Daughter
  3. The First Giant
  4. The Second Giant
  5. The Third Giant
  6. The Two Men Quarreling
  7. The Witch
  8. The Drummer's Parents
  9. The Maiden

II. What the Characters Do.

1. The Drummer finds the piece of cloth, goes to the mountain of glass, deceives the two quarreling
men, flies to the top of the mountain, visits the witch, performs the three tasks, throws the
witch in the fire, goes to his home, kisses his parents on their right cheeks, forgets the
princess, gives her jewels away, gets ready to marry the maiden, remembers the princess, rewards
the maiden and marries the princess.

2. The King's Daughter asks for her dress, tells the Drummer where she is confined, helps the
Drummer in his three tasks, advises the Drummer how to destroy the witch, takes the Drummer
to his parents, waits in the field for the Drummer, sings her song three times, forgives and
marries the Drummer.

3. The First Giant talks with the Drummer and carries him through the woods on his back.

4. The Second Giant carries the Drummer in his button hole.

5. The Third Giant carries the Drummer on his hat.

6. The Two Men quarrel, talk with the Drummer, race to the white staff and lose the saddle.

7. The Witch gives the Drummer food and shelter, assigns three tasks, requires the log to be
brought from the fire, tries to carry off the King's Daughter, and dies in the flames.

8. The Drummer's Parents welcome their son, accept the jewels of the King's Daughter, build
a palace, choose a maiden for their son's wife, but receive the princess in her place.

9. The Maiden is willing to marry the Drummer but is satisfied with his presents instead.

III. The Good and the Bad Characters.

1. The Drummer was brave, kind to his parents and loved the princess, but he tricked the two
quarreling men, and disobeyed and forgot the princess.

2. The King's Daughter was always helpful, faithful and lovable.

3, 4 and 5. The Three Giants were usually cruel but were afraid of the Drummer and so behaved
very well.

6. The Two Men were very unwise to quarrel and perhaps deserved to lose their saddle.

7. The Witch was cruel, deceitful and always bad, deserving her awful fate.

8. The Drummer's Parents were good people, for they knew nothing of the princess when they
tried to marry their son to another.

9. The Maiden was a commonplace person who did not really love the Drummer.

IV. The Unreal and Magical Things.

1. There are no glass mountains, but an iceberg resembles one.

2. There never were giants as big as fir trees.

3. There never was a saddle that could itself carry anyone anywhere.

4. There never was an old woman who could enchant a maiden.

5. There never was a magic ring that could grant wishes. Fish never jumped from water and sorted
themselves, wood never cut itself nor piled itself.

6. Never was a princess enchanted into a log and no log ever became a king's beautiful daughter.

7. It never made any difference in a young man's fortunes if he did kiss his parents on the
right instead of the left cheek.

8. No castle such as this was ever built in a day.

V. Things that Happen in Threes.

How absurd it is that in fairy stories things so often happen in sets of three! In this one
short story we find:

1. The Drummer saw three pieces of white linen.

2. The Drummer met three giants.

3. The mountain looked as high as if three mountains had been placed one upon another.

4. On the plain are three things, an old stone house, a large fish pond and a dark, dreary forest.

5. The Witch did not appear till the Drummer had knocked three times.

6. The Drummer wanted three things, admission, food and a night's lodging.

7. The Witch assigned three tasks.

8. There were three conditions to the first task, to scoop out the water, sort the fish, and
finish by night.

9. There were three parts to the second task, to cut the trees, to split them into logs and
to stack them.

10. The Witch gave the Drummer three tools with which to accomplish the second task, an ax,
a chopper and a wedge.

11. In the third task there were three steps, to place the wood in a heap, to set fire to it
and to burn it.

12. The Drummer supposed he had been gone three days but it was three years.

13. The wedding was to take place in three days.

14. The princess sang her song three times.

Tom, the Water Baby

(Volume II, page 215)

"This is all a fairy tale, and only fun and pretense; and therefore, you are not to believe
a word of it, even if it is true."

But what a wonderful tale it is; so interesting a story, such a mixture of fact and fancy,
so brimming full of fun and laughter, so touching in pathos, and so rife with good lessons.
Though "you are not to believe a word of it, even if it is true," there is so much truth in
it that you really cannot keep from believing a great deal of it.

A better comprehension of Tom, the Water Baby among parents will mean a greater popularity
for it among children. The tale is too long for a full interpretation, but we can offer an
analysis which will help to keep the story in mind, and some illustrations of different meritorious
features.

I. Analysis. At first Tom is a real boy, a little grimy, ignorant chimney sweep, next a water
baby or eft, in which character, under the tutelage of the fairies, he gains his education.
Briefly at the end he is a man, an engineer, but all that is delightfully vague, for he has
ceased to be the little Tom we like so thoroughly.

Chapters I and II.

  Tom, the Chimney Sweep,
    Works for Mr. Grimes;
    Summoned to sweep the chimney at Hartover Place;
  Overtakes the poor Irishwoman, who
    Walks with Tom;
    Asks about his prayers and makes him sad;
    Tells about the sea and makes him wish to be clean;
    Helps him pick flowers;
    Frightens Grimes for beating Tom,
    Warns them both to be clean;
    Promises to see them again;
    Disappears.
  Meets the keeper who warns Grimes against poaching;
  Walks up the avenue;
  Sees the deer, trees, bees, and makes friends with the keeper;
  Enters the house and sweeps chimneys;
  Comes out in a beautiful room and sees the little white lady;
  Sees himself for the first time and cries;
  Escapes from the nurse by window and tree;
  Is chased by everybody;
  Is lost in the woods;
  Scales a wall;
  Is followed by the Irishwoman, who throws the pursuers off the scent;
  Crosses the river, climbs a mountain;
  Descends Lewthwaite Crag;
  Drags himself to the cottage;
  Begs for water of the dame;
  Is given milk, and put in an outhouse;
  Is feverish and out of his mind;
  Thinks he must be clean;
  Drags himself to the stream, looks into the clear water, and undresses;
  Does not see the Irishwoman transform herself to the queen of the
   fairies;
  Tumbles himself into the stream;
  Falls asleep in the water;
  Is turned into a water-baby by the fairies;
  Is mourned as dead by the people who find his poor dirty body.

Chapters III and IV.

  Tom, the Water Baby,
    Watches the caddis-flies build their homes (page 262) and go into the
      chrysalis state (page 262);
    Sees the metamorphosis of the dragon-fly (pages 263-264);
    Meets and makes friends with the otters (pages 270-274);
    Travels towards the sea after the storm;
    Finds the salmon and witnesses the death of Grimes (pages 278-286);
    Passes the sleeping villages and reaches the sea;
    Greets the seal and looks for water babies;
    Plays with the lobsters (pages 292-294);
    Is caught by Professor Ptthmllnsprts and shown to Ellie, the little
      white lady, who flies away (pages 296-299). (Can you make out what
      Kingsley had in mind, by filling in the vowels of the Professor's
      name?)

Chapter V.

  Tom, the Water Baby,
    Has an adventure in the lobster pots (pages 300-303);
    Joins the water babies;
    Is met by Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid, who
      Examines Tom;
      Rewards the good children;
      Punishes those who know no better, viz.:
        Tom,
        The doctors,
        The foolish ladies,
        The careless nurserymaids,
        The cruel school teachers,
      Tells Tom about those who knew better.
    Sees Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby, who
      Mothers Tom;
      Tells him the story.

Chapter VI.

  Tom, the Water Baby,
    Steals the candy from the cabinet;
    Becomes prickly and ugly from sin;
    Confesses to Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid;
    Goes to school to rid himself of his ugliness;
    Is taught by the beautiful little girl;
    Gains his own smooth, clean skin;
    Recognizes the little white lady, Ellie;
    Learns how to join Ellie in the beautiful place;
    Loses her by being unkind;
    Hears the history of the Doasyoulikes;

Chapter VII.

  Tom, the Water Baby,
    Starts to go where he does not like, to find Mr. Grimes;
    Inquires of the King of the Herrings;
    Visits the last of the Gairfowl on the Allalonestone;
    Follows Mother Carey's chickens;
    Struggles with the water dog;
    Is carried by the mollymocks from Jan Mayen's land to Shiny Wall;
    Dives under the great white gate that never was opened yet;
    Reaches Peace-pool with the dog;
    Finds Mother Carey at work making new creatures from sea water;
    Is given passport to the Other-End-of-No-where;
    Goes backward in safety.

Chapter VIII.

  Tom, the Water Baby,
    Comes to the place called Stop;
    Is blown through the Sea;
    Finds himself in the claws of the bogy;
    Sees the metals made;
    Slides down the whirlpool;
    Swims to the shore of the Other-End-of-No-where;
    Finds Gotham;
    Comes to the isle of Tomtoddies;
    Hears of their great idol, Examination;
    Gives information to the nimblecomequick turnip;
    Stumbles over the respectable old stick;
    Faces Examiner-of-all-Examiners;
    Arrives at Oldwivesfabledom;
    Comes to the quiet place called Leaveheavenalone;
    Sees the prison;
    Offers the passport to the truncheon;
    Searches for chimney No. 345;
    Finds Grimes stuck in the chimney;
    Tries to light Grimes' pipe and to release him;
    Learns that the old dame teacher was the mother of Grimes;
    Sees Grimes' tears effect his release;
    Recognizes Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid as the Irishwoman;
    Hears Grimes sentenced to sweep out Aetna;
    Is blindfolded and taken up the back stairs;
    Recognizes St. Brandon's Isle and hears the song;
    Rejoices with Ellie and goes with her Sundays;
    Becomes a man of science and knows everything;
    And, it may be, marries Ellie.

II. Fact and Fancy. The story begins with a vivid description of the little sweep and his master,
and it is not till we have read several pages that we have reason to suspect that we are reading
a fairy story. In fact the "poor Irishwoman" might be a veritable Irishwoman till we have read
page 247. From this point on, the work of the fairies is seen occasionally to the end.

The facts of the natural history are mingled with the fancies of the author's brain in the
most natural manner. The description of the house-building of the caddis larvae (page 262)
is accurate enough for a scientist, who might, however, be shocked by the whimsical notion
of the rivalry told in the last sentence of the paragraph. The otters behave like otters, the
salmon like salmon, the lobster like the lobster he is. The dragon "splits" at the call of
nature, the ephemerae dance in the sunlight, and game-keepers kill poachers in real life as
in the story. The great auk is extinct and the right whale is still hunted, but Peace-pool
is as fancifully portrayed as is the creation of world-pap. It appears that as Kingsley proceeded
with his story he let his imagination play more freely and drew farther away from facts as
his fancies came plentifully. So the story furnishes food for thought by old and young, and
parts of it can be understood only by those who have had considerable study and experience.

III. Fun and Humor. A more entertaining story is hard to find. There are many amusing situations
and funny doings, besides which, Kingsley's style of writing abounds in a rich humor that is
not always evident to the hasty and careless reader. Not a little of the humor is ironical
and sometimes we are inclined to think that the writer may be having a little quiet fun at
the expense of his readers.

Children are inclined to read Tom, the Water Baby as they do many another tale, for the story
only. They want to know what happens to Tom, whether or no Grimes is punished, what becomes
of Ellie, and how it "all comes out." But when attention is called to the fun in the tale children
will read it more than once, for they like to laugh even better than their elders, and curiosity
prompts them to watch to "see the joke."

The humorous twist to things begins in the second sentence of the story and it does not disappear
permanently till the very last sentence of the Moral. See how it shows in these few extracts:
"His master was so delighted at his new customer that he knocked Tom down out of hand" (page
219). Humor and pathos are both strengthened by the violent contrast.

On page 232 begins the long humorous paragraph descriptive of the chase after Tom. (page 235).
To be sure, there must be water babies. Am I in earnest? Oh dear no!"

Read the account of the policemen, beginning on page 306, for an example of a broader humor.

Do not think of "skipping" the Moral. No more attractive "moral" was ever written for fable
or fairy tale!

IV. Pathos. Tom, the Chimney Sweep is always pathetic. It is only as Tom the Water Baby that
he does not make us sad.

Poor little, dirty, ignorant Tom!

To him who reads understandingly, there is pathos on nearly every page of the first two chapters.
Sometimes it is seen in hints and shown by indirection but in other instances it is direct,
positive, powerful.

In his terrible race for life he "thought he heard church bells ringing a long way off" and
thought "where there is a church there will be houses and people," and perhaps someone will
give him a "bit and a sup." So he follows the ringing in his ears till he comes to the top
of the great crag and sees "a mile off and a thousand feet down" the old dame in her garden.
We lose our own breath in following him down that awful descent, find ourselves panting, and
at last, suddenly, "b-e-a-t, beat!" After the old dame has given him the old rug and bidden
him sleep off his weariness, comes the fever with the ringing of the church bells and the persistent,
agonizing thought, "I must be clean, I must be clean."

Then when it is too late, just to add to the pathos of the sad little tale, comes the Squire,
conscious of the terrible mistake and ready to put Tom in the way of cleanliness, knowledge
and happiness; Tom, of whom there remained only the husk and shell which made the Squire think
the poor sweep was drowned.

To close the chapter and the sad part of the story, the dame sings the old, old song which
the children could not understand but which they liked nevertheless, "for it was very sweet
and very sad and that was enough for them." We know what it means.

V. Beauty. Tom, the Water Baby has in it much more of real beauty both in sentiment and expression
than most prose and more than many a charming poem. There is little of ugliness in the story,
and what there is, is so softened in the way in which it is presented that the impression is
neither repulsive nor lasting. Kingsley's work is highly artistic and this story is real literature.

Some of his descriptions are like beautiful pictures in color. Was there ever more attractive
description of the mist patches that lie across the earth waiting for the morning sun to dissipate
them?

The poor Irishwoman followed Tom in this manner: "She went along quite smoothly and gracefully,
while her feet twinkled past each other so fast that you could not see which was foremost."

VI. Good Lessons. Through all the fun, the burlesque, the amusing exaggerations and the bombastic
humor runs a scheme of advice and instruction. Sometimes it takes the form of a direct caution
to the reader, again it may be shown by inference, and lastly the events speak for themselves
and give their own lesson. The author meant to teach adults as well as children. The graphic
history of the Doasyoulikes is rather a clear-cut study in degeneracy for older people, as
well as a lively warning for youngsters. But what is the author's main theme? Is his real text
in the advice the poor Irishwoman gives to Grimes and Tom? "Those that wish to be clean, clean
they will be; and those that wish to be foul, foul they will be. Remember." (page 225). Perhaps
a second text or at least a corollary to this is expressed in the name of the cuddly lady,
Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby. This may mean the same as the advice she gives on page 328: "Those
who go there must go first where they do not like, and do what they do not like, and help somebody
they do not like." Besides these leading ideas there are several others that run through the
story. Meanness and wickedness are made unattractive and bring punishment. The punishment grows
logically out of the offense and has a direct relation to the misdeed. Persons are not rewarded
for their good deeds but they are happy in being good. It is not a credit to do right, but
wrongdoing is discreditable. Little meannesses stand in the way of happiness though they may
not bring any definite punishments. Evil is ugliness, goodness is beauty. Friendship is made
attractive and filial love is strongly inculcated. The strong appeal made to the sympathy of
the reader by the very real and very human Tom, the chimney sweep, is a strong influence for
good, and progress toward character in the clever little water baby is a continuous refining
influence on the reader.

The bits of advice, the little asides, are slipped into the text so naturally that they are
never repulsive or calculated to raise antagonism in the minds of those who naturally dislike
advice. Taken from the text they seem more formal and less helpful, but here are a few of them
as illustrations:

"Let well alone, lad, and ill too at times."

"Ah, first thoughts are best, and a body's heart'll guide them right, if they will but hearken
to it."

"It was not quite well bred, no doubt; but you know, Tom had not finished his education yet."

"What has been once can never come over again."

"No more to be bought for money than a good conscience or the Victoria cross."

"You see, experience is of very little good unless a man, or a lobster, has wit enough to make
use of it."

"It is not good for little boys to be told everything, and never to be forced to use their
own wits."

"I am quite sure that she knows best. Perhaps she wishes people to learn to keep their fingers
out of the fire by having them burned."

"I always forgive people the minute they tell me the truth of their own accord."

VII. Life-like Characters. The great storyteller makes his characters seem like human beings.
The reader can almost see them; at any rate, he feels that he knows them and that they are
real, not merely life-like. It is hard to understand how the author accomplishes the wonderful
feat (for it is the most wonderful thing about story writing), and it is much more difficult
to tell how it is done. One word here, a clear descriptive phrase there, and Tom, or the Squire,
or the old schoolmistress, or Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid with her awkward name, has become so much
of a personality that you cannot forget if you would. Certainly one of the fine things about
Tom, the Water Baby is the living reality of its characters, which appeals universally to young
and old, even in the first reading of the story.

VIII. The Writer's Art. It will add something to a child's interest in the story if his attention
is called to the skilful way in which Kingsley handles his plot. It is high art to throw into
the early part of the story the conversation between the keeper and Grimes. It shows that Grimes
is a poacher and known to be one. The keeper is inclined to wink at the offense, but still
he feels that a warning is necessary. Nothing more is said about poaching till much later,
where Tom, the Water Baby, sees Grimes meet a poacher's death.

Again, it is early evident that Grimes has done other wicked things and that the poor Irishwoman
knows of one at least. She even mentions Vendale, but the reader attaches no importance to
it. Tom flees to Vendale and is pitied and kindly treated by the old Schoolmistress, but it
is not until Tom finds Grimes suffering his punishment in the chimney flues that the reader
learns what the poor Irishwoman knew about Grimes, and that the schoolmistress was Grimes's
poor ill-treated mother.

Once more, Kingsley's art is seen in the selection of incidents and the arrangement of influences
which bring to Tom the conviction of his dirtiness and create in him the overpowering desire
to be clean.

But this interpretation of Tom, the Water Baby has already reached the limits of space and
we must forego the pleasure of pointing out other examples of artistic treatment. Probably
it is better to leave the story to plead its own cause.

The Passing of Arthur

(Volume V, page 237)

While the outline differs in form from those we have been using, it is a helpful variation,
and shows that while a narrative poem must be studied first in the same manner as a story,
there are still other points that need careful examination.

Tennyson's The Passing of Arthur is one of the noble things in literature, solemn, impressive,
inspiring. In order to appreciate a careful study of it, one should have read at least those
selections which appear in the fifth volume, beginning with page 113 and extending to page
236. With this preliminary setting there should be no difficulty in feeling a sufficient interest
in King Arthur to be appreciative of Tennyson's work from the very beginning.

a. Characters. Three characters appear in this poem, viz: King Arthur; Sir Bedivere, the knight
first made and last surviving of all those who sat about King Arthur's table; Modred, Arthur's
traitorous nephew. Besides these three human characters, the ghost of Gawain, the three queens
who came in the barge, and even Excalibur itself are of so much interest that they may be considered
as almost human.

King Arthur is shown in his old age, when wife and friend are traitor to his peace, and all
his realm has sunk back into disorder and is rapidly approaching extinction.

Bedivere, oldest of the knights, now in the white winter of his age, when he himself was really
no more than a voice, is supposed to tell the story to those with whom he dwelt, new faces,
other minds.

Modred is seen retreating league by league before King Arthur. At Lyonnesse, after a fierce
battle in which confusion reigned and friends and foes were shadows in the mist, he meets his
king. The false knight strikes Arthur hard upon the helmet, and gives the wound that finally
proves fatal; while the king, with the last stroke of Excalibur, slays his traitorous nephew.

The dead Gawain appears, a ghost blown along a wandering wind, and on the eve of the battle
warns King Arthur of approaching death, but intimates that somewhere is an isle of rest for him.

b. The Incidents.
   1. Arthur mourns for his departed kingdom.

   2. Gawain warns Arthur of his approaching death; Arthur is depressed
      by the warning.

   3. Bedivere warns Arthur that he must rise and conquer Modred;
      Arthur hesitates to make war against his people.

   4. He moves his host to Lyonnesse: the last weird battle is fought.

   5. Arthur thinks himself king only among the dead.

   6. Bedivere professes affection, and calls Arthur's attention to the
      traitor, Modred.

   7. The king promises one last act of kinghood.

   8. Modred wounds the king; the king kills Modred.

   9. Bedivere carries the wounded Arthur to the ruined chapel.

  10. The dying Arthur directs Bedivere to throw Excalibur into the
      mere; Bedivere twice deceives Arthur and is twice reproved.

  11. Bedivere throws Excalibur into the mere, and tells King Arthur
      what happened.

  12. Bedivere bears Arthur to the margin of the mere.

  13. The three black-hooded queens with crowns of gold come in the
      dusky barge.

  14. Arthur is placed in the barge and speaks his last words to
      Bedivere; the barge moves swan-like from the brink.

  15. Bedivere watches the speck that bears the king move down the long
      water opening on the deep.

c. Scenes.
   1. Arthur in his tent among the slumbering host.

   2. The march to the sunset bound of Lyonnesse, and the moving
      pageant to the battlefield.

   3. The dark strait of barren land with the ocean on one side and on
      the other the great water; the ruined chapel with its broken
      chancel and broken cross, and, near at hand, the place of tombs
      with its bones of ancient mighty men; athwart all shines the
      moon, and over all the chill wind with flakes of foam sings
      shrilly. Zigzag paths lead around jutting points of rock down to
      the shining levels of the lake, where the ripple washes softly in
      the reeds, the wild water laps the crags, and many-knotted
      water-flags whistle stiff and dry. Frozen hills, barren chasms
      with icy caves, the bare black cliff and slippery crag wall, and
      the level lake gleaming in the glories of the winter moon.

d. Descriptive Passages. Besides those passages which relate especially to the scenes, there
are other beautiful and powerful bits of description that will well repay examination. For
instance:

   1. Of King Arthur's dream the poet says,

      "And fainter onward, like wild birds that change
       Their season in the night and wail their way
       From cloud to cloud, down the long wind the dream
       Shrill'd."

      Note the figure of speech (simile), beginning with the word
      like.

   2. The description of the last, dim, weird battle in the west,
      beginning at the bottom of page 240 with the line "A death-white
      mist slept over land and sea," is one of the most stirring things
      in the poem, and deserves particularly close reading. The
      pictures are crowded, the figures vivid, the phrases full of
      force.

   3. Tennyson has used his highest art in the composition, and makes
      the sound of his lines imitate in no feeble way the noise of
      battle. For instance:

      "Shocks, and the splintering spear, the hard mail hewn,
       Shield-breakings, and the clash of brands, the crash
       Of battle-axes on shatter'd helms, and shrieks
       After the Christ, of those who falling down
       Look'd up for heaven, and only saw the mist."

   4.

   5. The best estimate of King Arthur's
character is made from his own words and those of Bedivere, not from
Tennyson's description.

   1. He has been a devout man. He has fought for Christ and searched
      for Christ and

           "found Him in the shining of the stars,
       Mark'd Him in the flowering of His fields."

   2. He is now discouraged. He has not found Him in His ways with men,
      and now it seems to him,

      "As if some lesser god had made the world,
       But had not force to shape it as he would."

      "My God, thou hast forgotten me in my death."

   3. Yet he is hopeful, and he feels that perchance the world is
      wholly fair, and that his doubts come because he has not the
      power to see it as it is, and may not see it to the close.

   4. He desires to be just, and feels that in the coming battle in the
      west he may not have the right on his side:

                                  "Ill doom is mine
      To war against my people and my knights.
      The king who fights his people fights himself."

   5. Yet courage and confidence are not all gone:

      "Yet let us hence, and find or feel a way
       Thro' this blind haze."

   6. After the battle, he grows more confused:

                          "I know not what I am,
      Nor whence I am, nor whether I be King.
      Behold, I seem but King among the dead."

   7. He must be noble, kingly, to have inspired such devotion as
      Bedivere shows. Hear what the latter says:

                                          "My King,
      King everywhere! and so the dead have kings,
      There also will I worship thee as King."

   8. He is a warrior to the last. Listen to his reply to Bedivere:

      "King am I, whatsoever be their cry;
       And one last act of kinghood shalt thou see
       Yet, ere I pass."

   9. He is resigned: "Let what will be, be."

  10. He is faithful to the trust imposed upon him when he acquired
      Excalibur. Three times he sends Bedivere to cast the sword into
      the mere.

  11. He loves truth and reveres it:

      "This is a shameful thing for men to lie."

  12. Though he appears to fear death, rather is his fear that he shall
      die before he reaches the water where he expects something.

  13. At the last his philosophy bears him up, though still he calls
      for devotion from his faithful knight. The whole speech is
      matchless. Note these fine passages:

      "The old order changeth, yielding place to new,
       And God fulfils himself in many ways."

                        "And that which I have done
       May He within himself make pure!"

                      "The whole round earth is everyway
       Bound by gold chains about the feet of God."

  14. All the elements of poetic beauty join to make The Passing
of Arthur a masterpiece. Sublime sentiment thrills through the stanzas.
A stately meter gives a solemn, rhythmic swing to the noble lines.
Sonorous words add to the grandeur. Apt phrases and beautiful figures of
speech seize the imagination and enchain the fancy. Rare and choice
diction gives artistic finish to every sentence.

Most beautiful are such phrases as the following:

    "The phantom circle of a moaning sea."

    "Some whisper of the seething sea."

    "Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful."

                               "Let thy voice
     Rise like a fountain for me night and day."

      "And looking wistfully with wide blue eyes
     As in a picture."

    "Clothed with his breath."

    "A cry that shiver'd to the tingling stars."

Note how the following phrases give color to the poem:

       "that day when the great light of heaven
     Burn'd at his lowest in the rolling year."

    "Among the mountains by the winter sea."

                             "The winter moon,
     Brightening the skirts of a long cloud."

Observe the pictorial power of these quotations:

    "Make broad thy shoulders to receive my weight."

    "Straining his eyes beneath an arch of hand."

    "One black dot against the verge of dawn."

    "From the great deep to the great deep he goes."

    "Authority forgets a dying king."

FOOTNOTES:

[189-1] Haec fabula docet means This fable teaches. It is with these words that the "Morals"
of the old Latin fables begin.

CHAPTER IX

CLOSE READING OR STUDY

It is largely because story reading may so easily become careless reading, that prejudice against
fiction is found in many minds. In the preceding pages there have been suggested many ways
by which story reading may be made profitable, and yet all these methods may be used without
calling for that close, intensive reading which we usually call study. You may lead a child
to read Rab and His Friends for all the purposes we have suggested, and yet he may have passed
over without understanding them many a word, phrase or even sentence. It is possible that there
are whole paragraphs that convey little meaning to him. This is certainly not an unmixed evil,
for it is well that a child should not exhaust the possibilities of such a masterpiece when
he first reads it. In fact, it is a good thing for children frequently to read great literature
even when much of it is quite beyond their comprehension. It will pique their curiosity, and
some time they will return with wiser minds and broader experience to interpret for themselves
the things that once were obscure. It is no sin for a child sometimes to pass over a word he
cannot pronounce or does not understand. There could be few more certain ways of destroying
his taste for reading than to require him to stop and find the meaning of every new word he
meets. Sometimes the meaning will become evident a little later from the context, and in other
instances he will understand well enough without the troublesome word.

What has been said does not signify that the habit of skipping new words or of avoiding difficult
paragraphs is a good one. It does mean, however, that sometimes the practice should be tolerated,
and that close reading should be required at the proper time and in the proper way. In the
arithmetic or geography lesson the young must always read very closely, and in their perusal
of the classics there are many fine opportunities for exercises of the same character, that
should not be neglected. Descriptive passages, arguments, and essays of all kinds require to
be read with exceeding care, and often there are passages even in light fiction that repay
this kind of study.

Words and phrases are the subjects of consideration in close reading, and the mastery of thought
is the object to be attained. The study of words may be made very interesting, and gathering
the meaning of phrases may become a fascinating pastime.

An illustration may prove the case.

A cursory reading will suggest to any young person that the paragraph says Ailie is going to
die, and that she does not fear death; but how much more it means to him who can understand
it all. The end was drawing on--Ailie was going to her death. The golden bowl was breaking;
the silver cord was fast being loosed. Turn to your Bible (Ecclesiastes xii, 3-7), and read
what is said. That "animula blandula, vagula, hospes comesque" was about to flee. That sweet
but fleeting life, friend, companion and sojourner with her, was about to leave. She was walking
alone through the valley of the shadow. Into which one day we must all enter. May we be equally
fearless of evil! She was not alone. Her God was with her every moment, and in her hours of
consciousness she knew Him to be present. We knew whose rod and staff were comforting her.
"Thy rod and Thy staff they comfort me."

Like the Psalmist of old she leaned upon the arm of her God and as she thus approached the
dark valley, the light of her faith shone into our souls.

The Latin quotation and the allusions to the Bible are skilfully used to give solemnity to
the idea of death, to show how inevitable it is, and how for long ages it has been met with
the same serene faith and deep religious feeling that made Ailie beautiful in the face of death.
Yes, there is more in the paragraph than the statement that Ailie was going to die and that
she was not afraid.

The questions designed to bring out the meaning of the above paragraph, to which the answers
are usually quite obvious, might be as follows:

Is "our Assembly" the Albany convention mentioned in the note at the head of the selection,
or is it the Assembly of Franklin's own colony? What is the meaning of apprehending? Do you
like it better than thinking? What do you suppose was the nature of the "information" the Assembly
had received? Do you think that someone had told them that Braddock was prejudiced, or did
they infer it from actions of Braddock which had been described to them? Who was averse to
it? What is the meaning of "wait upon him"? Do we use that phrase frequently now? What might
we say now? What do you understand by "not as from them"? Can you put into that phrase one
word that will make its meaning clear? Was Franklin then postmaster-general of his colony?
Was he ever postmaster-general of the United States? What is the meaning of guise? What is
meant by "under the guise"? Does celerity mean more than quickness? Is there any shade of difference
in the meanings of the two words? Do you think Franklin used the best word he could find when
he wrote celerity? What are "despatches"? What kind of despatches would pass between Braddock
and the governors of the different provinces? How many different provinces were there for Braddock
to help defend? What were they? Who proposed to pay the expense? Does propose in this case
have a different or larger meaning than that in which you are in the habit of seeing it used?
Of what did they propose to pay the expense?

If a young person can answer all the questions in the preceding paragraph, he undoubtedly understands
the passage upon which they are based. The questioner must watch the answers and be ready to
detect mistakes. Often the answer shows why the person fails to understand, and a different
question will then bring out the correct reply. The questions always should be so worded that
they do not anticipate the answer, yet so the person questioned will thoroughly understand
what is expected. A little help now and then is appreciated by anyone, certainly by those who
are being led to think.

Carried to excess, close reading is wearisome; and parents, remembering this, should be discriminating
in their selections for study and not too exacting in their requirements. Everything may be
lost by dwelling too long upon even the most delightful selections. Left to himself, almost
every child will be fond of The Village Blacksmith, but it may be read and "studied" till the
very thought of it is obnoxious to the young reader.

Industry and Sloth

(Volume I, page 300)

To bring out the thought in this selection, study it as follows:

What is the meaning of jocosely? (Flippantly.) What is a court? (A place where disputes between
persons are settled by a judge, or by a judge and jury.) What is a jury? (A company of men,
usually six or twelve, who hear the evidence and decide on the facts.) What are cases? (The
dispute or disagreement is called a case, when it is brought to court to be decided or settled.)
What are damsels? (Young girls.) What were the names of the young damsels the young man said
he saw? Why do the words "Industry" and "Sloth" begin with capital letters? (Because they are
the names of girls.) Were they real girls? What does industry mean? (Work.) What does sloth
mean? (Laziness.) Were these real girls? Then what does this mean? (The young man thinks of
fondness for work and fondness for idleness as though they were girls.) When we write of qualities,
or feelings, as though they were human beings, the words become proper nouns and we begin them
with capital letters. Do you know what we call this process of lifting something that is lower
to the level of human beings? No? We call it personification. Here industry and sloth are personified
and made the equals of human beings. What does entreats mean? What does persuades mean? (That
means teases or begs.) Which is the stronger word, entreats or persuades? (Entreats means begs
strongly; persuades means begs and makes me believe what is said. I think the latter is really
the stronger word.) What does alternately mean? (First one and then the other.) What does impartial
mean? (Fair; without any favoritism.) What does detained mean? (Kept.) What does pleadings
mean? (Where a case is tried in court the lawyers on each side try to persuade the court or
jury to decide in favor of the man [client] who has hired them. The written papers and the
speeches the lawyers make are called pleadings.)

Do you think the young man was really serious? Do you think he really tried to decide anything
as he lay in bed, or was he just trying to make up an excuse for his laziness? Was there any
reason why the young man should lie in bed? Did he think there was? Could you find any better
reason than he gave? Do you think he was a bright young man? If you had listened to him would
you have taken his excuse? Why? Was it really truthful? Did you ever lie in bed and think,
"Well, I must get up; no, I'll lie a little longer. But I must get up. What's the use? But
I ought to get up. Yes, I really ought to get up," etc., etc., and finally discover that you
had wasted a great deal of time without really intending it? Were Industry and Sloth pleading
with you then? Do you think that some people waste much time trying to decide useless questions?
Does it sometimes happen that men and women waste so much time in this way that they never
accomplish a great deal of anything?

Why the Sea Is Salt

(Volume II, page 484)

In this pleasing fairy story Mary Howitt has told the tale of the curious explanation offered
by the peasants of Denmark and Norway for the saltness of the sea. It naturally raises in a
child's mind the question, why is the sea salt? The question can be answered in this manner:

The rain falls down in little drops, some of which soak into the ground, while others make
rivulets that run into brooks that in time join the rivers that flow into the sea. Much of
the water that soaks into the ground finds its way again to the surface in springs that feed
the brooks and keep them alive when no rain is falling. Of course the sun when it shines turns
some of the water into vapor that rises again to the sky. Sometimes on a cool morning you can
see the mist or vapor too heavy to rise out of sight and too light to fall as rain. Wherever
there is water, some of it is rising into the air, especially when the sun shines and it is
warm and the wind blows. The sea is so big that great quantities of vapor are rising from it
all the time and being blown over the land to be cooled, to gather into rain and to fall again
where it will refresh the earth and make the plants grow.

So you see water is traveling through the air all the time, up from the earth, the streams
and the seas, through the air, back to the earth and through it into the sea again in a great
series of everlasting circuits. We are hardly ever conscious of the moisture except when it
falls as rain or snow and spoils our plans.

When the water is passing through the land it dissolves and gathers up various substances,
especially salt, which "melts" in water very easily. This salt and the other bitter and brackish
substances are carried little by little, sometimes pausing, but always on and on till they
reach the sea, beyond which they cannot go, for the sea is in the lowest parts of the earth.
Now come the sun, the heat and the winds and evaporate the water; that is, draw up the vapor
to start on its new circuit. But, notice this, the vapor that rises is pure water. The salt
and other substances are left in the sea. At first it was only a little that was left, then
more, always a little more till the water couldn't hold it all and it sank to the bottom and
made deposits of salt and other things. But the streams always bring more sediment and the
heat and the winds carry off pure water and leave the rest salty and bitter. And that is the
real reason why the sea is salt.

Faithless Sally Brown

(Volume III, page 92)

It is a thankless task to try to explain a joke, but some of the fun in these jolly old rhymes
depends upon facts that are not generally known or that may have been forgotten. A few words
here may help to answer questions.

Stanza II. "Fetched a walk." This is an application of a nautical term, as in "to fetch headway."

"Press Gang." To secure recruits for her navy, England at one time permitted her men to be
seized and forcibly carried on board ship, where they were compelled to perform sailors' duties
on long cruises. The bands of cruel men who captured the recruits were known as "press gangs."

Stanza III. A boatswain is one of the minor officers of a ship. He usually has charge of one
of the small boats, such as would carry off a recruit to the big ship.

Stanza VIII. John Benbow was a famous English Admiral who died in 1702 from wounds received
in a four days' fight with the French fleet in the West Indies. His captains refused to obey
orders and Benbow was unable to win the battle. When his right leg was shot off he refused
to go below but continued to direct the conflict from the deck. "I had rather have lost both
legs," he said, "than have seen this dishonor brought on the English nation. But, hark ye--if
another shot should take me off, behave like men and fight it out." Two of his captains were
tried, convicted and shot. The Admiral himself died after three or four months of suffering.

Stanza IX. A tender is a ship that carries supplies or conveys messages from one to another
of the ships in a squadron.

Stanza XI. "The Virgin and the Scales." The Virgin (Virgo) and the Scales (Libra) are two constellations
known to the ancients. A person born while these constellations were to be seen in the sky
(from near the end of August to near the end of October) was said to be born under them and
was believed to have certain characteristics. In the case of Sally Brown the stars were cruel.
She could not follow her beau, Ben, but must walk about raising her voice in wailing.

Stanza XV. "To pipe his eye" is a slang phrase meaning to look sharply.

Stanza XVI. "All's Well," the usual cry of a watchman, not the name of a song.

"Pigtail" was a kind of chewing tobacco much used by sailors. It was twisted in hard rolls.

The Definition of a Gentleman

(Volume IV, page 170)

There is nothing in Journeys Through Bookland that will better repay thought, especially for
the boys, than this extract from the writings of the great Cardinal Newman. It affords, however,
a host of little tests of character that everyone can apply to himself; for "gentleman," here,
is used in its generic sense and applies with equal force to both sexes.

It is not to be read hastily and then laid aside, for no one can get its full meaning from
a single perusal. Every word is a chapter, every sentence a volume. Read properly, each sentence
must carry with it a personal application, which can be seen as the reader asks, "Is this what
I am?"

Am I then, one who never gives pain?

Am I mainly occupied in removing the obstacles that hinder the action of my friends and acquaintances?
Am I the easy chair that gives them bodily comfort, the good fire that dispels the cold and
makes them comfortable and free to act?

Do I try always to make everyone at ease and at home?

Am I

--tender toward the bashful?

--gentle toward those who are cold and reserved?

--merciful to those whose actions draw ridicule upon themselves?

In conversation, do I recollect those to whom I am speaking, avoid irritating them, keep myself
in the background, talk little myself and listen attentively to them?

If I can put to myself each of the tests Cardinal Newman offers in these few pages and can
feel myself ring true under each, then may I hope to call myself a gentleman.

Adventures in Lilliput

(Volume V, page 8)

In Gulliver's Travels Swift has given us a wonderful work in constructive imagination. As has
been said elsewhere, the imagination works with the ideas which are present in the mind. It
creates nothing, but it may enlarge, diminish or recombine ideas with an infinity of form.
In Adventures in Lilliput Swift has used largely the reducing power of his imagination. If
he has been accurate, he has reduced everything in the same proportion. An interesting study
of this phase of the story may be made by means of questions, which may be answered by reading
the text, or by reasoning from the facts given.

In the following exercise, questions and comments are combined in such a way as to assist a
boy or girl to verify or disprove the accuracy of Swift's work. A similar exercise, to illustrate
the opposite extreme, may be based upon Adventures in Brobdingnag (page 54). It is hoped, too,
that the questions may suggest a method for interpreting other selections.

When Gulliver awoke and found himself bound (page 10), he felt something alive moving on his
body. Bending his eyes downward as much as he could he saw it was a human creature not six
inches high. We are at liberty to suppose that Gulliver was a man of ordinary height, that
is to say, not six feet high. If the Lilliputian was "not six inches high," what was the ratio
of height between Gulliver and his miniature captors? If, then, Gulliver is twelve times the
size of one of his captors, we have a standard of comparison.

How long a bow would a man use? How long would be the arrow that fitted that bow? How long
would the bows and arrows of the Lilliputians be? Would an arrow that size, fired with the
force a Lilliputian could give, "prick like a needle," and if there were many of them would
they set a man "a-groaning with grief and pain"?

If a man were lying flat on his back could he turn his eyes down so as to see a pencil, not
six inches high, placed upright on his breast? When a man's face was turned two inches to the
left, how much of the ground would be concealed from his sight by his shoulder?

How far can a man shoot an arrow? How far could a Lilliputian shoot an arrow? Would an arrow
the size of a Lilliputian's falling from the height to which he could shoot it pierce the skin
of a man?

How long were the spears of the Lilliputians? Is it reasonable to suppose that a leather jerkin
would be proof against their spears? How tall was the page that held up the train of the "principal
person." (page 12)?

How many times the height of a Lilliputian was the body of Gulliver as he lay on the ground?
How many rounds would there be in one of the ladders on which they climbed? "Above one hundred
inhabitants" mounted the ladders and walked toward Gulliver's mouth. They carried baskets filled
with meat. Would the quantity of meat be too large for Gulliver to eat? Would the shoulders,
legs and loins of a sheep one-twelfth the height of an ordinary one be "smaller than the wings
of a lark"? Would loaves of bread the "bigness of musket balls" be one-twelfth the size of
ordinary loaves?

In the case of two vessels of the same proportions, but of different heights, do the capacities
vary according to the heights, or according to the cubes of the heights? If one of our hogsheads
contain from one hundred to one hundred and forty gallons, how much should a Lilliputian hogshead
contain to be in proportion?

Is it a fact that being one-twelfth the height of a man a Lilliputian should have one-twelfth
of a man's strength? If a man is reduced to one-twelfth of his height what should his weight be?

When they wished to move Gulliver, five hundred carpenters and engineers were set to work to
prepare a frame of wood, which was raised three inches from the ground, was about seven feet
long, four feet wide, and moved upon twenty-two wheels. What was the diameter of the wheels
that would raise the body three inches from the ground? Would it be an easy matter to move
wheels of that size when they bear a weight such as Gulliver's must have been?

Knowing what we know of the Lilliputians could nine hundred of them using pulleys with cords
"the bigness of pack-thread" lift Gulliver upon the engine in less than three hours?

Does Swift keep the correct proportions when he says that Gulliver's bullets are about the
size of the heads of the Lilliputians? Would "an hundred and fifty of their beds sewn together
make up the breadth and length" of a bed large enough for Gulliver?

How large would a Lilliputian horse be? Does it seem wonderful that Gulliver's hat could be
brought from the seashore with "only five horses"?

It is unnecessary to carry the questioning any further. Anyone who reads the stories will find
an infinity of questions suggesting themselves to him, and he will doubtless get no little
pleasure and profit from attempting to answer them. As will be seen, some of the questions
are not simple. If Swift has been wise he has not reduced everything arbitrarily on a horizontal
scale to one-twelfth of its apparent size, capacity, weight, or strength, but has properly
apportioned all. The reader may find that he will be called upon for some nice discrimination,
before he can judge correctly as to the accuracy with which Swift has used his scale of reduction.

The Heart of Bruce

(Volume V, page 316)

1. What is meant by "frost lay hoar"? "Hoar" means "white" or "gray." (It was early in the
morning before the sun had melted the frost.)

2. What kind of armour did they wear? What kind of "ships" rode in the bay? (Remember this
happened about six hundred years ago.)

3. What caused the foam that was swept away? Why did they gaze back in silence?

4. Why does the poet call them purple hues, and why does he say they decayed? Did you ever
notice the purple on distant hills? What causes it?)

5. What is the "battle-van"? (The front rank.)

6. What is a "freit"? (A superstitious notion or an omen as to right or wrong. Lord Douglas
felt a superstitious dread, a chill of foreboding.)

7. What did Robert say on his dying day?

8. What did Robert want his followers to do with his heart?

9. Who dreamed this dream? What was a Pilgrim? (A pilgrim is a wanderer. We think first of
the Puritan fathers when we speak of Pilgrims, but the Pilgrim who appeared to Lord Douglas
was a palmer who showed by his garb and his olive branch that he had been to the Holy Land.)
See picture, page 319.

10. What kind of a Cross did Saint Andrew bear? Who was Saint Andrew? (Saint Andrew was one
of the twelve apostles, and is believed to have suffered martyrdom on a cross shaped something
like the letter X, that is, one made of two beams of equal length crossing in the middle at
an angle.)

11. What is a "belted brand"? (A sword fastened to a belt.)

12. What was "Galilee"? What was the "Holy Mount" and why was it so called?

13. What is "Scotland's heart"? (The heart of Robert Bruce, so called because of the reverence
in which he is held by the Scotch.) Where can you read about the great angel that calls the
dead to rise?

14. What is meant by "mark my rede"? (Listen to my advice or counsel.)

15. What was the prediction the Pilgrim seemed to make to Lord Douglas? What did Lord Douglas
ask of Sir Simon of the Lee?

16. Why should Scotland's earth be called "kindly"?

17. What does "betide" mean? Tell in your own words what Sir Simon replied. ("Whatever happens
to me, I'll do as you command.")

18. What does Sir Simon promise?

19. What does "aye" mean? (In this place it means "for a long time.") What is meant by on our
"lee"? (The wind blew toward Spain, and across the course of the ship; hence the coast appeared
on the lee side of the vessel.) Why should the poet say the coast rose "grimly"?

20. What are "atabals"? (Tabors or kettledrums used by the Moors.)

21. Who asks the question about the Eastern music and the crowd of armed men?

22. What was Castile? (A province of Spain.) Who answers the question asked in the twenty-first
stanza?

23. What is meant by the "Cross in jeopardie"? (The Spaniards were a Christian nation fighting
under the symbol of the Cross. The Moors were the infidels or Moslems whose success would destroy
the Christian religion in Spain. Their symbol was the crescent.)

24. What does "Have down" mean? (It means "Let us land.")

25. Who speaks in the twenty-fifth stanza?

26. Explain what is said in the twenty-sixth stanza. (Do you come because you have promised
to fight the pagans or do you come to fight for money? Are you French or Burgundians?)

27. What is a "belted peer"?

28. What is the meaning of "died upon the tree"?

29. What is a "weltering wave"? (To "welter" is to tumble over. The "weltering wave" is the sea.)

30. Does the word "pilgrim" mean the same here as in the ninth stanza?

31. What King is this who speaks in the thirty-first stanza?

32. What do the words "full well" express?

33. Is the word "amain" in use nowadays? What does it mean?

34. What is a high glance?

35. What does this speech by Douglas show us of his character?

36. What were "cross-bolts"? (Short, blunt arrows fired from the cross-bows.)

37. What is a Saracen? (Here the word means merely a Mohammedan hostile to the Christians.)
What does "rode like corn" mean? (We rode through their ranks as we would ride through corn.)

38. What is the meaning of "fain"? (Willing.)

39. What does "fell" mean? (Deadly.)

40. What is meant by "Make in"? (Here it means, "Gather together.")

41. What was the "rain"? What was the "swarm"?

42. What had happened to Saint Claire?

43. What was James's purpose in holding aloft the heart of Bruce?

44. Why did he throw the sacred relic before him? What does "wert wont of yore" mean? ("As
you used to do.")

45. What is the meaning of "stour"? (Battle or combat.) Why are the spears said to come in
"shivering"?

46. Who speaks in the forty-sixth stanza?

47. Who replies in the forty-seventh stanza? What does "dree" mean? (Suffer, endure.)

48. What does "stark" mean?

49. What is the meaning of "lyart"? (Gray. The word was usually applied to a horse.)

50. What is this "heaviest cloud" that is bound for the banks of Bothwell?

51. What is this "sorest stroke" that has fallen upon Scotland?

52. What was to be carried back to the ship and laid in hallowed ground in Scotland?

53. Who is the "Lord King" referred to in the fifty-third stanza?

54. Does the line "so stately as he lay" seem a natural way of expressing the fact?

55. What does the speech of the Spanish King show of his character?

56. Why does the poet say that we steered the ship "heavily"?

57. Does "no welcome greeted our return" mean that none of the Scotch met the returning soldiers?

58. What were "Douglas Kirk" and "fair Melrose"? (The church of the Douglas clan and the stately
abbey of Melrose. The latter may still be seen in beautiful ruins in southern Scotland.)

Annie Laurie

(Volume VI, page 119)

The Scotch dialect in this old favorite is one of its charms, but some readers may require
explanation of a few of the terms.

"Braes" are hillsides or slopes. "Bonnie" is the Scotch way of spelling "bonny," which, here,
means "beautiful."

"Fa's" is the Scotch spelling of "falls."

"Gie'd" is Scotch for "gave."

The last line of the first stanza rendered into English would read, "I'd lay me down and die."

"Snaw" is "snow."

"Ee" is "eye."

The "gowan" is the mountain daisy of Scotland.

"Fa'" is "fall."

Like many another simple lyric of love and devotion this owes much of its popularity to the
sweet melody of the music to which it is usually sung.

The Lost Child

(Volume VII, page 409)

1. Where did the poet wander? Is the picture on page 409 a beautiful one? Is it your idea of
a sunny glade? On what or on whom was the poet musing? Where his thoughts pleasant? To what
does he liken his thoughts? What are guideless thoughts? Do you think his "love" is a person,
or is it his work, his calling?

2. What chanced to go astray? Did Lowell sometimes fear for the future? How does he express
the fear? Who brought back the wandering thoughts? Where did the thoughts rest? Who had the
"snowy arms"? If Lowell feared the future at any time, what was it that brought calm to him again?

3. What is the "soft nest"? Who is the "happy one"? Whose hair "shone golden in the sun"? How
could a thought of fear seem like a "heavenly child"? Was it Hope that thus transformed all
his thoughts?

4. Upon what did Hope's eyes smile mildly down? What was blessed with so deep a love? What
clasped the neck of Hope? What was it that fell asleep? What was the lost child? However, when
the reader has gone a little farther he will realize that Crockett shows his own character
in his writings, and that his language is picturesque and entertaining. Moreover, it is language
that was characteristic of the early settlers in the region where the frontiersman lived, and
hence is of some historical interest to us.

No apology is needed for including the selection in these volumes, although it has no fine
literary merit; for it is the plain, direct story of a strong man with a clear brain, who accomplished
whatever he undertook, whether it was building a home, fighting the Indians, or writing a book.

The story will speak for itself, and as it is a truthful account of things that actually happened,
it will appeal strongly to the imagination of all young readers. However, it is worth while
to call specific attention to some of the faults in style and actual errors in grammar, in
order that the reader may not be affected unfortunately by the language, or be led to approve
it as a style to be followed in these modern days. This can be done by means of questions,
and as an illustration of the method we will consider the first four paragraphs of the selection,
beginning on page 37.

"There had been no war among us for so long that but few who were not too old to bear arms
knew anything about the business." Does the phrase among us mean that the settlers had not
fought among themselves, or that they had not been in conflict with the Indians? What was Crockett's
exact meaning? Does he convey it clearly? Does the word business seem dignified enough to be
applied to war?

"I couldn't fight at all." Does the abbreviation of the words could not make Crockett's style
dignified or familiar? Do you often see similar abbreviations in what is known as "good literature,"
except as they are found in conversation, where the tendency is always to use abbreviated forms
and familiar terms? Does not the use of such abbreviations in this selection make it seem as
though Crockett were talking to his readers in a free and easy manner, rather than as though
he were writing a formal book?

"When I heard of the mischief." In the first sentence of this paragraph, Crockett speaks of
a "most bloody butchery" at Fort Mimms. Now he refers to it as the mischief. Is the word mischief
strong enough?

"In a few days a general meeting of the militia was called." Who were the militia? Why could
not the militia be sent out as a body instead of calling for volunteers? Does he mean the organized
militia, or simply the able-bodied men in that vicinity?

"Began to beg me not to turn out." Is turn out a slang phrase here, or is it a term commonly
used in speaking of the assemblage of the militia?

"It was mighty hard to go against her arguments." Does the word mighty show refinement? What
word would be better? Does the phrase go against look well in a book? Is the word would as
it appears the first time used properly? Is should the right word to use? Is got willing correct
English? Does the word until express the meaning Crockett intends to convey? If "there would
be no fighting done until they were all killed in their houses," could there be any fighting
done afterward? What words should be used in place of until? Is the word would used properly
the second time it appears in the sentence?

"Seeing I was bent on it." Can you find authority for using the phrase bent on it to mean determined
to do it?

"The truth is my dander was up and nothing but war should bring it right again." What does
the dictionary say about the use of the word dander? Do you suppose it was a common word among
Crockett's friends? Is the word should properly used in this sentence? Is the proper word would?
Is it a common mistake even now to use would for should and should for would? How may we know
which word to use? Who were the men that were paraded? Was Crockett among them? Whom did Jones
address? When Crockett uses the word men and the word us, twice in the same sentence is his
meaning perfectly clear? Who were marching up and down? Does this mean that they marched up
and down in front of the regiment? What was this regiment before which they marched up and
down? Does regiment here mean the same as militia in the paragraph before?

"We received orders to start on the next Monday week." What is the meaning of next Monday week?
If they assembled on Wednesday, how many days would elapse before they were to start, and on
what day would they start?

"Mounted my horse and set sail to join my company." How can a man set sail when he is mounted
on a horse? Is such a mixing of figures evidence of good writing? Is felt wolfish all over
a fine phrase? Is it an expressive phrase? What was to be judged from himself--that all were
determined to fight, or that the whole army was of the real grit? Does the fact that Crockett
felt wolfish all over show that he was determined to fight, or that he had real grit? What
is the literal meaning of grit? What does it mean as Crockett uses it here? Is it proper to
use the word as Crockett uses it?

Probably it is not worth while to push this critical study any farther. It will be seen by
this time that Crockett wrote as he talked, and accordingly, his story lacks the polish and
literary beauties that men trained to write could have given it.

The Impeachment of Warren Hastings

(Volume IX, page 32)

Words are interesting things, and people who have never tried the experiment will be surprised
to learn how much pleasure there is to be found in the use of the dictionary. We consult the
dictionary only when we wish to know the meaning of a word, or its pronunciation, but there
are numberless other facts in the volume that are more interesting, if not more valuable, than
the definitions and marks of pronunciation. In the history and derivation of words may be found
many interesting and surprising facts which, if they are known, give increased force and meaning
to the words.

