Adapting the illustration of the books to a patent office classification: If it were possible
to view these characteristics as patentable in combinations of all or in any combinations less
than all, and also as separate characteristics, 16 divisions additional to the 256 for each
independent characteristic would have to be provided, as well as other divisions for combinations
of less than the whole, in order to make the classification absolutely indicative of every
feature, and the number of divisions would be enormous. In such a classification, after the
proper division had been located, the search would be nothing, the difficulty would be to find
the appropriate class.

Expedients to reduce the number of subdivisions.--Fortunately most people carry on their mental
processes in accordance with certain uniformities. Under this uniformity of thought no patentable
relationship may be alleged between a quarto volume and the subject of history or between a
leather binding and the German language; wherefore 4 classes of coordinate value, based on
the 4 characteristics, each divided into 4 subclasses, 16 divisions in all, may serve the purpose
of a Patent Office search. But if, as sometimes happens, a patentable relationship had been
assumed and admitted between a leather binding and any of the languages, or any of the subjects,
or between any two or more of those different characteristics, provision could be made for
such combinations by the following expedients:

(1) Arrange the characteristics, in the order of relative significance or importance for the
purpose in view, in four groups, giving each group the characteristic title. Under each title
arrange the varieties in a similar relation as follows in either (1) or (2):

             (1)                             (2)
         Cl. X.--BOOKS.                 Cl. X.--BOOKS.

 0.  Miscellaneous.                 1. Subject-matter--
 0.5 Subject-matter--               2.   History.
       1. History.                  3.   Science.
       2. Science.                  4.   Art.
       3. Art.                      5.   Fiction.
       4. Fiction--                 6. Language--
 4.5 Language--                     7.   English.
       5. English.                  8.   German.
       6. German.                   9.   French.
       7. French.                  10.   Spanish.
       8. Spanish.                 11. Size--
 8.5 Size--                        12.   Folio.
       9. Folio.                   13.   Quarto.
      10. Quarto.                  14.   Octavo.
      11. Octavo.                  15.   Duodecimo.
      12. Duodecimo.               16. Binding--
 12.5 Binding material--           17.   Leather.
      13. Leather.                 18.   Rawhide.
      14. Rawhide.                 19.   Cloth.
      15. Cloth.                   20.   Paper.
      16. Paper.

Subject-matter, assumed to be the most important characteristic, is placed first. Any exhibit
of mere material for binding, mere size, mere language, or mere subject-matter, would fall
into the correspondingly entitled group. If, however, a book on history in German or a history
in red leather, etc., were to be classified, it would be placed in subclass "History" in the
subject-matter group, and a French book in green cloth would be placed in subclass "French"
in the language group. That is, combinations of any characteristic with any one or more other
characteristics may be placed in the group for that characteristic deemed the most significant
and which is highest in the schedule. Again, by assigning a number to each generic title, each
such title becomes thereby the miscellaneous group for varieties other than those indented
under it, as well as for all varieties associating any characteristic with one or more of those
standing lower down. Thus, a book of poems would belong in subclass "Subject-matter" and a
16mo volume bound with purple celluloid covers would belong in subclass "Size." So, by giving
meaning to relative position, exhaustive arrangement is sought to be provided in a reasonable
number of groups. To provide for other features that may be presented in future, an additional
miscellaneous group may be added at the top (1), or the class title (2) might be deemed to
represent the unclassified residue and a depository for future matter not specifically provided
for.

(2) If the number of instances of association of subject-matter and binding materials, language
and size, etc., are numerous, additional groups might be placed above the groups having the
names of the characteristics, the fact of the existence of these groups indicating that the
characteristic groups are for single characteristics only and do not include books having several
different ones. In such case the schedule might be headed by a miscellaneous group, having
either the title "Miscellaneous" or the title of the class, to receive associated characteristics
not provided for by specific titles, immediately followed by subclasses for the particular
associations found to be most numerous, as follows:

BOOKS.

 Miscellaneous.
 Subject-matter and language.
 Subject-matter and binding material.
 Subject-matter.
 Language.
 Size.
 Binding material.

To illustrate further, selecting for the purpose a mass of objects presenting problems more
nearly like those presented to the office in questions of patentability, let it be assumed
that one is to classify the objects in a heap of metal scrap.

On looking over the material of the heap it is noticed that there are a large number of metal
balls; some have holes through them, some are hollow, some are smooth on the outside, and some
are hollow, smooth, and perforated, but they are all nevertheless balls, and accordingly all
balls can be separated out and placed in a heap by themselves. Next, the presence of bars in
the general mass is observed, some long, some short, some straight, some twisted, some of round
stock, some of square stock, etc. These may be gathered together and placed in a separate pile
at the left of the balls. It is further observed that there are many differently shaped annular
bodies in the heap resembling generally the single links of a chain, some circular, some elliptical,
some twisted, some made of round stock, some of square stock, etc. They are all nevertheless
annular bodies; these may be placed in a separate pile at the left of the bars.

Now, in the remnant of the original heap, a sufficient number of similar single elements does
not remain from which to make a smaller pile of elements. Different combinations of links,
balls, and bars are, however, observed in the remaining heap. Some are combinations of links,
some combinations of a ball and link, some of a bar and link, and some of a bar, link, and
ball. These different combinations may be separated out in the order named and placed in separate
piles. After all these things have been removed, there is left in the original heap a number
of odds and ends or miscellaneous metal objects.

These several groups may now be arranged in the inverse order in which (in the particular illustration
adopted) they have been removed, thus:

 1. Miscellaneous (remnants of the original heap of scrap).
 2. Combined bar, link, and ball.
 3. Combined bar and link.
 4. Combined bar and ball.
 5. Combined link and ball.
 6. Chains.
 7. Links.
 8. Bars.
 9. Balls.

Knowing that objects of metal scrap not covered by the specific titles will be found in the
miscellaneous group, and that the more complex specifically-named things are to be found first
after the miscellaneous or at the left of the row of piles of materials thus separated and
arranged, and the more simple things and parts farther to the right, the particular piles to
resort to for the things wanted may be definitely determined. The same processes may be applied
to each of the piles. Thus, balls, in the above illustration, may be divided into--

 Balls--

  10. Hollow perforated.
  11. Hollow grooved.
  12. Hollow.
  13. Perforated.
  14. Grooved.

Again, the same processes may be applied to a mass of more diversified junk, of which the metal
scrap may form one pile, rags another, old bricks another, old timber another, and, still another,
timber having metal-straps, bolts, nails, etc., connected with it.

Superiority and inferiority.--In the arrangement of subclasses in a class, those groups that
are related to each other as wholes and parts are arranged so that the wholes shall stand before
the parts, and so that subclasses defined by effect or by special use shall stand before those
defined by function or general use. For example, in the scrap illustration above, assuming
the titles to be in a printed arrangement, "chains" precedes "links," which may be parts of
chains, and if it had been desired to separate animal-drags, for instance, from the scrap,
some animal-drags being particular adaptations of a bar, links, and ball, the group of animal-drags
should precede "Bar, link, and ball." The words "superior" and "inferior" have been used to
indicate this relationship. A class or subclass defined to receive a certain combination is
superior to one defined to receive an element or a combination that is a part of that certain
combination. A class or subclass defined to receive means for making a particular product,
as an electric lamp, is superior to a class or subclass designed to perform a general function,
as pumping air from a container. And whenever a question of assignment of a patent or application
that contains matters of two or more groups bearing that relation is raised, the "superior"
group is selected to receive it.

Further, in those instances in which groups are formed on different bases or different characteristics,
not comparable with each other, and a patent is presented having matter falling in each group,
that group which is highest in position is preferred in those instances where separate provision
for means having both characteristics has not been made.

In cases of necessity, as where a combination is presented for which no class has been definitely
provided, but classes exist into which the several parts would fall if separately claimed,
the same practice that obtains in similar situations with respect to two or more subclasses
of a class may be followed with respect to two or more classes and the patent placed in that
class which, in accordance with above-stated principles, should be deemed the "superior."

