Transcriber's Note:

  Every effort has been made to replicate this text as faithfully as
  possible. Therefore odd spellings--even in geographical names--were
  mostly retained. Obvious errors were corrected though, as well as
  some punctuation issues--especially regarding the placement of
  quotation marks.

  Text that was italic in the original is marked with .]

                                 THE
                             TRAVELLERS.

                               A TALE.

                     DESIGNED FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

                                BY THE
                          AUTHOR OF REDWOOD.

               "Then slowly climb the many-winding way,
               And frequent turn to linger as you go,
               From loftier rocks new loveliness survey."
                                             CHILDE HAROLD.

                              NEW-YORK:

                  PUBLISHED BY E. BLISS AND E. WHITE,

                             And Sold by
              COLLINS AND HANNAY, NEW-YORK, AND CUMMINGS,
                       HILLIARD, AND CO. BOSTON.

                                1825.

  Southern District of New-York, ss.
                                                    JAMES DILL,
                         Clerk of the Southern District of New-York.

  J. Seymour, printer.

    The following pages are inscribed to the youthful
    brother and sister, who are associated with every
    picture of unfolding virtue, in the mind of their
    affectionate friend,
                                       THE AUTHOR.

THE TRAVELLERS.

In the month of June, (the jubilee month of poets and travellers) in the year eighteen hundred
and eighteen, Mr. Sackville, his wife, and their two children, Edward and Julia, made the grand
tour of Niagara, the lakes, Montreal, Quebec, &c. Both parents and children kept journals,
in which they recorded with fidelity whatever they observed which they deemed worthy of note.
We have been favored with the perusal of them all, and have been permitted to make a few extracts
from them, which we intend to combine into a brief narrative, that we are sure will amuse our
young readers, provided their delicate essence does not escape our unskilful hands.

First, it will be necessary that our readers should know into whose society they are thus unceremoniously
introduced.

Mr. Sackville, in the prime of life retired from the successful practice of the law, to a beautiful
estate in the country. Various motives were assigned by his acquaintances for his removal;
but as those diligent inquirers, who so conscientiously investigate their neighbor's affairs,
are apt to pass over simple and obvious motives, those which, in this instance, governed Mr. Sackville's
conduct, escaped their observation.

The truth was, he had a strong predilection for a country life; he was wearied with briefs
and declarations; he loved above all things, the society of his accomplished wife, and he ardently
desired to participate with her the happiness of educating their fine children; and besides,
he had many little plans of utility and benevolence, such as are naturally suggested to an
active and philanthropic mind on entering a new sphere of life.

Mr. Sackville purchased a fine estate in the town of ----, in the state of ----. We have left
these blanks, which we are well aware are very provoking to all, and especially to young readers,
in order to allow them to locate the amiable Sackvilles (the name we confess to be fictitious)
wherever they choose, north or south of the Potomac, east or west of the Alleghanies; for we
sincerely believe that such pattern families are to be found in every section of our favored
country.

Edward was ten, Julia eight years old, when they removed from town. They felt a very natural
reluctance at leaving the city, their companions, and the only pleasures they had ever known.
But the state of their feelings will best appear by a conversation which occurred between them
and their mother, shortly before their removal, while Edward was assisting her to pack up some
vials, which with their contents, composed his chemical laboratory.

"You are very good, dear mother," he said, kissing her, "to take such pains to pack up these
things: you have been in such a panic about spontaneous combustion ever since the night you
found the phosphorus[1] on fire, that I expected my little cupboard and all its treasures would
be condemned. But," he added, with a sigh, "I suppose you think I shall want my chemistry more
than ever to amuse me in the country."

  [1] Phosphorus is a matter which shines or even burns
      spontaneously, and without the application of any sensible
      fire.

"No, my dear boy, not more than ever."

"Oh, mother! Bob Eaton's father says the country is such a bore--and Bob thinks so too."

"And what," asked Mrs. Sackville, "do Bob Eaton's father and Bob Eaton, mean by a bore?"

"Why, they mean, certainly"----Edward began in a confident tone, and then faltered a little:
"that is, I suppose they mean, that----that----that----" Edward found it as difficult to explain
their meaning, as the original utterers of the profound remark would have done if suddenly
called on: and he was glad to be interrupted by a soliloquy of his little sister, who stood
in one corner of the room, wrapping something in half a dozen envelopes.

"Farewell!" she exclaimed, as the man says in the play, "'a long farewell' to my dear dancing
shoes--"

"Pardon me, Miss Julia," said her mother, "for cutting short such a pretty pathetic parting:
but here is another pair of dancing shoes, which you will please to put with those you already
have, and I trust you will have the pleasure of dancing them both out before you come to town
again."

"Dancing them out, mother! shall we dance in the country?" exclaimed both the children in one
breath. "I thought," continued Edward, "that we should have nothing to do in the country but
get our lessons; and all work and no play, you know, mother, makes Jack a dull boy."

"Oh yes, Ned, I know that favorite proverb of all children. I am sorry to find that you have
such a dread of the country. You know, my dear children, that your father and I are devoted
to your welfare, and that we should do nothing that would not contribute to your happiness."

Edward had quick feelings, and he perceived that there was something reproachful in his mother's
manner. "I am sure," he said, "that Julia and I wish to do every thing that you and papa like."

"That is not enough, my dear boy, we wish you to like to do what we like."

"But surely, mother, you cannot blame us for not wishing to go and live in the country."

"No, Edward, I should as soon think of blaming poor blind Billy, because he cannot see. Unhappily
you have been entirely confined to town, and are ignorant of the pleasures of the country.
I only blame you for thinking that your father and I would voluntarily do any thing to lessen
your innocent pleasures."

"Oh, mother!" exclaimed Edward, "we did not think any thing about that."

"Well, my dear, perhaps I am wrong in expecting you to think--reflection is the habit of a
riper age than yours. You must trust me for one year, and at the expiration of that period,
you and your sister shall decide whether we return to town or remain in the country."

"Oh, mother! how very good you are. One year--well, one year won't be so very long--only think,
Julia, in one year we shall be back again."

"Not quite so fast, Edward," said his mother; "you are not to decide till the end of the year."

"Oh, I know that, mama, but of course we shall decide to come back."

Mrs. Sackville looked incredulous, and smiled at his childish confidence in his own constancy.
"I see, mother, you don't believe me; but of course, Julia and I can't wish to live away from
every thing that is amusing."

"Come, Julia, your brother has taken it upon himself to be spokesman, but let me hear from
you, what are the amusements that you so dread to leave."

"Why, in the first place, mother, there is our dancing-school: every time I go to take my lesson,
Mr. Dubois says, 'Pauvre, Miss Julie, point de cotillon; point de gavots in de country; ah,
qu'il est sauvage--de country.'"

"Dubois for ever!" exclaimed Edward, as Julia finished her mimicry of her master's tone and
grimace. "Oh, he is the drollest creature--and Julia is such a mimic--the girls will have nobody
to make them laugh when she is gone."

Mrs. Sackville secretly rejoiced that Julia was to be removed, in a great degree, from the
temptation to exercise so mischievous a faculty. She, however, did not turn the drift of the
conversation to make any remarks on it. "Console Mr. Dubois," she said, "my dear, Julia, with
the assurance, that your mother will take care that you do not lose the benefit of his labors
in the service of the graces. Your father tells me, there is in our neighborhood a very decent
musician, who does all the fiddling for the parish. I have purchased some cotillon music, and
I hope your favorite tunes will soon resound in our new mansion."

"Oh, that will be delightful, mother, but Edward and I cannot dance a cotillon alone."

"No, but we are not going to a desert. There are enough clever children in the neighborhood,
who will form a set with you; and now, Julia, that I see by your brightened eye, that you think
the affliction of leaving the dancing-school will be alleviated, what is the next subject of
your regret?"

"The next, mother? what is next, Edward?"

"I do not know what you will call next, Julia, but I think the theatre comes next."

"O! the theatre--yes, the theatre--how could I forget the theatre?"

"Well, my children, I think you can live without the theatre, as you go but once, or at most
twice in a season; a pleasure that occupies so small a portion of your time, cannot be very
important to your happiness, or regretted very deeply."

"A small portion of time, to be sure, mother," replied Edward; "but then you will own it is
delightful: you yourself exclaimed the other night when the curtain drew up, 'what a beautiful
spectacle!'"

"Yes, my love, but nature has far more beautiful spectacles, and I have kept you too long from
them."

"But, mother," insisted Edward, "nothing can be so pleasant and startling, as when the curtain
suddenly draws up and discovers a beautiful scene."

"It may be more startling, my dear Ned, but it is not half so delightful as to see the curtain
of night withdrawn in a clear summer morning, and the lovely objects of nature lighting up
with the rays of the rising sun."

"But, mother, there is the orchestra--"

"And in the country, my dear, we have bands of voluntary musicians on every side of us, who
set all their wants, and all their pleasures to music, and pour them forth in the sweetest
notes, from morning till night. These musicians will hover about our house and garden the entire
summer, and ask no reward, but to share with us our cherries and raspberries; a small pittance
from the generous stores of summer. But, come, my children, what next?"

"What next, Julia? Let us think--Oh, there is the museum. I am sure, mother, you cannot say
a word against the museum--such a variety of curiosities, and elegant specimens of every thing,
and I have heard you and papa both say, that it is a very instructive as well as amusing place
to visit."

"Certainly it is, my dear, a vast collection of natural wonders, and artificial curiosities;
and I am glad you value it sufficiently to regret it. But, my dear children, nature has her
museums every where: her productions are all curiosities, and the more you study them, the
more you will admire the wisdom and goodness of their Creator. Every vegetable that springs
from the kind bosom of the earth--the earth itself--the rocks--the pebbles--living creatures,
their instincts and habitudes--are all a study for you. The volume is open and outspread before
you: God grant me grace to train your minds and hearts, that you may read therein--read with
that enlightened understanding and benevolent spirit, which prompted a christian philosopher
to say, 'the air, the earth, the water, teem with delighted existence.

Any farther record of the conversation would be superfluous, and might prove tedious. It is
our purpose to give some anecdotes of Edward and Julia, and not their history.

As might have been expected, our young friends in the country, were like beings rescued from
an artificial mode of existence, and restored to their native element; and when their mother,
at the expiration of the year, asked them if they were ready to return to town--

"Return to town, now, mother!" exclaimed Edward, "it is impossible."

"Some time or other, mama, perhaps we should like to go back, but not now," said Julia. "We
cannot go now, when we have so much to do. The frost is just out of the ground, and Ned and
I are as busy as bees in our garden."

"And, besides," said Edward, "there is my brood of ducks, that the old hen has just brought
off; I am so curious to see her fright when they take to the water; and there are my bantam
pigeons; bantams are so delicate, that you know, mother, I could not trust them to any body's
care but my own."

"I think old Cæsar might take charge of your bantams, Ned," said Julia; "but I am sure my pet
lamb--"

"Oh, Julia," interrupted Edward, laughing, "give her the sentimental french name."

"Very well, I will, and you may laugh as much you please: Orpheline--I am sure Orpheline would
not relish her food from any hand but mine, she is so used to me; and my darling little partridges,
that I am trying to bring up to be domestic birds, I would not leave them before I have made
a 'satisfactory experiment,' as papa says; and then, mother, we did not half fill our herbariums
last summer. Oh, we have a world of business on our hands," continued Julia, with the air of
one who duly realized the importance of her momentous concerns.

Mrs. Sackville smiled, but made no reply, and Edward said, "I was thinking, mother, as I sat
on the door-step last evening, and listened to the hum of the happy little creatures that are
waking up for the season, that I had new eyes and new ears given to me, since I came to live
in the country. Even the hoarse croaking of the frogs in our meadow, sounded pleasantly to
me; quite musical."

"Equal to the music of the orchestra, my dear Ned."

"Not quite so fine, mother," replied Edward, "but it seemed to have more meaning in it."

"You are right, my dear Edward," said Mrs. Sackville; "you have new senses, or rather, your
senses are unlocked to the reception of the sweet influences of nature. I have more happiness
than I can express to you, my dear children, in finding that you have already imbibed a taste
for those pure pleasures, that will remain the same, whatever change of condition or circumstances
may await you."[2]

  [2] Miss Hannah More, at the age of seventy-five, said to
      Professor Griscom, 'the love of the country, and of
      flowers, is the only natural pleasure that remains to me
      unimpaired.'

Another year passed to this virtuous family, full of useful and innocent occupations, and in
the month of the already noted June, they left their home. The parents with rational expectations
of pleasure, from visiting some of the most interesting scenes in our country, and the children
with the anticipation of unbounded delight, so characteristic of childhood.

