"Well, you are not surprised at that, I reckon. Rest assured, my friend, if we could only let
young ladies have their way, our patients would diminish rapidly. Why, how she sings to-night!
I never knew her voice so good--did you?"

"Oh, she is happy, Mayhew; all her thoughts are joyful! Her heart is revelling. It was very
sinful to be so anxious on her account."

"So I always told you; but you wouldn't mind me. She'll make old bones."

"You think so, do you?"

"Why, look at her yourself, and say whether we should be justified in thinking otherwise. Is
she not the picture of health and animation?"

"Yes, Mayhew, but her mother"----

"There, be quiet will you? The song is over."

Ellen returned to her father's side, sat upon a stool before him, and placed her arms upon
his knee. The incumbent drew her head there, and touched her cheek in playfulness.

"Come, my friend," exclaimed the physician, "that isn't allowable by any means. Recollect two
young gentlemen are present, and we can't be tantalized."

The minister smiled, and Ellen looked at me.

"Do you remember, doctor," enquired the latter, "this very day eleven years, when you came
over on the grey pony, that walked into this room after you, and frightened us all so?"

"Yes, puss, I do very well; and don't I recollect your tying my wig to the chair, and then
calling me to the window, to see how I should look when I had left it behind me, you naughty
little girl!"

"That was very wrong, sir; but you know you forgave me for it."

"No, I didn't. Come here, though, and I will now."

She left her stool, and ran laughing to him. The doctor professed to whisper in her ear, but
kissed her cheek. He coughed and hemmed, and, with a serious air, asked me what I meant by
grinning at him.

"Do you know, doctor," continued Ellen, "that this is my first birth-day, since that one, which
we have kept without an interruption. Either papa or you have been always called away before
half the evening was over."

"Well, and very sorry you would be, I imagine, if both of us were called away now. It would
be very distressing to you; wouldn't it?"

"It would hardly render her happy, Mayhew," said Mr Fairman, "to be deprived of her father's
society on such an occasion."

"No, indeed, papa," said Ellen, earnestly; "and the good doctor does not think so either."

"Doesn't he, though, you wicked pussy? You would be very wretched, then, if we were obliged
to go? No doubt of it, especially if we happened to leave that youngster there behind us."

"Ellen shall read to us, Mayhew," said the incumbent, turning from the subject. "You will find
Milton on my table, Caleb."

As he spoke, Ellen imparted to her friend a look of tenderest remonstrance, and the doctor
said no more.

The incumbent, himself a fine reader, had taken great pains to teach his child the necessary
and simple, but much neglected art of reading well. There was much grace and sweetness in her
utterance, correct emphasis, and no effort. An hour passed delightfully with the minister's
favourite and beloved author; now the maiden read, now he. He listened with greater pleasure
to her voice than to his own or any other, but he watched the smallest diminution of its power--the
faintest evidence of failing strength--and released her instantly, most anxious for her health
and safety, then and always.

Then arose, as will arise from the contented bosom of domestic piety, grateful rejoicings--the
incense of an altar glowing with love's own offerings! Past time was summoned up, weighed with
the present, and, with all the mercies which accompanied it, was still found wanting in the
perfect and unsullied happiness that existed now. "The love of heaven," said the minister,
"had never been so manifest and clear. His labours in the service of his people, his prayers
on their behalf, were not unanswered. Improvement was taking place around him; even those who
had given him cause for deepest sorrow, were already turning from the path of error into that
of rectitude and truth. The worst characters in the village had been checked by the example
of their fellows, and by the voice of their own conscience, (he might have added, by the working
of their minister's most affectionate zeal) and his heart was joyful--how joyful he could not
say--on their account. His family was blessed--(and he looked at Ellen with a moistened eye)--with
health, and with the promise of its continuance. His best and oldest friend was at his side;
and he, who was dear to them all on her account whose life would soon be linked with his, was
about to add to every other blessing, the advantages which must follow the possession of so
good a son. What more could he require? How much more was this than the most he could deserve!"

Doctor Mayhew, touched with the solemn feeling of the moment, became a serious man. He took
the incumbent by the hand, and spoke.

"Yes, Fairman, we have cause for gratitude. You and I have roughed it many years, and gently
enough do we go down the hill. To behold the suffering of other men, and to congratulate ourselves
upon our exemption, is not the rational mode of receiving goodness from Almighty God--yet it
is impossible for a human being to look about him, and to see family after family worn down
by calamity, whilst he himself is free from any, and not have his heart yearning with thankfulness,
knowing, as he must, how little he merits his condition. You and I are happy fellows, both
of us; and all we have to do, is to think so, and to prepare quietly to leave our places, whilst
the young folks grow up to take them. As for the boy there, if he doesn't smooth your pillow,
and lighten for you the weight of old age as it comes on, then am I much mistaken, and ready
to regret the steps which I have taken to bring you all together."

There was little spoken after this. The hearts were full to the brink--to speak was to interfere
with their consummate joy. The doctor was the only one who made the attempt, and he, after
a very ineffectual endeavour to be jocose, held his peace. The Bible was produced. The servants
of the house appeared. A chapter was read from it by the incumbent--a prayer was offered up,
then we separated.

I stole to Ellen as she was about to quit us for the night. "And you, dear Ellen," I whispered
in her ear, "are you, too, happy?"

"Yes, dearest," she murmured with a gentle pressure, that passed like wildfire to my heart.
"I fear too happy. Earth will not suffer it"

We parted, and in twelve hours those words were not without their meaning.

We met on the following morning at the usual breakfast hour. The moment that I entered the
apartment, I perceived that Ellen was indisposed--that something had occurred, since the preceding
night, to give her anxiety or pain. Her hand trembled slightly, and a degree of perturbation
was apparent in her movements. My first impression was, that she had received ill news, for
there was nothing in her appearance to indicate the existence of bodily suffering. It soon
occurred to me, however, that the unwonted recent excitement might account for all her symptoms--that
they were, in fact, the natural consequence of that sudden abundance of joyous spirits which
I had remarked in her during the early part of the evening. I satisfied myself with this belief,
or strove to do so--the more easily, perhaps, because I saw her father indifferent to her state,
if not altogether ignorant of it. He who was ever lying in wait--ever watching--ever ready
to apprehend the smallest evidence of ill health, was, on this morning, as insensible to the
alteration which had taken place in the darling object of his solicitude, as though he had
no eyes to see, or object to behold; so easy is it for a too anxious diligence in a pursuit
to overshoot and miss the point at which it aims. Could he, as we sat, have guessed the cause
of all her grief--could some dark spirit, gloating on man's misery, have breathed one fearful
word into his ear, bringing to life and light the melancholy tale of distant years--how would
his nature have supported the announcement--how bore the?----but let me not anticipate. I say
that I dismissed all thought of serious mischief, by attributing at once all signs of it to
the undue excitement of the festive night. As the breakfast proceeded, I believed that her
anxiety diminished, and with that passed away my fears.

At the end of the pleasure garden of the parsonage was a paddock, and, immediately beyond this,
another field, leading to a small valley of great beauty. On one side of "the Dell," as it
was called, was a summer-house, which the incumbent had erected for the sake of the noble prospect
which the elevation commanded. To this retreat Ellen and I had frequently wandered with our
books during the progress of our love. Here I had read to her of affection and constancy, consecrated
by the immortal poet's song. Here we had passed delightful hours, bestowing on the future the
same golden lustre that made so bright the present. In joy, I had called this summer-house
"the Lover's Bower," and it was pleasing to us both to think that we should visit in our after
days, for many a year, and with increasing love, a spot endeared to us by the fondest recollections.
Thither I bent my steps at the close of our repast. It wanted but two days to the time fixed
for the resumption of our studies. The boys had returned, and the note of preparation was already
sounded. I carried my task to the retreat, and there commenced my labours. An hour fled quickly
whilst I was occupied somewhat in Greek, but more in contemplation of the gorgeous scene before
me, and in lingering thoughts of her whose form was never absent, but hovered still about the
pleasure or the business of the day. The shadow of that form was yet present, when the substance
became visible to the bodily eye. Ellen followed me to the "Lover's Bower," and there surprised
me. She was even paler than before--and the burden of some disquietude was written on her gentle
brow; but a smile was on her lips--one of a languid cast--and also of encouragement and hope.
I drew her to my side. Lovers are egotists; their words point ever to themselves. She spoke
of the birth-day that had just gone by; the tranquil and blissful celebration of it. My expectant
soul was already dreaming of the next that was to come, and speaking of the increased happiness
that must accompany it.

Ellen sighed.

"It is a lover's sigh!" thought I, not heeding it.

"Whatever may be the future, Caleb," said Ellen seriously, but very calmly, "we ought to be
prepared for it. Earth is not our resting-place. We should never forget that. Should we, dearest?"

"No, love; but earth has happiness of her kind, of which her children are most sensible. Whilst
we are here, we live upon her promises."

"But oh, not to the exclusion of the brighter promises that come from heaven! You do not say
that, dear Caleb?"

"No, Ellen. You could not give your heart to him who thought so; howbeit, you have bestowed
it upon one unworthy of your piety and excellence."

"Do not mock me, Caleb," said Ellen, blushing. "I have the heart of a sinner, that needs all
the mercy of heaven for its weaknesses and faults. I have ever fallen short of my duty."

"You are the only one who says it. Your father will not say so, and I question if the villagers
would take your part in this respect."

"Do not misunderstand me, Caleb. I am not, I trust, a hypocrite. I have endeavoured to be useful
to the poor and helpless in our neighbourhood--I have been anxious to lighten the heaviness
of a parent's days, and, as far as I could, to indemnify him for my mother's loss. I believe
that I have done the utmost my imperfect faculties permitted. I have nothing to charge myself
with on these accounts. But my Heavenly Father," continued the maiden, her cheeks flushing,
her eyes filling with tears--"oh! I have been backward in my affection and duty to him. I have
not ever had before my eyes his honour and glory in my daily walk--I have not done every act
in subordination to his will, for his sake, and with a view to his blessing. But He is merciful
as well as just, and if his punishment falls now upon my head, it is assuredly to wean me from
my error, and to bring me to himself."

The maid covered her moistened cheek, and sobbed loudly. I was fully convinced that she was
suffering from the reaction consequent upon extreme joy. I was rather relieved than distressed
by her burst of feeling, and I did not attempt for a time to check her tears.

"Tell me, dear Caleb," she said herself at length, "if I were to lose you--if it were to please
Heaven to take you suddenly from this earth, would it not be sinful to murmur at his act? Would
it not be my duty to bend to his decree, and to prepare to follow you?"

"You would submit to such a trial as a Christian woman ought. I am sure you would, dear Ellen--parted,
as we should be, but for a season, and sure of a reunion."

"And would you do this?" enquired the maiden quickly. "Oh, say that you would, dear Caleb!
Let me hear it."

"You are agitated, dearest. We will not talk of this now. There is grace in heaven appointed
for the bitterest seasons of adversity. It does not fail when needed. Let us pray that the
hour may be distant which shall bring home to either so great a test of resignation."

"Yes, pray, dear Stukely; but, should it come suddenly and quickly--oh, let us be prepared
to meet it!"

"We will endeavour, then; and now to a more cheerful theme. Do we go to Dr Mayhew's, as proposed?
We shall spend a happy day with our facetious, but most kind-hearted friend."

Ellen burst again into a flood of tears.

"What is the matter, love?" I exclaimed. "Confide to me, and tell the grief that preys upon
your mind."

"Do not be alarmed, Stukely," she answered rapidly; "it may be nothing after all; but when
I woke this morning--it may, I hope for your sake that it is nothing serious--but my dear mother,
it was the commencement of her own last fatal illness."

She stopped suddenly, as if her speech had failed her--coughed sharply, and raised her handkerchief
to her mouth. I perceived a thick, broad spot of BLOOD, and shuddered.

"Do not be frightened, Stukely," she continued, shocked fearfully herself. "I shall recover
soon. It is the suddenness--I was unprepared. So it was when I awoke this morning--and it startled
me, because I heard it was the first bad symptom that my poor mother showed. Now, I pray you,
Stukely, to be calm. Perhaps I shall get well; but if I do not, I shall be so happy--preparing
for eternity, with you, dear Caleb, at my side. You promised to be tranquil, and to bear up
against this day; and I am sure you will--yes, for my sake--that I may see you so, and have
no sorrow."

I took the dear one to my bosom, and, like a child, cried upon her neck. What could I say?
In one moment I was a bankrupt and a beggar--my fortunes were scattered to the winds--my solid
edifice as stricken by the thunder-bolt, and lay in ruins before me! Was it real?

Ellen grew calmer as she looked at me, and spoke.

"Listen to me, dearest Stukely. It was my duty to acquaint you with this circumstance, and
I have done so, relying on your manliness and love. You have already guessed what I am about
to add. My poor father"--her lips quivered as she said the word--"he must know nothing for
the present. It would be cruel unnecessarily to alarm him. His heart would break. He MUST be
kept in ignorance of this. You shall see Mayhew; he will, I trust, remove our fears. Should
he confirm them, he can communicate to papa." Again she paused, and her tears trickled to her
lips, which moved convulsively.

"Do not speak, my beloved," I exclaimed. "Compose yourself. We will return home. Be it as you
wish. I will see Mayhew immediately, and bring him with me to the parsonage. Seek rest--avoid
exertion."

I know not what conversation followed this. I know not how we reached our home again. I have
no recollection of it. Three times upon our road was the cough repeated, and, as at first,
it was accompanied by that hideous sight. In vain she turned her head away to escape detection.
It was impossible to deceive my keen and piercing gaze. I grew pale as death as I beheld on
each occasion the frightful evidence of disease; but the maiden pressed my hand, and smiled
sweetly and encouragingly to drive away my fears. She did not speak--I had forbidden her to
do so; but her looks--full of tenderness and love--told how all her thoughts were for her lover--all
her anxiety and care.

At my request, as soon as we arrived at home, she went to bed. I saw the incumbent--acquainted
him with her sudden illness--taking care to keep its nature secret--and then ran for my life
to Dr Mayhew's residence. The very appearance of blood was to me, as it is always to the common
and uninformed observer, beyond all doubt confirmatory of the worst suspicions--the harbinger
of certain death. There is something horrible in its sight, presented in such a form; but not
for itself do we shrink as we behold it--not for what it is, but for what it awfully proclaims.
I was frantic and breathless when I approached the doctor's house, and half stupified when
I at length stood before him.

I told my errand quickly.

The doctor attempted instantly to mislead me, but he failed in his design. I saw, in spite
of the forced smile that would not rest upon his lips, how unexpectedly and powerfully this
news had come upon him--how seriously he viewed it. He could not remove my miserable convictions
by his own abortive efforts at cheerfulness and unconcern. He moved to his window, and strove
to whistle, and to speak of the haymakers who were busy in the fields, and of the weather;
but the more he feigned to regard my information as undeserving of alarm, the more convinced
I grew that deadly mischief had already taken place. There was an air about him that showed
him ill at ease; and, in the midst of all his quietude and indifference, he betrayed an anxiety
to appear composed, unwarranted by an ordinary event. Had the illness been trifling indeed,
he could have afforded to be more serious and heedful.

"I will be at the parsonage some time to-day. You can return without me, Stukely."

"Dr Mayhew," I exclaimed, "I entreat, I implore you not to trifle with me! I can bear any thing
but that. Tell me the worst, and I will not shrink from it. You must not think to deceive me.
You are satisfied that there is no hope for us; I am sure you are, and you will not be just
and say so."

"I am satisfied of no such thing," answered the doctor quickly. "I should be a fool, a madman,
to speak so rashly. There is every reason to hope, I do believe, at present. Tell me one thing--does
her father know of it?"

"He does not."

"Then let it still be kept a secret from him. Her very life may depend upon his ignorance.
She must be kept perfectly composed--no agitation--no frightened faces around her. But I will
go with you, and see what can be done. I'll warrant it is nothing at all, and that puss is
well over her fright before we get to her."

Again the doctor smiled unhealthfully, and tried, awkwardly enough, to appear wholly free from
apprehension, whilst he was most uncomfortable with the amount of it.

The physician remained for half an hour with his patient, and rejoined me in the garden when
he quitted her. He looked serious and thoughtful.

"There is no hope, then?" I exclaimed immediately.

"Tush, boy," he answered; "quiet--quiet. She will do well, I hope--eventually. She has fever
on her now, which must be brought down. While that remains there will be anxiety, as there
must be always--when it leaves her, I trust she will be well again. Do you know if she has
undergone any unusual physical exertion?"

"I do not."

"I confess to you that I do not like this accident; but it is impossible to speak positively
now. Whilst the fever lasts, symptoms may be confounded and mistaken. I will watch her closely."

"Have you seen her father?"

"I have; but I have told him nothing further than he knew. He believes her slightly indisposed.
I have calmed him, and have told him not to have the child disturbed. You will see to that?"

"I will."

"And now mark me, Stukely. I expect that you will behave like a man, and as you ought. We cannot
keep Fairman ignorant of this business. Should it go on, as it may--in spite of every thing
we can do--he must know it. You have seen sufficient of his character to judge how he will
receive the information which it may be my painful lot to take to him. I think of it with dread.
It has been my pleasure to stand your friend--you must prove mine. I shall expect you to act
with fortitude and calmness, and not, by weakness and self-indulgence, to increase the pain
that will afflict the parent's heart--for it will be sufficient for Fairman to know only what
has happened to give up every hope and consolation. You must be firm on his account and chiefly
for the sake of the dear girl, who should not see your face without a smile of confidence and
love upon it. Do you hear me? I will let you weep now," he continued, noticing the tears which
prevented my reply, "provided that you dry your eyes, and keep them so from this time forward.
Do you hear me?"

"Yes," I faltered.

"And will you heed me?"

"I will try," I answered, as firmly as I might, with every hope within me crushed and killed
by the words which he had spoken.

"Very well. Then let us say no more, until we see what Providence is doing for us."

The fever of Ellen did not abate that day. The doctor did not leave the house, but remained
with the incumbent--not, as he told his friend, because he thought it necessary so to do, but
to keep the word which he had given the night before--viz., to pass the day with him. He was
sorry that he had been deprived of their company at his own abode, but he could make himself
quite comfortable where he was. About eleven o'clock at night the doctor thought it strange
that Robin had not brought his pony over, and wondered what had happened.

"Shall we send to enquire?" asked Mr Fairman.

"Oh no!" was the quick answer, "that never can be worth while. We'll wait a little longer."

At twelve the doctor spoke again. "Well, he must think of moving; but he was very tired, and
did not care to walk."

"Why not stay here, then? I cannot see, Mayhew, why you should be so uneasy at the thought
of sleeping out. Come, take your bed with us for once."

"Eh?--well--it's very late--suppose I do."

Mayhew had not been shrewd enough, and, with his ready acquiescence, the minister learned all.

I did not go to bed. My place was at her door, and there I lingered till the morning. The physician
had paid his last visit shortly after midnight, and had given orders to the nurse who waited
on the patient, to call him up if necessary, but on no account to disturb the lady if she slept
or was composed. The gentle sufferer did not require his services, or, if she did, was too
thoughtful and too kind to make it known. Early in the morning Doctor Mayhew came--the fever
had increased--and she had experienced a new attack of hæmoptysis the moment she awoke. The
doctor stepped softly from her room, and deep anxiety was written on his brow. I followed him
with eagerness. He put his finger to his lips, and said, "Remember, Stukely."

"Yes, I will--I do; but, is she better?"

"No--but I am not discouraged yet. Every thing depends upon extreme tranquillity. No one must
see her. Dear me, dear me! what is to be said to Fairman, should he ask?"

"Is she placid?" I enquired.

"She is an angel, Stukely," said the good doctor, pressing my hands, and passing on. When we
met at breakfast, the incumbent looked hard at me, and seemed to gather something from my pale
and careworn face. When Mayhew came, full of bustle, assumed, and badly too, as the shallowest
observer could perceive, he turned to him, and in a quiet voice asked "if his child was much
worse since the previous night."

"Not much," said Mayhew. "She will be better in a short time, I trust."

"May I see her?" enquired the father in the same soft tone.

"Not now--by and by perhaps--I hope to-morrow. This is a sudden attack--you see--any excitement
may prolong it--it wouldn't be well to give a chance away. Don't you see that, Fairman?"

"Yes," said the minister, and from that moment made no further mention of his daughter during
breakfast. The meal was soon dispatched. Mr Fairman retired to his study--and the doctor prepared
for his departure. He promised to return in the afternoon.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed, as he took leave of me at the gate, "that Fairman remains so very
unsuspicious. This is not like him. I expected to find him more inquisitive."

"I am surprised," I answered; "but it is most desirable that he should continue so."

"Yes--yes--by all means--for the present at all events."

Throughout the day there was no improvement in the patient's symptoms. The physician came according
to his promise, and again at night. He slept at the parsonage for the second time. The minister
betrayed no wonder at this unusual act, showed no agitation, made no importunate enquiries.
He asked frequently during the day if any amendment had taken place; but always in a gentle
voice, and without any other reference to her illness. As often as the doctor came, he repeated
his wish to visit his dear child, but, receiving for answer "that he had better not at present,"
he retired to his study with a tremulous sigh, but offering no remonstrance.

The doctor went early to rest. He had no inclination to spend the evening with his friend,
whom he hardly cared to see until he could meet him as the messenger of good tidings. I had
resolved to hover, as I did before, near the mournful chamber in which she lay; and there I
kept a weary watch until my eyes refused to serve me longer, and I was forced against my will,
and for the sake of others, to yield my place and crawl to my repose. As I walked stealthily
through the house, and on tiptoe, fearful of disturbing one beloved inmate even by a breath--I
passed the incumbent's study. The door was open, and a glare of light broke from it, and stretched
across the passage. I hesitated for a moment--then listened--but, hearing nothing, pursued
my way. It was very strange. The clock had just before struck three, and the minister, it was
supposed, had been in bed since midnight. "His lamp is burning," thought I--"he has forgotten
it." I was on the point of entering the apartment--when I was deterred and startled by his
voice. My hand was already on the door, and I looked in. Before me, on his knees, with his
back towards me, was my revered friend--his hands clasped, and his head raised in supplication.
He was in his dress of day, and had evidently not yet visited his pillow. I waited, and he spoke--

"Not my will," he exclaimed in a piercing tone of prayer--"not mine, but thy kind will be done,
O Lord! If it be possible, let the bitter cup pass from me--but spare not, if thy glory must
needs be vindicated. Bring me to thy feet in meek, and humble, and believing confidence--all
is well, then, for time and for eternity. It is merciful and good to remove the idol that stands
between our love and God. Father of mercy--enable me to bring the truth home, home to this
most traitorous--this lukewarm, earthy heart of mine--a heart not worthy of thy care and help.
Let me not murmur at thy gracious will--oh, rather bend and bow to it--and kiss the rod that
punishes. I need chastisement--for I have loved too well--too fondly. I am a rebel, and thy
all-searching eye hath found me faithless in thy service. Take her, Father and Saviour--I will
resign her--I will bless the hand that smites me--I will"--he stopped; and big tears, such
as drop fearfully from manhood's eye, made known to heaven the agony that tears a parent's
heart, whilst piety is occupied in healing it.

It is not my purpose to recite the doubts and fears, the terrible suspense, the anxious hopes,
that filled the hours which passed whilst the condition of the patient remained critical. It
is a recital which the reader may well spare, and I avoid most gladly. At the end of a week,
the fever departed from the sufferer. The alarming symptoms disappeared, and confidence flowed
rapidly to the soul again. At this time the father paid his first visit to his child. He found
her weak and wasted; the violent applications which had been necessary for safety had robbed
her of all strength--had effected, in fact, a prostration of power, which she never recovered,
from which she never rallied. Mr Fairman was greatly shocked, and asked the physician for his
opinion now. The latter declined giving it until, as he expressed himself, "the effects of
the fever, and her attack, had left him a fair and open field for observation. There was a
slight cough upon her. It was impossible for the present to say, whether it was temporary and
dependent upon what had happened, or whether it resulted from actual mischief in her lung."

       *       *       *       *       *

A month has passed away since the physician spoke these words, and to doubt longer would be
to gaze upon the sun and to question its brightness. Mayhew has told the father his worst fears,
and bids him prepare like a Christian and a man for the loss of his earthly treasure. It was
he who watched the decay of her mother. The case is a similar one. He has no consolation to
offer. It must be sought at the throne of Him who giveth, and hath the right to take away.
The minister receives the intelligence with admirable fortitude. We are sitting together, and
the doctor has just spoken as becomes him, seriously and well. There is a spasm on the cheek
of the incumbent, whilst I sob loudly. The latter takes me by the hand, and speaks to the physician
in a low and hesitating tone.

"Mayhew," said he, "I thank you for this sincerity. I will endeavour to look the terror in
the face, as I have struggled to do for many days. It is hard--but through the mercy of Christ
it is not impracticable. Dear and oldest friend, unite your prayers with mine, for strength,
and holiness, and resignation. Cloud and agitation are at our feet. Heaven is above us. Let
us look there, and all is well."

We knelt. The minister prayed. He did not ask his Master to suspend his judgments. He implored
him to prepare the soul of the afflicted one for its early flight, and to subdue the hearts
of them all with his grace and holy spirit. Let him who doubts the efficacy of prayer seek
to clear his difficulty in the season of affliction, or when death sits grimly at the hearth--he
shall be satisfied.

If it were a consolation and a joy in the midst of our tribulation to behold the father chastened
by the heavy blow which had fallen so suddenly upon his age, how shall I express the ineffable
delight--yes, delight, amidst sorrow the most severe--with which I contemplated the beloved
maiden, upon whose tender years Providence had allowed to fall so great a trial. Fully sensible
of her position, and of the near approach of death, she was, so long as she could see her parent
and her lover without distress, patient, cheerful, and rejoicing. Yes, weaker and weaker as
she grew, happier and happier she became in the consciousness of her pure soul's increase.
Into her ear had been whispered, and before her eyes holy spirits had appeared with the mysterious
communication, which, hidden as it is from us, we find animating and sustaining feeble nature,
which else would sink, appalled and overwhelmed. There was not one of us who did not live a
witness to the truth of the heavenly promise, "as thy days, so shall thy strength be;" not
one amongst the dearest friends of the sufferer, who did not feel, in the height of his affliction,
that God would not cast upon his creatures a burden which a Christian might not bear. But to
her especially came the celestial declaration with power and might. An angel, sojourning for
a day upon the earth, and preparing for his homeward flight, could not have spread his ready
wing more joyfully, with livelier anticipation of his native bliss, than did the maiden look
for her recall and blest ascension to the skies. In her presence I had seldom any grief; it
was swallowed up and lost in gratitude for the victory which the dear one had achieved, in
virtue of her faith, over all the horrors of her situation. It was when alone that I saw, in
its reality and naked wretchedness, the visitation that I, more than any other, was doomed
to suffer. For days I could scarcely bring myself to the calm consideration of it. It seemed
unreal, impossible, a dream--any thing but what it was--the direst of worldly woes--the most
tremendous of human punishments.

I remember vividly a day passed in the chamber of the resigned creature, about two months after
the first indication of her illness. Her disease had increased rapidly, and the signs of its
ravages were painfully manifest in her sunken eye, her hectic cheek, her hollow voice, her
continual cough. Her spirit became more tranquil as her body retreated from the world--her
hopes more firm, her belief in the love of her Saviour--his will and power to save her, more
clear, and free from all perplexity. I had never beheld so beautiful a sight as the devoted
maid presented to my view. I had never supposed it possible to exist; and thus, as I sat at
her side, though the thought of death was ever present, it was as of a terror in a milkwhite
shroud--a monster enveloped and concealed beneath a robe of beauty. I listened to her with
enchantment whilst she spoke of the littleness of this world, and the boundless happiness that
awaited true believers in the next--of the unutterable mercy of God, in removing us from a
scene of trouble whilst our views were cloudless, and our hopes sure and abiding. Yes, charmed
by the unruffled air, the angelic look, I could forget even my mortality for a moment, and
feel my living soul in deep communion with a superior and brighter spirit. It was when she
recalled me to earth by a reminiscence of our first days of love, that the bruised heart was
made sensible of pain, and of its lonely widowed lot. Then the tears would not be checked,
but rushed passionately forth, and, as the clouds shut out and hid the one brief glimpse of
heaven, flowed unrestrained.

Her mind was in a sweet composed state during the interview to which I allude. She had pleasure
in referring to the days of her childhood, and in speaking of the happiness which she had found
amongst her native hills.

"How little, Caleb," she said, "is the mind occupied with thoughts of death in childhood--with
any thoughts of actual lasting evil! We cannot see these things in childhood--we cannot penetrate
so deeply or throw our gaze so far, we are so occupied with the joys that are round about us.
Is it not so? Our parents are ever with us. Day succeeds to day--one so like the other--and
our home becomes our world. A sorrow comes at length--a parent dies--the first and dearest
object in that world; then all is known, and the stability of life becomes suspected."

"The home of many," I replied, "is undisturbed for years!"

"Yes, and how sweet a thing is love of home! It is not acquired, I am sure. It is a feeling
that has its origin elsewhere. It is born with us; brought from another world, to carry us
on in this with joy. It attaches to the humblest heart that ever throbbed."

"Dear Ellen!" I exclaimed, "how little has sorrow to do with your affliction!"

"And why, dear Caleb? Have you never found that the difficulties of the broad day melt away
beneath the influences of the quiet lovely night? Have you never been perplexed in the bustle
and tumult of the day, and has not truth revealed itself when all was dark and still? This
is my night, and in sickness I have seen the eye of God upon me, and heard his words, as I
have never seen and heard before?"

It was in this manner that she would talk, not more disturbed, nay, not so much, as when in
happier times I never heard her speak of the troubles and anxieties of her poor villagers.
No complaint--no mournful accents escaped her lips. If at times the soaring spirit was repressed,
dejected, the living--the loved ones whom she must leave behind her had possession of her thoughts,
and loaded them with pain. Who would wait upon her father? Who would attend to all his little
wants? Who could understand his nature as she had learnt it--and who would live to comfort
and to cheer his days? These questions she has asked herself, whilst her only answers have
been her struggling tears.

The days were travelling fast; each one taking from the doomed girl--years of life. She dwindled
and wasted; and became at length less than a shadow of her former self. Why linger on the narrative?
Autumn arrived, and, with the general decay--she died. A few hours before her death she summoned
me to her bedside, and acquainted me with her fast-approaching dissolution. "It is the day,"
she said, speaking with difficulty--"I am sure of it. I have watched that branch for many days--look--it
is quite bare. Its last yellow leaf has fallen--I shall not survive it." I gazed upon her;
her eye was brighter than ever. It sparkled again, and most beautiful she looked. But death
was there--and her soul eager to give him all that he could claim!

"You are quite happy, dearest Ellen!" I exclaimed, weeping on her thin emaciated hand.

"Most happy, beloved. Do not grieve--be resigned--be joyful. I have a word to say. Nurse,"
she continued, calling to her attendant--"the drawing."

The nurse placed in her hand the sketch which she had taken of my favourite scene.

"Do you remember, love?" said she. "Keep it, for Ellen--you loved that spot--oh, so did I!--and
you will love it still. There is another sketch, you will find it by and by--afterwards--when
I am----It is in my desk. Keep that too, for Ellen, will you? It is the last drawing I have made."

I sat by and bit my lips to crush my grief, but I would not be silent whilst my heart as breaking.

"You should rejoice, dear," continued Ellen solemnly. "We did not expect this separation so
very soon; but it is better now than later. Be sure it is merciful and good. Prepare for this
hour, Caleb; and when it comes, you will be so calm, so ready to depart. How short is life!
Do not waste the precious hours. Read from St John, dearest--the eleventh chapter. It is all
sweetness and consolation."

The sun was dropping slowly into the west, leaving behind him a deep red glow that illuminated
the hills, and burnished the windows of the sick-chamber. The wind moaned, and, sweeping the
sere leaves at intervals, threatened a tempest. There was a solemn stillness in the parsonage,
around whose gate--weeping in silence, without heart to speak, or wish to make their sorrow
known--were collected a host of humble creatures--the poorest but sincerest friends of Ellen--the
villagers who had been her care. They waited and lingered for the heavy news, which they were
told must come to them this day; and prayed secretly--every one of them, old and young--for
mercy on the sufferer's soul! And she, whose gentle spirit is about to flit, lies peacefully,
and but half-conscious of the sounds that pass to heaven on her behalf. Her father, Mayhew,
and I, kneel round her bed, and the minister in supplicating tones, where nature does not interpose,
dedicates the virgin to His favour whose love she has applied so well. He ceases, for a whisper
has escaped her lips. We listen all. "Oh, this is peace!" she utters faintly, but most audibly,
and the scene is over.

"It is a dream," said the minister, when we parted for the night--I with the vain hope to forget
in sleep the circumstances of the day--the father to stray unwittingly into her former room,
and amongst the hundred objects connected with the happy memory of the departed.

The picture of which my Ellen had spoken, I obtained on the following day. It was a drawing
of the church and the burial-ground adjoining it. One grave was open. It represented that in
which her own mortal remains were deposited, amidst the unavailing lamentations of a mourning
village.

In three months the incumbent quitted Devonshire. The scenery had no pleasure for him, associated
as it was with all the sorrows of his life. His pupils returned to their homes. He had offered
to retain them, and to retain his incumbency for the sake of my advancement; but, whilst I
saw that every hour spent in the village brought with it new bitterness and grief, I was not
willing to call upon him for so great a sacrifice. Such a step, indeed, was rendered unnecessary
through the kind help of Dr Mayhew, to whom I owe my present situation, which I have held for
forty years with pleasure and contentment. Mr Fairman retired to a distant part of the kingdom,
where the condition of the people rendered the presence of an active minister of God a privilege
and a blessing. In the service of his Master, in the securing of the happiness of other men,
he strove for years to deaden the pain of his own crushed heart. And he succeeded--living to
bless the wisdom which had carried him through temptation; and dying, at last, to meet with
the reward conferred upon the man who, by patient continuance in well-doing, seeks for glory,
and honour, and immortality--ETERNAL LIFE.

The employment obtained for me by the kind interest of Dr Mayhew, which the return of so many
summers and winters has found me steadily prosecuting, was in the house of his brother--a gentleman
whose name is amongst the first in a profession adorned by a greater number of high-minded,
honourable men, than the world generally is willing to allow. Glad to avail myself of comparative
repose, an active occupation, and a certain livelihood, I did not hesitate to enter his office
in the humble capacity of clerk. I have lived to become the confidential secretary and faithful
friend of my respected principal.

As I have progressed noiselessly in the world, and rather as a spectator than an actor on the
broad stage of life, it has been no unprofitable task to trace the career of those with whom
I formed an intimacy during the bustle and excitement of my boyhood. Not many months after
my introduction into the mysteries of law, tidings reached my ears concerning Mr Clayton. He
had left his chapel suddenly. His avarice had led him deeper and deeper into guilt; speculation
followed speculation, until he found himself entangled in difficulties, from which, by lawful
means, he was unable to extricate himself. He forged the signature of a wealthy member of his
congregation, and thus added another knot to the complicated string of his delinquencies. He
was discovered. There was not a man aware of the circumstances of the case who was not satisfied
of his guilt; but a legal quibble saved him, and he was sent into the world again, branded
with the solemn reprimand of the judge who tried him for his life, and who bade him seek existence
honestly--compelled to labour, as he would be, in a humbler sphere of life than that in which
he had hitherto employed his undoubted talents. To those acquainted with the working of the
unhappy system of dissent, it will not be a matter of surprise that the result was not such
as the good judge anticipated. It so happened that, at the time of Mr Clayton's acquittal,
a dispute arose between the minister of his former congregation and certain influential members
of the same. The latter, headed by a fruiterer, a very turbulent and conceited personage, separated
from what they called the church, and set up another church in opposition. The meeting-house
was built, and the only question that remained to agitate the pious minds of the half-dozen
founders was--How to let the pews! Mr CLAYTON, more popular amongst his set than ever, was
invited to accept the duties of a pastor. He consented, and had the pews been trebled they
would not have satisfied one half the applications which, in one month, were showered on the
victorious schismatics. Here, for a few years, Mr Clayton continued; his character improved,
his fame more triumphant, his godliness more spiritual and pure than it had been even before
he committed the crime of forgery. His ruling passion, notwithstanding, kept firm hold of his
soul, and very soon betrayed him into the commission of new offences. He fled from London,
and I lost sight of him. At length I discovered that he was preaching in one of the northern
counties, and with greater success than ever--yes, such is the fallacy of the system--with
the approbation of men, and the idolatry of women, to whom the history of his career was as
familiar as their own. Again circumstances compelled him to decamp. I know not what these were,
nor could I ever learn; satisfied, however, that from his nature money must have been in close
connexion with them, I expected soon to hear of him again; and I did hear, but not for years.
The information that last of all I gained was, that he had sold his noble faculties undisguisedly
to the arch enemy of man. He had become the editor of one of the lowest newspaper of the metropolis,
notorious for its Radical politics and atheistical blasphemies.

Honest, faithful and unimpeachable John Thompson! Friend, husband, father--sound in every relation
of this life--thou noble-hearted Englishman! Let me not say thy race is yet extinct. No; in
spite of the change that has come over the spirit of our land--in spite of the rust that eats
into men's souls, eternally racked with thoughts of gain and traffic--in spite of the cursed
poison insidiously dropped beneath the cottage eaves, by reckless, needy demagogues, I trust
my native land, and still believe, that on her lap she cherishes whole bands of faithful children,
and firm patriots. Not amongst the least inducements to return to London was the advantage
of a residence near to that of my best friend and truest counsellor. I cannot number the days
which I have spent with him and his unequalled family--unequalled in their unanimity and love.
For years, no Sunday passed which did not find me at their hospitable board; a companion afterwards
in their country walks, and at the evening service of their parish church. The children were
men and women before it pleased Providence to remove their sire. How like his life was good
John Thompson's death! Full of years, but with his mental vision clear as in its dawn, aware
of his decline, he called his family about his bed, and to the weeping group spoke firmly and
most cheerfully.

"He had lived his time," he said, "and long enough to see his children doing well. There was
not one who caused him pain and fear--and that was more than every father of a family could
say--thank God for it! He didn't know that he had much to ask of any one of them. If they continued
to work hard, he left enough behind to buy them tools; and if they didn't, the little money
he had saved would be of very little use. There was their mother. He needn't tell 'em to be
kind to her, because their feelings wouldn't let them do no otherwise. As for advice, he'd
give it to them in his own plain way. First and foremost, he hoped they never would sew their
mouths up--never act in such a way as to make themselves ashamed of speaking like a man;" and
then he recommended strongly that they should touch no bills but such as they might cut wood
with. The worst that could befall 'em would be a cut upon the finger; and if they handled other
bills they'd cut their heads off in the end, be sure of it. "Alec," said he at last,--"you
fetch me bundle of good sticks. Get them from the workshop." Alec brought them, and the sire
continued,--"Now, just break one a-piece. There, that's right--now, try and break them altogether.
No, no, my boys, you can't do that, nor can the world break you so long as you hold fast and
well together. Disagree and separate, and nothing is more easy. If a year goes bad with one,
let the others see to make it up. Live united, do your duty, and leave the rest to heaven."
So Thompson spake; such was the legacy he left to those who knew from his good precept and
example how to profit by it. My friendship with his children has grown and ripened. They are
thriving men. Alec has inherited the nature of his father more than any other son. All go smoothly
on in life, paying little regard to the broils and contests of external life, but most attentive
to the in-door business. All, did I say?--I err. Exception must be made in favour of my excellent
good friend, Mr Robert Thompson. He has in him something of the spirit of his mother, and finds
fault where his brethren are most docile. Catholic emancipation he regarded with horror--the
Reform bill with indignation; and the onward movement of the present day he looks at with the
feelings of an individual waiting for an earthquake. He is sure that the world is going round
the other way, or is turned topsy-turvy, or is coming to an end. He is the quietest and best
disposed man in his parish--his moral character is without a flaw--his honesty without a blemish,
yet is his mind filled with designs which would astonish the strongest head that rebel ever
wore. He talks calmly of the propriety of hanging, without trial, all publishers of immorality
and sedition--of putting embryo rioters to death, and granting them a judicial examination
as soon as possible afterwards. Dissenting meeting-houses he would shut up instanter, and guard
with soldiers to prevent irregularity or disobedience. "Things," he says, "are twisted since
his father was a boy, and must be twisted back--by force--to their right place again. Ordinary
measures are less than useless for extraordinary times, and he only wishes he had power, or
was prime-minister for a day or two." But for this unfortunate monomania, the Queen has not
a better subject, London has not a worthier citizen than the plain spoken, simple-hearted Robert
Thompson.

In one of the most fashionable streets of London, and within a few doors of the residence of
royalty, is a stylish house, which always looks as if it were newly painted, furnished, and
decorated. The very imperfect knowledge which a passer-by may gain, denotes the existence of
great wealth within the clean and shining walls. Nine times out of ten shall you behold, standing
at the door, a splendid equipage--a britzka or barouche. The appointments are of the richest
kind--the servants' livery gaudiest of the gaudy--silvery are their buttons, and silver-gilt
the horses' harness. Stay, whilst the big door opens, and then mark the owner of the house
and britzka. A distinguished foreigner, you say, of forty, or thereabouts. He seems dressed
in livery himself; for all the colours of the rainbow are upon him. Gold chains across his
breast--how many you cannot count at once--intersect each other curiously; and on every finger
sparkles a precious jewel, or a host of jewels. Thick mustaches and a thicker beard adorn the
foreign face; but a certain air which it assumes, convinces you without delay that it is the
property of an unmitigated blackguard. Reader, you see the ready Ikey, whom we have met oftener
than once in this short history. Would you know more? Be satisfied to learn, that he exists
upon the follies and the vices of our high nobility. He has made good the promises of his childhood
and his youth. He rolls in riches, and is----a fashionable money-lender.

Dark were the shadows which fell upon my youth. The indulgent reader has not failed to note
them--with pain it may be--and yet, I trust, not without improvement. Yes, sad and gloomy has
been the picture, and light has gleamed but feebly there. It has been otherwise since I carried,
for my comfort and support, the memory of my beloved Ellen into the serious employment of my
later years. With the catastrophe of her decease, commenced another era of my existence--the
era of self-denial, patience, sobriety, and resignation. Her example dropped with silent power
into my soul, and wrought its preservation. Struck to the earth by the immediate blow, and
rising slowly from it, I did not mourn her loss as men are wont to grieve at the departure
of all they hold most dear. Think when I would of her, in the solemn watches of the night,
in the turmoil of the bustling day--a saint beatified, a spirit of purity and love--hovered
above me, smiling in its triumphant bliss, and whispering----peace. My lamentation was intercepted
by my joy. And so throughout have I been irritated by the small annoyances of the world, her
radiant countenance--as it looked sweetly even upon death--has risen to shame and silence my
complaint. Repining at my humble lot, her words--that estimated well the value, the nothingness
of life compared with life eternal--have spoken the effectual reproof. As we advance in years,
the old familiar faces gradually retreat and fade at length entirely. Forty long years have
passed, and on this bright spring morning the gentle Ellen steals upon the lawn, unaltered
by the lapse of time. Her slender arm is twined in mine, and her eye fills with innocent delight.
Not an hour of age is added to her face, although the century was not yet born when last I
gazed upon its meek and simple loveliness. She vanishes. Is it her voice that through the window
flows, borne on the bosom of the vernal wind? Angel of Light, I wait thy bidding to rejoin thee!

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL POLICY.

SPAIN.

The extraordinary breadth and boldness of the fiscal measures propounded and carried out at
once in the past year with vigour and promptitude no less extraordinary, wisely calculated
of themselves, as they may be, perhaps, and so far experience is assumed to have confirmed,
to exercise a salutary bearing upon the physical condition of the people, and to reanimate
the drooping energies of the country, can, however, receive the full, the just development
of all the large and beneficial consequences promised, only as commercial intercourse is extended,
as new marts are opened, and as hostile tariffs are mitigated or abated, by which former markets
have been comparatively closed against the products of British industry. The fiscal changes
already operated, may be said to have laid the foundation, and prepared the way, for this extension
and revival of our foreign commercial relations; but it remains alone for our commercial policy
to raise the superstructure and consummate the work, if the foundations be of such solidity
as we are assured on high authority they are. In the promotion of national prosperity, colonization
may prove a gradually efficient auxiliary; but as a remedy for present ills, its action must
evidently be too slow and restricted; and even though it should be impelled to a geometrical
ratio of progression, still would the prospect of effectual relief be discernible only through
a vista of years. Meanwhile, time presses, and the patient might perish if condemned alone
to the homoeopathic process of infinitesimal doses of relief.

The statesman who entered upon the Government with his scheme of policy, reflected and silently
matured as a whole, (as we may take for granted,) with principles determined, and his course
chalked out in a right line, was not, assuredly, tardy, whilst engaged with the work of fiscal
revision, in proceeding practically to the enlargement of the basis of the commercial system
of the empire. An advantageous treaty of commerce with the young but rising republic of Monte
Video, rewarded his first exertions, and is there to attest also the zealous co-operation of
his able and accomplished colleague, Lord Aberdeen. This treaty is not important only in reference
to the greater facilities and increase of trade, conceded with the provinces on the right bank
of the river Plate, and of the Uruguay and Parana, but inasmuch also as, in the possible failure
of the negotiations for the renewal of the commercial treaty with Brazil, now approaching its
term, it cannot fail to secure easy access for British wares in the territory of Rio Grande,
lying on the borders of the republic of the Uruguay, and far the most extensive, though not
the most populous, of Brazilian provinces; and this in despite of the Government of Brazil,
which does not, and cannot, possess the means for repressing its intercourse with Monte Video,
even though its possession and authority were as absolute and acknowledged in Rio Grande as
they are decidedly the reverse. The next, and the more difficult, achievement of Conservative
diplomacy resulted in the ratification of a supplementary commercial convention with Russia.
We say difficult, because the iron-bound exclusiveness and isolation of the commercial, as
well as of the political, system of St Petersburg, is sufficiently notorious; and it must have
required no small exercise of sagacity and address to overcome the known disinclination of
that Cabinet to any relaxation of the restrictive policy which, as the Autocrat lately observed
to a distinguished personage, "had been handed down to him from his ancestors, and was found
to work well for the interests of his empire." The peculiar merits of this treaty are as little
understood, however, as they have been unjustly depreciated in some quarters, and the obstacles
to the accomplishment overlooked. It will be sufficient to state, on the present occasion,
that notice had been given by the Russian Government, of the resolution to subject British
shipping, importing produce other than of British, or British colonial origin, to the payment
of differential or discriminating duties on entrance into Russian ports. The result of such
a measure would have been to put an entire stop to that branch of the carrying trade, which
consisted in supplying the Russian market with the produce of other European countries, and
of Brazil, Cuba, and elsewhere, direct in British bottoms. To avert this determination, representations
were not spared, and at length negotiations were consented to. But for some time they wore
but an unpromising appearance, were more than once suspended, if not broken off, and little,
if any, disposition was exhibited on the part of the Russian Government to listen to terms
of compromise. After upwards of twelvemonths' delay, hesitation, and diplomacy, the arrangement
was finally completed, which was laid before Parliament at the commencement of the session.
It may be accepted as conclusive evidence of the tact and skill of the British negotiators,
that, in return for waiving the alterations before alluded to, and leaving British shipping
entitled to the same privileges as before, it was agreed that the produce of Russian Poland,
shipped from Prussian ports in Russian vessels, should be admissible into the ports of Great
Britain on the same conditions of duty as if coming direct and loaded from Russian ports. As
the greater part of Russian Poland lies inland, and communicates with the sea only through
the Prussian ports, it was no more than just and reasonable that Russian Polish produce so
brought to the coast--to Dantzig, for example--should be admissible here in Russian bottoms
on the same footing as if from a Russian port. To this country it could be a matter of slight
import whether such portion of the produce so shipped in Prussian ports as was carried in foreign,
and not in British bottoms, came in Russian vessels or in those of Prussia, as before. To Russia,
however, the boon was clearly of considerable interest, and valued accordingly. In the mean
time, British shipping retains its former position, in respect of the carriage of foreign produce;
and, however hostile Russian tariffs may be to British manufactured products--as hostile to
the last degree they are, as well as against the manufactured wares of all other States--it
is undeniable that our commercial marine enjoys a large proportion of the carrying trade with
Russia--almost a monopoly, in fact, of the carrying trade between the two countries direct.
Of 1147 foreign ships which sailed with cargoes during the year 1842 from the port of Cronstadt,
515 were British, with destination direct to the ports of the United Kingdom, whilst only forty-one
foreign or Russian vessels were loaded and left during that year for British ports. Of 525
British vessels, of the aggregate burden of nearly 118,000 tons, which anchored in the roadstead
of Cronstadt in that year, 472 were direct from the United Kingdom, and fifty-three from various
other countries, such as the two Sicilies, Spain, Cuba, South America, &c. The number of British
vessels which entered the port of St Petersburg, as Cronstadt in fact is, was more considerable
still in 1840 and 1841--having been in the first year, 662, of the aggregate burden of 146,682
tons; in the latter, of 645 ships and 146,415 tons. Of the total average number of vessels
by which the foreign trade of that empire is carried on, and load and leave the ports of Russia
yearly, which, in round numbers, may be taken at about 6000, of an aggregate tonnage of 1,000,000--ships
sailing on ballast not comprehended--the average number of ships under the Russian flag, comprised
in the estimate, does not much, if any, exceed 1000, of the aggregate burden of 150 or 160,000
tons. This digression, though it has led us further astray from our main object than we had
contemplated, will not be without its uses, if it serve to correct some exaggerated notions
which prevail about the comparative valuelessness of our commerce with Russia, because of its
assumed entire one-sidedness--losing sight altogether of its vast consequence to the shipping
interest; and of the freightage, which is as much an article of commerce and profit as cottons
and woollens; oblivious, moreover, of the great political question involved in the maintenance
and aggrandisement of that shipping interest, which must be taken to account by the statesman
and the patriot as redressing to no inconsiderable extent the adverse action of unfriendly
tariffs. It is only after careful ponderance of these and other combined considerations, that
the value of any trading relations with Russia can be clearly understood, and that the importance
of the supplementary treaty of navigation recently carried through, with success proportioned
to the remarkable ability and perseverance displayed, can be duly appreciated. It is, undoubtedly,
the special economical event of the day, upon which the commercial, and scarcely less the political,
diplomacy of the Government may be most justly complimented for its mastery of prejudices and
impediments, which, under the circumstances, and in view of the peculiar system to be combated,
appeared almost insurmountable. Common honesty and candour must compel this acknowledgment,
even from men so desperate in their antipathies to the political system of Russia, as Mr Urquhart
or Mr Cargill--antipathies, by the way, with which we shall not hesitate to express a certain
measure of participation.

We shall not dwell upon those other negotiations, now and for some time past in active progress
with France, with Brazil, with Naples, with Austria, and with Portugal, by which Sir Robert
Peel is so zealously labouring to fill up the broad outlines of his economical policy--a policy
which represents the restoration of peace to the nation, progress to industry, and plenty to
the cottage; but which also otherwise is not without its dangers. Amidst the whirlwind of passions,
the storm of hatred and envy, conjured by the evil genius of his predecessors in office, and
most notably by the malignant star which lately ruled over the foreign destinies of England,
the task has necessarily been, yet is, and will be, Herculean; but the force of Hercules is
there also, as may be hoped, to wrestle with and overthrow the hydra--the Æolus to recall and
encage the tempestuous elements of strife. A host in himself, hosts also the premier has with
him in his cabinet; for such singly are the illustrious Wellington, the Aberdeen, the Stanley,
the Graham, the Ripon, and, though last, though youngest, scarcely least, the Gladstone.

Great as is our admiration, deeply impressed as we are with a sense of the extraordinary qualifications,
of the varied acquirements, of the conscientious convictions, and the singleness and rightmindedness
of purpose of the right honourable the vice-president of the Board of Trade, we must yet presume
to hesitate before we give an implicit adherence upon all the points in the confession of economical
faith expressed and implied in an article attributed to him, and not without cause, which ushered
into public notice the first number of a new quarterly periodical, "The Foreign and Colonial
Quarterly Review," in January last, and was generally accepted as a programme of ministerial
faith and action. Our points of dissonance are, however, few; but, as involving questions of
principle, whilst we are generally at one on matters of detail, we hold them to be of some
importance. This, however, is not the occasion proper for urging them, when engaged on a special
theme. But on a question of fact, which has a bearing upon the subject in hand, we may be allowed
to express our decided dissent from the dictum somewhat arbitrarily launched, in the article
referred to, in the following terms:--"We shall urge that foreign countries neither have combined,
nor ought to combine, nor can combine, against the commerce of Great Britain; and we shall
treat as a calumny the imputation that they are disposed to enter into such a combination."
The italics, it must be observed, are ours.

We have at this moment evidence lying on our table sufficiently explanatory and decisive to
our minds that such a spirit of combination is abroad against British commercial interests.
We might indeed appeal to events of historical publicity, which would seem confirmatory of
a tacitly understood combination, from the simultaneity of action apparent. We have, for example,
France reducing the duties on Belgian iron, coal, linen, yarn, and cloths, whilst she raises
those on similar British products; the German Customs' League imposing higher and prohibitory
duties on British fabrics of mixed materials, such as wool, cotton, silk, &c.; puny Portugal
interdicting woollens by exorbitant rates of impost, and scarcely tolerating the admission
of cotton manufactures; the United States, with sweeping action, passing a whole tariff of
prohibitory imposts; and, in several of these instances, this war of restrictions against British
industry commenced, or immediately followed upon, those remarkable changes and reductions in
the tariff of this country which signalized the very opening of Sir Robert Peel's administration.
Conceding, however, this seeming concert of action to be merely fortuitous, what will the vice-president
of the Board of Trade say to the long-laboured, but still unconsummated customs' union between
France and Belgium? Was that in the nature of a combination against British commercial interests,
or was it the reverse? It is no cabinet secret--it has been publicly proclaimed, both by the
French and Belgian Governments and press, that the indispensable basis, the sine qua non of
that union, must be, not a calculated amalgamation of, not a compromise between the differing
and inconsistent tariffs of Belgium and France, but the adoption, the imposition, of the tariff
of France for both countries in all its integrity, saving in some exceptional cases of very
slight importance, in deference to municipal dues and octrois in Belgium. When, after previous
parley and cajoleries at Brussels, commissioners were at length procured to be appointed by
the French ministry, and proceeded to meet and discuss the conditions of the long-cherished
project of the union, with the officials deputed on the part of France to assist in the conference,
it is well known that the final cause of rupture was the dogged persistance of the French members
of the joint commission in urging the tariff of France, in all its nakedness of prohibition,
deformity, and fiscal rigour, as the one sole and exclusive régime for the union debated, without
modification or mitigation. On this ground alone the Belgian deputies withdrew from their mission.
How this result, this check, temporary only as it may prove, chagrined the Government, if not
the people, and the mining and manufacturing interests of France, may be understood by the
simple citation of a few short but pithy sentences from the Journal des Débats, certainly the
most influential, as it is the most ably conducted, of Parisian journals:--"Le 'ZOLLVEREIN,'"
observes the Débats, "a prodigieusement rehaussé la Prusse; l'union douanière avec la Belgique
aurait, à un degré moindre cependant, le même résultat pour nous.... Nous sommes, donc, les
partisans de cette union, ses partisans prononcés, à deux conditions: la première, c'est qu'il
ne faille pas payer ces beaux résultats par le bouleversement de l'industrie rationale; la
seconde, c'est que la Belgique en accepte sincèrement es charges en même temps qu'elle en recuiellera
les profits, et qu'en consequence elle se prête à tout ce qui sera nécessaire pour mettre NOTRE
INDUSTRIE A L'ABRI DE L'INVASION DES PRODUITS ETRANGERS, et pour que les intérêts de notre
Trésor soient à couvert." This is plain speaking; the Government journal of France worthily
disdains to practise mystery or attempt deception, for its mission is to contend for the interests,
one-sided, exclusive, and egoistical, as they may be, and establish the supremacy of France--quand
même; at whatever resulting prejudice to Belgium--at whatever total exclusion of Great Britain
from commercial intercourse with, and commercial transit through Belgium, must inevitably flow
from a customs' union, the absolute preliminary condition of which is to be, that Belgium "shall
be ready to do every thing necessary to place our commerce beyond the reach of invasion by
foreign products." Mr Gladstone may rest assured that the achievement of this Franco-Belgiac
customs' union will still be pursued with all the indomitable perseverance, the exhaustless
and ingenious devices, the little-scrupulous recources, for which the policy of the Tuileries
in times present does not belie the transmitted traditions of the past. And it will be achieved,
to the signal detriment of British interests, both commercial and political, unless all the
energies and watchfulness of the distinguished statesmen who preside at the Foreign Office
and the Board of Trade be not unceasingly on the alert.

Other and unmistakeable signs of the spirit of commercial combination, or confederation, abroad,
and more or less explicitly avowed and directed against this country, are, and have been for
some time past, only too patent, day by day, in most of those continental journals, the journals
of confederated Germany, of France, with some of those of Spain and of Portugal, which exercise
the largest measure of influence upon, and represent with most authority the voice of, public
opinion. Nor are such demonstrations confined to journalism. Collaborateurs, in serial or monthly
publications, are found as earnest auxiliaries in the same cause--as redacteurs and redactores;
pamphleteers, like light irregulars, lead the skirmish in front, whilst the main battle is
brought up with the heavy artillery of tome and works voluminous. Of these, as of brochures,
filletas, and journals, we have various specimens now on our library table. All manner of customs,
or commercial unions, between states are projected, proposed, and discussed, but from each
and all of these proposed unions Great Britain is studiously isolated and excluded. We have
the "Austrian union" planned out and advocated, comprising, with the hereditary states of that
empire, Moldavia, Wallachia, Bulgaria, Servia, Bosnia, as well as those provinces of ancient
Greece, which, like Macedonia, remain subject to Turkey, with, perhaps, the modern kingdom
of Greece. We have the "Italian union," to be composed of Sardinia, Lombardy, Lucca, Parma,
and Modena, Tuscany, the two Sicilies, and the Papal States. There is the "Peninsular union"
of Spain and Portugal. Then we have one "French union" sketched out, modestly projected for
France, Belgium, Switzerland, and Savoy only. And we have another of more ambitious aspirations,
which should unite Belgium, Switzerland, and Spain under the commercial standard of France.
One of the works treating of projects of this kind was, we believe, crowned with a prize by
some learned institution in France.

With these preliminary remarks, we now proceed to the consideration of the commercial relations
between Spain and Great Britain, and of the policy in the interest of both countries, but transcendently
in that of Spain, by which those relations, now reposing on the narrowest basis, at least on
the one side, on that of Spain herself, may be beneficially improved and enlarged. It may be
safely asserted, that there are no two nations in the old world--nay more, no two nations in
either, or both, the old world and the new--more desirably situated and circumstanced for an
intimate union of industrial interests, for so direct and perfect an interchange of their respective
products. The interchange would, indeed, under a wise combination of reciprocal dealing, resolve
itself purely almost into the primitive system of barter; for the wants of Spain are such as
can be best, sometimes only, supplied from England, whilst Spain is rich in products which
ensure a large, sometimes an exclusive, command of British consumption. Spain is eminently
agricultural, pastoral, and mining; Great Britain more eminently ascendant still in the arts
and science of manufacture and commerce. With a diversity of soil and climate, in which almost
spontaneously flourish the chief productions of the tropical as of the temperate zone; with
mineral riches which may compete with, nay, which greatly surpass in their variety, and might,
if well cultivated, in their value, those of the Americas which she has lost; with a territory
vast and virgin in proportion to the population; with a sea-board extensively ranging along
two of the great high-ways of nations--the Atlantic and the Mediterranean--and abundantly endowed
with noble and capacious harbours; there is no conceivable limit to the boundless production
and creation of exchangeable wealth, of which, with her immense natural resources, still so
inadequately explored, Spain is susceptible, that can be imagined, save from that deficient
supply of labour as compared with the territorial expanse which would gradually come to be
redressed as industry was promoted, the field of employment extended, and labour remunerated.
With an estimated area of 182,758 square miles, the population of Spain does not exceed, probably,
thirteen millions and a half of souls, whilst Great Britain and Ireland, with an area of 115,702
square miles, support a population of double the number. Production, however, squares still
less with territorial extent than does population; for the stimulus to capital and industry
is wanting when the facilities of exchanges are checked by fiscal prohibitions and restrictions.
Agricultural produce, the growth of the vine and the olive, is not unfrequently known to run
to waste, to be abandoned, as not worth the toil of gathering and preparation, because markets
are closed and consumption checked in countries from which exchangeable commodities are prohibited.
The extent of these prohibitions and restrictions, almost unparalleled even by the arbitrary
tariff of Russia, may be estimated in part by the following extract from a pamphlet, published
last year by Mr James Henderson, formerly consul-general to the Republic of New Granada, entitled
"A Review of the Commercial Code and Tariffs of Spain;" a writer, by the way, guilty of much
exaggeration of fact and opinion when not quoting from, or supported by, official documents.

    "The 'Aranceles,' or Tariffs, are four in number; 1st, of
    foreign importations; 2d, of importations from America; 3d,
    from Asia; and, 4th, of exportations from Spain.

    "The Tariff of foreign importations contains 1326 articles
    alphabetically arranged:--

        800 to pay a duty of 15 per cent in Spanish vessels,
        230    "     "       20  "
         80    "     "       25  "
         55    "     "       10  "
         26    "     "       30  "
          3    "     "       36  "
          2    "     "       24  "
          2    "     "       45  "
        about 50 from 1 to 8 per cent, and the rest free of duty.

    "The preceding articles imported in foreign vessels are subject
    to an increased duty, at the following rates:--

        1150 articles at the rate of 1/8 more,
          80      "           "      1/4 more,
          10      "           "      1/2 more.

    "There is, besides, a duty of 'consumo,' principally at the
    rate of 1/8 of the respective duties, and in some very few
    cases at the rate of 1/4 and 1/2.

    "Thus the duty of 15 per cent levied, if the importation is by
    a Spanish vessel, will be increased by the 'consumo' to 20 per
    cent. And the duty of 20 per cent on the same articles, in
    foreign vessels, will be augmented to 27 per cent.

    "The duty of 20 per cent will be about 27 in Spanish vessels,
    and in foreign vessels, on the same articles, 36 per cent. The
    duty of 25 per cent, will in the whole be 33 per cent by
    Spanish, and by foreign vessels 44 per cent.

    "The duty on articles, amounting to seventy-three, imported
    from America, vary from 1 to 15 per cent, with double the duty
    if in foreign vessels.

    "The articles of importation from Asia are--sixty-nine from the
    Phillipines at 1 to 5 per cent duty, and thirty-six from China
    at 5 to 25 per cent duty, and can only be imported in Spanish
    ships.

    "The articles of export are fourteen, with duties at 1 to 80
    per cent, with one-third increase if by foreign vessels.

    "There are eighty-six articles of importation prohibited,
    amongst which are wrought iron, tobacco, spirits, quicksilver,
    ready-made clothing, corn, salt, hats, soap, wax, wools,
    leather, vessels under 400 tons, &c. &c. &c.

    "There are eleven articles of exportation prohibited, amongst
    which are hides, skins, and timber for naval purposes."

Such a tariff contrasts strangely with that of this country, in which 10 per cent is the basis
of duty adopted for importations of foreign manufactures, and 5 per cent for foreign raw products.

Can we wonder that, with such a tariff, legitimate imports are of so small account, and that
the smuggler intervenes to redress the enormously disproportionate balance, and administer
to the wants of the community? Can we wonder that the powers of native production should be
so bound down, and territorial revenue so comparatively diminutive, when exchanges are so hampered
by fiscal and protective rapacity? Canga Arguelles, the first Spanish financier and statistician
of his day, calculated the territorial revenue of Spain at 8,572,220,592 reals, say, in sterling,
L.85,722,200; whilst he asserts, with better cultivation, population the same, the soil is
capable of returning ten times the value. As a considerable proportion of the revenue of Spain
is derived from the taxation of land, the prejudice resulting to the treasury is alone a subject
of most important consideration. For the proprietary, and, in the national point of view, as
affecting the well-being of the masses, it is of far deeper import still. And what is the financial
condition of Spain, that her vast resources should be apparently so idle, sported with, or
cramped? Take the estimates, the budget, presented by the minister De ca Hacienda, for the
past year of 1842:--

Revenue 1842,          879,193,400 reals
Id. expenditure,     1,541,639,800  id.
                     -------------
Deficit on the year,   662,446,400

Thus, with a revenue of L.8,791,934, an expenditure of L.15,416,398, and a deficit of L.6,624,460,
the debt of Spain, foreign and domestic, is almost an unfathomable mystery as to its real amount.
Even at this present moment, it cannot be said to be determined; for that amount varies with
every successive minister who ventures to approach the question. Multifarious have been the
attempts to arrive at a clear liquidation--that is, classification and ascertainment of claims;
but hitherto with no better success than to find the sum swelling under the labour, notwithstanding
national and church properties confiscated, appropriated, and exchanged away against titulos
of debt by millions. It is variously estimated at from 120 to 200 millions sterling, but say
150 millions, under the different heads of debt active, passive, and deferred; debt bearing
interest, debt without interest, and debt exchangeable in part--that is, payable in certain
fixed proportions, for the purchase of national and church properties. For a partial approximation
to relative quantities, we must refer the reader, for want of better authority, to Fenn's "Compendium
of the English and Foreign Funds"--a work containing much valuable information, although not
altogether drawn from the best sources.

In the revenues of Spain, the customs enter for about 70,000,000 of reals, say L.700,000 only,
including duties on exports as well as imports. Now, assuming the contraband imports to amount
only to the value of L.6,000,000, a moderate estimate, seeing that some writers, Mr Henderson
among the number, rashly calculate the contraband imports alone at eight, and even as high
as ten, millions sterling, it should follow that, at an average rate of duty of twenty per
cent, the customs should yield additionally L.1,200,000, or nearly double the amount now received
under that head. As, through the cessation of the civil war, a considerable portion of the
war expenditure will be, and is being reduced, the additional L.1,200,000 gained, by an equitable
adjustment of the tariff, on imports alone, perhaps we should be justified in saying one million
and a half, or not far short of two millions sterling, import and export duties combined, would
go far to remedy the desperation of Spanish financial embarrassments--the perfect solution
and clearance of which, however, must be, under the most favourable circumstances, an affair
of many years. It is not readily or speedily that the prodigalities of Toreno, or the unscrupulous,
but more patriotic financial impostures of Mendizabal, can be retrieved, and the national faith
redeemed. The case is, to appearance, one past relief; but, with honest and incorruptible ministers
of finance like Ramon Calatrava, hope still lingers in the long perspective. With an enlightened
commercial policy on the one hand, with the retrenchment of a war expenditure on the other,
the balance between receipts and expenditure may come to be struck, an excess of revenue perhaps
created; whilst the sales of national domains against titulos of debt, if managed with integrity,
should make way towards its gradual diminution.

As there is much misapprehension, and many exaggerations, afloat respecting the special participation
of Great Britain in the contraband trade of Spain, its extraordinary amount, and the interest
assumed therefrom which would result exclusively from, and therefore induces the urgency for,
an equitable reform of the tariff of Spain, we shall briefly take occasion to show the real
extent of the British share in that illicit trade, so far as under the principal heads charged;
and having exhibited that part of the case in its true, or approximately true, light, we shall
also prove that it is, as it should be, the primary interest of this country to regain its
due proportion in the regular trade with Spain, and which can only be regained by legitimate
intercourse, founded on a reciprocal, and therefore identical, combination of interests. In
this strife of facts we shall have to contend against Señor Marliani, and others of the best
and most steadfast advocates of a more enlightened policy, of sympathies entirely and patriotically
favourable towards a policy which shall cement and interweave indissolubly the material interests
and prosperity of Spain and Great Britain--of two realms which possess each those products
and peculiar advantages in which the other is wanting, and therefore stand seized of the special
elements required for the successful progress of each other. Our contest will, however, be
one of friendly character, our differences will be of facts, but not of principles. But we
hold it to be of importance to re-establish facts, as far as possible, in all their correctness;
or rather, to reclaim them from the domain of vague conjecture and speculation in which they
have been involved and lost sight of. The task will not be without its difficulties; for the
position and precise data are wanting on which to found, with even a reasonable approximation
to mathematical accuracy, a comprehensive estimate, to resolve into shape the various and complex
elements of Spanish industry and commerce, legitimate and contraband. Statistical science--for
which Spain achieved an honourable renown in the last century, and may cite with pride her
Varela, Musquiz, Gabarrus, Ulloa, Jovellanos, &c., was little cultivated or encouraged in that
decay of the Spanish monarchy which commenced with the reign of the idiotic Carlos IV., and
his venal minister Godoy, and in the wars and revolutions which followed the accession, and
ended not with the death of Fernando his son, the late monarch--was almost lost sight of; though
Canga Arguelles, lately deceased only, might compete with the most erudite economist, here
or elsewhere, of his day. Therefore it is, that few are the statistical documents or returns
existing in Spain which throw any clear light upon the progress of industry, or the extent
and details of her foreign commerce. Latterly, indeed, the Government has manifested a commendable
solicitude to repair this unfortunate defect of administrative detail, and has commenced with
the periodical collection and verification of returns and information from the various ports,
which may serve as the basis--and indispensable for that end they must be--on which to reform
the errors of the present, or raise the superstructure of a new, fiscal and commercial system.
Notwithstanding, however, the difficulties we are thus exposed to from the lack or incompleteness
of official data on the side of Spain, we hope to present a body of useful information illustrative
of her commerce, industry, and policy; in especial, we hope to dispel certain grave misconceptions,
to redress signal exaggeration about the extent of the contraband trade, rankly as it flourishes,
carried on along the coasts, and more largely still, perhaps, by the land frontiers of that
country, at least so far as British participation. Various have been the attempts to establish
correct conclusions, to arrive at some fixed notions of the precise quantities of that illicit
traffic; but hitherto the results generally have been far from successful, except in one instance.
In a series of articles on the commerce of Spain, published under the head of "Money Market
and City Intelligence," in the months of December and January last, the Morning Herald was
the first to observe and to apply the data in existence by which such an enquiry could be carried
out, and which we purpose here to follow out on a larger scale, and with materials probably
more abundant and of more recent date.

The whole subject of Spanish commerce is one of peculiar interest, and, through the more rigorous
regulations recently adopted against smuggling, is at this moment exciting marked attention
in France, which, it will be found with some surprise, is far the largest smuggler of prohibited
commodities into Spain, although the smallest consumer of Spanish products in return. It is
in no trifling degree owing to the jealous and exclusive views which unhappily prevail with
our nearest neighbour across the Channel, that the prohibitory tariff, scarcely more adverse
to commercial intercourse than that of France after all, which robs the revenue of Spain, whilst
it covers the country with hosts of smugglers, has not sooner been revised and reformed. France
is not willing to enter into a confederacy of interests with Spain herself, nor to permit other
nations, on any fair equality of conditions, and with the abandonment of those unjust pretensions
to special privileges in her own behalf, which, still tenaciously clinging to Bourbonic traditions
of by-gone times, would affect to annihilate the Pyrenees, and regard Spain as a dependent
possession, reserved for the exclusive profit and the commercial and political aggrandisement
of France. That these exaggerated pretensions are still entertained as an article of national
faith, from the sovereign on his throne to the meanest of his subjects, we have before us,
at this moment of writing, conclusive evidence in the report of M. Chégaray, read in the Chamber
of Deputies on the 11th of April last, (vide Moniteur of the 12th,) drawn up by a commission,
to whom was referred the consideration of the actual commercial relations of France with Spain--provoked
by various petitions of the merchants of Bayonne, and other places, complaining of the prejudice
resulting to their commerce and shipping from certain alterations in the Spanish customs' laws,
decreed by the Regent in 1841. We may have occasion hereafter to make further reference to
this report.

The population of Spain may be rated in round numbers at thirteen millions and a half, whilst
that of the United Kingdom may be taken at about double the number. With a wise policy, therefore,
the interchange should be of an active and most extensive nature betwixt two countries, reckoning
together more than forty millions of inhabitants, one of which, with a superficial breadth
of territory out of all proportion with a comparatively thinly-scattered community, abounding
with raw products and natural riches of almost spontaneous growth; whilst the other, as densely
peopled, on the contrary, in comparison with its territorial limits, is stored with all the
elements, and surpasses in all the arts and productions of manufacturing industry. Unlike France,
Great Britain does not rival Spain in wines, oils, fruits, and other indigenous products of
southern skies, and therefore is the more free to act upon the equitable principle of fair
exchange in values for values. Great Britain has a market among twenty-seven millions of an
active and intelligent people, abounding in wealth and advanced in the tastes of luxurious
living, to offer against one presenting little more than half the range of possible customers.
She has more; she has the markets of the millions of her West Indies and Americas--of the tens
of millions of British India, amongst whom a desire for the various fruits and delicious wines
of Spain might gradually become diffused for a thousand of varieties of wines which, through
the pressure of restrictive duties, are little if at all known to European consumption beyond
the boundaries of Spain herself. With such vast fields of commercial intercourse open on the
one side and the other, with the bands of mutual material interests combining so happily to
bind two nations together which can have no political causes of distrust and estrangement,
it is really marvellous that the direct relations should be of so small account, and so hampered
by jealous adherence to the strict letter of an absurd legislation, as in consequence to be
diverted from their natural course into other and objectionable channels--as the waters of
the river artificially dammed up will overflow its banks, and, regaining their level, speed
on by other pathways to the ocean. We shall briefly exemplify the force of these truths by
the citation of official figures representing the actual state of the trade between Spain and
the United Kingdom antecedent to and concluding with the year 1840, which is the last year
for which in detail the returns have yet issued from the Board of Trade. That term, however,
would otherwise be preferentially selected, because affording facilities for comparison with
similar but partial returns only of foreign commerce made up in Spain to the same period, little
known in this country, and with the French customhouse returns of the trade of France with
Spain. It must be premised that the tables of the Board of Trade in respect of import trade,
as well as of foreign and colonial re-exports, state quantities only, but not values; nor do
they present any criteria by which values approximately might be determined. Where, therefore,
such values are attempted to be arrived at, it will be understood that the calculations are
our own, and pretend no more--for no more could be achieved--than a rough estimate of probable
approximation.

Total declared value of British and Irish produce and manufactures exported to Spain and the
Balearic Isles in--

1840, amounted to L.404,252 1835,               405,065 1831,               597,848

From the first to the last year of the decennial term, the regular trade, therefore, had declined
to the extent of above L.193,000, or at the rate of about 33 per cent. But as for three of
the intermediate years 1837, 1838, and 1839, the exports are returned at L.286,636, L.243,839,
and L.262,231, exclusive of fluctuations downwards in previous years, it will be more satisfactory
to take the averages for five years each, of the term. Thus from--

1831 to 1835, both inclusive, the average was L.442,916 1836 to 1840,                     
320,007

The average decline in the latter term, was therefore above 27-1/2 per cent.

Of the Foreign and Colonial merchandise re-exported within the same period it is difficult
to say what proportion was for British account, and, as such, should therefore be classed under
the head of trade with Spain. It may be assumed, however, that the following were the products
of British colonial possessions, whose exports to Spain are thus stated in quantities:--

                     1831.       1835.       1840.
Cinnamon,          284,201     123,590     144,291  lbs.
Cloves,             15,831       9,470      23,504  ...
India Cottons,      38,969       3,267      10,067  pieces
India Bandannas,    17,386      11,864      16,049  ...
Indigo,             16,641       5,231       8,623  lbs.
Pepper,            227,305      69,365     194,254  ...

To which may be added--

Tobacco,            64,851   2,252,356   1,729,552  ...

The tobacco, being of United States' growth, may, to a considerable extent, be bonded here
for re-exportation on foreign account merely. The foregoing, though the heaviest, are not the
whole of the foreign and colonial products re-exported for Spain, but they constitute the great
bulk of value. Taking those of the last year, their value may be approximatively estimated
in round numbers, as calculated upon what may be assumed a fair average of the rates of the
prices current in the market, as they appear quoted in the London Mercantile Journal of the
4th of April. It is only necessary to take the more weighty articles.

Cinnamon,            144,290  lbs.  at 5s. 6d.  L.39,679 Indigo,                8,620   --
at 6s.         2,586 Pepper,              194,250   --   at     4d.     3,232 Tobacco,    
1,729,550   --   at     4d.    28,825 Indian Bandannas,     16,049 pieces at 25s.       20,061

It may, we conceive, be assumed from these citations of some few of the larger values exported
to Spain under the head of "Foreign and Colonial Merchandise," that the total amount of such
values, inclusive of all the commodities non-enumerated here, would not exceed L.150,000, which,
added to the L.404,252 already stated as the "declared values" of "British and Irish produce"
also exported, would give a total export for 1840 of L.554,250.

We come now to the imports from Spain and the Balearic Isles, direct also into the United Kingdom,
as stated in the Board of Trade tables in quantities; selecting the chief articles only, however:--

                         1831.      1835.      1840.
Barilla,                61,921     64,175     36,585 cwts.
Lemons and Oranges,     28,266     30,548     30,171 packages.
Madder,                  1,569      3,418      6,174 cwts.
Olive Oil,           1,243,686      1,793  1,305,384 galls.
Quicksilver,           269,558  1,438,869  2,157,823 lbs.
Raisins,               105,066    104,334    166,505 cwts.
Brandy,                 69,319     15,880    223,268 galls.
Wines,               2,537,968  2,641,547  3,945,161 galls.
Wool,                3,474,823  1,602,752  1,266,905 lbs.

Applying the same plan of calculation upon an average of the prices ruling in the London market,
we arrive at the following approximate results:--

Barilla, 36,585 cwts. at 10s. per cwt.                  L.18,292
Lemons and oranges, 30,170 packages, at 30s. per packet,  45,255
Madder, 6174 cwts. at 30s per cwt.                         9,261
Olive oil, 1,305,384 gallons, at L.45 per 252 gallons    233,100
Quicksilver, 2,157,823 lbs., at 4s. per lb.,             431,564
Raisins, 166,505 cwts., at 40s. per cwt.                 333,000
Brandy, 223,268 gallons, at 2s. 6d. per gallon,           27,900
Wines, 3,945,160, gallons, at L.20 per butt,             730,580
Wool, 1,266,900 lbs., at 2s. per lb.,                    126,690
                                                       ---------
                                                     L.1,965,642

The value of the other articles of import from Spain,
which need not be enumerated here, amongst which
corn, skins, pig-lead, bark for tanning, &c., would
certainly swell this amount more by                      200,000
                                                       ---------
Total direct imports from Spain,                     L.2,165,642

On several of the foregoing commodities the average rates of price on which they are calculated
may be esteemed as moderate, such as wines, brandies, raisins, &c.; and several are exclusive
of duty charge, as where the averages are estimated at the prices in bond. In other commodities
the average rates are inclusive of duty. Wines, brandies, quicksilver, barilla, are exclusive
of duty, for example; the others, duty paid, but in some instances duties scarcely more than
nominal. On the other hand, it must be taken into the account, for the purpose of a fair comparison,
that these average estimates of the prices of imported merchandise do include and are enhanced
by the expense of freights and the profits of the importer, and therefore all the difference
must be in excess of the cost price at which shipped, and by which estimated in Spain. The
"declared values" of British exports to Spain embrace but a small proportion, perhaps, of these
shipping charges, and are altogether irrespective of duties levied on arrival in Spanish ports.
As not only a fair, but probably an outside allowance, let us, therefore, redress the balance
by striking off 20 per cent from the total estimated values of imports from Spain to cover
shipping charges, profits, and port-dues, whether included in prices or not. The account will
then stand thus:--

Estimated imports from Spain in round numbers        L.2,165,000
Deduct 20 per cent,                                      433,000
                                                     -----------
Value of imports shipped,                            L.1,732,000
Deduct declared value of British exports to Spain,       554,000
                                                     -----------
Excess of Spanish imports direct on equalized
estimates of values,                                 L.1,178,000

The acceptation is so common, it has been so long received as a truism unquestionable as unquestioned,
as well in Spain as in Great Britain, of British commerce being one-sided, and carrying a large
yearly balance against the Peninsular state, that these figures of relative and approximate
quantities can hardly fail to excite a degree of astonishment and of doubt also. It will be,
as it ought to be, observed at once, that the trade with Spain direct represents one part of
the question only; that the indirect trade through Gibraltar, and elsewhere, might, in its
results, reverse the picture. The objection is reasonable, and we proceed to enquire how far
it is calculated to affect the statement.

The total "declared value" of the exports of British and Irish produce, and manufactures to
Gibraltar, for the year 1840, is stated at

                                   £1,111,176
Of which, as more or less destined
for Spain, licitly or illicitly,
cotton manufactures,                  635,821
Linens, &c., &c.,                     224,061
Woollens,                              97,092

It may be asserted as a fact, for, although not on official authority, yet we have it from
respectable parties who have been resident on, and well conversant with the commerce of that
rock, that, of the cotton goods thus imported into Gibraltar, the exports to Ceuta and the
opposite coast of Africa amount, on the average, to L.70,000 per annum. Of linens and woollens
a considerable proportion find their way there also, and to Italian ports. Of British and colonial
merchandise exported to Gibraltar in the same year, the following may be considered to be mainly,
or to some extent, designed for introduction into Spain:--

Cinnamon value, 77,352 lbs., say value   L.21,000 Indigo 26,000 lbs., say                 
7,800 Tobacco 610,000 lbs., say                  10,166

Some cotton piece-goods from India, and silk goods, such as bandannas, &c., pepper, cloves,
&c., &c., were also exported there; say, inclusive of the quantities enumerated above, to the
total value of L.100,000 of commodities, of which a considerable proportion was destined for
Spain. Assuming the whole of the cotton goods to be for introduction into Spain, minus the
quantity dispatched to the African coast, we have in round numbers the value of

                             L.565,800
Say of linens one-third,        74,660
Of woollens, ib.,               32,360
Of cinnamon, India goods,
and other articles, in
value L.90,000, minus
tobacco, one-half,              45,000
                               -------
                             L.717,820
Tobacco,  the whole,            10,166
                            ----------
  Total indirect exports       727,986
  To which add direct          554,000
                             ---------
                           L.1,281,986

Again, however, various products of Spain are also imported into the United Kingdom via Gibraltar,
such as--

Bark for tanning or dyeing, 5,724 tons, say value,  L.51,500 Wool, 292,730 lbs. ib.,      
29,270

It may be fairly assumed, therefore, that to the extent of L.100,000 of Spanish products, consisting,
besides the foregoing, of wines, skins, pig-lead, &c., &c., is brought here through Gibraltar,
which, added to the amount of the imports from Spain direct, will sum up the account thus:--

Imports from Spain direct, L.1,732,000
Via Gibraltar,               100,000
                           -----------
               Total,      L.1,832,000

Exports to Spain
  direct,        L.554,000
Via Gibraltar,   727,900
                ---------
                           L.1,281,900
                           -----------
Excess in favour of Spain,
  and against England,       L.550,100

--A sum nearly equal to the amount of the exports to Spain direct. As we remarked before, these
figures and valuations, which are sufficiently approximative of accuracy for any useful purpose,
will take public men and economists, both here and in Spain, by surprise. Amongst other of
the more distinguished men of the Peninsula, Señor Marliani, enlightened statesman, and well
studied in the facts of detail and the philosophy of commercial legislation as he undoubtedly
is, does not appear to have exactly suspected the existence of evidence leading to such results.

From the incompleteness of the Spanish returns of foreign trade, it is unfortunately not possible
to test the complete accuracy of those given here by collation. The returns before us, and
they are the only ones yet undertaken in Spain, and in order, embrace in detail nine only of
the principal ports:--

For Cadiz, Malaga, Carthagena, St
  Sebastian, Bilboa, Santander,
  Gijon, Corunna, and the Balearic
  Isles, the total imports and exports
  united are stated to have amounted,
  in 1840, to about          L.6,147,280

Employing 5782 vessels
  of the aggregate tonnage
  of     584,287

Of the foreign trade of other ports
  and provinces no returns are made
  out. All known of the important
  seaport of Barcelona was, that its
  foreign trade in the same year occupied
  1,645 vessels of 173,790
  tonnage. The special aggregate
  exports from the nine ports cited to
  the United Kingdom--the separate
  commodities composing which, as
  of imports, are given with exactness
  of detail--are stated for 1840
  in value at               L.1,476,000

To which add, of raisins
  alone, from Valencia,
  about 184,000 cwts,
  (other exports not given,)
  value                        185,000

Exports from Almeria,           13,000
                             ---------
                           L.1,674,000

Although these are the principal ports of Spain, yet they are not the only ports open to foreign
trade, although, comparatively, the proportion of foreign traffic shared by the others would
be much less considerable. It is remarkable, under the circumstances, how closely these Spanish
returns of exports to Great Britain approach to our own valuations of the total imports from
Spain direct, as calculated from market prices upon the quantities alone rendered in the tables
of the Board of Trade.

Our valuation of the direct imports
  from Spain being       L.1,732,000
The Spanish valuation,     1,674,000

The public writers and statesmen of Spain have long held, and still maintain the opinion, that
the illicit introduction into that country of British manufactures whose legal import is prohibited,
or greatly restricted by heavy duties, is carried on upon a much more extensive scale than
what is, or can be, the case. In respect of cotton goods, the fact is particularly insisted
upon. It may be confidently asserted, for it is susceptible of proof, that much exaggeration
is abroad on the subject. We shall bring some evidence upon the point. There can be no question
that, so far as British agency is directly concerned, or British interest involved, in the
contraband introduction of cottons, or other manufactures, or tobacco, it is almost exclusively
represented by the trade with Gibraltar. We are satisfied, moreover, that the Spanish consumption
of cotton goods is overrated, as well as the amount of the clandestine traffic. Señor Marliani
an authority generally worthy of great respect, errs on this head with many others of his countrymen.
In a late work, entitled De la Influencia del Sistema prohibitiva en la Agricultura, Commercio,
y rentas Publicas, he comes to the following calculation:--

Imported direct to Spain, L.34,687
To Gibraltar,              608,581
To Portugal, £731,673, of
which three-fourths find
their way to Spain,        540,000
                         ---------
        Total,         L.1,183,268

Again, Great Britain imports annually into Italy to the amount of £2,005,785 in cotton goods,
£500,000 worth of which, it is not too much to assume, go into Spain through the ports of Leghorn
and Genoa. Adding together, then, these several items of cotton goods introduced from France
and England into Spain by contraband, we arrive at the following startling result:--

FRANCE.

Cotton goods imported into
  Spain, according to the
  Government returns,    L.1,331,608

ENGLAND.

Cotton goods through Spanish ports,     34,637
Through Gibraltar,                     608,581
Through Portugal,                      540,000
Through Leghorn, Genoa, &c. &c.        500,000
                                    ----------
Total,                             L.3,014,826

An extravagant writer, of the name of Pebrer, carried the estimate up to £5,850,000. Señor
Inclan, more moderate, still valued the import and consumption at £2,720,000. A "Cadiz merchant,"
with another anonymous writer of practical authority, calculated the amount, with more sagacity,
at £2,000,000 and £2,110,000 respectively. Señor Marliani is, moreover, of opinion--considering
the weight of tobacco, from six to eight millions of pounds, assumed to be imported into Gibraltar
for illicit entrance into Spain, on the authority of Mr Porter, but the words and work not
expressly quoted; the tobacco, dressed skins, corn, flour, &c. from France, with the illegal
import of cottons--that the whole contraband trade carried on in Spain cannot amount to less
than the enormous mass of one thousand millions of reals, or say ten millions sterling a-year.
Conceding to the full the millions of pounds of tobacco here registered as smuggled from Gibraltar,
of which, notwithstanding, we cannot stumble upon the official trace for half the quantity,
we must, after due reflection, withhold our assent wholly to this very wide, if not wild, assumption
of our Spanish friend. We are inclined, on no slight grounds, to come to the conclusion, that
the amount of contraband trade really carried on is here surcharged by not far short of one-half;
that it cannot in any case exceed six millions sterling--certainly still a bulk of illegitimate
values sufficiently monstrous, and almost incredible. We shall proceed to deal conclusively,
however, with that special branch of the traffic for which the materials are most accessible
and irrecusable, and the verification of truth therefore scarcely left to the chances of speculation.

First, for the rectification for exact, or official, quantities and values, we give the returns
of the total exports of cotton manufactures, taken from the tables of the Board of Trade:--

1840. Cotton manufactures,                      L.17,567,310
      Yarns,                                       7,101,308

And for 1840 here are the exports to the countries specified:--

                                                     Declared Value.
1840. Cottons to Portugal,               yards 37,002,209  L.681,787
      Hosiery, lace, small wares,                  --         20,403
      Yarn,                                lbs.   175,545      2,796
 Id.  Cottons to Spain,                  yards    355,040      7,987
      Hosiery, &c.                                 --          2,819
      Yarn,                                lbs.    --            345
 Id.  Cottons to Gibraltar,              yards 27,609,345    610,456
      Hosiery, &c.                                 --         21,996
      Yarn,                                lbs.    --          3,369
 Id.  Cottons to Italy and Italian Islands,yds.58,866,278  1,119,135
      Hosiery, &c.                                 --         41,197
      Yarn,                                lbs.11,490,034    510,040
                                                         -----------
                          Total,                         L.3,022,430

The discrepancies between some of the figures in these returns and those cited by Señor Marliani,
arise probably from their respective reference to different years; they are, however, unimportant.
We have already shown, that, deducting the re-exports of cottons to Ceuta and the coast of
Africa opposite to Gibraltar, the value of those destined for Spain, by way of the Rock; in
1840, could not exceed

                                                               L.565,800
We shall assume that one-fourth only of the cottons exported
 to Portugal find their way fraudulently into Spain--say         176,290
Say re-exports of cottons from Genoa to Gibraltar, assumed to
 be for Spain, as per official return of that port for 1839,      31,400
Cotton goods direct to Spain from the United Kingdom,             11,150
                                                               ---------
Total value of British cottons which could find their way into
  Spain, direct and indirect, in 1840,                         L.784,640
                                                              ----------
Instead of the amount exaggerated of Señor Marliani,         L.1,663,268
Or the large excess in estimation, of                            898,628

We have the official returns of the whole imports of cotton manufactures, with the exports,
of the Sardinian States for 1840, now lying before us.

The imports were to the value of only  L.443,360 Of which from the United Kingdom         242,680
Exported, or re-exported,                458,680

The whole of which to Tuscany, the Two Sicilies, the Roman States, Parma and Placentia, the
Isle of Sardinia, and Austria. It will be observed that there had been a great falling off
in the trade with the Sardinian States in 1840, as compared with 1838 and 1839; and here, for
greater convenience, we make free to extract the following remarks and returns from our esteemed
contemporary of the Morning Herald, with some slight corrections of our own, when appropriately
correcting certain misrepresentations of Mr Henderson, similar to those of Señor Marliani,
respecting the assumed clandestine ingress of British cotton goods into Spain from the Italian
states:--

"Now the official customhouse returns of most of the Italian states are lying before us--the
returns of the Governments themselves--but unfortunately none of them come down later than
1839, so that it is impossible, however desirable, to carry out fully the comparison for 1840.
Not that it is of any signification for more than uniformity, because, on referring to years
antecedent to 1839, the relation between imports of cottons and re-exports, with the places
from which imported and to which re-exports took place, is not sensibly disturbed. The returns
for the whole of Sardinia are not possessed later than 1838, but those for Genoa, its chief
port, are for 1839, and nearly the whole imports into Sardinia, as well as exports, are effected
at Genoa. Thus of the total imports of cotton goods into Sardinia in 1838, to the value of
about L.843,000, the amount into Genoa alone was L.823,000. That year was one of excessive
imports and 1839 one of equal depression, but this can only bear upon the facts of the case
so far as proportionate quantities.

In 1839, total imports of cottons
  into Genoa--value                L.494,000
Of which from England                313,680
Total re-exports                     475,000
Of which to Tuscany   L.131,760
Naples and Sicily       110,800
Austria                  61,080
Parma and Placentia      40,840
Sardinia Island          28,320
Switzerland              22,240
Roman States             14,880
GIBRALTAR                             31,440

The total value of cottons introduced into the Roman states is stated for 1839 at L.108,640,
of which the whole imported from France, Sardinia, and Tuscany--

1839.  Total imports of cotton and
         hempen manufactures classed
         together into Tuscany
         (Leghorn)         L.440,000
       Of woollens           117,200

"The total imports of woollen, cotton, and hempen goods together, in the same year, were to
the amount of L.155,000.

"Of the imports and exports of Naples, unfortunately, no accounts are possessed; but the imports
of cottons into the island of Sicily for 1839 were only to the extent of L.26,000, of which
to the value of L.8,000 only from England. In 1838 the total imports of cottons were for L.170,720,
but no re-exportation from the island. The whole of the inconsiderable exports of cottons from
Malta are made to Turkey, Greece, the Barbary States, Egypt, and the Ionian Isles, according
to the returns of 1839."

From these facts and figures, derived from official documents, of the existence of which it
is probable Señor Marliani was not aware, it will be observed at once how extremely light and
fallacious are the grounds on which he jumps to conclusions. What more preposterous than the
vague assumption founded on data little better then guess-work, that one-fourth of the whole
exports of British cottons to Italy and the Italian islands, say L.500,000 out of L.2,000,000,
go to Spain, when, in point of fact, not one-tenth of the amount does, or can find its way
there--or could, under any conceivable circumstances short of an absolute famine crop of fabrics
in France and England. Neither prices nor commercial profits could support the extra charges
of a longer voyage out, landing charges, transhipment and return voyage to the coasts of Spain.
It has been shown that in the year 1840, not the shipment of a single yard of cottons took
place from Genoa, the only port admitting of the probability of such an operation.

Not less preposterous is the allegation, that three-fourths of the whole exports of British
cottons to Portugal are destined for, and introduced into Spain by contraband. Assuming that
Spain, with thirteen and a half millions of people, consumes, in the whole, cotton goods to
the value of

                                            L.2,200,000
Why should not Portugal, with more than
three and a half millions of inhabitants,
that is more than one-fourth the population
of Spain, consume also more than one-fourth
the value of cotton goods, or say only          550,000?

Brazil, a ci-devant colony of Portugal, and with a Portuguese population, as may be said, of
5,400,000, consumed British cotton fabrics to the value, in 1840, of                      
1,525,000

So, also, why should not Italy and the Italian islands, with twenty-two millions of people,
be able to consume as much cotton values as Spain with 13-1/2 millions; or say only the whole
amount really exported there from this country of                    2,005,000?

It is necessary for the interests of truth, for the interests also of both countries, that
the popular mind, the mind of the public men of Spain also, should be disabused in respect
of two important errors. The first is, that an enormous balance of trade against Spain, that
is, of British exports, licit and illicit too, compared with imports from Spain--results annually
in favour of this country, from the present state of our commercial exchanges with her. The
second is, the greatly exaggerated notion of the transcendant amount of the illicit trade carried
on with Spain in British commodities, cottons more especially. In correction of the latter
misconception, we have shown that the amount of British cotton introduced by contraband cannot
exceed, nor equal,

                                             L.780,640
Instead, as asserted by Señor Marliani, of   1,683,268

And, in correction of the first error relative to the balance of trade, we have established
the feet by calculations of approximate fidelity--for exactitude is out of the question and
unattainable with the materials to be worked up--that an excess of values, that is, of exports,
results to Spain upon such balance as against imports, licit and illicit, to the extent per
annum of                                             550,000

It is therefore Great Britain, and not Spain, which is entitled to demand that this adverse
balance be redressed, and which would stand justified in retaliating the restrictions and prohibitions
on Spanish products, with which, so unjustly, Spain now visits those of Great Britain. Far
from us be the advocacy of a policy so harsh--we will add, so unwise; but at least let our
disinterested friendship and moderation be appreciated, and provoke, in reason meet, their
appropriate consideration.

The more formidable, because far more extensive and facile abuses, arising out of the unparalleled
contraband traffic of which Spain is, and long has been, the theatre, and the attempted repression
of which requires the constant employment of entire armies of regular troops, are elsewhere
to be found in action and guarded against; they concern a neighbour nearer than Great Britain.
According to an official report made to his Government by Don Mateo Durou, the active and intelligent
consul for Spain at Bordeaux, and the materials for which were extracted from the customhouse
returns of France, the trade betwixt France and Spain is thus stated, but necessarily abridged:--

                                               Francs.
1840.--Total exports from France into Spain, 104,679,141
1840.--Total imports into France from Spain,  42,684,761
                                             -----------
Deficit against Spain,                        61,994,380

France, therefore, exported nearly two and a half times as much as she imported from Spain;
a result greatly the reverse of that established in the trade of Spain with Great Britain.
In these exports from France, cotton manufactures figure for a total of

                              34,251,068 fr.
Or, in sterling,             L.1,427,000
Of which smuggled in by the
land or Pyrennean frontier,   32,537,992 fr.
By sea, only                   1,713,076 ...
Linen yarns, entered for      15,534,391 ...
Silks, for                     8,953,423 ...
Woollens, for                  8,919,760 ...

Among these imports from France, various other prohibited articles are enumerated besides cottons.
As here exhibited, the illicit introduction of cotton goods from France into Spain is almost
double in amount that of British cottons. The fact may be accounted for from the closer proximity
of France, the superior facilities and economy of land transit, the establishment of stores
of goods in Bayonne, Bordeaux, &c., from which the Spanish dealers may be supplied in any quantity
and assortment to order, however small; whilst from Great Britain heavy cargoes only can be
dispatched, and from Gibraltar quantities in bulk could alone repay the greater risk of the
smuggler by sea.

Señor Durou adds the following brief reflections upon this exposé of the French contraband
trade. "Let the manufactures of Catalonia be protected; but there is no need to make all Spain
tributary to one province, when it cannot satisfy the necessities of the others, neither in
the quantity, the quality, nor the cost of its fabrics. What would result from a protecting
duty? Why, that contraband trade would be stopped, and the premiums paid by the assurance companies
established in Bayonne, Oleron, and Perpignan, would enter into the Exchequer of the State."

The active measures decreed by the Spanish Government in July and October 1841, supported by
cordons of troops at the foot of the Pyrenees, have, indeed, very materially interfered with
and checked the progress of this contraband trade. In consequence of ancient compact, the Basque,
that is frontier provinces of Spain, enjoyed, among other exclusive privileges, that of being
exempt from Government customhouses, or customs' regulations. For this privilege, a certain
inconsiderable subsidy was periodically voted for the service of the State. Regent Espartero
resolutely suspended first, and then abrogated, this branch of the fueros. He carried the line
of the customhouses from the Ebro, where they were comparatively useless and scarcely possible
to guard, to the very foot and passes of the Pyrenees. The advantageous effect of these vigorous
proceedings was not long to wait for, and it may be found developed in the Report to the Chamber
of Deputies in Paris, before referred to; in which M. Chégaray, the rapporteur on the part
of the complaining petitioners of Bayonne, Bordeaux, &c., after stating that the general exports
of France to Spain in

1839 represented the aggregate sum of  83,000,000 francs, 1840           "             "  
104,000,000 francs, 1841           "             "        101,000,000 francs,

proceeds to say, that the general returns for 1842 were not yet (April 11) made up, but that
"M. le directeur-général des douanes nous a declaré que la diminution avait été enorme." But
although the general returns could not be given, those specially referring to the single customhouse
of Bayonne had been obtained, and they amply confirmed the assertion of the enormous diminution.
The export of cottons, woollens, silks, and linens, from that port to Spain, which in

1840 amounted in value to 15,800,000 francs, 1841                 also 15,800,000 francs, 1842
had fallen to     5,700,000 francs.

A fall, really tremendous, of nearly two-thirds.

M. Chégaray, unfortunately, can find no other grievance to complain of but the too strict enforcement
of the Spanish custom laws, by which French and Spanish contrabandists are harassed and damaged--can
suggest no other remedy than the renewal of the "family compact" of the Bourbons--no hopes
for the revival of smuggling prosperity from the perpetuation of the French reciprocity system
of trade all on one side, but in the restoration of the commercial privileges so long enjoyed
exclusively by French subjects and shipping, but now broken or breaking down under the hammering
blows of Espartero--nor discover any prospect of relief until the Spanish customhouse lines
are transferred to their old quarters on the other side of the Ebro, and the fueros of the
Biscaiano provinces, which, by ancient treaty, he claims to be under the guarantee of France,
re-established in all their pristine plenitude.

It is surely time for the intelligence, if not the good sense, of France to do justice by these
day-dreams. The tutelage of Spain has escaped from the Bourbons of Paris, and the ward of full
majority will not be allowed, cannot be, if willing, to return or remain under the trammels
of an interested guardian, with family pretensions to the property in default of heirs direct.
France, above all countries, has the least right to remonstrate against the reign of prohibitions
and restrictions, being herself the classic land of both. Let her commence rather the work
of reform at home, and render tardy justice to Spain, which she has drained so long, and redress
to Great Britain, against whose more friendly commercial code she is constantly warring by
differential preferences of duties in favour of the same commodities produced in other countries,
which consume less of what she abounds in, and have less the means of consumption. Beyond all,
let her cordially join this country in urging upon the Spanish Government, known to be nowise
averse to the urgency of a wise revision and an enlightened modification of the obsolete principles
of an absurd and impracticable policy both fiscal and commercial--a policy which beggars the
treasury, whilst utterly failing to protect native industry, and demoralizes at the same time
that it impoverishes the people. We are not of the number of those who would abandon the assertion
of a principle quoad another country, the wisdom and expediency of which we have advocated,
and are still prepared to advocate, in its regulated application to our own, from the sordid
motive of benefiting British manufactures to the ruin of those of Spain. Rather, we say to
the government of Spain, let a fair protection be the rule, restrictions the exceptions, prohibition
the obsolete outcast, of your fiscal and commercial policy. We import into this country, the
chief and most valuable products of Spain, those which compose the elements and a very considerable
proportion of her wealth and industry, are either untaxed, or taxed little more than nominally.
We may still afford, with proper encouragement and return in kind, to abate duties on such
Spanish products as are taxed chiefly because coming into competition with those of our own
colonial possessions, and on those highly taxed as luxuries, for revenue; and this we can do,
and are prepared to do, although Spain is so enormously indebted to us already on the balance
of commercial exchanges.

This revision of her fiscal system, and reconstruction, on fair and reciprocal conditions,
of her commercial code, are questions of far deeper import--and they are of vital import--to
Spain than to this empire. Look at the following statement of her gigantic debt, upon which,
beyond some three or four hundred thousand pounds annually, for the present, on the capitalized
coupons of over-due interest accruing on the conversion and consolidation operation of 1834,
the Toreno abomination, not one sueldo of interest is now paying, has been paid for years,
or can be paid for years to come, and then only as industry furnishes the means by extended
trade, and more abundant customhouse revenues, resulting from an improved tariff.

Statement of the Spanish Debt at commencement of 1842:--

Internal--Liquidated, that
          is verified,        L.50,130,565  Without interest.
        Not liquidated           9,364,228  with 5 per cent in paper.
        Not consolidated,        2,609,832
        Bearing 5 per cent,     15,242,593  Interest,     L.762,128
          Do. 3 do.              5,842,632     --           233,705
                               -----------              -----------
                              L.83,189,850                L.995,833
                               -----------              -----------

External  Loan of 1834, and the conversion
            of old debt,      L.33,985,939  5 per cent, L.1,699,296
        Balance of inscription to the public
          treasury of France,    2,782,681     --           160,000
        Inscriptions in payment of
          English claims,          600,000     --            30,000
        Ditto for American claims, 120,000     --             6,000
                               -----------              -----------
                              L.37,488,620              L.1,895,296

        Capitalized coupons, treasury
          bonds, &c., amount not stated,
          but some millions more           3 per cent,
        Deferred,                5,944,584
        Ditto,                   4,444,040  Calculated at 100 reals
        Passive,                10,542,582     per L. sterling.
                               -----------
                                20,931,206
                               -----------
Grand total, exclusive of
            capitalization   L.141,669,676

The latest account of Spanish finance, that for 1842 before referred to, exhibits an almost
equally hopeless prospect of annual deficit, as between revenue and expenditure; 1st, the actual
receipts of revenue being stated at

                   879,193,475 reals
The expenditure, 1,541,639,879
                 -------------
Deficit,           662,446,404

That is, with a revenue sterling of L.8,791,934 A deficiency besides uncovered, of    6,624,464

Assuming the amount of the contraband traffic in Spain at six millions sterling per annum,
instead of the ten millions estimated, we think most erroneously, by Señor Marliani, the result
of an average duty on the amount of 25 per cent, would produce to the treasury L.1,500,000
per annum; and more in proportion as the traffic, when legitimated, should naturally extend,
as the trade would be sure to extend, between two countries like Great Britain and Spain, alone
capable of exchanging millions with each other for every million now operated. The L.1,500,000
thus gained would almost suffice to meet the annual interest on the L.34,000,000 loan conversion
of 1834, still singularly classed in stock exchange parlance as "active stock." As for the
remaining mass of domestic and foreign debt, there can be no hope for its gradual extinction
but by the sale of national domains, in payment for which the titles of debt of all classes
may be, as some now are, receivable in payment. As upwards of two thousand millions of reals
of debt are said to be thus already extinguished, and the national domains yet remaining for
disposal are valued at nearly the same sum, say L.20,000,000, it is clear that the final extinction
of the debt is a hopeless prospect, although a very large reduction might be accomplished by
that enhanced value of these domains which can only flow from increase of population and the
rapid progression of industrial prosperity.

All Spain, excepting the confining provinces in the side of France, and especially the provinces
where are the great commercial ports, such as Cadiz, Malaga,[27] Corunna, &c., have laid before
the Cortes and Government the most energetic memorials and remonstrances against the prohibition
system of tariffs in force, and ask why they, who, in favour of their own industry and products,
never asked for prohibitions, are to be sacrificed to Catalonia and Biscay? The Spanish Government
and the most distinguished public men are well known to be favourable, to be anxiously meditating,
an enlightened change of system, and negotiations are progressing prosperously, or would progress,
but for France. When will France learn to imitate the generous policy which announced to her
on the conclusion of peace with China--We have stipulated no conditions for ourselves from
which we desire to exclude you or other nations?

    [27] See Exposicion de que dirige á las Cortes et Ayuntamiento
    Constitucional de Malaga, from which the following are
    extracts:--"El ayuntamiento no puede menos de indicar, que
    entre los infinitos renglones fabriles aclimatados ya en
    Espana, las sedas de Valencia, los panos de muchas provincias,
    los hilados de Galicia, las blondas de Cataluna, las bayetas de
    Antequera, los hierros de Vizcaya y los elaborados por
    maquinaria en las ferrerías á un lado y otro de esta ciudad,
    han adelantado, prosperan y compiten con los efectos
    extranjeros mas acreditados. ¿Y han solicitado acaso una
    prohibicion? Nó jamas: un derecho protector, sí; á su sombra se
    criaron, con la competencia se formaron y llegaron á su
    robustez.... Ingleterra figura en la exportacion por el mayor
    valor sin admitir comparacion alguna. Su gobierno piensa en
    reducir muy considerablemente todos los renglones de su
    arancil; pero se ha espresado con reserva para negar ó
    conceder, si lo estima conveniente, esta reduccion á las
    naciones que no correspondan á los beneficios que les ofrece;
    ninguno puede esperar que le favorezcan sin compensacion."

We could have desired, for the pleasure and profit of the public, to extend our notice of,
and extracts from, the excellent work of Señor Marliani, so often referred to, but our limits
forbid. To show, however, the state and progress of the cotton manufacture in Catalonia, how
little it gains by prohibitions, and how much it is prejudiced by the contraband trade, we
beg attention to the following extract:--

    "Since the year 1769, when the cotton manufacture commenced in
    Catalonia, the trade enjoyed a complete monopoly, not only in
    Spain, but also in her colonies. To this protection were added
    the fostering and united efforts of private individuals. In
    1780, a society for the encouragement of the cotton manufacture
    was established in Barcelona. Well, what has been the result?
    Let us take the unerring test of figures for our guide. Let us
    take the medium importation of raw cotton from 1834 to 1840
    inclusive, (although the latter year presents an inadmissible
    augmentation,) and we shall have an average amount of 9,909,261
    lbs. of raw cotton. This quantity is little more than half that
    imported by the English in the year 1784. The sixteen millions
    of pounds imported that year by the English are less than the
    third part imported by the same nation in 1790, which amounted
    in all to thirty-one millions; it is only the sixth part of
    that imported in 1800, when it rose to 56,010,732 lbs.; it is
    less than the seventh part of the British importations in 1810,
    which amounted to seventy-two millions of pounds; it is less
    than the fifteenth part of the cotton imported into the same
    country in 1820, when the sum amounted to 150,672,655 pounds;
    it is the twenty-sixth part of the British importation in 1830,
    which was that year 263,961,452 lbs.; and lastly, the present
    annual importation into Catalonia is about the sixty-sixth part
    of that into Great Britain for the year 1840, when the latter
    amounted to 592,965,504 lbs. of raw cotton. Though the
    comparative difference of progress is not so great with France,
    still it shows the slow progress of the Catalonian manufactures
    in a striking degree. The quantity now imported of raw cotton
    into Spain is about the half of that imported into France from
    1803 to 1807; a fourth part compared with French importations
    of that material from 1807 to 1820; seventh-and-a-half with
    respect to those of 1830; and a twenty-seventh part of the
    quantity introduced into France in 1840."

And we conclude with the following example, one among several which Señor Marliani gives, of
the daring and open manner in which the operations of the contrabandistas are conducted, and
of the scandalous participation of authorities and people--incontestable evidences of a wide-spread
depravation of moral sentiments.

    "Don Juan Prim, inspector of preventive service, gave
    information to the Government and revenue board in Madrid, on
    the 22d of November 1841, that having attempted to make a
    seizure of contraband goods in the town of Estepona, in the
    province of Malaga, where he was aware a large quantity of
    smuggled goods existed, he entered the town with a force of
    carabineers and troops of the line. On entering, he ordered the
    suspected depôt of goods to be surrounded, and gave notice to
    the second alcalde of the town to attend to assist him in the
    search. In some time the second alcalde presented himself, and
    at the instance of M. Prim dispersed some groups of the
    inhabitants who had assumed a hostile attitude. In a few
    minutes after, and just as some shots were fired, the first
    alcalde of the town appeared, and stated that the whole
    population was in a state of complete excitement, and that he
    could not answer for the consequences; whereupon he resigned
    his authority. While this was passing, about 200 men, well
    armed, took up a position upon a neighbouring eminence, and
    assumed a hostile attitude. At the same time a carabineer,
    severely wounded from the discharge of a blunderbuss, was
    brought up, so that there was nothing left for M. Prim but to
    withdraw his force immediately out of the town, leaving the
    smugglers and their goods to themselves, since neither the
    alcaldes nor national guards of the town, though demanded in
    the name of the law, the regent, and the nation, would aid M.
    Prim's force against them!"

All that consummate statesmanship can do, will be done, doubtless, by the present Government
of Great Britain, to carry out and complete the economical system on which they have so courageously
thrown themselves en avant, by the negotiation and completion of commercial treaties on every
side, and by the consequent mitigation or extinction of hostile tariffs. Without this indispensable
complement of their own tariff reform, and low prices consequent, he must be a bold man who
can reflect upon the consequences without dismay. Those consequences can benefit no one class,
and must involve in ruin every class in the country, excepting the manufacturing mammons of
the Anti-corn-law league, who, Saturn-like, devour their own kindred, and salute every fall
of prices as an apology for grinding down wages and raising profits. It may be well, too, for
sanguine young statesmen like Mr Gladstone to turn to the DEBT, and cast about how interest
is to be forthcoming with falling prices, falling rents, falling profits, (the exception above
apart,) excise in a rapid state of decay, and customs' revenue a blank!

       *       *       *       *       *

Edinburgh; Printed by Ballantyne and Hughes Paul's Work.