Since the short prefatory note to Raymond Poincaré (DUCKWORTH) tells me that the book was not
hastily mobilised and sent into the firing line earlier than its author had intended, I must
conclude that he is prepared to meet the onset of the critic. I will therefore suggest to him--and
this the more boldly because he is anonymous--that he sometimes treats French politics, both
international and domestic, with an allusiveness rather tantalising to the average English
reader. "The events of 1904," he says airily, and expects us to remember them at once. This
is a Gallic trait which would have caused us, I suppose, had we possessed it here, to allude
to the open space at the top of Whitehall as "the square of the 21st of October." There is
a supreme interest for us at the present moment in this study of the man whose dignified attitude
towards Germany during the Moroccan crisis, and support of the entente with ourselves, has
gone far to alter England's traditional policy in European affairs. It is noteworthy that the
writer takes a very firm line about our duty in this respect, and gravely deprecates the then
growing feeling of friendship with Germany. It is his opinion that M. POINCARÉ probably "exercises
more influence in his own country ... as regards foreign policy than did any of his predecessors."
He would also have us appreciate the French PRESIDENT'S many-sided ability as a lawyer, financier,
and educationalist. Indeed, his proposed Budget of 1906 might well have earned him a reputation
as formidable as that of one whom I will not name. They tell me that M. POINCARÉ has been to
the front. I hope I he saw there some worthy fruits of his strong policy in time of peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have not before met with a book by A. S. M. HUTCHINSON, the author of The Clean Heart (HODDER
AND STOUGHTON). That is my loss, for he has a curious intensity of vision, an arresting way
of making objective his thoughts by a sort of nervous battering emphasis of repetition. And
he has things to say. A curious theme and painful. One Wriford, editor and novelist, breaks
down from overwork and hovers about the ineffably dread borderline, crossing and recrossing.
And first that grotesque tramp, Puddlebox, drunken, devout, affectionate optimist, with his
"Oh, ye loonies of the Lord, bless ye the Lord: praise Him and magnify Him for ever;" then
the oldest sea-captain living, with his "portograph" in The Daily Picture; then a preparatory
school, full of boys; last, and most effectively, simple, sweet laughing Essie, daughter of
the cert. plumber--all help variously to win him out of his morbid wrestling to mental and
spiritual health. A live book this, and to be commended very warmly. But there are one or two
difficulties. Those grotesqueries of the tramp and the fantastically laughable adventures of
Wriford in his company--do they mingle quite smoothly with the painfully realistic manifestations
of poor Wriford's state? Can so dreadful a theme ride off successfully on so bizarre a steed?
And then again, was not the whole agony of the man on the physical and mental, not the spiritual
plane? For did not Wriford before his illness give many obvious signs of unselfishness? Is
there not in effect a certain confusion of the clean heart with the unclouded mind? I suspect
the author has some subtle sufficient answer. And anyway I urge everyone to make acquaintance
with two very lovable folk, the tramp and little Essie, among many others.

       *       *       *       *       *

