No. 35.] SATURDAY, JUNE 29. 1850. [Price, with index to Vol. I., 9d. Stamped Edition 11d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                Page
    George Goring, Earl of Norwich, and his Son George,
      Lord Goring                                          65
    MSS. of Bishop Ridley                                  66
    Lines written during the Arctic Expedition             67
    Folk Lore:--Legend of Sir Richard Baker, surnamed
      Bloody Baker--Cures for Warts--Charm for Cure of
      King's Evil--Fig-Sunday                              67
    Note on a Passage in Hudibras                          68
    Coffee, Black Broth                                    69

  QUERIES:--
    Queries concerning Old MSS., by E. F. Rimbault         70
    Minor Queries:--Chantrey's Sleeping Children in
      Lichfield Cathedral--Viscount Dundee's Ring--Kilkenny
      Cats--Robert de Welle--Lady Slingsby--God
      save the Queen--Meaning of "Steyne"--Origin of
      "Adur"--Colonel Lilburn--French Verses--Our
      World--Porson's Imposition--Alice Rolle--The
      Meaning of "Race" in Ship-building--The Battle
      of Death--Execution of Charles I.--Morganitic Marriage--
      Lord Bacon's Palace and Gardens--"Dies
      Iræ, Dies Illa"--Aubrey Family--Ogden Family         70

  REPLIES:--
    Sir George Buc, by E. F. Rimbault and Cecil Monro      73
    "A frog he would a-wooing go"                          74
    Replies to Minor Queries;--Carucate of Land--
      Golden Frog and Sir John Poley--The Poley Frog--
      Bands--Bishops and their Precedence--"Imprest"
      and "Debenture"--Charade--"Laus tua, non tua
      Fraus"--Dutch Language--"Construe" and "translate"--
      Dutton Family--Mother of Thomas à Becket--
      Medal of Stukeley--Dulcarnon--Practice of Scalping--
      Derivation of Penny                                  75

  MISCELLANIES:--
    "By Hook or by Crook"--Burning dead Bodies--
      Etymology of "Barbarian"--Royal and distinguished
      Disinterments                                        78

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, Sales, &c.          79
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                           79
    Notices to Correspondents                              79
    Advertisements                                         79

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

G.'s inquiry (Vol. i., p. 22.) about the two Gorings of the Civil War--a period of our history
in which I am much interested--has led me to look into some of the sources of original information
for that time, in the hope that I might be enabled to answer his Queries. I regret I cannot
yet answer his precise questions, when Lord Goring the son was married, and when and where
he died? but I think the following references to notices of the father and the son will be
acceptable to him; and I venture to think that the working out in this way of neglected biographies,
is one of the many uses to which your excellent periodical may be applied.

Confusion has undoubtedly been made between the father and son by careless compilers. But whoever
carefully reads the passages of contemporary writers relating to the two Gorings, and keeps
in mind that the title of Earl of Norwich, given by Charles I. in November, 1644, to the father,
was not recognised by the parliamentary party, will have no difficulty in distinguishing between
the two. Thus it will be seen in two of the passages which I subjoin from Carte's Letters,
that in 1649 a parliamentarian calls the father Lord Goring, and Sir Edward Nicholas calls
him Earl of Norwich.

Burke, in his Dormant and Extinct Peerages, vol. iii., makes the mistake of giving to the father
the son's proceedings at Portsmouth at the beginning of the Civil War.

Lord Goring the son, then Colonel Goring, commanding a regiment in the Low Countries, was,
at the siege of Breda, September, 1637, severely wounded in the leg, and had a narrow escape
of losing it. Sir William Boswell, the English ambassador at the Hague, writes to Bramhall,
then Bishop of Derry, and afterwards Archbishop of Armagh:--

    "Colonel Goring having the guard of the English in the approaches, was
    shot so dangerously cross the shin of his leg, a little above his
    ankle, as the chirurgion at first resolved to cut off his leg to save
    his life; but upon second thoughts, and some opposition by one of them
    against four, they forebare; and now, thanks be to God, he is gotten
    out of danger of losing life or leg this bout: his excellent merits
    caused a great sorrow at his misfortune, and now as great comfort in
    the hope of his recovery"--(Rawdon Papers, p. 39.)

That the son was already married to Lady Letitia Boyle at Christmas, 1641, appears from a letter
of the Earl of Cork, the lady's father, to the Earl of Norwich (at that time Lord Goring),
in Lord Orrery's State Letters (vol. i. p. 5. Dublin edition):--

    "I have scarce time to present my service to you and your lady, and to
    George and my poor Letitia, whom God bless."

In Carte's Collection of Letters (vol. i. p. 359.) {66} is a letter from Lord Byron, dated
"Beauvois, March 1-11, 1650," to the Marquis of Ormond, stating that Lord Goring the son has
come to Beauvois, and is on his way to Spain, about the settlement of a pension which had been
promised him there, and also to endeavour to get arms and money for the King's service in Ireland;
and that, having settled his business in Spain, he desires nothing better than to serve as
a volunteer under Ormond for King Charles. Lord Byron strongly recommends Ormond to avail himself
of Goring's services:--

    "I am confident my Lord Goring may be serviceable to your Excellence in
    many respects, and therefore have rather encouraged him in this his
    resolution, than any ways dehorted him from it; and especially because
    he is to pass by the Spanish Court, where he hath such habitudes, by
    reason of the service both his father and he hath done that crown."

In an intercepted letter of a parliamentarian, dated Jan. 8, 1649, which is in Carte's Letters
(vol. i. p. 201.), is the following mention of the Earl of Norwich, then under sentence of
death by the High Court of Justice:--

    "Our great minds say, Thursday the King shall die, and two or three
    great Lords with him, Capel and Loughborough being two of them. Goring
    hath gotten Ireton to friend, who excuses him yet."

Sir E. Nicholas writes, April 8, 1649, to the Marquis of Ormond, that the Earl of Norwich (as
he styles him) has been reprieved at the suit of the Spanish and Dutch ambassadors. (Carte's
Letters, vol. i. p. 247.)

In the following passage of a speech, in the discussions about the House of Lords in Richard
Cromwell's Parliament, there is no doubt that the Earl of Norwich is referred to as Lord Goring:
and I should infer that George Lord Goring the son was then dead, as he had unquestionably
done more than enough to forfeit his privileges in the view of Commonwealth men:--

    "What hath the son of Lord Goring or Lord Capel done to forfeit their
    right?"--(Burton's Diary, iii. 421. Feb. 22. 1659.)

George Lord Goring the son is referred to in another speech preserved in Burton's Diary, and
is there called "young Lord Goring." (iii. 206.)

Pepys mentions the return of "Lord Goring" from France, April 11, 1660 (vol. i. p. 54.). Lord
Braybrooke's note says that this was "Charles, who succeeded his father as second Earl of Norwich."
Is it certain that this was not the old Earl of Norwich himself?

The death of the old Earl of Norwich is thus chronicled in Peck's Desiderata Curiosa, p. 542.:--

    "Jan. 6. 1662-3, died Lord Goring on his passage by land from Hampton
    Court to London, at Brainford, about eighty years of age: he was Earl
    of Norwich."

CH.

       *       *       *       *       *

MSS. OF BISHOP RIDLEY: A "NOTE" AND A "QUERY."

A "Note" in the Original Letters relative to the English Reformation, published by the Parker
Society, p. 91., mentions the existence of an important MS. treatise by Bishop Ridley, which
had been unknown when the works of that prelate were collected and published by the Parker
Society in 1841. It seems to be desirable that the fact should be placed on record in your
most useful publication: the "Note" is as follows:--

    "A copy of Bishop Ridley's 'Conference by writing with M. Hoper,
    exhibited up to the council in the time of King Edward the Sixth,' was
    in the possession of Archbishop Whitgift: see his Defence of the
    Answer to the Admonition, A.D. 1574, p. 25. But its existence was
    unknown (see Ridley's Life of Bishop Ridley, Lond. 1763, p. 315.) in
    later years, till a copy, slightly imperfect, was discovered in 1844,
    in the extensive collection of MSS. belonging to Sir Thomas Phillips,
    Bart."

There is another MS. treatise by Bishop Ridley, that has been missing for nearly three centuries,
respecting which I should be glad to offer a "Query:" I allude to Ridley's Treatise on Election
and Predestination. The evidence that such a piece ever existed is, that Ridley, in answer
both to a communication from prison, signed by Bishop Ferrar, Rowland Taylor, John Bradford,
and Archdeacon Philpot, and probably to other letters from Bradford, wrote,--

    "Where you say that, if your request had been heard, things, you think,
    had been in better case than they be, know you that, concerning the
    matter you mean, I have in Latin drawn out the places of the
    Scriptures, and upon the same have noted what I can for the time. Sir,
    in those matters I am so fearful, that I dare not speak further, yea,
    almost none otherwise, than the very text doth, as it were, lead me by
    the hand."--Works of Bishop Ridley, Parker Soc., p. 368.

And to this statement Bishop Coverdale, in the Letters of the Martyrs, Day, 1564, p. 65., caused
the following side-note to be printed:--

    "He meaneth here the matter of God's election, whereof he afterward
    wrote a godly and comfortable treatise, remaining yet in the hands of
    some, and hereafter shall come to light, if God so will."

Glocester Ridley, in his Life of Bishop Ridley, 1763, p. 554, states:--

    "I never heard that it was published, nor have I been able to meet with
    it in MS. The great learning and cool judgment of this prelate, and the
    entire subjection of his imagination to the revealed will of God, make
    the loss of this treatise much to be lamented."

Could any of your correspondents offer any suggestion, or supply any information, which might
throw light on the subject, or might give a clue to the lost manuscript? The treatise referred
to {67} might possibly still exist, and, even if without Ridley's name, or in an imperfect
state, might yet be identified, either from the handwriting or some other circumstance. Do
any of your correspondents possess or know of any MS. on Election or Free-will, of the time
of the Reformation, which might possibly be the missing treatise? Things turn up so curiously,
in quarters where one would least expect it, and sometimes after more than three centuries,
that one would willingly hope that this lost treatise might even yet be found or identified.

T.

Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES WRITTEN DURING THE ARCTIC EXPEDITION.

The accompanying is from the pen of one of the officers who bore a prominent position in one
of the expeditions under Sir Edward Parry in search of a north-west passage. Not having been
in print, except in private circulation, it may be deemed worthy of a place in your valuable
journal.

ARCTICUS.

  THOUGHTS ON NEW YEAR'S DAY.

 "The moments of chasten'd delight are gone by,
  When we left our lov'd homes o'er new regions to rove,
  When the firm manly grasp, and the soft female sigh,
  Mark'd the mingled sensations of friendship and love.
  That season of pleasure has hurried away,
  When through far-stretching ice a safe passage we found[1],
  That led us again to the dark rolling sea,
  And the signal was seen, 'On for Lancaster's Sound.'[2]

 "The joys that were felt when we pass'd by the shore
  Where no footsteps of Man had e'er yet been imprest,
  When rose in the distance no mountain-tops hoar
  As the sun of the ev'ning bright gilded the west,
  Full swiftly they fled--and that hour, too, is gone
  When we gain'd the meridian, assign'd as a bound
  To entitle our crews to their country's first boon,
  Hail'd by all as an omen the passage was found.

 "And pass'd with our pleasures are moments of pain,
  Of anxious suspense, and of eager alarm.
  Environ'd by ice, skill and ardour were vain
  The swift moving mass of its force to disarm--
  Yet, dash'd on the beach and our boats torn away,
  No anchors could hold us, nor cables secure;
  The dread and the peril expir'd with the day,
  When none but High Heaven could our safety ensure.

 "Involv'd with the ages existent before,
  Is the year that has brought us thus far on our way,
  And gratitude calls us our God to adore,
  For the oft-renewed mercies its annals display.
  The gloomy meridian of darkness is past,
  And ere long shall gay spring bid the herbage revive;
  On the wide waste of ice she'll re-echo the blast,
  And the firm prison'd ocean its fetters shall rive.

"W." The gauntlet, gloves, helmet, and spurs were (as is often the case in monumental erections
of Elizabethan date) suspended over the tomb. What chiefly attracted my attention was the colour
of the gloves, which was red. This speech awakened my curiosity to hear more, and with very
little pressing I induced my old guide to tell me the following strange tale.

The Baker family had formerly large possessions in Cranbrook, but in the reign of Edward VI.
great misfortunes fell on them; by extravagance and dissipation, they gradually lost all their
lands, until an old house in the village (now used as the poor-house) was all that remained
to them. The sole representative of the family remaining at the accession of Queen Mary, was
Sir Richard Baker. He had spent some years abroad in consequence of a duel; but when, said
my informant, Bloody Queen Mary reigned, he thought he might safely return, as he was a Papist.
Many people of importance were stopped and robbed in the Glastonbury woods, and many unfortunate
travellers were missed and never heard of more. Richard Baker still continued to live in seclusion,
but he gradually repurchased his alienated property, although he was known to have spent all
he possessed before he left England. But wickedness was not always to prosper. He formed an
apparent attachment to a young lady in the neighbourhood, remarkable for always wearing a great
many jewels. He often pressed her to come and see his old house, telling her he had many curious
things he wished to show her. She had always resisted fixing a day for her visit, but happening
to walk within a short distance of his house, she determined to surprise him with a visit;
her companion, a lady older than herself, endeavoured to dissuade her from doing so, but she
would not be turned from her purpose. They {68} knocked at the door, but no one answered them;
they, however, discovered it was not locked, and determined to enter. At the head of the stairs
hung a parrot, which on their passing cried out,--

 "Peepoh, pretty lady, be not too bold,
  Or your red blood will soon run cold."

