All these transactions had been narrowly watched by Marjory, who was now more and more satisfied
that the doom of her husband was sealed, if he made his appearance before the king in the humour
he now exhibited. She saw them bind the warder with ropes until their trial was over, that
he might remain in pledge for the truth of his statements; and the heads again held counsel
on the next step they should take in the unexpected event of the "traitor," as they called
him, not being found at home, notwithstanding of their attempted surprise by a night visit.
These doings had occupied as much time as allowed the glimmer of early dawn to pass into a
grey light, that, while it did not render the torches unnecessary, exhibited in strange and
grotesque shades the group of dark figures, their changing faces, moving heads, and inauspicious
gestures, on which the gleams of the torches flickered faintly, in struggles with the rising
morn. Above them, the dangling noose claimed her averted eye, and sent through her nerves shivers
that seemed to make the blood run back in the veins, and stagnate about the heart. In any other
position but that in which she was placed, she would have made the castle ring with involuntary
screams; and it was only the intense anxiety with which she watched every sound in the distance,
in the struggling hope that Cockburn would not make his appearance, that bound her down in
the silent, breathless mood which she now exhibited. Neither could she have borne the extraordinary
spectacle below her casement, had it not been that her wish to watch every indication in the
direction of Tushielaw, overcame the feelings inspired by the moving tumult of fierce men that
waited there for the blood of her husband. Sometimes the thought found its way through her
anxiety--why did they not call for or visit her? But the solution was not difficult; for she
knew that men bent on purposes of cruelty, do not court the mediation of women. And then again
she meditated, for a moment, a descent to them, and an attempt, by throwing herself at the
feet of the king, to secure, by anticipation, mercy to her husband, when he might, if ever
he should, be found. This last thought was passing through her mind, and she had intuitively
drawn her clothes around her bosom, as a preparation for her rising resolution, when her husband's
horn, in all its well-known windings, struck her ear. That sound had hitherto inspired the
pulses of a living heart, and sent through her veins the delightful tumult of a gratified hope;
it had been the prelude to the close embrace of affection; the flourish of joy on the meeting
again of separated hearts. It was now the death-knell of both. She would have sunk to the ground
as the sound fell on her ear, but that the recess of the casement sustained her powerless frame.
After a few moments of insensibility, she again opened her eyes; and the first vision that
presented itself to her, was her husband marching into the castle between two rows of the king's
troops. He came nobly forward, with a free, erect carriage, and a look undaunted by the scowls
that fell on him from every side. On coming up to the king, who stood in a haughty, indignant
attitude, he was prepared to throw himself at his feet, when his eye caught the rope, with
the noose at the end of it, hanging from the buttress. He started, and threw a hurried look
up to the casement, where Marjory sat watching his every movement; but his fortitude returned
again, and making a step forward, he threw himself at the feet of the king.

"Here doth an humble subject," he said, "deposit the loyalty he oweth to his lawful king."

"On the eve, or in the midst of rebellion," cried James, in ironical anger. "Seize the rebel!
One caught in the act, maketh a good beginning. Four reigns of Jameses have been merely borne
or suffered, by beggarly tolerance, by these Border sovereigns, and the best part of a kingdom
made an arena for the strife of the contention of petty kings, who rob, and steal, and kill
on all hands, heedless whether the victim be king or knave. This shall be ended--by the faith
of Scotland's king it shall! 'Habit and repute,' is good evidence by our old law against common
thieves; and I ask my nobles, too good a jury for such caitiffs, what a common thief deserves?"

"To be strung up to the buttress," replied several voices, in deep hollow sounds, that rung
fearfully round the recesses of the ballium, and reached the ear of Marjory.

"Parys Cockburn of Henderland," cried James, "hath, by a jury of our nobles, been deemed worthy
to die the death of a thief, and a rebel against our authority. Let him be forthwith hanged
till he be dead, on the buttress of his own tower, as an example to evil doers in time to come."

A quick movement of simultaneous, and, in many cases, intuitive agitation, followed this order.
Two men seized the unfortunate gentleman, and proceeded to bind his hands behind his back,
while the executioner proceeded to let go the end of the rope, so as to bring within his reach
the noose, which had previously been purposely elevated, so as to be more exposed to the eyes
of the beholders. Every step of these proceedings was observed by Marjory from her seat at
the window; and it was not till she saw the men lay hold of her husband, and the executioner
proceed to adjust the rope, that she ceased to be able to watch the details of this extraordinary
mock trial and real condemnation. At that moment she uttered a loud scream, and fell on the
floor in a state of insensibility, from which she was roused by her little daughter, Helen,
who had come from her bed to ascertain her mother's illness. Rising in a state of frenzy, she
sought the door of the apartment, with a view to throw herself between the king and her husband;
but the door was locked in the outside--a precaution, doubtless, taken by the king's orders,
to prevent a scene of a woman's unavailing grief. The prospect, now, of being forced to remain
in a chamber a few feet above the gallows on which her husband, and the object of her strongest
and softest affections, was to be suspended, and hanged like a common malefactor, rose on her
bewildered view. Though she might place her hands over her eyes, the sound of his death would
reach her ear--the jerk of the fatal cord, the struggle of the choking breath, the last sigh
of her beloved Parys, would come to her, and reason might remain to bear it. If she could close
up both eyes and ears, her fancy would exaggerate the acts performing around her, and fill
her mind with shapes and forms, if possible more hideous than the dread spectres of the waking
sense. Breaking loose from Helen, and also from Hector--who had joined his sister, and had
from the window got some glimpse of the dire operations in progress in the court, and thus
ascertained the cause of his mother's scream--she ran round the apartment, in the way of unfortunate
maniacs, till her brain became dizzy with the quick circumgyrations, and then stood ready to
fall, staring wildly at her children, who had followed her in her progress with loud screams.
Meanwhile, the buzz of the preparations for the execution fell on her ear, and, running to
the window, she held forth her extended arms, and implored the king, in wildly pathetic words
and moans, to spare her husband. The king never moved his head; but many of the men turned
up their grim, embrowned faces, fixed their eyes on her beautiful countenance, and saw her
white arms wildly sawing the air, without showing any indications of being moved. Cockburn
himself, who stood with his arms bound behind his back, his armour off, and the neck of his
doublet rolled down on his shoulders, could not trust his eye in the direction of his wife
and children, but stood with a look fixed on the grey walls of his tower. The voice of the
king was now heard, crying, "Is everything prepared?" and, "Yes, my liege," rolled forth from
the mouth of the rough-toned executioner. The unfortunate Marjory, in this extremity, turned
from the window, and rushed into a neighbouring room, from which a few steps of descent led
to a window not so far removed from a broken part of the wall as to prevent her getting to
the ground. In this, by a mighty effort, she succeeded, hearing, as she hastened away, the
shrill cries of her children following her, and imploring her to return. Her brain was fired
beyond the capability of sane thought. The soldiers, who saw her fall on the ground, lifted
her up, and then pushed her rudely away from the ground they were ordered to guard, confronting
her otherwise impossible efforts to get forward by their swords, and threatening to do her
bodily injury if she dared to resist their authority.

At this moment she heard a voice commanding some one to seize and confine the wife of the culprit;
and, getting more confused by the occurrence of new and more harrowing incidents--the cries
of her children sounding from the window--the noise of those forwarding the execution, if not
at that very time, binding her husband to the gallows, filling all the air with a confused
buzz--and the coming of the men to seize and secure her--she sprang forward out of a postern,
and, with the rapid step of flying despair, endeavoured to get beyond the dreadful sounds which
haunted her ear. In her flight--the consequence of the spur of frenzy, as much as of a wish
to lessen pain which was insufferable--she came to the Henderland Linn, a mountain stream,
that falls rolling down the heights with a loud noise. It was much swelled, and the waters
were gushing and roaring over a ledge of rock that crosses its course, and forms in that quarter
a cascade--beautiful in certain states of the river, but frightful when the spirit of the storms
has sent down the red stream to dash over the height. The noise was welcome to her; and, exhausted,
she threw herself down on a seat by the side of the linn;[4] yet, so quick is the ear to catch,
through other sounds, that of the cause of a pregnant grief, that she heard the increased noise
of the crowd at the Castle, consequent on the execution of the sentence of condemnation of
her husband--a swelling shout, as of a completed triumph, came on the wind; and, unable to
bear this consummation of all her woes, she ran forward, and threw herself down with her head
in the line of the cascade, that the roar of the waters might drown the dreadful sound.

How long she lay in that extraordinary predicament, she was never able to tell; but the sound
of the roaring waters rang in her ear for many an after day. When she ventured to raise her
head, everything seemed quiet at Henderland Tower; and the silence now appeared to her more
dreadful than the former excitement. The storm, which had been gradually ceasing, was lulled,
and the morn had now attained to a grey daylight. She knew not what step to pursue. She would
remain, and she would not remain; she would return to the Tower, and she trembled at the thought.
Starting up, she began to retrace her steps slowly back through the wood, stopping at every
interval of a few moments, to listen if she could hear any sound. Looking around, she saw,
disappearing from an old road that led away to Tushielaw, the last of the king's troops; and
she omened sadly that they had completed their work. She hesitated again, whether she should
proceed to a place where she would inevitably behold a sight that might unsettle her reason.
But whether could she fly? What could she do? Her little children were there; it was still
her home, and the dead body of her beloved husband was also there. But judgment might vacillate
according to its laws; her feet had an impulse forward, which philosophy might not explain.
She was hastening towards the Castle, and she scarcely knew that she was occupied in that act,
in the absence of distinct volition. Looking up, she saw an old domestic running towards her;
who, on coming up, wished her to relinquish her determination to go towards the Castle, and
requested her to sojourn for a time in the woods, or wait till she sent for a jennet, to carry
her to some house. She would give no explanation of her reasons for this advice; but looked
terrified and confused when Marjory put to her some broken words of interrogation. Marjory
could abide no parley, and, gently pushing the old attendant aside, hurried forward to the
Castle, and entered the postern. The ballium was empty; the retainers of her husband had been
marched off before the forces of the king; and any domestics that were left had fled to the
woods in terror. She lifted her eye to the buttress, and saw suspended there the dead body
of her husband. At the window of her apartment were her children, looking on the dreadful spectacle.
The two elder had cried till their throats were dried and paralysed; and the youngest, who
understood nothing of these proceedings, laughed when it saw its mother, and clapped its little
hands for joy.

A knife, that lay alongside the place of execution, was seized by the unhappy wife; and, through
a loophole that was opposite to the rope, she stretched her hand, and severed the fatal cord.
The body fell with a crash upon the ground. Life was extinct; but who would convince the frantic
wife that her beloved Parys was gone for ever? She hung upon the dead body till, as the day
advanced, the terrified domestics came in, and took her away from the harrowing spectacle.
Force had to be applied to effect the humane purpose; and, for many a night, the screams that
came from the west wing of Henderland spoke eloquently the misery of this child of misfortune.
Cockburn was buried in the chapel ground near the Tower. Some time afterwards, when her grief
could bear the recital, she wished to know what took place between her husband and the two
messengers on that dreadful night--and she was gratified by the intelligence. Scott of Tushielaw
had got intelligence of Cockburn's intentions, and was upon the watch to defend his property.
A severe conflict ensued, in which several men on both sides were severely wounded. In the
very midst of the fray, Ralph rode up to Cockburn, and delivered his message; but the proud
chief replied, that he would face King James if he were the Prince of Evil himself; but that
he could not pay his respects to his king till he first humbled the proud Tushielaw. A like
effort was made by Thomas, and with a similar result. In fact, it appeared that Cockburn entertained
no fear of danger from the visit of the king, and treated the story of the gallows' rope as
a mere vision of some terrified mind; at least, if he had any doubts on that subject--and reports
of the fiery temper of the king might have roused his suspicions--he conceived that a bold
bearing would do him more good than a pusillanimous demeanour; and, as for flight, he despised
it, as well as disapproved of it, on grounds of fancied prudence, seeing that he would thereby
admit his guilt, and prove his pusillanimity, while it might ultimately turn out that the king's
intentions were not hostile, whereby he would be exposed to the ridicule and scorn of both
king and subjects. Having beat off Scott's retainers, and secured in this way, as he thought,
a fancied victory, he marched direct on to his own Tower; and, as he approached, sounded his
horn in his usual way, to tell his wife that he entertained no fear, and to impress upon the
mind of the king the boldness of the innocence of a man who had only been performing an act
of self defence, in teaching an old enemy that he would not commit an assault upon him again
with impunity.

In the course of time, Marjory Cockburn recovered slightly from the effects of these terrible
visitations, and often she expressed her surprise that Lailoken's prophecy about the elm tree
had not been proved by the events of that night; but some people thought that King James, who
knew the prophecy well, wished to reduce the credit of soothsaying, and therefore hanged Cockburn
on the buttress of the Tower, instead of the tree. Her little children played, as usual, round
her; and, if a relenting fate had had in reserve any means for alleviating her grief, surely
they might have been found in the prattle of innocence, and the hopes of a mother; but it was
not ordained that she should be thus relieved. Every day saw a change on her; she gradually
declined, till she took on the appearance of a skeleton. About three years after the death
of Cockburn, Marjory died, doubtless, of that disease which (though discredited by many altogether)
kills more mortals than typhus itself--a broken heart. The property had previously been escheated
to the king, and the name of the Cockburns of Henderland never flourished again. She was buried
in the grave of her beloved Parys; and some relation, who knew the loves and misfortunes of
the pair, caused the foresaid stone to be erected, with the inscription we have copied, and
shall copy again--"Here lie Parys of Cockburn and his wife Marjory."

FOOTNOTES:

[3] The old story of Scott of Harden and the hay sow, is well known.

[4] Few travellers on the Borders have passed unnoticed the "lady's seat."--ED.

THE EXPERIMENTER.

No one who has escaped an imminent danger can resist the impulse that compels him to look back
upon it, although the recollection harrows up his soul. It is now nearly thirty years since
the events of which I write occurred; still they are as indelibly impressed upon my memory
as the felon's brand upon his brow. It has rarely been the fortune of those miserable beings
to whose number I had a narrow escape from adding one, to retain so lively a recollection of
a long train of mental anguish. Even at this lengthened period from the occurrence of the events
referred to, in my solitary walks, or when sleep forsakes my pillow, they will embody themselves,
and pass in vivid succession over my mind; tears unbidden fill my eyes, and my heart melts
in gratitude for my deliverance from so sad a fate--carried out under the cloud of night, buried
like a dog, within sea-mark, or in the boundary of two proprietors' lands--entailing disgrace
upon my family, and a horror of my memory, even scaring the simple husbandman from the neighbourhood
of the spot where my ashes lay.

I was the only child of an aged father, the last of a family who had, in former days, been
of no small consequence in that part of the country where he resided; but before his day, the
numerous acres of land his forefathers had possessed owned other lords. All he inherited was
the respect of the old people, and the tradition of former grandeur. His elder brother, of
a more enterprising turn of mind, at their father's death had sold off the wrecks of a long
train of mismanaged property, divided the proceeds between himself and my father, and, after
an affectionate adieu, set off for the West Indies. My father, less enterprising, remained
where all his affections were fixed, and farmed a few acres from one of the new proprietors--void
of ambition, content to glide down the stream of life unknowing and unknown by the busy world,
all his cares concentrated on me, whom he intended for the church, and educated accordingly.
For several years, and until misfortunes pressed so heavily upon him, he maintained me at college.
When his means failed, I returned to my disconsolate parents, to consult how I should now proceed--whether
to go out to Jamaica to my uncle, or commence teacher. My father had applied to his brother
for aid in his difficulties, and been refused. The fears of my mother, and the wounded pride
of my father determined my fate--I commenced teacher, and succeeded equal to my ambition.

My income was small; but my habits were simple and temperate, and my means supplied my wants
abundantly. From the first dawnings of reason, my mind was of a studious, inquisitive turn;
I thirsted after knowledge of every kind; and, while ardent in all my pursuits, I was of a
joyous and hoping disposition. All was sunshine to me; even the blighting of my prospects at
college affected not a mind which felt a consciousness of being able to soar to any height;
a thousand projects floated through it, each of which, for a season, seemed sufficient to rear
me to the pinnacle of fortune and fame. Thus had I dreamed on for three years. One of my many
objects of study engrossed the greater portion of my thoughts--the mysterious tie that united
soul and body. Could I untie this Gordian knot--and I was vain enough to hope I might--then
would I rank amongst earth's brightest ornaments, and fill a niche with Newton and Bacon. This
extraordinary subject had even when at school, engaged the greater part of my thoughts. Often
have I left my fellows at play, and stolen to some distant part of the churchyard, to muse
and commune with myself, not without a boyish hope that some kind tenant of the tomb would
reveal to me his mighty secret. Void of fear, I have implored the presence of spirits under
the cloud of night. The feeling that filled my mind was an enthusiasm, which, though years
and changes have rolled over my head, is still remembered with a sensation of pleasure.

I had kept my school for three years, to the satisfaction of the parents of my pupils and my
own. My cup of enjoyment was full to overflowing. I had proceeded so far with several works
of science; every one of which, ere I began, was to establish my fame, but each was quickly
abandoned for some new idea. I had resumed again the first object of my inquiry, and was busily
arranging materials for effecting the glorious discovery, when I was seized by an epidemic
fever that was committing fearful ravages in the parish. All after this, for several weeks,
is a blank in my memory, a hiatus in my consciousness. Contrary to the expectations of all
that attended, I became convalescent. My strength slowly returned; but my mind had undergone
a complete change: its buoyancy had fled, and no longer, like a butterfly, fluttering from
one flower of fancy to another, it was fixed on the one engrossing object; yet I was conscious
that the faculties of which I had once felt so proud, were now weak as those of an infant;
and, dreamy and listless, I began to wander into the fields. My school had broken up. The greater
part of my pupils were with a successful competitor who now supplied my place. This deepened
my gloom; and I often returned with a feeling that my task on earth was accomplished--that
all that remained for me was to die--that I was a cumberer of the earth. I never complained,
but bore all in silence. I cared not for myself; but when I looked to my parents, I resolved
to struggle on, and did struggle manfully. I felt as a drowning man, who sees an object almost
within his reach, that, were he enabled to grasp it, would secure his safety. He struggles
and plunges towards it in vain, every succeeding effort only serving to diminish his hopes
of escape, while, by allowing himself to sink in the stream, he would cease to suffer in a
moment. To the eye of a casual observer, I had regained my wonted health, neither was there
any strong indication of the change that had come over my feelings; yet to speak or act was
painful to me, and I could not endure to be looked at with more than a passing glance--shrinking
like a criminal, and fearing lest the thoughts that were passing in my mind might be discovered.

A strange sensation had, for some time, taken possession of me. I felt as if in a false position,
by some means or other, to me inscrutable--that I had, at some former period of existence,
either on this earth or some other planet, lived, acted, and witnessed, as I was now doing.
Nothing appeared new to me: every incident of unwonted occurrence produced a dreamy effect
of memory, as if I had experienced it before. This frame of mind was more annoying than painful,
for I even at times felt a faint pleasure in it, and strove to anticipate events that were
lodged in the womb of futurity: but my efforts were vain; I could not penetrate the mist; I
could only recognise the objects as it cleared away.

At this time I was so fortunate as to procure the situation of amanuensis to a literary gentleman,
who was employed upon a work of great extent, but of little interest. My labour was entirely
mechanical. The confinement and the sedentary nature of my employment wrought still greater
change on me; for hours I have sat, like an automaton, copying passages I felt no interest
in, held only to my task by the consciousness of being no longer burthensome to my parents.
An entire new train of ideas began to pass through my mind in rapid succession; some of them
so fearful and horrid that I trembled for myself. I felt as if impelled to crime by some power
almost irresistible, and a strange pleasure in meditating upon deeds of blood took possession
of me. My favourite subject, the mysterious connection between soul and body, was again strong
upon me, and I longed to witness the last agonies of a person dying by violence. It was necessary
to elucidate my theory, and the desire to obtain the knowledge, increased. The crime and all
its horrors never occurred to me as any thing but a great, a magnanimous action, a sacrifice
of my own feelings for the benefit of mankind.

One evening my employer detained me much later than he was wont. We sat as usual--he at one
side of the table, I at the other. I had, all the afternoon, been much stronger than I had
for some time before, and felt more confidence in myself than I had done for several weeks.
No sensation gave indication of the misery that was to fill my heart. All at once my mind was
hurled, as if by a whirlwind, from its calm. My employer stooped over a book, in which he was
deeply engaged--his head was towards me. I was mending my pen with a stout, ivory-handled desk-knife.
The temptation came upon me, with hideous force, to plunge the knife into his head, and obtain
the great object I so long had desired. In this fearful moment I even reasoned--if I dare use
the often-abused term--that the wound would be small, and hidden by the hair, so that no man
could ever know, far less blame me for the act. I grasped the knife firmly in my hand, changing
it to the best position to strike with effect. My mind felt pleased and happy. I actually exulted
in the opportunity. My arm was raised to strike the unconscious victim of my madness, when
he raised his head, and looked me in the face. I sank into my seat, with a faint scream, and
wept like a babe. The impulse had passed away, like a hideous nightmare. I shook in every limb,
and raised my eyes to heaven, imploring pardon, and sighed forth a mental prayer of thanks;
while the intended victim of my madness, unconscious of the danger he had escaped, did his
utmost to soothe the agitation and distress which I could not conceal. I could no longer look
upon his benign and placid countenance without a shudder of horror, such as the wretch must
feel who is dragged to the spot where the body of his murdered victim lies witnessing against
him. I felt that he was a victim snatched from me by a merciful God--a victim I had murdered
in my heart. That same night I gave up my situation, much against the desire of my kind employer,
and returned to my parents' roof, the most to be pitied of living men.

For several days I never left my bed, and scarcely took any food. My mind felt, at times, quite
confused; at other times, strange ideas shot transitorily through it, with the vividness of
lightning; but they were only coruscations, and left no impressions. I forgot them as quickly
as they arose, and sank again into gloom. My malady began gradually to assume a new turn. Phantoms
began to visit me; the sages of antiquity were my guests. I hailed them, at first, with pleasure,
and enjoyed their presence, but soon grew weary of the voiceless, fleeting communion. In vain
I spoke to them, or put questions in the most impassioned tones. No sound ever met my ear save
my own. Yet there was a strange community of sentiment--an intercourse of soul between us;
for they would shoot their ideas in through my eyes--smile, or look grave--and nod, assent,
or shake the head, as various thoughts passed through my mind. After the first visits, I ceased
to use articulated language; it was a joyless communion, a languid inanity, and I felt as if
my own soul was no longer a dweller in its earthly tabernacle, but held a mysterious middle
state between life and death. In vain I endeavoured to exert my energies. I left my bed, and
began to move about; still this new torment clung to me. I possessed a strange power. I had
only to think of any event in history, and the whole was present before me, even the scenes
around becoming changed to the places where the circumstances happened. I wished my memory
annihilated; I strove not to think. My very endeavours called up more vividly new and strange
ideas; wherever I was, the place seemed peopled by phantoms. Wherever I turned my eyes, a moving
pageant of gorgeous or hideous figures, strangely real, were before me.

Oh, how I loathed my situation! Yet I complained to no one--not even to my parents; enduring
all in secret, and hearing the bitter taunts of friends and acquaintances, who passed their
heart-cutting remarks upon my indolence, and strange way of passing my time. To the eye of
a casual observer, I was in good health, and shrunk from making known my painful and unheard-of
state, lest I should be considered insane, and treated as such, by being placed in confinement--an
idea that made me shudder. I often doubted my own sanity; yet I felt not like ordinary madmen.
I had a consciousness that I was under some strong delusion, and what I saw could not be real;
still, my visions were not the less annoying and painful. The only intervals of rest I enjoyed,
was when the desire to witness the last expiring throb of a person dying by violence haunted
me, which it did at times, if possible, with more overwhelming force than ever. This was the
more unaccountable to me, for I am naturally of a humane and benevolent disposition; and, when
not overpowered by a gust of passion, timid and averse to acts of strife and violence of any
kind--shuddering and becoming faint at the sight of blood. My mental sufferings, from these
conflicts between my natural turn of mind and its morbid state, became so great, that life
grew a burden more than I could long endure. Still, I shrunk from self-destruction; or, more
properly speaking, the thought never occurred to me; for, had it come with half the force of
the others by which I was enslaved, I would have, in a moment, obeyed the impulse. I had no
idea of any crime, or a wish to witness the sufferings of the individual. I felt as a patriot
might feel who sacrifices all for the good of his country--immolating my own feelings at the
altar of science, and deeming the realization of my dreams of vital importance to mankind,
who had hitherto been unable to discover the mysterious link that bound soul and body together.

At length, the thought came into my distracted mind that I might be able to try the great experiment
upon myself; and a sensation near akin to joy came over me, as I turned over the various ways
in which this might be accomplished. My whole invention was at work, contriving the safest
mode in which I could approach nearest, without crossing "that bourne from whence there is
no return;" and I felt, for days, all the pleasures and disappointments of a projector, adapting
or rejecting the various schemes by turns. Bred at a short distance from the beach, I swam
well. To fasten a weight to my body, sufficient to sink me, with a knife in my hand, to cut
the cord as the last pang came upon me, and then rise to the surface, often presented itself,
and was as often rejected. I might be so weak, as not to rise, or, in my confusion, I might
stab myself in my effort to cut the cord, and the secret would be lost. At length, I fixed
upon the following mode. Unknown to my parents or any one, I prepared the little room I had
occupied from childhood, and, with a feeling of pride, called my study, by carefully securing
from it all access of air, as far as was in my power; then, attaching a cord to the door and
window, so contrived that the slightest pull would throw them wide open, I placed a chair in
the centre of the room, and a chaffer of burning charcoal by its side. With a feeling of exultation,
I sat down to complete my experiment. The cords were fixed to my arms, so that, when I fell
from my seat unconscious, the door and window would open, and restore animation by the access
of vital air. I would thus attain my object, without exposing myself, or becoming the subject
of public remark, which at all times was most hateful to me. I watched every mutation of feeling.
For the first few minutes, I felt no change, except that the room became warmer and more agreeable.
Gradually my breathing became more quick; but not in the least laboured. A gentle perspiration
came upon me, accompanied by a luxurious languor, such as if I had ate a plentiful dinner,
and stretched myself upon a sunny bank; an irresistible desire to sleep was stealing over me.
My feelings were highly pleasing; but a stupor gradually came over me, and banished thought.
My next sensation was a thrill of agony, which no words can express. It was more intense than
if thousands of pointed instruments had been thrust into every muscle of my body--plucked out,
and again thrust in, with the rapidity of lightning. Thrilling coruscations of vivid light
flashed across my eyes. I attempted to shriek--only a faint groan escaped; my organs of voice
refused to obey their office. Human nature could not continue to suffer as I suffered. Again
I sank into unconsciousness, and again my agony came on me, though not so intense as before.
Faint glimmerings of thought began to visit me. The first was that the agonies of death were
upon me; that I was in danger of sitting too long; and, with a convulsive effort I attempted
to throw myself from the chair, but felt I was restrained. Opening my eyes, I found them dim
and visionless; a dull and benumbing sensation made me feel as if my brain was bursting my
head; whether it was day or night I could not distinguish; my ears were filled with confused
sounds, mixed with a hissing and booming that distracted me; I felt faint and sick, so as I
never felt before or since. That I was dying, I firmly believed; and again I attempted to sink
from off the chair. As consciousness returned, I found myself stretched upon my bed. Still,
all was darkness and confusion, I fell into a lethargy or sleep, which lasted for hours.

When I awoke, my mother sat weeping by the side of my bed; her suppressed sob was the first
sound that fell upon my ear. Never can I forget that moment!--her melting woe, as she sat stooping
towards me; the anguish expressed in my father's countenance, as he stood supporting himself
upon the back of her chair, his eyes bent on my face. I turned myself upon my pillow, and gave
vent to a flood of tears.

Before a word had been exchanged, the surgeon, to whose exertions I was indebted for my restoration
to life, entered. To his inquiries after me, my mother answered, that, for the last few hours,
I had been in a quiet sleep, and had just moved and turned as if I had awakened; but that,
agreeable to his desire, she had not spoken to me. Without answering her, he stooped over the
bed to feel my pulse. I turned to him, and inquired what had happened. A mutual explanation
took place. That I had attempted suicide, both he and my parents believed, until, to vindicate
myself, I gave them a minute account of the object I had in view in what I had done. He listened
with intense interest, not unmixed with astonishment, as he gradually drew from me an account
of my long train of mental anguish. I could at once perceive that he did not ridicule me, but
rather sympathised with me, and blamed me much for not making my case known long before, as
it was not, he hoped, beyond the reach of medicine. He told me of several cases in which he
had been successful, nearly similar to my own, although not to the extent of duration and variety
of change. The following, which had nearly been as fatal, and would have been as inexplicable,
made the greatest impression on me.

The subject of his narrative was the wife of a near neighbour of ours, who had been dead for
some years. At the time both were well stricken in age, and remarkable both for their piety
and walk in life. Their family, the greater part of whom were alive, had all reached manhood,
and were engaged in active duties in different parts of the country. The old couple themselves
were living on the fruits of their early industry and economy, in a small solitary cottage,
calmly closing the evening of a well-spent life. The first attack of the malady was sudden
and severe, its approach being unperceived by any one, even by the sufferer. Both had spent
the day at church, and returned, conversing with their neighbours, until they reached their
own cottage, where they sat reading their Bible, or conversing on subjects derived from it,
until the herd-boy brought home the cow from the common pasture. On looking up, the woman saw
the cow standing and lowing at the byre door. She rose from her seat, and went to admit and
attend to the welcome guest. She did not return to the house after an unusually protracted
stay; and her husband, beginning to be uneasy, and fearful lest the cow might have kicked or
hurt her, went to ascertain the cause of her tarrying. Struck with horror, he found her talking
in a fearful strain to an imaginary second person, the cow still uncared for, and the milking-pail
upside down, she standing upon the bottom, busy adjusting a halter to one of the beams, and
imploring the ideal person not to go until she could get all ready to accompany him to that
happy land of which he spoke, and to which he showed her the way. Her distressed husband, rushing
forward, clasped her in his arms as she was putting the noose over her head. She screamed and
resisted with all her energies, calling upon the phantom to rescue her from her cruel husband.
For several weeks she remained in this state, confined and strictly watched. The surgeon succeeded
in subduing the disease; and when reason returned, she had no consciousness of anything that
had happened during the interval; but, with a grateful heart, returned thanks to God for preservation
and recovery.

My pride was wounded to observe that the surgeon thought I was insane, for he quoted the above
case as a parallel to mine. This I remonstrated against; and, although I could perceive a credulous
smile upon his features, I at once cheerfully agreed to put myself under his care. When he
retired for the evening, I found that I was indebted for my escape from death to a strange
circumstance--the death of my uncle, my father's brother, who had returned from the West Indies
some years before with considerable wealth and a broken constitution. We had never seen him
since his return. Prosperity had brought to him no pleasure, riches no enjoyment. From being
one of the most joyous and liberal of lads before he left home, he had returned to his country
sullen and avaricious; with all his wealth, a poorer man, in mind, than when he left it--suffering
from a continued dread of poverty, and the victim of hypochondria.

"Poor John!" my father would say, "how I pity you! Your money is not your own; you are only
the gatherer for some other person. You dare not enjoy a shilling; neither can you take it
with you when you die." My father had just received an intimation from a lawyer, requesting
his immediate attendance in Edinburgh, where his brother had died suddenly the evening before,
to make arrangements for his funeral, and look after his effects, as he believed he had died
intestate. My mother had hastened up stairs with the intelligence, and to request me to come
down, when she found me seated upon the chair, with my head sunk upon my breast, as if I had
been in a profound sleep. Overcome by the vapour, she sank upon the floor; the noise of her
fall brought up my father, whose first task was to rush to me, give me a gentle shake, and
then look in agony at me and at his wife. When he took his hand from me, I fell to the floor
by the side of my mother, and the window opened as I had contrived. Uttering a cry of anguish,
he seized the wife of his bosom in his arms, hurried out of the fatal room, sent the servant
girl for the surgeon, and returned for me, who was lying as if dead, my eyes open and fixed,
dull and void of expression. My mother soon recovered; a few neighbours came to her aid; and
the surgeon was, fortunately, soon found. Their utmost efforts were for long, to all appearance,
of little avail. The surgeon had almost despaired of success; at length his patience and skill
were rewarded by my returning animation. The rest is already known.

So violent was the shock my constitution had sustained, from the action of the noxious gas,
that it was several weeks before I was enabled to leave my room. The skill of my surgeon was
evidently operating a beneficial change upon my mind. The languor and heaviness, mixed with
restless anxiety, which had so long oppressed me, began to yield to the powers of his prescriptions;
my hallucinations became less annoying and more distant in their attacks, until they entirely
ceased, and I was restored to the full enjoyment of existence. Change of scene was his final
medicine; and this I most cheerfully agreed to take, for my circumstances were now affluent,
and enabled me to live or wander where I might choose. My restless mind would at times dwell
with peculiar pleasure upon some one favoured project or other; and, fearful lest I should
fall again into some new philosophical dream, I resolved to travel. With a stout horse and
a heavy purse, I bade adieu to my parents for a short time, and rode out of my native valley,
accompanied by Malcolm Dow, a stout lad who had been reared in the family, as my servant.

I would have gone to the Continent, and visited the banks of the Rhine, Switzerland, and Italy;
but I bethought me of the delightful and romantic scenery of our own dear land, with its infinitely
varied beauties; the endless pleasure I would have in viewing them, in all their bearings,
from the dark frowning passes in the Highlands, where rock rises piled upon rock, and the impetuous
cataract makes the stoutest eye reel in looking on it, to the wimpling stream that glides through
some bosky dell, where wild flowers spangle the banks, driving some village mill, whose distant
clack, mingling with the murmur of the stream and the song of birds from the woods, forms a
concert so sweet to the lover of nature. Without an object further than amusement, Malcolm
and I jogged on for the Falls of the Clyde. Early in the afternoon, we arrived in Lanark, where
I resolved to stop for a few days; and leaving Malcolm at the inn, looking after the horses,
I walked out by the West Port, to visit the Falls of Stonebyres. I descended the steep brae
to the old bridge, where I sat for some time, enjoying the sweep of the river, which was considerably
swollen at the time, and the falls were in great magnificence. I could hear the roar of the
waters as they dashed over from fall to fall, and perceive the grey mist that rose from the
abyss. As I sat absorbed in the scene, a venerable personage, evidently of the class of farmers
in the neighbourhood, came to me, and, after the salutation of strangers, he seated himself
upon the parapet by my side, and joined in conversation and anecdote of the scenes around.
He agreed with me that Clyde was a lovely stream; but added, it was a bloody one. I felt shocked
at such an epithet being applied to the object of my present admiration, and requested his
reason for it.

"O sir," he said, "my reason is too good for giving it that name; it has been the grave of
thousands, and will yet swallow more in its greedy bosom. My only son, the hope of my declining
years, perished in its waves; and even here where we sit, before this bridge was built, a scene
of heroic fortitude and resignation was exhibited to sorrowing numbers, who could render no
aid--a scene indeed not surpassed in ancient or modern history."

Struck by his manner, I requested him to give me the account as he had heard it.

"You shall hear it," said he, "as I had it when a boy, from my grandfather, who was one of
the sorrowing witnesses of the event. There lived, in a cottage on the banks, some distance
up the stream from where we are at present, a pious and industrious man, who had a very small
farm attached to the ferry, which he rented; the boat that plied across the river for the accommodation
of passengers was his principal support. He was very poor, and had a numerous family--very
young--to provide for by his exertions. The river was much swollen by heavy rains which had
fallen for some days. It was the day of the fair at Lanark, and he rejoiced in the gains he
should acquire. He was resolute and athletic, and, from long practice, knew the ferry well.
The labours of the day had passed off with cheerfulness; the river had continued to rise rapidly,
the evening was coming on, and the last boat-load, among whom was my grandfather, were embarked.
He pushed out into the stream, and, skilfully as he manoeuvred his boat, the river carried
them down considerably below the usual landing place. The steady boatman, of all that were
in danger, was alone collected, and free from alarm. His wife, who stood on the side with an
infant in her arms, mingled cries and prayers with the roaring of the swollen river. At length
he neared the side at an eddy, and the passengers waded to the green banks. His wife and all
called to him to step out also, and haul the boat out of the stream; but they implored him
in vain, for he relied too much upon his own skill and strength, and heeded them not. Two or
three passengers stood on the opposite bank, wishing to cross also; and the temptation of a
few more pence induced him to push again into the angry stream, after a kind assurance to his
wife, and those with her, that there was no danger. Scarce had he spoke, when it was evident
that he and the boat were as much the sport of the swollen Clyde, as a withered leaf. The skiff
shot along like an arrow towards the fall. A wild scream arose from both sides of the river;
all aid was out of human power, yet no cry for help escaped him; he sat down with calm resignation,
pulled his bonnet over his eyes, and, muffling his face in his plaid, cried--'Jesus have mercy!'
and, ere the sounds died away, he was swept over the tremendous fall, and perished."

The scene seemed to pass before me, as I listened to him, and gazed upon the stream. We parted,
and I proceeded to view the fearfully majestic spot, where the river on my right, increasing
its angry roarings, gushed over the awful rock. Descending the footpath on my right, the whole
scene of terror and grandeur burst upon me. The evening was approaching apace, and slowly and
reluctantly I began to ascend, after having scrambled to almost every accessible spot on the
side where I was. So much did the noise and sublimity affect me, that I felt one of my unsettled
fits stealing over my mind. Strange thoughts began to arise. I quickened my pace until I reached
the top of the height; and the glorious view--the beautiful sloping braes of Nemplar, and the
village gilded by the beams of the setting sun--burst upon me. I again longed for a view of
the magnificent fan-looking cascade from a new point; and so imperative was my desire that
I never thought of the danger. Stepping to the brink of the chasm, where the fearful tumult
raged many feet below, I could only catch an angular glance; and, to extend it, I caught a
bush, and leaned forward upon one hand and my knees. Dreadful moment! horrid recollection!--I
felt the bank giving way. A convulsive effort to regain my equilibrium, and a stifled cry for
mercy, are all I recollect--my heart collapsed, and all consciousness ceased.

How long I continued in this state I have no means of ascertaining; my first sensation was
a sickness that almost made me again relapse into insensibility, accompanied by a feeling of
pain in all my limbs. Languidly I opened my eyes; all was dark as midnight. The roar of the
waters stupified every sense. The horrors of my situation chilled my soul, and annihilated
all my courage. How I retained, by the energies of despair, unaided by reason, my half pendulous
position, I cannot explain. I was, for a time after consciousness returned, incapable of reflection;
my mind, a chaos of fear and horror. I felt wet to the skin, from the thin spray, which fell
upon and enveloped me like a cloud; a profuse sweat stood upon my forehead, and rolling down
in large drops, made my eyes smart. I grasped something that sustained me, yet I scarcely knew
how. Gradually the sickness left me, and cool thoughts of my perilous situation began to occupy
my mind; my energies and native desire of preservation began to strengthen. My first care was
to ascertain if any of my bones were broken. My legs hung over a ledge of the rock, upon which
the rest of my body lay supported by my hands, which still clung to the small object I had
grasped; cautiously I moved my legs, the one after the other: no bone was broken; but I found
them painful in many places. Still clinging to my hold, on which I felt my whole chance of
escape from being plunged into the gulf below depended, I, for some time, and by many useless
efforts, attempted to get my knees upon the ledge of rock; my position was becoming every minute
more painful, and I less able to retain it; my arms were benumbed, and my hands powerless,
from being so long above my head. I dared not pull myself up, for the falling of stones and
earth, when I first made the attempt, gave fearful note of the feeble tenure by which I was
sustained. My left hand began to cramp; the fear of instant annihilation seized me; I could
hold by it no longer. I grasped still more firmly by my right, and, stretching my left, found
relief, by moving it gently about, to restore the circulation. I dared not bring it down, lest
the other had failed; and, stretching farther than I had yet done, it touched something hard
and erect; it was the stem of a stoutish bush, that grew out of a crevice in the rock. A ray
of hope darted through my mind. I grasped it, still keeping my first hold, and got my knees
on the ledge. To stand on my feet was now an easy effort. The joy of that movement, in the
midst of my sufferings and despair, I shall never forget. I felt as if snatched from the roaring
abyss. My nearly exhausted strength began to be renewed; I felt comparative comfort; yet I
would have given all I possessed for my deliverance; my escape was not yet more certain, or
my situation much less perilous. I found that I still held clutched in my right hand the bush
that had given way, and been the cause of my disaster; but how far I had fallen, or at what
part of the hideous chasm I had been mercifully arrested, I had no means to ascertain; for
I stood, like a Russian peasant ready to receive the knout, with my face to the wall of rocks.
I looked to the right side and to the left; all was the most impenetrable darkness. My arms,
now that the weight of my body was taken from them, felt if possible more benumbed. I groped
with my feet as far as I could, and found my standing very narrow, but inclining rather into
than from the rock. I loosened one hand, and with an effort, that I thought would have dislocated
my shoulder, brought it to my side. The tingling sensation I felt from the returning circulation,
almost made me cry aloud. As I found that I still stood firm, I undid the grasp of my left
hand, but not before I had turned my face from the rock. I now stood facing the raging flood;
but its roaring was all I could distinguish. I now looked towards the Heavens, and thought
I could perceive the stars dimly, through the thick cloud of spray in which I was involved.
I leaned against the rocks, but my legs began to fail me, and trembled under the weight of
my body. I was imperatively compelled, while strength remained, again to change my posture,
and at length succeeded, and seated myself upon the ledge, my legs dangling over the edge.

Now, for the first time, I felt as if I were at ease, and began to calculate on the chances
of my escape--feeling that my situation was so much improved that there was every reason to
hope I should be able to sit out the fearful night, be once more snatched from death, and witness
the dawn usher in the glorious orb of day, when I felt assured every effort would be made for
my rescue. I gazed intensely down the roaring void, in hopes to see some indication that I
was sought after. Malcolm I knew would strain every nerve, nay, peril his own life, to save
mine. I thought I now could perceive first one dark red ball or light upon the edge of the
stream, quickly moving, followed by others. The blood-red glare, as they approached, gradually
became more bright, surrounded by a lighter halo; but they threw no ray where I sat, anxiously
watching them. Their bearers were invisible from where I was. At length they came nearer the
whirling pool, and cast a red shade on the water, where it shot over the last shelf. I could
look no longer--my brain whirled, I closed my eyes, I felt as if I would have fallen, even
after they were shut with all my force. I shouted with all my might, in hopes they might hear
my voice. Vain effort!--no sound less loud than the thunders of Heaven could be distinguished
amid the turmoil of waters.

Again I ventured to open my eyes. The lights had disappeared. I felt, if possible, more forlorn
than I had yet done; my heart began to sink; I laid myself along upon the hard rock, and, commending
myself to God, became more calm and resigned to my fate. If ever there was a prayer in which
true sorrow for sin, and humble confidence in the goodness and mercy of God, were poured from
the human breast, it was from that fearful place. After my devotions, a calm feeling stole
over my mind. I laid my head down, and, strange as it may appear, fell sound asleep as a cradled
babe, and awoke refreshed. The horrors of the earlier part of the night came upon me like a
fearful dream. The waters thundered in my ears. I opened my eyes, and looked up. The first
rays of the sun, glancing upon the mists raised by the falls, formed numerous rainbows. I dared
not to look down to the abyss, or forward to the rushing stream. With a feeling of utter helplessness,
I turned my face again to the rock, and looked up. A cry of hope and thanksgiving escaped my
lips--the top of the bank was only a few feet from where I lay! Rising to my knees, and holding
by the bushes, I poured forth my morning prayers of thanksgiving and supplication for deliverance.
I rose to my feet; the edge was only a little above my reach--my situation was still fearfully
critical. Whether to risk all, and, by my own efforts, free myself, or wait until aid came,
I turned over in my mind for a few minutes, as I examined the space above me. The noise of
the waters, and agitation of my mind, were again beginning to render my situation more and
more perilous, and I felt there was no time to lose. It was far more appalling in the glare
of day than the cloud of night, and, with a desperate energy, I made the attempt, clinging
to what I could grasp. I know not how I succeeded, until I lay stretched upon the verge of
the gulf, secure from danger. I dared not rise to my feet--I crept upon my hands and knees
for several yards, then sprang up, nor looked behind. Unheeding the path I took, I ran until
I sank exhausted, the roar of the waters no longer sounding in my ears. The sight of the place
was now hateful to me. I resolved not to visit it again, or see the other falls--indeed, I
was very ill, from the night's exposure to damp, and the sufferings of my mind.

Without hat or shoes, I entered the inn of the village. On raising the people from their beds,
my appearance was so suspicious, that it was with difficulty they allowed me to enter; but
a seven-shilling piece, which I tendered to the landlady, acted as a charm in raising her good
opinion of me. I obtained a warm bed, and a cordial, while she prepared breakfast, and dried
my clothes, which were soiled and wet. I evaded all her artful inquiries to learn how I had
come into my present situation. It looked so improbable, even to myself, that I thought no
one would give credit to my relation; and the rumours upon my former escape made me resolve
to keep it secret from every one, even Malcolm, to whom I wrote to come over to me with the horses.

I remained in my room until his arrival, which was not until late in the forenoon. When he
arrived, I thought he would have gone distracted with joy--he wept and laughed by turns--gazing
at times with a vacant stare, then touching me to prove my identity. After he became more composed,
I learned that it was currently reported and believed in Lanark, that I had perished in the
river. Malcolm had waited for me with extreme impatience, after nightfall, until about ten
o'clock, when he could be induced by the landlord of the inn to remain no longer, and even
the landlord had become uneasy. After some delay, several men were engaged to accompany Malcolm
in his search for me, and, having procured torches and a lantern, they proceeded to the side
of the river, beneath the fall, and, after searching every spot they could reach in the darkness
of the night, for more than a mile on each side, they again, on Malcolm's importunities, and
his offer of a handsome reward, renewed their search the second time. In an eddy not far below
the fall, one of them discovered my hat, sunk near the margin, and filled with water and mud.
That I had been drowned none of the party had the smallest doubt. The search had continued
for upwards of three hours, their torches were burned out, and the men refused to remain longer;
but no persuasion could induce Malcolm to leave the side of the swollen river, where he had
remained during the short interval till day; the landlord promising to return early, with drags,
and men, to search for my body. In this manner they had been employed, until all hope had fled,
and they, accompanied by Malcolm, had returned to the inn, where he found my letter. Confused
by hope and doubt, he had hurried on foot, and run to me. Moved by his affection, I gave him
a sum of money, to reward the landlord and his assistants, telling him I was extremely sorry
for the alarm and trouble I had put them all to; but that my hat having fallen in, and my not
returning, were caused by a circumstance I did not choose to explain.

As I felt no serious inconvenience from my adventure, I rose and dressed, and left the village
for Glasgow, after dinner. As we passed the Cartland Bridge, I shut my eyes, to prevent my
seeing the river, and put spurs to my horse, to quit the scene where I had suffered so much
in so short a time.

After wandering over the greater part of Scotland for several weeks, I became weary of enjoyment,
and turned our horses' heads homewards by the coast of Ayrshire, with a view to visit the Island
of Arran, and then cross the country to Stirling, by Loch Lomond. We had reached Largs, on
the coast of Ayrshire, and saw the Isle of Bute, the Cumbraes, and the lofty summits of Arran,
rise out of the Firth of Clyde, in beautiful succession. At this time steamboats were unknown.
I agreed with the landlord of the inn to have our horses carefully sent round by Glasgow, to
wait us at Dumbarton, and set out for the beach, to enjoy the scene, and agree for a boat to
carry us on our aquatic excursion; but the time passed on, and evening approached when we were
at a considerable distance from the town. We had been sometimes upon the beach, at others among
the rocks, as fancy led. I said to Malcolm that I would now return to our inn, and cause our
landlord to make arrangements for a boat. As we hurried away from the shore towards the town,
four men, in seamen's apparel, rushed from behind a rock, and pinioned our arms before we were
aware. Two of them held pistols in their hands, threatening to fire if we uttered a sound,
and pushed us before them to the spot whence they had issued. Here we found two other similar
characters; the whole were stout, athletic men, of different ages, bronzed by the weather.

The place where we were was close by the beach, under a rock which beetled out for a few feet--the
sea, at full, coming almost up to the base--but protruding sufficiently to conceal, except
in front, a number of people. Still pointing the pistols to our breasts, and almost touching
our vests, they bound our hands together behind our backs, and, taking our handkerchiefs from
our pockets, covered our faces. We were silent and passive in their hands; yet in agony of
fear. They placed us upon the hard rock, and we dared not ask one question, to ascertain the
cause of our detention. From the few words that we could pick up out of their conversation,
which was carried on in whispers, I could learn that the disposal of our persons engaged them.
Malcolm could contain his fears no longer, and began to plead for mercy for his master and
himself. One of the fellows snapped his pistol; I could hear the click and smell the powder.

"You are in luck this bout," said a voice; "but don't make me try it again; she never flashed
in the pan before. We don't threaten for naught; so bless your luck, and take warning."

A long period of fearful suspense ensued, in which my imagination conjured up a thousand objects
of horror and suffering. The sea-breeze gently sighed among the rocks, and we heard the soft
cadence of the gentle waves that fell near our feet, as the tide advanced. That we had become
objects of alarm to a band of lawless men, whose lives were spent in violating the laws of
their country, I was fully aware, but in what manner I knew not, unless that, by our sauntering
about the rocks, they had suspected us to belong to the excise. In such cases I had heard that
they were apt to do deeds of violence; but Malcolm's escape prevented me from speaking a word,
or requesting an explanation. At length the sound of oars pulled steadily and with caution,
fell upon my ears; and a confused suppressed sound of many voices soon followed; then there
was the trampling of feet through the water and upon the rock, with the noise as if numerous
articles were placed close to where we sat. Shivering from cold, we sat in anxious suspense.
That I had been right in my conjecture, I felt now assured; and, at this moment, I thought
they were delivering their cargo. Soon the movements ceased; we were grasped by powerful hands,
again threatened with death if we uttered a word, and placed in a boat, which, by the motion,
seemed to glide through the water for a considerable time. No word was spoken by those in the
boat, except in whispers. Again I found it touch the beach. We were lifted out, and placed
upon the edge of the water, the cords cut from our wrists, and, in one moment after, the sound
of the departing boat fell upon our gratified ears. We were alone, and the first use we made
of our regained liberty, was to take the mufflings from our faces. All was dark around, nor
could we discern any object except the faint phosphoric light that marked the margin of the
waves here and there, like golden threads, as they broke at our feet.

We now breathed more freely; our situation, though far from comfortable, was free from the
dread of immediate violence; for we stood alone and solitary upon an unknown beach--but whether
in Ayrshire, Bute, or Argyle, we had no means to ascertain. From our painful position while
in the boat, the time had hung so heavy on us that it appeared we had sailed a great distance.
Not so much as to the value of a farthing had been taken from our persons, nor any violence
used, more than was necessary to keep us silent and prevent our escape. I now, indeed, think,
that the pistol which was snapped at Malcolm, had only powder in the pan, to intimidate. After
consulting for some time on the best means of extricating ourselves from the necessity of passing
the night on the exposed beach, we agreed to proceed inland, at any risk, whether of falls
or a ducking, in quest of a roof to cover us. Before we left, I groped the face of my watch--to
see it was impossible, the night was so dark. I found the hands to indicate half-past ten;
so we had thus been four hours in the hands of our captors.

Stumbling or falling at every few steps, we now proceeded slowly on. Malcolm, who preceded
me, once or twice plunged into quagmires, through which I followed, until I was almost spent.
At length a faint light, at some distance, caught our eyes. Onwards we urged, until we could
distinguish a cottage, from whose small window the light proceeded. After scrambling over a
low, loose stone wall, we found ourselves in the cottage garden. I looked in at the window,
and could perceive a man and two women--one old, the other young--seated by the fire. There
was no other light of any kind burning; and the dull ray of the fire gave to the interior a
gloomy appearance, save where it fell on the three individuals who sat crouching before it.
There being no door on the side we were on, we walked to the front, and knocked for admittance.
This side of the cottage gave no indication of any light being within--the window being carefully
closed. For some time we knocked in vain--no answer was made. At length, our knockings were
answered by a female voice--

"What want ye here at this time o' nicht, disturbing a lone woman?"

"My good woman," I replied, "we are strangers, who know not where we are. Be so kind as open
the door to us."

"Gae 'wa--gae 'wa; I will do nae sic thing; I hae nae uppitting for ye."

"My good woman," said I, in the most soothing manner I could, "do, for charity, open the door.
We are like to perish from fatigue, and can proceed no further. You shall be paid whatever
you ask for any accommodation you can afford, were it only to sit by your fire until daybreak."

After some time spent in entreaties, the door was cautiously opened by a female, who held a
small lamp in her hand, and we were ushered into a small apartment--not the same we had seen,
but a dark and uncomfortable place. She appeared to be greatly alarmed, and requested us not
to make any noise, or to speak loud, whatever we heard, or we might bring her into danger for
her humanity, and ourselves into greater hazard. We would, she added, have ourselves alone
to blame for any evil that might follow. Taking the lamp with her, she retired, saying she
would bring us refreshments in a few minutes. We now regretted being admitted into this mysterious
shelter; yet the looks of the woman--the younger of the two we had seen from the back of the
house--were soft and sweet, rather inclining to melancholy. We had no time to communicate our
suspicions before her return. She set before us a bottle containing some brandy, a jug of water,
and a sufficient quantity of bread and cheese; and urged us to make haste and retire to bed.
Having filled a glass of the liquor, she gave it to Malcolm. He drank it off at once, with
great pleasure. My eyes were upon her. I saw a shade of anxiety on her countenance, succeeded
by a look of satisfaction, when he returned the empty glass. I cannot account for it, but a
suspicion came upon me that there was more in the giving of the liquor than courtesy; and I
resolved not to taste it. She filled out the same quantity for me; but I declined it. Her look
changed--she became embarrassed--and she requested me to take it, as it was to do me good.
There was a something in the tone of her voice, and a benignity in her manner, that almost
did away with my suspicions. I took the glass in my hand, and, requesting her to fill a cup
of water for me, lifted the glass to my head. While she poured the water, I emptied the liquor
into the bosom of my vest, placed, by the same movement, the glass to my mouth, and, returning
it to her, drank off the water. She immediately retired; saying, with a smile, in which there
was much of good nature--

"I am sorry for your poor accommodation. Good night!"

I now began to reflect upon my situation. Fear predominated. I had been led into it I scarce
knew how. I blamed myself for entering; yet I was not aware of what was to take place in it.
We were, unarmed and fatigued, on a part of the coast I knew not where. I looked to my watch;
it wanted a few minutes of twelve; we had not been one quarter of an hour under the roof. I
looked at Malcolm, by the feeble light of the lamp, wondering why he neither moved nor spoke.
He was in a dead sleep, leaning upon his high-backed wooden chair. I attempted to rouse him,
in vain, by shaking him. That the brandy had been drugged, I was now convinced. My heart sank
within me. I glanced round, for means to escape, and procure help to rescue my faithful servant;
but there was neither window nor fireplace in the small room in which we were. I placed my
hand upon the door, to rush into the other apartment; but the recollection of the man I had
seen, the suspicion that there might be more in the house, and the girl's warning, detained
me. As I stood, sweating with agony, I heard voices in conversation in the other apartment.

"Mary," said the old woman, "ye are owre softhearted for the trade we are engaged in. Ye will,
some time or ither, rue yer failing."

"Mither," was the reply, "I may rue it, but ne'er repent it. I couldna, for the life o' me,
keep twa human creatures pleading for shelter, wha kendna whar to gang in a mirk nicht like
this. Did I do wrang, Jamie?"

"I fear you have, Mary," said the man. "If Captain Bately finds them here when he arrives--he
is such a devil!--I know not what he may do to them; he is so jealous and fearful of informers;
and, this trip, he has a rich cargo for the Glasgow merchants."

"I'm no feared, if ye dinna inform yersel," said the daughter; "for I hae given them baith
a dram o' the Dutchman's bottle, that will keep them quiet aneugh, or I'm sair cheated; for
it's nae weaker for me."

At this period of the conversation, I heard the tramp of horses' feet and the voices of several
men approaching the house. The door was opened without knocking, and several men entered. One
of them demanded if all was right.

"Sae far as I hae heard, captain," said the old woman.

"So far good, old mother," replied he. "James, have you seen our agent from Glasgow?--how goes
it there?"

"All right, captain," said James.

"I will then make a good run of it," rejoined the other. "But I was nearly making a bad one.
Two of these land-sharks were watching our motions under the rocks; fortunately, they were
observed, and put out of the way in time. All had been up with me this trip, had they got back
to Largs before we were cleared. Come, lads, bait your horses quickly; we have a long way through
the muirs ere dawn."

He was interrupted by the scraping and furious barking of a dog at the door where I stood listening.
My heart leaped as if it would burst, my temples throbbed, and my ears rung; yet my presence
of mind did not forsake me. Imitating Malcolm, I placed myself in my chair, and feigned myself
dead asleep.

So many voices spoke at once that I could not make out a word that was said, except imprecations
and entreaties. The lamp still burned upon the table before me. The door opened, and the captain
entered, accompanied by several others.

"Dear captain," said Mary, "they are not informers--they are strangers, and fast asleep. Harm
them not, for mercy's sake!"

"Silly wench!" replied the captain. "Peace!--I say, peace! These are the same rascals who were
watching us this whole afternoon. How the devil came they here, if they have not some knowledge
of our proceedings? Look to your arms, my lads! We will shew them they have caught a Tartar."
I heard one pistol cocked, then another. How I restrained myself from shewing my agitation
I know not; I was nearly fainting.

"Captain," cried Mary, "you shall not harm them, or you must do to me as you do to them. You
are as safe as ye were before I let them in. Do ye no see they are dead asleep?--try them,
and believe me for aince, like a good fellow."

"I don't wish to do more than is necessary for my own safety," said he; "perhaps they are not
what I take them for; but fellows will talk of what they see." Taking Malcolm by the shoulder,
he gave him a shake, as I saw through between my eyelids, nearly closed. "Fellow," he cried,
"who are you?" Malcolm neither heard nor felt him; so powerful had the opiate been. He passed
the lamp before his eyes, and made a blow at his head with the but-end of his pistol. Malcolm
moved not a muscle of his face. He was satisfied. After passing the lamp so close before my
eyes that one of my eyebrows was nearly singed by the flame, he set it slowly upon the table,
and I felt the muzzle of the pistol touch my temple. I moved not a muscle of my face. It was
withdrawn, and I heard him pace the room for a moment, muttering curses at the young woman,
who endeavoured to soothe his rage. No other person spoke. He paused at length, and, lifting
the lamp, held it again to my face.

"I am satisfied--all is right," said he; "but, if you dare again, Mary, to do the same, you
and your mother may go hang for me--that's all. Come, boys, be moving--we lose time." In a
few minutes afterwards, I heard the sound of their horses' feet leaving the house. My lungs
recovered their elasticity; I breathed more freely. Mary entered, and, lifting the lamp to
remove it, looked upon us in tears. I would have spoken, but refrained, lest I had given farther
alarm and uneasiness to one so kind and humane. She looked upon us, smiling through her tears.

"Poor men!" she said, "yer hearts were at ease when mine, for your sake and my ain, was like
to break; yet, I dinna think he wad killed ye, devil as he is, if ye didna fight wi' him; but
he wad carried ye awa to Holland, or France; and then what wad yer puir wives, if ye hae them,
hae suffered, no kenning what had come owre ye? Oh, that I could but get free o' them, and
Jamie gie up this way o' life!" (A heavy sigh followed.) "But ye are sleeping sound and sweet,
when I am sleepless. O Jamie, will ye no leave thae night adventures, and be content wi what
ye can earn through the day?" She gently shut the door as she retired, and all became still
as death. With a feeling of security I laid myself upon the bed, and soon fell into a profound
sleep. It was late in the morning ere I awoke. Malcolm was awake; his movements had roused
me. He was still confused from the effects of the opiate, and was gazing wildly around the
apartment. After taking a heavy draught of the water, he became quite collected. I rose, and
we entered the larger part of the cottage, where the mother and daughter were busy preparing
breakfast. After the usual salutations, and an apology for the badness of our lodging, I inquired
how far we were from Largs, and was informed it was about three miles from where we were. Feeling
myself much indisposed, and threatened with a severe cold, I resolved to return home as direct
as I could, not choosing to run the risk of any more such adventures. I despatched Malcolm
to the inn, to prevent the horses being sent off to Dumbarton, and to bring them as quick as
possible to where I now was. During his stay, I became more and more interested in the gentle
Mary. She was not in the least embarrassed, as she thought that I was unconscious of what had
passed through the night. I felt it would be a cruel return for her kindness to mention it,
and alarm her fears for her lover, for such I supposed him to be. I could have gained no object
by doing so. I already knew, from what I had heard, that she was connected with a band of smugglers,
whose calling she loathed.

There was a firmness of purpose, mixed with her gentleness, displayed during the time the band
and their captain were in the house, which shewed I could gain no information as to them, from
her; neither did I feel any anxiety to know more than I did, or ever to be in their company
again. Had I had the wish to give information of the lawless band, I could only inform as to
the females; the others had managed so well I could not have identified one of them.

At length my horses arrived, and I prepared to depart. As I took my leave, I put five guineas
into the hand of Mary. She looked at the sum, then at me, and refused to accept any remuneration
for our shelter.

"Keep it," said I, "to enable you to induce James to quit his dangerous trade." She blushed,
trembled, and then became pale as death. My heart smote me for what I had said. She gave me
such an anxious, imploring look, as her trembling lips murmured--

"Oh, what shall I do?"

"Fear nothing, Mary, from me; I owe you much more for your goodness of heart. If you and James
will come to reside near Allan Gow, he shall do all in his power to assist you." Amidst blessings
from the mother, and the silent gratitude of the daughter, I rode off, on my way to Glasgow,
and on the following day was under my parents' roof.

It is now many years since then. James and Mary are settled in the neighbourhood, and prosperous.
Malcolm is still with me; but whether servant or companion, I can scarce tell at times. When
my strange imaginations come upon me--for I have never been, for any length of time free from
them--he is almost master of my small establishment.

THE YOUNG LAIRD.[5]

In one of the midland counties of Scotland lies the estate of Sir Patrick Felspar. On this
estate, and on the southern declivity of a moderately-high hill, stood, about thirty years
ago, two old-fashioned farmsteads, called Nettlebank and Sunnybraes, of which, as we have a
long story to tell, we can only say that the former--being the largest--was tenanted by Mr.
Black, and the latter by William Chrighton; that the family of the one consisted of a boy and
a girl called Gilbert and Nancy; and that the other was the father of an only son, named George.

The harvest had been concluded, and preparations were making for lifting the potato crop, when
Mrs. Black was taken ill of a fever; and her husband, on discovering that she was seriously
indisposed, after sending the servant girl to "tell Elspeth Roger that her mistress wished
to speak with her," left the house, to which he did not return for several days. Elspeth, who
was the wife of one of the farm servants, being thus sent for, hastened to her mistress's presence.
On entering the room, and seeing the state of the sufferer, she saw at once that a sick nurse
was indispensable; and, though she had herself a husband and two children to attend to, and,
consequently, could be but ill spared from her own house, she readily offered her services,
and was accepted.

By her advice, medical assistance was immediately procured; and the kind-hearted matron continued
to attend the sick-bed of her mistress, night and day, for three weeks, during which period
Mr. Black was seldom at home. Hitherto, the doctor had entertained hopes of his patient's recovery;
but, on the eighteenth day, to Elspeth's anxious inquiries, he only shook his head, and bade
her "not be surprised whatever should happen." His words were deemed ominous: a messenger was
despatched to bring Mr. Black home; and, on the following day, his wife died. Upon this sad
occasion, Nancy seemed to be the only real mourner; for, though her father and brother hung
their heads, and looked demure for a day or two, even the semblance of sorrow vanished before
the exciting potations which they swallowed at the dregy.[6] Nancy, however, did feel the loss
of her mother, and mourned it as deeply as her young heart could. And, as she had been oftener
than once rebuked with great severity by her remaining parent, for what he called her blubbering,
when grief overcame her she frequently sought a hiding place for her tears in the house of
Elspeth, who, with the heart and the feelings of her sex, shared the sorrows of the poor girl
while she strove to alleviate them. But she was soon deprived of this refuge; for, in a few
days after the funeral, Elspeth, who had probably caught the infection while attending the
deathbed of her mistress, found herself in the grasp of the same terrible disease which had
carried her mistress off; and Nancy, to avoid the same fate, was debarred from entering the
door of her humble friend and only comforter.

On such occasions, to have one who will listen patiently to a recital of our sorrows, and respond
to them with a sigh, a look of sympathy, a tear, or a word, in which the tone of the voice
bespeaks a reciprocity of feeling, is comfort, and almost the only comfort of which the case
admits; for the lengthened speech and the studied harangue, containing, as they are supposed
to do, "the words of consolation," often fall upon the ear without reaching the heart. Such
a comforter Nancy Black found in George Chrighton, or, as he was universally termed, the laddie
Geordie. This boy, who was one of her schoolfellows, and nearly of her own age, attracted by
her sorrowful looks and the tears which sometimes stole down her cheeks, left the boisterous
sports of the other boys, and devoted his hours of play to walking with her, or sitting in
some retired corner, and listening to her little "tale of wo." Hitherto, the roads by which
they came and went had been different; but now he discovered a new one, by following which
he could accompany her till within a short distance of Nettlebank; and, at the place where
they had separated in the evening, he always waited for her appearance on the next morning.
Youthful friendships are soon formed. Ere disappointment has done its work, and experience
taught its salutary, though painful lesson, there is little room for suspicion on either side,
and the hearts of the parties amalgamate, like meeting waters. Thus, the two became friends,
almost before they could understand the meaning of the word.

While Nancy Black and her boyish companion were thus forming an affection for each other, as
pure, and certainly as deep, as any which ever subsisted between persons of their years, Elspeth
Roger was lying dangerously ill. But her sickness was not "unto death:" and, after being confined
for twenty-four days, during which her life had been several times despaired of by all who
saw her, she began to recover. Scarcely, however, was she able to move about, and bestow some
attention on their household concerns, when her husband began to complain; and, in a few hours,
he was laid upon that bed from which she had arisen, with all the symptoms of a most malignant
case of the same disease. Elspeth, who, in the midst of many struggles, and without the outward
show of more than ordinary affection, was attached to her husband, now became fixed to his
bedside. Forgetting the weakness consequent on her own imperfect recovery, and fearful of allowing
hands less careful than her own to approach him, she attended him, night and day, with a solicitude
which none save those who have all they value in the world at stake, can comprehend. Medical
advice was promptly procured. But, in spite of medical skill, tender nursing, and tears shed
apart, David Roger died. Of Elspeth's grief upon this occasion, it were superfluous to speak.
Suffice it that, after many years had passed by, the general expression of her countenance,
and the tear which occasionally stole down her cheek at the mention of his name, showed that
she had not forgotten the husband of her youth.

Though this event must have been distressing to the widow, her distress was aggravated when,
on the second day from that on which her husband had been interred, Mr. Black told her that,
"as he had engaged another servant, and required his house, she must remove at the term." The
first week of November was now past; the term was on the 22d of that month; every house in
the neighbourhood was either occupied, or already let for the coming year; and this information
came to the heart of Elspeth like a thunder-shock. It was what she had never dreamed of, and
never thought of providing for. For herself, she might have been careless; but when she reflected
on her children, the feelings of the mother awoke in her bosom, and made her, for the time,
superior to despair. Day after day, she went in quest of a hovel to shelter them from the rigour
of the coming winter, and night after night she returned without having found one. It seemed
as if Heaven had determined to make her a houseless wanderer; for not a single untenanted habitation
could she hear of. But we must leave her to pursue her fruitless search, and attend, for a
little, to what was going on elsewhere.

One evening, after George Chrighton had returned from school, without taking time to snatch
his accustomed morsel of bread from the aumry, he inquired for his father, and hurried off
in quest of him. Having discovered the object of his search in the stack-yard--"Father," cried
the boy, as soon as he was within ear-shot, "hae ye heard that Mr. Black intends to make Elspeth
Roger flit at the term; an' she canna get a house for hersel an' her bairns in a' the country?"

"I did hear she was gaun to flit," said the old man, composedly; "but whatfor canna she get
a house?"

"I dinna ken," was the boy's eager reply; "but she's been seekin ane this aught days, an mair;
an' Nan Black says, if somebody doesna help her, she maun tak her twa bairns, an' gang an'
beg.--Noo, faither, could we no do something? There's our auld barn: I would mak the clay-cats,[7]
an' we might pit up a lum; an' I would help Jock to howk a hole i' the wa', an' it wouldna
tak muckle to get a windock; an'--an'--I've forgotten what I was gaun to say; but I'm sure
we can pit up the lum; an' the woman canna lie out by."

"I daresay ye're richt, laddie," said his father, after raising his hat, and scratching the
hinder part of his head for a few seconds. "The auld barn micht do. There's some bits o' sticks
lyin at the end o' the byre, an' some auld nails i' the stable--as mony o' baith as would be
required, I believe. Jock could bring a cartfu o' clay the nicht yet--he could mak the cats
the morn; ye micht bide at hame a day frae the school, an' carry them in; an' I could pit up
the lum mysel."

"But it would need a hallan too, faither," rejoined George.

"Hoot ay," said his father, "it would need a hallan, an' a hantle things forby; an', after
a' has been done that we can do, the place will be but little, an' unco inconvenient; but it'll
aye be a hole to shelter her an' her bairnies frae the drift, afore they can get a better.
An', e'en though the scheme had been less feasible than it is, it maks my heart glad to see
that--laddie as ye are--ye hae a thought for ither folk's distress."

"Na," interrupted George, "na, faither; it wasna me--it was Nan Black spoke about it first,
an' I only promised to tell ye."

"Weel, weel, laddie," rejoined the other, "I'm glad to hear that Nan Black, as ye ca' her,
is likely to turn out a better woman, if she be spared, than ever her faither was a man--but,
as he has a' his actions to account for, of him I would say naething." With these words, the
worthy farmer was about to resume his labours, when his son, flushed with the success of his
plan, exclaimed--

"But will we no tell her, faither? Her mind canna be at ease afore she ken about some place."

"That's weel minded too," said the father--"she's maybe gotten a house already; but, in case
she hasna, gang ye owre to your mither, an' tell her I bade ye get a piece; an', when ye've
gotten it, ye can rin yont, some time afore it be dark, an' see a' about it. An' ye can tell
her that, if she likes, she's welcome to our auld barn, for a year; an', if she taks it, we's
no fa' oot about the rent."

Though George obeyed his father so far as to go the length of the house door, he could not
find time to go in for his promised piece; and, without opening it, he turned, and set off
at the top of his speed in the direction of Nettlebank.

Return we now to the widow's cottage. The poor woman was far from having recovered, when she
was called upon to attend the deathbed of her husband. The fatigue, terror, anxiety, and want
of rest, from which she had suffered during that period, might have been sufficient to break
down even the strongest constitution. When to these are added weeks of wandering in quest of
a habitation, the reader will hardly be surprised when he is told that her animal strength
was gone--her spirits sunk, and despair seemed to be closing around her. With a frame completely
worn out, a head which ached, blistered feet, and, we might almost add, a "bleeding heart,"
she sat by her fire one evening--her head resting on her hand, and her eyes fixed upon her
children, while sighs convulsed her bosom. She wished to commit her little ones to the care
of their Maker; but such was the state of her mind, that she fancied she could not perform
even this duty, and the thought called forth another and a deeper sigh. While she was thus
employed, Nancy Black opened the door unperceived, and, standing at her side, awoke her from
her dream of despondency by saying, in a half whispering, half faltering voice--"Elspeth, dinna
break your heart. I think I ken where you'll get a house, noo. I was speaking about you, the
day, to Geordie Chrighton, at the school, an' he says they could soon mak a house o' their
auld barn; and that his faither will never hesitate"----

To this the mother was listening, and almost thinking the news too good for being true, when
the speaker was interrupted by some one coming against the inner door of the apartment with
such force as nearly to break it. On hearing the noise, the widow rose to give the stranger
admittance; but he waited not for her services. Putting one hand to his nose--the part which
had produced the noise--and the other to the latch, before another second had elapsed, George
Chrighton stood in the middle of the floor, panting from the rapidity of his march; and, without
taking time to recover breath, he began to deliver his message by saying--"Elspeth, my father
sent me owre to tell ye that, if ye want a house, ye may get our auld barn. Jock's to bring
a cartful o' clay--he's to mak the cats the morn; I'm to bide at hame frae the school, an'
carry them in; an' my faither's to put up the lum. An'--what is't I was gaun to say?--ou ay--tak
it--tak it, Elspeth; an', if he'll no gie ye it for naething, I'll keep a' the bawbees I get,
to help ye to pay for't." Here he paused, fairly out of breath. The substance of his message,
however, was delivered, and he now stood silent, and almost fearful of hearing that she had
already got a house.

The widow, bewildered by her own feelings, the excited manner of the boy, and the intelligence
which he brought, was also silent. Nor was it till Nancy Black had whispered, "It's true enough--Geordie
never tells lies," that she recollected it was her part to make a reply.

Hitherto the boy had not been aware of the presence of his schoolfellow; but no sooner had
he heard her voice, than his eye brightened, and he turned as if to seek the reward of his
labours from her; and--girl as she was--he found it in her approving smile. But that smile
was of short duration; for as soon as she had a full view of his face, it passed away, and,
hurrying toward him, she exclaimed, in an anxious tone--"What ails you, Geordie? What's that
on your upper lip, an' your chin?"

"What is't?" repeated the youngster, drawing the back of his hand across the place alluded
to, as if to ascertain if anything was wrong in that quarter; and then, examining the hand
so employed, he continued--"What is't? It's bluid; but where it comes frae I canna tell." After
a short pause, during which he recollected the opposition he had met from the door--"It's my
nose--it's just my nose," he added, laughing as he spoke, to free the heart of Nancy from those
apprehensions, the shade of which he saw gathering on her countenance. "I didna ken the door
was steekit afore my nose played crack on the sneck--and noo it's bluidin."

Sure enough, his nose was bleeding, and had been so ever since he came in, though unobserved.
The attention of the widow and Nancy was instantly directed to staunch the bleeding: the latter
brought the key from the outer door, and the former placed it between his shoulders, bathing
his temples at the same time with cold water. In a few minutes the blood ceased to flow, and,
after his face had been washed, Nancy's smile returned.

When they were about to depart, the widow, taking one in each hand, and drawing them close
together, said--"May God bless ye baith, my bonny bairns! An', in his ain way an' time, He
will bless ye; for, when men and women had forsaken me, an' my heart was sinking in despair,
ye have provided a hame for the widow and the faitherless. May His blessing rest on ye, an'
may He be your friend when ither friends forsake you!"

The clay-cats were made, and carried in, in the manner proposed; the lum was constructed, and
the old barn made as commodious as possible; and, in a few days after, Elspeth and her two
children came to inhabit it. But though it was only intended for a temporary residence, when
a twelvemonth had passed, she did not leave it. She had made herself useful in many ways to
the farmer, by assisting him with his farm-work; and, as both felt loath to part, she became
a sort of fixture on the farm of Sunnybraes.

There is still one circumstance connected with her removal, which must be noticed. Mr. Black,
in general, did little to deserve commendation; but he could not endure the idea of any one
becoming more popular than himself; and, as William Chrighton was warmly praised for his conduct
in this affair, he soon began to regard him with a feeling which was more akin to deep-rooted
hatred than ill-will.

We now pass over a period of six years, during which nothing of importance occurred--save that
those who, at the commencement of this period, had been mere infants, were now boys and girls;
those who had been boys and girls, were now men and women; and of those who had then been men
and women, many were now in their graves. Nor of those who remained had a single individual
escaped, without having undergone some change. In some, the gaiety of youth had been exchanged
for the thoughtful expression of maturer years; upon the foreheads of others, grey hairs were
seen where glossy ringlets were wont to wave; the rosy hue which had once adorned the cheek,
was now broken into streaks; and on brows formerly smooth, the handwriting of care was now visible.

About this time, Sir Patrick Felspar, after being absent for a number of years, paid a short
visit to his tenants. On coming to Sunnybraes, and expressing himself highly satisfied with
William Chrighton's manner of farming and general management, that individual thought it a
favourable opportunity for introducing Elspeth and her two children to his notice. The story
seemed to affect him, and he immediately proposed taking the boy into his own service. This
proposal was agreed to; and, at his departure, Sandy Roger accompanied him to London, where
we must leave him.

George Chrighton, though only a schoolboy when we last noticed him, was now a stout-looking,
well-built young man, rather above the middle size, and, for some time past, he had been his
father's only assistant at Sunnybraes. Nor was the change which had been produced on Nancy
Black less conspicuous. From being a mere girl, in the course of six years she had become a
beautiful maiden, in the last of her teens, and with a natural modesty, which, though it added
greatly to her other charms, almost unfitted her for the situation she occupied in her father's
household. Of this youthful pair, it was generally surmised in the neighbourhood, that the
attachment which had begun in their school days, had "grown with their growth, and strengthened
with their strength," till it had ripened into love.

Such surmises have often been made before, upon occasions where there was not even the shadow
of a foundation for them. But, in the present instance, the gossips and tattlers were not so
far wrong; for the two were really lovers, though, from the implacable temper of Mr. Black,
they found it necessary to conceal their affection; and, for two years more, in as far as an
open confession is concerned, they did conceal it. They were not, however, wholly without their
"stolen interviews," which, though "few and far between," with the additional disadvantage
of being short, were, in this case, sufficient to keep the flame alive. They also found means
of occasionally exchanging notices of each other upon paper--that dernier resort of all unfortunate
lovers.

Catherine Roger, who had hitherto been thought and spoken of as the lassie Kate, was now beginning
to expand into the young woman, and--smitten with her charms, as wise people began to suppose--Andrew
Sharp, one of Mr. Black's farm-servants, had, of late, become rather a regular visitor at her
mother's. At first, he came with a quantity of worsted, "to see if she would knit a pair of
stockings for him;" next, he "came to see if she would darn the heels of a pair of stockings;"
and, by and by, he sometimes ventured to "come owre, just to speer for her." While his business
was thus, to all appearance, exclusively with the mother, he frequently found an opportunity
of stealing a look at the daughter, or, more fortunate still, of exchanging a word with her,
as if by the by. It is probable, however, that the former--

    "Wi' a woman's wyles, could spy
    What made the youth sae bashfu an' sae grave;"

and, whatever her fears might be, there is no reason to doubt that she was

    "Weel pleased to see her bairn respected like the lave."

Andrew, though young, was by no means deficient in shrewdness; he was naturally of an obliging
turn--a quiet conscientious lad--a great favourite with his young mistress, and he was sometimes
made the bearer of those paper messengers which went between the lovers.

The leases of both farms were now within a year of being out, and both the farmers had begun
to use what interest they could to have them renewed. As to the success of William Chrighton,
those who pretended to see farther than their neighbours, shook their heads, and seemed uncertain;
but of Mr. Black being successful, no one seemed to entertain the smallest doubt. Sir Patrick,
of late, had left the management of those matters wholly to his factor, Mr. Goosequill; and,
in the esteem of this individual, Mr. Black now stood deservedly high. Scarcely a month had
been allowed to pass, for the last two years, without a present of poultry, eggs, butter, or
cheese being sent from Nettlebank to the factor. Upon these occasions, Gilbert was commonly
the bearer, and he always stayed over night, and either drank toddy with the representative
of the laird, or poured flatteries into the ear of Miss Grizzy, his daughter. At these doings,
far-sighted people shook their heads again, and said that Mr. Black's hens were never sold
in a rainy day, except to serve some purpose, and darkly hinted at the possibility of his taking
both farms.

Shortly after these matters began to be agitated, the old knight died, and was succeeded by
his son, who had always been spoken of on the estate as the young laird. It was further understood
that the young Sir Patrick had been abroad for the last nine months; and, according to the
accounts which were circulated, he was not expected home for several months to come. This circumstance
afforded an excuse to Mr. Goosequill for declining to renew the lease of Sunnybraes, as he
alleged that he could not do so till he had positive instructions from the young laird to that
effect. At the end of four months, a letter from Sandy Roger informed his mother that Sir Patrick
had returned to London shortly after his father's death; and, since his return, that he had
treated him with a degree of kindness such as he had never expected to experience from a master.
The game was now up; and the factor, finding that it was so, despatched the following letter
to the laird:--

     "SIR,--As you have been graciously pleased to continue that trust
     which your much-lamented father was pleased to repose in me--a
     trust which, from my knowledge of local affairs, I hope I shall be
     able to discharge with honour to myself and advantage to you--and
     as the leases of your farms of Nettlebank and Sunnybraes expire at
     Martinmas ensuing, I should hold myself wanting in that interest
     which I have ever felt for the prosperity of the family, if I did
     not acquaint you of the following particulars. William Chrighton,
     the present tenant of Sunnybraes, has now made application to have
     the lease of that farm renewed; but, as he is a man of no
     substance, belongs to the old school, is incapable of conducting
     improvements upon an extensive scale, and merely struggles on from
     year to year, I have declined to give him any answer till I should
     know what was your pleasure thereanent. I have also received an
     offer for the said farm from Mr. Black, bearing an advance of rent.
     This gentleman is in a thriving way; he has a turn for business,
     and everything prospers with him; he has extensive connections,
     and, what is of more importance to the present purpose, he has a
     son of age to take the management of a farm, who is an excellent
     agriculturist. Mr. Black proposes to take both farms--Nettlebank at
     the old rent, and the other at an advance; and, if his offers are
     accepted, I have no hesitation in saying that he will soon improve
     this portion of your estate to a great extent. I would therefore
     recommend him to your notice. Hoping that that knowledge of local
     affairs which I have acquired from long experience, may still be of
     some service to you, I am, Sir, your very humble servant,

                                             "GAVIN GOOSEQUILL."

To this communication, the factor, in due time, received the following laconic reply:--

     "Sir,--I thank you for your friendly advice, and the attention to
     my concerns which you manifest; but, as it is my wish that the old
     tenants should remain, you may let Messrs. Chrighton and Henderson
     have their farms at the old rent, if they choose.--Yours,

                                                   "P. FELSPAR."

This entirely disconcerted the schemes of these friends. Mr. Henderson was the tenant who had
been in Nettlebank before Mr. Black; and the young laird, who had not been in Scotland since
he was four years of age, as yet knew nothing of his having left it. Gavin Goosequill felt
rather at a loss how to proceed; but, recollecting that "in the multitude of counsellers there
is safety," he determined to consult Mr. Black, and, for this purpose, paid a visit to Nettlebank.
What was the result of this consultation is not exactly known; but, as Mr. Black shook hands
with the factor, and was about to bid him "good night," Andrew Sharp, who stood waiting with
the horse, heard the latter say--"Well, I think we have it after all. I shall delay matters
as long as I can, and then write, recommending farther delay; this will give us time to do
something, and, if I am not deceived, both will be yours in the end."

The oracular words "do something," and "both will be yours," made an impression on Andrew's
mind. When he reflected on the expiration of the leases, the character of his master, and the
surmises which he had heard, he felt convinced that the first part of the factor's speech had
a reference to the farms, while the last part of it implied some plot, which was hatching,
to forward their schemes. This conviction suggested the probability that William Chrighton
would not be allowed to remain in Sunnybraes; and, as his removal must be attended with the
removal of Catherine Roger, to he knew not how great a distance, he felt somewhat spiritless
and disconcerted. Time seemed to stand still; and, after ruminating for a season on the means
of averting such a misfortune, he took a pair of stockings, and, having placed them on the
hearthstone of his bothie--no one being present--he proceeded to pound that part of them called
the heels with the head of the poker. By this means, he soon produced something very like a
worn hole in each; and then, taking them under his arm, and putting a quantity of worsted into
his pocket, he set off to Sunnybraes to get them darned. When there, as his "dulness" did not
leave him so quickly as he had anticipated, and as he was, moreover, loath to sit silent in
the presence of one whose good opinion he was so anxious to procure, while Elspeth was darning
the stockings, he told Catherine the whole story--what he had heard the factor say, and the
conclusions and inferences which he had drawn therefrom--taking care, however, neither to mention
his "dulness," nor the manner in which he had produced the holes in the heels of his stockings.

"Weel, lassie," said Elspeth when he was gone, "frae what we ken aboot Mr. Black, the thing's
clear enough. He's lookin after Sunnybraes for his muckle gomeril o' a son; an', if Gavin Goosequill
can get it for him, by hook or by crook, by lies or by true tales, he'll no want it lang. The
hens, an' the jucks, an' the geese, an' the turkeys, that gaed frae Nettlebank, hae done their
errand weel enough, I warrant them; an' noo we maun try to do oors--at least, we maun try--to
help them that hae been helpers to baith you an' me."

"But hoo can we help them, mither?" inquired Catherine, with a look of surprise--"what can we do?"

"I'll tell ye what we can do, lassie," rejoined her mother; "the young laird will never hear
a word o' truth aboot either his farmers or his farms. It's easy for Gavin Goosequill to stap
his head as fu' o' lies as it can haud; an', when this is done, it's but saying that the laird
wants Mr. Black to get baith the farms; an' syne, Mr. Chrighton, an' you an' me too, maun flit.
Noo, as your brither, Sandy, is the young laird's servant, ye maun e'en try if ye can write
a letter to him, an' tell him o' a' this ongaun. Though it's no very weel written, he'll maybe
mak oot to read it; an', if he's no sair changed since he left his mother an' his hame, he'll
tell the laird the truth."

Catherine was ready to comply with her mother's proposal. A letter was accordingly written;
and, after being closed with a piece of shoemakers' rosin, instead of wax, and supplied with
an address by George Chrighton, it was, on the following day, put in the post-office. In about
three weeks from the date of this letter, though no answer was returned to it, Mr. Goosequill
received the following note from the laird, which appears to have been an answer to another
communication of his.

     "DEAR SIR,--I have received yours of the 1st August; and I am now
     convinced that the affair requires delay and serious consideration.
     I shall endeavour to turn your advice to some account; and, in the
     meantime, you need give yourself no farther trouble about the
     letting of the farms.--Yours,                    P. FELSPAR.

     "P.S.--You may assure the tenants that neither of them will suffer
     injustice at my hands."

Things now appeared favourable; but, as Mr. Goosequill seldom trusted more to appearances than
was necessary, he took an early opportunity of calling upon William Chrighton, to say that
"he believed any farther application on his part for the farm would be useless, and must only
tend to irritate the laird." He hinted, farther, that, if Sir Patrick should raise an action
against him, he might get heavy damages for the bad repair in which the steading then was.
After having expended a good deal of learning and law-Latin in illustrating this subject, Mr.
Goosequill concluded, by saying, that, so far as he could judge from his last communication,
and as Sir Patrick was a proud man, and could not endure to be thwarted in his plans, the best
course he could adopt was, simply, to pay his rent, and quit the farm at Martinmas.

To these proposals the old farmer demurred. "I have always paid my rent on rent-day," said
he; "I have made many improvements upon the farm to enable me to pay that rent; and for the
steading, though I am not bound to keep it in repair, by building a new barn and cart-sheds,
at my own expense, I have made it worth at least sixty pounds more than it was at the beginning
of the tack. Now," continued he, "I can see no reason the laird can have for being irritated
at me for endeavouring to keep possession of the farm on which I was born, and on which I have
lived till I am growing an old man."

"You may do as you please," said Mr. Goosequill, gravely--"only I have warned you; and, if
you are determined to persist, you may save yourself the trouble of writing; for I have Sir
Patrick's authority for saying that he is coming down to Scotland to settle these matters himself."

Having thus counselled, he adjourned to Nettlebank, where he no doubt counselled more; but
through this labyrinth we shall not follow him. Only Andrew Sharp, who again brought out his
horse, heard him say, as he was about to depart, "Well, I think I have the old scrub for the
new barn, and, in the meantime, Mr. Gilbert, who is really a smart lad, must try to do a little."

"Fear not for him," rejoined the other; "he knows what he is working for--Miss Grizzy's fair
face is worth wanting an hour's sleep for ony time."

Many of our readers will still recollect the disastrous harvest of 1817: October was begun
before harvest-work commenced at all; and, after it did commence, day after day the rain poured
down as if the sky had been an ocean supported by a sieve. It was after an evening of storm
and darkness had succeeded to one of these distressing days, that a stranger arrived at Nettlebank,
and requested lodgings for the night. The servant girl, who opened the door, said, "She wouldna
let him in, but she would tell her master." Her master accordingly came, and, without ceremony,
told him to begone, for he harboured no wandering vagabonds about his town.

The stranger attempted to plead his ignorance of the country and the darkness of the night,
as excuses for being allowed to remain; but Mr. Black cut him short, by telling him, in a tone
which was distinctly heard at the farthest corner of the house, to march off, or he would instantly
unchain the house-dog and set loose the terriers, and let them make a supper of him. Oaths
and abusive language followed; but the stranger did not wait to hear more. He had proceeded
as far as the corner of the garden wall, where a wicket gate communicated with the front door,
and was muttering vengeance to himself, when he was accosted by Nancy.

"I am sorry," said she, "we cannot give you lodgings for the night--my father is so passionate;
but here is something to help you on your journey." The stranger seemed unwilling to take the
shilling, which she was attempting to put into his hand. "It is hardly worth your acceptance,"
said she; "but it is all I have at present. I cannot tell how much I feel on your account--exposed
as you have been to the rain. But, as this is no night for a stranger to be abroad in, only
come with me a few steps, till I can procure a guide to conduct you to the next farm, where
you will find shelter."

"The farmer of the next farm may perhaps treat me like the farmer of this--and what then?"
inquired the stranger, whose wrath had not yet altogether subsided.

"God forbid!" was Nancy's reply; "but he will not--I know he will not." She then led the way
to a low door, through the seams of which light was visible, and, tapping gently, pronounced
the word "Andrew." As soon as the door was opened--"Here is a stranger," said she, addressing
the young man who acted as porter; "and when I grow richer I will endeavour to reward you,
if you would get your greatcoat and shew him the road; or rather go with him to Sunnybraes,
and tell them he wants lodgings for the night"--then, lowering her voice almost to a whisper,
and drawing closer as she spoke, she added--"and, if they seem to hesitate, draw George aside,
and tell him I sent you." The lad was hastening to obey his mistress's orders, when she called
after him, "Stay--I had forgot--bring a greatcoat for him also."

The stranger, who had now caught a full view of her in the light which issued from the open
door, thought he had seldom seen a fairer face or a finer form, and, wet as he was, he felt
a wish to cultivate her acquaintance by farther conversation; but she gave him no time; for,
almost before the last word was spoken, she disappeared.--"Tell George!" muttered he, as he
listened to her retiring footsteps--"this is something, however."

At Sunnybraes, Andrew found his young mistress's provisionary clause altogether unnecessary;
for, no sooner had he announced his errand, than the old farmer rose to make way for the stranger:
"Get up, George," said he to his son; "an' you, Meg," turning to his wife, "lift out owre your
wheel, an' let the poor lad in by to the fire. An' d'ye hear?--if ever whisky did mortal creature
guid, it maun be on a night like this; sae, though I drink nane mysel, gang ye and gie him
a glass."

The stranger was accordingly placed by the fire, and a glass was brought; but still it was
considered that, as he must be drenched to the skin, a shift of clothes would be necessary.
On this proposal being made, Mrs. Chrighton cast a significant look, first at her son, and
then at her husband:--

"Hoot, woman," cried the latter, interpreting her look, "bring the duds, an', if ye hae ony
fear about them, the lassie Kate can gie ye a help to wash them, some weety day. An' weety
days are like to be owre rife noo, for ony guid they're doin.--Our guidewife," he continued,
addressing their guest, "has aye been fear'd for infectious diseases since a beggar-wife brought
the fever to the town mair than fourteen years back. But, though ye had five-and-twenty fevers--ay,
fifty o' them--that's no enough to let you get your death o' cauld wi thae weet claes on; sae
ye maun e'en consent to shift yoursel."

The stranger's language was a strange mixture of the best English and the broadest Scotch;
and this circumstance, after exciting a degree of surprise in the minds of all, induced the
guidwife to make some indirect inquiries concerning his profession and station in society.

"I've been thinkin ye're no just a here-a-wa man, by your tongue," said she; "an', if I'm no
mista'en, ye've seen better days; for, when I was bringin butt your wet claes to get them dried,
though your bit jacket an' your breeks were just corduroy, I couldna help noticin that there
is no a bit bonnier linen inowre our door than the sark ye had on."

To these observations it seemed as if the stranger scarce knew how to reply--he passed his
hand across his brow, and was silent for some seconds. But, on recovering himself, he told
them that his name was Duncan Cowpet--that he had been born in Scotland, but his parents had
removed to England when he was very young--that he had lately been a traveller for a house
in London, but his master being now dead, and himself out of employment, he had thought of
visiting his native country; he added that, though his dress was rather plain, he was not destitute
of money, and concluded by offering to pay them for the trouble they had already been at on
his account, and also for his night's lodging.

"Na, na," said the old farmer, his eyes brightening as he spoke, "we never took payment for
sheltering the head of a houseless stranger, nor will we noo. But ye were sayin that ye're
out o' employment; as this is a backward season, an' we have a hantle to do, an' mair than
a', as I'm turned frail and feckless mysel, an' unco sair fashed wi' rheumatisms, I've been
thinkin if ye could consent to stay an' help us for a owk or twa, maybe ye would be nae waur,
an' we could gie you as guid wages as ony ither body."

To this proposal Duncan offered no objection, only he wished to stipulate for a bed in the
house, as, he said, he had never been accustomed to lie in barns; and, as a guarantee that
he would neither injure their property, nor run off without giving them notice, he offered
to place five guineas in the hands of the guidman--remarking, that it was all the ready money
he had about him. "And as to wages," he continued, "I wull ask no more than what you wull think
I work for." The five guineas were accepted, not as a guarantee for his good behaviour, but
that they might be in safe keeping. He was given to understand that he might have them at any
time; and, when the family retired to rest, he was accommodated with a bed in the house.

On the following morning, which happened to be fair, he was employed in the labours of the
season; and, though he manifested an uncommon degree of awkwardness, George Chrighton, who
was his fellow bandster, did everything in his power to instruct and assist him in his new
profession; so that he succeeded in performing his part of the labour till breakfast time.
After this meal had been despatched, as each youngster drew closer to his favourite lass, Duncan,
following the example thus set before him, began to attach himself to Catherine Roger, who,
though the youngest, and perhaps the fairest, seemed to have no sweetheart present. But Catherine,
though thus left alone, was far from encouraging his attentions; and, with great dexterity,
she contrived, during what remained of the breakfast hour, always to keep her mother's person
between her and him--thus defeating his strong inclination to imitate the conduct of some of
his fellow-labourers, by placing his arm around her neck.

On rising to recommence the labours of the day, Duncan found that his hands were blistered,
and that it would be extremely difficult for him to resume his work; but George again assisted
him, by inquiring if any of the lasses would be so kind as come and dress the injured parts.
Catherine, notwithstanding her former coyness, was the first to obey. Bounding, with a light
step, to her small repository of bandages and thread, she was back in a moment; and, spreading
a small quantity of a very healing ointment, which her mother had previously prepared, upon
a piece of linen cloth, she applied it to the part where the skin was beginning to peel off,
with the dexterity of an experienced surgeon, and, having fastened it with a bandage drawn
sufficiently tight, she was at her work again before Duncan could move his lips to thank her.
He was now offered a pair of gloves, and with them, and the soothing nature of the ointment,
his labour was less painful than he had anticipated, till their operations were interrupted
by the rain.

Frosty mornings and rainy days, with short intervals of fair weather, succeeded each other.
When in the field, Duncan had always an opportunity of seeing Catherine; but, though he really
did endeavour to ingratiate himself in her favour, she still dexterously contrived to eschew
all his attentions. He was not in love with her; but he felt attached to her by the same sort
of feeling with which one regards a beautiful picture, or any other object which delights the
senses. The symmetry of her form, the brilliancy of her complexion, and the lustre of her eyes,
excited his admiration; and, in the absence of other objects, drew his attention. In this state
of mind, he frequently puzzled his brains to account for the strangeness of her manners; and,
one evening, shortly after his arrival, he resolved to introduce himself to her mother; if,
peradventure, his so doing might throw some light upon the subject. With this intention, he
had passed the little window, and was approaching the door, when he heard a chair overturned
and a noise within, as if some one had fled to the farther end of the house in great confusion.
This induced him to listen for a moment; and, while thus listening, he heard Elspeth exclaim--

"What i' the warld's come owre the lassie noo!--whaur hae ye run till, Kate? Na, I never saw
the like o' that! The sark ye was mendin at, lyin i' the aise-hole, an' a red cinder aboon't!--if
I hadna grippit it, it might hae been a' in a lowe lang afore ye cam to look for't; an' Andrew
would only gotten a pouchfu o' aise to tak hame wi' him on Saturday nicht, instead of a sark."
Duncan was no eavesdropper; but his curiosity was strongly excited by what he had heard, and
he could neither go in nor drag himself with sufficient speed from the door.

As Elspeth was concluding her ejaculations, the frightened damsel returned, and was heard to
say, in a suppressed tone--"O mither, dinna be angry--I thought I saw Duncan Cowpet come past
the window, an' I ran to be out o' his gait. I canna bide him; his een's never off me the hail
day, an' mony a time I dinna ken whar to look."

"Hoot, lassie," rejoined her mother; "ye aye mak bogles o' windlestraes. Duncan is an honest
lad, I'll warrant him, an' willin to work, too, though he's no very guid o't. But, for a' that,
dinna think that I want ye to draw up wi' him; for I wouldna hae ye to gie ony encouragement
to anither man on earth, as lang as Andrew Sharp pays mair respect to you than the lave. But
only tak my advice--neither rin awa when ye see Duncan coming, nor seem to notice his attentions
when he comes, and he'll soon bestow them on some ither body."

"I'll rather cut my finger for an excuse to bide at hame, though, afore I gang to the field
when he's there," was Catherine's half-pettish reply.

"Confound ye if ye do ony sic thing!" cried her mother: "though Sandy pays the house-rent,
noo, recollect the guidman can ill spare ony o' his shearers when the weather is fair."

Duncan stood to hear no more; if he had formerly admired Catherine for her beauty, he now respected
her for the principles upon which she acted, and he wished for an opportunity to convince her
that he too could act a disinterested part. On the following day, his conduct was such as to
free her mind from most of those disagreeable feelings which hitherto she had entertained;
and, when he repeated his visit in the evening, though she again saw him pass the window, she
did not run away. After he was seated, he spoke of Andrew Sharp, and gratefully adverted to
his kindness in conducting him to Sunnybraes on an evening when few would have cared for venturing
abroad. Catherine's fears were now gone; she felt as if she could have died to serve the man
who spoke favourably of her lover; and the conversation was kept up with the greatest cordiality
upon all sides. Local affairs came to be discussed; and, as Duncan seemed curious to gain information
concerning the farms, and the character of the farmers in the neighbourhood, Elspeth, in her
endeavours to satisfy his curiosity, told him all she knew of Mr. Black and Mr. Goosequill,
with their supposed schemes for the ejectment of William Chrighton.

It was now the latter end of October, and still the harvest was far from being completed. The
watch-dog had died, and the horses began to exhibit symptoms of lameness, which were the more
distressing, that the securing of the crop depended entirely upon their ability to labour.
Two of the cattle were brought home, by the boy who herded them, in a diseased state, and the
same evening one of them died. On the following morning, one of the horses was found unable
to rise; and, before noon, he was dead also. It seemed as if the fates had conspired to ruin
the old farmer and his family; day after day, horses, cattle, and other live stock, sickened
and died; and, in a short time, he found himself without the means of prosecuting the labours
of so precarious a season, with any prospect of success. To add to his distress, a summons
was now served against him for fifty pounds, "which," as that document affirmed, "he still
owed, and had refused to pay to the creditors of Mr. Rickledyke, for the building of his barn,
&c." Mr. Rickledyke was the contractor who had been employed on this occasion; the whole of
the money had not been paid when he became bankrupt; and, though the old farmer was perfectly
certain that he had paid it, when he recollected that the bankrupt was a friend of Mr. Goosequill's,
and that the money had been paid in his office, he felt convinced that the whole was a trick,
intended to embarrass if not to ruin him. He recollected farther, that, as a stamp could not,
at the time, be obtained, for giving him a discharge, he had left the place without any voucher
for the payment of the debt, beyond the testimony of two witnesses who were now dead; and thus
he had no alternative but to pay it again.

The appearance of the law officers, at Sunnybraes, gave rise to a report, which was industriously
spread, that William Chrighton was either a bankrupt or about to become one; and every individual
who had the slightest claim upon him, came hurrying in with distraints and summonses; and,
to complete the catastrophe, on Saturday, about noon, Mr. Goosequill made his appearance, with
the proper assistants, and placed the whole of the crop, stocking, &c., on the farm of Sunnybraes,
under sequestration for the rent.

All hope of continuing in the farm was now at an end, and it only remained to make the most
of the wreck which was still left. On Sabbath morning, the sky had cleared; the wind shifted
about to the north, and, on the afternoon of the same day, a strong frost set in. The frost,
accompanied by a sharp breeze, continued throughout the evening, and, as soon as midnight was
past, the old man and his son prepared to embrace so favourable an opportunity for securing
a portion of the victual which was still exposed. While they were engaged in these preparations,
Duncan was left to the care of Mrs. Chrighton, who had been instructed to furnish him with
some warm meat, and a greatcoat. After these injunctions had been obeyed, as he sat by the
fire, while she stood over him with anxiety and distress depicted in her countenance--"O Duncan,"
said she, "it's a terrible thing for honest folk to be sae sair harassed. If lairds would only
look after their affairs themselves, instead of trusting them to factors, I'm sure it would
be better for a' parties. But it's a' owre with us, and there's naething noo but to tak some
cothouse, and the guidman maun e'en work in a ditch, and I maun spin for the morsel that supports
our lives. George, too, is so disgusted with the usage we have received, that he speaks of
going off to America. And Nancy Black--poor lassie! my heart is aye sair when I think about
her--they've had a likin for ane anither since they were bairns at the school, and, if things
had gane richt, they might been happy, and we might been comfortable; but that, like the rest
of our prospects, is at an end." Mrs. Chrighton's disjointed observations--particularly what
related to Nancy Black, were a mystery to Duncan; and, though he wished to have an explanation,
as the cart was now ready and he was called, he was obliged to console himself with the expectation
that time might enable him to discover their meaning.

When they reached the field, the moon was shining clear, the wind was blowing a stiff gale
from the north, and the sheaves of corn, where any moisture had attached to them, were frozen
as hard as iron. There was only one of the working horses now serviceable: to supply the place
of another, a colt had been that morning pressed into the service; but, owing to the awkwardness
of this animal, the cart was overturned and broken in such a manner as to render the assistance
of the smith necessary before it could be again used. Duncan Cowpet, who, notwithstanding his
unlucky name, had escaped unhurt, volunteered his services for this expedition, and went off,
with the cart and one of the horses, to the smithy. When he reached Nettlebank, on his return
from the smithy, he had nearly driven his cart over Nancy Black, who, whitened by the falling
snow, was leaning against the garden wall, and appeared to have been shedding tears. On discovering
him, she endeavoured to assume an air of cheerfulness, and asked if he would stop for a short
time, as she would have a message for him. Being answered in the affirmative, she hurried into
the house, and in a few minutes returned with a piece of folded paper, which she requested
him to give to his master's son. "But stay," said she, as he was putting it into his pocket--"it
is not closed--I had forgot;" and then, after a short pause, she added--"but perhaps you do
not read write?"

"Na," said Duncan, speaking in an accent much broader than the provincial dialect--"na, my
faither was owre puir for giein me ony buke lear." This seemed to satisfy the damsel, and she
intrusted him with the letter in its unclosed state, only enjoining him to show it to nobody,
and give it into the hands of George Chrighton.

After nightfall, George said that "he must go to the smithy for some things which had been
forgotten in the forenoon," and wished to see Duncan, to give him some orders about foddering
the remaining horses. But Duncan was nowhere to be found; and, after performing the task himself--the
evening being now well advanced--he took the road for the smithy. It seemed, however, that
he had business elsewhere; for, on reaching Nettlebank, he climbed over the garden wall, and,
tapping gently at a low window, he was answered by a sigh from within. The door was immediately
opened without noise, and a female form stood by his side. He placed her arm in his, and they
passed silently to the barn, where they both stood without speaking for some time, and both
sighed deeply. At last--

"George," said Nancy Black--for it was she--"I have done wrong in requesting you to meet me
to-night; but I have been so much agitated with what I have heard of late that I could not
do otherwise."

"What have you heard, my love?" inquired the other, in a tone of the deepest tenderness--"only
tell me, and, whatever your feelings may be, there is at least one heart ready to share them."

"I thought I could tell you all," said Nancy, "before you were here; but now, when you are
beside me, I cannot, and yet I must; for, though my father and brother are from home, they
may soon be back, and I may be missed from the house. Did you ever hear," she continued, evidently
placing her feelings under a strong restraint as she spoke--"did you ever hear that your dog
was poisoned?"

"I was never told so," said George; "but, perhaps, I have suspected that the dog, and the horses
and the cattle likewise, were poisoned; and, perhaps, I have suspected who did it. But, if
that were the worst, we might get over it still; and you must not distress yourself, my love,
for dogs and horses."

"But I have other causes of distress," said she, still keeping her feelings under the same
control. "We had Mr. Goosequill here last night and this forenoon; and, from parts of the conversation
which passed when they were more than half drunk, I learned that Gilbert and Miss Goosequill
are to be married, and Sunnybraes is to be their residence, which the factor says he is certain
he can now get at my father's offer. Oh, how my heart burns to think a daughter must thus reveal
a parent's disgrace!"

"Nay, my dearest, do not distress yourself for this," rejoined the other. "Though my father
cannot resign Sunnybraes to you and me, as he had intended, to mourn over it will not mend
the matter. Let Gilbert and Grizzy enjoy the farm; but, before they can establish themselves
on it, I will be on my passage to America; and, in a few years, with the blessing of God, I
may be able to return--a better man than the farmer of Sunnybraes; and then, Nancy--but, first,
promise that you will love me till"--

Here he was interrupted by the sobs of her whom he addressed. It was long before she could
speak; and, when she could speak, long and earnestly did she try to dissuade him from his purpose.
But the youth, perceiving no prospect of their union, except by the plan which he proposed
to adopt, was inflexible. Finding all her entreaties were vain--

"Then it is as my heart foreboded," said she. "To-day I heard from Andrew Sharp of your intention
of going to America. I walked out to conceal my feelings; and, while leaning on the garden
wall, forgetful of everything else, your servant passed, and then the wish rose in my heart
to see you once more. After I had made my foolish request, I had still another wish ungratified,
and that was, in case my arguments should fail, as they have done, that you would carry along
with you some remembrance of her whom you once professed to love. This is woman's weakness,
but perhaps you will pardon it; and perhaps you will keep the gift, though no better than a
child's bauble, for the sake of the giver."

"I will--I will!" interrupted George, eagerly, whilst he took her hand.

"I am half ashamed of it," she continued; "it is only a small sampler, on which, shortly after
leaving school, I sewed your father and mother's names at full length, and yours, and--and
mine--I may tell you this now, when we are about to part, perhaps for ever. No one ever saw
me put a stitch in it. Will you keep it for my sake?"

"While life remains," said the lover; "run, my love, and bring it, that I may place it in my
bosom."

"It is here already," said she, "and that is the reason why I wished our meeting to be in this
place. Fearing lest my father should come home, and prevent me getting it from the house, I
brought it out and concealed it here."

With these words, she made a few steps aside; and, as she stooped down to bring her little
keepsake from under the empty sacks which covered it, instead of returning with it, she started
and screamed. George flew to her assistance. Something seemed stirring among the sacks, as
if an animal had been attempting to rise; he laid hold of it, and dragged a heavy body after
him to the door. The moon, which was now up, showed his burden to be a man; and, grasping him
by the collar--"Scoundrel!" he said, "what business had you there?" then, turning him round
to have a better view of his face--"Duncan!" he added--his anger in some measure yielding to
surprise--"I had nearly given you a thrashing; but you have been our guest, and assisted us
in our difficulties, and I must hear from your own lips that you are guilty, before I pass
sentence upon you." With these words he quitted his grasp.

The blood flushed Duncan's cheek, and for some seconds he seemed uncertain whether to offer
resistance or sue for peace. At last he said--holding out his hand, which the other as frankly
took--"If you had thrashed me, it would have been no more than I deserved. But perhaps you
shall have no reason afterwards to repent of having spared yourself this labour; for, though
I had my own reasons for doing as I have done"--

These words were spoken in good English, with an accent and a dignity altogether different
from the speaker's former mode of speaking; but, before he could proceed, he was saluted, by
a rough voice from behind, with the words--"I shall thrash you, you skulking vagabond!" And,
at the same moment, he was grasped roughly by the collar by Mr. Black, who raised a heavy oaken
cudgel to strike him on the head. Had that blow descended, the probability is that Duncan Cowpet
would have slept with his fathers; but George Chrighton wrenched the stick from the hand of
the infuriated man.

"Unchain the dog!" bawled Mr. Black, in a voice of thunder.

"I'll s-et loose Cae-sar," hickuped his son. But, instead of doing as he said, he lay down
beside the animal, and began, in good earnest, to that operation which the "dog" must perform
before he can "turn to his vomit."

Mr. Black still continued to keep a hold of Duncan with one hand, and to strike him with the
other, till George, stepping behind him, threw him quietly down upon a quantity of straw; and
he, too, began to discharge the contents of his over-loaded stomach. Nancy, who, up to this
moment had stood in speechless terror, now stepped from the barn.

"Fly, fly," she whispered. "My father is drunk. I know it. He has never seen me; and you may
escape. I will find some means of sending it. Fly, I conjure you!" And she pushed him gently
from her.

On the following morning, Duncan was amissing; and, like a fool, he had run off and left his
five guineas behind him. But the mystery was about to be cleared up. A little after daybreak,
letters were delivered to the whole of the parties concerned, summoning them to meet the laird
at an inn in the neighbourhood; and the surprise of all may be easily imagined when they discovered
that Sir Patrick Felspar was no other than Duncan Cowpet in a different dress. The result was
such as might have been expected from a laird who had learned the truth from observation and
experience. We have only room to add, that shortly thereafter two marriages were celebrated--two
individuals who had been accustomed to hold their heads high were effectually humbled; and,
to this day, whenever any farmer, or other individual, is supposed to be dealing unfairly with
his neighbours, it is a common saying in the district--"Send Duncan Cowpet, to see what he
is about."

FOOTNOTES:

[5] We may claim for this tale the peculiarity of its having been the first essay of its author,
Alexander Bethune, the self-educated "Fifeshire labourer." This excellent and ingenious man
became subsequently well known by his volume of "Tales and Sketches of the Scottish Peasantry,"
published by Mr. Adam Black, and designated at the time a literary phenomenon. It was truly
said of him by the Spectator: "Alexander Bethune, if he had written anonymously, might have
passed for a regular litterateur." Along with his brother John "the Fifeshire forester," he
published, in 1889, "Practical Economy"--a work which deserves to be reprinted and spread among
the people, as containing the true secret of domestic happiness, so well exemplified in the
contented and virtuous lives of its humble authors.--ED.

[6] Repast, so called, to which, in some parts of the country, the friends of the deceased
are invited after the funeral.

[7] The materials of which a mud-wall is constructed in many parts of Scotland.

THE RIVAL NIGHTCAPS.

One little sentence gave rise to all the disputes of the old philosophers, from Parmenides
down to Aristotle, and that was composed of three words, ex nihilo nihil--nothing can come
out of nothing--upon which were raised the doctrines of the atomists, incorporealists, epicureans,
theists, and atheists, and all the other races of dreamers that have disturbed the common sense,
lethargy, or comfort of the world for thousands of years; so that nothing could have better
proved the absolute nothingness of their favourite maxim, that nothing could come from nothing,
than the effects of that very dogma itself, for nothing ever made such a stir in the moral
world, since it deserved to be called something. But a more extraordinary circumstance is,
that, though we every day see the most gigantic consequences result from what may be termed,
paradoxically, less than nothing, there are certain metaphysical wiseacres who still stick
to the old maxim, in spite of their own senses, even that of feeling, and declare it to be
true gospel. Let them read the tale of real every-day life we are now to lay before them, and
then say, if they dare, that it is impossible that anything can come out of inanity. But, to
proceed:--

In the neighbourhood of the suburban village of Bridgeton, near Glasgow, there lived, a good
many years ago, a worthy man, and an excellent weaver, of the name of Thomas Callender, and
his wife, a bustling, active woman, but, if anything, a little of what is called the randy.
We have said that Thomas's occupation was the loom. It was so; but, be it known, that he was
not a mere journeyman weaver--one who is obliged to toil for the subsistence of the day that
is passing over him, and whose sole dependence is on the labour of his hands. By no means.
Thomas had been all his days a careful, thrifty man, and had made his hay while the sun shone;--when
wages were good, he had saved money--as much as could keep him in a small way, independent
of labour, should sickness, or any other casualty, render it necessary for him to fall back
on his secret resources. Being, at the time we speak of, however, suffering under no bodily
affliction of any kind, but, on the contrary, being hale and hearty, and not much past the
meridian of life, he continued at his loom, although, perhaps, not altogether with the perseverance
and assiduity which had distinguished the earlier part of his brilliant career. The consciousness
of independence, and, probably, some slight preliminary touches from approaching eild, had
rather abated the energy of his exertions; yet Thomas still made a fair week's wage of it,
as matters went. Now, with a portion of the honest wealth which he had acquired, Mr. Callender
had built himself a good substantial tenement--the first floor of which was occupied by looms,
which were let on hire; the second was his own place of residence; and the third was divided
into small domiciles, and let to various tenants. To the house was attached a small garden,
a kail-yard, in which he was wont, occasionally, to recreate himself with certain botanical
and horticultural pursuits, the latter being specially directed to the cultivation of greens,
cabbages, leeks, and other savoury and useful pot herbs. Of his house and garden altogether,
Mr. Callender was, and reasonably enough, not a little proud; for it was, certainly, a snug
little property; and, moreover, it was entirely the creation of his own industry.

But Thomas's mansion stood not alone in its glory. A rival stood near. This was the dwelling
of Mr. John Anderson, in almost every respect the perfect counterpart of that of Mr. Thomas
Callender--a similarity which is in part accounted for by the facts, that John was also a weaver,
that he too had made a little money by a life of industry and economy, and that the house was
built by himself. By what we have just said, then, we have shown, we presume, that Thomas and
John were near neighbours; and, having done so, it follows, of course, that their wives were
near neighbours also; but we beg to remark, regarding the latter, that it by no means follows
that they were friends, or that they had any liking for each other. The fact, indeed, was quite
otherwise. They hated each other with great cordiality--a hatred in which a feeling of jealousy
of each other's manifestations of wealth, whether in matters relating to their respective houses
or persons, or those of their husbands, was the principal feature. Any new article of dress
which the one was seen to display, was sure to be immediately repeated, or, if possible, surpassed
by the other; and the same spirit of retaliation was carried throughout every department of
their domestic economy.

Between the husbands, too, there was no great good-will; for, besides being influenced, to
a certain extent, in their feelings towards each other by their wives, they had had a serious
difference on their own account. John Anderson, on evil purpose intent, had once stoned some
ducks of Thomas Callender's out of a dub, situated in the rear of, and midway between the two
houses; claiming said dub for the especial use of his ducks alone; and, on that occasion, had
maimed and otherwise severely injured a very fine drake, the property of his neighbour, Thomas
Callender. Now, Thomas very naturally resented this unneighbourly proceeding on the part of
John; and, further, insisted that his ducks had as good a right to the dub as Anderson's. Anderson
denied the justice of this claim; Callender maintained it; and the consequence was a series
of law proceedings, which mulcted each of them of somewhere about fifty pounds sterling money,
and finally ended in the decision, that they should divide the dub between them in equal portions,
which was accordingly done.

The good-will, then, towards each other, between the husbands, was thus not much greater than
between their wives; but, in their case, of course, it was not marked by any of those outbreaks
and overt acts which distinguished the enmity of their better halves. The dislike of the former
was passive, that of the latter active--most indefatigably active; for Mrs. Anderson was every
bit as spirited a woman as her neighbour, Mrs. Callender, and was a dead match for her in any
way she might try.

Thus stood matters between these two rival houses of York and Lancaster, when Mrs. Callender,
on looking from one of her windows one day, observed that the head of her rival's husband,
who was at the moment recreating himself in his garden, was comfortably set off with a splendid
new striped Kilmarnock nightcap. Now, when Mrs. Callender saw this, and recollected the very
shabby, faded article of the same denomination--"mair like a dish-cloot," as she muttered to
herself, "than onything else"--which her Thomas wore, she determined on instantly providing
him with a new one; resolved, as she also remarked to herself, not to let the Anderson's beat
her, even in the matter of a nightcap. But Mrs. Callender not only resolved on rivalling her
neighbour, in the matter of having a new nightcap for her husband, but in surpassing her in
the quality of the said nightcap. She determined that her "man's" should be a red one; "a far
mair genteeler thing," as she said to herself, "than John Anderson's vulgar striped Kilmarnock."
Having settled this matter to her own satisfaction, and having dexterously prepared her husband
for the vision of a new nightcap--which she did by urging sundry reasons, totally different
from those under whose influence she really acted, as she knew that he would never give into
such an absurdity as a rivalship with his neighbour in the matter of a nightcap--this matter
settled then, we say, the following day saw Mrs. Callender sailing into Glasgow, to purchase
a red nightcap for her husband--a mission which, we need not say, she very easily accomplished.
Her choice was one of the brightest hue she could find--a flaming article, that absolutely
dazzled Thomas with the intensity of its glare, when it was triumphantly unrolled before him.

"Jenny," said the latter, in perfect simplicity of heart, and utter ignorance of the true cause
of his wife's care of his comfort in the present instance--"Jenny, but that is a bonny thing,"
he said, looking admiringly at the gaudy commodity, into which he had now thrust his hand and
part of his arm, in order to give it all possible extension, and thus holding it up before
him as he spoke.

"Really it is a bonny thing," he repeated, "and, I warrant, a comfortable."

"Isna't?" replied his wife, triumphantly. And she would have added, "How far prettier and mair
genteeler a thing than John Anderson's!" But, as this would have betrayed secrets, she refrained,
and merely added, "Now, my man, Tammas, ye'll just wear't when ye gang about the doors and
the yard. It'll mak ye look decent and respectable--what ye wasna in that creeshy cloot ye're
wearin, that made ye look mair like a tauty bogle than a Christian man."

Thomas merely smiled at these remarks, and made no reply in words.

Thus far, then, Mrs. Callender's plot had gone on swimmingly. There only wanted now her husband's
appearance in the garden in his new red nightcap; where the latter could not but be seen by
her rival, to complete her triumph--and this satisfaction she was not long denied. Thomas,
at her suggestion, warily and cautiously urged however, instantly took the field in his new
nightcap; and the result was as complete and decisive as the heart of a woman, in Mrs. Callender's
circumstances, could desire. Mrs. Anderson saw the nightcap, guessed the cause of its appearance,
and resolved to be avenged. In that moment, when her sight was blasted, her pride humbled,
and her spirits roused, which they were all at one and the same time by the vision of Thomas
Callender's new red nightcap, she resolved on getting her husband to strike the striped cap,
and mount one of precisely the same description--better if possible, but she was not sure if
this could be had.

Now, on prevailing on her husband to submit to the acquisition of another new nightcap, Mrs.
Anderson had a much more difficult task to perform than her rival; for the cap that John was
already provided with, unlike Thomas's, was not a week out of the shop, and no earthly good
reason, one would think, could therefore be urged, why he should so soon get another. But what
will not woman's wit accomplish? Anything! As proof of this, if proof were wanted, we need
only mention that Mrs. Anderson did succeed in this delicate and difficult negotiation, and
prevailed upon John, first, to allow her to go into Glasgow to buy him a new red nightcap,
and to promise to wear it when it should be bought. How she accomplished this--what sort of
reasoning she employed--we know not; but certain it is that it was done. Thus fully warranted,
eagerly and cleverly did Mrs. Anderson, on the instant, prepare to execute the mission to which
this warrant referred. In ten minutes she was dressed, and, in one more was on her way to Glasgow
to make the desiderated purchase. Experiencing, of course, as little difficulty in effecting
this matter as her rival had done, Mrs. Anderson soon found herself in possession of a red
nightcap, as bright, every bit, as Mr. Callender's; and this cap she had the happiness of drawing
on the head of her unconscious husband, who, we need scarcely add, knew as little of the real
cause of his being fitted out with this new piece of head-gear as his neighbour, Callender.

Thus far, then, with Mrs. Anderson too, went the plot of the nightcaps smoothly; and all that
she also now wanted to attain the end she aimed at, was her husband's appearance in his garden,
with his new acquisition on.

This consummation she also quickly brought round. John sallied out with his red nightcap; and,
oh, joy of joys! Mrs. Callender saw it. Ay, Mrs. Callender saw it--at once recognised in it
the spirit which had dictated its display; and deep and deadly was the revenge that she vowed.

"Becky, Becky," she exclaimed, in a tone of lofty indignation--and thus summoning to her presence,
from an adjoining apartment, her daughter, a little girl of about ten years of age--"rin owre
dereckly to Lucky Anderson's and tell her to give me my jeely can immediately." And Mrs. Callender
stamped her foot, grew red in the face, and exhibited sundry other symptoms of towering passion.
Becky instantly obeyed the order so peremptorily given; and, while she is doing so, we may
throw in a digressive word or two, by the way of more fully enlightening the reader regarding
the turn which matters seemed now about to take. Be it known to him, then, that the demand
for the jelly pot, which was now about to be made on Mrs. Anderson, was not a bona fide proceeding.
It was not made in good faith; for Mrs. Callender knew well, and had been told so fifty times,
that the said jelly pot was no longer in existence as a jelly pot; and moreover, she had been,
as often as she was told this, offered full compensation, which might be about three farthings
sterling money of this realm, for the demolished commodity. Moreover, again, it was three years
since it had been borrowed. From all this, the reader will at once perceive, what was the fact,
that the sending for the said jelly pot, on the present occasion, and in the way described,
was a mere breaking of ground previous to the performance of some other contemplated operations.
It was, in truth, entirely a tactical proceeding--a dexterously and ingeniously laid pretext
for a certain intended measure which could not decently have stood on its own simple merits.
In proof of this, we need only state, that it is beyond all question that nothing could have
disappointed Mrs. Callender more than the return of the desiderated jelly pot. But this, she
knew, she had not to fear, and the result showed that she was right. The girl shortly came
back with the usual reply--that the pot was broken; but that Mrs. Anderson would cheerfully
pay the value of it, if Mrs. Callender would say what that was. To the inexpressible satisfaction
of the latter, however, the message, on this occasion, was accompanied by some impertinences
which no woman of spirit could tamely submit to. She was told, for instance, that "she made
mair noise aboot her paltry, dirty jelly mug, a thousand times, than it was a' worth," and
was ironically, and, we may add, insultingly entreated, "for ony sake to mak nae mair wark
aboot it, and a dizzen wad be sent her for't."

"My troth, and there's a stock o' impidence for ye!" said Mrs. Callender, on her little daughter
having delivered herself of all the small provocatives with which she had been charged. "There's
impidence for ye!" she said, planting her hands in her sides, and looking the very personification
of injured innocence. "Was the like o't ever heard? First to borrow, and then to break my jeely
mug, and noo to tell me, whan I'm seekin my ain, that I'm makin mair noise aboot it than it's
a' worth! My certy, but she has a brazen face. The auld wizzened, upsettin limmer that she
is. Set them up, indeed wi' red nicht-caps." Now, this was the last member of Mrs. Callender's
philippic, but it was by no means the least. In fact, it was the whole gist of the matter--the
sum and substance, and, we need not add, the real and true cause of her present amiable feeling
towards her worthy neighbours, John Anderson and his wife. Adjusting her mutch now on her head,
and spreading her apron decorously before her, Mrs. Callender intimated her intention of proceeding
instantly to Mrs. Anderson's to demand her jelly pot in person, and to seek, at the same time,
satisfaction for the insulting message that had been sent her. Acting on this resolution, she
forthwith commenced her march towards the domicile of John Anderson, nursing, the while, her
wrath to keep it warm. On reaching the door, she announced her presence by a series of sharp,
open-the-door-instantly knocks, which were promptly attended to, and the visitor courteously
admitted.

"Mrs. Anderson," said Mrs. Callender, on entering, and assuming a calmness and composure of
demeanour that was sadly belied by the suppressed agitation, or rather fury, which she could
not conceal, "I'm just come to ask ye if ye'll be sae guid, Mem, as gie me my jeely mug."

"Yer jeely mug, Mrs. Callender!" exclaimed Mrs. Anderson, raising herself to her utmost height,
and already beginning to exhibit symptoms of incipient indignation. "Yer jeely mug, Mrs. Callender!"
she repeated, with a provokingly ironical emphasis. "Dear help me, woman, but ye do mak an
awfu wark about that jeely mug o' yours. I'm sure it wasna sae muckle worth; and ye hae been
often tell't that it was broken, but that we wad willingly pay ye for't."

"It's no payment I want, Mrs. Anderson," replied Mrs. Callender, with a high-spirited toss
of the head. "I want my mug, and my mug I'll hae. Do ye hear that?" And here Mrs. Callender
struck her clenched fist on the open side of her left hand, in the impressive way peculiar
to some ladies when under the influence of passion. "And, since ye come to that o't, let me
tell ye ye're a very insultin, ill-bred woman, to tell me that it wasna muckle worth, after
ye hae broken't."

"My word, lass," replied Mrs. Anderson, bridling up, with flushed countenance, and head erect,
to the calumniator, "but ye're no blate to ca' me thae names i' my ain house."

"Ay, I'll ca' ye thae names, and waur too, in yer ain house, or onywhar else," replied the
other belligerent, clenching her teeth fiercely together, and thrusting her face with most
intense ferocity into the countenance of her antagonist. "Ay, here or onywhar else," she replied,
"I'll ca' ye a mean-spirited, impident woman--an upsettin impident woman! Set your man up,
indeed, wi' a red nichtkep!"

"An' what for no?" replied Mrs. Anderson with a look of triumphant inquiry. "He's as weel able
to pay for't as you, and maybe, if a' was kent, a hantle better. A red nichtkep, indeed, ye
impertinent hizzy!"

"'Od, an' ye hizzy me, I'll te-e-e-eer the liver out o' ye!" exclaimed the now infuriated Mrs.
Callender, at the same instant seizing her antagonist by the hair of the head and mutch together,
and, in a twinkling, tearing the latter into a thousand shreds. Active hostilities being now
fairly commenced, a series of brilliant operations, both offensive and defensive, immediately
ensued. The first act of aggression on the part of Mrs. Callender--namely, demolishing her
opponent's head-gear--was returned by the latter by a precisely similar proceeding; that is,
by tearing her mutch into fragments.

This preliminary operation performed, the combatants resorted to certain various other demonstrative
acts of love and friendship; but now with such accompaniments of screams and exclamations as
quickly filled the apartment which was the scene of strife, with neighbours, who instantly
began to attempt to effect a separation of the combatants. While they were thus employed, in
came John Anderson, who had been out of the way when the tug of war began, and close upon his
heels came Mr. Callender, whose ears an alarming report of the contest in which his gallant
spouse was engaged, had reached. Both gentlemen were, at the moment, in their red nightcaps,
and might thus be considerd as the standard bearers of the combatants.

"Whats' a' this o't?" exclaimed Mr. Anderson, pushing into the centre of the crowd by which
the two women were surrounded.

"O, the hizzy!" exclaimed his wife, who had, at the instant, about a yard of her antagonist's
hair rolled about her hand. "It's a' aboot your nichtkep, John, and her curst jeely mug. A'
aboot your nichtkep, and the jeely mug."

Now, this allusion to the jelly pot, John perfectly understood, but that to the nightcap he
did not, nor did he attend to it; but, as became a dutiful and loving husband to do in such
circumstances, immediately took the part of his wife, and was in the act of thrusting her antagonist
aside, which operation he was performing somewhat rudely, when he was collared from behind
by his neighbour, Thomas Callender, who naturally enough enrolled himself at once on the side
of his better half.

"Hauns aff, John!" exclaimed Mr. Callender--their old grudge fanning the flame of that hostility
which was at this moment rapidly increasing in the bosoms of both the gentlemen, as he gave
Mr. Anderson sundry energetic tugs and twists, with a view of putting him hors de combat. "Hauns
aff, neebor!" he said. "Hauns aff, if ye please, till we ken wha has the richt o' this bisness,
and what it's a' about."

"Pu' doon their pride, Tam!--pu' doon their pride!" exclaimed Mrs. Callender, who, although
intently engaged at the moment in tearing out a handful of her opponent's hair, was yet aware
of the reinforcement that had come to her aid. "Pu' doon their pride, Tam. Tack a claut o'
John's nichtkep. The limmer says they're better able to afford ane than we are."

While Mrs. Callender was thus expressing the particular sentiments which occupied her mind
at the moment, John Anderson had turned round to resent the liberty which the former had taken
of collaring him; and this resentment he expressed by collaring his assailant in turn. The
consequence of this proceeding was a violent struggle, which finally ended in a close stand-up
fight between the male combatants, who shewed great spirit, although, perhaps, not a great
deal of science. John Anderson, in particular, struck out manfully, and, in a twinkling, tapped
the claret of his antagonist, Tom Callender. Tom, in return, made some fair attempts at closing
up the day-lights of John Anderson, but, truth compels us to say, without success. The fight
now became general--the wives having quitted their holds of each other, and flown to the rescue
of their respective husbands. They were thus all bundled together in one indiscriminate and
unintelligible melée. One leading object or purpose, however, was discernible on the part of
the female combatants. This was to get hold of the red nightcaps--each that of her husband's
antagonist; and, after a good deal of scrambling, and clutching, and punching, they both succeeded
in tearing off the obnoxious head-dress, with each a handful of the unfortunate wearer's hair
along with it. While this was going on, the conflicting, but firmly united mass of combatants,
who were all bundled, or rather locked together in close and deadly strife, was rolling heavily,
sometimes one way, and sometimes another, sometimes ending with a thud against a partition,
that made the whole house shake, sometimes with a ponderous lodgment against a door, which,
unable to resist the shock, flew open, and landed the belligerents at their full length on
the floor, where they rolled over one another in a very edifying and picturesque manner.

But this could not continue very long, and neither did it. A consummation or catastrophe occurred,
which suddenly, and at once, put an end to the affray. In one of those heavy lee-lurches which
the closely united combatants made, they came thundering against the frail legs of a dresser,
which was ingeniously contrived to support two or three tiers of shelves, which, again, were
laden with stoneware, the pride of Mrs. Anderson's heart, built up with nice and dexterous
contrivance, so as to shew to the greatest advantage. Need we say what was the consequence
of this rude assault on the legs of the aforementioned dresser, supporting, as it did, this
huge superstructure of shelves and crockery? Scarcely. But we will. Down, then, came the dresser;
and down, as a necessary corollary, came also the shelves, depositing their contents with an
astounding crash upon the floor, not a jug out of some eight or ten, of various shapes and
sizes, not a plate out of some scores, not a bowl out of a dozen, not a cup or saucer out of
an entire set, escaping total demolition. The destruction was frightful--unprecedented in the
annals of domestic mishaps. On the combatants the effect of the thundering crash of the crockery,
or smashables, as they have been sometimes characteristically designated, was somewhat like
that which has been known to be produced in a sea-fight by the blowing up of a ship. Hostilities
were instantly suspended; all looking with silent horror on the dreadful scene of ruin around
them. Nor did any disposition to renew the contest return. On the contrary, there was an evident
inclination, on the part of two of the combatants--namely, Mr. Callender and his wife--to evacuate
the premises. Appalled at the extent of the mischief done, and visited with an awkward feeling
of probable responsibility, they gradually edged towards the door, and, finally, sneaked out
of the house without saying a word.

"If there's law or justice in the land," exclaimed Mrs. Anderson, in high excitation, as she
swept together the fragments of her demolished crockery, "I'll hae't on Tam Callender and his
wife. May I niver see the morn, if I haena them afore the Shirra before a week gangs owre my
head! I hae a set aff, noo, against her jeely mug, I think."

"It's been a bonny business," replied her husband; "but what on earth was't a' aboot?"

"What was't a' aboot!" repeated his wife, with some asperity of manner, but now possessed of
presence of mind enough to shift the ground of quarrel, which she felt would comprise her with
her husband. "Didna I tell ye that already? What should it be a' aboot, but her confounded
jeely mug! But I'll mak her pay for this day's wark, or I'm sair cheated. It'll be as bad a
job this for them as the duck-dub, I'm thinkin."

"We hadna muckle to brag o' there oursels, guidwife," interposed her husband, calmly.

"See, there," said Mrs. Anderson, either not heeding, or not hearing John's remark. "See, there,"
she said, holding up a fragment of one of the broken vessels, "there's the end o' my bonny
cheeny jug, that I was sae vogie o', and that hadna its neebor in braid Scotland." And a tear
glistened in the eye of the susceptible mourner, as she contemplated the melancholy remains,
and recalled to memory the departed splendours of the ill-fated tankard. Quietly dashing, however,
the tear of sorrow aside, both her person and spirit assumed the lofty attitude of determined
vengeance; and, "she'll rue this," she now went on, "if there be ony law or justice in the
kingdom. It'll be a dear jug to her, or my name's no what it is."

Equally indignant with his wife at the assault and battery committed by the Callenders, but
less talkative, John sat quietly ruminating on the events of the evening, and, anon, still
continuing to raise his hand, at intervals, to his mangled countenance. With the same taciturnity,
he subsequently assisted Mrs. Anderson to throw the collected fragments of the broken dishes
into a hamper, and to carry and deposit said hamper in an adjoining closet, where, it was determined,
they should be carefully kept as evidence of the extent of the damage which had been sustained.

In the meantime, neither Mrs. Thomas Callender nor Mr. Thomas Callender felt by any means at
ease respecting the crockery catastrophe. Although feeling that it was a mere casualty of war,
and an unforeseen and unpremeditated result of a fair and equal contest, they yet could not
help entertaining some vague apprehension for the consequences. They felt, in short, that it
might be made a question whether they were not liable for the damage done, seeing that they
had intruded themselves into their neighbour's house, where they had no right to go. It was
under some such awkward fear as this that Mr. Callender, who had also obtained an evasive account
of the cause of quarrel, said, with an unusually long and grave face, to his wife, on their
gaining their own house, and holding, at the same time, a handkerchief to his still bleeding
and now greatly swollen proboscis--

"Yon was a deevil o' a stramash, Mirran. I never heard the like o't. It was awfu'. I think
I hear the noise o' the crashing plates and bowls in my lugs yet."

"Deil may care! Let them tak it!" replied Mrs. Callender, endeavouring to assume a disregard
of consequences, which she was evidently very far from feeling. "She was aye owre vain o' her
crockery; so that better couldna happen her."

"Ay," replied her husband; "but yon smashing o't was rather a serious business."

"It was just music to my lugs, then," said Mrs. Callender, boldly.

"Maybe," rejoined her husband, "but I doot we'll hae to pay the piper. They'll try't ony way,
I'm jalousin."

"Let them. There'll be nae law or justice in the country if they mak that oot," responded Mrs.
Callender, and exhibiting, in this sentiment, the very striking difference of opinion between
the two ladies, of the law and justice of the land.

The fears, however, which Mr. Callender openly expressed, as above recorded, and which his
wife felt but concealed, were not groundless. On the evening of the very next day after the
battle of the nightcaps, as Thomas Callender was sitting in his elbow-chair by the fire, luxuriously
enjoying its grateful warmth, and the ease and comfort of his slippers and red nightcap, which
he had drawn well down over his ears, he was suddenly startled by a sharp, loud rap at the
door. Mrs. Callender hastened to open it, when two papers were thrust into her hands by an
equivocal-looking personage, who, without saying a word, wheeled round on his heel the instant
he had placed the mysterious documents in her possession, and hastened away.

With some misgivings as to the contents of these papers, Mrs. Callender placed them before
her husband.

"What's this?" said the latter, with a look of great alarm, and placing his spectacles on his
nose, preparatory to a deliberate perusal of the suspicious documents. His glasses wiped and
adjusted, Thomas unfolded the papers, held them up close to the candle, and found them to be
a couple of summonses, one for himself and one for his wife. These summonses, we need hardly
say, were at the instance of their neighbour, John Anderson, and exhibited a charge of assault
and battery, and claim for damages, to the extent of two pounds fourteen shillings sterling,
for demolition of certain articles of stoneware, &c. &c. &c.

"Ay," said Thomas, laying down the fatal papers. "Faith, here it is, then! We're gaun to get
it ruch an roun', noo, Mirran. I was dootin this. But we'll defen', we'll defen'," added Thomas,
who was, or, we rather suspect, imagined himself to be, a bit of a lawyer, ever since the affair
of the duck-dub, during which he had picked up some law terms, but without any accompanying
knowledge whatever of their import or applicability. "We'll defen', we'll defen'," he said,
with great confidence of manner, "and gie them a revised condescendence for't that they'll
fin gayan teuch to chow. But we maun obey the ceetation, in the first place, to prevent decreet
in absence, whilk wad gie the pursuer, in this case, everything his ain way."

"Defen'!" exclaimed Mrs. Callender, with high indignation; "my faith, that we wull, I warrant
them, and maybe a hantle mair. We'll maybe no be content wi' defendin, but strike oot, and
gar them staun aboot."

"Noo, there ye show yer ignorance o' the law, Mirran," said her husband, with judicial gravity;
"for ye see"----

"Tuts, law or no law," replied Mrs. Callender, impatiently--"I ken what's justice and common
sense; an' that's aneuch for me. An' justice I'll hae, Tam," she continued, with such an increase
of excitement as brought on the usual climax in such cases, of striking one of her clenched
hands on her open palm--"An' justice I will hae, Tam, on thae Andersons, if it's to be had
for love or money."

"We'll try't, ony way," said her husband, folding up the summonses, and putting them carefully
into his breeches pocket. "Since it has come to this, we'll gie them law for't."

In the spirit and temper of bold defiance expressed in the preceding colloquy, Mr. Callender
and his wife awaited the day and hour appointed for their appearance in the Sheriff Court at
Glasgow. This day and hour in due time came, and, when it did, it found both parties, pursuers
and defenders, in the awful presence of the judge. Both the ladies were decked out in their
best and grandest attire, while each of their husbands rejoiced in his Sunday's suit. It was
a great occasion for both parties. On first recognising each other, the ladies exchanged looks
which were truly edifying to behold. Mrs. Anderson's was that of calm, dignified triumph; and
which, if translated into her own vernacular, would have said, "My word, lass, but ye'll fin
whar ye are noo." Mrs. Callender's, again, was that of bold defiance, and told of a spirit
that was unconquerable--game to the last being the most strongly marked and leading expression,
at this interesting moment, of her majestic countenance. Close beside where Mrs. Anderson sat,
and evidently under her charge, there stood an object which, from the oddness of its appearing
in its present situation, attracted a good deal of notice, and excited some speculation amongst
those present in the court, and which particularly interested Mrs. Callender and her worthy
spouse. This was a hamper--a very large one. People wondered what could be in it, and for what
purpose it was there. They could solve neither of these problems; but the reader can, we dare
say. He will at once conjecture--and, if he does so, he will conjecture rightly--that the hamper
in question contained the remains of the smashables spoken of formerly at some length, and
that it was to be produced in court by the pursuers, as evidence of the nature and extent of
the damage done.

The original idea of bringing forward this article, for the purpose mentioned, was Mrs. Anderson's;
and, having been approved of by her husband, it had been that morning carted to the court-house,
and thereafter carried to and deposited in its present situation by the united exertions of
the pursuers, who relied greatly on the effect it would produce when its lid should be thrown
open, and the melancholy spectacle of demolished crockery it concealed exhibited.

The case of Mr. and Mrs. Anderson versus Mr. and Mrs. Callender being pretty far down in the
roll, it was nearly two hours before it was called. This event, however, at length took place.
The names of the pursuers and defenders resounded through the court room, in the slow, drawling,
nasal-toned voice of the crier. Mrs. Anderson, escorted by her loving spouse, sailed up the
middle of the apartment, and placed herself before the judge. With no less dignity of manner,
and with, at least, an equal stateliness of step, Mrs. Callender, accompanied by her lord and
master, sailed up after her, and took her place a little to one side. The parties being thus
arranged, proceedings commenced. Mrs. Anderson was asked to state her case; Mrs. Anderson was
not slow to accept the invitation. She at once began:--

"Ye see, my lord, sir, the matter was just this--and I daur her there" (a look of intense defiance
at Mrs. Callender) "to deny a word, my lord, sir, o' what I'm gaun to say; although I daur
say she wad do't if she could."

"My good woman," here interposed the judge, who had a nervous apprehension of the forensic
eloquence of such female pleaders as the one now before him, "will you have the goodness to
confine yourself strictly to a simple statement of your case?"

"Weel, my lord, sir, I will. Ye see, then, the matter is just this."

And Mrs. Anderson forthwith proceeded to detail the particulars of the quarrel and subsequent
encounter, with a minuteness and circumstantiality which, we fear, the reader would think rather
tedious were we here to repeat. In this statement of her case, Mrs. Anderson, having the fear
of her husband's presence before her eyes, made no allusion whatever to the nightcaps, but
rested the whole quarrel on the jelly pot. Now, this was a circumstance which Mrs. Callender
noted, and of which she, on the instant, determined to take a desperate advantage. Regardless
of all consequences, and, amongst the rest, of discovering to her husband the underhand part
she had been playing in regard to the affair of the nightcap, she resolved on publicly exposing,
as she imagined, the falsehood and pride of her hated rival, by stating the facts of the case
as to the celebrated nightcaps. To this revenge she determined on sacrificing every other consideration.
To return, however, in the meantime, to the proceedings in court.

The statements of the pursuers being now exhausted, the defenders were called upon to give
their version of the story. On this summons, both Mrs. Callender and her husband pressed themselves
into a central position, with the apparent intention of both entering on the defences at the
same time. And this proved to be the fact. On being specially and directly invited by the judge
to open the case--

"Ye see, my lord," began Mr. Thomas Callender; and--

"My lord, sir, ye see," began, at the same instant, Mrs. Thomas Callender.

"Now, now," here interposed the judge, waving his hand impatiently, "one at a time, if you
please. One at a time."

"Surely," replied Mr. Callender. "Staun aside, guidwife, staun aside," he said; at the same
time gently pushing his wife back with his left hand as he spoke. "I'll lay doon the case to
his lordship."

"Ye'll do nae sic a thing, Thomas; I'll do't," exclaimed Mrs. Callender, not only resisting
her husband's attempt to thrust her into the rear, but forcibly placing him in that relative
position; while she herself advanced a pace or two nearer to the bench. On gaining this vantage
ground, Mrs. Callender at once began, and with great emphasis and circumstantiality detailed
the whole story of the nightcaps; carefully modelling it so, however, as to show that her own
part in the transaction was a bona fide proceeding; on the part of her rival, the reverse;
and that the whole quarrel, with its consequent demolition of crockery, was entirely the result
of Mrs. Anderson's "upsettin' pride, and vanity, and jealousy." During the delivery of these
details, the court was convulsed with laughter, in which the sheriff himself had much difficulty
to refrain from joining.

On the husbands of the two women, however, they had a very different effect. Amazed, confounded,
and grievously affronted at this unexpected disclosure of the ridiculous part they had been
made to perform by their respective wives, they both sneaked out of court, amidst renewed peals
of laughter, leaving the latter to finish the case the best way they could. How this was effected
we know not, as at this point ends our story of the rival nightcaps.

END OF VOL III

 +-----------------------------------------------+
 | Transcriber's note:                           |
 |                                               |
 | Inconsistent spelling and punctuation were    |
 | not changed.                                  |
 |                                               |
 | TOC: Changed Pheebe to Phebe                  |
 | Page 3 Changed throroughly to thoroughly      |
 | Page 34 Changed gripe to grip                 |
 | Page 42 Changed Engglish to English           |
 | Page 90 Changes transsport to transport       |
 | Page 161 Changed Nanny to Nancy               |
 | Page 173 Changed Mause to Maudge              |
 | Page 173 Changed phrophetic to prophetic      |
 | Page 174 Changed rythmic to rhythmic          |
 | Page 206 Changed unconcious to unconscious    |
 +-----------------------------------------------+