What Mary loved so passionately, that which came between her and God in every prayer, was not
the gay, young, dashing sailor,--sudden in anger, imprudent of speech, and, though generous
in heart, yet worldly in plans and schemings,--but her own ideal of a grand and noble man,--such
a man as she thought he might become. He stood glorified before her, an image of the strength
that overcomes things physical, of the power of command which controls men and circumstances,
of the courage which disdains fear, of the honor which cannot lie, of constancy which knows
no shadow of turning, of tenderness which protects the weak, and, lastly, of religious loyalty
which should lay the golden crown of its perfected manhood at the feet of a Sovereign Lord
and Redeemer. This was the man she loved, and with this regal mantle of glories she invested
the person called James Marvyn; and all that she saw and felt to be wanting she prayed for
with the faith of a believing woman.

Nor was she wrong;--for, as to every leaf and every flower there is an ideal to which the growth
of the plant is constantly urging, so is there an ideal to every human being,--a perfect form
in which it might appear, were every defect removed and every characteristic excellence stimulated
to the highest point. Once in an age, God sends to some of us a friend who loves in us, not
a false imagining, an unreal character, but, looking through all the rubbish of our imperfections,
loves in us the divine ideal of our nature,--loves, not the man that we are, but the angel
that we may be. Such friends seem inspired by a divine gift of prophecy,--like the mother of
St. Augustine, who, in the midst of the wayward, reckless youth of her son, beheld him in a
vision, standing, clothed in white, a ministering priest at the right hand of God,--as he has
stood for long ages since. Could a mysterious foresight unveil to us this resurrection form
of the friends with whom we daily walk, compassed about with mortal infirmity, we should follow
them with faith and reverence through all the disguises of human faults and weaknesses, "waiting
for the manifestation of the sons of God."

But these wonderful soul-friends, to whom God grants such perception, are the exceptions in
life; yet sometimes are we blessed with one who sees through us, as Michel Angelo saw through
a block of marble, when he attacked it in a divine fervor, declaring that an angel was imprisoned
within it;--and it is often the resolute and delicate hand of such a friend that sets the angel
free.

There be soul-artists, who go through this world, looking among their fellows with reverence,
as one looks amid the dust and rubbish of old shops for hidden works of Titian and Leonardo,
and, finding them, however cracked or torn or painted over with tawdry daubs of pretenders,
immediately recognize the divine original, and set themselves to cleanse and restore. Such
be God's real priests, whose ordination and anointing are from the Holy Spirit; and he who
hath not this enthusiasm is not ordained of God, though whole synods of bishops laid hands on him.

Many such priests there be among women;--for to this silent ministry their nature calls them,
endowed, as it is, with fineness of fibre, and a subtile keenness of perception outrunning
slow-footed reason;--and she of whom we write was one of these.

At this very moment, while the crimson wings of morning were casting delicate reflections on
tree, and bush, and rock, they were also reddening innumerable waves round a ship that sailed
alone, with a wide horizon stretching like an eternity around it; and in the advancing morning
stood a young man thoughtfully looking off into the ocean, with a book in his hand,--James
Marvyn,--as truly and heartily a creature of this material world as Mary was of the invisible
and heavenly.

There are some who seem made to live;--life is such a joy to them, their senses are so fully
en rapport with all outward things, the world is so keenly appreciable, so much a part of themselves,
they are so conscious of power and victory in the government and control of material things,
that the moral and invisible life often seems to hang tremulous and unreal in their minds,
like the pale, faded moon in the light of a gorgeous sunrise. When brought face to face with
the great truths of the invisible world, they stand related to the higher wisdom much like
the gorgeous, gay Alcibiades to the divine Socrates, or like the young man in Holy Writ to
Him for whose appearing Socrates longed;-- they gaze, imperfectly comprehending, and at the
call of ambition or riches turn away sorrowing.

So it was with James;--in full tide of worldly energy and ambition, there had been forming
over his mind that hard crust, that skepticism of the spiritual and exalted, which men of the
world delight to call practical sense; he had been suddenly arrested and humbled by the revelation
of a nature so much nobler than his own that he seemed worthless in his own eyes. He had asked
for love; but when such love unveiled itself, he felt like the disciple of old in the view
of a diviner tenderness,--"Depart from me, for I am a sinful man."

But it is not often that all the current of a life is reversed in one hour; and now, as James
stood on the ship's deck, with life passing around him, and everything drawing upon the strings
of old habits, Mary and her religion recurred to his mind as some fair, sweet, inexplicable
vision. Where she stood he saw; but how he was ever to get there seemed as incomprehensible
as how a mortal man should pillow his form on sunset clouds.

He held the little Bible in his hand as if it were some amulet charmed by the touch of a superior
being; but when he strove to read it, his thoughts wandered, and he shut it, troubled and unsatisfied.
Yet there were within him yearnings and cravings, wants never felt before, the beginning of
that trouble which must ever precede the soul's rise to a higher plane of being.

There we leave him. We have shown you now our three different characters, each one in its separate
sphere, feeling the force of that strongest and holiest power with which it has pleased our
great Author to glorify this mortal life.

CHAPTER IX.

WHICH TREATS OF THINGS SEEN.

As, for example, the breakfast. It is six o'clock,--the hired men and oxen are gone,--the breakfast-table
stands before the open kitchen-door, snowy with its fresh cloth, the old silver coffee-pot
steaming up a refreshing perfume,--and the Doctor sits on one side, sipping his coffee and
looking across the table at Mary, who is innocently pleased at the kindly beaming in his placid
blue eyes,--and Aunt Katy Scudder discourses of housekeeping, and fancies something must have
disturbed the rising of the cream, as it is not so thick and yellow as wont.

Now the Doctor, it is to be confessed, was apt to fall into a way of looking at people such
as pertains to philosophers and scholars generally, that is, as if he were looking through
them into the infinite,--in which case, his gaze became so earnest and intent that it would
quite embarrass an uninitiated person; but Mary, being used to this style of contemplation,
was only quietly amused, and waited till some great thought should loom up before his mental
vision,--in which case, she hoped to hear from him.

The good man swallowed his first cup of coffee and spoke:--

"In the Millennium, I suppose, there will be such a fulness and plenty of all the necessaries
and conveniences of life, that it will not be necessary for men and women to spend the greater
part of their lives in labor in order to procure a living. It will not be necessary for each
one to labor more than two or three hours a day,--not more than will conduce to health of body
and vigor of mind; and the rest of their time they will spend in reading and conversation,
and such exercises as are necessary and proper to improve their minds and make progress in
knowledge."

New England presents probably the only example of a successful commonwealth founded on a theory,
as a distinct experiment in the problem of society. It was for this reason that the minds of
its great thinkers dwelt so much on the final solution of that problem in this world. The fact
of a future Millennium was a favorite doctrine of the great leading theologians of New England,
and Dr. H. dwelt upon it with a peculiar partiality. Indeed, it was the solace and refuge of
his soul, when oppressed with the discouragements which always attend things actual, to dwell
upon and draw out in detail the splendors of this perfect future which was destined to glorify
the world.

Nobody, therefore, at the cottage was in the least surprised when there dropped into the flow
of their daily life these sparkling bits of ore, which their friend had dug in his explorations
of a future Canaan,--in fact, they served to raise the hackneyed present out of the level of
mere commonplace.

"But how will it be possible," inquired Mrs. Scudder, "that so much less work will suffice
in those days to do all that is to be done?"

"Because of the great advance of arts and sciences which will take place before those days,"
said the Doctor, "whereby everything shall be performed with so much greater ease,--also the
great increase of disinterested love, whereby the skill and talents of those who have much
shall make up for the weakness of those who have less.

"Yes," he continued, after a pause,--"all the careful Marthas in those days will have no excuse
for not sitting at the feet of Jesus; there will be no cumbering with much serving; the Church
will have only Maries in those days."

This remark, made without the slightest personal intention, called a curious smile into Mrs.
Scudder's face, which was reflected in a slight blush from Mary's, when the crack of a whip
and the rattling of wagon-wheels disturbed the conversation and drew all eyes to the door.

There appeared the vision of Mr. Zebedee Marvyn's farm-wagon, stored with barrels, boxes, and
baskets, over which Candace sat throned triumphant, her black face and yellow-striped turban
glowing in the fresh morning with a hearty, joyous light, as she pulled up the reins, and shouted
to the horse to stop with a voice that might have done credit to any man living.

"Dear me, if there isn't Candace!" said Mary.

"Queen of Ethiopia," said the Doctor, who sometimes adventured a very placid joke.

The Doctor was universally known in all the neighborhood as a sort of friend and patron-saint
of the negro race; he had devoted himself to their interests with a zeal unusual in those days.
His church numbered more of them than any in Newport; and his hours of leisure from study were
often spent in lowliest visitations among them, hearing their stories, consoling their sorrows,
advising, and directing their plans, teaching them reading and writing, and he often drew hard
on his slender salary to assist them in their emergencies and distresses.

This unusual condescension on his part was repaid on theirs with all the warmth of their race;
and Candace, in particular, devoted herself to the Doctor with all the force of her being.

There was a legend current in the neighborhood, that the first efforts to catechize Candace
were not eminently successful, her modes of contemplating theological tenets being so peculiarly
from her own individual point of view that it was hard to get her subscription to a received
opinion. On the venerable clause in the Catechism, in particular, which declares that all men
sinned in Adam and fell with him, Candace made a dead halt:--

"I didn't do dat ar', for one, I knows. I's got good mem'ry,--allers knows what I does,--nebber
did eat dat ar' apple,--nebber eat a bit ob him. Don't tell me!"

It was of no use, of course, to tell Candace of all the explanations of this redoubtable passage,--of
potential presence, and representative presence, and representative identity, and federal headship.
She met all with the dogged,--

"Nebber did it, I knows; should 'ave 'membered, if I had. Don't tell me!"

And even in the catechizing class of the Doctor himself, if this answer came to her, she sat
black and frowning in stony silence even in his reverend presence.

Candace was often reminded that the Doctor believed the Catechism, and that she was differing
from a great and good man; but the argument made no manner of impression on her, till, one
day, a far-off cousin of hers, whose condition under a hard master had often moved her compassion,
came in overjoyed to recount to her how, owing to Dr. H.'s exertions, he had gained his freedom.
The Doctor himself had in person gone from house to house, raising the sum for his redemption;
and when more yet was wanting, supplied it by paying half his last quarter's limited salary.

"He do dat ar'?" said Candace, dropping the fork wherewith she was spearing doughnuts. "Den
I'm gwine to b'liebe ebery word he does!"

And accordingly, at the next catechizing, the Doctor's astonishment was great when Candace
pressed up to him, exclaiming--

"De Lord bress you, Doctor, for opening de prison for dem dat is bound! I b'liebes in you now,
Doctor. I's gwine to b'liebe ebery word you say. I'll say de Catechize now,--fix it any way
you like. I did eat dat ar' apple,--I eat de whole tree, an' swallowed ebery bit ob it, if
you say so."

And this very thorough profession of faith was followed, on the part of Candace, by years of
the most strenuous orthodoxy. Her general mode of expressing her mind on the subject was short
and definitive.

"Law me! what's de use? I's set out to b'liebe de Catechize, an' I'm gwine to bliebe it,--so!"

While we have been telling you all this about her, she has fastened her horse, and is swinging
leisurely up to the house with a basket on either arm.

"Good morning, Candace," said Mrs. Scudder. "What brings you so early?"

"Come down 'fore light to sell my chickens an' eggs,--got a lot o' money for 'em, too. Missy
Marvyn she sent Miss Scudder some turkey-eggs, an' I brought down some o' my doughnuts for
de Doctor. Good folks must lib, you know, as well as wicked ones,"--and Candace gave a hearty,
unctuous laugh. "No reason why Doctors shouldn't hab good tings as well as sinners, is dere?"--and
she shook in great billows, and showed her white teeth in the abandon of her laugh. "Lor bress
ye, honey, chile!" she said, turning to Mary, "why, ye looks like a new rose, ebery bit! Don't
wonder somebody was allers pryin' an' spyin' about here!"

"How is your Mistress, Candace?" said Mrs. Scudder, by way of changing the subject.

"Well, porly,--rader porly. When Massa Jim goes, 'pears like takin' de light right out her
eyes. Dat ar' boy trains roun' arter his mudder like a cosset, he does. Lor', de house seems
so still widout him!--can't a fly scratch his ear but it starts a body. Missy Marvyn she sent
down, an' says, would you an' de Doctor an' Miss Mary please come to tea dis arternoon."

"Thank your mistress, Candace," said Mrs. Scudder; "Mary and I will come,--and the Doctor,
perhaps," looking at the good man, who had relapsed into meditation, and was eating his breakfast
without taking note of anything going on. "It will be time enough to tell him of it," she said
to Mary, "when we have to wake him up to dress; so we won't disturb him now."

To Mary the prospect of the visit was a pleasant one, for reasons which she scarce gave a definite
form to. Of course, like a good girl, she had come to a fixed and settled resolution to think
of James as little as possible; but when the path of duty lay directly along scenes and among
people fitted to recall him, it was more agreeable than if it had lain in another direction.
Added to this, a very tender and silent friendship subsisted between Mrs. Marvyn and Mary;
in which, besides similarity of mind and intellectual pursuits, there was a deep, unspoken
element of sympathy.

Candace watched the light in Mary's eyes with the instinctive shrewdness by which her race
seem to divine the thoughts and feelings of their superiors, and chuckled to herself internally.
Without ever having been made a confidante by any party, or having a word said to or before
her, still the whole position of affairs was as clear to her as if she had seen it on a map.
She had appreciated at once Mrs. Scudder's coolness, James's devotion, and Mary's perplexity,--and
inly resolved, that, if the little maiden did not think of James in his absence, it should
not be her fault.

"Laws, Miss Scudder," she said, "I's right glad you's comin'; 'cause you hasn't seen how we's
kind o' splendified since Massa Jim come home. You wouldn't know it. Why, he's got mats from
Mogadore on all de entries, and a great big 'un on de parlor; and ye ought to see de shawl
he brought Missus, an' all de cur'us kind o' tings to de Squire. 'Tell ye, dat ar' boy honors
his fader and mudder, ef he don't do nuffin else,--an' dat's de fus' commandment wid promise,
Ma'am; an' to see him a-settin' up ebery day in prayer-time, so handsome, holdin' Missus's
han', an' lookin' right into her eyes all de time! Why, dat ar' boy is one o' de 'lect,--it's
jest as clare to me; and de 'lect has got to come in,--dat's what I say. My faith's strong,--real
clare, 'tell ye," she added, with the triumphant laugh which usually chorused her conversation,
and turning to the Doctor, who, aroused by her loud and vigorous strain, was attending with
interest to her.

"Well, Candace," he said, "we all hope you are right."

"Hope, Doctor!--I don't hope,--I knows. 'Tell ye, when I pray for him, don't I feel enlarged?
'Tell ye, it goes wid a rush. I can feel it gwine up like a rushin', mighty wind. I feels strong,
I do."

"That's right, Candace," said the Doctor, "keep on; your prayers stand as much chance with
God as if you were a crowned queen. The Lord is no respecter of persons."

"Dat's what he a'n't, Doctor,--an' dere's where I 'gree wid him," said Candace, as she gathered
her baskets vigorously together, and, after a sweeping curtsy, went sailing down to her wagon,
full laden with content, shouting a hearty "Good mornin', Missus," with the full power of her
cheerful lungs, as she rode off.

As the Doctor looked after her, the simple, pleased expression with which he had watched her
gradually faded, and there passed over his broad, good face a shadow, as of a cloud on a mountain-side.

"What a shame it is," he said, "what a scandal and disgrace to the Protestant religion, that
Christians of America should openly practise and countenance this enslaving of the Africans!
I have for a long time holden my peace,--may the Lord forgive me!--but I believe the time is
coming when I must utter my voice. I cannot go down to the wharves or among the shipping, without
these poor dumb creatures look at me so that I am ashamed,--as if they asked me what I, a Christian
minister, was doing, that I did not come to their help. I must testify."

Mrs. Scudder looked grave at this earnest announcement; she had heard many like it before,
and they always filled her with alarm, because--Shall we tell you why?

