Perceiving that our abode in this place might be of some duration, we for the first time pitched
our tents on shore. Our morning and evening devotion was attended by the whole party; and on
Sundays we read the Litany, and conducted the service in the usual way, which proved to us
and our Esquimaux of great comfort and encouragement in all difficulties. We were detained
here, by the ice, from the 3d to the 15th, and our faith and patience were frequently put to
the trial. Meanwhile we found much pleasure in walking up the declivities of the hills, and
into the fine green and flowery vallies around us.

5th. We went up the western extremity of the bay, but found nothing worth notice. Here the
rocks appeared to be of a species of freestone.

6th. In the evening we met in Jonathan's tent. Brother Kohlmeister addressed the company, and
reminded them, that to-day the holy communion would be celebrated in our congregations, which
we could not do in this place, under present circumstances. Then kneeling down, he offered
up a fervent prayer, entreating the Lord not to forget us in this wilderness, but to give us
to feel His all-reviving presence, and to feed our hungry and thirsty souls, out of the fulness
of His grace. A comfortable sense of His love and peace filled all our hearts on this occasion.

In the evening, Paul began to read out of the Harmony of the four Evangelists, which we shall
continue as often as circumstances will admit of it. Jonathan and Jonas generally conduct the
daily morning and evening worship.

7th. We were so hard pressed by the ice driving towards us, that we were obliged in part to
unload the boat, to be able to bring it into a safer situation in shallow water; and took our
turns, three relieving three, to watch and guard off the larger shoals with boat-hooks, by
day and night. We were glad to have reached a place, sheltered on all sides from the wind.

8th. Our people went out to look for reindeer, and no prospect of our proceeding to sea appearing,
they resolved to stay out all night.

9th. Jonas returned and reported, that they had seen reindeer, but were not able to shoot any.
Paul and Thukkekina went to-day to the western mountains, and staid over night.

10th. Brother Kmoch went to the westward to look for birds. He saw a large flight of sea-fowl,
but they were extremely shy, and would not permit him to get near them. From the hills around
us, we perceived that the entrance into the bay was completely blocked up with ice; and towards
the sea, nothing but one continued field of ice appeared. We sighed and prayed to the Lord
to help us in this time of need. Jonas went out in his kayak, and shot an ugsuk, not far from
our tent. Towards evening, we saw a fire made by our reindeer-hunters, at the western extremity
of the bay, and they fired their pieces to give us notice, that they had got some game, and
that we should fetch it with the small boat.

Okkiksuk therefore went, and found them completely overcome with fatigue, having dragged their
game, across the mountains for a considerable distance. The Esquimaux are indeed able to carry
burdens up and down hill, under which most Europeans would sink, but when they kill a deer
far inland, it is hard-earned food, by the trouble of carrying it home. Paul had shot two reindeer,
of which we received a portion. Brother Kohlmeister had been on the other side of the bay,
and returned with a large parcel of plants and flowers, the examination of which afforded him
much amusement.

The Esquimaux now boiled a large kettle full of seal's flesh, of which we were invited to partake.
This we did, and thought it a very palatable mess, particularly as we had tasted no fresh meat
since we had left the North Ikkerasak. The prejudice of the Europeans against seal's flesh,
consists mostly in imagination. The dirty kettle in which the Esquimaux boil it, is indeed
not calculated to excite an appetite, but the meat, when eaten fresh, tastes much like beef;
when cold, it acquires an oily taste; nor durst a person, not accustomed to it from his childhood,
make a practice of eating it, as it is of a very heating nature, and would soon bring on serious
disorders. It generally prevents sleep, if eaten at supper.

12th. The wind became West, and cleared the bay of the ice. Brother Kmoch and Jonathan went
to the opposite shore and found winter-houses, one of which had been inhabited last winter;
two others were in ruins. They climbed the highest eminence towards Nachvak, but saw nothing
but drift-ice, covering the sea, with but few spots of open water, to the north.

13th. It blew hard from the West. David and Okkiksuk crossed the bay to explore the state of
the ice from the hills. In the evening they returned with intelligence, that the sea was cleared
of ice to the northward. David had caught a netsek, (a small species of seal), and we had taken
a good draught of trout in the net before our tent.

14th. Jonathan roused us at four in the morning, the wind being in our favour, and we immediately
made preparations to depart. After breakfast, as we were praying the Litany, a sudden storm
arose. We were assembled in Jonathan's tent, and the stones and pegs, with which it had been
fastened down to the ground, being already removed, the tent-skins were soon blown about our
heads by the violence of the wind, and we were now obliged patiently to wait till the storm
abated. In the midst of our deliberations, accompanied with expressions of our disappointment,
Thukkekina gravely observed, that we might very likely get away this summer, and need not be
dismayed. Towards evening, it fell calm, and the musquitoes teazed us unmercifully. We supped
on fresh salmon, filled our tents with smoke, to keep off our winged tormentors, shut ourselves
in, and forgot our grievances and Thukkekina's consolations in sound sleep.

15th. In the morning at three o'clock, we took a final leave of Nullatartok bay, and got under
way with a favourable, though rather boisterous wind at S.W. having been detained here for
twelve days by the ice. After about an hour's sail, we were near the entrance of the inlet,
when a sudden gust from the mountains carried away our after-top-mast, with sail and tackle.
It fell with great noise on the deck, and into the sea. By God's mercy no one was hurt, and
we were more particularly thankful, that of the five children on board, none were just then
on deck.

It once happened, that the main-yard fell down, and but narrowly missed striking two children,
who with a third were sitting and playing together. They must inevitably have lost their lives,
had it fallen upon them. We praised God for their preservation during the whole voyage. By
the above-mentioned disaster, we were obliged to run into a small cove, where we repaired the
mast with all speed, and proceeded with a gentle wind towards Nachvak. A calm ensued, and as
there is no anchorage between Nullatartok and Nachvak, we rowed all night, and felt the advantage
of the great length of days, at this season of the year.

16th. The view we had of the magnificent mountains of Nachvak, especially about sun-rise, afforded
us and our Esquimaux great gratification. Their south-east extremity much resembles Saddle
island near Okkak, being high, steep, and of singular shape. These mountains in general are
not unlike those of Kaumayok for picturesque outline. In one place, tremendous precipices form
a vast amphitheatre, surmounted by a ledge of green sod, which seemed to be the resort of an
immense number of sea-gulls and other fowls, never interrupted by the intrusion of man. They
flew with loud screams backwards and forwards over our heads, as if to warn off such unwelcome
visitors. In another place, a narrow chasm opens into the mountain, widening into a lagoon,
the surrounding rocks resembling the ruins of a large Gothic building, with the green ocean
for its pavement, and the sky for its dome. The weather being fine, and the sun cheering us
with his bright rays, after a cold and sleepless night, we seemed to acquire new vigour, by
the contemplation of the grand features of nature around us. We now perceived some Esquimaux
with a woman's boat, in a small bay, preparing to steer for Nachvak. They fired their pieces,
and called to us to join them, as they had discovered a stranded whale. Going on shore to survey
the remains of this huge animal, we found it by no means a pleasant sight. It lay upon the
rocks, occupying a space about thirty feet in diameter, but was much shattered, and in a decaying
state. Our people, however, cut off a quantity of blubber from its lips. The greater part of
the blubber of this fish was lost, as the Esquimaux had no means of conveying it to Okkak.

The Esquimaux stationed here showed great willingness to assist us; and as our party was much
fatigued with rowing all night, they towed us into Nachvak, where we arrived about 2 P.M. Old
Kayaluk and a young man, Parnguna, and his wife, were here. The latter called on Brother Kohlmeister,
and thanked him for having saved her life. He had forgotten that he had once given her medicine
at Okkak in a dangerous illness, but her gratitude was still unbounded.

July 16th.--After two or three hours sleep in our cabin, we went on shore. The Esquimaux, who
had here a temporary station, about fifty in number, received us with every mark of attention.
Loud shouts of joy resounded from all quarters, and muskets were fired in every direction.
They could scarcely wait with patience for our landing, and when we pitched our tent, were
all eager to assist; thus we were soon at home among them. Seven tents were standing on the
strand, and we found the people here differing much in their manners from the people at Saeglek.
Their behaviour was modest and rather bashful, nor were we assailed by beggars and importunate
intruders, as at the latter place, where beggary seemed quite the fashion, and proved very
troublesome to us. Indeed, to our great surprise, they behaved altogether with uncommon decorum
and regularity during our stay.

17th. Being detained with drift-ice at the mouth of the bay, we pitched our tent on shore.
We examined the bay more minutely. It extends to the West to a considerable depth, and is not
protected by any islands, except a few rocks, at some distance in the sea. The surrounding
mountains are very high, steep, and barren, and verdure is found only in the vallies. Here
the arnica montana, which the Missionaries have found of great use among the Esquimaux, grows
in great abundance. Salmon-trout are caught in every creek and inlet. The immense abundance
of these fish on all parts of the coast, would almost at any time save the Esquimaux from starving
with hunger; but as seals furnish them both with food and clothing, it is of most consequence
to them to attend to this branch of supply. At Hopedale and Nain, however, salmon-trout are
caught only in the summer.

We were much pleased with the behaviour of our own Esquimaux, during their stay at Nachvak.
In every respect they conducted themselves, in word and deed, as true Christian people. Their
conversation with their heathen countrymen, was free and unreserved, and "to the use of edifying."
Jonathan and Jonas in particular, gave us great satisfaction.

