THE FALLEN STAR, or, THE HISTORY OF A FALSE RELIGION

by E. L. Bulwer

and,

A DISSERTATION ON THE ORIGIN OF EVIL

by Lord Brougham

PUBLISHER'S PREFACE

RELIGION, says Noah Webster in his American Dictionary of the English Language, is derived
from "Religo, to bind anew;" and, in this History of a False Religion, our author has shown
how easily its votaries were insnared, deceived, and mentally bound in a labyrinth of falsehood
and error, by a designing knave, who established a new religion and a new order of priesthood
by imposing on their ignorance and credulity.

The history of the origin of one supernatural religion will, with slight alterations, serve
to describe them all. Their claim to credence rests on the exhibition of so-called miracles--that
is, on a violation of the laws of nature,--for, if religions were founded on the demonstrated
truths of science, there would be no mystery, no supernaturalism, no miracles, no skepticism,
no false religion. We would have only verified truths and demonstrated facts for the basis
of our belief. But this simple foundation does not satisfy the unreasoning multitude. They
demand signs, portents, mysteries, wonders and miracles for their faith and the supply of prophets,
knaves and impostors has always been found ample to satisfy this abnormal demand of credulity.

Designing men, even at the present day, find little difficulty in establishing new systems
of faith and belief. Joseph Smith, who invented the Mormon religion, had more followers and
influence in this country at his death, than the Carpenter's Son obtained centuries ago from
the unlettered inhabitants of Palestine; and yet Smith achieved his success among educated
people in this so-called enlightened age, while Jesus taught in an age of semi-barbarism and
faith, when both Jews and Pagans asserted and believed that beasts, birds, reptiles and even
fishes understood human language, were often gifted with human speech, and sometimes seemed
to possess even more than ordinary human intelligence.

They taught that the serpent, using the language of sophistry, beguiled Eve in Eden, who in
turn corrupted Adam, her first and only husband. At the baptism of Jesus by John in the river
Jordan, the voice of a dove resounded in the heavens, saying, quite audibly and distinctly,
"Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased." Balaam disputed with his patient beast
of burden, on their celebrated journey in the land of Moab, and the ass proved wiser in the
argument that ensued than the inspired prophet who bestrode him, The great fish Oannes left
his native element and taught philosophy to the Chaldeans on dry land. One reputable woman,
of Jewish lineage,--the mother of an interesting family--was changed to a pillar of salt in
Sodom while another female of great notoriety known to fame as the celebrated "Witch of Endor,"
raised Samuel from his grave in Ramah. Saint Peter found a shilling in the mouth of a fish
which he caught in the Sea of Galilee, and this lucky incident enabled the impecunious apostle
to pay the "tribute money" in Capernaum. Another famous Israelite,--so it is said,--broke the
record of balloon ascensions in Judea, and ascended into heaven in a chariot of fire.

In an age of ignorance wonders abound, prodigies occur, and miracles become common, The untaught
masses are easily deceived, and their unreasoning credulity enables them to proudly boast of
their unquestioning faith. When their feelings are excited and their passions aroused by professional
evangelists, they even profess to believe that which they cannot comprehend; and, in the satirical
language of Bulwer, they endeavor to "assist their ignorance by the conjectures of their superstition."

