THE SIX QUIMBLETONS or The Decanterbury Pilgrims In Their Artistic Revival Of Old and Entertaining
Customs, Tableaux Vivants Vanished Arts, Folklore Games and Conjuring Tricks Such as The Drinking
of Healths, Toasts, Nosepainting, The Lifted Elbow, Let's Match For It, Say When, Light or
Dark? and This One's On Me. COMMUNION WITH DEPARTED SPIRITS Please Do Not Leave Before the
Hat Goes Round

Having taken their station in some not too prominent place, Bleak would mount the wheelbarrow
and play Coming Through the Rye on a jew's-harp. This, his sole musical accomplishment, was
exceedingly distasteful to him: all his training had been in the anonymity of a newspaper office,
and he felt his public humiliation bitterly.

When a crowd had gathered, Quimbleton would ascend the barrow and make a brief speech (of a
highly inflammatory and treasonable nature) after which he would set up the small table and
the brass rail, produce a white apron and a tumbler from his knapsack, and introduce Theodolinda
for an alcoholic trance. It was found that the public entered into the spirit of these seances
with great gusto, and often the collection taken up was gratifyingly large. However, the life
was hazardous in the extreme, and they were in perpetual danger of meeting secret service agents.
It was only by repeated private trances of their own that they were able to keep up their morale.

Reaching a bend in the way, where a grove of trees cast a grateful shade, the Decanterbury
Pilgrims halted to rest. Quimbleton helped Theodolinda down from her horse, and they all sat
sadly by the roadside.

"Theo," said Quimbleton, as he wiped his brow, "do you think, dear, that if I set up the table
you could give us a little trance? Upon my soul, I am nearly done in."

"Darling Virgil," said Theodolinda, "I really can't do it. You know I've given you four trances
already this morning, and you have communed with the soul of Wurzburger at least a dozen times.
Then, as you know, I have put Mr. Bleak in touch with a julep six or seven times. All that
takes it out of me dreadfully. I really must consider my art a bit: I don't want to be a mere
psychic bartender, a clairvoyant distiller."

"You are quite right, dear girl," said Quimbleton remorsefully. "But I couldn't help thinking
how agreeable a psychical seidel of dark beer would be just now. You are our little Jeanne
Dark, you know," he added, with an atrocious attempt at pleasantry.

"That's all very well," said Bleak (who preferred julep to beer), "but if we don't look out
Miss Chuff will go into a permanent trance. I've noticed it has been harder and harder to bring
her back from these states of suspended sobriety. You know, if we crowd these phantasms of
the grape upon her too fast, she might pass over altogether, and stay behind the bar for good.
We are deeply indebted to Miss Chuff for her adorable willingness to act as a kind of bunghole
into the spirit world, but we don't want her to slip through the hole and evaporate."

"Safety thirst!" cried Quimbleton, raising his loved one to his lips.

"We can't go on like this indefinitely," continued Bleak. "I don't mind being a mountebank,
but mountebanks don't pay much interest. I'd rather be a safe deposit somewhere out of Chuff's
reach. There's too much drama in this way of living."

"I can stand the drama as long as I get the drams," said the unrepentant Quimbleton.

"Well, I won't stand it!" exclaimed Mrs. Bleak, shrilly. "Look what your insane schemes have
brought us to! You and my husband seem to find comfort in your psychical toping, but I don't
notice any psychical millinery being draped about for Miss Chuff or myself. And look at the
children! They're simply in rags. If you really loved Miss Chuff I should think you'd be ashamed
to use her as a spiritual demijohn! You've alienated her from her father, and reduced my husband
from managing editor of a leading paper to managing jew's-harpist of a gang of psychic bootleggers."
She burst into angry tears.

Quimbleton groaned, and turned a ghastly fade upon Bleak.

"It's quite true," he said.

In the excitement Miss Chuff had turned very pale.

"Virgil," she said faintly, "I believe I feel a trance coming on."

"Great grief!" cried the harassed leader. "Not now, my darling! I think I see some troops in
the distance. Quick, try to concentrate your mind on lemonade, on buttermilk, on beef tea!"

Happily this crisis passed. Theodolinda had presence of mind enough to pull out a little photograph
of her father from some secret hiding place, and by putting her mind on it shook off the dominion
of the other world.

Quimbleton spoke with anguished remorse.

"Mrs. Bleak is right. I've been trying to hide it from myself, but I can do so no longer. This
monkey business--what we might call this gorilla warfare--must stop. We will only land in front
of a firing squad. I have only one idea, which I have been saving in case all else failed."

The Bleaks were too discouraged to comment, but Theodolinda smiled bravely.

"Virgil dear," she said, "your ideas are always so original. What is it?"

Quimbleton stood up, unconsciously putting one foot on the portable brass rail which rested
on its six-inch legs by the roadside. His tired eyes shone anew with characteristic enthusiasm.
It was plain that he imagined himself before a large and sympathetic audience.

"My friends," he said, "the secret of eloquence is to know your facts--or, as the all-powerful
Chuff would amend it, to know your tracts. One fact, I think I may say, is plain. The jig is
up, or (more literally), the jag is up. I can see now that alcohol will never be more than
a memory. Principalities and powers are in league against us. If the malt has lost its favor,
wherewith shall it be malted?"

He paused a moment, as though expecting a little applause, and Theodolinda murmured an encouraging
"Here, here."

With rekindled eye he resumed.

"Alcohol, I say, will never be more than a memory. Yet even a memory must be kept alive. The
great tradition must not die. For the very sake of antiquarian accuracy, for the instruction
of posterity, some exact record must be kept of the influence of alcohol upon the human soul.
How can this be preserved? Not in books, not in the dead mummies of a museum. No, not in dead
mummies, indeed, but in living rummies. That brings me to my great idea, which I have long
cherished.

"I propose, my dear friends, that in some appropriate shrine, surrounded by all the authentic
trappings and utensils, some chosen individual be maintained at the public charge, to exhibit
for the contemplation of a drouthing world the immortal flame of intoxication. He will be known,
without soft concealments, as the Perpetual Souse. In his little bar, served by austere attendants,
he will be kept in a state of gentle exhilaration. Nothing gross, nothing unseemly, I insist!
In that state of sweetly glowing mind and heart, in that ineffable blossoming of all the nobler
qualities of human dignity, this priest of alcohol will represent and perpetuate the virtues
of the grape. Booze, in the general sense, will have gone West, but ah how fair and ruddy a
sunset will it have in the person of this its vicar! There he will live, visited, studied,
revered, a living memorial. There he will live, perpetually in a mellow fume of bliss, trailing
clouds of glory, as if--as some poet says,

    As if his whole vocation
    Were endless intoxication.

And now, my friends--not to weary you with the minor details of this far-reaching proposal--let
me come to the point. For so gravely responsible a post, for an office so representative of
the ideals and ambitions of millions, the choice cannot be cast haphazard. The choice must
fall upon one qualified, confirmed, consecrated to this end. This deeply significant office
must be conferred by the people themselves. It must be conferred by popular election. Candidates
must be nominated, must stump the country explaining their qualifications. And let me say that,
upon looking over the whole field, I see one man, who by the jury of his peers--or shall I
say by the jury of his beers?--is supremely fitted for this post. It is my intention to nominate
Mr. Dunraven Bleak for the office of Perpetual Souse."

There was a moment of complete silence while his hearers considered the vast scope of this
remarkable suggestion. It is only fair to say that Mr. Bleak's face had at first lighted up,
but then he glanced at his wife and his countenance grew pinched. He spoke hastily:

"A very generous thought, my dear fellow; but I feel that you would be far more competent for
this form of public service than I could hope to be."

"Your modesty does you credit," replied Quimbleton, "but you forget that owing to my relation
with Miss Chuff I shall happily be precluded from the necessity of entering public life for
this purpose."

"And what, pray," said Mrs. Bleak with distinct asperity, "is to become of me and the children
if Mr. Bleak is elected to this preposterous office?"

"I was coming to that," said Quimbleton eagerly. "It would be arranged, of course, that the
Perpetual Souse would be granted a liberal salary for his family expenses; you and your delightful
children would be maintained at the public expense in a suitable bungalow nearby, with a private
family entrance into the official cellars. Your rank, of course, would be that of Perpetual
Spouse."

"My good Quimbleton," said Bleak, somewhat bitterly, "this is a fascinating vision indeed,
but how can it be accomplished? How would you ever get such a scheme accepted by Bishop Chuff,
who will never forgive you for kidnaping his daughter? You are building bar-rooms in Spain,
my dear chap; you are blowing mere soap-bubbles."

"And why not?" cried his friend. "Bishop Chuff has called me a soap-box orator. At any rate,
a man who stands upon a soap-box is nearer heaven by several inches than the man who stands
upon the ground."

Theodolinda's face sparkled with the impact of an idea.

"Come," she said, "it's not impossible after all. I have a thought. We'll offer Father an armistice
and talk things over with him. He doesn't know what straits we're in, and maybe we can bring
him to terms. He was very badly scared by those gooseberry bombs, and maybe we can bluff him
into a concession."

"If we had had any luck," said Quimbleton, "we would have blown him into a concussion. But
anyway, that's a bonny scheme. We'll grant him a truce. Bleak, you're a newspaper man, just
get hold of the United Press and let them know the armistice is signed."

Bleak smiled wanly at the thrust.

"All right," he said. "Let's go. But what's your idea, Miss Chuff? We must have something to
base negotiations on."

"Wait and see," she cried gayly. "We'll talk it over as we go along."

Mrs. Bleak aroused her children, who had fallen asleep, and climbed back into the wheelbarrow.

"I don't know that I approve of that scheme of making Dunraven the Perpetual Souse," she remarked.
"I can imagine what my poor mother would say about it if she were living. She came of fine
old Kentucky stock, and it would humiliate her deeply to know to what a level we had been reduced."

"My dear Mrs. Bleak," said Quimbleton, as he hoisted his betrothed into the saddle and the
pilgrims began to move, "I know of a great deal of good old Kentucky stock that has had a far
worse fate than that in these tragic years."

CHAPTER VIII

WITH BENEFIT OF CLERGY

Through the sullen streets of the terrorized city Miss Chuff, Quimbleton and Bleak proceeded
toward the great building where the Pan-Antis had their headquarters. They had left Mrs. Bleak,
the children and the horse at a quiet soda-fountain in the suburbs. After repeated application
over the wireless telephone, the terrible Bishop--the Prohibishop, as Quimbleton called him--had
agreed to grant them an audience, and had accorded them safe-conduct through the chuff troops.
Even so, their progress was difficult. Every few hundred yards they were halted and subjected
to curt inquiry. Men and women who had heard of their gallant struggle against fearful odds
pressed forward in an attempt to seize their hands, to embrace and applaud them, but these
evidences of enthusiasm were sternly repressed by the chuffs.

Bleak was frankly nervous as they approached the Chuff Building.

"What line of talk are we going to adopt?" he asked.

"Like any self-respecting line," replied Quimbleton, "Ours will be the shortest distance between
two points. The first point is that we want to obtain something from Chuff. The second is that
we have some information to give him which will be of immense value to him. This we shall hold
over him as a club, to force him to concede what we want."

"And what is this club?" asked Bleak, somewhat suspicious of his friend's sanguine disposition.

"The admirable plan," said Quimbleton, "is Theodolinda's idea. She knows her father better
than we do. She says that his passion is for prohibiting things. He thinks he has now prohibited
everything possible. We are in a position to tell him something that still remains unprohibited.
His eagerness to know what that may be will make him yield to our request."

Bleak pondered gloomily. As far as he could recall, the Prohibition Government had overlooked
nothing. The quaint part of it was that some of its prohibitions, carried to their logical
extreme, had curiously overleaped their mark. For instance, finding it impossible to enforce
the laws against playing games on Sundays, the Government had concluded that the only way to
make the Sabbath utterly immaculate was to abolish it altogether, which was done. Other laws,
probably based upon genuine zeal for human welfare, had resulted in odd evasions or legal fictions.
For instance, people were forbidden to miss trains. The penalty for missing a train was ten
days' hard labor splitting infinitives in the government tract-factory. Rather than impose
this harsh punishment on any one, good-hearted engineers would permit their trains to loiter
about the stations until they felt certain no other passengers would turn up. Consequently
no trains were ever on time, and the Government was forced to do away with time entirely. Another
thing that was abolished was hot weather. It had been found too tedious to tilt the axis of
the earth, therefore all the thermometers were re-scaled. When the temperature was really 96
degrees, the mercury registered only 70 degrees, and every one was saying how jolly cool it
was for the time of year. This, of course, was careless, for there was no such thing as time
or year, but still people kept on saying it. Bleak was thinking over these matters when he
suddenly recalled that it was forbidden to remember things as they had been under the old regime.
He pulled himself up with a start. In order to make his mind a blank he tried to imagine himself
about to write a leading editorial for the Balloon. This was so successful that he did not
come to earth again until they stood in the ante-room--or as Quimbleton called it, the anti-room--of
the Bishop.

"Who is to be spokesman?" he said apprehensively, gazing with distaste at the angular females
who were pecking at typewriters. "It would be unseemly for me to present my own claims in this
project. Quimbleton, you are the one--you have the gift of the tongue."

"I would rather have the gift of the bung," whispered Quimbleton resolutely as they were ushered
into the inner sanctum.

