Friday, 16th December, Louden Springs. Finished Number 4 run. To-day we have discovered a large
fresh-water hole in a creek joining the George and coming from the south-west. The water seems
to be permanent; it is half a mile long and seems to be deep. On the banks a number of natives
have been encamped; round about their fires were large quantities of the shells of the fresh-water
mussel, the fish from which they had been eating: I should think this a very good proof of
the water being permanent. After finishing the survey I followed the creek up for a number
of miles in search of more water, but could find none. It spread into a number of courses over
a large plain, on which there was splendid feed.

Saturday, 17th December, Louden Springs. Started for the springs under Mount Margaret to finish
the western boundary of Number 1 run. Arrived towards sundown. Found the creek occupied by
natives, who, as soon as they caught sight of us, bolted to the hill and got upon the top of
a high cliff, and there remained for some time, having a good view of us. I did everything
in my power to induce them to come down to us, but they would not, and beckoned us to be off
back the road we came. At night they had fires round us, but at some distance off.

Sunday, 18th December, Mount Margaret. About 9 a.m. the natives made their appearance on the
hill, and made signs for us to be off; they were eight in number. I found that we had camped
close to a large quantity of acacia seed that they had been preparing when we arrived, but
had no time to carry it away before we were on them. One old fellow was very talkative. I went
towards them to try and make friends with them, but they all took to the hills. By signs I
induced the old fellow to stop, and in a short time got him to come a little nearer. When I
came to the steep bank of the creek he made signs for me to come no further. I showed him I
had no arms with me, and wished him to come up. I could understand him so far that he wished
us to go away, that they might get their seed. I thought it as well not to aggravate them,
but to show them that we came as friends; and as I had completed all I had to do here, I moved
the camp towards the Freeling Springs, at which they seemed very glad, and made signs for us
to come back at sundown. They seemed to be a larger race than those down below; the men are
tall and muscular, the females are low in stature and thin. I examined the Mount Margaret range
in going along; there are a number of gum creeks coming from the north side which flow into
the Neale. We searched them up and down, but could find no water. The number of channels that
join them in the range is so great that it would take weeks to examine them minutely for water.
We camped in one of them without water, although the country promises well for it.

Monday, 19th December, Gum Creek. Started on a north-west course to examine the country between
this and the Mount Younghusband range. We could see no springs until we reached the Blyth,
in which there is water, but a little brackish; it will do well for cattle. Rode through the
middle of the range, and came upon some horse-tracks, not very old; saw where the party had
camped, and a cairn of stones they had erected on the top of one of the hills. Followed their
tracks some distance down the gully; they seemed to be going to the Burrow Springs; they appear,
however, to have gone back again. Left the tracks, and proceeded to the Freeling Springs. Arrived
there in the afternoon. No one has been here since I was, as far as I can see. The country
we have passed over yesterday and to-day has been really splendid for feed. The springs continue
the same, running in a strong stream and of the finest quality.

Tuesday, 20th December, Freeling Springs. Sent Kekwick and one of the men to examine the goldfield,
and to select a place for sinking to-morrow morning. My eyes were so bad that I was unable
to go. They returned in the afternoon, bringing with them samples from the quartz reefs, in
which there was the appearance of gold. Kekwick said he had not seen such good quartz since
he left the diggings in Victoria. There was every indication of gold, and I determined to give
the place a good trial before leaving it.

Wednesday, 21st December, Freeling Springs. Commenced digging, but found the rocks too near.
Surface indications were very slight here, but I found another place which seemed to promise
better, so began sinking there, and at four feet came upon some large boulders, round which
was very good-looking stuff for washing; took some of it to camp and washed it. No gold, but
good indications; a quantity of black sand and emery, also other good signs. I shall continue
the hole, and see what is in the bottom. Thunderstorm this afternoon; south-west hot wind.

Thursday, 22nd December, Freeling Springs. Occupied in sinking, but made little progress in
consequence of the stones being so large, and the want of proper tools, crowbar, etc. Washed
some more stuff from round about the boulders; the produce same as yesterday; no gold.

Friday, December 23rd, Freeling Springs. Found that we could do nothing with the stones with
the tools we have. Examined the country round about, and found another place, which will be
commenced to-morrow. Examined a quartz reef which had every indication of gold. I regretted
that I had not another man, so that I might be able to examine the country for some distance
round. It is necessary to have two men at the camp, which cannot be moved to where we are sinking,
as there is no water within two miles. It would not be safe to leave the camp with one man
only, and two digging, which is all our strength. Heavy thunderstorm from the south-west, but
very little rain. The wind blew my tent in two. At sundown it passed over and cleared up, which
I regretted to see, as I expected heavy rains at this season, to enable me to make for the
north or north-west.

Saturday, 24th December, Freeling Springs. Sank upwards of six feet through gravel, shingle,
stones, and quartz. Wind south-west. Heavy clouds; wind hot.

Sunday, 25th December, Freeling Springs. Wind south; heavy clouds, but no rain; towards evening
changed to south-east. Cool.

Monday, 26th December, Freeling Springs. Got to the bottom of the hole; washed the stuff, but
no gold. Commenced another hole by the side of the quartz reef, which looks well. In the morning
the wind was from the north; at 10 a.m. it suddenly changed to south, and blew a perfect hurricane
during the whole day, with heavy clouds; but no rain has fallen.

Tuesday, 27th December, Freeling Springs. The storm continued during the night, until about
3 o'clock this morning, when a few drops of rain fell, but not enough to be of any service
to me. Bottomed the hole by the side of the quartz reef: no gold, and I think we shall not
be able to sink any more; our tools are getting worn out. For the rest of the day examined
the quartz reef, in which there is every appearance of gold; I shall stop the search for it
and proceed to the north-east to-morrow, for I think some rain has fallen in that direction,
which will enable me to examine the country and see if the lake still continues.

Wednesday, 28th December, Freeling Springs. At 7 a.m. started with Kekwick on a north-east
course. At seven miles crossed the Neale, spread over a large grassy plain four miles broad,
and ascended a low ridge of table-topped hills, stony, with salt-bush and grassed. Crossed
another creek, at twenty miles, with myall and stunted gums running over a plain in numerous
courses. Plenty of grass but no water. After crossing it, ascended a high peak, which I supposed
to be the top of the Hanson range, but found another long table-topped hill, higher, about
three miles distant. Ascended that, but could see nothing but more table-topped ranges in the
distance. This hill is thirty-five miles from Freeling Springs. Searched for water, and after
some time found a little water in one of the creeks, where we camped, it being after sundown.
The country from the last creek is not so good, and very stony, so much so that it has lamed
my horse, and nearly worn his shoes through at the tips. The horses have drunk all the water,
and left none for the morning.

Thursday, 29th December, Hanson Range. Started at 6 a.m. on the same course for another part
of the range. At six miles crossed a grassy creek of several channels, with myall and gum,
but no water, running to north-east, nearly along our line. At seventeen miles struck the same
creek again where it is joined with several others coming from the west-north-west and north.
They are spread over a large broad plain covered with grass. Searched for water, but could
not find any. Crossed the plains and creeks to a white hill on a north course, and at three
miles reached the top; it was a low chalky cliff on the banks of the creek. Changed our course
to the first hill I had taken. At seven miles and a half reached the top, which I found very
stony. To the north can be seen the points of three other table-topped hills; to the north-east
is a large stony plain about ten miles broad, beyond which are high sand hills, and beyond
them again, in the far distance, is the luminous appearance of water. Not being on the highest
part of the range I proceeded two miles to the south-east to get a better view. From here we
could see the creek, winding in a south-east direction, until it reached the lake, which seemed
to be about twenty-five miles off. We could not distinctly see it, the mirage and sand hills
obscuring our view. My horse having lost both his fore shoes and there being no prospect of
water further on, I was reluctantly obliged to return to the camp. We had seen a little rain
water on the plain, about seven miles back, at which we decided to camp to-night. Arrived there
a little before sundown. My horse very lame, scarcely able to walk along the stones. I am disappointed
that there is not more rain water; there seems only to have been a slight shower.

Friday, 30th December, Hanson Range. The horses having strayed some distance, we did not get
a start till half-past seven on a course of 323 degrees, to a white hill, to see whether there
are any springs on the other side; at one mile and a half reached it, but no springs. Changed
our course to a very prominent hill (which I have named Mount Arthur) bearing 275 degrees,
and after crossing two small myall creeks and a stony plain with salt bush and grass, at ten
miles we struck a large myall and gum creek, coming from the north-west, with some very deep
channels. We went some miles up it, but could find no water, the courses for the water being
too sandy and gravelly to retain it. At twenty-four miles from the last hill arrived at the
summit of Mount Arthur. Changed course to 195 degrees. At ten miles struck another myall and
gum creek of the same description as the others, coming from the range; no water. Camped. My
horse is nearly done up; I am almost afraid he will not be able to reach the camp to-morrow.

