     The Manchester Courier says: 'An attractive story of schoolboy
     life.'

     The Spectator says: 'Here we have a story of adventure, the scene
     of action being what is called the educational ladder. Bob Marchant
     wins a scholarship ... which takes him to Orville College, a
     first-grade school.... The subject is worth treating, and should
     not be less interesting than the perils by flood and field which
     commonly form the themes of these stories.'

+THE HEROISM OF LANCELOT.+ By JEANIE FERRY. With three coloured illustrations. Large crown
8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     This book will be read with eager interest and profit by all boys
     and girls. The author has produced quite a number of beautiful
     characters, and some the reverse of beautiful. Lancelot is
     undoubtedly the hero, and a splendid one, too, but there are
     several heroines who run him close in the race of unselfishness and
     purity of character. Boys will vote the book 'jolly' and
     'stunning,' and unconsciously they will have themselves imbibed a
     wholesome draught from a carefully written and good story.

+JACK SAFFORD: A Tale of the East Coast.+ By WILLIAM WEBSTER. With three coloured illustrations
by ERNEST PRATER. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     A breezy boy's book of adventures in the North Sea. It will be sure
     to interest lads who are leaving school, and are wondering what the
     future holds in store for them. Honesty, bravery, and a readiness
     to seize opportunities for advancement are upheld in this
     well-written story.

     The British Weekly says: 'The book is full of adventure, and is
     most readable.'

     The Liverpool Daily Post says: 'A story of adventure on sea and
     land, which boys will read with avidity, for Jack, among other
     things, had to find the way out of a very awkward predicament.'

LONDON: THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Boy's Own Series. 6d.

     The hero of Dr. Gordon Stables' new work is a London boy about
     whose origin there is a mystery, which is skilfully dealt with and
     satisfactorily solved. A story of the sea, which the author's many
     admirers will be eager to read.

     The Record says: 'It is a bright and breezy volume, and will
     please boys immensely.'

     The Schoolmaster says: 'This is a good rattling story of a street
     arab who has a series of interesting and exciting adventures.'

     The United Methodist says: 'Real stirring adventures are sprung
     upon us in such unique fashion that we hesitate to give prospective
     readers an inkling as to their sequence.'

+ALLAN ADAIR; or, Here and There in Many Lands.+ By GORDON STABLES, M.D., R.N., Author of 'In
the Land of the Lion and the Ostrich.' With coloured frontispiece and title-page. Large crown
8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     The Examiner says: 'Allan Adair, the only son of his widowed
     mother, distinguishes himself as a lad in helping to save a vessel
     in distress, and in return is offered a berth by the owners in one
     of their ships. Of course he accepts, and a life of world-wide
     travel and incident is the result. 6d.

     'Gallant Sir John' is a stirring, exciting tale of the days when
     Henry V. was gaining successive victories in France. At the same
     time Wyckliffe's Bible was being circulated by the Lollards, who
     were being hounded to exile, outlawry and death by the priests of
     Rome. Once begun this story will hold the reader to the end, for he
     will be taken into the very heart of those troublous times, and
     will witness many a thrilling scene.

LONDON: THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY'S OWN SERIES. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     This is one of Dr. Gordon Stables' stories of adventure. A
     middle-aged man and a couple of boys make a voyage of discovery in
     the South Seas.

+ILDERIM, THE AFGHAN. A Tale of the Indian Border.+

By DAVID KER. Illustrated. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     David Ker, the author of "The Lonely Island," has here written a
     stirring and highly imaginative tale of India and the North-West
     Frontier. The heroes are men of high character, and a bright,
     healthy moral tone is maintained throughout.
Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     The Guardian says:--"The pictures of the South Sea Islanders are
     evidently drawn from life, and the accounts of the kidnappers, both
     cannibal and slave-hunting, are well told and full of grim
     interest."

     The Methodist Times says:--"The book is a true record of the
     adventures of the son of a South Sea Island Missionary. The writer
     begins at the beginning--at his earliest whippings--and goes on
     through escapades by land and sea. He narrowly escapes poisoning by
     carea and is in an awful tornado. Perils by famine, by murder, by
     heathen superstition, by sharks, by pestilence, by white
     slave-traders, bring before the reader vividly, life as it is in
     the savage islands of the South."

THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY, LONDON.

     The Times says:--"A tale that is well-conceived and interesting."

     The Sheffield Independent says:--"A piece of masterly historical
     painting."

     The British Weekly says:--"A well written and readable book that
     conveys a great deal of instruction. The period of Charles II. has
     been very carefully studied."

+THE VOYAGE OF THE STORMY PETREL.+

By W. C. METCALF. With Three Illustrations by LANCELOT SPEED. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     The Glasgow Herald says:--"Possesses all the qualities which
     young readers for whom it is intended can best appreciate. These
     are narrow escapes and strange experiences, and adventures full of
     excitement both on land and sea. The volume has some exciting
     illustrations."

     The English Churchman says:--"A good story of adventure."

     The Liverpool Courier says:--"This is a stirring tale of an
     adventurous voyage in which exciting incidents follow one another
     in rapid succession." Large
crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

     The Sheffield Daily Independent says:--"It is a spirited story of
     the Canadian backwoods, in three sections. The characters include
     Canadian settlers and North American Indians. A number of
     well-drawn illustrations assist the young reader to realise the
     physical type of the people who move in the story."

     The Dundee Courier says:--"A sectional story of the Canadian
     backwoods and admirably told. The bush life of the settlers is
     pictured with a graphic pen, and there are a number of sensational
     episodes, a bear hunt among the number."

THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY'S OWN SERIES. 6d.

     "The Settlers of Karossa Creek" is a rattling yarn which proves
     conclusively that the right hand of Louis Becke has not lost its
     cunning. It is a book that all healthy-minded boys will revel in,
     full of stirring adventures relating to the bush life of Australia
     and the islands of the Pacific. "The Settlers of Karossa Creek"
     will stir the blood of every lad and stimulate the impulses to
     patience, endurance, brave daring, and true knightliness.

