'It is certain,' said Ampère, 'that the masters are becoming afraid of their workmen. Péreire
brings his from their residences to the Barrière Malesherbes in carriages. You are not actually
insulted in the streets of Paris, but you are treated with rude neglect. A fiacre likes to
splash you, a paveur to scatter you with mud. Louis Napoleon began with Chauvinism. He excited
all the bad international passions of the multitude. He has now taken up Sansculotteism. Repulsed
with scorn and disgust by the rich and the educated, he has thrown himself on the poor and
ignorant The passions with which he likes to work are envy, malignity, and rapacity.

'I do not believe that he feels them. He is what is called a good-natured man. That is to say,
he likes to please everyone that he sees. But his selfishness is indescribable.

'No public interest stands in the way of his slightest caprice. He often puts me in mind of
Nero. With the same indifference to the welfare of others with which Nero amused himself by
burning down Rome, he is amusing himself by pulling down Paris.'

N.W. SENIOR.

                *   *   *   *   *   *

[We left Tocqueville on the following day with great regret The same party was never to meet
again--the only survivors are Madame de Beaumont and myself and the Beaumonts' son, then a
very intelligent boy of ten years old.

One day my father and I visited the little green churchyard on a cliff near the sea where Tocqueville
is buried. The tomb is a plain grey stone slab--on it a cross is cut in bas-relief, with these
words only:--

ICI REPOSE

ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE.

NÉ 24 FEVRIER 1805. MORT 16 AVRIL 1859.

My father laid a wreath of immortelles on the tomb.--ED.]

APPENDIX.

MONTALEMBERT'S speech was afterwards published in the Moniteur but with considerable alterations.
In Mr. Senior's journal in 1854 (which has not been published), he says, under the date of
April 26, I called on Montalembert and took him my report of his speech. He has promised to
add to it any notes that it may require. "The printed report," he said, "is intentionally falsified.
Before it was struck off I asked to see the proofs. I was told that, as such an application
was new, the President of the Bureau would meet and decide on its admissibility. They decided
that it could not be granted."'

[The following is Mr. Senior's report, with M. de Montalembert's own corrections and additions
in French.--ED.]

At length Montalembert rose. He stood near the extreme right, with his side towards the tribune,
and his face towards the centre gallery, in which I sat. His voice and delivery are so good,
and the house was so silent, that I did not lose a word. I believe that the following report
is a tolerably accurate abridgment of his speech.

'Gentlemen, I must begin by expressing to you my deep gratitude for the attention which you
have paid to this unhappy business. I am grieved at having occasioned the waste of so much
public time. I am still more grieved at having been the occasion of division among my colleagues.'

[Note by Montalember.--'J'aurais voulu faire plus qu'exprimer le regret: j'aurais voulu me
prêter à tous les arrangements qui m'ont été suggérés par des voix amies pour mettre un terme
à cette discussion. Je n'aurais reculé devant aucun sacrifice qui eût été compatible avec l'honneur.
Mais vous comprenez tous que sous le coup d'une poursuite, d'un danger, je ne puis rien désavouer,
rien rétracter, rien retirer de ce que j'ai écrit, de ce que j'ai pensé. Si j'agissais autrement
il vous resterait un collègue absous, mais déshonoré et dont vous ne sauriez que faire.']

