    "Bp. Fell tells us, that all these Tracts were written by the
    excellent Author (whom he makes to be one and the same person)
    at severall times, as y'e exigence of the Church, and the
    benefit of soules directed y'r composures; and that he (the
    Author) did likewise publish them apart, in the same order as
    they were made. The last, it seems (w'ch is The Lively
    Oracles), came out in 1678, the very year Dr. Woodhead died.
    Had the Author liv'd longer, we should have had his Tract Of
    the Government of the Thoughts, a work he had undertaken; and
    certainly (as Bp. Fell hath told us), had this work been
    finished, 'twould have equall'd, if not excelled, whatever that
    inimitable hand had formerly wrote. Withall it may be observ'd,
    that the Author of these Tracts speaks of the great Pestilence,
    and of the great Fire of London, both w'ch happen'd after the
    Restoration, whereas Bp. Chappell died in 1649. And further, in
    sect. vii. of the Lively Oracles, n. 2., are these words, w'ch
    I think cannot agree to Bp. Chappell [and less to Mr. Woodhead].
    I would not be hasty in charging Idolatry upon the Church of
    Rome, or all in her Communion; but that their Image-Worship is a
    most futall snare, in w'ch vast numbers of unhappy Souls are
    taken, no Man can doubt, who hath with any Regard travailed in
    Popish Countries: I myself, and thousands of others, whom the
    late troubles, or other occasions, sent abroad, are, and have
    been witnesses thereof. {293} These words seem to have been
    spoke by one that had been at Rome, and was forced into those
    Countries after the troubles broke out here. But as for
    Chappell, he never was at Rome, nor in any of those Countries.

    "As for Archbp. Stern, no Man will believe him to have any just
    Title to any of these Tracts. [The last Passage concerning
    idolatry, will not agree with Mr. Woodhead, nor the rest with
    Lady Packington.]

    "In a letter from Mr. Hearne, dat. Oxon, Mar. 27, 1733, said by
    Dr. Clavering, Bp. of Petr. to be wrote by one Mr. Basket, a
    Clergyman of Worcestershire. See Dr. Hamond's Letters
    published by Mr. Peck, et ultra Quære."

On so disputed a point as the authorship of the Whole Duty of Man, your readers will probably
welcome any discussion by one so competent to form an opinion in such matters as Hearne.

The letter above given was unknown to the editor of Mr. Pickering's edition.

J.E.B. MAYOR.

Marlborough College.

[Footnote 2: The printed copy has Trinity College.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MISTAKE ABOUT GEORGE WITHER.

In Campbell's Notices of the British Poets (edit. 1848 p. 234.) is the following, passage from
the short memoir of George Wither:--

    "He was even afraid of being put to some mechanical trade, when
    he contrived to get to London, and with great simplicity had
    proposed to try his fortune at court. To his astonishment,
    however, he found that it was necessary to flatter in order to
    be a courtier. To show his independence, he therefore wrote his
    Abuses Whipt and Stript, and, instead of rising at court, was
    committed for some months to the Marshalsea."

The author adds a note to this passage, to which Mr. Peter Cunningham (the editor of the edition
to which I refer) appends the remark inclosed between brackets:--

    "He was imprisoned for his Abuses Whipt and Stript; yet this
    could not have been his first offence, as an allusion is made to
    a former accusation. [It was for The Scourge (1615) that his
    first known imprisonment took place.]"

I cannot discover upon any authority sufficient ground for Mr. Campbell's note resecting a
former accusation against Wither. He was undoubtedly imprisoned for his Abuses Whipt and Stript,
which first appeared in print in 1613, but I do not think an earlier offence can be proved
against him. It has been supposed, upon the authority of a passage in the Warning Piece to
London, that the first edition of this curious work appeared in 1611; but I am inclined to
think that the lines,--

  "In sixteen hundred ten and one,
  I notice took of public crimes,"

refers to the period at which the "Satirical Essays" were composed. Mr. Willmott, however (Lives
of the Sacred Poets, p. 72.), thinks that they point to an earlier publication. But it is not
likely that Wither would so soon again have committed himself by the publication of the Abuses
in 1613, if he had suffered for his "liberty of speech" so shortly before.

Mr. Cunningham's addition to Mr. Campbell's note is incorrect. The Scourge is part of the Abuses
Whipt and Stript printed in 1613 (a copy of which is now before me), to which it forms a postscript.
Wood, who had never seen it, speaks of it as a separate publication; but Mr. Willmott has corrected
this error, although he had only the means of referring to the edition of the Abuses printed
in 1615. Mr. Cunningham's note, that Wither was imprisoned for the Scourge in 1615, is a mistake;
made, probably, by a too hasty perusal of Mr. Willmott's charming little volume on our elder
sacred poets.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

USEFUL VERSUS USELESS LEARNING

A single and practical plan for the formation of a complete and useful library and respository
of universal literary knowledge.

The design which I propose in the following few lines, is one which I should imagine nearly
all the more learned and literary of your readers would wish to see already in existence and
when I show that it might be effected with very little trouble and expense (indeed no trouble
but such as would be a pleasure to those interested in the work), and that the greatest advantage
would follow from it,--I hope that it may meet with favourable consideration from some of the
numerous, able, and influential readers and correspondents of your journal.

I am the more induced to hope this from the fact of such a wish having been partially expressed
by some of your contributors, and the excellent leading articles of Nos. 1 and 2.

What I propose is simply this: the SYSTEMATIC ARRANGEMENT of all the existing literary knowledge
in the world that is considered of value by those best qualified to judge, disposed in such
a manner as to answer these two purposes: 1st, to give a general connected and classified view
of the literary treasures of the whole world, beginning from the most ancient in each language
and department (including only what is valuable in each); and, 2dly, to afford the greatest
possible facility (by means of arrangement, references and indexes) to every inquirer for finding
at once the information he is in search of, if it is to be found anywhere by looking for it.

There are two ways in which this work might be accomplished, both of which were desirable,
though even one only would be much better than none.

The first and most complete is, to make a real COLLECTION of all those works, arranged in the
{294} most perfect systematic order; and, while doing so, to make at the same time a corresponding
classified Catalogue.

The chief (and almost the only) difficulty in the way of this would be, to find a room (or
suite of rooms) to contain such a library and repository; but such would probably be found
if sought.

The other way in which this object might be attained is by the formation of a simple CATALOGUE
in the same order, such as does already exist and lies open for public use (though only in
manuscript, and not so accurately classified as might be) in the noble library of the Dublin
University.

This plan would be far easier than (besides forming the best possible basis for) that so urgently
advocated by MR. BOLTON CORNEY (Vol. i. pp. 9, 42, 43.).

Of course so extensive a design would require to be distributed among many hundred persons;
but so does any great work: while, by each individual undertaking that department in which
he is most interested and most experienced, the whole might be accomplished easily and pleasantly.

The great fault of antiquarians is, that they are constantly beginning at the wrong end: they
fix on some one piece of information that they want to get, and devote a world of labour to
hunting about in all directions for anything bearing on the subject; whereas the rational way
obviously is, to have the whole existing mass of (valuable) knowledge classified, and then
the inquirer would know where to look for his purpose.

Of course there will always remain much knowledge of a miscellaneous and irregular nature which
is picked up by accident, and does not come within the scope of the present design; but this
is generally of a trifling and fugitive kind, and does not at all controvert the principle
above laid down.

In conclusion, I have worked out a tolerably complete series of arrangements for the above
design, showing its practicability as well as usefulness, which will be much at the service
of any one who can use them for the furtherance of that object.

W. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Numerals.--For the old Indian forms, see Prinsep's Journal Asiatic Soc. Bengal, 1838, p. 348.
The prospectus of Brugsh, Numerorum apud Egyptios Demoticorum Doctrina, Berlin, promises to
give from papyri and inscriptions not only the figures, but the forms of operation. Probably
the system assumed its present form by the meeting of the Indian and Egyptian traders at some
emporium near the mouth of the Indus. Peacock seems to give undue weight to the fact, that
the Tibetans have a copious nomenclature for high numbers: their arithmetic, doubtless, came
with their alphabet, and the Buddhist legends from India.

F.Q.

Junnius and Sir Philip Francis.--A few years ago, an aged intelligent person named Garner was
living at Belgrave, near Leicester. I have heard him say that, when he was a farm bailiff to
Lord Thanet, at Sevenoaks, in Kent, Sir Philip Francis was a frequent visitor there, and had
a private room set apart for literary occupation. On one occasion, when he (Mr. Garner) was
riding over the farm with Sir Philip Francis, the former alluded to one of the replies to Junius,
by a clergyman who had been the subject of the "Great Unknown's" anonymous attacks, adding,
"They say, Sir Philip, you are Junius." Sir Philip did not deny that he was the man, but simply
smiled at the remark. This, and other circumstances coupled with the fact of Sir Philip's frequent
visits to the house of so noted a politician as Lord Thanet, rendered Mr. Garner a firm believer
in the identity of Sir Philip and Junius to the end of his days.

JAYTEE.

Jews under the Commonwealth (Vol. i., pp. 401. 474.; vol ii., p. 25.).--There is a confirmation
of the story of the Jews being in treaty for St. Paul's and the Oxford Library in a passage
in Carte's Letters, i. 276, April 2, 1649:--

    "They are about demolishing and selling cathedral churches. I
    hear Norwich is designed already, and that the Jews proffer
    600,000l. for Paul's and Oxford Library, and may have them for
    200,000l. more."

CH.

"Is anything but," &c.--As your work seems adapted, amongst other subjects, to check the introduction
into our language of undesirable words, phrases, and forms of speech, I would call the attention
of your readers to the modern phrases, "is anything but," and the like, which have lately crept
into use, and will be found, in many (otherwise) well-written books.

I read the phrase "is anything but," for the first time, in Napier's Peninsular War; where
it struck me as being so much beneath the dignity of historical composition, and at the same
time asserting an impossibility, that I meditated calling the author's attention to it. The
not unfrequent use of the same phrase by other writers, since that time, has by no means reconciled
me to its use.

In the Edinburgh Review for January last (1850) I find the following sentence:--"But as pains
have been taken to fix the blame upon any one except the parties culpable;" and in the July
number of the same Review (p. 90.) occurs the sentence, "any impulse rather than that of patriotism,"
&c.

Now, a "thing," or "person," or "impulse,"--though it may not be the "thing," or "person,"
or "impulse" charged as the agent,--must yet be some certain and specific thing, or party,
or impulse, {295} if existing as an agent at all in the matter; and cannot be "any thing,"
or "any party," or "any impulse," in the indefinite sense intended in these phrases. Moreover,
there seems no difficulty in expressing, in a simple and direct manner, that the agent was
a very different, or opposite, or dissimilar "thing," or "person," or "impulse" from that supposed.

I wish some persons of competent authority in the science of our language (and many such there
are who write in your pages) would take up this subject, with a view to preserve the purity
of it; and would also, for the future, exercise a watchful vigilance over the use, for the
first time, of any incorrect, or low words or phrases, in composition; and so endeavour to
confine them to the vulgar, or to those who ape the vulgar in their style.

P.H.F.

Fastitocalon.--Fastitocalon. Cod. Exon. fol. 96. b. p. 360. 18. read [Greek: Aspido ... chelonae].
Tychsen, Physiologus Syrus, cap. xxx.: did the digamma get to Crediton by way of Cricklade?

F.Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES

BISHOP COSIN'S CONFERENCE.

Basire in his Dead Man's Real Speech (pp. 59, 60.), amongst other "notable instances" of Bishop
Cosin's zeal and constancy in defence of the Church of England, mentions

    "A solemn conference both by word and writing betwixt him and
    the Prior of the English Benedictines at Paris, supposed to be
    Robinson. The argument was concerning the validity of the
    ordination of our priests, &c., in the Church of England. The
    issue was, our Doctor had the better so far, that he could never
    get from the Prior any reply to his last answer. This conference
    was undertaken to fix a person of honour then wavering about
    that point; the sum of which conference (as I am informed), was
    written by Dr. Cosin to Dr. Morley, the now Right Reverend Lord
    Bishop of Winchester, in two letters bearing date June 11, July
    11, 1645."

The substance of this conference has been preserved among the Smith Manuscripts in the Bodleian
Library; but it is not in the form of letters to Dr. Morley. Vol. xl. of this valuable collection
of manuscripts contains (as described in Smith's table of contents):--

    1. "Papers of Bp. Cosins in defence of the Ordination of the
    Church of England against father Prior.

    "The first of these is Bp. Cosin's Review of the Father's
    Letter, &c. [the title-page is placed at p. 77.]

    "Then follows a letter (which is indeed the Bishop's first
    paper, and should be put first) from Bishop Cosin to the Father.

    "After that the Father's Answer to Bishop Cosin's Review at p.
    81.

    "Then come two other papers about the validity of our
    Ordination, with a preface concerning the occasion, p. 89."

    2. "Then, p. 101., A Letter from a Rom. Cath. to a Lady about
    communicating in one kind,--with Bishop Cosin's Answer."

    3. "Lastly, in p. 123., is A Letter of Bp. Cosin's to Dr.
    Collins concerning the Sabbath."

The order in which the papers under the first head, about our English ordination, should fall,
appears to be as follows:--

1. There is a note attached to p. 65., evidently written by Dr. Tho. Smith himself in the following
words:

    "Transcript of several papers of Bishop Cosin's sent to me by
    Dr. J. Smith, Prebendary of Durham.--T.S."

2. At p. 77. the title-page is given thus:

    "A Review of a Letter sent from F.P.R. to a Lady (whom he would
    have persuaded to the Rom. party) in Opposition to a former
    paper given him for the defence of the Church of England in the
    Ordination of Priests."

To this are appended the respective forms of ordering priests used in the Church of England
and in the Roman Church.

3. Then, at p. 89., we have the "occasion of this ... Discourse concerning the Ordination of
Priests," &c. This is a kind of preface, which contains the first paper that was given to the
Prior, dated June 14, 1645; also another paper, bearing date July 11, 1645, but ending abruptly
in the middle of a sentence, and having written below it (probably in Dr. J. Smith's hand)
the following note:

    "The rest of this is not yet found, and that which is written
    thus far is not in the Bishop's own hand, but the copy is very
    fair."

However, this second paper (ending thus abruptly) appears to be no more than the first draft
of a long letter from Cosin to the Prior, which commences at p. 65. of this MS., and which
is dated "from the Court of S. Germains, July 11, 1645;" for not only does this letter bear
the same date as the before-mentioned fragment, but it begins by complaining of the tone of
expression in a letter evidently received from the Prior after the draft had been prepared,
but before it was sent off; and it concludes with the following note appended as a postscript:

    "Sir,

    "The enclosed (most of it) was prepared for you a fortnight
    since; but now (upon the occasion given by your letter) you have
    it with some advantage from

    "Your servt., J.C.

    "I desire the fav"

    "S. Germ. July 12."

4. The most important part of this MS., however, is contained in the long letter or treatise
{296} placed first in the volume, and bearing for its title, "A View of F.P.'s Answer to the
First Paper."

This is dated from S. Germains, July 25, 1645 and would appear to be Cosin's last letter. But,
if it be really so, Basire must, I think, be in error, when he says, "Our Doctor ... could
never get from the Prior any reply to his last answer." For at p. 81. of the MS. there is a
reply to the above "Review of a Letter sent by F.R. to a Lady," &c. which, though copied without
either date or signature, was evidently written by the Prior, whilst it professes to be a reply
to a treatise closely answering to Cosin's letter of July 25, but which letter the writer did
not receive (as he states) before the 26th of September.

I wish yet further to take notice, that Dr. Tho. Smith, in His Vitæ (Lond. 1707, præf. pp.
vii, viii.), refers to these manuscripts in the following satisfactory manner:--

    "Cum, post mortem D. Cosini, de pretio et valore schedarum, quas
    reliquit, hæredibus non satis constaret, ... auspieatò tandem
    devenit, ut favore, beneficio, et perquam insigni humanitate
    reverendi et doctissimi viri, D. Joannis Smith, Sacræ Theologiæ
    Professoris Ecclesiæ Dunelmensis Præbendarii, quorum frequens
    hac de re commercium literarum, occasione data, (opportunè
    intercedente prænobili et reverendo, D. Georgio Whelero, equite
    aurato, et Ecclesiæ Anglicanæ Presbytero, ejusdem quoque
    Ecclesiæ Cathedralis Prebendario), habui, duos libellos (tanquam
    prætiosas tabulas ab isthoc infami naufragio servatas) a D.
    Cosino, dum in Galliâ exularet, Anglieè conscriptos jam
    possidieam: quarum unus Vindicias Ordinatianum Ecclesieæ
    Anglicanæ contra exceptiones et cavillationes cujusdem
    Pontificii sacerdotis e gente nostra, alter Responsionem ad
    Epistolam nobili fæminæ Anglæ ab alio saccrdote pro defensione
    communionis sub unicâ specie administrandæ inscriptam,
    complectitur," &c.

I should still be glad to add to this long note the followng Queries:--

1. Can any of your readers kindly inform me whether Cosin's two letters to Dr. Geo. Morley
are still in existence, either in MS. or in print?

2. Whether there be any fuller or more authentic account of the controversy than that in these
MS. preserved by the care of Dr. Smith?

3. Whether Cosin wrote any letter to the Prior later than that of July 25?

4. Who was the lady the Prior wished to seduce to the Roman party?

5. Is there any other account of the controversy?

J. SANSOM.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGELMAN'S BIBILIOTHECA SCRIPTORUM CLASSICORUM.

A little while ago, I ordered Engelman's Bibliotheca Scriptoram Classicorum, purporting to
contain all such works published from 1700 to 1846. It was furnished to my bookseller by a
foreign bookseller in London with an English title, having his own name on it as publisher,
and an invitation to purchase the books described in it from him. As the paper and type were
German, I objected and received in consequence a new English title, with the same name upon
it, and a shorter invitation to purchase from him. I was captious enough to object even to
this; and I then received a Leipzig title in German. But there still remains a difficulty:
for this German title has also the name of a Parisian bookseller upon it, a la maison duquel
on peut s'adresser, &c. Now, as Engelman is a bookseller, and would probably not object to
an order out of his own catalogue, of which he is both author and publisher, the preceding,
circumstances naturally raise the following Queries:

1. What is the real title-page of Engelman's Catalogue 2. Is the Parisian house accredited
by Engelman; or has the former served the latter as the London house has Served both? 3. Is
it not desirable that literary men should set their faces very decidedly against all and every
the slightest alteration in the genuine description of a book? 4. Would it not be desirable
that every such alteration should forthwith be communicate to your paper?

The English title-page omits the important fact, that the Catalogue begins at 1700, and describes
it as containing all editions, &c., up to 1846.

A. DE MORGAN.

September 24. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Portrait of Sir P. Sidney, by Paul Veronese.--In the letters of Sir P. Sidney which I found
at Hamburg, and which were published by Pickering, 1845, it is stated that a portrait of Sidney
was painted by Paul Veronese, at Venice, for Herbert Languet. It would be very interesting
to discover the existence of this picture.

Languet had it with him at Prague, framed, as he asserts, and hung up in his room, in the year
1575. He remarks upon it, in one place, that it represented Sidney as too young (he was nineteen
when it was taken); in another place he says that it has given him too sad an expression. I
should add, that on Languet's death, his property passed into the hands of his friend Du Plessis.

I am led to write to you on this subject, by having observed, a few days since, in the collection
at Blenheim, two portraits by Paul Veronese, of persons unknown. There may be many such, and
that of Sir Philip Sidney may yet be identified.

STEUART A. PEARS.

Harrow, Sept. 6.

Confession.--You would much oblige if you could discover the name of a Catholic priest, in
{297} German history, who submitted to die rather than reveal a secret committed to him in
confession?

U.J.B.

Scotch Prisoners at Worcester.--In Mr. Walcott's History of St. Margaret's Church, Westminster,
I find the following extract from church wardens' accounts:--

