ENGLISH OPINION ON THE AMERICAN WAR.

The great events which took place in the United States between the first election of President
Lincoln and the accession of President Johnson excited an amount of party-spirit in England
greater than I recollect in connection with any other non-English occurrences, and fairly proportionate
even to that supreme form of party-spirit which the same events produced in the States themselves,--the
party-spirit which, in hostile and closing ranks, clenches teeth and sets life at nought, seeing
no alternative, no possibility, save this one only, to carry its point or die. "I am a Northerner,"
and "I am a Southerner," were, during the war, phrases as common on Englishmen's lips as "I
am a Liberal" or "a Conservative," "I am a Protectionist" (this, indeed, has about become obsolete)
or "a Free-Trader." It would be very far from correct to say that this party-spirit has yet
subsided in England; highly important questions, personal and political, remain in ample abundance
to keep it lively; but we have at any rate reached a point at which one may try to discuss
the past phases of our partisanship, not in the temper of a partisan. My endeavor in the following
pages will be to do this,--very imperfectly, beyond a doubt, but, as far as it goes, candidly
and without disguise.

The writer must in the first instance, in order that his remarks may be accurately judged by
the reader, essay to define his own position and the sphere within which his observations extend.
He is a born and bred Englishman and Londoner, of parentage partly Italian. His professional
employment is that of a Government clerk, of fair average standing; he is also occupied a good
deal in writing for publication, chiefly upon subjects of fine art. His circle of personal
intimacy and acquaintanceship is mainly made up of artists and literary men, including especially
several of those who have made themselves most prominent in these classes within the last twenty
years; and this acquaintanceship shades naturally off, in a minor and moderate degree, into
those circles of good social standing which are rather liberally receptive than productive
of literature and art. The writer cannot profess or affect to be "behind the scenes" of political
parties, or to have dived into the minds of the peerage over their wine or of artisans in their
workshops. He has conversed freely with many persons of culture and many fair representatives
of the average British middle classes, and has read, in a less or more miscellaneous way, a
good many opinions and statements, in books and newspapers, on both sides of the question.
His own opinions are not strictly to the point, but may as well be stated at once, so that
the reader, if he finds or fancies a bias in the views to be expressed in the sequel, may know
to what to attribute it.

From the first symptoms of Secession to the surrender of the last Southern army, the writer
has felt a vivid interest in the great struggle and its issues, and a thorough sympathy with
the cause of the North and alienation from that of the South,--points on which he might, perhaps,
be more inclined to dilate, were it not, that, at this late hour of the day, Northern adherency
might read like the mere worship of success. So it is now, but so it was not, in many circles
of English society at least, during the continuance of the war. Almost up to the very fall
of Richmond, to express a decisive adherence to the Northern cause was often to be singular
and solitary in a roomful of company; the timorous adherent would be minded to keep silence,
and the outspoken one would be prepared for a stare and an embarrassed pause to ensue upon
his avowal. At the same time that all his sympathies and hopes were for the North, the writer
entertained opinions which forbade him to condemn the South, so far as the mere fact of secession
and armed insurrection was concerned. To take a wide view of the question, he apprehends, that,
in every fully constituted community, there are two coextensive and countervailing rights:
the right of the existent de facto government to maintain itself by all legal and honorable
means, and, if requisite, by the arbitrament of the sword; and the right of any section of
the community to reorganize itself as it may see fit for its own interests, and to establish
its independence by force of arms, should nothing else serve,--the "sacred right of insurrection."
The insurgent party is not to be decried for the mere act of resistance, nor the loyal and
governmental party for the mere act of self-conservation and repression of its opponents; each
stands the hazard of the die, and commits its cause to a supreme trial of strength. If the
American colonies of Great Britain were not to be blamed for the mere act of resisting the
constituted authorities, if the English Parliamentarians, the French Revolution, the Polish
Insurrection, the Italian Wars of Independence, were justifiable,--and the writer thoroughly
believes that they all were so,--he fails to see that the Southern States of the American Union
were necessarily in the wrong simply because they revolted from the Federal authority. And
in each case he recognizes the coextensive right, so far as that alone is concerned, of the
existing government to assert itself, and stem the tide of revolt. It is the old question of
the Rights of Man and the Mights of Man, concerning which Carlyle has had so much to say. A
trial between the Mights often throws considerable light upon the question of the Rights; and,
until at any rate the true Might has been ascertained by this crucial test, one may without
half-heartedness admit that both of the opposing Rights, the conservative and the disruptive,
are genuine rights, mutually antagonistic and internecine, but neither disproved by the other.

But this is only the most rudimentary view of the matter. An abstract and indefeasible right
of insurrection may exist, maintainable in any and every case; and yet a particular instance
of insurrection maybe foolish, wicked, and altogether worthy of ruin and extinction. And the
writer believes that he is perfectly consistent with himself in thinking both that the abstract
right of insurrection existed in the case of the Southern States of the Union and the abstract
right of repression in the Federal Government, and also that this particular insurrection deserved
condemnation and failure, and this particular repression deserved credit and triumph,--a triumph
which, when the "Mights of Men" had been sufficiently tested, it very arduously and very conclusively
managed to achieve.

As to the question of a legal and constitutional right of secession, the writer has not the
impudence to express--and scarcely to entertain--an opinion. That is a question for American
lawyers and publicists to discuss and determine; the obfuscated British mind being entitled
to affirm only this: that there seems to have been something to say on the Southern side of
the question, as well as a good deal on the Northern. The writer apprehends that the abstract
right of insurrection on the one hand, and of self-conservation on the other, quite overbears,
in so vast and momentous a debate, the narrow, technical, legal question: that which it does
not overbear is the rightness or wrongness of the immediate motive, conduct, and aim of any
particular insurrection and repression, considered individually. The abstract rights remain
the same in all cases; the application of those rights differs immeasurably, according to the
merits of each several case.

What were the merits of this particular case? The constitutional majority of the whole nation
had elected a President whose election was held by both parties to be tantamount to the policy
of non-extension of slavery into the Territories of the Republic, and into all States to be
thereafter constructed; and before the President elect had entered upon his functions, before
a single subsisting legal right (which might or might not be a moral wrong) had been interfered
with, while there was yet no ground for affirming that any such right would ever be interfered
with, the Southern States declared that their minority was of more weight than the nation's
majority, that they would break up the nation rather than abide by its award, and would themselves
constitute a new nation, founded on the maintenance of slavery within their own borders, and
its extension and propagation as opportunity might offer. This, and not the mere fact that
they were secessionists, insurgents, rebels, or whatever harder term may be forthcoming, is
the reason why the writer disliked the revolt of the Southern States, and wished it to come
to nought; and corresponding facts regarding the Northern States,--that they were simply upholding
a constitutional act performed by the nation at large, were contending for the majestic present
and the magnificent future of a great and free republic, were arrayed against the extension
of slavery, and might, by the force of circumstances and the growth of ideas, find themselves
called up even to exterminate the existing slave-system,--these were the facts which commanded
his homage to the Northern cause,--not merely that they were the assertors of authority against
innovation. The case, as the writer understands it, amounts simply to this: that the South
seceded before it had been in any degree damnified, and to maintain a system the scotching
or killing of which, though not in fact then contemplated by the North to any extent contrary
to existing laws, would have been a benefit to mankind and an atonement to human conscience.
It may perhaps seem superfluous or impertinent to have given so many words to the statement
of opinions so simple and obvious. But the English Liberal adherents of the Northern States
were continually twitted with their assumed inconsistency in censuring the insurrection of
the South, while they approved of (for instance) the insurrection of Lombardy against the Austrians;
and it seemed impossible to get the objectors to understand, or at any rate to acknowledge,
that motives, aims, and consequences have some bearing upon revolts, as upon other transactions,
and that one may consistently abhor a revolt the motive and aim of which he believes to be
bad, while he sympathizes with another the motive and aim of which he believes to be good.
Of course, too, there were other objectors who denied, and will to this day not blush to deny,
that the question of Slavery was the real substantial incentive to secession, and who paraded
the minor questions of tariffs, the conflicting interests of the productive and the manufacturing
States, and the like. These arguments the writer leaves unfingered; it is no business of his
to fray their delicate texture. All he has to say of them here is, that, as he does not value
them at a pin's fee as representing the main point at issue, they in no way affected the feelings
which he entertained concerning the war. Again, there were remonstrants of a still more impracticable
frame of mind, who could see the right, absolute or potential, of any despotic or constitutional
monarchy, or any conquering power, to suppress secession and revolt, but could not conceive
that any similar right pertained to the central government of a federative republic. To hear
them, the will of a national majority was of no account in a national issue, provided the majority
of any particular State of the federation took the contrary side. The national majority had
no rights such as the strong arm of the law, or the armed force, ought to impose upon gainsayers;
it was only the national minority which had such rights. The latter might break up the nation;
the former must not enforce any veto upon the disruption. Why elect a President as your governmental
chief, if you mean that government should be a reality? Why not be respectable, like us Europeans,
and have a King at once? Such, briefly interpreted, appears to have been the quintessence of
the wisdom of these political sages.

The writer has now done with the exposition of his own views,--of no consequence assuredly
to his American readers, save for the clearer understanding of what he has to say concerning
the views entertained by his British countryman at large. He has also done with the few specimens
which it fell in his way to cite of objections urged against his colleagues in opinion, and
which he was obtuse enough to imagine to be no objections at all. He proceeds to his main subject,--the
varieties of English opinion on the American War.

These varieties may perhaps, with some approach to completeness, be defined under the following
seven heads.

1st. The party which believed in the sincerity, the right, and the probable eventual success
of the North.

2d. That which believed in the right of the North, but which doubted or disbelieved its sincerity,
especially on the question of Slavery, or its eventual success, or both.

3d. That which cared only for the anti-slavery aspect of the contest.

4th. That which believed in the right and the probable eventual success of the South.

5th. That which believed in the right of the South, but which doubted or disbelieved its eventual
success.

6th. That which, contrariwise, believed in the eventual success of the South, but doubted or
disbelieved its right.

7th. That which covertly or avowedly justified slavery.

To each of these parties a few words of comment must be given. By sincerity I mean such points
as these: that the Federal Government was honestly desirous of fulfilling its obligations towards
the South; that the North, having to maintain the integrity of the country by force of arms,
was ready to make all needful sacrifices for that object, and to lavish its blood and treasure;
above all, that the professions of dislike to slavery, the offer of military emancipation to
negroes, and, finally, the efforts to amend the Constitution so as to abolish slavery, root
and branch, were sincere. Many, of course, believed in the right of the North, and in one of
other of these items of sincerity; few, I think, in the right, in the sincerity throughout,
and in the success as well. The delusion, that the North, after using up its Irish and German
population and its incoming immigrants, would quail before the necessity of hazarding also
a large proportion of its own settled Anglo-Saxon population, was extremely prevalent. Equally
prevalent the notion that the North was fighting merely for a constitutional idea, or for national
integrity, predominance, or (as Lord Russell phrased it) "for empire," without any real regard
for the interests of the negro. And when all these demands upon one's faith had to be supplemented
by a belief in the probable success of the North, few persons seemingly ventured to commit
themselves to the whole of the proposition. Within my own personal circle of observation, I
could name but one, or, at the utmost, two, besides myself, who, in the main, with some variations
according to the changing current of events, clung to the cause of the North in its entirety.
The first of these two persons is a painter of great distinction and a man, in other respects,
of very thinking and serious mind, well known by name, and partially by his works, to such
Americans as take an interest in fine art. The second of the two is one of our very greatest
living poets.--As to the question of success, the following may perhaps be a tolerably fair
account of the varying impressions of many, who, along with myself, hoped for the triumph of
the North, and were disposed, though not with any overwhelming confidence, to believe in it.
Up to the first Battle of Bull Run, opinion was suspended or fluctuating; but in the main one's
sympathies conspired with one's information as to the comparative resources of the opponents
to produce a considerable degree of confidence. That battle and some other Southern successes
acted as a severe check; and discouragement prevailed up to the time when the capture of New
Orleans, Grant's advance on the line of the Mississippi, and McClellan's "On to Richmond" march
righted the balance. Great uncertainty, however, was still felt; and I should say that afterwards,
between the repulse of McClellan and Pope and the Battle of Gettysburg, most of the adherents
of the North were consciously "hoping against hope," and, especially at the time of the defeat
at Chancellorsville and the Northern invasion by Lee in 1863, were almost ready to confess
the case desperate.[A] Gettysburg, Vicksburg, and Port Hudson altered the face of affairs,
and revived a confidence which gradually strengthened almost into a conviction, such as not
all the vast difficulties which afterwards beset Grant in his advance towards Richmond, nor
all the nonsense of the Times and other Southern journals about "Johnston continuing to draw
Sherman from his base," or Hood cutting him off from his communications, and compelling him
to retreat by that most singular of retreating processes, the triumphal march through Georgia
from end to end, could ever avail substantially to becloud. Soon after the victory at Gettysburg,
those who were not blinded by their wishes or preconceptions saw ground for thinking that the
South had made its greatest efforts, and failed,--the North sustained its worst rebuffs, and
surmounted them.

