Joe looked quickly at Ariel.  She did not meet his glance, but, turning instead to Ladew, the
clergyman, began, with a barely perceptible blush, to talk of something he had said in a sermon
two weeks ago.  The two fell into a thoughtful and amiable discussion, during which there stole
into Joe's heart a strange and unreasonable pain.  The young minister had lived in Canaan only
a few months, and Joe had never seen him until that morning; but he liked the short, honest
talk he had made; liked his cadenceless voice and keen, dark face; and, recalling what he had
heard Martin Pike vociferating in his brougham one Sunday, perceived that Ladew was the fellow
who had "got to go" because his sermons did not please the Judge.  Yet Ariel remembered for
more than a fortnight a passage from one of these sermons. And as Joe looked at the manly and
intelligent face opposite him, it did not seem strange that she should.

He resolutely turned his eyes to the open window and saw that they had entered the cemetery,
were near the green knoll where Eskew was to lie beside a brother who had died long ago.  He
let the minister help Ariel out, going quickly forward himself with Buckalew; and then--after
the little while that the restoration of dust to dust mercifully needs--he returned to the
carriage only to get his hat.

Ariel and Ladew and the Squire were already seated and waiting. "Aren't you going to ride home
with us?" she asked, surprised.

"No," he explained, not looking at her.  "I have to talk with Norbert Flitcroft.  I'm going
back with him.  Good-bye."

His excuse was the mere truth, his conversation with Norbert, in the carriage which they managed
to secure to themselves, continuing earnestly until Joe spoke to the driver and alighted at
a corner, near Mr. Farbach's Italian possessions.  "Don't forget," he said, as he closed the
carriage door, "I've got to have both ends of the string in my hands."

"Forget!" Norbert looked at the cupola of the Pike Mansion, rising above the maples down the
street.  "It isn't likely I'll forget!"

When Joe entered the "Louis Quinze room" which some decorator, drunk with power, had mingled
into the brewer's villa, he found the owner and Mr. Sheehan, with five other men, engaged in
a meritorious attempt to tone down the apartment with smoke.  Two of the five others were prosperous
owners of saloons; two were known to the public (whose notion of what it meant when it used
the term was something of the vaguest) as politicians; the fifth was Mr. Farbach's closest
friend, one who (Joe had heard) was to be the next chairman of the city committee of the party.
They were seated about a table, enveloped in blue clouds, and hushed to a grave and pertinent
silence which clarified immediately the circumstance that whatever debate had preceded his
arrival, it was now settled.

Their greeting of him, however, though exceedingly quiet, indicated a certain expectancy, as
he accepted the chair which had been left for him at the head of the table.  He looked thinner
and paler than usual, which is saying a great deal; but presently, finding that the fateful
hush which his entrance had broken was immediately resumed, a twinkle came into his eye, one
of his eyebrows went up and a corner of his mouth went down.

"Well, gentlemen?" he said.

The smokers continued to smoke and to do nothing else; the exception being Mr. Sheehan, who,
though he spoke not, exhibited tokens of agitation and excitement which he curbed with difficulty;
shifting about in his chair, gnawing his cigar, crossing and uncrossing his knees, rubbing
and slapping his hands together, clearing his throat with violence, his eyes fixed all the
while, as were those of his companions, upon Mr. Farbach; so that Joe was given to perceive
that it had been agreed that the brewer should be the spokesman. Mr. Farbach was deliberate,
that was all, which added to the effect of what he finally did say.

"Choe," he remarked, placidly, "you are der next Mayor off Canaan."

"Why do you say that?" asked the young man, sharply.

"Bickoss us here," he answered, interlocking the tips of his fingers over his waistcoat, that
being as near folding his hands as lay within his power,--"bickoss us here shall try to fix
it so, und so hef ditcided."

Joe took a deep breath.  "Why do you want me?"

"Dot," replied the brewer, "iss someding I shall tell you."  He paused to contemplate his cigar.
"We want you bickoss you are der best man fer dot positsion."

"Louie, you mustn't make a mistake at the beginning," Joe said, hurriedly.  "I may not be the
kind of man you're looking for.  If I went in--" He hesitated, stammering.  "It seems an ungrateful
thing to say, but--but there wouldn't be any slackness--I couldn't be bound to anybody--"

"Holt up your hosses!" Mr. Farbach, once in his life, was so ready to reply that he was able
to interrupt.  "Who hef you heert speak off bounding? Hef I speakt off favors?  Dit I say der
shoult be slackness in der city gofer'ment?  Litsen to me, Choe."  He renewed his contemplation
of his cigar, then proceeded:  "I hef been t'inkin' it ofer, now a couple years.  I hef mate
up my mind.  If some peobles are gombelt to keep der laws and oders are not, dot's a great
atwantitch to der oders. Dot iss what iss ruining der gountry und der peobles iss commencement
to take notice.  Efer'veres in oder towns der iss housecleaning; dey are reforming und indieding,
und pooty soon dot mofement comes here--shoo-er!  If we intent to holt der parsly in power,
we shoult be a leetle ahead off dot mofement so, when it shoult be here, we hef a goot 'minadstration
to fall beck on.  Now, dere iss anoder brewery opened und trying to gombete mit me here in
Canaan.  If dot brewery owns der Mayor, all der tsaloons buying my bier must shut up at 'leven
o'glock und Sundays, but der oders keep open.  If I own der Mayor, I make der same against
dot oder brewery.  Now I am pooty sick off dot ways off bitsness und fighting all times. Also,"
Mr. Farbach added, with magnificent calmness, "my trade iss larchly owitside off Canaan, und
it iss bedder dot here der laws shoult be enforced der same fer all.  Litsen, Choe; all us
here beliefs der same way.  You are square.  Der whole tsaloon element knows dot, und knows
dot all voult be treated der same.  Mit you it voult be fairness fer each one.  Foolish peobles
hef sait you are a law-tricker, but we know dot you hef only mate der laws brotect as well
as bunish.  Und at such times as dey het been broken, you hef made dem as mertsiful as you
coult.  You are no tricker. We are willing to help you make it a glean town. Odervise der fightin'
voult go on until der mofement strikes here und all der granks vake up und we git a fool reformer
fer Mayor und der town goes to der dogs.  If I try to put in a man dot I own, der oder brewery
iss goin' to fight like hell, but if I work fer you it will not fight so hart."

"But the other people," Joe objected, "those outside of what is called the saloon element--do
you understand how many of them will be against me?"

"It iss der tsaloon element," Mr. Farbach returned, peacefully, "dot does der fightin'."

"And you have considered my standing with that part of Canaan which considers itself the most
respectable section?"  He rose to his feet, standing straight and quiet, facing the table,
upon which, it chanced, there lay a copy of the Tocsin.

"Und yet," observed Mr. Farbach, with mildness, "we got some pooty risbecdable men right here."

"Except me," broke in Mr. Sheehan, grimly, "you have."

"Have you thought of this?" Joe leaned forward and touched the paper upon the table.

"We hef," replied Mr. Farbach.  "All of us. You shall beat it."

