It is not too much to assert, that the legislature of New Hampshire would not have been competent
to pass the acts in question, and to make them binding on the plaintiffs without their assent,
even if there had been, in the Constitution of New Hampshire, or of the United States, no special
restriction on their power, because these acts are not the exercise of a power properly legislative.
Their effect and object are to take away, from one, rights, property, and franchises, and to
grant them to another. This is not the exercise of a legislative power. To justify the taking
away of vested rights there must be a forfeiture, to adjudge upon and declare which is the
proper province of the judiciary. Attainder and confiscation are acts of sovereign power, not
acts of legislation. The British Parliament, among other unlimited powers, claims that of altering
and vacating charters; not as an act of ordinary legislation, but of uncontrolled authority.
It is theoretically omnipotent. Yet, in modern times, it has very rarely attempted the exercise
of this power.

The legislature of New Hampshire has no more power over the rights of the plaintiffs than existed
somewhere, in some department of government, before the Revolution. The British Parliament
could not have annulled or revoked this grant as an act of ordinary legislation. If it had
done it at all, it could only have been in virtue of that sovereign power, called omnipotent,
which does not belong to any legislature in the United States. The legislature of New Hampshire
has the same power over this charter which belonged to the king who granted it, and no more.
By the law of England, the power to create corporations is a part of the royal prerogative.
By the Revolution, this power may be considered as having devolved on the legislature of the
State, and it has accordingly been exercised by the legislature. But the king cannot abolish
a corporation, or new-model it, or alter its powers, without its assent. This is the acknowledged
and well-known doctrine of the common law.

There are prohibitions in the Constitution and Bill of Rights of New Hampshire, introduced
for the purpose of limiting the legislative power and protecting the rights and property of
the citizens. One prohibition is, "that no person shall be deprived of his property, immunities,
or privileges, put out of the protection of the law, or deprived of his life, liberty, or estate,
but by judgment of his peers or the law of the land."

In the opinion, however, which was given in the court below, it is denied that the trustees
under the charter had any property, immunity, liberty, or privilege in this corporation, within
the meaning of this prohibition in the Bill of Rights. It is said that it is a public corporation
and public property; that the trustees have no greater interest in it than any other individuals;
that it is not private property, which they can sell or transmit to their heirs, and that therefore
they have no interest in it; that their office is a public trust, like that of the Governor
or a judge, and that they have no more concern in the property of the college than the Governor
in the property of the State, or than the judges in the fines which they impose on the culprits
at their bar; that it is nothing to them whether their powers shall be extended or lessened,
any more than it is to their honors whether their jurisdiction shall be enlarged or diminished.
It is necessary, therefore, to inquire into the true nature and character of the corporation
which was created by the charter of 1769.

There are divers sorts of corporations; and it may be safely admitted that the legislature
has more power over some than others. Some corporations are for government and political arrangement;
such, for example, as cities, counties, and towns in New England. These may be changed and
modified as public convenience may require, due regard being always had to the rights of property.
Of such corporations, all who live within the limits are of course obliged to be members, and
to submit to the duties which the law imposes on them as such. Other civil corporations are
for the advancement of trade and business, such as banks, insurance companies, and the like.
These are created, not by general law, but usually by grant. Their constitution is special.
It is such as the legislature sees fit to give, and the grantees to accept.

The corporation in question is not a civil, although it is a lay corporation. It is an eleemosynary
corporation. It is a private charity, originally founded and endowed by an individual, with
a charter obtained for it at his request, for the better administration of his charity. "The
eleemosynary sort of corporations are such as are constituted for the perpetual distributions
of the free alms or bounty of the founder of them, to such persons as he has directed. Of this
are all hospitals for the maintenance of the poor, sick, and impotent; and all colleges both
in our universities and out of them." Eleemosynary corporations are for the management of private
property, according to the will of the donors. They are private corporations. A college is
as much a private corporation as a hospital; especially a college founded, as this was, by
private bounty. A college is a charity. "The establishment of learning," says Lord Hardwicke,
"is a charity, and so considered in the statute of Elizabeth. To devise to a college, for their
benefit, is a laudable charity, and deserves encouragement."

The legal signification of a charity is derived chiefly from the statute 43 Eliz. ch. 4. "Those
purposes," says Sir William Grant, "are considered charitable which that statute enumerates."
Colleges are enumerated as charities in that statute. The government, in these cases, lends
its aid to perpetuate the beneficent intention of the donor, by granting a charter under which
his private charity shall continue to be dispensed after his death. This is done either by
incorporating the objects of the charity, as, for instance, the scholars in a college or the
poor in a hospital, or by incorporating those who are to be governors or trustees of the charity.
In cases of the first sort, the founder is, by the common law, visitor. In early times it became
a maxim, that he who gave the property might regulate it in future. "Cujus est dare, ejus est
disponere." This right of visitation descended from the founder to his heir as a right of property,
and precisely as his other property went to his heir; and in default of heirs it went to the
king, as all other property goes to the king for the want of heirs. The right of visitation
arises from the property. It grows out of the endowment. The founder may, if he please, part
with it at the time when he establishes the charity, and may vest it in others. Therefore,
if he chooses that governors, trustees, or overseers should be appointed in the charter, he
may cause it to be done, and his power of visitation may be transferred to them, instead of
descending to his heirs. The persons thus assigned or appointed by the founder will be visitors,
with all the powers of the founder, in exclusion of his heir. The right of visitation, then,
accrues to them, as a matter of property, by the gift, transfer, or appointment of the founder.
This is a private right, which they can assert in all legal modes, and in which they have the
same protection of the law as in all other rights. As visitors they may make rules, ordinances,
and statutes, and alter and repeal them, as far as permitted so to do by the charter. Although
the charter proceeds from the crown or the government, it is considered as the will of the
donor. It is obtained at his request. He uses it as the rule which is to prevail in the dispensation
of his bounty in all future times. The king or government which grants the charter is not thereby
the founder, but he who furnishes the funds. The gift of the revenues is the foundation.

The leading case on this subject is Phillips v. Bury. This was an ejectment brought to recover
the rectory-house, &c. of Exeter College in Oxford. The question was whether the plaintiff
or defendant was legal rector. Exeter College was founded by an individual, and incorporated
by a charter granted by Queen Elizabeth. The controversy turned upon the power of the visitor,
and, in the discussion of the cause, the nature of college charters and corporations was very
fully considered.

Lord Holt's judgment is that that college was a private corporation, and that the founder had
a right to appoint a visitor, and to give him such power as he saw fit.

The learned Bishop Stillingfleet's argument in the same cause, as a member of the House of
Lords, when it was there heard, exhibits very clearly the nature of colleges and similar corporations.
It is to the following effect. "That colleges, although founded by private persons, are yet
incorporated by the king's charter; but although the kings by their charter made the colleges
to be such in law, that is, to be legal corporations, yet they left to the particular founders
authority to appoint what statutes they thought fit for the regulation of them. And not only
the statutes, but the appointment of visitors, was left to them, and the manner of government,
and the several conditions on which any persons were to be made or continue partakers of their
bounty."

These opinions received the sanction of the House of Lords, and they seem to be settled and
undoubted law.

"There is nothing better established," says Lord Commissioner Eyre, "than that this court does
not entertain a general jurisdiction, or regulate and control charities established by charter.
There the establishment is fixed and determined; and the court has no power to vary it. If
the governors established for the regulation of it are not those who have the management of
the revenue, this court has no jurisdiction, and if it is ever so much abused, as far as it
respects the jurisdiction of this court it is without remedy; but if those established as governors
have also the management of the revenues, this court does assume a jurisdiction of necessity,
so far as they are to be considered as trustees of the revenue."

"The foundations of colleges," says Lord Mansfield, "are to be considered in two views; namely,
as they are corporations and as they are eleemosynary. As eleemosynary, they are the creatures
of the founder; he may delegate his power, either generally or specially; he may prescribe
particular modes and manners, as to the exercise of part of it."

In New England, and perhaps throughout the United States, eleemosynary corporations have been
generally established by incorporating governors, or trustees, and vesting in them the right
of visitation. The case before the court is clearly that of an eleemosynary corporation. It
is, in the strictest legal sense, a private charity. In King v. St. Catherine's Hall, that
college is called a private eleemosynary lay corporation. It was endowed by a private founder,
and incorporated by letters patent. And in the same manner was Dartmouth College founded and
incorporated. Dr. Wheelock is declared by the charter to be its founder. It was established
by him, or funds contributed and collected by himself.

As such founder, he had a right of visitation, which he assigned to the trustees, and they
received it by his consent and appointment, and held it under the charter. He appointed these
trustees visitors, and in that respect to take place of his heir; as he might have appointed
devisees, to take his estate instead of his heir. Little, probably, did he think, at that time,
that the legislature would ever take away this property and these privileges, and give them
to others. Little did he suppose that this charter secured to him and his successors no legal
rights. Little did the other donors think so. If they had, the college would have been, what
the university is now, a thing upon paper, existing only in name.

The numerous academies in New England have been established substantially in the same manner.
They hold their property by the same tenure, and no other. Nor has Harvard College any surer
title than Dartmouth College. It may to-day have more friends; but to-morrow it may have more
enemies. Its legal rights are the same. So also of Yale College; and, indeed, of all the others.
When the legislature gives to these institutions, it may and does accompany its grants with
such conditions as it pleases. The grant of lands by the legislature of New Hampshire to Dartmouth
College, in 1789, was accompanied with various conditions. When donations are made, by the
legislature or others, to a charity already existing, without any condition, or the specification
of any new use, the donation follows the nature of the charity. Hence the doctrine, that all
eleemosynary corporations are private bodies. They are founded by private persons, and on private
property. The public cannot be charitable in these institutions. It is not the money of the
public, but of private persons, which is dispensed. It may be public, that is general, in its
uses and advantages; and the State may very laudably add contributions of its own to the funds;
but it is still private in the tenure of the property, and in the right of administering the funds.

The charter declares that the powers conferred on the trustees are "privileges, advantages,
liberties, and immunities"; and that they shall be for ever holden by them and their successors.
The New Hampshire Bill of Rights declares that no one shall be deprived of his "property, privileges,
or immunities," but by judgment of his peers, or the law of the land. The argument on the other
side is, that, although these terms may mean something in the Bill of Rights, they mean nothing
in this charter. They are equivalent with franchises. Blackstone says that franchise and liberty
are used as synonymous terms.

The privilege, then, of being a member of a corporation, under a lawful grant, and of exercising
the rights and powers of such member, is such a privilege, liberty, or franchise, as has been
the object of legal protection, and the subject of a legal interest, from the time of Magna
Charta to the present moment. The plaintiffs have such an interest in this corporation, individually,
as they could assert and maintain in a court of law, not as agents of the public, but in their
own right. Each trustee has a franchise, and if he be disturbed in the enjoyment of it, he
would have redress, on appealing to the law, as promptly as for any other injury. If the other
trustees should conspire against any one of them to prevent his equal right and voice in the
appointment of a president or professor, or in the passing of any statute or ordinance of the
college, he would be entitled to his action, for depriving him of his franchise. It makes no
difference, that this property is to be holden and administered, and these franchises exercised,
for the purpose of diffusing learning. No principle and no case establishes any such distinction.
The public may be benefited by the use of this property. But this does not change the nature
of the property, or the rights of the owners. The object of the charter may be public good;
so it is in all other corporations; and this would as well justify the resumption or violation
of the grant in any other case as in this. In the case of an advowson, the use is public, and
the right cannot be turned to any private benefit or emolument. It is nevertheless a legal
private right, and the property of the owner, as emphatically as his freehold. The rights and
privileges of trustees, visitors, or governors of incorporated colleges, stand on the same
foundation. They are so considered, both by Lord Holt and Lord Hardwicke.

To contend that the rights of the plaintiffs may be taken away, because they derive from them
no pecuniary benefit or private emolument, or because they cannot be transmitted to their heirs,
or would not be assets to pay their debts, is taking an extremely narrow view of the subject.
According to this notion, the case would be different, if, in the charter, they had stipulated
for a commission on the disbursement of the funds; and they have ceased to have any interest
in the property, because they have undertaken to administer it gratuitously.

It cannot be necessary to say much in refutation of the idea, that there cannot be a legal
interest, or ownership, in any thing which does not yield a pecuniary profit; as if the law
regarded no rights but the rights of money, and of visible, tangible property. Of what nature
are all rights of suffrage? No elector has a particular personal interest; but each has a legal
right, to be exercised at his own discretion, and it cannot be taken away from him. The exercise
of this right directly and very materially affects the public; much more so than the exercise
of the privileges of a trustee of this college. Consequences of the utmost magnitude may sometimes
depend on the exercise of the right of suffrage by one or a few electors. Nobody was ever yet
heard to contend, however, that on that account the public might take away the right, or impair
it. This notion appears to be borrowed from no better source than the repudiated doctrine of
the three judges in the Aylesbury case. The doctrine having been exploded for a century, seems
now for the first time to be revived.

Individuals have a right to use their own property for purposes of benevolence, either towards
the public, or towards other individuals. They have a right to exercise this benevolence in
such lawful manner as they may choose; and when the government has induced and excited it,
by contracting to give perpetuity to the stipulated manner of exercising it, it is not law,
but violence, to rescind this contract, and seize on the property. Whether the State will grant
these franchises, and under what conditions it will grant them, it decides for itself. But
when once granted, the constitution holds them to be sacred, till forfeited for just cause.

That all property, of which the use may be beneficial to the public, belongs therefore to the
public, is quite a new doctrine. It has no precedent, and is supported by no known principle.
Dr. Wheelock might have answered his purposes, in this case, by executing a private deed of
trust. He might have conveyed his property to trustees, for precisely such uses as are described
in this charter. Indeed, it appears that he had contemplated the establishing of his school
in that manner, and had made his will, and devised the property to the same persons who were
afterwards appointed trustees in the charter. Many literary and other charitable institutions
are founded in that manner, and the trust is renewed, and conferred on other persons, from
time to time, as occasion may require. In such a case, no lawyer would or could say, that the
legislature might divest the trustees, constituted by deed or will, seize upon the property,
and give it to other persons, for other purposes. And does the granting of a charter, which
is only done to perpetuate the trust in a more convenient manner, make any difference? Does
or can this change the nature of the charity, and turn it into a public political corporation?
Happily, we are not without authority on this point. It has been considered and adjudged. Lord
Hardwicke says, in so many words, "The charter of the crown cannot make a charity more or less
public, but only more permanent than it would otherwise be."

The granting of the corporation is but making the trust perpetual, and does not alter the nature
of the charity. The very object sought in obtaining such charter, and in giving property to
such a corporation, is to make and keep it private property, and to clothe it with all the
security and inviolability of private property. The intent is, that there shall be a legal
private ownership, and that the legal owners shall maintain and protect the property, for the
benefit of those for whose use it was designed. Who ever endowed the public? Who ever appointed
a legislature to administer his charity? Or who ever heard, before, that a gift to a college,
or a hospital, or an asylum, was, in reality, nothing but a gift to the State?

The State of Vermont is a principal donor to Dartmouth College. The lands given lie in that
State. This appears in the special verdict. Is Vermont to be considered as having intended
a gift to the State of New Hampshire in this case, as, it has been said, is to be the reasonable
construction of all donations to the college? The legislature of New Hampshire affects to represent
the public, and therefore claims a right to control all property destined to public use. What
hinders Vermont from considering herself equally the representative of the public, and from
resuming her grants, at her own pleasure? Her right to do so is less doubtful than the power
of New Hampshire to pass the laws in question. I hope enough has been said to show that the
trustees possessed vested liberties, privileges, and immunities, under this charter; and that
such liberties, privileges, and immunities, being once lawfully obtained and vested, are as
inviolable as any vested rights of property whatever. Rights to do certain acts, such, for
instance, as the visitation and superintendence of a college and the appointment of its officers,
may surely be vested rights, to all legal intents, as completely as the right to possess property.
A late learned judge of this court has said, "When I say that a right is vested in a citizen,
I mean that he has the power to do certain actions, or to possess certain things, according
to the law of the land."

If such be the true nature of the plaintiffs' interests under this charter, what are the articles
in the New Hampshire Bill of Rights which these acts infringe?

They infringe the second article; which says, that the citizens of the State have a right to
hold and possess property. The plaintiffs had a legal property in this charter; and they had
acquired property under it. The acts deprive them of both. They impair and take away the charter;
and they appropriate the property to new uses, against their consent. The plaintiffs cannot
now hold the property acquired by themselves, and which this article says they have a right
to hold.

They infringe the twentieth article. By that article it is declared that, in questions of property,
there is a right to trial. The plaintiffs are divested, without trial or judgment.

They infringe the twenty-third article. It is therein declared that no retrospective laws shall
be passed. This article bears directly on the case. These acts must be deemed to be retrospective,
within the settled construction of that term. What a retrospective law is, has been decided,
on the construction of this very article, in the Circuit Court for the First Circuit, The learned
judge of that circuit says: "Every statute which takes away or impairs vested rights, acquired
under existing laws, must be deemed retrospective." That all such laws are retrospective was
decided also in the case of Dash v. Van Kleek, where a most learned judge quotes this article
from the constitution of New Hampshire, with manifest approbation, as a plain and clear expression
of those fundamental and unalterable principles of justice, which must lie at the foundation
of every free and just system of laws. Can any man deny that the plaintiffs had rights, under
the charter, which were legally vested, and that by these acts those rights are impaired?

"It is a principle in the English law," says Chief Justice Kent, in the case last cited, "as
ancient as the law itself, that a statute, even of its omnipotent Parliament, is not to have
a retrospective effect. 'Nova constitutio futuris formam imponere debet, et non praeteritis.'
The maxim in Bracton was taken from the civil law, for we find in that system the same principle,
expressed substantially in the same words, that the law- giver cannot alter his mind to the
prejudice of a vested right. 'Nemo potest mutare concilium suum in alterius injuriam.'"

These acts infringe also the thirty-seventh article of the constitution of New Hampshire; which
says, that the powers of government shall be kept separate. By these acts, the legislature
assumes to exercise a judicial power. It declares a forfeiture, and resumes franchises, once
granted, without trial or hearing.

If the constitution be not altogether waste-paper, it has restrained the power of the legislature
in these particulars. If it has any meaning, it is that the legislature shall pass no act directly
and manifestly impairing private property and private privileges. It shall not judge by act.
It shall not decide by act. It shall not deprive by act. But it shall leave all these things
to be tried and adjudged by the law of the land.

The fifteenth article has been referred to before. It declares that no one shall be "deprived
of his property, immunities, or privileges, but by the judgment of his peers or the law of
the land." Notwithstanding the light in which the learned judges in New Hampshire viewed the
rights of the plaintiffs under the charter, and which has been before adverted to, it is found
to be admitted in their opinion, that those rights are privileges within the meaning of this
fifteenth article of the Bill of Rights. Having quoted that article, they say: "That the right
to manage the affairs of this college is a privilege, within the meaning of this clause of
the Bill of Rights, is not to be doubted." In my humble opinion, this surrenders the point.
To resist the effect of this admission, however, the learned judges add: "But how a privilege
can be protected from the operation of the law of the land by a clause in the constitution,
declaring that it shall not be taken away but by the law of the land, is not very easily understood."
This answer goes on the ground, that the acts in question are laws of the land, within the
meaning of the constitution. If they be so, the argument drawn from this article is fully answered.
If they be not so, it being admitted that the plaintiffs' rights are "privileges," within the
meaning of the article, the argument is not answered, and the article is infringed by the acts.
Are, then, these acts of the legislature, which affect only particular persons and their particular
privileges, laws of the land? Lord Coke citing and commenting on the celebrated twenty-ninth
chapter of Magna Charta, says: "No man shall be disseized, &c., unless it be by the lawful
judgment, that is, verdict of equals, or by the law of the land, that is (to speak it once
for all), by the due course and process of law." Have the plaintiffs lost their franchises
by "due course and process of law"? On the contrary, are not these acts "particular acts of
the legislature, which have no relation to the community in general, and which are rather sentences
than laws"?

By the law of the land is most clearly intended the general law; a law which hears before it
condemns; which proceeds upon inquiry, and renders judgment only after trial. The meaning is,
that every citizen shall hold his life, liberty, property, and immunities under the protection
of the general rules which govern society. Every thing which may pass under the form of an
enactment is not therefore to be considered the law of the land. If this were so, acts of attainder,
bills of pains and penalties, acts of confiscation, acts reversing judgments, and acts directly
transferring one man's estate to another, legislative judgments, decrees, and forfeitures in
all possible forms, would be the law of the land.

Such a strange construction would render constitutional provisions of the highest importance
completely inoperative and void. It would tend directly to establish the union of all powers
in the legislature. There would be no general, permanent law for courts to administer or men
to live under. The administration of justice would be an empty form, an idle ceremony. Judges
would sit to execute legislative judgments and decrees; not to declare the law or to administer
the justice of the country.

That the power of electing and appointing the officers of this college is not only a right
of the trustees as a corporation, generally, and in the aggregate, but that each individual
trustee has also his own individual franchise in such right of election and appointment, is
according to the language of all the authorities. Lord Holt says: "It is agreeable to reason
and the rules of law, that a franchise should be vested in the corporation aggregate, and yet
the benefit of it to redound to the particular members, and to be enjoyed by them in their
private capacity. Where the privilege of election is used by particular persons, it is a particular
right, vested in every particular man."

It is also to be considered, that the president and professors of this college have rights
to be affected by these acts. Their interest is similar to that of fellows in the English colleges;
because they derive their living, wholly or in part, from the founders' bounty. The president
is one of the trustees or corporators. The professors are not necessarily members of the corporation;
but they are appointed by the trustees, are removable only by them, and have fixed salaries
payable out of the general funds of the college. Both president and professors have freeholds
in their offices; subject only to be removed by the trustees, as their legal visitors, for
good cause. All the authorities speak of fellowships in colleges as freeholds, notwithstanding
the fellows may be liable to be suspended or removed, for misbehavior, by their constituted
visitors.

Nothing could have been less expected, in this age, than that there should have been an attempt,
by acts of the legislature, to take away these college livings, the inadequate but the only
support of literary men who have devoted their lives to the instruction of youth. The president
and professors were appointed by the twelve trustees. They were accountable to nobody else,
and could be removed by nobody else. They accepted their offices on this tenure. Yet the legislature
has appointed other persons, with power to remove these officers and to deprive them of their
livings; and those other persons have exercised that power. No description of private property
has been regarded as more sacred than college livings. They are the estates and freeholds of
a most deserving class of men; of scholars who have consented to forego the advantages of professional
and public employments, and to devote themselves to science and literature and the instruction
of youth in the quiet retreats of academic life. Whether to dispossess and oust them; to deprive
them of their office, and to turn them out of their livings; to do this, not by the power of
their legal visitors or governors, but by acts of the legislature, and to do it without forfeiture
and without fault; whether all this be not in the highest degree an indefensible and arbitrary
proceeding, is a question of which there would seem to be but one side fit for a lawyer or
a scholar to espouse.

If it could be made to appear that the trustees and the president and professors held their
offices and franchises during the pleasure of the legislature, and that the property holden
belonged to the State, then indeed the legislature have done no more than they had a right
to do. But this is not so. The charter is a charter of privileges and immunities; and these
are holden by the trustees expressly against the State for ever.

It is admitted that the State, by its courts of law, can enforce the will of the donor, and
compel a faithful execution of the trust. The plaintiffs claim no exemption from legal responsibility.
They hold themselves at all times answerable to the law of the land, for their conduct in the
trust committed to them. They ask only to hold the property of which they are owners, and the
franchises which belong to them, until they shall be found, by due course and process of law,
to have forfeited them.

It can make no difference whether the legislature exercise the power it has assumed by removing
the trustees and the president and professors, directly and by name, or by appointing others
to expel them. The principle is the same, and in point of fact the result has been the same.
If the entire franchise cannot be taken away, neither can it be essentially impaired. If the
trustees are legal owners of the property, they are sole owners. If they are visitors, they
are sole visitors. No one will be found to say, that, if the legislature may do what it has
done, it may not do any thing and every thing which it may choose to do, relative to the property
of the corporation, and the privileges of its members and officers.

If the view which has been taken of this question be at all correct, this was an eleemosynary
corporation, a private charity. The property was private property. The trustees were visitors,
and the right to hold the charter, administer the funds, and visit and govern the college,
was a franchise and privilege, solemnly granted to them. The use being public in no way diminishes
their legal estate in the property, or their title to the franchise. There is no principle,
nor any case, which declares that a gift to such a corporation is a gift to the public. The
acts in question violate property. They take away privileges, immunities, and franchises. They
deny to the trustees the protection of the law; and they are retrospective in their operation.
In all which respects they are against the constitution of New Hampshire.

The plaintiffs contend, in the second place, that the acts in question are repugnant to the
tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States.

The object of these most important provisions in the national constitution has often been discussed,
both here and elsewhere. It is exhibited with great clearness and force by one of the distinguished
persons who framed that instrument. "Bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws impairing
the obligation of contracts, are contrary to the first principles of the social compact, and
to every principle of sound legislation. The two former are expressly prohibited by the declarations
prefixed to some of the State constitutions, and all of them are prohibited by the spirit and
scope of these fundamental charters. Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless, that additional
fences against these dangers ought not to be omitted. Very properly, therefore, have the convention
added this constitutional bulwark, in favor of personal security and private rights; and I
am much deceived, if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted the genuine sentiments
as the undoubted interests of their constituents. The sober people of America are weary of
the fluctuating policy which has directed the public councils. They have seen with regret,
and with indignation, that sudden changes, and legislative interferences in cases affecting
personal rights, become jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and
snares to the more industrious and less informed part of the community. They have seen, too,
that one legislative interference is but the link of a long chain of repetitions; every subsequent
interference being naturally produced by the effects of the preceding."

It has already been decided in this court, that a grant is a contract, within the meaning of
this provision; and that a grant by a State is also a contract, as much as the grant of an
individual. In the case of Fletcher v. Peck, this court says: "A contract is a compact between
two or more parties, and is either executory or executed. An executory contract is one in which
a party binds himself to do, or not to do, a particular thing; such was the law under which
the conveyance was made by the government. A contract executed is one in which the object of
contract is performed; and this, says Blackstone, differs in nothing from a grant. The contract
between Georgia and the purchasers was executed by the grant. A contract executed, as well
as one which is executory, contains obligations binding on the parties. A grant, in its own
nature, amounts to an extinguishment of the right of the grantor, and implies a contract not
to reassert that right. If, under a fair construction of the Constitution, grants are comprehended
under the term contracts, is a grant from the State excluded from the operation of the provision?
Is the clause to be considered as inhibiting the State from impairing the obligation of contracts
between two individuals, but as excluding from that inhibition contracts made with itself?
The words themselves contain no such distinction. They are general, and are applicable to contracts
of every description. If contracts made with the State are to be exempted from their operation,
the exception must arise from the character of the contracting party, not from the words which
are employed. Whatever respect might have been felt for the State sovereignties, it is not
to be disguised that the framers of the Constitution viewed with some apprehension the violent
acts which might grow out of the feelings of the moment; and that the people of the United
States, in adopting that instrument, have manifested a determination to shield themselves and
their property from the effects of those sudden and strong passions to which men are exposed.
The restrictions on the legislative power of the States are obviously founded in this sentiment;
and the Constitution of the United States contains what may be deemed a bill of rights for
the people of each State."

It also has been decided that a grant by a State before the Revolution is as much to be protected
as a grant since. But the case of Terrett v. Taylor, before cited, is of all others most pertinent
to the present argument. Indeed, the judgment of the court in that case seems to leave little
to be argued or decided in this. "A private corporation," say the court, "created by the legislature,
may lose its franchises by a misuser or a nonuser of them; and they may be resumed by the government
under a judicial judgment upon a quo warranto to ascertain and enforce the forfeiture. This
is the common law of the land, and is a tacit condition annexed to the creation of every such
corporation. Upon a change of government, too, it may be admitted, that such exclusive privileges
attached to a private corporation as are inconsistent with the new government may be abolished.
In respect, also, to public corporations which exist only for public purposes, such as counties,
towns, cities, and so forth, the legislature may, under proper limitations, have a right to
change, modify, enlarge, or restrain them, securing, however, the property for the uses of
those for whom and at whose expense it was originally purchased. But that the legislature can
repeal statutes creating private corporations, or confirming to them property already acquired
under the faith of previous laws, and by such repeal can vest the property of such corporations
exclusively in the State, or dispose of the same to such purposes as they please, without the
consent or default of the corporators, we are not prepared to admit; and we think ourselves
standing upon the principles of natural justice, upon the fundamental laws of every free government,
upon the spirit and letter of the Constitution of the United States, and upon the decisions
of most respectable judicial tribunals, in resisting such a doctrine."

This court, then, does not admit the doctrine, that a legislature can repeal statutes creating
private corporations. If it cannot repeal them altogether, of course it cannot repeal any part
of them, or impair them, or essentially alter them, without the consent of the corporators.
If, therefore, it has been shown that this college is to be regarded as a private charity,
this case is embraced within the very terms of that decision. A grant of corporate powers and
privileges is as much a contract as a grant of land. What proves all charters of this sort
to be contracts is, that they must be accepted to give them force and effect. If they are not
accepted, they are void. And in the case of an existing corporation, if a new charter is given
it, it may even accept part and reject the rest. In Rex v. Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge, Lord
Mansfield says: "There is a vast deal of difference between a new charter granted to a new
corporation, (who must take it as it is given,) and a new charter given to a corporation already
in being, and acting either under a former charter or under prescriptive usage. The latter,
a corporation already existing, are not obliged to accept the new charter in toto, and to receive
either all or none of it; they may act partly under it, and partly under their old charter
or prescription. The validity of these new charters must turn upon the acceptance of them."
In the same case Mr. Justice Wilmot says: "It is the concurrence and acceptance of the university
that gives the force to the charter of the crown." In the King v. Pasmore, Lord Kenyon observes:
"Some things are clear: when a corporation exists capable of discharging its functions, the
crown cannot obtrude another charter upon them; they may either accept or reject it."

And because charters of incorporation are of the nature of contracts, they cannot be altered
or varied but by consent of the original parties. If a charter be granted by the king, it may
be altered by a new charter granted by the king, and accepted by the corporators. But if the
first charter be granted by Parliament, the consent of Parliament must be obtained to any alteration.
In King v. Miller, Lord Kenyon says: "Where a corporation takes its rise from the king's charter,
the king by granting, and the corporation by accepting another charter, may alter it, because
it is done with the consent of all the parties who are competent to consent to the alteration."

There are, in this case, all the essential constituent parts of a contract. There is something
to be contracted about, there are parties, and there are plain terms in which the agreement
of the parties on the subject of the contract is expressed. There are mutual considerations
and inducements. The charter recites, that the founder, on his part, has agreed to establish
his seminary in New Hampshire, and to enlarge it beyond its original design, among other things,
for the benefit of that Province; and thereupon a charter is given to him and his associates,
designated by himself, promising and assuring to them, under the plighted faith of the State,
the right of governing the college and administering its concerns in the manner provided in
the charter. There is a complete and perfect grant to them of all the power of superintendence,
visitation, and government. Is not this a contract? If lands or money had been granted to him
and his associates, for the same purposes, such grant could not be rescinded. And is there
any difference, in legal contemplation, between a grant of corporate franchises and a grant
of tangible property? No such difference is recognized in any decided case, nor does it exist
in the common apprehension of mankind.

It is therefore contended, that this case falls within the true meaning of this provision of
the Constitution, as expounded in the decisions of this court; that the charter of 1769 is
a contract, a stipulation or agreement, mutual in its considerations, express and formal in
its terms, and of a most binding and solemn nature. That the acts in question impair this contract,
has already been sufficiently shown. They repeal and abrogate its most essential parts.

A single observation may not be improper on the opinion of the court of New Hampshire, which
has been published. The learned judges who delivered that opinion have viewed this question
in a very different light from that in which the plaintiffs have endeavored to exhibit it.
After some general remarks, they assume that this college is a public corporation; and on this
basis their judgment rests. Whether all colleges are not regarded as private and eleemosynary
corporations, by all law writers and all judicial decisions; whether this college was not founded
by Dr. Wheelock; whether the charter was not granted at his request, the better to execute
a trust, which he had already created; whether he and his associates did not become visitors,
by the charter; and whether Dartmouth College be not, therefore, in the strictest sense, a
private charity, are questions which the learned judges do not appear to have discussed.

It is admitted in that opinion, that, if it be a private corporation, its rights stand on the
same ground as those of an individual. The great question, therefore, to be decided is, To
which class of corporations do colleges thus founded belong? And the plaintiffs have endeavored
to satisfy the court, that, according to the well-settled principles and uniform decisions
of law, they are private, eleemosynary corporations.

Much has heretofore been said on the necessity of admitting such a power in the legislature
as has been assumed in this case. Many cases of possible evil have been imagined, which might
otherwise be without remedy. Abuses, it is contended, might arise in the management of such
institutions, which the ordinary courts of law would be unable to correct. But this is only
another instance of that habit of supposing extreme cases, and then of reasoning from them,
which is the constant refuge of those who are obliged to defend a cause, which, upon its merits,
is indefensible. It would be sufficient to say in answer, that it is not pretended that there
was here any such case of necessity. But a still more satisfactory answer is, that the apprehension
of danger is groundless, and therefore the whole argument fails. Experience has not taught
us that there is danger of great evils or of great inconvenience from this source. Hitherto,
neither in our own country nor elsewhere have such cases of necessity occurred. The judicial
establishments of the State are presumed to be competent to prevent abuses and violations of
trust, in cases of this kind, as well as in all others. If they be not, they are imperfect,
and their amendment would be a most proper subject for legislative wisdom. Under the government
and protection of the general laws of the land, these institutions have always been found safe,
as well as useful. They go on, with the progress of society, accommodating themselves easily,
without sudden change or violence, to the alterations which take place in its condition, and
in the knowledge, the habits, and pursuits of men. The English colleges were founded in Catholic
ages. Their religion was reformed with the general reformation of the nation; and they are
suited perfectly well to the purpose of educating the Protestant youth of modern times. Dartmouth
College was established under a charter granted by the Provincial government; but a better
constitution for a college or one more adapted to the condition of things under the present
government, in all material respects, could not now be framed. Nothing in it was found to need
alteration at the Revolution. The wise men of that day saw in it one of the best hopes of future
times, and commended it as it was, with parental care, to the protection and guardianship of
the government of the State. A charter of more liberal sentiments, of wiser provisions, drawn
with more care, or in a better spirit, could not be expected at any time or from any source.
The college needed no change in its organization or government. That which it did need was
the kindness, the patronage, the bounty of the legislature; not a mock elevation to the character
of a university, without the solid benefit of a shilling's donation to sustain the character;
not the swelling and empty authority of establishing institutes and other colleges. This unsubstantial
pageantry would seem to have been in derision of the scanty endowment and limited means of
an unobtrusive, but useful and growing seminary. Least of all was there a necessity, or pretence
of necessity, to infringe its legal rights, violate its franchises and privileges, and pour
upon it these overwhelming streams of litigation.

But this argument from necessity would equally apply in all other cases. If it be well founded,
it would prove, that, whenever any inconvenience or evil is experienced from the restrictions
imposed on the legislature by the Constitution, these restrictions ought to be disregarded.
It is enough to say, that the people have thought otherwise. They have, most wisely, chosen
to take the risk of occasional inconvenience from the want of power, in order that there might
be a settled limit to its exercise, and a permanent security against its abuse. They have imposed
prohibitions and restraints; and they have not rendered these altogether vain and nugatory
by conferring the power of dispensation. If inconvenience should arise which the legislature
cannot remedy under the power conferred upon it, it is not answerable for such inconvenience.
That which it cannot do within the limits prescribed to it, it cannot do at all. No legislature
in this country is able, and may the time never come when it shall be able, to apply to itself
the memorable expression of a Roman pontiff: "Licet hoc de jure non possumus, volumus tamen
de plenitudine potestatis."

The case before the court is not of ordinary importance, nor of every-day occurrence. It affects
not this college only, but every college, and all the literary institutions of the country.
They have flourished hitherto, and have become in a high degree respectable and useful to the
community. They have all a common principle of existence, the inviolability of their charters.
It will be a dangerous, a most dangerous experiment, to hold these institutions subject to
the rise and fall of popular parties, and the fluctuations of political opinions. If the franchise
may be at any time taken away, or impaired, the property also may be taken away, or its use
perverted. Benefactors will have no certainty of effecting the object of their bounty; and
learned men will be deterred from devoting themselves to the service of such institutions,
from the precarious title of their offices. Colleges and halls will be deserted by all better
spirits, and become a theatre for the contentions of politics, Party and faction will be cherished
in the places consecrated to piety and learning. These consequences are neither remote nor
possible only. They are certain and immediate.

When the court in North Carolina declared the law of the State, which repealed a grant to its
university, unconstitutional and void, the legislature had the candor and the wisdom to repeal
the law. This example, so honorable to the State which exhibited it, is most fit to be followed
on this occasion. And there is good reason to hope that a State, which has hitherto been so
much distinguished for temperate counsels, cautious legislation, and regard to law, will not
fail to adopt a course which will accord with her highest and best interests, and in no small
degree elevate her reputation. It was for many and obvious reasons most anxiously desired that
the question of the power of the legislature over this charter should have been finally decided
in the State court. An earnest hope was entertained that the judges of the court might have
viewed the case in a light favorable to the rights of the trustees. That hope has failed. It
is here that those rights are now to be maintained, or they are prostrated for ever. "Omnia
alia perfugia bonorum, subsidia, consilia, auxilia, jura ceciderunt. Quem enim alium appellem?
quem obtester? quern implorem? Nisi hoc loco, nisi apud vos, nisi per vos, judices, salutem
nostram, quae spe exigua extremaque pendet, tenuerimus; nihil est praeterea quo confugere possimus."
[1]

This, sir, is my case. It is the case, not merely of that humble institution, it is the case
of every college in the land. It is more. It is the case of every eleemosynary institution
throughout our country--of all those great charities formed by the piety of our ancestors,
to alleviate human misery, and scatter blessings along the pathway of life. It is more! It
is, in some sense, the case of every man among us who has property, of which he may be stripped,
for the question is simply this: Shall our State legislatures be allowed to take that which
is not their own, to turn it from its original use, and apply it to such ends or purposes as
they in their discretion shall see fit?

Sir, you may destroy this little institution; it is weak; it is in your hands! I know it is
one of the lesser lights in the literary horizon of our country. You may put it out. But, if
you do so, you must carry through your work! You must extinguish, one after another, all those
greater lights of science, which, for more than a century, have thrown their radiance over
our land!

It is, sir, as I have said, a small college, and yet there are those who love it. [2]

Sir, I know not how others may feel (glancing at the opponents of the colleges before him),
but for myself, when I see my Alma Mater surrounded, like Caesar, in the senate house, by those
who are reiterating stab after stab, I would not, for this right hand, have her turn to me,
and say, et tu quoque, mi fili! And thou too, my son! [3]

First Settlement of New England.

Let us rejoice that we behold this day. Let us be thankful that we have lived to see the bright
and happy breaking of the auspicious morn, which commences the third century of the history
of New England. Auspicious, indeed,--bringing a happiness beyond the common allotment of Providence
to men,--full of present joy, and gilding with bright beams the prospect of futurity, is the
dawn that awakens us to the commemoration of the landing of the Pilgrims.

Living at an epoch which naturally marks the progress of the history of our native land, we
have come hither to celebrate the great event with which that history commenced. For ever honored
be this, the place of our fathers' refuge! For ever remembered the day which saw them, weary
and distressed, broken in every thing but spirit, poor in all but faith and courage, at last
secure from the dangers of wintry seas, and impressing this shore with the first footsteps
of civilized man!

It is a noble faculty of our nature which enables us to connect our thoughts, our sympathies,
and our happiness with what is distant in place or time; and, looking before and after, to
hold communion at once with our ancestors and our posterity. Human and mortal although we are,
we are nevertheless not mere insulated beings, without relation to the past or the future.
Neither the point of time, nor the spot of earth, in which we physically live, bounds our rational
and intellectual enjoyments. We live in the past by a knowledge of its history; and in the
future, by hope and anticipation. By ascending to an association with our ancestors; by contemplating
their example and studying their character; by partaking their sentiments, and imbibing their
spirit; by accompanying them in their toils, by sympathizing in their sufferings, and rejoicing
in their successes and their triumphs; we seem to belong to their age, and to mingle our own
existence with theirs. We become their contemporaries, live the lives which they lived, endure
what they endured, and partake in the rewards which they enjoyed. And in like manner, by running
along the line of future time, by contemplating the probable fortunes of those who are coming
after us, by attempting something which may promote their happiness, and leave some not dishonorable
memorial of ourselves for their regard, when we shall sleep with the fathers, we protract our
own earthly being, and seem to crowd whatever is future, as well as all that is past, into
the narrow compass of our earthly existence. As it is not a vain and false, but an exalted
and religious imagination, which leads us to raise our thoughts from the orb, which, amidst
this universe of worlds, the Creator has given us to inhabit, and to send them with something
of the feeling which nature prompts, and teaches to be proper among children of the same Eternal
Parent, to the contemplation of the myriads of fellow- beings with which his goodness has peopled
the infinite of space; so neither is it false or vain to consider ourselves as interested and
connected with our whole race, through all time; allied to our ancestors; allied to our posterity;
closely compacted on all sides with others; ourselves being but links in the great chain of
being, which begins with the origin of our race, runs onward through its successive generations,
binding together the past, the present, and the future, and terminating at last, with the consummation
of all things earthly, at the throne of God.

There may be, and there often is, indeed, a regard for ancestry, which nourishes only a weak
pride; as there is also a care for posterity, which only disguises an habitual avarice, or
hides the workings of a low and grovelling vanity. But there is also a moral and philosophical
respect for our ancestors, which elevates the character and improves the heart. Next to the
sense of religious duty and moral feeling, I hardly know what should bear with stronger obligation
on a liberal and enlightened mind, than a consciousness of alliance with excellence which is
departed; and a consciousness, too, that in its acts and conduct, and even in its sentiments
and thoughts, it may be actively operating on the happiness of those who come after it. Poetry
is found to have few stronger conceptions, by which it would affect or overwhelm the mind,
than those in which it presents the moving and speaking image of the departed dead to the senses
of the living. This belongs to poetry, only because it is congenial to our nature. Poetry is,
in this respect, but the handmaid of true philosophy and morality; it deals with us as human
beings, naturally reverencing those whose visible connection with this state of existence is
severed, and who may yet exercise we know not what sympathy with ourselves; and when it carries
us forward, also, and shows us the long continued result of all the good we do, in the prosperity
of those who follow us, till it bears us from ourselves, and absorbs us in an intense interest
for what shall happen to the generations after us, it speaks only in the language of our nature,
and affects us with sentiments which belong to us as human beings.

Standing in this relation to our ancestors and our posterity, we are assembled on this memorable
spot, to perform the duties which that relation and the present occasion impose upon us. We
have come to this Rock, to record here our homage for our Pilgrim Fathers; our sympathy in
their sufferings; our gratitude for their labors; our admiration of their virtues; our veneration
for their piety; and our attachment to those principles of civil and religious liberty, which
they encountered the dangers of the ocean, the storms of heaven, the violence of savages, disease,
exile, and famine, to enjoy and to establish. And we would leave here, also, for the generations
which are rising up rapidly to fill our places, some proof that we have endeavored to transmit
the great inheritance unimpaired; that in our estimate of public principles and private virtue,
in our veneration of religion and piety, in our devotion to civil and religious liberty, in
our regard for whatever advances human knowledge or improves human happiness, we are not altogether
unworthy of our origin.

There is a local feeling connected with this occasion, too strong to be resisted; a sort of
genius of the place, which inspires and awes us. We feel that we are on the spot where the
first scene of our history was laid; where the hearths and altars of New England were first
placed; where Christianity, and civilization, and letters made their first lodgement, in a
vast extent of country, covered with a wilderness, and peopled by roving barbarians. We are
here, at the season of the year at which the event took place. The imagination irresistibly
and rapidly draws around us the principal features and the leading characters in the original
scene. We cast our eyes abroad on the ocean, and we see where the little bark, with the interesting
group upon its deck, made its slow progress to the shore. We look around us, and behold the
hills and promontories where the anxious eyes of our fathers first saw the places of habitation
and of rest. We feel the cold which benumbed, and listen to the winds which pierced them. Beneath
us is the Rock, on which New England received the feet of the Pilgrims. We seem even to behold
them, as they struggle with the elements, and, with toilsome efforts, gain the shore. We listen
to the chiefs in council; we see the unexampled exhibition of female fortitude and resignation;
we hear the whisperings of youthful impatience, and we see, what a painter of our own has also
represented by his pencil [1], chilled and shivering childhood, houseless, but for a mother's
arms, couchless, but for a mother's breast, till our own blood almost freezes. The mild dignity
of Carver and of Bradford; the decisive and soldier-like air and manner of Standish; the devout
Brewster; the enterprising Allerton; [2] the general firmness and thoughtfulness of the whole
band; their conscious joy for dangers escaped; their deep solicitude about dangers to come;
their trust in Heaven; their high religious faith, full of confidence and anticipation; all
of these seem to belong to this place, and to be present upon this occasion, to fill us with
reverence and admiration.

The settlement of New England by the colony which landed here on the twenty-second [3] of December,
sixteen hundred and twenty, although not the first European establishment in what now constitutes
the United States, was yet so peculiar in its causes and character, and has been followed and
must still be followed by such consequences, as to give it a high claim to lasting commemoration.
On these causes and consequences, more than on its immediately attendant circumstances, its
importance, as an historical event, depends. Great actions and striking occurrences, having
excited a temporary admiration, often pass away and are forgotten, because they leave no lasting
results, affecting the prosperity and happiness of communities. Such is frequently the fortune
of the most brilliant military achievements. Of the ten thousand battles which have been fought,
of all the fields fertilized with carnage, of the banners which have been bathed in blood,
of the warriors who have hoped that they had risen from the field of conquest to a glory as
bright and as durable as the stars, how few that continue long to interest mankind! The victory
of yesterday is reversed by the defeat of to-day; the star of military glory, rising like a
meteor, like a meteor has fallen; disgrace and disaster hang on the heels of conquest and renown;
victor and vanquished presently pass away to oblivion, and the world goes on in its course,
with the loss only of so many lives and so much treasure.

But if this be frequently, or generally, the fortune of military achievements, it is not always
so. There are enterprises, military as well as civil, which sometimes check the current of
events, give a new turn to human affairs, and transmit their consequences through ages. We
see their importance in their results, and call them great, because great things follow. There
have been battles which have fixed the fate of nations. These come down to us in history with
a solid and permanent interest, not created by a display of glittering armor, the rush of adverse
battalions, the sinking and rising of pennons, the flight, the pursuit, and the victory; but
by their effect in advancing or retarding human knowledge, in overthrowing or establishing
despotism, in extending or destroying human happiness. When the traveller pauses on the plain
of Marathon, what are the emotions which most strongly agitate his breast? What is that glorious
recollection, which thrills through his frame, and suffuses his eyes? Not, I imagine, that
Grecian skill and Grecian valor were here most signally displayed; but that Greece herself
was saved. It is because to this spot, and to the event which has rendered it immortal, he
refers all the succeeding glories of the republic. It is because, if that day had gone otherwise,
Greece had perished. It is because he perceives that her philosophers and orators, her poets
and painters, her sculptors and architects, her governments and free institutions, point backward
to Marathon, and that their future existence seems to have been suspended on the contingency,
whether the Persian or the Grecian banner should wave victorious in the beams of that day's
setting sun. And, as his imagination kindles at the retrospect, he is transported back to the
interesting moment; he counts the fearful odds of the contending hosts; his interest for the
result overwhelms him; he trembles, as if it were still uncertain, and seems to doubt whether
he may consider Socrates and Plato, Demosthenes, Sophocles, and Phidias, as secure, yet, to
himself and to the world.

"If we conquer," said the Athenian commander on the approach of that decisive day, "if we conquer,
we shall make Athens the greatest city of Greece." [4] A prophecy how well fulfilled! "If God
prosper us," might have been the more appropriate language of our fathers, when they landed
upon this Rock, "if God prosper us, we shall here begin a work which shall last for ages; we
shall plant here a new society, in the principles of the fullest liberty and the purest religion;
we shall subdue this wilderness which is before us; we shall fill this region of the great
continent, which stretches almost from pole to pole, with civilization and Christianity; the
temples of the true God shall rise, where now ascends the smoke of idolatrous sacrifice; fields
and gardens, the flowers of summer, and the waving and golden harvest of autumn, shall spread
over a thousand hills, and stretch along a thousand valleys, never yet, since the creation,
reclaimed to the use of civilized man. We shall whiten this coast with the canvas of a prosperous
commerce; we shall stud the long and winding shore with a hundred cities. That which we sow
in weakness shall be raised in strength. From our sincere, but houseless worship, there shall
spring splendid temples to record God's goodness; from the simplicity of our social union,
there shall arise wise and politic constitutions of government, full of the liberty which we
ourselves bring and breathe; from our zeal for learning, institutions shall spring which shall
scatter the light of knowledge throughout the land, and, in time, paying back where they have
borrowed, shall contribute their part to the great aggregate of human knowledge; and our descendants,
through all generations, shall look back to this spot, and to this hour, with unabated affection
and regard."

A brief remembrance of the causes which led to the settlement of this place; some account of
the peculiarities and characteristic qualities of that settlement, as distinguished from other
instances of colonization; a short notice of the progress of New England in the great interests
of society, during the century which is now elapsed; with a few observations on the principles
upon which society and government are established in this country: comprise all that can be
attempted, and much more than can be satisfactorily performed, on the present occasion.

Of the motives which influenced the first settlers to a voluntary exile, induced them to relinquish
their native country, and to seek an asylum in this then unexplored wilderness, the first and
principal, no doubt, were connected with religion. They sought to enjoy a higher degree of
religious freedom, and what they esteemed a purer form of religious worship, than was allowed
to their choice, or presented to their imitation, in the Old World. The love of religious liberty
is a stronger sentiment, when fully excited, than an attachment to civil or political freedom.
That freedom which the conscience demands, and which men feel bound by their hope of salvation
to contend for, can hardly fail to be attained. Conscience, in the cause of religion and the
worship of the Deity, prepares the mind to act and to suffer beyond almost all other causes.
It sometimes gives an impulse so irresistible, that no fetters of power or of opinion can withstand
it. History instructs us that this love of religious liberty, a compound sentiment in the breast
of man, made up of the clearest sense of right and the highest conviction of duty, is able
to look the sternest despotism in the face, and, with means apparently most inadequate, to
shake principalities and powers. There is a boldness, a spirit of daring, in religious reformers,
not to be measured by the general rules which control men's purposes and actions. If the hand
of power be laid upon it, this only seems to augment its force and its elasticity, and to cause
its action to be more formidable and violent. Human invention has devised nothing, human power
has compassed nothing, that can forcibly restrain it, when it breaks forth. Nothing can stop
it, but to give way to it; nothing can check it, but indulgence. It loses its power only when
it has gained its object. The principle of toleration, to which the world has come so slowly,
is at once the most just and the most wise of all principles. Even when religious feeling takes
a character of extravagance and enthusiasm, and seems to threaten the order of society and
shake the columns of the social edifice, its principal danger is in its restraint. If it be
allowed indulgence and expansion, like the elemental fires, it only agitates, and perhaps purifies,
the atmosphere; while its efforts to throw off restraint would burst the world asunder.

It is certain, that, although many of them were republicans in principle, we have no evidence
that our New England ancestors would have emigrated, as they did, from their own native country,
would have become wanderers in Europe, and finally would have undertaken the establishment
of a colony here, merely from their dislike of the political systems of Europe. They fled not
so much from the civil government, as from the hierarchy, and the laws which enforced conformity
to the church establishment. Mr. Robinson had left England as early as 1608, on account of
the persecutions for non- conformity, and had retired to Holland. He left England from no disappointed
ambition in affairs of state, from no regrets at the want of preferment in the church, nor
from any motive of distinction or of gain. Uniformity in matters of religion was pressed with
such extreme rigor, that a voluntary exile seemed the most eligible mode of escaping from the
penalties of non-compliance. The accession of Elizabeth had, it is true, quenched the fires
of Smithfield, and put an end to the easy acquisition of the crown of martyrdom. Her long reign
had established the Reformation, but toleration was a virtue beyond her conception, and beyond
the age. She left no example of it to her successor; and he was not of a character which rendered
it probable that a sentiment either so wise or so liberal would originate with him. At the
present period it seems incredible that the learned, accomplished, unassuming, and inoffensive
Robinson should neither be tolerated in his peaceable mode of worship in his own country, nor
suffered quietly to depart from it. Yet such was the fact. He left his country by stealth,
that he might elsewhere enjoy those rights which ought to belong to men in all countries. The
departure of the Pilgrims for Holland is deeply interesting, from its circumstances, and also
as it marks the character of the times, independently of its connection with names now incorporated
with the history of empire. [5] The embarkation was intended to be made in such a manner that
it might escape the notice of the officers of government. Great pains had been taken to secure
boats, which should come undiscovered to the shore, and receive the fugitives; and frequent
disappointments had been experienced in this respect.

At length the appointed time came, bringing with it unusual severity of cold and rain. An unfrequented
and barren heath, on the shores of Lincolnshire, was the selected spot, where the feet of the
Pilgrims were to tread, for the last time, the land of their fathers. The vessel which was
to receive them did not come until the next day, and in the meantime the little band was collected,
and men and women and children and baggage were crowded together, in melancholy and distressed
confusion. The sea was rough, and the women and children were already sick, from their passage
down the river to the place of embarkation on the sea. At length the wished-for boat silently
and fearfully approaches the shore, and men and women and children, shaking with fear and with
cold, as many as the small vessel could bear, venture off on a dangerous sea. Immediately the
advance of horses is heard from behind, armed men appear, and those not yet embarked are seized
and taken into custody. In the hurry of the moment, the first parties had been sent on board
without any attempt to keep members of the same family together, and on account of the appearance
of the horsemen, the boat never returned for the residue. Those who had got away, and those
who had not, were in equal distress. A storm, of great violence and long duration, arose at
sea, which not only protracted the voyage, rendered distressing by the want of all those accommodations
which the interruption of the embarkation had occasioned, but also forced the vessel out of
her course, and menaced immediate shipwreck; while those on shore, when they were dismissed
from the custody of the officers of justice, having no longer homes or houses to retire to,
and their friends and protectors being already gone, became objects of necessary charity, as
well as of deep commiseration.

As this scene passes before us, we can hardly forbear asking whether this be a band of malefactors
and felons flying from justice. What are their crimes, that they hide themselves in darkness?
To what punishment are they exposed, that, to avoid it, men, and women, and children, thus
encounter the surf of the North Sea and the terrors of a night storm? What induces this armed
pursuit, and this arrest of fugitives, of all ages and both sexes? Truth does not allow us
to answer these inquiries in a manner that does credit to the wisdom or the justice of the
times. This was not the flight of guilt, but of virtue. It was an humble and peaceable religion,
flying from causeless oppression. It was conscience, attempting to escape from the arbitrary
rule of the Stuarts. It was Robinson and Brewster, leading off their little band from their
native soil, at first to find shelter on the shore of the neighboring continent, but ultimately
to come hither; and having surmounted all difficulties and braved a thousand dangers, to find
here a place of refuge and of rest. Thanks be to God, that this spot was honored as the asylum
of religious liberty! May its standard, reared here, remain for ever! May it rise up as high
as heaven, till its banner shall fan the air of both continents, and wave as a glorious ensign
of peace and security to the nations!

The peculiar character, condition, and circumstances of the colonies which introduced civilization
and an English race into New England, afford a most interesting and extensive topic of discussion.
On these, much of our subsequent character and fortune has depended. Their influence has essentially
affected our whole history, through the two centuries which have elapsed; and as they have
become intimately connected with government, laws, and property, as well as with our opinions
on the subjects of religion and civil liberty, that influence is likely to continue to be felt
through the centuries which shall succeed. Emigration from one region to another, and the emission
of colonies to people countries more or less distant from the residence of the parent stock,
are common incidents in the history of mankind; but it has not often, perhaps never, happened,
that the establishment of colonies should be attempted under circumstances, however beset with
present difficulties and dangers, yet so favorable to ultimate success, and so conducive to
magnificent results, as those which attended the first settlements on this part of the American
continent. In other instances, emigration has proceeded from a less exalted purpose, in periods
of less general intelligence, or more without plan and by accident; or under circumstances,
physical and moral, less favorable to the expectation of laying a foundation for great public
prosperity and future empire.

A great resemblance exists, obviously, between all the English colonies established within
the present limits of the United States; but the occasion attracts our attention more immediately
to those which took possession of New England, and the peculiarities of these furnish a strong
contrast with most other instances of colonization.

Among the ancient nations, the Greeks, no doubt, sent forth from their territories the greatest
number of colonies. So numerous, indeed, were they, and so great the extent of space over which
they were spread, that the parent country fondly and naturally persuaded herself, that by means
of them she had laid a sure foundation for the universal civilization of the world. These establishments,
from obvious causes, were most numerous in places most contiguous; yet they were found on the
coasts of France, on the shores of the Euxine Sea, in Africa, and even, as is alleged, on the
borders of India. These emigrations appear to have been sometimes voluntary and sometimes compulsory;
arising from the spontaneous enterprise of individuals, or the order and regulation of government.
It was a common opinion with ancient writers, that they were undertaken in religious obedience
to the commands of oracles, and it is probable that impressions of this sort might have had
more or less influence; but it is probable, also, that on these occasions the oracles did not
speak a language dissonant from the views and purposes of the state.

Political science among the Greeks seems never to have extended to the comprehension of a system,
which should be adequate to the government of a great nation upon principles of liberty. They
were accustomed only to the contemplation of small republics, and were led to consider an augmented
population as incompatible with free institutions. The desire of a remedy for this supposed
evil, and the wish to establish marts for trade, led the governments often to undertake the
establishment of colonies as an affair of state expediency. Colonization and commerce, indeed,
would naturally become objects of interest to an ingenious and enterprising people, inhabiting
a territory closely circumscribed in its limits, and in no small part mountainous and sterile;
while the islands of the adjacent seas, and the promontories and coasts of the neighboring
continents, by their mere proximity, strongly solicited the excited spirit of emigration. Such
was this proximity, in many instances, that the new settlements appeared rather to be the mere
extension of population over contiguous territory, than the establishment of distant colonies.
In proportion as they were near to the parent state, they would be under its authority, and
partake of its fortunes. The colony at Marseilles might perceive lightly, or not at all, the
sway of Phocis; while the islands in the Aegean Sea could hardly attain to independence of
their Athenian origin. Many of these establishments took place at an early age; and if there
were defects in the governments of the parent states, the colonists did not possess philosophy
or experience sufficient to correct such evils in their own institutions, even if they had
not been, by other causes, deprived of the power. An immediate necessity, connected with the
support of life, was the main and direct inducement to these undertakings, and there could
hardly exist more than the hope of a successful imitation of institutions with which they were
already acquainted, and of holding an equality with their neighbors in the course of improvement.
The laws and customs, both political and municipal, as well as the religious worship of the
parent city, were transferred to the colony; and the parent city herself, with all such of
her colonies as were not too far remote for frequent intercourse and common sentiments, would
appear like a family of cities, more or less dependent, and more or less connected. We know
how imperfect this system was, as a system of general politics, and what scope it gave to those
mutual dissensions and conflicts which proved so fatal to Greece.

But it is more pertinent to our present purpose to observe, that nothing existed in the character
of Grecian emigrations, or in the spirit and intelligence of the emigrants, likely to give
a new and important direction to human affairs, or a new impulse to the human mind. Their motives
were not high enough, their views were not sufficiently large and prospective. They went not
forth, like our ancestors, to erect systems of more perfect civil liberty, or to enjoy a higher
degree of religious freedom. Above all, there was nothing in the religion and learning of the
age, that could either inspire high purposes, or give the ability to execute them. Whatever
restraints on civil liberty, or whatever abuses in religious worship, existed at the time of
our fathers' emigration, yet even then all was light in the moral and mental world, in comparison
with its condition in most periods of the ancient states. The settlement of a new continent,
in an age of progressive knowledge and improvement, could not but do more than merely enlarge
the natural boundaries of the habitable world. It could not but do much more even than extend
commerce and increase wealth among the human race. We see how this event has acted, how it
must have acted, and wonder only why it did not act sooner, in the production of moral effects,
on the state of human knowledge, the general tone of human sentiments, and the prospects of
human happiness. It gave to civilized man not only a new continent to be inhabited and cultivated,
and new seas to be explored; but it gave him also a new range for his thoughts, new objects
for curiosity, and new excitements to knowledge and improvement.

Roman colonization resembled, far less than that of the Greeks, the original settlements of
this country. Power and dominion were the objects of Rome, even in her colonial establishments.
Her whole exterior aspect was for centuries hostile and terrific. She grasped at dominion,
from India to Britain, and her measures of colonization partook of the character of her general
system. Her policy was military, because her objects were power, ascendency, and subjugation.
Detachments of emigrants from Rome incorporated themselves with, and governed, the original
inhabitants of conquered countries. She sent citizens where she had first sent soldiers; her
law followed her sword. Her colonies were a sort of military establishment; so many advanced
posts in the career of her dominion. A governor from Rome ruled the new colony with absolute
sway, and often with unbounded rapacity. In Sicily, in Gaul, in Spain, and in Asia, the power
of Rome prevailed, not nominally only, but really and effectually. Those who immediately exercised
it were Roman; the tone and tendency of its administration, Roman. Rome herself continued to
be the heart and centre of the great system which she had established. [6] Extortion and rapacity,
finding a wide and often rich field of action in the provinces, looked nevertheless to the
banks of the Tiber, as the scene in which their ill-gotten treasures should be displayed; or,
if a spirit of more honest acquisition prevailed, the object, nevertheless, was ultimate enjoyment
in Rome itself. If our own history and our own times did not sufficiently expose the inherent
and incurable evils of provincial government, we might see them portrayed, to our amazement,
in the desolated and ruined provinces of the Roman empire. We might hear them, in a voice that
terrifies us, in those strains of complaint and accusation, which the advocates of the provinces
poured forth in the Roman Forum:-- "Quas res luxuries in flagitiis, crudelitas in suppliciis,
avaritia in rapinis, superbia in contumeliis, efficere potuisset, eas omnes sese pertulisse."

As was to be expected, the Roman Provinces partook of the fortunes, as well as of the sentiments
and general character, of the seat of empire. They lived together with her, they flourished
with her, and fell with her. The branches were lopped away even before the vast and venerable
trunk itself fell prostrate to the earth. Nothing had proceeded from her which could support
itself, and bear up the name of its origin, when her own sustaining arm should be enfeebled
or withdrawn. It was not given to Rome to see, either at her zenith or in her decline, a child
of her own, distant, indeed, and independent of her control, yet speaking her language and
inheriting her blood, springing forward to a competition with her own power, and a comparison
with her own great renown. She saw not a vast region of the earth peopled from her stock, full
of states and political communities, improving upon the models of her institutions, and breathing
in fuller measure the spirit which she had breathed in the best periods of her existence; enjoying
and extending her arts and her literature; rising rapidly from political childhood to manly
strength and independence; her offspring, yet now her equal; unconnected with the causes which
might affect the duration of her own power and greatness; of common origin, but not linked
to a common fate; giving ample pledge, that her name should not be forgotten, that her language
should not cease to be used among men; that whatsoever she had done for human knowledge and
human happiness should be treasured up and preserved; that the record of her existence and
her achievements should not be obscured, although, in the inscrutable purposes of Providence,
it might be her destiny to fall from opulence and splendor; although the time might come, when
darkness should settle on all her hills; when foreign or domestic violence should overturn
her altars and her temples; when ignorance and despotism should fill the places where Laws,
and Arts, and Liberty had flourished; when the feet of barbarism should trample on the tombs
of her consuls, and the walls of her senate- house and forum echo only to the voice of savage
triumph. She saw not this glorious vision, to inspire and fortify her against the possible
decay or downfall of her power. Happy are they who in our day may behold it, if they shall
contemplate it with the sentiments which it ought to inspire!

The New England Colonies differ quite as widely from the Asiatic establishments of the modern
European nations, as from the models of the ancient states. The sole object of those establishments
was originally trade; although we have seen, in one of them, the anomaly of a mere trading
company attaining a political character, disbursing revenues, and maintaining armies and fortresses,
until it has extended its control over seventy millions of people. Differing from these, and
still more from the New England and North American Colonies, are the European settlements in
the West India Islands. It is not strange, that, when men's minds were turned to the settlement
of America, different objects should be proposed by those who emigrated to the different regions
of so vast a country. Climate, soil, and condition were not equally favorable to all pursuits.
In the West Indies, the purpose of those who went thither was to engage in that species of
agriculture, suited to the soil and climate, which seems to bear more resemblance to commerce
than to the hard and plain tillage of New England. The great staples of these countries, being
partly an agricultural and partly a manufactured product, and not being of the necessaries
of life, become the object of calculation, with respect to a profitable investment of capital,
like any other enterprise of trade or manufacture. The more especially, as, requiring, by necessity
or habit, slave labor for their production, the capital necessary to carry on the work of this
production is very considerable. The West Indies are resorted to, therefore, rather for the
investment of capital than for the purpose of sustaining life by personal labor. Such as possess
a considerable amount of capital, or such as choose to adventure in commercial speculations
without capital, can alone be fitted to be emigrants to the islands. The agriculture of these
regions, as before observed, is a sort of commerce; and it is a species of employment in which
labor seems to form an inconsiderable ingredient in the productive causes, since the portion
of white labor is exceedingly small, and slave labor is rather more like profit on stock or
capital than labor properly so called. The individual who undertakes an establishment of this
kind takes into the account the cost of the necessary number of slaves, in the same manner
as he calculates the cost of the land. The uncertainty, too, of this species of employment,
affords another ground of resemblance to commerce. Although gainful on the whole, and in a
series of years, it is often very disastrous for a single year, and, as the capital is not
readily invested in other pursuits, bad crops or bad markets not only affect the profits, but
the capital itself. Hence the sudden depressions which take place in the value of such estates.

But the great and leading observation, relative to these establishments, remains to be made.
It is, that the owners of the soil and of the capital seldom consider themselves at home in
the colony. A very great portion of the soil itself is usually owned in the mother country;
a still greater is mortgaged for capital obtained there; and, in general, those who are to
derive an interest from the products look to the parent country as the place for enjoyment
of their wealth. The population is therefore constantly fluctuating. Nobody comes but to return.
A constant succession of owners, agents, and factors takes place. Whatsoever the soil, forced
by the unmitigated toil of slavery, can yield, is sent home to defray rents, and interest,
and agencies, or to give the means of living in a better society. In such a state, it is evident
that no spirit of permanent improvement is likely to spring up. Profits will not be invested
with a distant view of benefiting posterity. Roads and canals will hardly be built; schools
will not be founded; colleges will not be endowed. There will be few fixtures in society; no
principles of utility or of elegance, planted now, with the hope of being developed and expanded
hereafter. Profit, immediate profit, must be the principal active spring in the social system.
There may be many particular exceptions to these general remarks, but the outline of the whole
is such as is here drawn.[7]

Another most important consequence of such a state of things is, that no idea of independence
of the parent country is likely to arise; unless, indeed, it should spring up in a form that
would threaten universal desolation. The inhabitants have no strong attachment to the place
which they inhabit. The hope of a great portion of them is to leave it; and their great desire,
to leave it soon. However useful they may be to the parent state, how much soever they may
add to the conveniences and luxuries of life, these colonies are not favored spots for the
expansion of the human mind, for the progress of permanent improvement, or for sowing the seeds
of future independent empire.

Different, indeed, most widely different, from all these instances, of emigration and plantation,
were the condition, the purposes, and the prospects of our fathers, when they established their
infant colony upon this spot. They came hither to a land from which they were never to return.
Hither they had brought, and here they were to fix, their hopes, their attachments, and their
objects in life. Some natural tears they shed, as they left the pleasant abodes of their fathers,
and some emotions they suppressed, when the white cliffs of their native country, now seen
for the last time, grew dim to their sight. They were acting, however, upon a resolution not
to be daunted. With whatever stifled regrets, with whatever occasional hesitation, with whatever
appalling apprehensions, which might sometimes arise with force to shake the firmest purpose,
they had yet committed themselves to Heaven and the elements; and a thousand leagues of water
soon interposed to separate them for ever from the region which gave them birth. A new existence
awaited them here; and when they saw these shores, rough, cold, barbarous, and barren, as then
they were, they beheld their country. That mixed and strong feeling, which we call love of
country, and which is, in general, never extinguished in the heart of man, grasped and embraced
its proper object here. Whatever constitutes country, except the earth and the sun, all the
moral causes of affection and attachment which operate upon the heart, they had brought with
them to their new abode. Here were now their families and friends, their homes, and their property.
Before they reached the shore, they had established the elements of a social system,[8] and
at a much earlier period had settled their forms of religious worship. At the moment of their
landing, therefore, they possessed institutions of government, and institutions of religion:
and friends and families, and social and religious institutions, framed by consent, founded
on choice and preference, how nearly do these fill up our whole idea of country! The morning
that beamed on the first night of their repose saw the Pilgrims already at home in their country.
There were political institutions, and civil liberty, and religious worship. Poetry has fancied
nothing, in the wanderings of heroes, so distinct and characteristic. Here was man, indeed,
unprotected, and unprovided for, on the shore of a rude and fearful wilderness; but it was
politic, intelligent, and educated man. Every thing was civilized but the physical world. Institutions,
containing in substance all that ages had done for human government, were organized in a forest.[9]
Cultivated mind was to act on uncultivated nature; and, more than all, a government and a country
were to commence, with the very first foundations laid under the divine light of the Christian
religion. Happy auspices of a happy futurity! Who would wish that his country's existence had
otherwise begun? Who would desire the power of going back to the ages of fable? Who would wish
for an origin obscured in the darkness of antiquity? Who would wish for other emblazoning of
his country's heraldry, or other ornaments of her genealogy, than to be able to say, that her
first existence was with intelligence, her first breath the inspiration of liberty, her first
principle the truth of divine religion?

Local attachments and sympathies would ere long spring up in the breasts of our ancestors,
endearing to them the place of their refuge. Whatever natural objects are associated with interesting
scenes and high efforts obtain a hold on human feeling, and demand from the heart a sort of
recognition and regard. This Rock soon became hallowed in the esteem of the Pilgrims, and these
hills grateful to their sight. Neither they nor their children were again to till the soil
of England, nor again to traverse the seas which surround her. But here was a new sea, now
open to their enterprise, and a new soil, which had not failed to respond gratefully to their
laborious industry, and which was already assuming a robe of verdure. Hardly had they provided
shelter for the living, ere they were summoned to erect sepulchres for the dead. The ground
had become sacred, by enclosing the remains of some of their companions and connections. A
parent, a child, a husband, or a wife, had gone the way of all flesh, and mingled with the
dust of New England. We naturally look with strong emotions to the spot, though it be a wilderness,
where the ashes of those we have loved repose. Where the heart has laid down what it loved
most, there it is desirous of laying itself down. No sculptured marble, no enduring monument,
no honorable inscription, no ever-burning taper that would drive away the darkness of the tomb,
can soften our sense of the reality of death, and hallow to our feelings the ground which is
to cover us, like the consciousness that we shall sleep, dust to dust, with the objects of
our affections.

In a short time other causes sprung up to bind the Pilgrims with new cords to their chosen
land. Children were born, and the hopes of future generations arose, in the spot of their new
habitation. The second generation found this the land of their nativity, and saw that they
were bound to its fortunes. They beheld their fathers' graves around them, and while they read
the memorials of their toils and labors, they rejoiced in the inheritance which they found
bequeathed to them.

Under the influence of these causes, it was to be expected that an interest and a feeling should
arise here, entirely different from the interest and feeling of mere Englishmen; and all the
subsequent history of the Colonies proves this to have actually and gradually taken place.
With a general acknowledgment of the supremacy of the British crown, there was, from the first,
a repugnance to an entire submission to the control of British legislation. The Colonies stood
upon their charters, which, as they contended, exempted them from the ordinary power of the
British Parliament, and authorized them to conduct their own concerns by their own counsels.
They utterly resisted the notion that they were to be ruled by the mere authority of the government
at home, and would not endure even that their own charter governments should be established
on the other side of the Atlantic. It was not a controlling or protecting board in England,
but a government of their own, and existing immediately within their limits, which could satisfy
their wishes. It was easy to foresee, what we know also to have happened, that the first great
cause of collision and jealousy would be, under the notion of political economy then and still
prevalent in Europe, an attempt on the part of the mother country to monopolize the trade of
the Colonies. Whoever has looked deeply into the causes which produced our Revolution has found,
if I mistake not, the original principle far back in this claim, on the part of England, to
monopolize our trade, and a continued effort on the part of the Colonies to resist or evade
that monopoly; if, indeed, it be not still more just and philosophical to go farther back,
and to consider it decided, that an independent government must arise here, the moment it was
ascertained that an English colony, such as landed in this place, could sustain itself against
the dangers which surrounded it, and, with other similar establishments, overspread the land
with an English population. Accidental causes retarded at times, and at times accelerated,
the progress of the controversy. The Colonies wanted strength, and time gave it to them. They
required measures of strong and palpable injustice, on the part of the mother country, to justify
resistance; the early part of the late king's reign furnished them. They needed spirits of
high order, of great daring, of long foresight, and of commanding power, to seize the favoring
occasion to strike a blow, which should sever, for all time, the tie of colonial dependence;
and these spirits were found, in all the extent which that or any crisis could demand, in Otis,
Adams, Hancock, and the other immediate authors of our independence.

Still, it is true that, for a century, causes had been in operation tending to prepare things
for this great result. In the year 1660 the English Act of Navigation was passed; the first
and grand object of which seems to have been, to secure to England the whole trade with her
plantations. It was provided by that act, that none but English ships should transport American
produce over the ocean, and that the principal articles of that produce should be allowed to
be sold only in the markets of the mother country. Three years afterwards another law was passed,
which enacted, that such commodities as the Colonies might wish to purchase should be bought
only in the markets of the mother country. Severe rules were prescribed to enforce the provisions
of these laws, and heavy penalties imposed on all who should violate them. In the subsequent
years of the same reign, other statutes were enacted to re-enforce these statutes, and other
rules prescribed to secure a compliance with these rules. In this manner was the trade to and
from the Colonies restricted, almost to the exclusive advantage of the parent country. But
laws, which rendered the interest of a whole people subordinate to that of another people,
were not likely to execute themselves; nor was it easy to find many on the spot, who could
be depended upon for carrying them into execution. In fact, these laws were more or less evaded
or resisted, in all the Colonies. To enforce them was the constant endeavor of the government
at home; to prevent or elude their operation, the perpetual object here. "The laws of navigation,"
says a living British writer, "were nowhere so openly disobeyed and contemned as in New England."
"The people of Massachusetts Bay," he adds, "were from the first disposed to act as if independent
of the mother country, and having a governor and magistrates of their own choice, it was difficult
to enforce any regulation which came from the English Parliament, adverse to their interests."
To provide more effectually for the execution of these laws, we know that courts of admiralty
were afterwards established by the crown, with power to try revenue causes, as questions of
admiralty, upon the construction given by the crown lawyers to an act of Parliament; a great
departure from the ordinary principles of English jurisprudence, but which has been maintained,
nevertheless, by the force of habit and precedent, and is adopted in our own existing systems
of government.

"There lie," says another English writer, whose connection with the Board of Trade has enabled
him to ascertain many facts connected with Colonial history, "There lie among the documents
in the board of trade and state- paper office, the most satisfactory proofs, from the epoch
of the English Revolution in 1688, throughout every reign, and during every administration,
of the settled purpose of the Colonies to acquire direct independence and positive sovereignty."
Perhaps this may be stated somewhat too strongly; but it cannot be denied, that, from the very
nature of the establishments here, and from the general character of the measures respecting
their concerns early adopted and steadily pursued by the English government, a division of
the empire was the natural and necessary result to which every thing tended.

I have dwelt on this topic, because it seems to me, that the peculiar original character of
the New England Colonies, and certain causes coeval with their existence, have had a strong
and decided influence on all their subsequent history, and especially on the great event of
the Revolution. Whoever would write our history, and would understand and explain early transactions,
should comprehend the nature and force of the feeling which I have endeavored to describe.
As a son, leaving the house of his father for his own, finds, by the order of nature, and the
very law of his being, nearer and dearer objects around which his affections circle, while
his attachment to the parental roof becomes moderated, by degrees, to a composed regard and
an affectionate remembrance; so our ancestors, leaving their native land, not without some
violence to the feelings of nature and affection, yet, in time, found here a new circle of
engagements, interests, and affections; a feeling, which more and more encroached upon the
old, till an undivided sentiment, that this was their country, occupied the heart; and patriotism,
shutting out from its embraces the parent realm, became local to America. Some retrospect of
the century which has now elapsed is among the duties of the occasion. It must, however, necessarily
be imperfect, to be compressed within the limits of a single discourse. I shall content myself,
therefore, with taking notice of a few of the leading and most important occurrences which
have distinguished the period.

When the first century closed, the progress of the country appeared to have been considerable;
notwithstanding that, in comparison with its subsequent advancement, it now seems otherwise.
A broad and lasting foundation had been laid; excellent institutions had been established;
many of the prejudices of former times had been removed; a more liberal and catholic spirit
on subjects of religious concern had begun to extend itself, and many things conspired to give
promise of increasing future prosperity. Great men had arisen in public life, and the liberal
professions. The Mathers, father and son, were then sinking low in the western horizon; Leverett,
the learned, the accomplished, the excellent Leverett, was about to withdraw his brilliant
and useful light. In Pemberton great hopes had been suddenly extinguished, but Prince and Colman
were in our sky; and along the east had begun to flash the crepuscular light of a great luminary
which was about to appear, and which was to stamp the age with his own name, as the age of
Franklin.

The bloody Indian wars, which harassed the people for a part of the first century; the restrictions
on the trade of the Colonies, added to the discouragements inherently belonging to all forms
of colonial government; the distance from Europe, and the small hope of immediate profit to
adventurers, are among the causes which had contributed to retard the progress of population.
Perhaps it may be added, also, that during the period of the civil wars in England, and the
reign of Cromwell, many persons, whose religious opinions and religious temper might, under
other circumstances, have induced them to join the New England colonists, found reasons to
remain in England; either on account of active occupation in the scenes which were passing,
or of an anticipation of the enjoyment, in their own country, of a form of government, civil
and religious, accommodated to their views and principles. The violent measures, too, pursued
against the Colonies in the reign of Charles the Second, the mockery of a trial, and the forfeiture
of the charters, were serious evils. And during the open violences of the short reign of James
the Second, and the tyranny of Andros, as the venerable historian of Connecticut observes,
"All the motives to great actions, to industry, economy, enterprise, wealth, and population,
were in a manner annihilated. A general inactivity and languishment pervaded the public body.
Liberty, property, and every thing which ought to be dear to men, every day grew more and more
insecure."  With the Revolution in England, a better prospect had opened on this country, as
well as on that. The joy had been as great at that event, and far more universal, in New than
in Old England. A new charter had been granted to Massachusetts, which, although it did not
confirm to her inhabitants all their former privileges, yet relieved them from great evils
and embarrassments, and promised future security. More than all, perhaps, the Revolution in
England had done good to the general cause of liberty and justice. A blow had been struck in
favor of the rights and liberties, not of England alone, but of descendants and kinsmen of
England all over the world. Great political truths had been established the champions of liberty
had been successful in a fearful and perilous conflict. Somers, and Cavendish, and Jekyl, and
Howard, had triumphed in one of the most noble causes ever undertaken by men. A revolution
had been made upon principle. A monarch had been dethroned for violating the original compact
between king and people. The rights of the people to partake in the government, and to limit
the monarch by fundamental rules of government, had been maintained; and however unjust the
government of England might afterwards be towards other governments or towards her colonies,
she had ceased to be governed herself by the arbitrary maxims of the Stuarts.

New England had submitted to the violence of James the Second not longer than Old England.
Not only was it reserved to Massachusetts, that on her soil should be acted the first scene
of that great revolutionary drama, which was to take place near a century afterwards, but the
English Revolution itself, as far as the Colonies were concerned, commenced in Boston. The
seizure and imprisonment of Andros, in April, 1689, were acts of direct and forcible resistance
to the authority of James the Second. The pulse of liberty beat as high in the extremities
as at the heart. The vigorous feeling of the Colony burst out before it was known how the parent
country would finally conduct herself. The king's representative, Sir Edmund Andros, was a
prisoner in the castle at Boston, before it was or could be known that the king himself had
ceased to exercise his full dominion on the English throne.

Before it was known here whether the invasion of the Prince of Orange would or could prove
successful, as soon as it was known that it had been undertaken, the people of Massachusetts,
at the imminent hazard of their lives and fortunes, had accomplished the Revolution as far
as respected themselves. It is probable that, reasoning on general principles and the known
attachment of the English people to their constitution and liberties, and their deep and fixed
dislike of the king's religion and politics, the people of New England expected a catastrophe
fatal to the power of the reigning prince. Yet it was neither certain enough, nor near enough,
to come to their aid against the authority of the crown, in that crisis which had arrived,
and in which they trusted to put themselves, relying on God and their own courage. There were
spirits in Massachusetts congenial with the spirits of the distinguished friends of the Revolution
in England. There were those who were fit to associate with the boldest asserters of civil
liberty; and Mather himself, then in England, was not unworthy to be ranked with those sons
of the Church, whose firmness and spirit in resisting kingly encroachments in matters of religion,
entitled them to the gratitude of their own and succeeding ages.

The second century opened upon New England under circumstances which evinced that much had
already been accomplished, and that still better prospects and brighter hopes were before her.
She had laid, deep and strong, the foundations of her society. Her religious principles were
firm, and her moral habits exemplary. Her public schools had begun to diffuse widely the elements
of knowledge; and the College, under the excellent and acceptable administration of Leverett,
had been raised to a high degree of credit and usefulness.

The commercial character of the country, notwithstanding all discouragements, had begun to
display itself, and five hundred vessels, then belonging to Massachusetts, placed her, in relation
to commerce, thus early at the head of the Colonies. An author who wrote very near the close
of the first century says:--"New England is almost deserving that noble name, so mightily hath
it increased; and from a small settlement at first, is now become a very populous and flourishing
government. The capital city, Boston, is a place of great wealth and trade; and by much the
largest of any in the English empire of America; and not exceeded but by few cities, perhaps
two or three, in all the American world." But if our ancestors at the close of the first century
could look back with joy and even admiration, at the progress of the country, what emotions
must we not feel, when, from the point on which we stand, we also look back and run along the
events of the century which has now closed! The country which then, as we have seen, was thought
deserving of a "noble name,"--which then had "mightily increased," and become "very populous,"--what
was it, in comparison with what our eyes behold it? At that period, a very great proportion
of its inhabitants lived in the eastern section of Massachusetts proper, and in Plymouth Colony.
In Connecticut, there were towns along the coast, some of them respectable, but in the interior
all was a wilderness beyond Hartford. On Connecticut River, settlements had proceeded as far
up as Deerfield, and Fort Dummer had been built near where is now the south line of New Hampshire.
In New Hampshire no settlement was then begun thirty miles from the mouth of Piscataqua River,
and in what is now Maine the inhabitants were confined to the coast. The aggregate of the whole
population of New England did not exceed one hundred and sixty thousand. Its present amount
(1820) is probably one million seven hundred thousand. Instead of being confined to its former
limits, her population has rolled backward, and filled up the spaces included within her actual
local boundaries. Not this only, but it has overflowed those boundaries, and the waves of emigration
have pressed farther and farther toward the West. The Alleghany has not checked it; the banks
of the Ohio have been covered with it. New England farms, houses, villages, and churches spread
over and adorn the immense extent from the Ohio to Lake Erie, and stretch along from the Alleghany
onwards, beyond the Miamis, and towards the Falls of St. Anthony. Two thousand miles westward
from the rock where their fathers landed, may now be found the sons of the Pilgrims, cultivating
smiling fields, rearing towns and villages, and cherishing, we trust, the patrimonial blessings
of wise institutions, of liberty, and religion. The world has seen nothing like this. Regions
large enough to be empires, and which, half a century ago, were known only as remote and unexplored
wildernesses, are now teeming with population, and prosperous in all the great concerns of
life; in good governments, the means of subsistence, and social happiness. It may be safely
asserted, that there are now more than a million of people, descendants of New England ancestry,
living, free and happy, in regions which scarce sixty years ago were tracts of unpenetrated
forest. Nor do rivers, or mountains, or seas resist the progress of industry and enterprise.
Erelong, the sons of the Pilgrims will be on the shores of the Pacific. The imagination hardly
keeps pace with the progress of population, improvement, and civilization.

It is now five-and-forty years since the growth and rising glory of America were portrayed
in the English Parliament, with inimitable beauty, by the most consummate orator of modern
times. Going back somewhat more than half a century, and describing our progress as foreseen
from that point by his amiable friend Lord Bathurst, then living, he spoke of the wonderful
progress which America had made during the period of a single human life. There is no American
heart, I imagine, that does not glow, both with conscious, patriotic pride, and admiration
for one of the happiest efforts of eloquence, so often as the vision of "that little speck,
scarce visible in the mass of national interest, a small seminal principle, rather than a formed
body," and the progress of its astonishing development and growth, are recalled to the recollection.
But a stronger feeling might be produced, if we were able to take up this prophetic description
where he left it, and, placing ourselves at the point of time in which he was speaking, to
set forth with equal felicity the subsequent progress of the country. There is yet among the
living a most distinguished and venerable name, a descendant of the Pilgrims; one who has been
attended through life by a great and fortunate genius; a man illustrious by his own great merits,
and favored of Heaven in the long continuation of his years. The time when the English orator
was thus speaking of America preceded but by a few days the actual opening of the revolutionary
drama at Lexington. He to whom I have alluded, then at the age of forty, was among the most
zealous and able defenders of the violated rights of his country. He seemed already to have
filled a full measure of public service, and attained an honorable fame. The moment was full
of difficulty and danger, and big with events of immeasurable importance. The country was on
the very brink of a civil war, of which no man could foretell the duration or the result. Something
more than a courageous hope, or characteristic ardor, would have been necessary to impress
the glorious prospect on his belief, if, at that moment, before the sound of the first shock
of actual war had reached his ears, some attendant spirit had opened to him the vision of the
future;--if it had said to him, "The blow is struck, and America is severed from England for
ever!"--if it had informed him, that he himself, during the next annual revolution of the sun,
should put his own hand to the great instrument of independence, and write his name where all
nations should behold it and all time should not efface it; that erelong he himself should
maintain the interests and represent the sovereignty of his new-born country in the proudest
courts of Europe; that he should one day exercise her supreme magistracy; that he should yet
live to behold ten millions of fellow- citizens paying him the homage of their deepest gratitude
and kindest affections; that he should see distinguished talent and high public trust resting
where his name rested; that he should even see with his own unclouded eyes the close of the
second century of New England, who had begun life almost with its commencement, and lived through
nearly half the whole history of his country; and that on the morning of this auspicious day
he should be found in the political councils of his native State, revising, by the light of
experience, that system of government which forty years before he had assisted to frame and
establish; and, great and happy as he should then behold his country, there should be nothing
in prospect to cloud the scene, nothing to check the ardor of that confident and patriotic
hope which should glow in his bosom to the end of his long protracted and happy life.

It would far exceed the limits of this discourse even to mention the principal events in the
civil and political history of New England during the century; the more so, as for the last
half of the period that history has, most happily, been closely interwoven with the general
history of the United States. New England bore an honorable part in the wars which took place
between England and France. The capture of Louisburg gave her a character for military achievement;
and in the war which terminated with the peace of 1763, her exertions on the frontiers were
of most essential service, as well to the mother country as to all the Colonies.

In New England the war of the Revolution commenced. I address those who remember the memorable
19th of April, 1775; who shortly after saw the burning spires of Charlestown; who beheld the
deeds of Prescott, and heard the voice of Putnam amidst the storm of war, and saw the generous
Warren fall, the first distinguished victim in the cause of liberty. It would be superfluous
to say, that no portion of the country did more than the States of New England to bring the
Revolutionary struggle to a successful issue. It is scarcely less to her credit, that she saw
early the necessity of a closer union of the States, and gave an efficient and indispensable
aid to the establishment and organization of the Federal government.

Perhaps we might safely say, that a new spirit and a new excitement began to exist here about
the middle of the last century. To whatever causes it may be imputed, there seems then to have
commenced a more rapid improvement. The Colonies had attracted more of the attention of the
mother country, and some renown in arms had been acquired. Lord Chatham was the first English
minister who attached high importance to these possessions of the crown, and who foresaw any
thing of their future growth and extension. His opinion was, that the great rival of England
was chiefly to be feared as a maritime and commercial power, and to drive her out of North
America and deprive her of her West Indian possessions was a leading object in his policy.
He dwelt often on the fisheries, as nurseries for British seamen, and the colonial trade, as
furnishing them employment. The war, conducted by him with so much vigor, terminated in a peace,
by which Canada was ceded to England. The effect of this was immediately visible in the New
England Colonies; for, the fear of Indian hostilities on the frontiers being now happily removed,
settlements went on with an activity before that time altogether unprecedented, and public
affairs wore a new and encouraging aspect. Shortly after this fortunate termination of the
French war, the interesting topics connected with the taxation of America by the British Parliament
began to be discussed, and the attention and all the faculties of the people drawn towards
them. There is perhaps no portion of our history more full of interest than the period from
1760 to the actual commencement of the war. The progress of opinion in this period, though
less known, is not less important than the progress of arms afterwards. Nothing deserves more
consideration than those events and discussions which affected the public sentiment and settled
the Revolution in men's minds, before hostilities openly broke out.

Internal improvement followed the establishment and prosperous commencement of the present
government. More has been done for roads, canals, and other public works, within the last thirty
years, than in all our former history. In the first of these particulars, few countries excel
the New England States. The astonishing increase of their navigation and trade is known to
every one, and now belongs to the history of our national wealth.

We may flatter ourselves, too, that literature and taste have not been stationary, and that
some advancement has been made in the elegant, as well as in the useful arts.

The nature and constitution of society and government in this country are interesting topics,
to which I would devote what remains of the time allowed to this occasion. Of our system of
government the first thing to be said is, that it is really and practically a free system.
It originates entirely with the people, and rests on no other foundation than their assent.
To judge of its actual operation, it is not enough to look merely at the form of its construction.
The practical character of government depends often on a variety of considerations, besides
the abstract frame of its constitutional organization. Among these are the condition and tenure
of property; the laws regulating its alienation and descent; the presence or absence of a military
power; an armed or unarmed yeomanry; the spirit of the age, and the degree of general intelligence.
In these respects it cannot be denied that the circumstances of this country are most favorable
to the hope of maintaining the government of a great nation on principles entirely popular.
In the absence of military power, the nature of government must essentially depend on the manner
in which property is holden and distributed. There is a natural influence belonging to property,
whether it exists in many hands or few; and it is on the rights of property that both despotism
and unrestrained popular violence ordinarily commence their attacks. Our ancestors began their
system of government here under a condition of comparative equality in regard to wealth, and
their early laws were of a nature to favor and continue this equality.

A republican form of government rests not more on political constitutions, than on those laws
which regulate the descent and transmission of property. Governments like ours could not have
been maintained, where property was holden according to the principles of the feudal system;
nor, on the other hand, could the feudal constitution possibly exist with us. Our New England
ancestors brought hither no great capitals from Europe; and if they had, there was nothing
productive in which they could have been invested. They left behind them the whole feudal policy
of the other continent. They broke away at once from the system of military service established
in the Dark Ages, and which continues, down even to the present time, more or less to affect
the condition of property all over Europe. They came to a new country. There were, as yet,
no lands yielding rent, and no tenants rendering service. The whole soil was unreclaimed from
barbarism. They were themselves, either from their original condition, or from the necessity
of their common interest, nearly on a general level in respect to property. Their situation
demanded a parcelling out and division of the lands, and it may be fairly said, that this necessary
act fixed the future frame and form of their government. The character of their political institutions
was determined by the fundamental laws respecting property. The laws rendered estates divisible
among sons and daughters. The right of primogeniture, at first limited and curtailed, was afterwards
abolished. The property was all freehold. The entailment of estates, long trusts, and the other
processes for fettering and tying up inheritances, were not applicable to the condition of
society, and seldom made use of. On the contrary, alienation of the land was every way facilitated,
even to the subjecting of it to every species of debt. The establishment of public registries,
and the simplicity of our forms of conveyance, have greatly facilitated the change of real
estate from one proprietor to another. The consequence of all these causes has been a great
subdivision of the soil, and a great equality of condition; the true basis, most certainly,
of a popular government. "If the people," says Harrington, "hold three parts in four of the
territory, it is plain there can neither be any single person nor nobility able to dispute
the government with them; in this case, therefore, except force be interposed, they govern
themselves."

The history of other nations may teach us how favorable to public liberty are the division
of the soil into small freeholds, and a system of laws, of which the tendency is, without violence
or injustice, to produce and to preserve a degree of equality of property. It has been estimated,
if I mistake not, that about the time of Henry the Seventh four fifths of the land in England
was holden by the great barons and ecclesiastics. The effects of a growing commerce soon afterwards
began to break in on this state of things, and before the Revolution, in 1688, a vast change
had been wrought. It may be thought probable, that, for the last half-century, the process
of subdivision in England has been retarded, if not reversed; that the great weight of taxation
has compelled many of the lesser freeholders to dispose of their estates, and to seek employment
in the army and navy, in the professions of civil life, in commerce, or in the colonies. The
effect of this on the British constitution cannot but be most unfavorable. A few large estates
grow larger; but the number of those who have no estates also increases; and there may be danger,
lest the inequality of property become so great, that those who possess it may be dispossessed
by force; in other words, that the government may be overturned.

A most interesting experiment of the effect of a subdivision of property on government is now
making in France. It is understood, that the law regulating the transmission of property in
that country, now divides it, real and personal, among all the children equally, both sons
and daughters; and that there is, also, a very great restraint on the power of making dispositions
of property by will. It has been supposed, that the effects of this might probably be, in time,
to break up the soil into such small subdivisions, that the proprietors would be too poor to
resist the encroachments of executive power. I think far otherwise. What is lost in individual
wealth will be more than gained in numbers, in intelligence, and in a sympathy of sentiment.
If, indeed, only one or a few landholders were to resist the crown, like the barons of England,
they must, of course, be great and powerful landholders, with multitudes of retainers, to promise
success. But if the proprietors of a given extent of territory are summoned to resistance,
there is no reason to believe that such resistance would be less forcible, or less successful,
because the number of such proprietors happened to be great. Each would perceive his own importance,
and his own interest, and would feel that natural elevation of character which the consciousness
of property inspires. A common sentiment would unite all, and numbers would not only add strength,
but excite enthusiasm. It is true, that France possesses a vast military force, under the direction
of an hereditary executive government; and military power, it is possible, may overthrow any
government. It is in vain, however, in this period of the world, to look for security against
military power to the arm of the great landholders. That notion is derived from a state of
things long since past; a state in which a feudal baron, with his retainers, might stand against
the sovereign and his retainers, himself but the greatest baron. But at present, what could
the richest landholder do, against one regiment of disciplined troops? Other securities, therefore,
against the prevalence of military power must be provided. Happily for us, we are not so situated
as that any purpose of national defence requires, ordinarily and constantly, such a military
force as might seriously endanger our liberties.

In respect, however, to the recent law of succession in France, to which I have alluded, I
would, presumptuously perhaps, hazard a conjecture, that, if the government do not change the
law, the law in half a century will change the government; and that this change will be, not
in favor of the power of the crown, as some European writers have supposed, but against it.
Those writers only reason upon what they think correct general principles, in relation to this
subject. They acknowledge a want of experience. Here we have had that experience; and we know
that a multitude of small proprietors, acting with intelligence, and that enthusiasm which
a common cause inspires, constitute not only a formidable, but an invincible power.

The true principle of a free and popular government would seem to be, so to construct it as
to give to all, or at least to a very great majority, an interest in its preservation; to found
it, as other things are founded, on men's interest. The stability of government demands that
those who desire its continuance should be more powerful than those who desire its dissolution.
This power, of course, is not always to be measured by mere numbers. Education, wealth, talents,
are all parts and elements of the general aggregate of power; but numbers, nevertheless, constitute
ordinarily the most important consideration, unless, indeed, there be a military force in the
hands of the few, by which they can control the many. In this country we have actually existing
systems of government, in the maintenance of which, it should seem, a great majority, both
in numbers and in other means of power and influence, must see their interest. But this state
of things is not brought about solely by written political constitutions, or the mere manner
of organizing the government; but also by the laws which regulate the descent and transmission
of property. The freest government, if it could exist, would not be long acceptable, if the
tendency of the laws were to create a rapid accumulation of property in few hands, and to render
the great mass of the population dependent and penniless. In such a case, the popular power
would be likely to break in upon the rights of property, or else the influence of property
to limit and control the exercise of popular power. Universal suffrage, for example, could
not long exist in a community where there was great inequality of property. The holders of
estates would be obliged, in such case, in some way to restrain the right of suffrage, or else
such right of suffrage would, before long, divide the property. In the nature of things, those
who have not property, and see their neighbors possess much more than they think them to need,
cannot be favorable to laws made for the protection of property. When this class becomes numerous,
it grows clamorous. It looks on property as its prey and plunder, and is naturally ready, at
all times, for violence and revolution.

It would seem, then, to be the part of political wisdom to found government on property; and
to establish such distribution of property, by the laws which regulate its transmission and
alienation, as to interest the great majority of society in the support of the government.
This is, I imagine, the true theory and the actual practice of our republican institutions.
With property divided as we have it, no other government than that of a republic could be maintained,
even were we foolish enough to desire it. There is reason, therefore, to expect a long continuance
of our system. Party and passion, doubtless, may prevail at times, and much temporary mischief
be done. Even modes and forms may be changed, and perhaps for the worse. But a great revolution
in regard to property must take place, before our governments can be moved from their republican
basis, unless they be violently struck off by military power. The people possess the property,
more emphatically than it could ever be said of the people of any other country, and they can
have no interest to overturn a government which protects that property by equal laws.

Let it not be supposed, that this state of things possesses too strong tendencies towards the
production of a dead and uninteresting level in society. Such tendencies are sufficiently counteracted
by the infinite diversities in the characters and fortunes of individuals. Talent, activity,
industry, and enterprise tend at all times to produce inequality and distinction; and there
is room still for the accumulation of wealth, with its great advantages, to all reasonable
and useful extent. It has been often urged against the state of society in America, that it
furnishes no class of men of fortune and leisure. This may be partly true, but it is not entirely
so, and the evil, if it be one, would affect rather the progress of taste and literature, than
the general prosperity of the people. But the promotion of taste and literature cannot be primary
objects of political institutions; and if they could, it might be doubted whether, in the long
course of things, as much is not gained by a wide diffusion of general knowledge, as is lost
by diminishing the number of those who are enabled by fortune and leisure to devote themselves
exclusively to scientific and literary pursuits. However this may be, it is to be considered
that it is the spirit of our system to be equal and general, and if there be particular disadvantages
incident to this, they are far more than counterbalanced by the benefits which weigh against
them. The important concerns of society are generally conducted, in all countries, by the men
of business and practical ability; and even in matters of taste and literature, the advantages
of mere leisure are liable to be overrated. If there exist adequate means of education and
a love of letters be excited, that love will find its way to the object of its desire, through
the crowd and pressure of the most busy society.

Connected with this division of property, and the consequent participation of the great mass
of people in its possession and enjoyments, is the system of representation, which is admirably
accommodated to our condition, better understood among us, and more familiarly and extensively
practised, in the higher and in the lower departments of government, than it has been by any
other people. Great facility has been given to this in New England by the early division of
the country into townships or small districts, in which all concerns of local police are regulated,
and in which representatives to the legislature are elected. Nothing can exceed the utility
of these little bodies. They are so many councils or parliaments, in which common interests
are discussed, and useful knowledge acquired and communicated. The division of governments
into departments, and the division, again, of the legislative department into two chambers,
are essential provisions in our system. This last, although not new in itself, yet seems to
be new in its application to governments wholly popular. The Grecian republics, it is plain,
knew nothing of it; and in Rome, the check and balance of legislative power, such as it was,
lay between the people and the senate. Indeed, few things are more difficult than to ascertain
accurately the true nature and construction of the Roman commonwealth. The relative power of
the senate and the people, of the consuls and the tribunes, appears not to have been at all
times the same, nor at any time accurately defined or strictly observed. Cicero, indeed, describes
to us an admirable arrangement of political power, and a balance of the constitution, in that
beautiful passage, in which he compares the democracies of Greece with the Roman commonwealth.
"O morem preclarum, disciplinamque, quam a majoribus, accepimus, si quidem teneremus! sed nescio
quo pacto jam de manibus elabitur. Nullam enim illi nostri sapientissimi et sanctissimi viri
vim concionis esse voluerunt, quae scisseret plebs, aut quae populus juberet; summota concione,
distributis partibus, tributim et centuriatim descriptis ordinibus, classibus, aetatibus, auditis
auctoribus, re multos dies promulgata et cognita, juberi vetarique voluerunt. Graecorum autem
totae respublicae sedentis concionis temeritate administrantur." [10]

But at what time this wise system existed in this perfection at Rome, no proofs remain to show.
Her constitution, originally framed for a monarchy, never seemed to be adjusted in its several
parts after the expulsion of the kings. Liberty there was, but it was a disputatious, an uncertain,
an ill-secured liberty. The patrician and plebeian orders, instead of being matched and joined,
each in its just place and proportion, to sustain the fabric of the state, were rather like
hostile powers, in perpetual conflict. With us, an attempt has been made, and so far not without
success, to divide representation into chambers, and, by difference of age, character, qualification,
or mode of election, to establish salutary checks, in governments altogether elective.

Having detained you so long with these observations, I must yet advert to another most interesting
topic,--the Free Schools. In this particular, New England may be allowed to claim, I think,
a merit of a peculiar character. She early adopted, and has constantly maintained the principle,
that it is the undoubted right and the bounden duty of government to provide for the instruction
of all youth. That which is elsewhere left to chance or to charity, we secure by law. [11]
For the purpose of public instruction, we hold every man subject to taxation in proportion
to his property, and we look not to the question, whether he himself have, or have not, children
to be benefited by the education for which he pays. We regard it as a wise and liberal system
of police, by which property, and life, and the peace of society are secured. We seek to prevent
in some measure the extension of the penal code, by inspiring a salutary and conservative principle
of virtue and of knowledge in an early age. We strive to excite a feeling of respectability,
and a sense of character, by enlarging the capacity and increasing the sphere of intellectual
enjoyment. By general instruction, we seek, as far as possible, to purify the whole moral atmosphere;
to keep good sentiments uppermost, and to turn the strong current of feeling and opinion, as
well as the censures of the law and the denunciations of religion, against immorality and crime.
We hope for a security beyond the law, and above the law, in the prevalence of an enlightened
and well- principled moral sentiment. We hope to continue and prolong the time, when, in the
villages and farm-houses of New England, there may be undisturbed sleep within unbarred doors.
And knowing that our government rests directly on the public will, in order that we may preserve
it we endeavor to give a safe and proper direction to that public will. We do not, indeed,
expect all men to be philosophers or statesmen; but we confidently trust, and our expectation
of the duration of our system of government rests on that trust, that, by the diffusion of
general knowledge and good and virtuous sentiments, the political fabric may be secure, as
well against open violence and overthrow, as against the slow, but sure, undermining of licentiousness.

We know that, at the present time, an attempt is making in the English Parliament to provide
by law for the education of the poor, and that a gentleman of distinguished character (Mr.
Brougham) has taken the lead in presenting a plan to government for carrying that purpose into
effect. And yet, although the representatives of the three kingdoms listened to him with astonishment
as well as delight, we hear no principles with which we ourselves have not been familiar from
youth; we see nothing in the plan but an approach towards that system which has been established
in New England for more than a century and a half. It is said that in England not more than
one child in fifteen possesses the means of being taught to read and write; in Wales, one in
twenty; in France, until lately, when some improvement was made, not more than one in thirty-
five. Now, it is hardly too strong to say, that in New England every child possesses such means.
It would be difficult to find an instance to the contrary, unless where it should be owing
to the negligence of the parent; and, in truth, the means are actually used and enjoyed by
nearly every one. A youth of fifteen, of either sex, who cannot both read and write, is very
seldom to be found. Who can make this comparison, or contemplate this spectacle, without delight
and a feeling of just pride? Does any history show property more beneficently applied? Did
any government ever subject the property of those who have estates to a burden, for a purpose
more favorable to the poor, or more useful to the whole community?

A conviction of the importance of public instruction was one of the earliest sentiments of
our ancestors. No lawgiver of ancient or modern times has expressed more just opinions, or
adopted wiser measures, than the early records of the Colony of Plymouth show to have prevailed
here. Assembled on this very spot, a hundred and fifty-three years ago, the legislature of
this Colony declared, "Forasmuch as the maintenance of good literature doth much tend to the
advancement of the weal and flourishing state of societies and republics, this Court doth therefore
order, that in whatever township in this government, consisting of fifty families or upwards,
any meet man shall be obtained to teach a grammar school, such township shall allow at least
twelve pounds, to be raised by rate on all the inhabitants."

Having provided that all youth should be instructed in the elements of learning by the institution
of free schools, our ancestors had yet another duty to perform. Men were to be educated for
the professions and the public. For this purpose they founded the University, and with incredible
zeal and perseverance they cherished and supported it, through all trials and discouragements.[12]
On the subject of the University, it is not possible for a son of New England to think without
pleasure, or to speak without emotion. Nothing confers more honor on the State where it is
established, or more utility on the country at large. A respectable university is an establishment
which must be the work of time. If pecuniary means were not wanting, no new institution could
possess character and respectability at once. We owe deep obligation to our ancestors, who
began, almost on the moment of their arrival, the work of building up this institution.

Although established in a different government, the Colony of Plymouth manifested warm friendship
for Harvard College. At an early period, its government took measures to promote a general
subscription throughout all the towns in this Colony, in aid of its small funds. Other colleges
were subsequently founded and endowed, in other places, as the ability of the people allowed;
and we may flatter ourselves, that the means of education at present enjoyed in New England
are not only adequate to the diffusion of the elements of knowledge among all classes, but
sufficient also for respectable attainments in literature and the sciences.

Lastly, our ancestors established their system of government on morality and religious sentiment.
Moral habits, they believed, cannot safely be trusted on any other foundation than religious
principle, nor any government be secure which is not supported by moral habits. Living under
the heavenly light of revelation, they hoped to find all the social dispositions, all the duties
which men owe to each other and to society, enforced and performed. Whatever makes men good
Christians, makes them good citizens. Our fathers came here to enjoy their religion free and
unmolested; and, at the end of two centuries, there is nothing upon which we can pronounce
more confidently, nothing of which we can express a more deep and earnest conviction, than
of the inestimable importance of that religion to man, both in regard to this life and that
which is to come.

If the blessings of our political and social condition have not been too highly estimated,
we cannot well overrate the responsibility and duty which they impose upon us. We hold these
institutions of government, religion, and learning, to be transmitted, as well as enjoyed.
We are in the line of conveyance, through which whatever has been obtained by the spirit and
efforts of our ancestors is to be communicated to our children.

We are bound to maintain public liberty, and, by the example of our own systems, to convince
the world that order and law, religion and morality, the rights of conscience, the rights of
persons, and the rights of property, may all be preserved and secured, in the most perfect
manner, by a government entirely and purely elective. If we fail in this, our disaster will
be signal, and will furnish an argument, stronger than has yet been found, in support of those
opinions which maintain that government can rest safely on nothing but power and coercion.
As far as experience may show errors in our establishments, we are bound to correct them; and
if any practices exist contrary to the principles of justice and humanity within the reach
of our laws or our influence, we are inexcusable if we do not exert ourselves to restrain and
abolish them.

I deem it my duty on this occasion to suggest, that the land is not yet wholly free from the
contamination of a traffic, at which every feeling of humanity must forever revolt,--I mean
the African slave-trade. Neither public sentiment, nor the law, has hitherto been able entirely
to put an end to this odious and abominable trade. At the moment when God in his mercy has
blessed the Christian world with a universal peace, there is reason to fear, that, to the disgrace
of the Christian name and character, new efforts are making for the extension of this trade
by subjects and citizens of Christian states, in whose hearts there dwell no sentiments of
humanity or of justice, and over whom neither the fear of God nor the fear of man exercises
a control. In the sight of our law, the African slave- trader is a pirate and a felon; and
in the sight of Heaven, an offender far beyond the ordinary depth of human guilt. There is
no brighter page of our history, than that which records the measures which have been adopted
by the government at an early day, and at different times since, for the suppression of this
traffic; and I would call on all the true sons of New England to cooperate with the laws of
man, and the justice of Heaven. If there be, within the extent of our knowledge or influence,
any participation in this traffic, let us pledge ourselves here, upon the rock of Plymouth,
to extirpate and destroy it. It is not fit that the land of the Pilgrims should bear the shame
longer. I hear the sound of the hammer, I see the smoke of the furnaces where manacles and
fetters are still forged for human limbs. I see the visages of those who by stealth and at
midnight labor in this work of hell, foul and dark, as may become the artificers of such instruments
of misery and torture. Let that spot be purified, or let it cease to be of New England. Let
it be purified or let it be set aside from the Christian world; let it be put out of the circle
of human sympathies and human regards, and let civilized man henceforth have no communion with it.

I would invoke those who fill the seats of justice, and all who minister at her altar, that
they execute the wholesome and necessary severity of the law. I invoke the ministers of our
religion, that they proclaim its denunciation of these crimes, and add its solemn sanctions
to the authority of human laws. If the pulpit be silent whenever or wherever there may be a
sinner bloody with this guilt within the hearing of its voice, the pulpit is false to its trust.
I call on the fair merchant, who has reaped his harvest upon the seas, that he assist in scourging
from those seas the worst pirates that ever infested them. That ocean, which seems to wave
with a gentle magnificence to waft the burden of an honest commerce, and to roll along its
treasures with a conscious pride,--that ocean, which hardy industry regards, even when the
winds have ruffled its surface, as a field of grateful toil,--what is it to the victim of this
oppression, when he is brought to its shores, and looks forth upon it, for the first time,
loaded with chains, and bleeding with stripes? What is it to him but a wide-spread prospect
of suffering, anguish, and death? Nor do the skies smile longer, nor is the air longer fragrant
to him. The sun is cast down from heaven. An inhuman and accursed traffic has cut him off in
his manhood, or in his youth, from every enjoyment belonging to his being, and every blessing
which his Creator intended for him.

The Christian communities send forth their emissaries of religion and letters, who stop, here
and there, along the coast of the vast continent of Africa, and with painful and tedious efforts
make some almost imperceptible progress in the communication of knowledge, and in the general
improvement of the natives who are immediately about them. Not thus slow and imperceptible
is the transmission of the vices and bad passions which the subjects of Christian states carry
to the land. The slave-trade having touched the coast, its influence and its evils spread,
like a pestilence, over the whole continent, making savage wars more savage and more frequent,
and adding new and fierce passions to the contests of barbarians.

I pursue this topic no further, except again to say, that all Christendom, being now blessed
with peace, is bound by everything which belongs to its character, and to the character of
the present age, to put a stop to this inhuman and disgraceful traffic.

We are bound, not only to maintain the general principles of public liberty, but to support
also those existing forms of government which have so well secured its enjoyment, and so highly
promoted the public prosperity. It is now more than thirty years that these States have been
united under the Federal Constitution, and whatever fortune may await them hereafter, it is
impossible that this period of their history should not be regarded as distinguished by signal
prosperity and success. They must be sanguine indeed, who can hope for benefit from change.
Whatever division of the public judgment may have existed in relation to particular measures
of the government, all must agree, one should think, in the opinion, that in its general course
it has been eminently productive of public happiness. Its most ardent friends could not well
have hoped from it more than it has accomplished; and those who disbelieved or doubted ought
to feel less concern about predictions which the event has not verified, than pleasure in the
good which has been obtained. Whoever shall hereafter write this part of our history, although
he may see occasional errors or defects, will be able to record no great failure in the ends
and objects of government. Still less will he be able to record any series of lawless and despotic
acts, or any successful usurpation. His page will contain no exhibition of provinces depopulated,
of civil authority habitually trampled down by military power, or of a community crushed by
the burden of taxation. He will speak, rather, of public liberty protected, and public happiness
advanced; of increased revenue, and population augmented beyond all example; of the growth
of commerce, manufactures, and the arts; and of that happy condition, in which the restraint
and coercion of government are almost invisible and imperceptible, and its influence felt only
in the benefits which it confers. We can entertain no better wish for our country, than that
this government may be preserved; nor have a clearer duty than to maintain and support it in
the full exercise of all its just constitutional powers.

The cause of science and literature also imposes upon us an important and delicate trust. The
wealth and population of the country are now so far advanced, as to authorize the expectation
of a correct literature and a well formed taste, as well as respectable progress in the abstruse
sciences. The country has risen from a state of colonial subjection; it has established an
independent government, and is now in the undisturbed enjoyment of peace and political security.
The elements of knowledge are universally diffused, and the reading portion of the community
is large. Let us hope that the present may be an auspicious era of literature. If, almost on
the day of their landing, our ancestors founded schools and endowed colleges, what obligations
do not rest upon us, living under circumstances so much more favorable both for providing and
for using the means of education? Literature becomes free institutions. It is the graceful
ornament of civil liberty, and a happy restraint on the asperities which political controversies
sometimes occasion. Just taste is not only an embellishment of society, but it rises almost
to the rank of the virtues, and diffuses positive good throughout the whole extent of its influence.
There is a connection between right feeling and right principles, and truth in taste is allied
with truth in morality. With nothing in our past history to discourage us, and with something
in our present condition and prospects to animate us, let us hope, that, as it is our fortune
to live in an age when we may behold a wonderful advancement of the country in all its other
great interests, we may see also equal progress and success attend the cause of letters.

Finally, let us not forget the religious character of our origin. Our fathers were brought
hither by their high veneration for the Christian religion. They journeyed by its light, and
labored in its hope. They sought to incorporate its principles with the elements of their society,
and to diffuse its influence through all their institutions, civil, political, or literary.
Let us cherish these sentiments, and extend this influence still more widely; in the full conviction,
that that is the happiest society which partakes in the highest degree of the mild and peaceful
spirit of Christianity.

The hours of this day are rapidly flying, and this occasion will soon be passed. Neither we
nor our children can expect to behold its return. They are in the distant regions of futurity,
they exist only in the all- creating power of God, who shall stand here a hundred years hence,
to trace, through us, their descent from the Pilgrims, and to survey, as we have now surveyed,
the progress of their country, during the lapse of a century. We would anticipate their concurrence
with us in our sentiments of deep regard for our common ancestors. We would anticipate and
partake the pleasure with which they will then recount the steps of New England's advancement.
On the morning of that day, although it will not disturb us in our repose, the voice of acclamation
and gratitude, commencing on the Rock of Plymouth, shall be transmitted through millions of
the sons of the Pilgrims, till it lose itself in the murmurs of the Pacific seas.

We would leave for the consideration of those who shall then occupy our places, some proof
that we hold the blessings transmitted from our fathers in just estimation; some proof of our
attachment to the cause of good government, and of civil and religious liberty; some proof
of a sincere and ardent desire to promote every thing which may enlarge the understandings
and improve the hearts of men. And when, from the long distance of a hundred years, they shall
look back upon us, they shall know, at least, that we possessed affections, which, running
backward and warming with gratitude for what our ancestors have done for our happiness, run
forward also to our posterity, and meet them with cordial salutation, ere yet they have arrived
on the shore of being.

Advance, then, ye future generations! We would hail you, as you rise in your long succession,
to fill the places which we now fill, and to taste the blessings of existence where we are
passing, and soon shall have passed, our own human duration. We bid you welcome to this pleasant
land of the fathers. We bid you welcome to the healthful skies and the verdant fields of New
England. We greet your accession to the great inheritance which we have enjoyed. We welcome
you to the blessings of good government and religious liberty. We welcome you to the treasures
of science and the delights of learning. We welcome you to the transcendent sweets of domestic
life, to the happiness of kindred, and parents, and children. We welcome you to the immeasurable
blessings of rational existence, the immortal hope of Christianity, and the light of everlasting
truth!

THE BUNKER HILL MONUMENT.

This uncounted multitude before me and around me proves the feeling which the occasion has
excited. These thousands of human faces, glowing with sympathy and joy, and from the impulses
of a common gratitude turned reverently to heaven in this spacious temple of the firmament,
proclaim that the day, the place, and the purpose of our assembling have made a deep impression
on our hearts.

If, indeed, there be anything in local association fit to affect the mind of man, we need not
strive to repress the emotions which agitate us here. We are among the sepulchres of our fathers.
We are on ground, distinguished by their valor, their constancy, and the shedding of their
blood. We are here, not to fix an uncertain date in our annals, nor to draw into notice an
obscure and unknown spot. If our humble purpose had never been conceived, if we ourselves had
never been born, the 17th of June, 1775, would have been a day on which all subsequent history
would have poured its light, and the eminence where we stand a point of attraction to the eyes
of successive generations. But we are Americans. We live in what may be called the early age
of this great continent; and we know that our posterity, through all time, are here to enjoy
and suffer the allotments of humanity. We see before us a probable train of great events; we
know that our own fortunes have been happily cast; and it is natural, therefore, that we should
be moved by the contemplation of occurrences which have guided our destiny before many of us
were born, and settled the condition in which we should pass that portion of our existence
which God allows to men on earth.

We do not read even of the discovery of this continent, without feeling something of a personal
interest in the event; without being reminded how much it has affected our own fortunes and
our own existence. It would be still more unnatural for us, therefore, than for others, to
contemplate with unaffected minds that interesting, I may say that most touching and pathetic
scene, when the great discoverer of America stood on the deck of his shattered bark, the shades
of night falling on the sea, yet no man sleeping; tossed on the billows of an unknown ocean,
yet the stronger billows of alternate hope and despair tossing his own troubled thoughts; extending
forward his harassed frame, straining westward his anxious and eager eyes, till Heaven at last
granted him a moment of rapture and ecstasy, in blessing his vision with the sight of the unknown
world.

Nearer to our times, more closely connected with our fates, and therefore still more interesting
to our feelings and affections, is the settlement of our own country by colonists from England.
We cherish every memorial of these worthy ancestors; we celebrate their patience and fortitude;
we admire their daring enterprise; we teach our children to venerate their piety; and we are
justly proud of being descended from men who have set the world an example of founding civil
institutions on the great and united principles of human freedom and human knowledge. To us,
their children, the story of their labors and sufferings can never be without its interest.
We shall not stand unmoved on the shore of Plymouth, while the sea continues to wash it; nor
will our brethren in another early and ancient Colony forget the place of its first establishment,
till their river shall cease to flow by it. [1] No vigor of youth, no maturity of manhood,
will lead the nation to forget the spots where its infancy was cradled and defended.

But the great event in the history of the continent, which we are now met here to commemorate,
that prodigy of modern times, at once the wonder and the blessing of the world, is the American
Revolution. In a day of extraordinary prosperity and happiness, of high national honor, distinction,
and power, we are brought together, in this place, by our love of country, by our admiration
of exalted character, by our gratitude for signal services and patriotic devotion.

The Society whose organ I am [2] was formed for the purpose of rearing some honorable and durable
monument to the memory of the early friends of American Independence. They have thought, that
for this object no time could be more propitious than the present prosperous and peaceful period;
that no place could claim preference over this memorable spot; and that no day could be more
auspicious to the undertaking than the anniversary of the battle which was here fought. The
foundation of that monument we have now laid. With solemnities suited to the occasion, with
prayers to Almighty God for his blessing, and in the midst of this cloud of witnesses, we have
begun the work. We trust it will be prosecuted, and that, springing from a broad foundation,
rising high in massive solidity and unadorned grandeur, it may remain as long as Heaven permits
the works of men to last, a fit emblem, both of the events in memory of which it is raised,
and of the gratitude of those who have reared it.

We know, indeed, that the record of illustrious actions is most safely deposited in the universal
remembrance of mankind. We know, that if we could cause this structure to ascend, not only
till it reached the skies, but till it pierced them, its broad surfaces could still contain
but part of that which, in an age of knowledge, hath already been spread over the earth, and
which history charges itself with making known to all future times. We know that no inscription
on entablatures less broad than the earth itself can carry information of the events we commemorate
where it has not already gone; and that no structure, which shall not outlive the duration
of letters and knowledge among men, can prolong the memorial. But our object is, by this edifice,
to show our own deep sense of the value and importance of the achievements of our ancestors;
and, by presenting this work of gratitude to the eye, to keep alive similar sentiments, and
to foster a constant regard for the principles of the Revolution. Human beings are composed,
not of reason only, but of imagination also, and sentiment; and that is neither wasted nor
misapplied which is appropriated to the purpose of giving right direction to sentiments, and
opening proper springs of feeling in the heart. Let it not be supposed that our object is to
perpetuate national hostility, or even to cherish a mere military spirit. It is higher, purer,
nobler. We consecrate our work to the spirit of national independence, and we wish that the
light of peace may rest upon it forever. We rear a memorial of our conviction of that unmeasured
benefit which has been conferred on our own land, and of the happy influences which have been
produced, by the same events, on the general interests of mankind. We come, as Americans, to
mark a spot which must forever be dear to us and our posterity. We wish that whosoever, in
all coming time, shall turn his eye hither, may behold that the place is not undistinguished
where the first great battle of the Revolution was fought. We wish that this structure may
proclaim the magnitude and importance of that event to every class and every age. We wish that
infancy may learn the purpose of its erection from maternal lips, and that weary and withered
age may behold it, and be solaced by the recollections which it suggests. We wish that labor
may look up here, and be proud, in the midst of its toil. We wish that, in those days of disaster,
which, as they come upon all nations, must be expected to come upon us also, desponding patriotism
may turn its eyes hitherward, and be assured that the foundations of our national power are
still strong. We wish that this column, rising towards heaven among the pointed spires of so
many temples dedicated to God, may contribute also to produce, in all minds, a pious feeling
of dependence and gratitude. We wish, finally, that the last object to the sight of him who
leaves his native shore, and the first to gladden his who revisits it, may be something which
shall remind him of the liberty and the glory of his country. Let it rise! let it rise, till
it meet the sun in his coming; let the earliest light of the morning gild it, and parting day
linger and play on its summit.

We live in a most extraordinary age. Events so various and so important that they might crowd
and distinguish centuries are, in our times, compressed within the compass of a single life.
When has it happened that history has had so much to record in the same term of years, as since
the 17th of June, 1775? Our own Revolution, which, under other circumstances, might itself
have been expected to occasion a war of half a century, has been achieved; twenty-four sovereign
and independent States erected; and a general government established over them, so safe, so
wise, so free, so practical, that we might well wonder its establishment should have been accomplished
so soon, were it not far the greater wonder that it should have been established at all. Two
or three millions of people have been augmented to twelve, [3] the great forests of the West
prostrated beneath the arm of successful industry, and the dwellers on the banks of the Ohio
and the Mississippi become the fellow-citizens and neighbors of those who cultivate the hills
of New England. [4] We have a commerce, that leaves no sea unexplored; navies, which take no
law from superior force; revenues, adequate to all the exigencies of government, almost without
taxation; and peace with all nations, founded on equal rights and mutual respect.

Europe, within the same period, has been agitated by a mighty revolution, which, while it has
been felt in the individual condition and happiness of almost every man, has shaken to the
centre her political fabric, and dashed against one another thrones which had stood tranquil
for ages. On this, our continent, our own example has been followed, and colonies have sprung
up to be nations. Unaccustomed sounds of liberty and free government have reached us from beyond
the track of the sun; and at this moment the dominion of European power in this continent,
from the place where we stand to the south pole, is annihilated forever.

In the mean time, both in Europe and America, such has been the general progress of knowledge,
such the improvement in legislation, in commerce, in the arts, in letters, and, above all,
in liberal ideas and the general spirit of the age, that the whole world seems changed.

Yet, notwithstanding that this is but a faint abstract of the things which have happened since
the day of the battle of Bunker Hill, we are but fifty years removed from it; and we now stand
here to enjoy all the blessings of our own condition, and to look abroad on the brightened
prospects of the world, while we still have among us some of those who were active agents in
the scenes of 1775, and who are now here, from every quarter of New England, to visit once
more, and under circumstances so affecting, I had almost said so overwhelming, this renowned
theatre of their courage and patriotism.

VENERABLE MEN! you have come down to us from a former generation. Heaven has bounteously lengthened
out your lives, that you might behold this joyous day. You are now where you stood fifty years
ago, this very hour, with your brothers and your neighbors, shoulder to shoulder, in the strife
for your country. Behold, how altered! The same heavens are indeed over your heads; the same
ocean rolls at your feet; but all else, how changed! You hear now no roar of hostile cannon,
you see no mixed volumes of smoke and flame rising from burning Charlestown. The ground strewed
with the dead and the dying; the impetuous charge; the steady and successful repulse; the loud
call to repeated assault; the summoning of all that is manly to repeated resistance; a thousand
bosoms freely and fearlessly bared in an instant to whatever of terror there may be in war
and death;-- all these you have witnessed, but you witness them no more. All is peace. The
heights of yonder metropolis, its towers and roofs, which you then saw filled with wives and
children and countrymen in distress and terror, and looking with unutterable emotions for the
issue of the combat, have presented you to-day with the sight of its whole happy population,
come out to welcome and greet you with a universal jubilee. Yonder proud ships, by a felicity
of position appropriately lying at the foot of this mount, and seeming fondly to cling around
it, are not means of annoyance to you, but your country's own means of distinction and defence.[5]
All is peace; and God has granted you the sight of your country's happiness, ere you slumber
in the grave. He has allowed you to behold and to partake the reward of your patriotic toils;
and he has allowed us, your sons and countrymen, to meet you here, and in the name of the present
generation, in the name of your country, in the name of liberty, to thank you! [6]

But, alas! you are not all here! Time and the sword have thinned your ranks. Prescott, Putnam,
Stark, Brooks, Read, Pomeroy, Bridge! our eyes seek for you in vain amid this broken band.
You are gathered to your fathers, and live only to your country in her grateful remembrance
and your own bright example. But let us not too much grieve, that you have met the common fate
of men. You lived at least long enough to know that your work had been nobly and successfully
accomplished. You lived to see your country's independence established, and to sheathe your
swords from war. On the light of Liberty you saw arise the light of Peace, like

  "another morn,
   Risen on mid-noon"; [7]

and the sky on which you closed your eyes was cloudless.

But ah! Him! the first great martyr in this great cause! Him! the premature victim of his own
self-devoting heart! Him! the head of our civil councils, and the destined leader of our military
bands, whom nothing brought hither but the unquenchable fire of his own spirit! Him! cut off
by Providence in the hour of overwhelming anxiety and thick gloom; falling ere he saw the star
of his country rise; pouring out his generous blood like water, before he knew whether it would
fertilize a land of freedom or of bondage!--how shall I struggle with the emotions that stifle
the utterance of thy name! Our poor work may perish; but thine shall endure! [8]

This monument may moulder away; the solid ground it rests upon may sink down to a level with
the sea; but thy memory shall not fail! Wheresoever among men a heart shall be found that beats
to the transports of patriotism and liberty, its aspirations shall be to claim kindred with
thy spirit!

But the scene amidst which we stand does not permit us to confine our thoughts or our sympathies
to those fearless spirits who hazarded or lost their lives on this consecrated spot. We have
the happiness to rejoice here in the presence of a most worthy representation of the survivors
of the whole Revolutionary army.

Veterans! you are the remnant of many a well-fought field. You bring with you marks of honor
from Trenton and Monmouth, from Yorktown, Camden, Bennington, and Saratoga. VETERANS OF HALF
A CENTURY! when in your youthful days you put everything at hazard in your country's cause,
good as that cause was, and sanguine as youth is, still your fondest hopes did not stretch
onward to an hour like this! At a period to which you could not reasonably have expected to
arrive, at a moment of national prosperity such as you could never have foreseen, you are now
met here to enjoy the fellowship of old soldiers, and to receive the overflowings of a universal
gratitude.

But your agitated countenances and your heaving breasts inform me that even this is not an
unmixed joy. I perceive that a tumult of contending feeling rushes upon you. The images of
the dead, as well as the persons of the living, present themselves before you. The scene overwhelms
you and I turn from it. May the Father of all mercies smile upon your declining years, and
bless them! And when you shall here have exchanged your embraces, when you shall once more
have pressed the hands which have been so often extended to give succor in adversity, or grasped
in the exultation of victory, then look abroad upon this lovely land which your young valor
defended, and mark the happiness with which it is filled; yea, look abroad upon the whole earth,
and see what a name you have contributed to give to your country, and what a praise you have
added to freedom, and then rejoice in the sympathy and gratitude which beam upon your last
days from the improved condition of mankind!

The occasion does not require of me any particular account of the battle of the 17th of June,
1775, nor any detailed narrative of the events which immediately preceded it. These are familiarly
known to all. In the progress of the great and interesting controversy, Massachusetts and the
town of Boston had become early and marked objects of the displeasure of the British Parliament.
This had been manifested in the act for altering the government of the Province, and in that
for shutting up the port of Boston. Nothing sheds more honor on our early history, and nothing
better shows how little the feelings and sentiments of the Colonies were known or regarded
in England, than the impression which these measures everywhere produced in America. [9] It
had been anticipated, that, while the Colonies in general would be terrified by the severity
of the punishment inflicted on Massachusetts, the other seaports would be governed by a mere
spirit of gain; and that, as Boston was now cut off from all commerce, the unexpected advantage
which this blow on her was calculated to confer on other towns would be greedily enjoyed. How
miserably such reasoners deceived themselves! How little they knew of the depth, and the strength,
and the intenseness of that feeling of resistance to illegal acts of power, which possessed
the whole American people! Everywhere the unworthy boon was rejected with scorn. The fortunate
occasion was seized everywhere, to show to the whole world that the Colonies were swayed by
no local interest, no partial interest, no selfish interest. The temptation to profit by the
punishment of Boston was strongest to our neighbors of Salem. Yet Salem was precisely the place
where this miserable proffer was spurned, in a tone of the most lofty self-respect and the
most indignant patriotism. "We are deeply affected," said its inhabitants, "with the sense
of our public calamities; but the miseries that are now rapidly hastening on our brethren in
the capital of the Province greatly excite our commiseration. By shutting up the port of Boston,
some imagine that the course of trade might be turned hither and to our benefit; but we must
be dead to every idea of justice, lost to all feelings of humanity, could we indulge a thought
to seize on wealth and raise our fortunes on the ruin of our suffering neighbors." These noble
sentiments were not confined to our immediate vicinity. In that day of general affection and
brotherhood, the blow given to Boston smote on every patriotic heart from one end of the country
to the other. Virginia and the Carolinas, as well as Connecticut and New Hampshire, felt and
proclaimed the cause to be their own. The Continental Congress, then holding its first session
in Philadelphia, expressed its sympathy for the suffering inhabitants of Boston, and addresses
were received from all quarters, assuring them that the cause was a common one, and should
be met by common efforts and common sacrifices. The Congress of Massachusetts responded to
these assurances; and in an address to the Congress at Philadelphia, bearing the official signature,
perhaps among the last, of the immortal Warren, notwithstanding the severity of its suffering
and the magnitude of the dangers which threatened it, it was declared, that this Colony "is
ready, at all times, to spend and to be spent in the cause of America."

But the hour drew nigh which was to put professions to the proof, and to determine whether
the authors of these mutual pledges were ready to seal them in blood. The tidings of Lexington
and Concord had no sooner spread, than it was universally felt that the time was at last come
for action. A spirit pervaded all ranks, not transient, not boisterous, but deep, solemn, determined,

  "totamque infusa per artus
   Mens agitat molem, et magno se corpore miscet." [10]

War, on their own soil and at their own doors, was, indeed, a strange work to the yeomanry
of New England; but their consciences were convinced of its necessity, their country called
them to it, and they did not withhold themselves from the perilous trial. The ordinary occupations
of life were abandoned; the plough was staid in the unfinished furrow; wives gave up their
husbands, and mothers gave up their sons, to the battles of a civil war. Death might come,
in honor, on the field; it might come, in disgrace, on the scaffold. For either and for both
they were prepared. The sentiment of Quincy was full in their hearts. "Blandishments," said
that distinguished son of genius and patriotism, "will not fascinate us, nor will threats of
a halter intimidate; for, under God, we are determined that, wheresoever, whensoever, or howsoever
we shall be called to make our exit, we will die free men."

The 17th of June saw the four New England Colonies standing here, side by side, to triumph
or to fall together; and there was with them from that moment to the end of the war, what I
hope will remain with them forever: one cause, one country, one heart.

The battle of Bunker Hill was attended with the most important effects beyond its immediate
results as a military engagement. It created at once a state of open, public war. There could
now be no longer a question of proceeding against individuals, as guilty of treason or rebellion.
That fearful crisis was past. The appeal lay to the sword, and the only question was, whether
the spirit and the resources of the people would hold out, till the object should be accomplished.
Nor were its general consequences confined to our own country. The previous proceedings of
the Colonies, their appeals, resolutions, and addresses, had made their cause known to Europe.
Without boasting, we may say, that in no age or country has the public cause been maintained
with more force of argument, more power of illustration, or more of that persuasion which excited
feeling and elevated principle can alone bestow, than the Revolutionary state papers exhibit.
These papers will forever deserve to be studied, not only for the spirit which they breathe,
but for the ability with which they were written. [11]

To this able vindication of their cause, the Colonies had now added a practical and severe
proof of their own true devotion to it, and given evidence also of the power which they could
bring to its support. All now saw, that if America fell, she would not fall without a struggle.
Men felt sympathy and regard, as well as surprise, when they beheld these infant states, remote,
unknown, unaided, encounter the power of England, and, in the first considerable battle, leave
more of their enemies dead on the field, in proportion to the number of combatants, than had
been recently known to fall in the wars of Europe.

Information of these events, circulating throughout the world, at length reached the ears of
one who now hears me.[12]

He has not forgotten the emotion which the fame of Bunker Hill, and the name of Warren, excited
in his youthful breast.

Sir, we are assembled to commemorate the establishment of great public principles of liberty,
and to do honor to the distinguished dead. The occasion is too severe for eulogy of the living.
But, Sir, your interesting relation to this country, the peculiar circumstances which surround
you and surround us, call on me to express the happiness which we derive from your presence
and aid in this solemn commemoration.

Fortunate, fortunate man! with what measure of devotion will you not thank God for the circumstances
of your extraordinary life! You are connected with both hemispheres and with two generations.
Heaven saw fit to ordain, that the electric spark of liberty should be conducted, through you,
from the New World to the Old; and we, who are now here to perform this duty of patriotism,
have all of us long ago received it in charge from our fathers to cherish your name and your
virtues. You will account it an instance of your good fortune, Sir, that you crossed the seas
to visit us at a time which enables you to be present at this solemnity. You now behold the
field, the renown of which reached you in the heart of France, and caused a thrill in your
ardent bosom. You see the lines of the little redoubt thrown up by the incredible diligence
of Prescott; defended, to the last extremity, by his lion-hearted valor; and within which the
corner-stone of our monument has now taken its position. You see where Warren fell, and where
Parker, Gardner, McCleary, Moore, and other early patriots, fell with him. Those who survived
that day, and whose lives have been prolonged to the present hour, are now around you. Some
of them you have known in the trying scenes of the war. Behold! they now stretch forth their
feeble arms to embrace you. Behold! they raise their trembling voices to invoke the blessing
of God on you and yours forever!

Sir, you have assisted us in laying the foundation of this structure. You have heard us rehearse,
with our feeble commendation, the names of departed patriots. Monuments and eulogy belong to
the dead. We give them this day to Warren and his associates. On other occasions they have
been given to your more immediate companions in arms, to Washington, to Greene, to Gates, to
Sullivan, and to Lincoln. We have become reluctant to grant these, our highest and last honors,
further. We would gladly hold them yet back from the little remnant of that immortal band.
Serus in coelum redeas. Illustrious as are your merits, yet far, O very far distant be the
day, when any inscription shall bear your name, or any tongue pronounce its eulogy!

The leading reflection to which this occasion seems to invite us, respects the great changes
which have happened in the fifty years since the battle of Bunker Hill was fought. And it peculiarly
marks the character of the present age, that, in looking at these changes, and in estimating
their effect on our condition, we are obliged to consider, not what has been done in our own
country only, but in others also. In these interesting times, while nations are making separate
and individual advances in improvement, they make, too, a common progress; like vessels on
a common tide, propelled by the gales at different rates, according to their several structure
and management, but all moved forward by one mighty current, strong enough to bear onward whatever
does not sink beneath it.

A chief distinction of the present day is a community of opinions and knowledge amongst men
in different nations, existing in a degree heretofore unknown. Knowledge has, in our time,
triumphed, and is triumphing, over distance, over difference of languages, over diversity of
habits, over prejudice, and over bigotry. The civilized and Christian world is fast learning
the great lesson, that difference of nation does not imply necessary hostility, and that all
contact need not be war. The whole world is becoming a common field for intellect to act in.
Energy of mind, genius, power, wheresoever it exists, may speak out in any tongue, and the
world will hear it. A great cord of sentiment and feeling runs through two continents, and
vibrates over both. Every breeze wafts intelligence from country to country; every wave rolls
it; all give it forth, and all in turn receive it. There is a vast commerce of ideas; there
are marts and exchanges for intellectual discoveries, and a wonderful fellowship of those individual
intelligences which make up the mind and opinion of the age. Mind is the great lever of all
things; human thought is the process by which human ends are ultimately answered; and the diffusion
of knowledge, so astonishing in the last half-century, has rendered innumerable minds, variously
gifted by nature, competent to be competitors or fellow-workers on the theatre of intellectual
operation.

From these causes important improvements have taken place in the personal condition of individuals.
Generally speaking, mankind are not only better fed and better clothed, but they are able also
to enjoy more leisure; they possess more refinement and more self-respect. A superior tone
of education, manners, and habits prevails. This remark, most true in its application to our
own country, is also partly true when applied elsewhere. It is proved by the vastly augmented
consumption of those articles of manufacture and of commerce which contribute to the comforts
and the decencies of life; an augmentation which has far outrun the progress of population.
And while the unexampled and almost incredible use of machinery would seem to supply the place
of labor, labor still finds its occupation and its reward; so wisely has Providence adjusted
men's wants and desires to their condition and their capacity.

Any adequate survey, however, of the progress made during the last half- century in the polite
and the mechanic arts, in machinery and manufactures, in commerce and agriculture, in letters
and in science, would require volumes. I must abstain wholly from these subjects, and turn
for a moment to the contemplation of what has been done on the great question of politics and
government. This is the master topic of the age; and during the whole fifty years it has intensely
occupied the thoughts of men. The nature of civil government, its ends and uses, have been
canvassed and investigated; ancient opinions attacked and defended; new ideas recommended and
resisted, by whatever power the mind of man could bring to the controversy. From the closet
and the public halls the debate has been transferred to the field; and the world has been shaken
by wars of unexampled magnitude, and the greatest variety of fortune. A day of peace has at
length succeeded; and now that the strife has subsided, and the smoke cleared away, we may
begin to see what has actually been done, permanently changing the state and condition of human
society. And, without dwelling on particular circumstances, it is most apparent, that, from
the before-mentioned causes of augmented knowledge and improved individual condition, a real,
substantial, and important change has taken place, and is taking place, highly favorable, on
the whole, to human liberty and human happiness.

The great wheel of political revolution began to move in America. Here its rotation was guarded,
regular, and safe. Transferred to the other continent, from unfortunate but natural causes,
it received an irregular and violent impulse; it whirled along with a fearful celerity; till
at length, like the chariot-wheels in the races of antiquity, it took fire from the rapidity
of its own motion, and blazed onward, spreading conflagration and terror around.

We learn from the result of this experiment, how fortunate was our own condition, and how admirably
the character of our people was calculated for setting the great example of popular governments.
The possession of power did not turn the heads of the American people, for they had long been
in the habit of exercising a great degree of self-control. Although the paramount authority
of the parent state existed over them, yet a large field of legislation had always been open
to our Colonial assemblies. They were accustomed to representative bodies and the forms of
free government; they understood the doctrine of the division of power among different branches,
and the necessity of checks on each. The character of our countrymen, moreover, was sober,
moral, and religious; and there was little in the change to shock their feelings of justice
and humanity, or even to disturb an honest prejudice. We had no domestic throne to overturn,
no privileged orders to cast down, no violent changes of property to encounter. In the American
Revolution, no man sought or wished for more than to defend and enjoy his own. None hoped for
plunder or for spoil. Rapacity was unknown to it; the axe was not among the instruments of
its accomplishment; and we all know that it could not have lived a single day under any well-founded
imputation of possessing a tendency adverse to the Christian religion.

It need not surprise us, that, under circumstances less auspicious, political revolutions elsewhere,
even when well intended, have terminated differently. It is, indeed, a great achievement, it
is the master-work of the world, to establish governments entirely popular on lasting foundations;
nor is it easy, indeed, to introduce the popular principle at all into governments to which
it has been altogether a stranger. It cannot be doubted, however, that Europe has come out
of the contest, in which she has been so long engaged, with greatly superior knowledge, and,
in many respects, in a highly improved condition. Whatever benefit has been acquired is likely
to be retained, for it consists mainly in the acquisition of more enlightened ideas. And although
kingdoms and provinces may be wrested from the hands that hold them, in the same manner they
were obtained; although ordinary and vulgar power may, in human affairs, be lost as it has
been won; yet it is the glorious prerogative of the empire of knowledge, that what it gains
it never loses. On the contrary, it increases by the multiple of its own power; all its ends
become means; all its attainments, helps to new conquests. Its whole abundant harvest is but
so much seed wheat, and nothing has limited, and nothing can limit, the amount of ultimate product.

Under the influence of this rapidly increasing knowledge, the people have begun, in forms of
government, to think and to reason, on affairs of state. Regarding government as an institution
for the public good, they demand a knowledge of its operations, and a participation in its
exercise. A call for the representative system, wherever it is not enjoyed, and where there
is already intelligence enough to estimate its value, is perseveringly made. Where men may
speak out, they demand it; where the bayonet is at their throats, they pray for it.

When Louis the Fourteenth said: "I am the state," he expressed the essence of the doctrine
of unlimited power. By the rules of that system, the people are disconnected from the state;
they are its subjects; it is their lord. These ideas, founded in the love of power, and long
supported by the excess and the abuse of it, are yielding, in our age, to other opinions; and
the civilized world seems at last to be proceeding to the conviction of that fundamental and
manifest truth, that the powers of government are but a trust, and that they cannot be lawfully
exercised but for the good of the community. As knowledge is more and more extended, this conviction
becomes more and more general. Knowledge, in truth, is the great sun in the firmament. Life
and power are scattered with all its beams. The prayer of the Grecian champion, when enveloped
in unnatural clouds and darkness, is the appropriate political supplication for the people
of every country not yet blessed with free institutions:--

  "Dispel this cloud, the light of heaven restore,
   Give me TO SEE,--and Ajax asks no more." [13]

We may hope that the glowing influence of enlightened sentiment will promote the permanent
peace of the world. Wars to maintain family alliances, to uphold or to cast down dynasties,
and to regulate successions to thrones, which have occupied so much room in the history of
modern times, if not less likely to happen at all, will be less likely to become general and
involve many nations, as the great principle shall be more and more established, that the interest
of the world is peace, and its first great statute, that every nation possesses the power of
establishing a government for itself. But public opinion has attained also an influence over
governments which do not admit the popular principle into their organization. A necessary respect
for the judgment of the world operates, in some measure, as a control over the most unlimited
forms of authority. It is owing, perhaps, to this truth, that the interesting struggle of the
Greeks has been suffered to go on so long, without a direct interference, either to wrest that
country from its present masters, or to execute the system of pacification by force, and, with
united strength, lay the neck of Christian and civilized Greek at the foot of the barbarian
Turk. [14] Let us thank God that we live in an age when something has influence besides the
bayonet, and when the sternest authority does not venture to encounter the scorching power
of public reproach. Any attempt of the kind I have mentioned should be met by one universal
burst of indignation; the air of the civilized world ought to be made too warm to be comfortably
breathed by any one who would hazard it.

It is, indeed, a touching reflection, that, while, in the fulness of our country's happiness,
we rear this monument to her honor, we look for instruction in our undertaking to a country
which is now in fearful contest, not for works of art or memorials of glory, but for her own
existence. Let her be assured that she is not forgotten in the world; that her efforts are
applauded, and that constant prayers ascend for her success. And let us cherish a confident
hope for her final triumph. If the true spark of religious and civil liberty be kindled, it
will burn. Human agency cannot extinguish it. Like the earth's central fire, it may be smothered
for a time; the ocean may overwhelm it; mountains may press it down; but its inherent and unconquerable
force will heave both the ocean and the land, and at some time or other, in some place or other,
the volcano will break out and flame up to heaven.

Among the great events of the half-century, we must reckon, certainly, the revolution of South
America; and we are not likely to overrate the importance of that revolution, either to the
people of the country itself or to the rest of the world. The late Spanish colonies, now independent
states, under circumstances less favorable, doubtless, than attended our own revolution, have
yet successfully commenced their national existence. They have accomplished the great object
of establishing their independence; they are known and acknowledged in the world; and although
in regard to their systems of government, their sentiments on religious toleration, and their
provisions for public instruction, they may have yet much to learn, it must be admitted that
they have risen to the condition of settled and established states more rapidly than could
have been reasonably anticipated. They already furnish an exhilarating example of the difference
between free governments and despotic misrule. Their commerce, at this moment, creates a new
activity in all the great marts of the world. They show themselves able, by an exchange of
commodities, to bear a useful part in the intercourse of nations.

A new spirit of enterprise and industry begins to prevail; all the great interests of society
receive a salutary impulse; and the progress of information not only testifies to an improved
condition, but itself constitutes the highest and most essential improvement.

When the Battle of Bunker Hill was fought, the existence of South America was scarcely felt
in the civilized world. The thirteen little Colonies of North America habitually called themselves
the "Continent." Borne down by colonial subjugation, monopoly, and bigotry, these vast regions
of the South were hardly visible above the horizon. But in our day there has been, as it were,
a new creation. The southern hemisphere emerges from the sea. Its lofty mountains begin to
lift themselves into the light of heaven; its broad and fertile plains stretch out, in beauty,
to the eye of civilized man, and at the mighty bidding of the voice of political liberty the
waters of darkness retire.

And now, let us indulge an honest exultation in the conviction of the benefit which the example
of our country has produced, and is likely to produce, on human freedom and human happiness.
Let us endeavor to comprehend in all its magnitude, and to feel in all its importance, the
part assigned to us in the great drama of human affairs. We are placed at the head of the system
of representative and popular governments. Thus far our example shows that such governments
are compatible, not only with respectability and power, but with repose, with peace, with security
of personal rights, with good laws, and a just administration.

We are not propagandists. Wherever other systems are preferred, either as being thought better
in themselves, or as better suited to existing condition, we leave the preference to be enjoyed.
Our history hitherto proves, however, that the popular form is practicable, and that with wisdom
and knowledge men may govern themselves; and the duty incumbent on us is, to preserve the consistency
of this cheering example, and take care that nothing may weaken its authority with the world.
If, in our case, the representative system ultimately fail, popular governments must be pronounced
impossible. No combination of circumstances more favorable to the experiment can ever be expected
to occur. The last hopes of mankind, therefore, rest with us; and if it should be proclaimed,
that our example had become an argument against the experiment, the knell of popular liberty
would be sounded throughout the earth.

These are excitements to duty; but they are not suggestions of doubt. Our history and our condition,
all that is gone before us, and all that surrounds us, authorize the belief, that popular governments,
though subject to occasional variations, in form perhaps not always for the better, may yet,
in their general character, be as durable and permanent as other systems. We know, indeed,
that in our country any other is impossible. The principle of free governments adheres to the
American soil. It is bedded in it, immovable as its mountains.

And let the sacred obligations which have devolved on this generation, and on us, sink deep
into our hearts. Those who established our liberty and our government are daily dropping from
among us. The great trust now descends to new hands. Let us apply ourselves to that which is
presented to us, as our appropriate object. We can win no laurels in a war for independence.
Earlier and worthier hands have gathered them all. Nor are there places for us by the side
of Solon, and Alfred, and other founders of states. Our fathers have filled them. But there
remains to us a great duty of defence and preservation; and there is opened to us, also, a
noble pursuit, to which the spirit of the times strongly invites us. Our proper business is
improvement. Let our age be the age of improvement. In a day of peace, let us advance the arts
of peace and the works of peace. Let us develop the resources of our land, call forth its powers,
build up its institutions, promote all its great interests, and see whether we also, in our
day and generation, may not perform something worthy to be remembered. Let us cultivate a true
spirit of union and harmony. In pursuing the great objects which our condition points out to
us, let us act under a settled conviction, and an habitual feeling, that these twenty-four
States are one country. Let our conceptions be enlarged to the circle of our duties. Let us
extend our ideas over the whole of the vast field in which we are called to act. Let our object
be, OUR COUNTRY, OUR WHOLE COUNTRY, AND NOTHING BUT OUR COUNTRY. And, by the blessing of God,
may that country itself become a vast and splendid monument, not of oppression and terror,
but of Wisdom, of Peace, and of Liberty, upon which the world may gaze with admiration forever!

The Reply to Hayne.

Mr. President,--When the mariner has been tossed for many days in thick weather, and on an
unknown sea, he naturally avails himself of the first pause in the storm, the earliest glance
of the sun, to take his latitude, and ascertain how far the elements have driven him from his
true course. Let us imitate this prudence, and, before we float farther on the waves of this
debate, refer to the point from which we departed, that we may at least be able to conjecture
where we now are. I ask for the reading of the resolution before the Senate. [1]

The Secretary read the resolution, as follows:--

"Resolved, That the Committee on Public Lands be instructed to inquire and report the quantity
of public lands remaining unsold within each State and Territory, and whether it be expedient
to limit for a certain period the sales of the public lands to such lands only as have heretofore
been offered for sale, and are now subject to entry at the minimum price. And, also, whether
the office of Surveyor-General, and some of the land offices, may not be abolished without
detriment to the public interest; or whether it be expedient to adopt measures to hasten the
sales and extend more rapidly the surveys of the public lands."

We have thus heard, Sir, what the resolution is which is actually before us for consideration;
and it will readily occur to every one, that it is almost the only subject about which something
has not been said in the speech, running through two days, by which the Senate has been entertained
by the gentleman from South Carolina. Every topic in the wide range of our public affairs,
whether past or present,--every thing, general or local, whether belonging to national politics
or party politics,--seems to have attracted more or less of the honorable member's attention,
save only the resolution before the Senate. He has spoken of every thing but the public lands;
they have escaped his notice. To that subject, in all his excursions, he has not paid even
the cold respect of a passing glance.

When this debate, Sir, was to be resumed, on Thursday morning, it so happened that it would
have been convenient for me to be elsewhere. The honorable member, however, did not incline
to put off the discussion to another day. He had a shot, he said, to return, and he wished
to discharge it. That shot, Sir, which he thus kindly informed us was coming, that we might
stand out of the way, or prepare ourselves to fall by it and die with decency, has now been
received. Under all advantages, and with expectation awakened by the tone which preceded it,
it has been discharged, and has spent its force. It may become me to say no more of its effect,
than that, if nobody is found, after all, either killed or wounded, it is not the first time,
in the history of human affairs, that the vigor and success of the war have not quite come
up to the lofty and sounding phrase of the manifesto. [2]

The gentleman, Sir, in declining to postpone the debate, told the Senate, with the emphasis
of his hand upon his heart, that there was something rankling here, which he wished to relieve.
[Mr. Hayne rose, and disclaimed having used the word rankling.] It would not, Mr. President,
be safe for the honorable member to appeal to those around him, upon the question whether he
did in fact make use of that word. But he may have been unconscious of it. At any rate, it
is enough that he disclaims it. But still, with or without the use of that particular word,
he had yet something here, he said, of which he wished to rid himself by an immediate reply.
In this respect, Sir, I have a great advantage over the honorable gentleman. There is nothing
here, Sir, which gives me the slightest uneasiness; neither fear, nor anger, nor that which
is sometimes more troublesome than either, the consciousness of having been in the wrong. There
is nothing, either originating here, or now received here by the gentleman's shot. Nothing
originating here, for I had not the slightest feeling of unkindness towards the honorable member.
Some passages, it is true, had occurred since our acquaintance in this body, which I could
have wished might have been otherwise; but I had used philosophy and forgotten them. I paid
the honorable member the attention of listening with respect to his first speech; and when
he sat down, though surprised, and I must even say astonished, at some of his opinions, nothing
was farther from my intention than to commence any personal warfare. Through the whole of the
few remarks I made in answer, I avoided, studiously and carefully, every thing which I thought
possible to be construed into disrespect. And, Sir, while there is thus nothing originating
here which I have wished at any time, or now wish, to discharge, I must repeat, also, that
nothing has been received here which rankles, or in any way gives me annoyance. I will not
accuse the honorable member of violating the rules of civilized war; I will not say, that he
poisoned his arrows. But whether his shafts were, or were not, dipped in that which would have
caused rankling if they had reached their destination, there was not, as it happened, quite
strength enough in the bow to bring them to their mark. If he wishes now to gather up those
shafts, he must look for them elsewhere; they will not be found fixed and quivering in the
object at which they were aimed. [3]

The honorable member complained that I had slept on his speech. I must have slept on it, or
not slept at all. The moment the honorable member sat down, his friend from Missouri rose,
[4] and, with much honeyed commendation of the speech, suggested that the impressions which
it had produced were too charming and delightful to be disturbed by other sentiments or other
sounds, and proposed that the Senate should adjourn. Would it have been quite amiable in me,
Sir, to interrupt this excellent good feeling? Must I not have been absolutely malicious, is;
I could have thrust myself forward, to destroy sensations thus pleasing? Was it not much better
and kinder, both to sleep upon them myself, and to allow others also the pleasure of sleeping
upon them? But if it be meant, by sleeping upon his speech, that I took time to prepare a reply
to it, it is quite a mistake. Owing to other engagements, I could not employ even the interval
between the adjournment of the Senate and its meeting the next morning, in attention to the
subject of this debate. [5] Nevertheless, Sir, the mere matter of fact is undoubtedly true.
I did sleep on the gentleman's speech, and slept soundly. And I slept equally well on his speech
of yesterday, to which I am now replying. It is quite possible that in this respect, also,
I possess some advantage over the honorable member, attributable, doubtless, to a cooler temperament
on my part; for, in truth, I slept upon his speeches remarkably well.

But the gentleman inquires why he was made the object of such a reply. Why was he singled out?
If an attack has been made on the East, he, he assures us, did not begin it; it was made by
the gentleman from Missouri. Sir, I answered the gentleman's speech because I happened to hear
it; and because, also, I chose to give an answer to that speech, which, if unanswered, I thought
most likely to produce injurious impressions. I did not stop to inquire who was the original
drawer of the bill. I found a responsible indorser before me, and it was my purpose to hold
him liable, and to bring him to his just responsibility, without delay. But, Sir, this interrogatory
of the honorable member was only introductory to another. He proceeded to ask me whether I
had turned upon him, in this debate, from the consciousness that I should find an overmatch,
if I ventured on a contest with his friend from Missouri. If, Sir, the honorable member, modestiae
gratia, had chosen thus to defer to his friend, and to pay him a compliment, without intentional
disparagement to others, it would have been quite according to the friendly courtesies of debate,
and not at all ungrateful to my own feelings. I am not one of those, Sir, who esteem any tribute
of regard, whether light and occasional, or more serious and deliberate, which may be bestowed
on others, as so much unjustly withholden from themselves. But the tone and manner of the gentleman's
question forbid me thus to interpret it. I am not at liberty to consider it as nothing more
than a civility to his friend. It had an air of taunt and disparagement, something of the loftiness
of asserted superiority, which does not allow me to pass it over without notice. It was put
as a question for me to answer, and so put as if it were difficult for me to answer, whether
I deemed the member from Missouri an overmatch for myself in debate here. It seems to me, Sir,
that this is extraordinary language, and an extraordinary tone, for the discussions of this body.

Matches and overmatches! Those terms are more applicable elsewhere than here, and fitter for
other assemblies than this. Sir, the gentleman seems to forget where and what we are. This
is a Senate, a Senate of equals, of men of individual honor and personal character, and of
absolute independence. We know no masters, we acknowledge no dictators. This is a hall for
mutual consultation and discussion; not an arena for the exhibition of champions. I offer myself,
Sir, as a match for no man; I throw the challenge of debate at no man's feet. But then, Sir,
since the honorable member has put the question in a manner that calls for an answer, I will
give him an answer; and I tell him, that, holding myself to be the humblest of the members
here, I yet know nothing in the arm of his friend from Missouri, either alone or when aided
by the arm of his friend from South Carolina, that need deter even me from espousing whatever
opinions I may choose to espouse, from debating whenever I may choose to debate, or from speaking
whatever I may see fit to say, on the floor of the Senate. Sir, when uttered as matter of commendation
or compliment, I should dissent from nothing which the honorable member might say of his friend.
Still less do I put forth any pretensions of my own. But when put to me as matter of taunt,
I throw it back, and say to the gentleman, that he could possibly say nothing less [6] likely
than such a comparison to wound my pride of personal character. The anger of its tone rescued
the remark from intentional irony, which otherwise, probably, would have been its general acceptation.
But, Sir, if it be imagined that by this mutual quotation and commendation; if it be supposed
that, by casting the characters of the drama, assigning to each his part, to one the attack,
to another the cry of onset; or if it be thought that, by a loud and empty vaunt of anticipated
victory, any laurels are to be won here; if it be imagined, especially, that any or all these
things will shake any purpose of mine,--I can tell the honorable member, once for all, that
he is greatly mistaken, and that he is dealing with one of whose temper and character he has
yet much to learn. Sir, I shall not allow myself, on this occasion, I hope on no occasion,
to be betrayed into any loss of temper; but if provoked, as I trust I never shall be, into
crimination and recrimination, the honorable member may perhaps find, that, in that contest,
there will be blows to take as well as blows to give; that others can state comparisons as
significant, at least, as his own, and that his impunity may possibly demand of him whatever
powers of taunt and sarcasm he may possess. I commend him to a prudent husbandry of his resources.

But, Sir, the Coalition! [7] The Coalition! Ay, "the murdered Coalition!" The gentleman asks,
if I were led or frighted into this debate by the spectre of the Coalition. "Was it the ghost
of the murdered Coalition," he exclaims, "which haunted the member from Massachusetts; and
which, like the ghost of Banquo, would never down?"

"The murdered Coalition!" Sir, this charge of a coalition, in reference to the late administration,
is not original with the honorable member. It did not spring up in the Senate. Whether as a
fact, as an argument, or as an embellishment, it is all borrowed. He adopts it, indeed, from
a very low origin, and a still lower present condition. It is one of the thousand calumnies
with which the press teemed, during an excited political canvass. It was a charge, of which
there was not only no proof or probability, but which was in itself wholly impossible to be
true. No man of common information ever believed a syllable of it. Yet it was of that class
of falsehoods, which, by continued repetition, through all the organs of detraction and abuse,
are capable of misleading those who are already far misled, and of further fanning passion
already kindling into flame. Doubtless it served in its day, and in greater or less degree,
the end designed by it. Having done that, it has sunk into the general mass of stale and loathed
calumnies. It is the very cast-off slough of a polluted and shameless press. Incapable of further
mischief, it lies in the sewer, lifeless and despised. It is not now, Sir, in the power of
the honorable member to give it dignity or decency, by attempting to elevate it, and to introduce
it into the Senate. He cannot change it from what it is, an object of general disgust and scorn.
On the contrary, the contact, if he choose to touch it, is more likely to drag him down, down,
to the place where it lies itself.

But, Sir, the honorable member was not, for other reasons, entirely happy in his allusion to
the story of Banquo's murder and Banquo's ghost. It was not, I think, the friends, but the
enemies of the murdered Banquo, at whose bidding his spirit would not down. The honorable gentleman
is fresh in his reading of the English classics, and can put me right if I am wrong; but, according
to my poor recollection, it was at those who had begun with caresses and ended with foul and
treacherous murder that the gory locks were shaken. The ghost of Banquo, like that of Hamlet,
was an honest ghost. It disturbed no innocent man. It knew where its appearance would strike
terror, and who would cry out, A ghost! It made itself visible in the right quarter, and compelled
the guilty and the conscience- smitten, and none others, to start, with,

  "Pr'ythee, see there! behold!--look! lo,
   If I stand here, I saw him!"

Their eyeballs were seared (was it not so, Sir?) who had thought to shield themselves by concealing
their own hand, and laying the imputation of the crime on a low and hireling agency in wickedness;
who had vainly attempted to stifle the workings of their own coward consciences by ejaculating
through white lips and chattering teeth, "Thou canst not say I did it!" I have misread the
great poet if those who had no way partaken in the deed of the death, either found that they
were, or feared that they should be, pushed from their stools by the ghost of the slain, or
exclaimed to a spectre created by their own fears and their own remorse, "Avaunt! and quit
our sight!"

There is another particular, Sir, in which the honorable member's quick perception of resemblances
might, I should think, have seen something in the story of Banquo, making it not altogether
a subject of the most pleasant contemplation. Those who murdered Banquo, what did they win
by it? Substantial good? Permanent power? Or disappointment, rather, and sore mortification,--dust
and ashes, the common fate of vaulting ambition overleaping itself? Did not even-handed justice
erelong commend the poisoned chalice to their own lips? Did they not soon find that for another
they had "filed their mind"? that their ambition, though apparently for the moment successful,
had but put a barren sceptre in their grasp? [8] Ay, Sir,

  "a barren sceptre in their gripe,
   Thence to be wrenched with an unlineal hand,
   No son of theirs succeeding."

Sir, I need pursue the allusion no farther. I leave the honorable gentleman to run it out at
his leisure, and to derive from it all the gratification it is calculated to administer. If
he finds himself pleased with the associations, and prepared to be quite satisfied, though
the parallel should be entirely completed, I had almost said, I am satisfied also; but that
I shall think of. Yes, Sir, I will think of that.

In the course of my observations the other day, Mr. President, I paid a passing tribute of
respect to a very worthy man, Mr. Dane of Massachusetts. It so happened that he drew the Ordinance
of 1787, for the government of the Northwestern Territory. A man of so much ability, and so
little pretence; of so great a capacity to do good, and so unmixed a disposition to do it for
its own sake; a gentleman who had acted an important part, forty years ago, in a measure the
influence of which is still deeply felt in the very matter which was the subject of debate,--
might, I thought, receive from me a commendatory recognition. But the honorable member was
inclined to be facetious on the subject. He was rather disposed to make it matter of ridicule,
that I had introduced into the debate the name of one Nathan Dane, of whom he assures us he
had never before heard. Sir, if the honorable member had never before heard of Mr. Dane, I
am sorry for it. It shows him less acquainted with the public men of the country than I had
supposed. Let me tell him, however, that a sneer from him at the mention of the name of Mr.
Dane is in bad taste. It may well be a high mark of ambition, Sir, either with the honorable
gentleman or myself, to accomplish as much to make our names known to advantage, and remembered
with gratitude, as Mr. Dane has accomplished. But the truth is, Sir, I suspect, that Mr. Dane
lives a little too far north. He is of Massachusetts, and too near the north star to be reached
by the honorable gentleman's telescope. If his sphere had happened to range south of Mason
and Dixon's line, he might, probably, have come within the scope of his vision.

I spoke, Sir, of the Ordinance of 1787, which prohibits slavery, in all future times, northwest
of the Ohio, as a measure of great wisdom and foresight, and one which had been attended with
highly beneficial and permanent consequences. I supposed that, on this point, no two gentlemen
in the Senate could entertain different opinions. But the simple expression of this sentiment
has led the gentleman, not only into a labored defence of slavery, in the abstract, and on
principle, but also into a warm accusation against me, as having attacked the system of domestic
slavery now existing in the Southern States. For all this, there was not the slightest foundation,
in anything said or intimated by me. I did not utter a single word which any ingenuity could
torture into an attack on the slavery of the South. I said, only, that it was highly wise and
useful, in legislating for the Northwestern country while it was yet a wilderness, to prohibit
the introduction of slaves; and I added, that I presumed there was no reflecting and intelligent
person, in the neighboring State of Kentucky, who would doubt that, if the same prohibition
had been extended, at the same early period, over that commonwealth, her strength and population
would, at this day, have been far greater than they are. If these opinions be thought doubtful,
they are nevertheless, I trust, neither extraordinary nor disrespectful. They attack nobody
and menace nobody. And yet, Sir, the gentleman's optics have discovered, even in the mere expression
of this sentiment, what he calls the very spirit of the Missouri question! [9] He represents
me as making an onset on the whole South, and manifesting a spirit which would interfere with,
and disturb, their domestic condition!

Sir, this injustice no otherwise surprises me, than as it is committed here, and committed
without the slightest pretence of ground for it. I say it only surprises me as being done here;
for I know full well, that it is, and has been, the settled policy of some persons in the South,
for years, to represent the people of the North as disposed to interfere with them in their
own exclusive and peculiar concerns. This is a delicate and sensitive point in Southern feeling;
and of late years it has always been touched, and generally with effect, whenever the object
has been to unite the whole South against Northern men or Northern measures. This feeling,
always carefully kept alive, and maintained at too intense a heat to admit discrimination or
reflection, is a lever of great power in our political machine. It moves vast bodies, and gives
to them one and the same direction. But it is without adequate cause, and the suspicion which
exists is wholly groundless. There is not, and never has been, a disposition in the North to
interfere with these interests of the South. Such interference has never been supposed to be
within the power of government; nor has it been in any way attempted. The slavery of the South
has always been regarded as a matter of domestic policy, left with the States themselves, and
with which the Federal government had nothing to do. Certainly, Sir, I am, and ever have been,
of that opinion. The gentleman, indeed, argues that slavery, in the abstract, is no evil. Most
assuredly I need not say I differ with him, altogether and most widely, on that point. I regard
domestic slavery as one of the greatest evils, both moral and political. But whether it be
a malady, and whether it be curable, and if so, by what means; or, on the other hand, whether
it be the vulnus immedicabile of the social system, I leave it to those whose right and duty
it is to inquire and to decide. And this I believe, Sir, is, and uniformly has been, the sentiment
of the North.

When it became necessary, or was thought so, by some political persons, to find an unvarying
ground for the exclusion of Northern men from confidence and from lead in the affairs of the
republic, then, and not till then, the cry was raised, and the feeling industriously excited,
that the influence of Northern men in the public counsels would endanger the relation of master
and slave. For myself, I claim no other merit than that this gross and enormous injustice towards
the whole North has not wrought upon me to change my opinions or my political conduct. I hope
I am above violating my principles, even under the smart of injury and false imputations. Unjust
suspicions and undeserved reproach, whatever pain I may experience from them, will not induce
me, I trust, to overstep the limits of constitutional duty, or to encroach on the rights of
others. The domestic slavery of the Southern States I leave where I find it,--in the hands
of their own governments. It is their affair, not mine. Nor do I complain of the peculiar effect
which the magnitude of that population has had in the distribution of power under this Federal
government. We know, Sir, that the representation of the States in the other house is not equal.
We know that great advantage in that respect is enjoyed by the slave-holding States; and we
know, too, that the intended equivalent for that advantage, that is to say, the imposition
of direct taxes in the same ratio, has become merely nominal, the habit of the government being
almost invariably to collect its revenue from other sources and in other modes. Nevertheless,
I do not complain; nor would I countenance any movement to alter this arrangement of representation.
It is the original bargain, the compact; let it stand; let the advantage of it be fully enjoyed.
The Union itself is too full of benefit to be hazarded in propositions for changing its original
basis. I go for the Constitution as it is, and for the Union as it is. But I am resolved not
to submit in silence to accusations, either against myself individually or against the North,
wholly unfounded and unjust,--accusations which impute to us a disposition to evade the constitutional
compact, and to extend the power of the government over the internal laws and domestic condition
of the States. All such accusations, wherever and whenever made, all insinuations of the existence
of any such purposes, I know and feel to be groundless and injurious. And we must confide in
Southern gentlemen themselves; we must trust to those whose integrity of heart and magnanimity
of feeling will lead them to a desire to maintain and disseminate truth, and who possess the
means of its diffusion with the Southern public; we must leave it to them to disabuse that
public of its prejudices. But in the mean time, for my own part, I shall continue to act justly,
whether those towards whom justice is exercised receive it with candor or with contumely.

Having had occasion to recur to the Ordinance of 1787, in order to defend myself against the
inferences which the honorable member has chosen to draw from my former observations on that
subject, I am not willing now entirely to take leave of it without another remark. It need
hardly be said, that that paper expresses just sentiments on the great subject of civil and
religious liberty. Such sentiments were common, and abound in all our state papers of that
day. But this Ordinance did that which was not so common, and which is not even now universal;
that is, it set forth and declared it to be a high and binding duty of government itself to
support schools and advance the means of education, on the plain reason that religion, morality,
and knowledge are necessary to good government, and to the happiness of mankind. One observation
further. The important provision incorporated into the Constitution of the United States, and
into several of those of the States, and recently, as we have seen, adopted into the reformed
constitution of Virginia, restraining legislative power in questions of private right, and
from impairing the obligation of contracts, is first introduced and established, as far as
I am informed, as matter of express written constitutional law, in this Ordinance of 1787.
And I must add, also, in regard to the author of the Ordinance, who has not had the happiness
to attract the gentleman's notice heretofore, nor to avoid his sarcasm now, that he was chairman
of that select committee of the old Congress, whose report first expressed the strong sense
of that body, that the old Confederation was not adequate to the exigencies of the country,
and recommended to the States to send delegates to the convention which formed the present
Constitution.

An attempt has been made to transfer from the North to the South the honor of this exclusion
of slavery from the Northwestern Territory. The journal, without argument or comment, refutes
such attempts. The cession by Virginia was made in March, 1784. On the 19th of April following,
a committee, consisting of Messrs. Jefferson, Chase, and Howell, reported a plan for a temporary
government of the territory, in which was this article: "That, after the year 1800, there shall
be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of the said States, otherwise than in punishment
of crimes, whereof the party shall have been convicted." Mr. Spaight of North Carolina moved
to strike out this paragraph. The question was put, according to the form then practised, "Shall
these words stand as a part of the plan?" New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, seven States, voted in the affirmative; Maryland, Virginia,
and South Carolina, in the negative. North Carolina was divided. As the consent of nine States
was necessary, the words could not stand, and were struck out accordingly. Mr. Jefferson voted
for the clause, but was overruled by his colleagues.

In March of the next year (1785), Mr. King of Massachusetts, seconded by Mr. Ellery of Rhode
Island, proposed the formerly rejected article, with this addition: "And that this regulation
shall be an article of compact, and remain a fundamental principle of the constitutions between
the thirteen original States, and each of the States described in the resolve." On this clause,
which provided the adequate and thorough security, the eight Northern States at that time voted
affirmatively, and the four Southern States negatively. The votes of nine States were not yet
obtained, and thus the provision was again rejected by the Southern States. The perseverance
of the North held out, and two years afterwards the object was attained. It is no derogation
from the credit, whatever that may be, of drawing the Ordinance, that its principles had before
been prepared and discussed, in the form of resolutions. If one should reason in that way,
what would become of the distinguished honor of the author of the Declaration of Independence?
There is not a sentiment in that paper which had not been voted and resolved in the assemblies,
and other popular bodies in the country, over and over again.

But the honorable member has now found out that this gentleman, Mr. Dane, was a member of the
Hartford Convention. [10] However uninformed the honorable member may be of characters and
occurrences at the North, it would seem that he has at his elbow, on this occasion, some highminded
and lofty spirit, some magnanimous and true-hearted monitor, possessing the means of local
knowledge, and ready to supply the honorable member with every thing, down even to forgotten
and moth-eaten two-penny pamphlets, which may be used to the disadvantage of his own country.
But as to the Hartford Convention, Sir, allow me to say, that the proceedings of that body
seem now to be less read and studied in New England than farther South. They appear to be looked
to, not in New England, but elsewhere, for the purpose of seeing how far they may serve as
a precedent. But they will not answer the purpose, they are quite too tame. The latitude in
which they originated was too cold. Other conventions, of more recent existence, have gone
a whole bar's length beyond it. The learned doctors of Colleton and Abbeville have pushed their
commentaries on the Hartford collect so far, that the original text-writers are thrown entirely
into the shade. I have nothing to do, Sir, with the Hartford Convention. Its journal, which
the gentleman has quoted, I never read. So far as the honorable member may discover in its
proceedings a spirit in any degree resembling that which was avowed and justified in those
other conventions to which I have alluded, or so far as those proceedings can be shown to be
disloyal to the Constitution, or tending to disunion, as far I shall be as ready as any one
to bestow on them reprehension and censure.

Having dwelt long on this convention, and other occurrences of that day, in the hope, probably,
(which will not be gratified), that I should leave the course of this debate to follow him
at length in those excursions, the honorable member returned, and attempted another object.
He referred to a speech of mine in the other house, the same which I had occasion to allude
to myself, the other day; and has quoted a passage or two from it, with a bold, though uneasy
and laboring, air of confidence, as if he had detected in me an inconsistency. Judging from
the gentleman's manner, a stranger to the course of the debate and to the point in discussion
would have imagined, from so triumphant a tone, that the honorable member was about to overwhelm
me with a manifest contradiction. Any one who heard him, and who had not heard what I had,
in fact, previously said, must have thought me routed and discomfited, as the gentleman had
promised. Sir, a breath blows all this triumph away. There is not the slightest difference
in the purport of my remarks on the two occasions. What I said here on Wednesday is in exact
accordance with the opinion expressed by me in the other house in 1825. Though the gentleman
had the metaphysics of Hudibras, though he were able

    "to sever and divide
     A hair 'twixt north and northwest side,"

he could yet not insert his metaphysical scissors between the fair reading of my remarks in
1825, and what I said here last week. There is not only no contradiction, no difference, but,
in truth, too exact a similarity, both in thought and language, to be entirely in just taste.
I had myself quoted the same speech; had recurred to it, and spoke with it open before me;
and much of what I said was little more than a repetition from it.

I need not repeat at large the general topics of the honorable gentleman's speech. When he
said yesterday that he did not attack the Eastern States, he certainly must have forgotten,
not only particular remarks, but the whole drift and tenor of his speech; unless he means by
not attacking, that he did not commence hostilities, but that another had preceded him in the
attack. He, in the first place, disapproved of the whole course of the government, for forty
years, in regard to its disposition of the public lands; and then, turning northward and eastward,
and fancying he had found a cause for alleged narrowness and niggardliness in the "accursed
policy" of the tariff, to which he represented the people of New England as wedded, he went
on for a full hour with remarks, the whole scope of which was to exhibit the results of this
policy, in feelings and in measures unfavorable to the West. I thought his opinions unfounded
and erroneous, as to the general course of the government, and ventured to reply to them.

The gentleman had remarked on the analogy of other cases, and quoted the conduct of European
governments towards their own subjects settling on this continent, as in point, to show that
we had been harsh and rigid in selling, when we should have given the public lands to settlers
without price. I thought the honorable member had suffered his judgment to be betrayed by a
false analogy; that he was struck with an appearance of resemblance where there was no real
similitude. I think so still. The first settlers of North America were enterprising spirits,
engaged in private adventure, or fleeing from tyranny at home. When arrived here, they were
forgotten by the mother country, or remembered only to be oppressed. Carried away again by
the appearance of anology, or struck with the eloquence of the passage, the honorable member
yesterday observed, that the conduct of government towards the Western emigrants, or my representation
of it, brought to his mind a celebrated speech in the British Parliament. It was, Sir, the
speech of Colonel Barre. On the question of the stamp act, or tea tax, I forget which, Colonel
Barre had heard a member on the treasury bench argue, that the people of the United States,
being British colonists, planted by the maternal care, nourished by the indulgence, and protected
by the arms of England, would not grudge their mite to relieve the mother country from the
heavy burden under which she groaned. The language of Colonel Barre, in reply to this, was:
"They planted by your care? Your oppression planted them in America. They fled from your tyranny,
and grew by your neglect of them. So soon as you began to care for them, you showed your care
by sending persons to spy out their liberties, misrepresent their character, prey upon them,
and eat out their substance."

And how does the honorable gentleman mean to maintain, that language like this is applicable
to the conduct of the government of the United States towards the Western emigrants, or to
any representation given by me of that conduct? Were the settlers in the West driven thither
by our oppression? Have they flourished only by our neglect of them? Has the government done
nothing but prey upon them, and eat out their substance? Sir, this fervid eloquence of the
British speaker, just when and where it was uttered, and fit to remain an exercise for the
schools, is not a little out of place, when it is brought thence to be applied here to the
conduct of our own country towards her own citizens. From America to England, it may be true;
from Americans to their own government, it would be strange language. Let us leave it, to be
recited and declaimed by our boys against a foreign nation; not introduce it here, to recite
and declaim ourselves against our own.

But I come to the point of the alleged contradiction. In my remarks on Wednesday, I contended
that we could not give away gratuitously all the public lands; that we held them in trust;
that the government had solemnly pledged itself to dispose of them as a common fund for the
common benefit, and to sell and settle them as its discretion should dictate. Now, Sir, what
contradiction does the gentleman find to this sentiment in the speech of 1825? He quotes me
as having then said, that we ought not to hug these lands as a very great treasure. Very well,
Sir, supposing me to be accurately reported in that expression, what is the contradiction?
I have not now said, that we should hug these lands as a favorite source of pecuniary income.
No such thing. It is not my view. What I have said, and what I do say, is, that they are a
common fund, to be disposed of for the common benefit, to be sold at low prices for the accommodation
of settlers, keeping the object of settling the lands as much in view as that of raising money
from them. This I say now, and this I have always said. Is this hugging them as a favorite
treasure? Is there no difference between hugging and hoarding this fund, on the one hand, as
a great treasure, and, on the other, of disposing of it at low prices, placing the proceeds
in the general treasury of the Union? My opinion is, that as much is to be made of the land
as fairly and reasonably may be, selling it all the while at such rates as to give the fullest
effect to settlement. This is not giving it all away to the States, as the gentleman would
propose; nor is it hugging the fund closely and tenaciously, as a favorite treasure; but it
is, in my judgment, a just and wise policy, perfectly according with all the various duties
which rest on government. So much for my contradiction. And what is it? Where is the ground
of the gentleman's triumph? What inconsistency in word or doctrine has he been able to detect?
Sir, if this be a sample of that discomfiture with which the honorable gentleman threatened
me, commend me to the word discomfiture for the rest of my life.

We approach, at length, Sir, to a more important part of the honorable gentleman's observations.
Since it does not accord with my views of justice and policy to give away the public lands
altogether, as a mere matter of gratuity, I am asked by the honorable gentleman on what ground
it is that I consent to vote them away in particular instances. How, he inquires, do I reconcile
with these professed sentiments, my support of measures appropriating portions of the lands
to particular roads, particular canals, particular rivers, and particular institutions of education
in the West? This leads, Sir, to the real and wide difference in political opinion between
the honorable gentleman and myself. On my part, I look upon all these objects as connected
with the common good, fairly embraced in its object and its terms; he, on the contrary, deems
them all, if good at all, only local good. This is our difference. The interrogatory which
he proceeded to put at once explains this difference. "What interest," asks he, "has South
Carolina in a canal in Ohio?" Sir, this very question is full of significance. It develops
the gentleman's whole political system; and its answer expounds mine. Here we differ. I look
upon a road over the Alleghenies, a canal round the falls of the Ohio, or a canal or railway
from the Atlantic to the Western waters, as being an object large and extensive enough to be
fairly said to be for the common benefit. The gentleman thinks otherwise, and this is the key
to his construction of the powers of the government. He may well ask what interest has South
Carolina in a canal in Ohio. On his system, it is true, she has no interest. On that system,
Ohio and Carolina are different governments, and different countries; connected here, it is
true, by some slight and ill-defined bond of union, but in all main respects separate and diverse.
On that system, Carolina has no more interest in a canal in Ohio than in Mexico. The gentleman,
therefore, only follows out his own principles; he does no more than arrive at the natural
conclusions of his own doctrines; he only announces the true results of that creed which he
has adopted himself, and would persuade others to adopt, when he thus declares that South Carolina
has no interest in a public work in Ohio.

Sir, we narrow-minded people of New England do not reason thus. Our notion of things is entirely
different. We look upon the States, not as separated, but as united. We love to dwell on that
union, and on the mutual happiness which it has so much promoted, and the common renown which
it has so greatly contributed to acquire. In our contemplation, Carolina and Ohio are parts
of the same country; States, united under the same general government, having interests, common,
associated, intermingled. In whatever is within the proper sphere of the constitutional power
of this government, we look upon the States as one. We do not impose geographical limits to
our patriotic feeling or regard; we do not follow rivers and mountains, and lines of latitude,
to find boundaries, beyond which public improvements do not benefit us. We who come here, as
agents and representatives of these narrow-minded and selfish men of New England, consider
ourselves as bound to regard with an equal eye the good of the whole, in whatever is within
our powers of legislation. Sir, if a railroad or canal beginning in South Carolina and ending
in South Carolina, appeared to me to be of national importance and national magnitude, believing,
as I do, that the power of government extends to the encouragement of works of that description,
if I were to stand up here and ask, What interest has Massachusetts in a railroad in South
Carolina? I should not be willing to face my constituents. [11] These same narrow-minded men
would tell me, that they had sent me to act for the whole country, and that one who possessed
too little comprehension, either of intellect or feeling, one one who was not large enough,
both in mind and in heart, to embrace the whole, was not fit to be intrusted with the interest
of any part.

Sir, I do not desire to enlarge the powers of the government by unjustifiable construction,
nor to exercise any not within a fair interpretation. But when it is believed that a power
does exist, then it is, in my judgment, to be exercised for the general benefit of the whole.
So far as respects the exercise of such a. power, the States are one. It was the very object
of the Constitution to create unity of interests to the extent of the powers of the general
government. In war and peace we are one; in commerce, one; because the authority of the general
government reaches to war and peace, and to the regulation of commerce. I have never seen any
more difficulty in erecting light-houses on the lakes, than on the ocean; in improving the
harbors of inland seas, than if they were within the ebb and flow of the tide; or in removing
obstructions in the vast streams of the West, more than in any work to facilitate commerce
on the Atlantic coast. If there be any power for one, there is power also for the other; and
they are all and equally for the common good of the country.

There are other objects, apparently more local, or the benefit of which is less general, towards
which, nevertheless, I have concurred with others, to give aid by donations of land. It is
proposed to construct a road, in or through one of the new States, in which this government
possesses large quantities of land. Have the United States no right, or, as a great and untaxed
proprietor, are they under no obligation to contribute to an object thus calculated to promote
the common good of all the proprietors, themselves included? And even with respect to education,
which is the extreme case, let the question be considered. In the first place, as we have seen,
it was made matter of compact with these States, that they should do their part to promote
education. In the next place, our whole system of land laws proceeds on the idea that education
is for the common good; because, in every division, a certain portion is uniformly reserved
and appropriated for the use of schools. And, finally, have not these new States singularly
strong claims, founded on the ground already stated, that the government is a great untaxed
proprietor, in the ownership of the soil? It is a consideration of great importance, that probably
there is in no part of the country, or of the world, so great call for the means of education,
as in these new States, owing to the vast number's of persons within those ages in which education
and instruction are usually received, if received at all. This is the natural consequence of
recency of settlement and rapid increase. The census of these States shows how great a proportion
of the whole population occupies the classes between infancy and manhood. These are the wide
fields, and here is the deep and quick soil for the seeds of knowledge and virtue; and this
is the favored season, the very spring-time for sowing them. Let them be disseminated without
stint. Let them be scattered with a bountiful hand, broadcast. Whatever the government can
fairly do towards these objects, in my opinion, ought to be done.

These, Sir, are the grounds, succinctly stated, on which my votes for grants of lands for particular
objects rest; while I maintain, at the same time, that it is all a common fund, for the common
benefit. And reasons like these, I presume, have influenced the votes of other gentlemen from
New England. Those who have a different view of the powers of the government, of course, come
to different conclusions, on these, as on other questions. I observed, when speaking on this
subject before, that if we looked to any measure, whether for a road, a canal, or any thing
else, intended for the improvement of the West, it would be found that, if the New England
ayes were struck out of the lists of votes, the Southern noes would always have rejected the
measure. The truth of this has not been denied, and cannot be denied. In stating this, I thought
it just to ascribe it to the constitutional scruples of the South, rather than to any other
less favorable or less charitable cause. But no sooner had I done this, than the honorable
gentleman asks if I reproach him and his friends with their constitutional scruples. Sir, I
reproach nobody. I stated a fact, and gave the most respectful reason for it that occurred
to me. The gentleman cannot deny the fact; he may, if he choose, disclaim the reason. It is
not long since I had occasion, in presenting a petition from his own State, to account for
its being intrusted to my hands, by saying, that the constitutional opinions of the gentleman
and his worthy colleague prevented them from supporting it. Sir, did I state this as matter
of reproach? Far from it. Did I attempt to find any other cause than an honest one for these
scruples? Sir, I did not. It did not become me to doubt or to insinuate that the gentleman
had either changed his sentiments, or that he had made up a set of constitutional opinions
accommodated to any particular combination of political occurrences. Had I done so, I should
have felt, that, while I was entitled to little credit in thus questioning other people's motives,
I justified the whole world in suspecting my own. But how has the gentleman returned this respect
for others' opinions? His own candor and justice, how have they been exhibited towards the
motives of others, while he has been at so much pains to maintain, what nobody has disputed,
the purity of his own? Why, Sir, he has asked when, and how, and why New England votes were
found going for measures favorable to the West. He has demanded to be informed whether all
this did not begin in 1825, and while the election of President was still pending.

Sir, to these questions retort would be justified; and it is both cogent and at hand. Nevertheless,
I will answer the inquiry, not by retort, but by facts. I will tell the gentleman when, and
how, and why New England has supported measures favorable to the West. I have already referred
to the early history of the government, to the first acquisition of the lands, to the original
laws for disposing of them, and for governing the territories where they lie; and have shown
the influence of New England men and New England principles in all these leading measures.
I should not be pardoned were I to go over that ground again. Coming to more recent times,
and to measures of a less general character, I have endeavored to prove that every thing of
this kind, designed for Western improvement, has depended on the votes of New England; all
this is true beyond the power of contradiction. And now, Sir, there are two measures to which
I will refer, not so ancient as to belong to the early history of the public lands, and not
so recent as to be on this side of the period when the gentleman charitably imagines a new
direction may have been given to New England feeling and New England votes. These measures,
and the New England votes in support of them, may be taken as samples and specimens of all
the rest.

In 1820 (observe, Mr. President, in 1820) the people of the West besought Congress for a reduction
in the price of lands. In favor of that reduction, New England, with a delegation of forty
members in the other house, gave thirty-three votes, and one only against it. The four Southern
States, with more than fifty members, gave thirty-two votes for it, and seven against it. Again,
in 1821, (observe again, Sir, the time,) the law passed for the relief of the purchasers of
the public lands. This was a measure of vital importance to the West, and more especially to
the Southwest. It authorized the relinquishment of contracts for lands which had been entered
into at high prices, and a reduction in other cases of not less than thirty-seven and a half
per cent on the purchase-money. Many millions of dollars, six or seven, I believe, probably
much more, were relinquished by this law. On this bill, New England, with her forty members,
gave more affirmative votes than the four Southern States, with their fifty-two or fifty-three
members. These two are far the most important general measures respecting the public lands
which have been adopted within the last twenty years. They took place in 1820 and 1821. That
is the time when.

As to the manner how, the gentleman already sees that it was by voting in solid column for
the required relief; and, lastly, as to the cause why, I tell the gentleman it was because
the members from New England thought the measures just and salutary; because they entertained
towards the West neither envy, hatred, nor malice; because they deemed it becoming them, as
just and enlightened public men, to meet the exigency which had arisen in the West with the
appropriate measure of relief; because they felt it due to their own characters, and the characters
of their New England predecessors in this government, to act towards the new States in the
spirit of a liberal, patronizing, magnanimous policy. So much, Sir, for the cause why; and
I hope that by this time, Sir, the honorable gentleman is satisfied; if not, I do not know
when, or how, or why he ever will be. Having recurred to these two important measures, in answer
to the gentleman's inquiries, I must now beg permission to go back to a period somewhat earlier,
for the purpose of still further showing how much, or rather how little, reason there is for
the gentleman's insinuation that political hopes or fears, or party associations, were the
grounds of these New England votes. And after what has been said, I hope it may be forgiven
me if I allude to some political opinions and votes of my own, of very little public importance
certainly, but which, from the time at which they were given and expressed, may pass for good
witnesses on this occasion.

This government, Mr. President, from its origin to the peace of 1815, had been too much engrossed
with various other important concerns to be able to turn its thoughts inward, and look to the
development of its vast internal resources. In the early part of President Washington's administration,
it was fully occupied with completing its own organization, providing for the public debt,
defending the frontiers, and maintaining domestic peace. Before the termination of that administration,
the fires of the French Revolution blazed forth, as from a new-opened volcano, and the whole
breadth of the ocean did not secure us from its effects. The smoke and the cinders reached
us, though not the burning lava. Difficult and agitating questions, embarrassing to government
and dividing public opinion, sprung out of the new state of our foreign relations, and were
succeeded by others, and yet again by others, equally embarrassing and equally exciting division
and discord, through the long series of twenty years, till they finally issued in the war with
England. Down to the close of that war, no distinct, marked, and deliberate attention had been
given, or could have been given, to the internal condition of the country, its capacities of
improvement, or the constitutional power of the government in regard to objects connected with
such improvement.

The peace, Mr. President, brought about an entirely new and a most interesting state of things;
it opened to us other prospects and suggested other duties. We ourselves were changed, and
the whole world was changed. The pacification of Europe, after June, 1815, assumed a firm and
permanent aspect. The nations evidently manifested that they were disposed for peace. Some
agitation of the waves might be expected, even after the storm had subsided; but the tendency
was, strongly and rapidly, towards settled repose.

It so happened, Sir, that I was at that time a member of Congress, and, like others, naturally
turned my thoughts to the contemplation of the recently altered condition of the country and
of the world. It appeared plainly enough to me, as well as to wiser and more experienced men,
that the policy of the government would naturally take a start in a new direction; because
new directions would necessarily be given to the pursuits and occupations of the people. We
had pushed our commerce far and fast, under the advantage of a neutral flag. But there were
now no longer flags, either neutral or belligerent. The harvest of neutrality had been great,
but we had gathered it all. With the peace of Europe, it was obvious there would spring up
in her circle of nations a revived and invigorated spirit of trade, and a new activity in all
the business and objects of civilized life. Hereafter, our commercial gains were to be earned
only by success in a close and intense competition. Other nations would produce for themselves,
and carry for themselves, and manufacture for themselves, to the full extent of their abilities.
The crops of our plains would no longer sustain European armies, nor our ships longer supply
those whom war had rendered unable to supply themselves. It was obvious, that, under these
circumstances, the country would begin to survey itself, and to estimate its own capacity of
improvement.

And this improvement,--how was it to be accomplished, and who was to accomplish it? We were
ten or twelve millions of people, spread over almost half a world. We were more than twenty
States, some stretching along the same seaboard, some along the same line of inland frontier,
and others on opposite banks of the same vast rivers. Two considerations at once presented
themselves with great force, in looking at this state of things. One was, that that great branch
of improvement which consisted in furnishing new facilities of intercourse necessarily ran
into different States in every leading instance, and would benefit the citizens of all such
States. No one State, therefore, in such cases, would assume the whole expense, nor was the
co-operation of several States to be expected. Take the instance of the Delaware breakwater.
It will cost several millions of money. Would Pennsylvania alone ever have constructed it?
Certainly never, while this Union lasts, because it is not for her sole benefit. Would Pennsylvania,
New Jersey, and Delaware have united to accomplish it at their joint expense? Certainly not,
for the same reason. It could not be done, therefore, but by the general government. The same
may be said of the large inland undertakings, except that, in them, government, instead of
bearing the whole expense, co-operates with others who bear a part. The other consideration
is, that the United States have the means. They enjoy the revenues derived from commerce, and
the States have no abundant and easy sources of public income. The custom-houses fill the general
treasury, while the States have scanty resources, except by resort to heavy direct taxes.

Under this view of things, I thought it necessary to settle, at least for myself, some definite
notions with respect to the powers of the government in regard to internal affairs. It may
not savor too much of self- commendation to remark, that, with this object, I considered the
Constitution, its judicial construction, its contemporaneous exposition, and the whole history
of the legislation of Congress under it; and I arrived at the conclusion, that government had
power to accomplish sundry objects, or aid in their accomplishment, which are now commonly
spoken of as INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS. That conclusion, Sir, may have been right, or it may have
been wrong. I am not about to argue the grounds of it at large. I say only, that it was adopted
and acted on even so early as in 1816. Yes, Mr. President, I made up my opinion, and determined
on my intended course of political conduct, on these subjects, in the Fourteenth Congress,
in 1816. And now, Mr. President, I have further to say, that I made up these opinions, and
entered on this course of political conduct, Teucro duce. [12] Yes, Sir, I pursued in all this
a South Carolina track on the doctrines of internal improvement. South Carolina, as she was
then represented in the other house, set forth in 1816 under a fresh and leading breeze, and
I was among the followers. But if my leader sees new lights and turns a sharp corner, unless
I see new lights also, I keep straight on in the same path. I repeat, that leading gentlemen
from South Carolina were first and foremost in behalf of the doctrines of internal improvements,
when those doctrines came first to be considered and acted upon in Congress. The debate on
the bank question, on the tariff of 1816, and on the direct tax, will show who was who, and
what was what, at that time.

The tariff of 1816, (one of the plain cases of oppression and usurpation, from which, if the
government does not recede, individual States may justly secede from the government,) is, Sir,
in truth, a South Carolina tariff, supported by South Carolina votes. But for those votes,
it could not have passed in the form in which it did pass; whereas, if it had depended on Massachusetts
votes, it would have been lost. Does not the honorable gentleman well know all this? There
are certainly those who do, full well, know it all. I do not say this to reproach South Carolina.
I only state the fact; and I think it will appear to be true, that among the earliest and boldest
advocates of the tariff, as a measure of protection, and on the express ground of protection,
were leading gentlemen of South Carolina in Congress. I did not then, and cannot now, understand
their language in any other sense. While this tariff of 1816 was under discussion in the House
of Representatives, an honorable gentleman from Georgia, [13] now of this house, moved to reduce
the proposed duty on cotton. He failed, by four votes, South Carolina giving three votes (enough
to have turned the scale) against his motion. The act, Sir, then passed, and received on its
passage the support of a majority of the Representatives of South Carolina present and voting.
This act is the first in the order of those now denounced as plain usurpations. We see it daily
in the list, by the side of those of 1824 and 1828, as a case of manifest oppression, justifying
disunion. I put it home to the honorable member from South Carolina, that his own State was
not only "art and part" in this measure, but the causa causans. Without her aid, this seminal
principle of mischief, this root of Upas, could not have been planted. I have already said,
and it is true, that this act proceeded on the ground of protection. It interfered directly
with existing interests of great value and amount. It cut up the Calcutta cotton trade by the
roots; but it passed, nevertheless, and it passed on the principle of protecting manufactures,
on the principle against free trade, on the principle opposed to that which lets us alone. [14]

Such, Mr. President, were the opinions of important and leading gentlemen from South Carolina,
on the subject of internal improvement, in 1816. I went out of Congress the next year, and,
returning again in 1823, thought I found South Carolina where I had left her. I really supposed
that all things remained as they were, and that the South Carolina doctrine of internal improvements
would be defended by the same eloquent voices, and the same strong arms, as formerly. In the
lapse of these six years, it is true, political associations had assumed a new aspect and new
divisions. A strong party had arisen in the South hostile to the doctrine of internal improvements.
Anti-consolidation was the flag under which this party fought; and its supporters inveighed
against internal improvements, much after the manner in which the honorable gentleman has now
inveighed against them, as part and parcel of the system of consolidation. Whether this party
arose in South Carolina itself, or in the neighborhood, is more than I know. I think the latter.
However that may have been, there were those found in South Carolina ready to make war upon
it, and who did make intrepid war upon it. Names being regarded as things in such controversies,
they bestowed on the anti-improvement gentlemen the appellation of Radicals. Yes, Sir, the
appellation of Radicals, as a term of distinction applicable and applied to those who denied
the liberal doctrines of internal improvement, originated, according to the best of my recollection,
somewhere between North Carolina and Georgia. Well, Sir, these mischievous Radicals were to
be put down, and the strong arm of South Carolina was stretched out to put them down. About
this time I returned to Congress. The battle with the Radicals had been fought, and our South
Carolina champions of the doctrines of internal improvement had nobly maintained their ground,
and were understood to have achieved a victory. We looked upon them as conquerors. They had
driven back the enemy with discomfiture, a thing, by the way, Sir, which is not always performed
when it is promised. A gentleman to whom I have already referred in this debate had come into
Congress, during my absence from it, from South Carolina, and had brought with him a high reputation
for ability. He came from a school with which we had been acquainted, et noscitur a sociis.
I hold in my hand, Sir, a printed speech of this distinguished gentleman,[15] "ON INTERNAL
IMPROVEMENTS," delivered about the period to which I now refer, and printed with a few introductory
remarks upon consolidation; in which, Sir, I think he quite consolidated the arguments of his
opponents, the Radicals, if to crush be to consolidate. I give you a short but significant
quotation from these remarks. He is speaking of a pamphlet, then recently published, entitled
"Consolidation"; and, having alluded to the question of renewing the charter of the former
Bank of the United States, he says:--

"Moreover, in the early history of parties, and when Mr. Crawford advocated a renewal of the
old charter, it was considered a Federal measure; which internal improvement never was, as
this author erroneously states. This latter measure originated in the administration of Mr.
Jefferson, with the appropriation for the Cumberland Road; and was first proposed, as a system,
by Mr. Calhoun, and carried through the House of Representatives by a large majority of the
Republicans, including almost every one of the leading men who carried us through the late war."

So, then, internal improvement is not one of the Federal heresies.

When I took my seat there as a member from Massachusetts in 1823, we had a bill before us,
and passed it in that house, entitled, "An Act to procure the necessary surveys, plans, and
estimates upon the subject of roads and canals." This act, though preliminary in its nature,
covered the whole ground. It took for granted the complete power of internal improvement, as
far as any of its advocates had ever contended for it. Having passed the other house, the bill
came up to the Senate, and was here considered and debated in April, 1824. The honorable member
from South Carolina was a member of the Senate at that time. While the bill was under consideration
here, a motion was made to add the following proviso: "Provided, That nothing herein contained
shall be construed to affirm or admit a power in Congress, on their own authority, to make
roads or canals within any of the States of the Union." The yeas and nays were taken on this
proviso, and the honorable member voted in the negative! The proviso failed.

A motion was then made to add this proviso, viz.: "Provided, That the faith of the United States
is hereby pledged, that no money shall ever be expended for roads or canals, except it shall
be among the several States, and in the same proportion as direct taxes are laid and assessed
by the provisions of the Constitution." The honorable member voted against this proviso also,
and it failed. The bill was then put on its passage, and the honorable member voted for it,
and it passed, and became a law.

Now, it strikes me, Sir, that there is no maintaining these votes, but upon the power of internal
improvement, in its broadest sense. In truth, these bills for surveys and estimates have always
been considered as test questions; they show who is for and who against internal improvement.
This law itself went the whole length, and assumed the full and complete power. The gentleman's
votes sustained that power, in every form in which the various propositions to amend presented
it. He went for the entire and unrestrained authority, without consulting the States, and without
agreeing to any proportionate distribution. And now suffer me to remind you, Mr. President,
that it is this very same power, thus sanctioned, in every form, by the gentleman's own opinion,
which is so plain and manifest a usurpation, that the State of South Carolina is supposed to
be justified in refusing submission to any laws carrying the power into effect. Truly, Sir,
is not this a little too hard? May we not crave some mercy, under favor and protection of the
gentleman's own authority? Admitting that a road, or a canal, must be written down flat usurpation
as was ever committed, may we find no mitigation in our respect for his place, and his vote,
as one that knows the law?

The tariff, which South Carolina had an efficient hand in establishing, in 1816, and this asserted
power of internal improvement, advanced by her in the same year, and, as we have seen, approved
and sanctioned by her Representatives in 1824,--these two measures are the great grounds on
which she is now thought to be justified in breaking up the Union, if she sees fit to break it up!

I may now safely say, I think, that we have had the authority of leading and distinguished
gentlemen from South Carolina in support of the doctrine of internal improvement. I repeat,
that, up to 1824, I for one followed South Carolina; but when that star, in its ascension,
veered off in an unexpected direction, I relied on its light no longer. I have thus, Sir, perhaps
not without some tediousness of detail, shown, if I am in error on the subject of internal
improvement, how, and in what company, I fell into that error. If I am wrong, it is apparent
who misled me.

I go to other remarks of the honorable member; and I have to complain of an entire misapprehension
of what I said on the subject of the national debt, though I can hardly perceive how any one
could misunderstand me. What I said was, not that I wished to put off the payment of the debt,
but, on the contrary, that I had always voted for every measure for its reduction, as uniformly
as the gentleman himself. He seems to claim the exclusive merit of a disposition to reduce
the public charge. I do not allow it to him. As a debt, I was, I am for paying it, because
it is a charge on our finances, and on the industry of the country. But I observed, that I
thought I perceived a morbid fervor on that subject, an excessive anxiety to pay off the debt,
not so much because it is a debt simply, as because, while it lasts, it furnishes one objection
to disunion. It is, while it continues, a tie of common interest. I did not impute such motives
to the honorable member himself, but that there is such an opinion in existence I have not
a particle of doubt. The most I said was, that, if one effect of the debt was to strengthen
our Union, that effect itself was not regretted by me, however much others might regret it.
The gentleman has not seen how to reply to this, otherwise than by supposing me to have advanced
the doctrine that a national debt is a national blessing. Others, I must hope, will find much
less difficulty in understanding me. I distinctly and pointedly cautioned the honorable member
not to understand me as expressing an opinion favorable to the continuance of the debt. I repeated
this caution, and repeated it more than once; but it was thrown away.

On yet another point, I was still more unaccountably misunderstood. The gentleman had harangued
against "consolidation." I told him, in reply, that there was one kind of consolidation to
which I was attached, and that was the consolidation of our Union; that this was precisely
that consolidation to which I feared others were not attached, and that such consolidation
was the very end of the Constitution, the leading object, as they had informed us themselves,
which its framers had kept in view. I turned to their communication,[16] and read their very
words, "the consolidation of the Union," and expressed my devotion to this sort of consolidation.
I said, in terms, that I wished not in the slightest degree to augment the powers of this government;
that my object was to preserve, not to enlarge; and that by consolidating the Union I understood
no more than the strengthening of the Union, and perpetuating it. Having been thus explicit,
having thus read from the printed book the precise words which I adopted, as expressing my
own sentiments, it passes comprehension how any man could understand me as contending for an
extension of the powers of the government, or for consolidation in that odious sense in which
it means an accumulation, in the federal government, of the powers properly belonging to the
States.

I repeat, Sir, that, in adopting the sentiment of the framers of the Constitution, I read their
language audibly, and word for word; and I pointed out the distinction, just as fully as I
have now done, between the consolidation of the Union and that other obnoxious consolidation
which I disclaimed. And yet the honorable member misunderstood me. The gentleman had said that
he wished for no fixed revenue,--not a shilling. If by a word he could convert the Capitol
into gold, he would not do it. Why all this fear of revenue? Why, Sir, because, as the gentleman
told us, it tends to consolidation. Now this can mean neither more nor less than, that a common
revenue is a common interest, and that all common interests tend to preserve the union of the
States. I confess I like that tendency; if the gentleman dislikes it, he is right in deprecating
a shilling of fixed revenue. So much, Sir, for consolidation.

As well as I recollect the course of his remarks, the honorable gentleman next recurred to
the subject of the tariff. He did not doubt the word must be of unpleasant sound to me, and
proceeded, with an effort neither new nor attended with new success, to involve me and my votes
in inconsistency and contradiction. I am happy the honorable gentleman has furnished me an
opportunity of a timely remark or two on that subject. I was glad he approached it, for it
is a question I enter upon without fear from anybody. The strenuous toil of the gentleman has
been to raise an inconsistency between my dissent to the tariff in 1824, and my vote in 1828.
It is labor lost. He pays undeserved compliment to my speech in 1824; but this is to raise
me high, that my fall, as he would have it, in 1828, may be more signal. Sir, there was no
fall. Between the ground I stood on in 1824 and that I took in 1828, there was not only no
precipice, but no declivity. It was a change of position to meet new circumstances, but on
the same level. A plain tale explains the whole matter. In 1816 I had not acquiesced in the
tariff, then supported by South Carolina. To some parts of it, especially, I felt and expressed
great repugnance. I held the same opinions in 1820, at the meeting in Faneuil Hall, to which
the gentleman has alluded.

With a great majority of the Representatives of Massachusetts, I voted against the tariff of
1824.[17] My reasons were then given, and I will not now repeat them. But, notwithstanding
our dissent, the great States of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Kentucky went for the bill,
in almost unbroken column, and it passed. Congress and the President sanctioned it, and it
became the law of the land. What, then, were we to do? Our only option was, either to fall
in with this settled course of public policy, and accommodate ourselves to it as well as we
could, or to embrace the South Carolina doctrine, and talk of nullifying the statute by State
interference.

This last alternative did not suit our principles, and of course we adopted the former. In
1827, the subject came again before Congress, on a proposition to afford some relief to the
branch of wool and woollens. We looked upon the system of protection as being fixed and settled.
The law of 1824 remained. It had gone into full operation, and, in regard to some objects intended
by it, perhaps most of them, had produced all its expected effects. No man proposed to repeal
it; no man attempted to renew the general contest on its principle. But, owing to subsequent
and unforeseen occurrences, the benefit intended by it to wool and woollen fabrics had not
been realized. Events not known here when the law passed had taken place, which defeated its
object in that particular respect. A measure was accordingly brought forward to meet this precise
deficiency, to remedy this particular defect. It was limited to wool and woollens. Was ever
anything more reasonable? If the policy of the tariff laws had become established in principle,
as the permanent policy of the government, should they not be revised and amended, and made
equal, like other laws, as exigencies should arise, or justice require? Because we had doubted
about adopting the system, were we to refuse to cure its manifest defects, after it had been
adopted, and when no one attempted its repeal? And this, Sir, is the inconsistency so much
bruited. I had voted against the tariff of 1824, but it passed; and in 1827 and 1828 I voted
to amend it, in a point essential to the interest of my constituents. Where is the inconsistency?
Could I do otherwise? Sir, does political consistency consist in always giving negative votes?
Does it require of a public man to refuse to concur in amending laws, because they passed against
his consent? Having voted against the tariff originally, does consistency demand that I should
do all in my power to maintain an unequal tariff, burdensome to my own constituents in many
respects, favorable in none? To consistency of that sort, I lay no claim. And there is another
sort to which I lay as little, and that is, a kind of consistency by which persons feel themselves
as much bound to oppose a proposition after it has become a law of the land as before.

Sir, as to the general subject of the tariff, I have little now to say. Another opportunity
may be presented. I remarked the other day, that this policy did not begin with us in New England;
and yet, Sir, New England is charged with vehemence as being favorable, or charged with equal
vehemence as being unfavorable, to the tariff policy, just as best suits the time, place, and
occasion for making some charge against her. The credulity of the public has been put to its
extreme capacity of false impression relative to her conduct in this particular. Through all
the South, during the late contest, it was New England policy and a New England administration
that were afflicting the country with a tariff beyond all endurance; while on the other side
of the Alleghanies even the act of 1828 itself, the very sublimated essence of oppression,
according to Southern opinions, was pronounced to be one of those blessings for which the West
was indebted to the "generous South."

With large investments in manufacturing establishments, and many and various interests connected
with and dependent on them, it is not to be expected that New England, any more than other
portions of the country, will now consent to any measure destructive or highly dangerous. The
duty of the government, at the present moment, would seem to be to preserve, not to destroy;
to maintain the position which it has assumed; and, for one, I shall feel it an indispensable
obligation to hold it steady, as far as in my power, to that degree of protection which it
has undertaken to bestow. No more of the tariff.

Professing to be provoked by what he chose to consider a charge made by me against South Carolina,
the honorable member, Mr. President, has taken up a new crusade against New England. Leaving
altogether the subject of the public lands, in which his success, perhaps, had been neither
distinguished nor satisfactory, and letting go, also, of the topic of the tariff, he sallied
forth in a general assault on the opinions, politics, and parties of New England, as they have
been exhibited in the last thirty years. This is natural. The "narrow policy" of the public
lands had proved a legal settlement in South Carolina, and was not to be removed. The "accursed
policy" of the tariff, also, had established the fact of its birth and parentage in the same
State. No wonder, therefore, the gentleman wished to carry the war, as he expressed it, into
the enemy's country. Prudently willing to quit these subjects, he was, doubtless, desirous
of fastening on others, which could not be transferred south of Mason and Dixon's line. The
politics of New England became his theme; and it was in this part of his speech, I think, that
he menaced me with such sore discomfiture. Discomfiture! Why, Sir, when he attacks anything
which I maintain, and overthrows it, when he turns the right or left of any position which
I take up, when he drives me from any ground I choose to occupy, he may then talk of discomfiture,
but not till that distant day. What has he done? Has he maintained his own charges? Has he
proved what he alleged? Has he sustained himself in his attack on the government, and on the
history of the North, in the matter of the public lands? Has he disproved a fact, refuted a
proposition, weakened an argument, maintained by me? Has he come within beat of drum of any
position of mine? O, no; but he has "carried the war into the enemy's country"! Carried the
war into the enemy's country! Yes, Sir, and what sort of a war has he made of it? Why, Sir,
he has stretched a drag-net over the whole surface of perished pamphlets, indiscreet sermons,
frothy paragraphs, and fuming popular addresses,--over whatever the pulpit in its moments of
alarm, the press in its heats, and parties in their extravagance, have severally thrown off
in times of general excitement and violence. He has thus swept together a mass of such things
as, but that they are now old and cold, the public health would have required him rather to
leave in their state of dispersion. For a good long hour or two, we had the unbroken pleasure
of listening to the honorable member, while he recited with his usual grace and spirit, and
with evident high gusto, speeches, pamphlets, addresses, and all the et caeteras of the political
press, such as warm heads produce in warm times; and such as it would be "discomfiture" indeed
for any one, whose taste did not delight in that sort of reading, to be obliged to peruse.
This is his war. This it is to carry the war into the enemy's country. It is in an invasion
of this sort, that he flatters himself with the expectation of gaining laurels fit to adorn
a Senator's brow!

Mr. President, I shall not, it will not, I trust, be expected that I should, either now or
at any time, separate this farrago into parts, and answer and examine its components. I shall
barely bestow upon it all a general remark or two. In the run of forty years, Sir, under this
Constitution, we have experienced sundry successive violent party contests. Party arose, indeed,
with the Constitution itself, and, in some form or other, has attended it through the greater
part of its history. Whether any other constitution than the old Articles of Confederation
was desirable, was itself a question on which parties divided; if a new constitution were framed,
what powers should be given to it was another question; and when it had been formed, what was,
in fact, the just extent of the powers actually conferred was a third. Parties, as we know,
existed under the first administration, as distinctly marked as those which have manifested
themselves at any subsequent period. The contest immediately preceding the political change
in 1801, and that, again, which existed at the commencement of the late war, are other instances
of party excitement, of something more than usual strength and intensity. In all these conflicts
there was, no doubt, much of violence on both and all sides. It would be impossible, if one
had a fancy for such employment, to adjust the relative quantum of violence between these contending
parties. There was enough in each, as must always be expected in popular governments. With
a great deal of popular and decorous discussion, there was mingled a great deal, also, of declamation,
virulence, crimination, and abuse. In regard to any party, probably, at one of the leading
epochs in the history of parties, enough may be found to make out another inflamed exhibition,
not unlike that with which the honorable member has edified us. For myself, Sir, I shall not
rake among the rubbish of bygone times, to see what I can find, or whether I cannot find something
by which I can fix a blot on the escutcheon of any State, any party, or any part of the country.
General Washington's administration was steadily and zealously maintained, as we all know,
by New England. It was violently opposed elsewhere. We know in what quarter he had the most
earnest, constant, and persevering support, in all his great and leading measures. We know
where his private and personal character was held in the highest degree of attachment and veneration;
and we know, too, where his measures were opposed, his services slighted, and his character
vilified. We know, or we might know, if we turned to the journals, who expressed respect, gratitude,
and regret, when he retired from the chief magistracy, and who refused to express either respect,
gratitude, or regret. I shall not open those journals. Publications more abusive or scurrilous
never saw the light, than were sent forth against Washington, and all his leading measures,
from presses south of New England. But I shall not look them up. I employ no scavengers, no
one is in attendance on me, furnishing such means of retaliation; and if there were, with an
ass's load of them, with a bulk as huge as that which the gentleman himself has produced, I
would not touch one of them. I see enough of the violence of our own times, to be no way anxious
to rescue from forgetfulness the extravagances of times past.

Besides, what is all this to the present purpose? It has nothing to do with the public lands,
in regard to which the attack was begun; and it has nothing to do with those sentiments and
opinions which, I have thought, tend to disunion and all of which the honorable member seems
to have adopted himself, and undertaken to defend. New England has, at times, so argues the
gentleman, held opinions as dangerous as those which he now holds. Suppose this were so; why
should he therefore abuse New England? If he finds himself countenanced by acts of hers, how
is it that, while he relies on these acts, he covers, or seeks to cover, their authors with
reproach? But, Sir, if, in the course of forty years, there have been undue effervescences
of party in New England, has the same thing happened nowhere else? Party animosity and party
outrage, not in New England, but elsewhere, denounced President Washington, not only as a Federalist,
but as a Tory, a British agent, a man who, in his high office, sanctioned corruption. But does
the honorable member suppose, if I had a tender here who should put such an effusion of wickedness
and folly into my hand, that I would stand up and read it against the South? Parties ran into
great heats again in 1799 and 1800. What was said, Sir, or rather what was not said, in those
years, against John Adams, one of the committee that drafted the Declaration of Independence,
and its admitted ablest defender on the floor of Congress? If the gentleman wishes to increase
his stores of party abuse and frothy violence, if he has a determined proclivity to such pursuits,
there are treasures of that sort south of the Potomac, much to his taste, yet untouched. I
shall not touch them.

The parties which divided the country at the commencement of the late war were violent. But
then there was violence on both sides, and violence in every State. Minorities and majorities
were equally violent. There was no more violence against the war in New England, than in other
States; nor any more appearance of violence, except that, owing to a dense population, greater
facility of assembling, and more presses, there may have been more in quantity spoken and printed
there than in some other places. In the article of sermons, too, New England is somewhat more
abundant than South Carolina; and for that reason the chance of finding here and there an exceptionable
one may be greater. I hope, too, there are more good ones. Opposition may have been more formidable
in New England, as it embraced a larger portion of the whole population; but it was no more
unrestrained in principle, or violent in manner. The minorities dealt quite as harshly with
their own State governments as the majorities dealt with the administration here. There were
presses on both sides, popular meetings on both sides, ay, and pulpits on both sides also.
The gentleman's purveyors have only catered for him among the productions of one side. I certainly
shall not supply the deficiency by furnishing samples of the other. I leave to him, and to
them, the whole concern.

It is enough for me to say, that if, in any part of this their grateful occupation, if, in
all their researches, they find anything in the history of Massachusetts, or New England, or
in the proceedings of any legislative or other public body, disloyal to the Union, speaking
slightingly of its value, proposing to break it up, or recommending non-intercourse with neighboring
States, on account of difference of political opinion, then, Sir, I give them all up to the
honorable gentleman's unrestrained rebuke; expecting, however, that he will extend his buffetings
in like manner to all similar proceedings, wherever else found.

The gentleman, Sir, has spoken at large of former parties, now no longer in being, by their
received appellations, and has undertaken to instruct us, not only in the knowledge of their
principles, but of their respective pedigrees also. He has ascended to their origin, and run
out their genealogies. With most exemplary modesty, he speaks of the party to which he professes
to have himself belonged, as the true Pure, the only honest, patriotic party, derived by regular
descent, from father to son, from the time of the virtuous Romans! Spreading before us the
family tree of political parties, he takes especial care to show himself snugly perched on
a popular bough! He is wakeful to the expediency of adopting such rules of descent as shall
bring him in, to the exclusion of others, as an heir to the inheritance of all public virtue,
and all true political principle. His party and his opinions are sure to be orthodox; heterodoxy
is confined to his opponents. He spoke, Sir, of the Federalists, and I thought I saw some eyes
begin to open and stare a little, when he ventured on that ground. I expected he would draw
his sketches rather lightly, when he looked on the circle round him, and especially if he should
cast his thoughts to the high places out of the Senate. [18] Nevertheless, he went back to
Rome, ad annum urbis condita, and found the fathers of the Federalists in the primeval aristocrats
of that renowned--city! He traced the flow of Federal blood down through successive ages and
centuries, till he brought it into the veins of the American Tories, of whom, by the way, there
were twenty in the Carolinas for one in Massachusetts. From the Tories he followed it to the
Federalists; and, as the Federal party was broken up, and there was no possibility of transmitting
it further on this side the Atlantic, he seems to have discovered that it has gone off collaterally,
though against all the canons of descent, into the Ultras of France, and finally become extinguished,
like exploded gas, among the adherents of Don Miguel! [19]

This, Sir, is an abstract of the gentleman's history of Federalism. I am not about to controvert
it. It is not, at present, worth the pains of refutation; because, Sir, if at this day any
one feels the sin of Federalism lying heavily on his conscience, he can easily procure remission.
He may even obtain an indulgence, if he be desirous of repeating the same transgression. It
is an affair of no difficulty to get into this same right line of patriotic descent. A man
now-a-days is at liberty to choose his political parentage. He may elect his own father. Federalist
or not, he may, if he choose, claim to belong to the favored stock, and his claim will be allowed.
He may carry back his pretensions just as far as the honorable gentleman himself; nay, he may
make himself out the honorable gentleman's cousin, and prove, satisfactorily, that he is descended
from the same political great-grandfather. All this is allowable. We all know a process, Sir,
by which the whole Essex Junto [Footnote:20] could, in one hour, be all washed white from their
ancient Federalism, and come out, every one of them, original Democrats, dyed in the wool!
Some of them have actually undergone the operation, and they say it is quite easy. The only
inconvenience it occasions, as they tell us, is a slight tendency of the blood to the face,
a soft suffusion, which, however, is very transient, since nothing is said by those whom they
join calculated to deepen the red on the cheek, but a prudent silence is observed in regard
to all the past. Indeed, Sir, some smiles of approbation have been bestowed, and some crumbs
of comfort have fallen, not a thousand miles from the door of the Hartford Convention itself.
And if the author of the Ordinance of 1787 possessed the other requisite qualifications, there
is no knowing, notwithstanding his Federalism, to what heights of favor he might not yet attain.

Mr. President, in carrying his warfare, such as it is, into New England, the honorable gentleman
all along professes to be acting on the defensive. He chooses to consider me as having assailed
South Carolina, and insists that he comes forth only as her champion, and in her defence. Sir,
I do not admit that I made any attack whatever on South Carolina. Nothing like it. The honorable
member, in his first speech, expressed opinions, in regard to revenue and some other topics,
which I heard both with pain and with surprise. I told the gentleman I was aware that such
sentiments were entertained out of the government, but had not expected to find them advanced
in it; that I knew there were persons in the South who speak of our Union with indifference
or doubt, taking pains to magnify its evils, and to say nothing of its benefits; that the honorable
member himself, I was sure, could never be one of these; and I regretted the expression of
such opinions as he had avowed, because I thought their obvious tendency was to encourage feelings
of disrespect to the Union, and to impair its strength. This, Sir, is the sum and substance
of all I said on the subject. And this constitutes the attack which called on the chivalry
of the gentleman, in his own opinion, to harry us with such a foray among the party pamphlets
and party proceedings of Massachusetts! If he means that I spoke with dissatisfaction or disrespect
of the ebullitions of individuals in South Carolina, it is true. But if he means that I assailed
the character of the State, her honor, or patriotism, that I reflected on her history or her
conduct, he has not the slightest ground for any such assumption. I did not even refer, I think,
in my observations, to any collection of individuals. I said nothing of the recent conventions.
I spoke in the most guarded and careful manner, and only expressed my regret for the publication
of opinions, which I presumed the honorable member disapproved as much as myself. In this,
it seems, I was mistaken. I do not remember that the gentleman has disclaimed any sentiment,
or any opinion, of a supposed anti-union tendency, which on all or any of the recent occasions
has been expressed. [21] The whole drift of his speech has been rather to prove, that, in divers
times and manners, sentiments equally liable to my objection have been avowed in New England.
And one would suppose that his object, in this reference to Massachusetts, was to find a precedent
to justify proceedings in the South, were it not for the reproach and contumely with which
he labors, all along, to load these his own chosen precedents. By way of defending South Carolina
from what he chooses to think an attack on her, he first quotes the example of Massachusetts,
and then denounces that example in good set terms. This twofold purpose, not very consistent,
one would think, with itself, was exhibited more than once in the course of his speech. He
referred, for instance, to the Hartford Convention. Did he do this for authority, or for a
topic of reproach? Apparently for both, for he told us that he should find no fault with the
mere fact of holding such a convention, and considering and discussing such questions as he
supposes were then and there discussed; but what rendered it obnoxious was its being held at
the time, and under the circumstances of the country then existing. We were in a war, he said,
and the country needed all our aid; the hand of government required to be strengthened, not
weakened; and patriotism should have postponed such proceedings to another day. The thing itself,
then, is a precedent; the time and manner of it only, a subject of censure.

Now, Sir, I go much further, on this point, than the honorable member. Supposing, as the gentleman
seems to do, that the Hartford Convention assembled for any such purpose as breaking up the
Union, because they thought unconstitutional laws had been passed, or to consult on that subject,
or to calculate the value of the Union; supposing this to be their purpose, or any part of
it, then I say the meeting itself was disloyal, and was obnoxious to censure, whether held
in time of peace or time of war, or under whatever circumstances. The material question is
the object. Is dissolution the object? If it be, external circumstances may make it a more
or less aggravated case, but cannot affect the principle. I do not hold, therefore, Sir, that
the Hartford Convention was pardonable, even to the extent of the gentleman's admission, if
its objects were really such as have been imputed to it. Sir, there never was a time, under
any degree of excitement, in which the Hartford Convention, or any other convention, could
have maintained itself one moment in New England, if assembled for any such purpose as the
gentleman says would have been an allowable purpose. To hold conventions to decide constitutional
law! To try the binding validity of statutes by votes in a convention! Sir, the Hartford Convention,
I presume, would not desire that the honorable gentleman should be their defender or advocate,
if he puts their case upon such untenable and extravagant grounds.

Then, Sir, the gentleman has no fault to find with these recently promulgated South Carolina
opinions. And certainly he need have none; for his own sentiments, as now advanced, and advanced
on reflection, as far as I have been able to comprehend them, go the full length of all these
opinions. I propose, Sir, to say something on these, and to consider how far they are just
and constitutional. Before doing that, however, let me observe that the eulogium pronounced
by the honorable gentleman on the character of the State of South Carolina, for her Revolutionary
and other merits, meets my hearty concurrence. I shall not acknowledge that the honorable member
goes before me in regard for whatever of distinguished talent, or distinguished character,
South Carolina has produced. I claim part of the honor, I partake in the pride, of her great
names. I claim them for countrymen, one and all, the Laurenses, the Rutledges, the Pinckneys,
the Sumpters, the Marions, Americans all, whose fame is no more to be hemmed in by State lines,
than their talents and patriotism were capable of being circumscribed within the same narrow
limits. In their day and generation, they served and honored the country, and the whole country;
and their renown is of the treasures of the whole country. Him whose honored name the gentleman
himself bears,--does he esteem me less capable of gratitude for his patriotism, or sympathy
for his sufferings, than if his eyes had first opened upon the light of Massachusetts, instead
of South Carolina? Sir, does he suppose it in his power to exhibit a Carolina name so bright
as to produce envy in my bosom? No, Sir, increased gratification and delight, rather. I thank
God, that, if I am gifted with little of the spirit which is able to raise mortals to the skies,
I have yet none, as I trust, of that other spirit, which would drag angels down. When I shall
be found, Sir, in my place here in the Senate, or elsewhere, to sneer at public merit, because
it happens to spring up beyond the little limits of my own State or neighborhood; when I refuse,
for any such cause or for any cause, the homage due to American talent, to elevated patriotism,
to sincere devotion to liberty and the country; or, if I see an uncommon endowment of Heaven,
if I see extraordinary capacity and virtue, in any son of the South, and if, moved by local
prejudice or gangrened by State jealousy, I get up here to abate the tithe of a hair from his
just character and just fame, may my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth!

Sir, let me recur to pleasing recollections; let me indulge in refreshing remembrance of the
past; let me remind you that, in early times, no States cherished greater harmony, both of
principle and feeling, than Massachusetts and South Carolina. Would to God that harmony might
again return! Shoulder to shoulder they went through the Revolution, hand in hand they stood
round the administration of Washington, and felt his own great arm lean on them for support.
Unkind feeling, if it exist, alienation, and distrust are the growth, unnatural to such soils,
of false principles since sown. They are weeds, the seeds of which that same great arm never
scattered.

Mr. President, I shall enter on no encomium upon Massachusetts; she needs none. There she is.
Behold her, and judge for yourselves. There is her history; the world knows it by heart. The
past, at least, is secure. There is Boston, and Concord, and Lexington, and Bunker Hill; and
there they will remain for ever. The bones of her sons, falling in the great struggle for Independence,
now lie mingled with the soil of every State from New England to Georgia; and there they will
lie for ever. And, Sir, where American Liberty raised its first voice, and where its youth
was nurtured and sustained, there it still lives, in the strength of its manhood and full of
its original spirit. If discord and disunion shall wound it, if party strife and blind ambition
shall hawk at and tear it, if folly and madness, if uneasiness under salutary and necessary
restraint, shall succeed in separating it from that Union, by which alone its existence is
made sure, it will stand, in the end, by the side of that cradle in which its infancy was rocked;
it will stretch forth its arm with whatever of vigor it may still retain over the friends who
gather round it; and it will fall at last, if fall it must, amidst the proudest monuments of
its own glory, and on the very spot of its origin. [22]

There yet remains to be performed, Mr. President, by far the most grave and important duty,
which I feel to be devolved on me by this occasion. It is to state, and to defend, what I conceive
to be the true principles of the Constitution under which we are here assembled. I might well
have desired that so weighty a task should have fallen into other and abler hands. I could
have wished that it should have been executed by those whose character and experience give
weight and influence to their opinions, such as cannot possibly belong to mine. But, Sir, I
have met the occasion, not sought it; and I shall proceed to state my own sentiments, without
challenging for them any particular regard, with studied plainness, and as much precision as
possible.

I understand the honorable gentleman from South Carolina to maintain, that it is a right of
the State legislatures to interfere, whenever, in their judgment, this government transcends
its constitutional limits, and to arrest the operation of its laws.

I understand him to maintain this right, as a right existing under the Constitution, not as
a right to overthrow it on the ground of extreme necessity, such as would justify violent revolution.

I understand him to maintain an authority, on the part of the States, thus to interfere, for
the purpose of correcting the exercise of power by the general government, of checking it,
and of compelling it to conform to their opinion of the extent of its powers.

I understand him to maintain, that the ultimate power of judging of the constitutional extent
of its own authority is not lodged exclusively in the general government, or any branch of
it; but that, on the contrary, the States may lawfully decide for themselves, and each State
for itself, whether, in a given case, the act of the general government transcends its power.

I understand him to insist, that, if the exigency of the case, in the opinion of any State
government, require it, such State government may, by its own sovereign authority, annul an
act of the general government which it deems plainly and palpably unconstitutional.

This is the sum of what I understand from him to be the South Carolina doctrine, and the doctrine
which he maintains. I propose to consider it, and compare it with the Constitution. Allow me
to say, as a preliminary remark, that I call this the South Carolina doctrine only because
the gentleman himself has so denominated it. I do not feel at liberty to say that South Carolina,
as a State, has ever advanced these sentiments. I hope she has not, and never may. That a great
majority of her people are opposed to the tariff laws, is doubtless true. That a majority,
somewhat less than that just mentioned, conscientiously believe these laws unconstitutional,
may probably also be true. But that any majority holds to the right of direct State interference
at State discretion, the right of nullifying acts of Congress by acts of State legislation,
is more than I know, and what I shall be slow to believe.

That there are individuals besides the honorable gentleman who do maintain these opinions,
is quite certain. I recollect the recent expression of a sentiment, which circumstances attending
its utterance and publication justify us in supposing was not unpremeditated. "The sovereignty
of the State,--never to be controlled, construed, or decided on, but by her own feelings of
honorable justice." [23]

We all know that civil institutions are established for the public benefit, and that when they
cease to answer the ends of their existence they may be changed. But I do not understand the
doctrine now contended for to be that, which, for the sake of distinction, we may call the
right of revolution. I understand the gentleman to maintain, that it is constitutional to interrupt
the administration of the Constitution itself, in the hands of those who are chosen and sworn
to administer it, by the direct interference, in form of law, of the States, in virtue of their
sovereign capacity. The inherent right in the people to reform their government I do not deny;
and they have another right, and that is, to resist unconstitutional laws, without overturning
the government. It is no doctrine of mine that unconstitutional laws bind the people. The great
question is, Whose prerogative is it to decide on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality
of the laws? On that, the main debate hinges. The proposition, that, in case of a supposed
violation of the Constitution by Congress, the States have a constitutional right to interfere
and annul the law of Congress, is the proposition of the gentleman. I do not admit it. If the
gentleman had intended no more than to assert the right of revolution for justifiable cause,
he would have said only what all agree to. But I cannot conceive that there can be a middle
course, between submission to the laws, when regularly pronounced constitutional, on the one
hand, and open resistance, which is revolution or rebellion, on the other.

This leads us to inquire into the origin of this government and the source of its power. Whose
agent is it? Is it the creature of the State legislatures, or the creature of the people? If
the government of the United States be the agent of the State governments, then they may control
it, provided they can agree in the manner of controlling it; if it be the agent of the people,
then the people alone can control it, restrain it, modify, or reform it. It is observable enough,
that the doctrine for which the honorable gentleman contends leads him to the necessity of
maintaining, not only that this general government is the creature of the States, but that
it is the creature of each of the States severally, so that each may assert the power for itself
of determining whether it acts within the limits of its authority. It is the servant of four-and-twenty
masters, of different wills and different purposes, and yet bound to obey all. This absurdity
(for it seems no less) arises from a misconception as to the origin of this government and
its true character. It is, Sir, the people's Constitution, the people's government, made for
the people, made by the people, and answerable to the people. The people of the United States
have declared that this Constitution shall be the supreme law. We must either admit the proposition,
or dispute their authority. The States are, unquestionably, sovereign, so far as their sovereignty
is not affected by the supreme law. But the State legislatures, as political bodies, however
sovereign, are yet not sovereign over the people. So far as the people have given power to
the general government, so far the grant is unquestionably good, and the government holds of
the people, and not of the State governments. We are all agents of the same supreme power,
the people. The general government and the State governments derive their authority from the
same source. Neither can, in relation to the other, be called primary, though one is definite
and restricted, and the other general and residuary. The national government possesses those
powers which it can be shown the people have conferred on it, and no more. All the rest belongs
to the State governments, or to the people themselves. So far as the people have restrained
State sovereignty, by the expression of their will, in the Constitution of the United States,
so far, it must be admitted, State sovereignty is effectually controlled. I do not contend
that it is, or ought to be, controlled farther. The sentiment to which I have referred propounds
that State sovereignty is only to be controlled by its own "feeling of justice"; that is to
say, it is not to be controlled at all, for one who is to follow his own feelings is under
no legal control. Now, however men may think this ought to be, the fact is, that the people
of the United States have chosen to impose control on State sovereignties. There are those,
doubtless, who wish they had been left without restraint; but the Constitution has ordered
the matter differently. To make war, for instance, is an exercise of sovereignty; but the Constitution
declares that no State shall make war. To coin money is another exercise of sovereign power;
but no State is at liberty to coin money. Again, the Constitution says that no sovereign State
shall be so sovereign as to make a treaty. These prohibitions, it must be confessed, are a
control on the State sovereignty of South Carolina, as well as of the other States, which does
not arise "from her own feelings of honorable justice." The opinion referred to, therefore,
is in defiance of the plainest provisions of the Constitution.

There are other proceedings of public bodies which have already been alluded to, and to which
I refer again for the purpose of ascertaining more fully what is the length and breadth of
that doctrine, denominated the Carolina doctrine, which the honorable member has now stood
up on this floor to maintain. In one of them I find it resolved, that "the tariff of 1828,
and every other tariff designed to promote one branch of industry at the expense of others,
is contrary to the meaning and intention of the federal compact; and such a dangerous, palpable,
and deliberate usurpation of power, by a determined majority, wielding the general government
beyond the limits of its delegated powers, as calls upon the States which compose the suffering
minority, in their sovereign capacity, to exercise the powers which, as sovereigns, necessarily
devolve upon them, when their compact is violated." This denunciation, Mr. President, you will
please to observe, includes our old tariff of 1816, as well as all others; because that was
established to promote the interest of the manufacturers of cotton, to the manifest and admitted
injury of the Calcutta cotton trade. Observe, again, that all the qualifications are here rehearsed
and charged upon the tariff, which are necessary to bring the case within the gentleman's proposition.
The tariff is a usurpation; it is a dangerous usurpation; it is a palpable usurpation; it is
a deliberate usurpation. It is such a usurpation, therefore, as calls upon the States to exercise
their right of interference. Here is a case, then, within the gentleman's principles, and all
his qualifications of his principles. It is a case for action. The Constitution is plainly,
dangerously, palpably, and deliberately violated; and the States must interpose their own authority
to arrest the law. Let us suppose the State of South Carolina to express this same opinion,
by the voice of her legislature. That would be very imposing; but what then? Is the voice of
one State conclusive? It so happens that, at the very moment when South Carolina resolves that
the tariff laws are unconstitutional, Pennsylvania and Kentucky resolve exactly the reverse.
They hold those laws to be both highly proper and strictly constitutional. And now, Sir, how
does the honorable member propose to deal with this case? How does he relieve us from this
difficulty, upon any principle of his? His construction gets us into it; how does he propose
to get us out?

In Carolina, the tariff is a palpable, deliberate usurpation; Carolina, therefore, may nullify
it, and refuse to pay the duties. In Pennsylvania, it is both clearly constitutional and highly
expedient; and there the duties are to be paid. And yet we live under a government of uniform
laws, and under a Constitution too, which contains an express provision, as it happens, that
all duties shall be equal in all the States. Does not this approach absurdity?

If there be no power to settle such questions, independent of either of the States, is not
the whole Union a rope of sand? Are we not thrown back again, precisely, upon the old Confederation?

It is too plain to be argued. Four-and-twenty interpreters of constitutional law, each with
a power to decide for itself, and none with authority to bind anybody else, and this constitutional
law the only bond of their union! What is such a state of things but a mere connection during
pleasure, or, to use the phraseology of the times, during feeling? And that feeling, too, not
the feeling of the people, who established the Constitution, but the feeling of the State governments.

In another of the South Carolina addresses, having premised that the crisis requires "all the
concentrated energy of passion," an attitude of open resistance to the laws of the Union is
advised. Open resistance to the laws, then, is the constitutional remedy, the conservative
power of the State, which the South Carolina doctrines teach for the redress of political evils,
real or imaginary. And its authors further say, that, appealing with confidence to the Constitution
itself, to justify their opinions, they cannot consent to try their accuracy by the courts
of justice. In one sense, indeed, Sir, this is assuming an attitude of open resistance in favor
of liberty. But what sort of liberty? The liberty of establishing their own opinions, in defiance
of the opinions of all others; the liberty of judging and of deciding exclusively themselves,
in a matter in which others have as much right to judge and decide as they; the liberty of
placing their own opinions above the judgment of all others, above the laws, and above the
Constitution. This is their liberty, and this is the fair result of the proposition contended
for by the honorable gentleman. Or, it may be more properly said, it is identical with it,
rather than a result from it.

Resolutions, Sir, have been recently passed by the legislature of South Carolina. I need not
refer to them; they go no farther than the honorable gentleman himself has gone, and I hope
not so far. I content myself, therefore, with debating the matter with him.

And now, Sir, what I have first to say on this subject is, that at no time, and under no circumstances,
has New England, or any State in New England, or any respectable body of persons in New England,
or any public man of standing in New England, put forth such a doctrine as this Carolina doctrine.

The gentleman has found no case, he can find none, to support his own opinions by New England
authority. New England has studied the Constitution in other schools, and under other teachers.
She looks upon it with other regards, and deems more highly and reverently both of its just
authority and its utility and excellence. The history of her legislative proceedings may be
traced. The ephemeral effusions of temporary bodies, called together by the excitement of the
occasion, may be hunted up; they have been hunted up. The opinions and votes of her public
men, in and out of Congress, may be explored. It will all be in vain. The Carolina doctrine
can derive from her neither countenance nor support. She rejects it now; she always did reject
it; and till she loses her senses, she always will reject it. The honorable member has referred
to expressions on the subject of the embargo law, made in this place, by an honorable and venerable
gentleman, now favoring us with his presence. [24] He quotes that distinguished Senator as
saying, that, in his judgment, the embargo law was unconstitutional, and that therefore, in
his opinion, the people were not bound to obey it. That, Sir, is perfectly constitutional language.
An unconstitutional law is not binding; but then it does not rest with a resolution or a law
of a State legislature to decide whether an act of Congress be or be not constitutional. An
unconstitutional act of Congress would not bind the people of this District, although they
have no legislature to interfere in their behalf; and, on the other hand, a constitutional
law of Congress does bind the citizens of every State, although all their legislatures should
undertake to annul it by act or resolution. The venerable Connecticut Senator is a constitutional
lawyer, of sound principles and enlarged knowledge; a statesman practised and experienced,
bred in the company of Washington, and holding just views upon the nature of our governments.
He believed the embargo unconstitutional, and so did others; but what then? Who did he suppose
was to decide that question? The State legislatures? Certainly not. No such sentiment ever
escaped his lips.

Let us follow up, Sir, this New England opposition to the embargo laws; let us trace it, till
we discern the principle which controlled and governed New England throughout the whole course
of that opposition. We shall then see what similarity there is between the New England school
of constitutional opinions, and this modern Carolina school. The gentleman, I think, read a
petition from some single individual addressed to the legislature of Massachusetts, asserting
the Carolina doctrine; that is, the right of State interference to arrest the laws of the Union.
The fate of that petition shows the sentiment of the legislature. It met no favor. The opinions
of Massachusetts were very different. They had been expressed in 1798, in answer to the resolutions
of Virginia, and she did not depart from them, nor bend them to the times. Misgoverned, wronged,
oppressed, as she felt herself to be, she still held fast her integrity to the Union. The gentleman
may find in her proceedings much evidence of dissatisfaction with the measures of government,
and great and deep dislike to the embargo; all this makes the case so much the stronger for
her; for, notwithstanding all this dissatisfaction and dislike, she still claimed no right
to sever the bonds of the Union. There was heat, and there was anger in her political feeling.
Be it so; but neither her heat nor her anger betrayed, her into infidelity to the government.
The gentleman labors to prove that she disliked the embargo as much as South Carolina dislikes
the tariff, and expressed her dislike as strongly. Be it so; but did she propose the Carolina
remedy? did she threaten to interfere, by State authority, to annul the laws of the Union?
That is the question for the gentleman's consideration.

No doubt, Sir, a great majority of the people of New England conscientiously believed the embargo
law of 1807 unconstitutional; [25] as conscientiously, certainly, as the people of South Carolina
hold that opinion of the tariff. They reasoned thus: Congress has power to regulate commerce;
but here is a law, they said, stopping all commerce, and stopping it indefinitely. The law
is perpetual; that is, it is not limited in point of time, and must of course continue until
it shall be repealed by some other law. It is as perpetual, therefore, as the law against treason
or murder. Now, is this regulating commerce, or destroying it? Is it guiding, controlling,
giving the rule to commerce, as a subsisting thing or is it putting an end to it altogether?
Nothing is more certain, than that a majority in New England deemed this law a violation of
the Constitution. The very case required by the gentleman to justify State interference had
then arisen. Massachusetts believed this law to be "a deliberate, palpable, and dangerous exercise
of a power not granted by the Constitution." Deliberate it was, for it was long continued;
palpable she thought it, as no words in the Constitution gave the power, and only a construction,
in her opinion most violent, raised it; dangerous it was, since it threatened utter ruin to
her most important interests. Here, then, was a Carolina case. How did Massachusetts deal with
it? It was, as she thought, a plain, manifest, palpable violation of the Constitution, and
it brought ruin to her doors. Thousands of families, and hundreds of thousands of individuals,
were beggared by it. While she saw and felt all this, she saw and felt also, that, as a measure
of national policy, it was perfectly futile; that the country was no way benefited by that
which caused so much individual distress; that it was efficient only for the production of
evil, and all that evil inflicted on ourselves. In such a case, under such circumstances, how
did Massachusetts demean herself? Sir, she remonstrated, she memorialized, she addressed herself
to the general government, not exactly "with the concentrated energy of passion," but with
her own strong sense, and the energy of sober conviction. But she did not interpose the arm
of her own power to arrest the law, and break the embargo. Far from it. Her principles bound
her to two things; and she followed her principles, lead where they might. First, to submit
to every constitutional law of Congress, and secondly, if the constitutional validity of the
law be doubted, to refer that question to the decision of the proper tribunals. The first principle
is vain and ineffectual without the second. A majority of us in New England believed the embargo
law unconstitutional; but the great question was, and always will be in such cases, Who is
to decide this? Who is to judge between the people and the government? And, Sir, it is quite
plain, that the Constitution of the United States confers on the government itself, to be exercised
by its appropriate department, and under its own responsibility to the people, this power of
deciding ultimately and conclusively upon the just extent of its own authority. If this had
not been done, we should not have advanced a single step beyond the old Confederation.

