In the second place, a habit of imagining a future event or group of events will give play
to those forces which tend to transform a mental image. In other words, the habitual indulgence
of a certain anticipation tends to an illusory view, not only of the "when?" but also of the
"how?" of the future event. These transformations, due to subtle processes of emotion and intellect,
and reflecting the present habits of these, exactly resemble those by which a remembered event
becomes gradually transformed. Thus, we carry on our present habits of thought and feeling
into the remote future, foolishly imagining that at a distant period of life, or in greatly
altered circumstances, we shall desire and aim at the same things as now in our existing circumstances.
In close connection with this forward projection of our present selves, there betrays itself
a tendency to look on future events as answering to our present desires and aspirations. In
this way, we are wont to soften, beautify, and idealize the future, marking it off from the
hard matter-of-fact present.

The less like the future experience to our past experience, or the more remote the time anticipated,
the greater the scope for such imaginative transformation. And from this stage of fanciful
transformation of a future reality to the complete imaginative creation of such a reality,
the step is but a small one. Here we reach the full development of illusory expectation, that
which corresponds to hallucination in the region of sense-perception.

In order to understand these extreme forms of illusory expectation, it will be necessary to
say something more about the relation of imagination to anticipation in general. There are,
I conceive, good reasons for saying that any kind of vivid imagination tends to pass into a
semblance of an expectation of a coming personal experience, or an event that is about to happen
within the sphere of our own observation. It has long been recognized by writers, among whom
I may mention Dugald Stewart, that to distinctly imagine an event or object is to feel for
the moment a degree of belief in the corresponding reality. Now, I have already said that expectation
is probably a more natural and an earlier developed state of mind than memory. And so it seems
probable that any mental image which happens to take hold on the mind, if not recognized as
one of memory, or as corresponding to a fact in somebody else's experience, naturally assumes
the form of an expectation of a personal experience. The force of the expectation will vary
in general as the vividness and persistence of the mental image. Moreover, it follows, from
what has been said, that this force of imagination will determine what little time-character
we ever give to these wholly ungrounded illusions.

We see, then, that any process of spontaneous imagination will tend to beget some degree of
illusory expectation. And among the agencies by which such ungrounded imagination arises, the
promptings of feeling play the most conspicuous part. A present emotional excitement may give
to an imaginative anticipation, such as that of the prophetic enthusiast, a reality which approximates
to that of an actually perceived object. And even where this force of excitement is wanting,
a gentle impulse of feeling may suffice to beget an assurance of a distant reality. The unknown
recesses of the remote future offer, indeed, the field in which the illusory impulses of our
emotional nature have their richest harvest.

The recurring emotions, the ruling aspirations, find objects for themselves in this veiled
region. Feelings too shy to burst forth in unseemly anticipation of the immediate future, modestly
satisfy themselves with this remote prospect of satisfaction. And thus, there arises the half-touching,
half-amusing spectacle of men and women continually renewing illusory hopes, and continually
pushing the date of their realization further on as time progresses and brings no actual fruition.

So far I have spoken of such expectations as refer to future personal experience only. Growing
individual experience and the enlargement of this by the addition of social experience enable
us to frame a number of other beliefs more or less similar to the simple expectations just
dealt with. Thus, for example, I can forecast with confidence events which will occur in the
lives of others, and which I shall not even witness; or again, I may even succeed in dimly
descrying events, such as political changes or scientific discoveries, which will happen after
my personal experience is at an end. Once more, I can believe in something going on now at
some distant and even inaccessible point of the universe, and this appears to involve a conditional
expectation, and to mean that I am certain that I or anybody else would see the phenomenon,
if we could at this moment be transported to the spot.

All such previsions are supposed to be formed by a process of inference from personal experience,
including the trustworthiness of testimony. Even allowing, however, that this was so in the
first stages of the belief, it is plain that, by dint of frequent renewal, the expectation
would soon cease to be a process of inference, and acquire an apparently self-evident character.
This being so, if the expectation is not adequately grounded to start with, it is very likely
to develop into an illusion. And it is to be added that these permanent anticipations may have
their origin much more in our own wishes or emotional promptings than in fact and experience.
The mind undisciplined by scientific training is wont to entertain numerous beliefs of this
sort respecting what is now going on in unvisited parts of the world, or what will happen hereafter
in the distant future. The remote, and therefore obscure, in space and in time has always been
the favourite region for the projection of pleasant fancies.

Once more, besides these oblique kinds of expectation, I may form other seemingly simple beliefs,
to which the term expectation seems less clearly applicable. Thus, on waking in the morning
and finding the ground covered with snow, my imagination moves backwards, as in the process
of memory, and realizes the spectacle of the softly falling snow-flakes in the hours of the
night. The oral communication of others' experience, including the traditions of the race,
enables me to set out from any present point of time, and reconstruct complex chains of experience
of vast length lying beyond the bounds of my own personal recollection.

I need not here discuss what the exact nature of such beliefs is. J.S. Mill identifies them
with expectations. Thus, according to him, my belief in the nocturnal snowstorm is the assurance
that I should have seen it had I waited up during the night. So my belief in Cicero's oratory
resolves itself into the conviction that I should have heard Cicero under certain conditions
of time and place, which is identical with my expectation that I shall hear a certain speaker
to-morrow if I go to the House of Commons.[140] However this be, the thing to note is that
such retrospective beliefs, when once formed, tend to approximate in character to recollections.
This is true even of new beliefs in recent events directly made known by present objective
consequences or signs, as the snowstorm. For in this case there is commonly no conscious comparison
of the present signs with previously known signs, but merely a direct quasi-mnemonic passage
of mind from the present fact to its antecedent. And it is still more true of long-entertained
retrospective beliefs. When, for example, the original grounds of an historical hypothesis
are lost sight of, and after the belief has hardened and solidified by time, it comes to look
much more like a recollection than an expectation. As a matter of fact, we have seen, when
studying the illusions of memory, that our personal experience does become confused with that
of others. And one may say that all long-cherished retrospective beliefs tend to become assimilated
to recollections.

Here then, again, there seems to be room for illusion to arise. Even in the case of a recent
past event, directly made known by present objective signs, the mind is liable to err just
as in the case of forecasting an immediately approaching event. And such error has all the
force of an illusion: its contradiction is almost as great a shock as that of a recollection.
When, for example, I enter my house, and see a friend's card lying on the table, I so vividly
represent to myself the recent call of my friend, that when I learn the card is an old one
which has accidentally been put on the table, I experience a sense of disillusion very similar
to that which attends a contradicted perception. The early crude stages of physical science
abundantly illustrate the genesis of such illusions.

It may be added that if there be any feeling present in the mind at the time, the barest suggestion
of something having happened will suffice to produce the immediate assurance. Thus, an angry
person is apt to hastily accuse another of having done certain things on next to no evidence.
The love of the marvellous seems to have played a conspicuous part in building up and sustaining
the fanciful hypotheses which mark the dawn of physical science.

Verbal suggestion is a common mode of producing this semblance of a recollected event. By means
of the narrative style, it vividly suggests the idea that the events described belong to the
past, and excites the imagination to a retrospective construction of them as though they were
remembered events. Hence the power of works of fiction on the ordinary mind. Even when there
is no approach to an illusion of perception, or to one of memory in the strict sense, the reading
of a work of fiction begets at the moment a retrospective belief that has a certain resemblance
to a recollection.

All such illusions as those just illustrated, if not afterwards corrected, tend to harden into
yet more distinctly "intuitive" errors. Thus, for example, one of the crude geological hypotheses,
of which Sir Charles Lyell tells us,[141] would, by the mere fact of being kept before the
mind, tend to petrify into a hard fixed belief. And this process of hardening is seen strikingly
illustrated in the case of traditional errors, especially when these fall in with our own emotional
propensities. Our habitual representations of the remote historical past are liable to much
the same kind of error as our recollections of early personal experience. The wrong statements
of others and the promptings of our own fancies may lead in the first instance to a filling
up of the remote past with purely imaginary shapes. Afterwards the particular origin of the
belief is forgotten, and the assurance assumes the aspect of a perfectly intuitive conviction.
The hoary traditional myths respecting the golden age, and so on, and the persistent errors
of historians under the sway of a strong emotional bias, illustrate such illusions.

So much as to simple illusions of belief, or such as involve single representations only. Let
us now pass to compound illusions, which involve a complex group of representations.

B. Compound Illusory Belief.

A familiar example of a compound belief is the belief in a permanent or persistent individual
object of a certain character. Such an idea, whatever its whole meaning may be--and this is
a disputed point in philosophy--certainly seems to include a number of particular representations,
corresponding to direct personal recollections, to the recollections of others, and to numerous
anticipations of ourselves and of others. And if the object be a living creature endowed with
feelings, our idea of it will contain, in addition to these represented perceptions of ourselves
or of others, a series of represented insights, namely, such as correspond to the inner experience
of the being, so far as this is known or imagined.

It would thus seem that the idea which we habitually carry about with us respecting a complex
individual object is a very composite idea. In order to see this more fully, let us inquire
into what is meant by our belief in a person. My idea of a particular friend contains, among
other things, numbers of vague representations of his habitual modes of feeling and acting,
and numbers of still more vague expectations of how he will or might feel and act in certain
circumstances.

Now, it is plain that such a composite idea must have been a very slow growth, involving, in
certain stages of its formation, numerous processes of inference or quasi-inference from the
past to the future. But in process of time these elements fuse inseparably: the directly known
and the inferred no longer stand apart in my mind; my whole conception of the individual as
he has been, is, and will be, seems one indivisible cognition; and this cognition is so firmly
fixed and presents itself so instantaneously to the mind when I think of the object, that it
has all the appearance of an intuitive conviction.

If this is a fairly accurate description of the structure of these compound representations
and of their attendant beliefs, it is easy to see how many openings for error they cover. To
begin with, my representation of so complex a thing as a concrete personality must always be
exceedingly inadequate and fragmentary. I see only a few facets of the person's many-sided
mind and character. And yet, in general, I am not aware of this, but habitually identify my
representation with the totality of the object.

More than this, a little attention to the process by which these compound beliefs arise will
disclose the fact that this apparently adequate representation of another has arisen in part
by other than logical processes. If the blending of memory and expectation were simply a mingling
of facts with correct inferences from these, it might not greatly matter; but it is something
very different from this. Not only has our direct observation of the person been very limited,
even that which we have been able to see has not been perfectly mirrored in our memory. It
has already been remarked that recollection is a selective process, and this truth is strikingly
illustrated in the growth of our enduring representations of things. What stamps itself on
my memory is what surprised me or what deeply interested me at the moment. And then there are
all the risks of mnemonic illusion to be taken into account as well. Thus, my idea of a person,
so far even as it is built up on a basis of direct personal recollection, is essentially a
fragmentary and to some extent a misleading representation.

Nor is this all. My habitual idea of a person is a resultant of forces of memory conjoined
with other forces. Among these are to be reckoned the influence of illusory perception or insight,
my own and that of others. The amount of misinterpretation of the words and actions of a single
human being during the course of a long acquaintance must be very considerable. To these must
be added the effect of erroneous single expectations and reconstructions of past experiences,
in so far as these have not been distinctly contradicted and dissipated. All these errors,
connected with single acts of observing or inferring the feelings and doings of another, have
their effect in distorting the subsequent total representation of the person.

Finally, we must include a more distinct ingredient of active illusion, namely, all the complex
effects of the activity of imagination as led, not by fact and experience, but by feeling and
desire. Our permanent idea of another reflects all that we have fondly imagined the person
capable of doing, and thus is made up of an ideal as well as a real actually known personality.
And this result of spontaneous imagination must be taken to include the ideals entertained
by others who are likely to have influenced us by their beliefs.[142]

Enough has probably been said to show how immensely improbable it is that our permanent cognition
of so complex an object as a particular human being should be at all an accurate representation
of the reality, how much of the erroneous is certain to get mixed up with the true. And this
being so, we may say that our apparently simple direct cognition of a given person, our assurance
of what he is and will continue to be, is to some extent illusory.

Illusion of Self-Esteem.

Let us now pass to another case of compound representation, where the illusory element is still
more striking. I refer to the idea of self which each of us habitually carries about with him.
Every man's opinion of himself, as a whole, is a very complex mental product, in which facts
known by introspection no doubt play a part, but probably only a very subordinate part. It
is obvious, from what has been said about the structure of our habitual representations of
other individuals, that our ordinary representation of ourselves will be tinged with that mass
of error which we have found to be connected with single acts of introspection, recollections
of past personal experience, and illusory single expectations of future personal experiences.
How large an opening for erroneous conviction here presents itself can only be understood by
a reference to certain deeply fixed impulses and feelings connected with, the very consciousness
of self, and favouring what I have marked off as active illusion. I shall try to show very
briefly that each man's intuitive persuasion of his own powers, gifts, or importance--in brief,
of his own particular value, contains, from the first, a palpable ingredient of active illusion.

Most persons, one supposes, have with more or less distinct consciousness framed a notion of
their own value, if not to the world generally, at least to themselves. And this notion, however
undefined it may be, is held to with a singular tenacity of belief. The greater part of mankind,
indeed, seem never to entertain the question whether they really possess points of excellence.
They assume it as a matter perfectly self-evident, and appear to believe in their vaguely conceived
worth on the same immediate testimony of consciousness by which they assure themselves of their
personal existence. Indeed, the conviction of personal consequence may be said to be a constant
factor in most men's consciousness. However restrained by the rules of polite intercourse,
it betrays its existence and its energy in innumerable ways. It displays itself most triumphantly
when the mind is suddenly isolated from other minds, when other men unite in heaping neglect
and contempt on the believer's head. In these moments he proves an almost heroic strength of
confidence, believing in himself and in his claims to careful consideration when all his acquaintance
are practically avowing their disbelief.

The intensity of this belief in personal value may be observed in very different forms. The
young woman who, quite independently of others' opinion, and even in defiance of it, cherishes
a conviction that her external attractions have a considerable value; the young man who, in
the face of general indifference, persists in his habit of voluble talk on the supposition
that he is conferring on his fellow-creatures the fruits of profound wisdom; and the man of
years whose opinion of his own social importance and moral worth is quite disproportionate
to the estimation which others form of his claims--these alike illustrate the force and pertinacity
of the belief.

There are, no doubt, many exceptions to this form of self-appreciation. In certain robust minds,
but little given to self-reflection, the idea of personal value rarely occurs. And then there
are timid, sensitive natures that betray a tendency to self-distrust of all kinds, and to an
undue depreciation of personal merit. Yet even here traces of an impulse to think well of self
will appear to the attentive eye, and one can generally recognize that this impulse is only
kept down by some other stronger force, as, for example, extreme sensitiveness to the judgment
of others, great conscientiousness, and so on. And however this be, it will be allowed that
the average man rates himself highly.

It is to be noticed that this persuasion of personal value or excellence is, in common, very
vague. A man may have a general sense of his own importance without in the least being able
to say wherein exactly his superiority lies. Or, to put it another way, he may have a strong
conviction that he stands high in the scale of morally deserving persons, and yet be unable
to define his position more nearly. Commonly, the conviction seems to be only definable as
an assurance of a superlative of which the positive and comparative are suppressed. At most,
his idea of his moral altitude resolves itself into the proposition, "I am a good deal better
than Mr. A. or Mr. B." Now, it is plain that in these intuitive judgments on his own excellence,
the man is making an assertion with respect, not only to inner subjective feelings which he
only can be supposed to know immediately, but also to external objective facts which are patent
to others, namely, to certain active tendencies and capabilities, to the direction of external
conduct in certain lines.[143] Hence, if the assertion is erroneous, it will be in plain contradiction
to others' perceptions of his powers or moral endowments. And this is what we actually find.
A man's self-esteem, in a large preponderance of cases, is plainly in excess of others' esteem
of him. What the man conceives himself to be differs widely from what others conceive him to be.

  "Oh wad some power the giftie gie us,
   To see oursels as others see us!"

Now, whence comes this large and approximately uniform discrepancy between our self-esteem
and others' esteem of us? By trying to answer this question we shall come to understand still
better the processes by which the most powerful forms of illusion are generated.

It is, I think, a matter of every-day observation that children manifest an apparently instinctive
disposition to magnify self as soon as the vaguest idea of self is reached. It is very hard
to define this feeling more precisely than by terming it a rudimentary sense of personal importance.
It may show itself in very different ways, taking now a more active form, as an impulse of
self-assertion, and a desire to enforce one's own will to the suppression of others' wills,
and at another time wearing the appearance of a passive emotion, an elementary form of amour
propre. And it is this feeling which forms the germ of the self-estimation of adults. For in
truth all attribution of value involves an element of feeling, as respect, and of active desire,
and the ascription of value to one's self is in its simplest form merely the expression of
this state of mind.

But how is it, it may be asked, that this feeling shows itself instinctively as soon as the
idea of self begins to arise in consciousness? The answer to this question is to be found,
I imagine, in the general laws of mental development. All practical judgments like that of
self-estimation are based on some feeling which is developed before it; and, again, the feeling
itself is based on some instinctive action which, in like manner, is earlier than the feeling.
Thus, for example, an Englishman's judgment that his native country is of paramount value springs
out of a long-existent sentiment of patriotism, which sentiment again may be regarded as having
slowly grown up about the half-blindly followed habit of defending and furthering the interests
of one's nation or tribe. In a similar way, one suspects, the feeling of personal worth, with
its accompanying judgment, is a product of a long process of instinctive action.

What this action is it is scarcely necessary to remind the reader. Every living organism strives,
or acts as if it consciously strove, to maintain its life and promote its well-being. The actions
of plants are clearly related to the needs of a prosperous existence, individual first and
serial afterwards. The movements of the lower animals have the same end. Thus, on the supposition
that man has been slowly evolved from lower forms, it is clear that the instinct of self-promotion
must be the deepest and most ineradicable element of his nature, and it is this instinct which
directly underlies the rudimentary sentiment of self-esteem of which we are now treating.

This instinct will appear, first of all, as the unreflecting organized habit of seeking individual
good, of aiming at individual happiness, and so of pushing on the action of the individual
will. This impulse shows itself in distinct form as soon as the individual is brought into
competition with another similarly constituted being. It is the force which displays itself
in all opposition and hostility, and it tends to limit and counteract the gregarious instincts
of the race. In the next place, as intelligence expands, this instinctive action becomes conscious
pursuit of an end, and at this stage the thing pursued attracts to itself a sentiment. The
individual now consciously desires his own happiness as contrasted with that of others, knowingly
aims at enlarging his own sphere of action to the diminution of others' spheres. Here we have
the nascent sentiment of self-esteem, on which all later judgments respecting individual importance
are, in part at least, founded.

Thus, we see that long before man had arrived at an idea of self there had been growing up
an emotional predisposition to think well of self. And in this way we may understand how it
is that this sentiment of self-esteem shows itself immediately and instinctively in the child's
mind as soon as its unfolding consciousness is strong enough to grasp the first rough idea
of personal existence. Far down, so to speak, below the surface of distinct consciousness,
in the intricate formation of ganglion-cell and nerve-fibre, the connections between the idea
of self and this emotion of esteem have been slowly woven through long ages of animal development.

Here, then, we seem to have the key to the apparently paradoxical fact that a man, with all
his superior means of studying his own feelings, commonly esteems himself, in certain respects
at least, less accurately than a good external observer would be capable of doing. In forming
an opinion of ourselves we are exposed to the full force of a powerful impulse of feeling.
This impulse, acting as a bias, enters more or less distinctly into our single acts of introspection,
into our attempts to recall our past doings, into our insights into the meaning of others'
words and actions as related to ourselves (forming the natural disposition to enjoy flattery),
and finally into our wild dreams as to our future achievements. It is thus the principal root
of that gigantic illusion of self-conceit, which has long been recognized by practical sense
as one of the greatest obstacles to social action; and by art as one of the most ludicrous
manifestations of human weakness.

If there are all these openings for error in the beliefs we go on entertaining respecting individual
things, including ourselves, there must be a yet larger number of such openings in those still
more compound beliefs which we habitually hold respecting collections or classes of things.
A single illusion of perception or of memory may suffice to give rise to a wholly illusory
belief in a class of objects, for example, ghosts. The superstitious beliefs of mankind abundantly
illustrate this complexity of the sources of error. And in the case of our every-day beliefs
respecting real classes of objects, these sources contribute a considerable quota of error.
We may again see this by examining our ordinary beliefs respecting our fellow-men.

A moment's consideration will show that our prevailing views respecting any section of mankind,
say our fellow-countrymen, or mankind at large, correspond at best to a very loose process
of reasoning. The accidents of our personal experience and opportunities of observation, the
traditions which coloured our first ideas, the influence of our dominant feelings in selecting
for attention and retention certain aspects of the complex object, and in idealizing this object,--these
sources of passive and active illusion, must, to say the least, have had as much to do with
our present solidified and seemingly "intuitive" knowledge as anything that can be called the
exercise of individual judgment and reasoning power.

The force of this observation and the proof that such widely generalized beliefs are in part
illusory, is seen in the fact that men of unlike experience and unlike temperament form such
utterly dissimilar views of the same object. Thus, as Mr. Spencer has shown,[144] in looking
at things national there may be not only a powerful patriotic bias at work in the case of the
vulgar Philistine, but also a distinctly anti-patriotic bias in the case of the over-fastidious
seeker after culture. And I need hardly add that the different estimates of mankind held with
equal assurance by the cynic, the misanthropist, and the philanthropic vindicator of his species,
illustrate a like diversity of the psychological conditions of belief.

Finally, illusion may enter into that still wider collection of beliefs which make up our ordinary
views of life and the world as a whole. Here there reflect themselves in the plainest manner
the accidents of our individual experience and the peculiar errors to which our intellectual
and emotional conformation disposes us. The world is for us what we feel it to be; and we feel
it to be the cause of our particular emotional experience. Just as we have found that our environment
helps to determine our idea of self and personal continuity, so, conversely, our inner experience,
our remembered or imagined joys and sorrows throw a reflection on the outer world, giving it
its degree of worth. Hence the contradictory, and consequently to some extent at least illusory,
views of the optimist and the pessimist, "intuitions" which, I have tried to show elsewhere,
are connected with deeply rooted habits of feeling, and are antecedent to all reasoned philosophic
systems.

If proof were yet wanted that these wide-embracing beliefs may to some extent be illusory,
it would be found in the fact that they can be distinctly coloured by a temporary mood or mental
tone. As I have more than once had occasion to remark, a feeling when present tends to colour
all the ideas of the time. And when out of sorts, moody, and discontented, a man is prone to
find a large objective cause of his dissatisfaction in a world out of joint and not moving
to his mind.

It is evident that all the permanent beliefs touched on in this chapter must constitute powerful
predispositions with respect to any particular act of perception, insight, introspection, or
recollection. In other words, these persistent beliefs, so far as individual or personal, are
but another name for those fixed habits of mind which, in the case of each one of us, constitute
our intellectual bias, and the source of the error known as personal equation. And it may be
added that, just as these erroneous beliefs existing in the shape of fixed prejudices constitute
a bias to new error, so they act as powerful resisting forces in relation to new truth and
the correction of error.

In comparing these illusions of belief with those of perception and memory, we cannot fail
to notice their greater compass or range, in other words, the greater extent of the region
of fact misrepresented. Even if they are less forcible and irresistible than these errors,
they clearly make up for this by the area which they cover.

Another thing to be observed with respect to these comprehensive beliefs is that where, as
here, so many co-operant conditions are at work, the whole amount of common objective agreement
is greatly reduced. In other words, individual peculiarities of intellectual conformation,
emotional temperament, and experience have a far wider scope for their influence in these beliefs
than they have in the case of presentative cognitions. At the same time, it is noteworthy that
error much more rapidly propagates itself here than in the case of our perceptions or recollections.
As we have seen, these beliefs all include much more than the results of the individual's own
experience. They offer a large field for the influence of personal ascendency, of the contagion
of sympathy, and of authority and tradition. As a consequence of this, the illusions of belief
are likely to be far more persistent than those of perception or of memory; for not only do
they lose that salutary process of correction which comparison with the experience of others
affords, but they may even be strengthened and upheld to some extent by such social influences.

And here the question might seem to obtrude itself, whether, in relation to such a fluctuating
mass of belief as that just reviewed, in which there appears to be so little common agreement,
we can correctly speak of anything as objectively determinable. If illusion and error as a
whole are defined by a reference to what is commonly held true and certain, what, it may be
asked, becomes of the so-called illusions of belief?

This question will have to be fully dealt with in the following chapter. Here it may be sufficient
to remark that amid all this apparent deviation of belief from a common standard of truth,
there is a clear tendency to a rational consensus. Thought, by disengaging what is really matter
of permanent and common cognition, both in the individual and still more in the class,[145]
and fixing this quantum of common cognition in the shape of accurate definitions and universal
propositions, is ever fighting against and restraining the impulses of individual imagination
towards dissociation and isolation of belief. And this same process of scientific control of
belief is ever tending to correct widespread traditional forms of error, and to erect a new
and better standard of common cognition.

This scientific regulation of belief only fails where the experiences which underlie the conceptions
are individual, variable, and subjective. Hence there is no definite common conception of the
value of life and of the world, just because the estimate of this value must vary with individual
circumstances, temperament, etc. All that can be looked for here in the way of a common standard
or norm is a rough average estimate. And this common-sense judgment serves practically as a
sufficient criterion of truth, at least in relation to such extreme one-sidedness of view as
approaches the abnormal, that is to say, one of the two poles of irrational exaltation, or
"joy-madness," and abject melancholy, which, appear among the phenomena of mental disease.[146]

CHAPTER XII.

RESULTS.

The foregoing study of illusions may not improbably have had a bewildering effect on the mind
of the reader. To keep the mental eye, like the bodily eye, for any time intently fixed on
one object is apt to produce a feeling of giddiness. And in the case of a subject like illusion,
the effect is enormously increased by the disturbing character of the object looked at. Indeed,
the first feeling produced by our survey of the wide field of illusory error might be expressed
pretty accurately by the despondent cry of the poet--

  "Alas! it is delusion all:
   The future cheats us from afar,
   Nor can we be what we recall,
   Nor dare we think on what we are."

It must be confessed that our study has tended to bring home to the mind the wide range of
the illusory and unreal in our intellectual life. In sense-perception, in the introspection
of the mind's own feelings, in the reading of others' feelings, in memory, and finally in belief,
we have found a large field for illusory cognition. And while illusion has thus so great a
depth in the individual mind, it has a no less striking breadth or extent in the collective
human mind. No doubt its grosser forms manifest themselves most conspicuously in the undisciplined
mind of the savage and the rustic; yet even the cultivated mind is by no means free from its
control. In truth, most of the illusions illustrated in this work are such as can be shared
in by all classes of mind.

In view of this wide far-reaching area of ascertained error, the mind naturally asks, What
are the real limits of illusory cognition, and how can we be ever sure of having got beyond
them? This question leads us on to philosophical problems of the greatest consequence, problems
which can only be very lightly touched in this place. Before approaching these, let us look
back a little more carefully and gather up our results, reflect on the method which we have
been unconsciously adopting, and inquire how far this scientific mode of procedure will take
us in determining what is the whole range of illusory cognition.

We have found an ingredient of illusion mixed up with all the popularly recognized forms of
immediate knowledge. Yet this ingredient is not equally conspicuous in all cases. First of
all, illusion varies very considerably in its degree of force and persistence. Thus, in general,
a presentative illusion is more coercive than a representative; an apparent reality present
to the mind is naturally felt to be more indubitable than one absent and only represented.
On the other hand, a representative illusion is often more enduring than a presentative, that
is to say, less easily found out. It is to be added that a good deal of illusion is only partial,
there being throughout an under-current of rational consciousness, a gentle play of self-criticism,
which keeps the error from developing into a perfect self-delusion. This remark applies not
only to the innocent illusions of art, but also to many of our every-day illusions, both presentative
and representative. In many cases, indeed, as, for example, in looking at a reflection in a
mirror, the illusion is very imperfect, remaining in the nascent stage.

Again, a little attention to the facts here brought together will show that the proportion
of illusory to real knowledge is far from being the same in each class of immediate or quasi-immediate
cognition. Thus, with respect to the great distinction between presentative and representative
knowledge, it is to be observed that, in so far as any act of cognition is, strictly speaking,
presentative, it does not appear to admit of error. The illusions of perception are connected
with the representative side of the process, and are numerous just because this is so extensive.
On the other hand, in introspection, where the scope of independent representation is so limited,
the amount of illusion is very inconsiderable, and may in practice be disregarded. So again,
to take a narrower group of illusions, we find that in the recalling of distant events the
proportion of error is vastly greater than in the recalling of near events.

So much as to the extent of illusion as brought to light by our preceding study. Let us now
glance at the conclusions obtained respecting its nature and its causes.

Causes of Illusion.

Looking at illusion as a whole, and abstracting from the differences of mental mechanism in
the processes of perception, memory, etc., we may say that the rationale or mode of genesis
of illusion is very much the same throughout. Speaking broadly, one may describe all knowledge
as a correspondence of representation with fact or experience, or as a stable condition of
the representation which cannot be disturbed by new experiences. It does not matter, for our
present purpose, whether the fact represented is supposed to be directly present, as in presentative
cognition; or to be absent, either as something past or future, or finally as a "general fact,"
that is to say, the group of facts (past and future) embodied in a universal proposition.[147]

In general this accordance between our representations and facts is secured by the laws of
our intellectual mechanism. It follows from the principles of association that our simple experiences,
external and internal, will tend to reflect themselves in perception, memory, expectation,
and general belief, in the very time-connections in which they actually occur. To put it briefly,
facts which occur together will in general be represented together, and they will be the more
perfectly co-represented in proportion to the frequency of this concurrence.

Illusion, as distinguished from correct knowledge, is, to put it broadly, deviation of representation
from fact. This is due in part to limitations and defects in the intellectual mechanism itself,
such as the imperfections of the activities of attention, discrimination, and comparison, in
relation to what is present. Still more is it due to the control of our mental processes by
association and habit. These forces, which are at the very root of intelligence, are also,
in a sense, the originators of error. Through the accidents of our experience or the momentary
condition of our reproductive power, representations get wrongly grouped with presentations
and with one another; wrongly grouped, that is to say, according to a perfect or ideal standard,
namely, that the grouping should always exactly agree with the order of experience as a whole,
and the force of cohesion be proportionate to the number of the conjunctions of this experience.

This great source of error has been so abundantly illustrated under the head of Passive Illusions
that I need not dwell on it further. It is plain that a passive error of perception, or of
expectation, is due in general to a defective grouping of elements, to a grouping which answers,
perhaps, to the run of the individual's actual experience, but not to a large and complete
common experience.[148] Similarly, an illusory general belief is plainly a welding together
of elements (here concepts, answering to innumerable representative images) in disagreement
with the permanent connections of experience. Even a passive illusion of memory, in so far
as it involves a rearrangement of successive representations, shows the same kind of defect.

In the second place, this incorrect grouping maybe due, not to defects in attention and discrimination,
combined with insufficiently grounded association, but to the independent play of constructive
imagination and the caprices of feeling. This is illustrated in what I have called Active Illusions,
whether the excited perceptions and the hallucinations of sense, or the fanciful projections
of memory or of expectation. Here we have a force directly opposed to that of experience. Active
illusion arises, not through the imperfections of the intellectual mechanism, but through a
palpable interference with this mechanism. It is a regrouping of elements which simulates the
form of a suggestion by experience, but is, in reality, the outcome of the individual mind's
extra-intellectual impulses.

We see, then, that, in spite of obvious differences in the form, the process in all kinds of
immediate cognition is fundamentally identical. It is essentially a bringing together of elements,
whether similar or dissimilar and associated by a link of contiguity, and a viewing of these
as connected parts, of a whole; it is a process of synthesis. And illusion, in all its forms,
is bad grouping or carelessly performed synthesis. This holds good even of the simplest kinds
of error in which a presentative element is wrongly classed; and it holds good of those more
conspicuous errors of perception, memory, expectation, and compound belief, in which representations
connect themselves in an order not perfectly answering to the objective order.

This view of the nature and causes of illusion is clearly capable of being expressed in physical
language. Bad grouping of psychical elements is equivalent to imperfect co-ordination of their
physical, that is to say, nervous, conditions, imperfect in the evolutionist's sense, as not
exactly according with external relations. So far as illusions of suggestion (passive illusions)
are concerned, the error is connected with organized tendencies, due to a limited action of
experience. On the other hand, illusions of preconception (active illusions) usually involve
no such deeply fixed or permanent organic connections, but merely a temporary confluence of
nerve-processes.[149] The nature of the physical process is best studied in the case of errors
of sense-perception. Yet we may hypothetically argue that even in the case of the most complex
errors, as those of memory and of belief, there is implied a deviation in the mode of connection
of nervous structures (whether the connection be permanent or temporary) from the external
order of facts.

And now we are in a position to see whether illusion is ultimately distinguishable from other
modes of error, namely, those incident to conscious processes of reasoning. It must have been
plain to an attentive reader throughout our exposition that, in spite of our provisional distinction,
no sharp line can be drawn between much of what, on the surface, looks like immediate knowledge,
and consciously derived or inferred knowledge. On its objective side, reasoning may be roughly
defined as a conscious transition of mind from certain facts or relations of facts to other
facts or relations recognized as similar. According to this definition, a fallacy would be
a hasty, unwarranted transition to new cases not identical with the old. And a good part of
immediate knowledge is fundamentally the same, only that here, through the exceptional force
of association and habit, the transition is too rapid to be consciously recognized. Consequently,
illusion becomes identified at bottom with fallacious inference: it may be briefly described
as collapsed inference. Thus, illusory perception and expectation are plainly a hasty transition
of mind from old to new, from past to present, conjunctions of experience.[150] And, as we
have seen, an illusory general belief owes its existence to a coalescence of representations
of known facts or connections with products of imagination which simulate the appearance of
inferences from these facts.

In the case of memory, in so far as it is not aided by reasoning from present signs, there
seems to be nothing like a movement of inference. It is evident, indeed, that memory is involved
in and underlies every such transition of thought. Illusions of memory illustrate rather a
process of wrong classing, that is to say, of wrongly identifying the present mental image
with past fact, which is the initial step in all inference. In this way they closely resemble
those slight errors of perception which are due to erroneous classing of sense-impressions.
But since the intellectual process involved in assimilating mental elements is very similar
to that implied in assimilating complex groups of such elements, we may say that even in these
simple kinds of error there is something which resembles a wrong classing of relations, something,
therefore, which approximates in character to a fallacy.

By help of this brief review of the nature and causes of illusion, we see that in general it
may be spoken of as deviation of individual from common experience. This applies to passive
illusion in so far as it follows from the accidents of individual experience, and it still
more obviously applies to active illusion as due to the vagaries of individual feeling and
constructive imagination. We might, perhaps, characterize all illusion as partial view, partial
both in the sense of being incomplete, and in the other sense of being that to which the mind
by its peculiar predispositions inclines. This being so, we may very roughly describe all illusion
as abnormal. Just as hallucination, the most signal instance of illusion, is distinctly on
the border-land of healthy and unhealthy mental life; just as dreams are in the direction of
such unhealthy mental action; so the lesser illusions of memory and so on are abnormal in the
sense that they imply a departure from a common typical mode of intellectual action.

It is plain, indeed, that this is the position we have been, taking up throughout our discussion
of illusion. We have assumed that what is common and normal is true, or answers to what is
objectively real. Thus, in dealing with errors of perception, we took for granted that the
common percept--meaning by this what is permanent in the individual and the general experience--is
at the same time the true percept. So in discussing the illusions of memory we estimated objective
time by the judgment of the average man, free from individual bias, and apart from special
circumstances favourable to error. Similarly, in the case of belief, true belief was held to
be that which men in general, or in the long run, or on the average, hold true, as distinguished
from what the individual under variable and accidental influences holds true. And even in the
case of introspection we found that true cognition resolved itself into a consensus or agreement
as to certain psychical facts.

Criterion of Illusion.

Now, it behoves us here to examine this assumption, with the view of seeing how far it is perfectly
sound. For it may be that what is commonly held true does not in all cases strictly answer
to the real, in which case our idea of illusion would have to be extended so as to include
certain common beliefs. This question was partly opened up at the close of the last chapter.
It will be found that the full discussion of it carries us beyond the scientific point of view
altogether. For the present, however, let us see what can be said about it from that standpoint
of positive science to which we have hitherto been keeping.

Now, if by common be meant what has been shared by all minds or the majority of minds up to
a particular time, a moment's inspection of the process of correcting illusion will show that
science assumes the possibility of a common illusion. In the history of discovery, the first
assault on an error was the setting up of the individual against the society. The men who first
dared to say that the sun did not move round the earth found to their cost what it was to fly
in the face of a common, though illusory, perception of the senses.[151]

If, however, by common be understood what is permanently and unshakably held true by men in
proportion as their minds become enlightened, then science certainly does assume the truth
of common perception and belief. Thus, the progress of the physical sciences may be described
as a movement towards a new, higher, and more stable consensus of ideas and beliefs. In point
of fact, the truths accepted by men of science already form a body of common belief for those
who are supposed by all to have the means of testing the value of their convictions. And the
same applies to the successive improvements in the conceptions of the moral sciences, for example,
history and psychology. Indeed, the very meaning of science appears to be a body of common
cognition to which all minds converge in proportion to their capabilities and opportunities
of studying the particular subject-matter concerned.

Not only so, from a strictly scientific point of view it might seem possible to prove that
common cognition, as defined above, must in general be true cognition. I refer here to the
now familiar method of the evolutionist.

According to this doctrine, which is a scientific method in so far as it investigates the historical
developments of mind or the order of mental phenomena in time, cognition may be viewed as a
part of the result of the interaction of external agencies and the organism, as an incident
of the great process of adaptation, physical and psychical, of organism to environment. In
thus looking at cognition, the evolutionist is making the assumption which all science makes,
namely, that correct views are correspondences between internal (mental) relations and external
(physical) relations, incorrect views disagreements between these relations. From this point
of view he may proceed to argue that the intellectual processes must tend to conform to external
facts. All correspondence, he tells us, means fitness to external conditions and practical
efficiency, all want of correspondence practical incompetence. Consequently, those individuals
in whom the correspondence was more complete and exact would have an advantage in the struggle
for existence and so tend to be preserved. In this way the process of natural selection, by
separately adjusting individual representations to actualities, would make them converge towards
a common meeting-point or social standard of true cognition. That is to say, by eliminating
or at least greatly circumscribing the region of individual illusion, natural selection would
exclude the possibility of a persistent common illusion.

Not only so, the evolutionist may say that this coincidence between common beliefs and true
beliefs would be furthered by social as well as individual competition. A community has an
advantage in the struggle with other communities when it is distinguished by the presence of
the conditions of effective co-operation, such as mutual confidence. Among these conditions
a body of true knowledge seems to be of the first importance, since conjoint action always
presupposes common beliefs, and, to be effective action, implies that these beliefs are correct.
Consequently, it may be argued, the forces at work in the action of man on man, of society
on the individual, in the way of assimilating belief, must tend, in the long run, to bring
about a coincidence between representations and facts. Thus, in another way, natural selection
would help to adjust our ideas to realities, and to exclude the possibility of anything like
a permanent common error.

Yet once more, according to Mr. Herbert Spencer, the tendency to agreement between our ideas
and the environment would be aided by what he calls the direct process of adaptation. The exercise
of a function tends to the development of that function. Thus, our acts of perception must
become more exact by mere repetition. So, too, the representations and concepts growing out
of perceptions must tend to approximate to external facts by the direct action of the environment
on our physical and psychical organism; for external relations which are permanent will, in
the long run, stamp themselves on our nervous and mental structure more deeply and indelibly
than relations which are variable and accidental.

It would seem, from all this, that so long as we are keeping to the scientific point of view,
that is to say, taking for granted that there is something objectively real answering to our
perceptions and conceptions, the question of the possibility of a universal or (permanently)
common illusion does not arise. Yet a little more reflection will show us that it may arise
in a way. So far as the logical sufficiency of the social consensus or common belief is accepted
as scientifically proved, it is open to suspicion on strictly scientific grounds. The evolutionist's
proof involves one or two assumptions which are not exactly true.

In the first place, it is not strictly correct to say that all illusion involves a practical
unfitness to circumstances. At the close of our investigation of particular groups of illusion,
for example, those of perception and memory, it was pointed out that many of the errors reviewed
were practically harmless, being either momentary and evanescent, or of such a character as
not to lead to injurious action. And now, by glancing back over the field of illusion as a
whole, we may see the same thing. The day-dreams in which some people are apt to indulge respecting
the remote future have little effect on their conduct. So, too, a man's general view of the
world is often unrelated to his daily habits of life. It seems to matter exceedingly little,
in general, whether a person take up the geocentric or the heliocentric conception of the cosmic
structure, or even whether he adopt an optimistic or pessimistic view of life and its capabilities.

So inadequate, indeed, does the agency of natural selection seem to be to eliminate illusion,
that it may even be asked whether its tendency may not be sometimes to harden and fix rather
than to dissolve and dissipate illusory ideas and beliefs. It will at once occur to the reader
that the illusion of self-esteem, discussed in the last chapter, may have been highly useful
as subserving individual self-preservation. In a similar way, it has been suggested by Schopenhauer
that the illusion of the lover owes its force and historical persistence to its paramount utility
for the preservation of the species. And to pass from a recurring individual to a permanently
common belief, it is maintained by the same pessimist and his followers that what they regard
as the illusion of optimism, namely, the idea that human life as a whole is good, grows out
of the individual's irrational love of life, which is only the same instinctive impulse of
self-preservation appearing as conscious desire. Once more, it has been suggested that the
belief in free-will, even if illusory, would be preserved by the process of evolution, owing
to its paramount utility in certain stages of moral development. All this seems to show at
least the possibility of a kind of illusion which would tend to perpetuate itself, and to appear
as a permanent common belief.

Now, so far as this is the case, so far as illusion is useful or only harmless, natural selection
cannot, it is plain, be counted on to weed it out, keeping it within the narrow limits of the
exceptional and individual. Natural selection gets rid of what is harmful only, and is indifferent
to what is practically harmless.

It may, however, still be said that the process of direct adaptation must tend to establish
such a consensus of true belief. Now, I do not wish for a moment to dispute that the growth
of intelligence by the continual exercise of its functions tends to such a consensus: this
is assumed to be the case by everybody. What I want to point out is that there is no scientific
proof of this position.

The correspondence of internal to external relations is obviously limited by the modes of action
of the environment on the organism, consequently by the structure of the organism itself. Scientific
men are familiar with the idea that there may be forces in the environment which are practically
inoperative on the organism, there being no corresponding mode of sensibility. And even if
it be said that our present knowledge of the material world, including the doctrine of the
conservation of energy, enables us to assert that there is no mode of force wholly unknown
to us, it can still be contended that the environment may, for aught we know, be vastly more
than the forces of which, owing to the nature of our organism, we know it to be composed. In
short, since, on the evolution theory viewed as a scientific doctrine, the real external world
does not directly mirror itself in our minds, but only indirectly brings our perceptions and
representations into adjustment by bringing into adjustment the nervous organism with which
they are somehow connected, it is plain that we cannot be certain of adequately apprehending
the external reality which is here assumed to exist.

Science, then, cannot prove, but must assume the coincidence between permanent common intuitions
and objective reality. To raise the question whether this coincidence is perfect or imperfect,
whether all common intuitions known to be persistent are true or whether there are any that
are illusory, is to pass beyond the scientific point of view to another, namely, the philosophic.
Thus, our study of illusion naturally carries us on from scientific to philosophic reflection.
Let me try to make this still more clear.

Transition to Philosophic View.

All science makes certain assumptions which it never examines. Thus, the physicist assumes
that when we experience a sensation we are acted on by some pre-existing external object which
is the cause, or at least one condition, of the sensation. While resolving the secondary qualities
of light, sound, etc., into modes of motion, while representing the object very differently
from the unscientific mind, he agrees with this in holding to the reality of something external,
regarding this as antecedent to and therefore as independent of the particular mind which receives
the sense-impression. Again, he assumes the uniformity of nature, the universality of the causal
relation, and so on.

Similarly, the modern psychologist, when confining himself within the limits of positive science,
and treating mind phenomenally or empirically, or, in other words, tracing the order of mental
states in time and assigning their conditions, takes for granted much the same as physical
science does. Thus, as our foregoing analysis of perception shows, he assumes that there is
an external cause of our sensations, that there are material bodies in space, which act on
our sense-organs and so serve as the condition of our sense-impressions. More than this, he
regards, in the way that has been illustrated in this work, the percept itself, in so far as
it is a process in time, as the normal result of the action of such external agents on our
nerve-structures, in other words, as the effect of such action in the case of the healthy and
perfect nervous organism with the average organized dispositions, physical and psychical; in
which case he supposes the percept to correspond, in certain respects at least, with the external
cause as made known by physical science. And, on the other hand, he looks on a false or illusory
percept as arising in another way not involving, as its condition, the pre-existence of a corresponding
material body or physical agent. And in this view of perception, as of other mental phenomena,
the psychologist clearly takes for granted the principle that all mental events conform to
the law of causation. Further, he assumes that the individual mind is somehow, in a way which
it is not his province to inquire into, one and the same throughout, and so on.

The doctrine of evolution, too, in so far as scientific--that is, aiming at giving an account
of the historical and pre-historical developments of the collective mind in time--agrees with
psychology in making like assumptions. Thus, it conceives an external agency (the environment)
as the cause of our common sensations and perceptions. That is to say, it represents the external
world as somehow antecedent to, and so apparently independent of, the perceptions which are
adjusted to it. And all this shows that science, while removed from vulgar unenlightened opinion,
takes sides with popular thought in assuming the truth of certain fundamental ideas or so-called
intuitive beliefs, into the exact meaning of which it does not inquire.

When the meaning of these assumptions is investigated, we pass out of the scientific into the
philosophic domain. Philosophy has to critically investigate the data of popular thought and
of science. It has to discover exactly what is implied in these fundamental principles. Then
it has to test their value by erecting a final criterion of truth, by probing the structure
of cognition to the bottom, and determining the proper organ of certain or accurate knowledge;
or, to put it another way, it has to examine what is meant by reality, whether there is anything
real independently of the mind, and if so, what. In doing this it inquires not only what common
sense means by its object-world clothed in its variegated garment of secondary qualities, its
beauty, and so on, but also what physical science means by its cosmic mechanism of sensible
and extra-sensible matter in motion: whether there is any kind of objective reality belonging
to the latter which does not also belong to the former; and how the two worlds are related
one to another. That is to say, he asks whether the bodies in space assumed to exist by the
physicist as the antecedent conditions of particular sensations and percepts are independent
of mind and perception generally.[152]

In doing all this, philosophy is theoretically free to upset as much of popular belief of the
persistent kind as it likes. Nor can science find fault with it so long as it keeps to its
own sphere, and does not directly contradict any truth which science, by the methods proper
to it, is able to establish. Thus, for example, if philosophy finds that there is nothing real
independently of mind, science will be satisfied so long as it finds a meaning for its assumed
entities, such as space, external things, and physical causes.[153]

The student of philosophy need not be told that these imposing-looking problems respecting
cognition, making, up what the Germans call the "Theory of Cognition," and the cognate problem
respecting the nature of reality, are still a long way from being settled. To-day, as in the
days of Plato and Aristotle, are argued, in slightly altered forms, the vexed questions, What
is true cognition? Is it a mere efflux from sensation, a passive conformity of representation
to sensation (sensualism or empiricism)? or is it, on the other hand, a construction of active
thought, involving certain necessary forms of intelligence (rationalism or intuitivism)?

Again, how are we to shape to ourselves real objective existence? Is it something wholly independent
of the mind (realism)? and if so, is this known to be what we--meaning here common people and
men of science alike--represent it as being (natural realism), or something different (transfigured
realism)? Or is it, on the contrary, something involving mind (idealism)? and if so, is it
a strictly phenomenal distinction within our conscious experience (empirical idealism, phenomenalism),
or one of the two poles of subject and object constituted by every act of thought (rational
idealism)? These are some of the questions in philosophy which still await their final answer.

Philosophy being thus still a question and not a solution, we need not here trouble ourselves
about its problems further than to remark on their close connection with our special subject,
the study of illusion.

Our brief reference to some of the principal inquiries of philosophy shows that it tends to
throw doubt on things which the unreflecting popular mind holds to be indubitable. Different
schools of philosophy have shown themselves unequally concerned about these so-called intuitive
certainties. In general it may be said that philosophy, though, as I have remarked, theoretically
free to set up its own standard of certainty, has in practice endeavoured to give a meaning
to, and to find a justification for the assumptions or first principles of science. On the
other hand, it has not hesitated, when occasion required, to make very light of the intuitive
beliefs of the popular mind as interpreted by itself. Thus, rationalists of the Platonic type
have not shrunk from pronouncing individual impressions and objects illusory, an assertion
which certainly seems to be opposed to the assumptions of common sense, if not to those of
science. On the other hand, the modern empirical or association school is quite ready to declare
that the vulgar belief in an external world, so far as it represents this as independent of
mind,[154] is an illusion; that the so-called necessary beliefs respecting identity, uniformity,
causation, etc., are not, strictly speaking, necessary; and so on. And in these ways it certainly
seems to come into conflict with popular convictions, or intuitive certainties, as they present
themselves to the unreflecting intelligence.

Philosophy seems, then, to be a continuation of that process of detecting illusion with which
science in part concerns itself. Indeed, it is evident that our special study has a very close
connection with the philosophic inquiry. What philosophy wants is something intuitively certain
as its starting-point, some point d'appui for its construction. The errors incident to the
process of reasoning do not greatly trouble it, since these can, in general, be guarded against
by the rules of logic. But error in the midst of what, on the face of it, looks like intuitive
knowledge naturally raises the question, Is there any kind of absolutely certain cognition,
any organ for the accurate perception of truth? And this intimate relation between the scientific
and the philosophic consideration of illusion is abundantly illustrated in the history of philosophy.
The errors of sense, appearing in a region which to the vulgar seems so indubitable, have again
and again set men thinking on the question, "What is the whole range of illusion? Is perception,
as popularly understood, after all, a big hallucination? Is our life a dream?"[155]

On the other hand, if our study of the wide range of illusion is fitted to induce that temper
of mind which is said to be the beginning of philosophy, that attitude of universal doubt expressed
by Descartes in his famous maxim, De omnibus dubitandum, a consideration of the process of
correction is fitted to lead the mind on to the determination of the conditions of accurate
knowledge. It is evident, indeed, that the very conception of an illusion implies a criterion
of certainty: to call a thing illusory, is to judge it by reference to some accepted standard
of truth.

The mental processes involved in detecting, resisting, and overcoming illusion, are a very
interesting subject for the psychologist, though we have not space here to investigate them
fully. Turning to presentative, and more particularly sense-illusions, we find that the detection
of an illusion takes place now by an appeal from one sense to another, for example, from sight
to touch, by way of verification;[156] now (as in Myer's experiment) by a reference from sense
and presentation altogether to representation or remembered experience and a process of reasoning;
and now, (as in the illusions of art) conversely, by a transition of mind from what is suggested
to the actual sense-impression of the moment. In the sphere of memory, again, illusion is determined,
as such, now by attending more carefully to the contents of memory, now by a process of reasoning
from some presentative cognition. Finally, errors in our comprehensive general representations
of things are known to be such partly by reasoning from other conceptions, and partly by a
continual process of reduction of representation to presentation, the general to the particular.
I may add that the correction of illusion by an act of reflection and reasoning, which brings
the part into consistent relation with the whole of experience, includes throughout the comparison
of the individual with the collective or social experience.[157]

We may, perhaps, roughly summarize these operations by saying that they consist in the control
of the lower automatic processes (association or suggestion) by the higher activities of conscious
will. This activity of will takes the form now of an effort of attention to what is directly
present to the mind (sense-impression, internal feeling, mnemonic image, etc.), now of conscious
reflection, judgment, and reasoning, by which the error is brought into relation to our experience
as a whole, individual and collective.

It is for the philosopher to investigate the inmost nature of these operations as they exhibit
themselves in our every-day individual experience, and in the large intellectual movements
of history. In no better way can he arrive at what common sense and science regard as certain
cognition, at the kinds of knowledge on which they are wont to rely most unhesitatingly.

There is one other relation of our subject to philosophic problems which I have purposely left
for final consideration. Our study has consisted mainly in the psychological analysis of illusions
supposed to be known or capable of being known as such. Now, the modern association school
professes to be able to resolve some of the so-called intuitions of common sense into elements
exactly similar to those into which we have here been resolving what are acknowledged by all
as illusions. This fact would seem to point to a close connection between the scientific study
of illusion and the particular view of these fundamental intuitions taken by one philosophic
school. In order to see whether there is really this connection, we must reflect a little further
on the nature of the method which we have been pursuing.

I have already had occasion to rise the expression "scientific psychology," or psychology as
a positive science, and the meaning of this expression must now be more carefully considered.
As a positive science, psychology is limited to the function of analyzing mental states, and
of tracing their origin in previous and more simple mental states. It has, strictly speaking,
nothing to do with the question of the legitimacy or validity of any mental act.

Take a percept, for example. Psychology can trace its parentage in sensation, the mode in which
it has come by its contents in the laws of association. But by common consent, a percept implies
a presentative apprehension of an object now present to sense. Is this valid or illusory? This
question psychology, as science, does not attempt to answer. It would not, I conceive, answer
it even if it were able to make out that the whole mental content in the percept can be traced
back to elementary sensations and their combinations. For the fact that in the chemistry of
mind elements may combine in perfectly new forms does not disprove that the forms thus arising,
whether sentiments or quasi-cognitions, are invalid. Much less can psychology dispute the validity
of a percept if it cannot be sure that the mind adds nothing to sensation and its grouping;
that in the genesis of the perceptive state, with its intuition of something external and now
present as object, nothing like a form of intelligence is superimposed on the elements of sensation,
giving to the result of their coalescence the particular unity which we find. Whether psychology
as a positive science can ever be sure of this: whether, that is to say, it can answer the
question, "How do we come by the idea of object?" without assuming some particular philosophic
or extra-scientific theory respecting the ultimate nature of mind, is a point which I purposely
leave open.

I would contend, then, that the psychologist, in tracing the genesis of the percept out of
previous mental experiences, no more settles the question, What is the object of perception?
than the physicist settles it in referring the sense-impression (and so the percept) to a present
material agent as its condition.

The same applies to our idea of self. I may discover the concrete experiences which supply
the filling in of the idea, and yet not settle the question, Does intelligence add anything
in the construction of the form of this idea? and still less settle the question whether there
is any real unity answering to the idea.

If this is a correct distinction, if psychology, as science, does not determine questions of
validity or objective meaning but only of genesis, if it looks at mental states in relation
only to their temporal and causal concomitants and not to their objects, it must follow that
our preceding analysis of illusion involves no particular philosophic theory as to the nature
of intelligence, but, so far as accurate, consists of scientific facts which all philosophic
theories of intelligence must alike be prepared to accept. And I have little doubt that each
of the two great opposed doctrines, the intuitive and the associational, would claim to be
in a position to take up these facts into its particular theory, and to view them in its own way.

But in addition to this scientific psychology, there is another so-called psychology, which
is, strictly speaking, philosophic. This, I need hardly say, is the association philosophy.
It proceeds by analyzing certain cognitions and sentiments into their elements, and straightway
declaring that they mean nothing more than these. That is to say, the associationist passes
from genesis to validity, from the history of a conscious state to its objective meaning. Thus,
from showing that an intuitive belief, say that in causation, is not original (in the individual
or at least in the race), it goes on to assert that it is not a valid immediate cognition at
all. Now, I am not concerned here to inquire into the logical value of this transition, but
simply to point out that it is extra-scientific and distinctly philosophic. If logically justifiable,
it is so because of some plainly philosophic assumption, as that made by Hume, namely, that
all ideas not derived from impressions are to this extent fictitious or illusory.

And now we are in a position to understand the bearing of our scientific analysis of acknowledged
illusions on the associationist's treatment of the alleged illusions of common sense. There
is no doubt, I think, that some of the so-called intuitions of common sense have points of
analogy to acknowledged illusions. For example, the conviction in the act of perception that
something external to the mind and independent of it exists, has a certain superficial resemblance
to an hallucination of sense; and moreover, the associationist seeks to explain it by means
of these very processes which underlie what is recognized by all as sense-illusion.[158] Again,
it may be said that our notions of force and of a causal nexus in the physical world imply
the idea of conscious energy as known through our muscular sensations, and so have a suspicious
resemblance to those anthropomorphic illusions of which I have spoken under Illusions of Insight.
Once more, the consciousness of freedom may, as I have suggested, be viewed as analogous in
its form and its mode of origin to illusions of introspection. As a last example, it may be
said that the mind's certain conviction of the innateness of some of its ideas resembles those
illusions of memory which arise through an inability to think ourselves back into a remote
past having a type of consciousness widely unlike that of the present.

But now, mark the difference. In our scientific analysis of popularly known illusions, we had
something by which to determine the illusory character of the presentation or belief. We had
a popularly or scientifically accepted standard of certainty, by a reference to which we might
test the particular soi-disant cognition. But in the case of these fundamental beliefs we have
no such criterion, except we adopt some particular philosophic theory, say that of the associationist
himself. Hence this similarity in structure and origin cannot in itself be said to amount to
a proof of equality of logical or objective value. Here again it must be remarked that origin,
does not carry validity or invalidity with it.[159]

We thus come back to our starting-point. While there are close relations, psychological and
logical, between the scientific study of the ascertained facts of illusion and the philosophic
determination of what is illusory in knowledge as a whole, the two domains must be clearly
distinguished. On purely scientific ground we cannot answer the question, "How far does illusion
extend?" The solution of this question must be handed over to the philosopher, as one aspect
of his problem of cognition.

One or two remarks may, perhaps, be hazarded in concluding this account of the relation of
the scientific to the philosophic problem of illusion. Science, as we have seen, takes its
stand on a stable consensus, a body of commonly accepted belief. And this being so, it would
seem to follow, that so far as she is allowed to interest herself in philosophic questions,
she will naturally be disposed to ask, What beliefs are shared in by all minds, so far as normal
and developed? In other words, she will be inclined to look at universality as the main thing
to be determined in the region of philosophic inquiry. The metaphysical sceptic, fond of daring
exploits, may break up as many accepted ideas as he likes into illusory débris, provided only
he has some bit of reality left to take his stand on. Meanwhile, the scientific mind, here
agreeing with the practical mind, will ask, "Will the beliefs thus said to be capable of being
shown to be illusory ever cease to exercise their hold on men's minds, including that of the
iconoclast himself? Is the mode of demonstration of such a kind as to be likely ever to materially
weaken the common-sense 'intuition'?"

This question would seem to be most directly answerable by an appeal to individual testimony.
Viewed in this light, it is a question for the present, for some few already allege that in
their case philosophic reasonings exercise an appreciable effect on these beliefs. And so far
as this is so, the man of scientific temper will feel that there is a question for him.

It is evident, however, that the question of the persistence of these fundamental beliefs is
much more one for the future than for the present. The correction of a clearly detected illusion
is, as I have more than once remarked, a slow process. An illusion such as the apparent movement
of the sun will persist as a partially developed error long after it has been convicted. And
it may be that the fundamental beliefs here referred to, even if presumably illusory, are destined
to exercise their spell for long ages yet.

Whether this will be the case or not, whether these intuitive beliefs are destined slowly to
decay and be dissolved as time rolls on, or whether they will retain an eternal youth, is a
question which we of to-day seem, on a first view of the matter, to have no way of answering
which does not assume the very point in question--the truth or falsity of the belief. This
much may, however, be said. The associationist who resolves these erroneous intuitions into
the play of association, admits that the forces at work generating and consolidating the illusory
belief are constant and permanent forces, and such as are not likely to be less effective in
the future than they have been in the past. Thus, he teaches that the intuition of the single
object in the act of perception owes its strength to "inseparable association," according to
which law the ideas of the separate "possibilities of sensation," which are all we know of
the object, coalesce in the shape of an idea of a single uniting substance. He adds, perhaps,
that heredity has tended, and will still tend, to fix the habit of thus transforming an actual
multiplicity into an imaginary unity. And in thus arguing, he is allowing that the illusion
is one which, to say the least of it, it will always be exceedingly difficult for reason to
dislodge.

In view of this uncertainty, and of the possibility, if not the probability, of these beliefs
remaining as they have remained, at least approximately universal, the man of science will
probably be disposed to hold himself indifferently to the question. He will be inclined to
say, "What does it matter whether you call such an apparently permanent belief the correlative
of a reality or an illusion? Does it make any practical difference whether a universal 'intuition,'
of which we cannot rid ourselves, be described as a uniformly recurring fiction of the imagination,
or an integral constitutive factor of intelligence? And, in considering the historical aspect
of the question, does it not come to much the same thing whether such permanent mental products
be spoken of as the attenuated forms or ghostly survivals of more substantial primitive illusions
(for example, anthropomorphic representations of material objects, 'animistic' representations
of mind and personality), or as the slowly perfected results of intellectual evolution?"

This attitude of the scientific mind towards philosophic problems will be confirmed when it
is seen that those who seek to resolve stable common convictions into illusions are forced,
by their very mode of demonstration, to allow these intuitions a measure of validity. Thus,
the ideas of the unity and externality attributed to the object in the act of perception are
said by the associationist to answer to a matter of fact, namely, the permanent coexistence
of certain possibilities of sensation, and the dependence of the single sensations of the individual
on the presence of the most permanent of these possibilities, namely, those of the active or
muscular and passive sensations of touch, which are, moreover, by far the most constant for
all minds. Similarly, the idea of a necessary connection between cause and effect, even if
illusory in so far as it expresses an objective necessity, is allowed to be true as an expression
of that uniformity of our experience which all scientific progress tends to illustrate more
and more distinctly. And even the idea of a permanent self, as distinct from particular fugitive
feelings, is admitted by the associationist to be correct in so far as it expresses the fact
that mind is "a series of feelings which is aware of itself as past and future." In short,
these "illusory intuitions," by the showing of those who affirm them to be illusory, are by
no means hallucinations having no real object as their correlative, but merely illusions in
the narrow sense, and illusions, moreover, in which the ratio of truth to error seems to be
a large one.

It would thus appear that philosophy tends, after all, to unsettle what appear to be permanent
convictions of the common mind and the presuppositions of science much less than is sometimes
imagined. Our intuitions of external realities, our indestructible belief in the uniformity
of nature, in the nexus of cause and effect, and so on, are, by the admission of all philosophers,
at least partially and relatively true; that is to say, true in relation to certain features
of our common experience. At the worst, they can only be called illusory as slightly misrepresenting
the exact results of this experience. And even so, the misrepresentation must, by the very
nature of the case, be practically insignificant. And so in full view of the subtleties of
philosophic speculation, the man of science may still feel justified in regarding his standard
of truth, a stable consensus of belief, as above suspicion.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcribers note:
In the original some footnotes read 'note[1]'and    | |'note[2]'. They have been renumbered
to allow readers to refer directly| |to the correct footnote.                             
| +----------------------------------------------------------------------+

INDEX.

  A.

  Abercrombie, Dr. J, 141, note[82], 278.

  Abnormal life, relation of,
    to normal, 1, 120, 121, 124, 182, 277, 284, note[132], 336;
    effects of amputation, 62;
    modification of sensibility in, 65;
    gross sense-illusions of, 111, hallucinations of, 118;
    sense of personal identity in, 289.

  Active, stage in perception, 27;
    illusion distinguished from passive, 45, 332-334.

  Actor. See Theatre.

  Adaptation, illusion as want of, 124, 188, 339.

  Æsthetic intuition, 213;
    illusions of, 214.

  After-dreams, 144, 183.

  After-sensation, after-impression, 55, 115.

  Anæsthesia, 65.

  Ancestral experience, results of, 281.

  Animals, recognition of portraits by, 105;
    expectation of, 298.

  Anthropomorphism, 225, 360.

  Anticipation. See Expectation.

  Apparitions. See Hallucination.

  Aristotle, 130.

  Art, illusions of, 77, 104.

  Artemidoros, 129.

  Association, laws of, in perception, 22;
    in dreams, 153, 156;
    link of resemblance in dreams, 159;
    associative dispositions in dreams, 169;
    effect of, in insight, 221;
    inseparable, 359.

  Associationist, views of, 349, 352, 355.

  Attention, involved in perception 21;
    absence of, in sense-illusion, 39, 87;
    relation of, to recognition of objects, 90;
    expectant, 93;
    attitude of, in dreaming, 137, 172;
    to internal mental states, 194;
    absence of, in errors of insight, 228.

  Authority, influence of, in introspection, 210;
    in belief, 325.

  Autobiography, errors connected with, 276, 280.

  Automatic activity of centres, in hallucinations, 113;
    in dreams, 136, 151;
    automatic intellectual processes, 300, 335, 352.

  B.

  Baillarger, J., 13, note[1], 113, note[57], 119,
    notes[64] and [65], 120, note[66].

  Bain, Dr. A., 32, note[12], 117, note[60], 190.

  Beattie, J., 141, note[82].

  Beauty, sentiment of, 206, 213.

  Belief, immediate, 14, 15, 294;
    simple and compound, 296;
    illusory forms of, 297;
    simple expectation, 297;
    expectation, of extra-personal experiences, 307;
    retrospective, 309;
    in persistent objects and persons, 312;
    self-esteem, 315;
    representation of classes of things, 322;
    representations of mankind, 322;
    representation of life and the world as a whole, 322;
    as predisposition to error, 324;
    amount of divergence in, 325;
    tendency towards convergence in, 326.

  Beneficial, correct knowledge as, 340;
    illusion as, 342.

  Berkeley, Bishop, 218, 349, note[154].

  Binet, A., 53, note[20].

  Boismont, Brierre de, 11, note[1].

  Börner, J., 146.

  Braid, James, 186, 187.

  Brewster, Sir D., 42, 73, 81, 116.

  Brücke, E., 77, note[38].

  Byron, Lord, 116.

  C.

  Carpenter, Dr. W.B., 32, note[12], 108, 110, note[56], 186, 231,
    note[111], 265, note[125], 276.

  Castle-building, as illusory perception, 3, 99.

  Cause, idea of, in science, 344;
    reality of relation of, 347, 349, 356, 360.

  Change, a condition of conscious life, 252, 287, note[133].

  Childhood, our recollections of, 263, 269.

  Children, curiosity of, 175, 180;
    estimate of time by, 256;
    confusion of dream and waking life by, 276;
    imagination of, 279;
    self-assertion of, 319;
    intellectual condition of, 357, note[159].

  Clarke, Dr. E.H., 117.

  Classification, in recognition of sensation, 21;
    in recognition, of object, 24;
    in introspective recognition, 193.

  Clifford, Professor W.K., 56, note[24].

  Coalescence, of sensations, 43, 52;
    of dream-images, 162;
    of internal feelings, 196;
    of mnemonic images, 265.

  Coenæsthesis, 41, 99, 145, 286, 288.

  Cognition, immediate or intuitive, 5, 14-16, 294;
    presentative and representative, 9, 13, 217, 330;
    nature of, in dreams, 168, 172;
    nature of, generally, 295, 331;
    philosophic problems of, 346.

  Colour, external reality of, 8, 37;
    illusory perception of, 37, 88;
    subjective complementary colours (colour-contrast), 67, 83.

  Coloured media, objects seen through, 82.

  Common cognition, and truth, 337;
    genesis and validity of, 353.

  Common experience distinguished from
    individual, 26, 27, 137, 209, 214, 336, 351;
    illusion as, 47,325, 337.

  Common sense, intuitions of, 346, 349, 352, 357.

  Complementary colours, 67, 83.

  Concave, apparent conversion of, into convex, 84.

  Conjuror, tricks of, 56, 106.

  Consciousness, veracity of, 192, 205;
    inspection of phenomena of, 196;
    of self, 283, 285.

  Consensus, the standard of truth, 7, 8, 211, 325, 338, 357.

  Conservation of energy, 343.

  Construction, rational, in dreams, 170.

  Continuum, the perception of the world as, 52, 56, note[24].

  Correction of illusion, in sense-illusion, 38, 124, 137;
    dreams, 182;
    introspection, 210;
    insight, 229;
    memory, 291;
    historical correction 338;
    intellectual processes involved in, 351.

  Criterion of illusion, 337.

  Cudworth, R., 161

  D.

  Deception of the senses, 19;
    self-deception, 200;
    conscious deception of others, 222.

  Delboeuf, J., 175, note[97], 235, note[113].

  Delirium tremens, 118, note[62].

  Democritus, 130.

  De Quincey, 253, 280.

  Descartes, R., 116, 350.

  Dickens, Charles, 277.

  Direction, illusory sense of, in vision, 66, 71, 73;
   in hearing, 72, 75.

  Disease. See Abnormal life.

  Dissolution. See Evolution.

  Doubt, starting-point in philosophy, 350.

  Dreams, relation of, to illusions of sense, 18, 130;
    and waking experience, 127;
    theories of, 128;
    physiology of, 131;
    extent of, in sleep, 132;
    psychological conditions of, 136;
    excitants of, 139, 143;
    exaggeration in, 147;
    symbolism of, 149;
    as results of automatic activity of centres, 151;
    as results of association, 153;
    structure of, 156;
    incoherent, 156;
    coherent, 161;
    action of feeling in, 164;
    play of associative dispositions in, 168;
    co-operation of attention and intelligence in, 172;
    limits of intelligence in, 180;
    after-dreams, 183, 274;
    relation of, to hypnotic condition, 185;
    experience of, in relation to errors of memory, 273.

  E.

  Eccentricity, law of, 59.

  Ego. See Self.

  Emotion, and illusion of perception, 103;
    and hallucination, 115;
    and bodily sensations, 150;
    control of dreams by, 164;
    introspection of, 199;
    and illusion of introspection, 203;
    and æsthetic intuition, 213;
    and illusion of memory, 270;
    and illusion of belief, 306, 324;
    and cognition generally, 357, note[159].

  Empiricism, philosophic, 348.

  Ennui, and sense of time, 250.

  Environment, sources of sense-illusion in, 47, 48, 70;
    view of, in mental disease, 290, 326;
    view of, in normal life, 323;
    action of, in assimilating belief, 339.

  Error, immediate and mediate, 6, 334.

  Esquirol, J.E.D., 12, note[2].

  Evolution, relation of, to dissolution, 122;
    of power of introspection, 209;
    of power of insight, 230;
    and self-assertion, 320;
    evolutionist's view of error, 339;
    doctrine of, as science, 346.

  Exaggeration, in interpretation of sensations, 65;
    in dream-interpretation, 147;
    in memory, 269.

  Expectation, preliminary to perception, 30;
    and illusory perception, 93, 102, 106;
    nature of, 295;
    and memory, 298;
    of new experience, 301;
    of remote events, 302;
    measurement of duration in, 302;
    action of imagination in, 305;
    extension of meaning of, 307, 308.

  Experience, effect of, in perception, 22, 68, 85, 86, 91;
    external and internal, 194, 210;
    revivals of waking, in dreams, 152;
    effects of present, on retrospection, 267;
    anticipation of new, 301.

  External world. See World.

  F.

  Fallacy and illusion 6, 335;
    of testimony, 265.

  Familiarity, sense of, in new objects, 272, 281.

  Fechner, G.T., 51.

  Ferrier, Dr., 32, note[12], 58, note[26].

  Fiction, as producing illusion, 278, 279, 311.

  Fitness. See Adaptation.

  Flattery, rationale of, 200, 222.

  Forgetfulness and illusion, 278, 279, 311.

  Free-will, doctrine of, 207, 342, 356.

  Future. See Expectation.

  G.

  Galton, F., 117.

  Ghosts. See Hallucination.

  Goethe, 116, 117, 280 and note[131].

  Griesinger, W., 13, note[2], 63, note[31], 66, note[32], 115, 118,
    note[62], 119, note[64], 120, note[66], 290, note[135], 327,
    note[146].

  Gruithuisen, 143, 144.

  Gurney, E., 224, note[109].

  H.

  Hall, G.S., 186, note[102].

  Hallucination, and illusion, 11, 109, 111, 112, 121;
    and subjective sensation, 63, 109, 121;
    sensory and motor, 66;
    nervous conditions of, 112-114;
    incomplete and complete, 113;
    as having either central or peripheral origin, 113;
    causes of, classified, 115;
    in sane condition, 116;
    in insanity, 118;
    visual and auditory, 119;
    dreams regarded as, 139, 151;
    hypnagogic, 143;
    after-dreams and ghosts, 183;
    of memory, 271;
    relation of, to errors of belief, 322;
    intuition of external world regarded as, 355.

  Happiness, feeling of, 200.

  Harmful, illusion as, 188, 229, 292, 339.

  Harmless, illusions as, 124, 292, 341.

  Hartley, D., 139, 256, note[124], 279.

  Hearing, as mode of perception, 34, 48;
    localization of impression in, 60;
    sense of direction in, 72;
    activity of, in sleep, 140;
    and muscular sense, 171.

  Heidenhain, Dr., 186-188.

  Helmholtz, H., 22, 23, note[7], 44, 51, 54 and note[22], 55, note[23],
    57, 67, note[33], 78, note[39], 80, 85, note[43], 88, 90, 207,
    note[105].

  Heraclitus, 137.

  Heredity, and illusion of memory, 280;
    action of, in perpetuating intuition, 359.

  Hering, E., 67, note[33].

  Hodgson, Shadworth H., 347, note[153].

  Holland, Sir H., 277.

  Hood, Thomas, 146.

  Hope, illusory. See Expectation.

  Hoppe, Dr. J.I., 51, 58, note[26].

  Horwicz, A., 145, note[85].

  Hume, D., 355.

  Huxley, Professor T., 119, note[1].

  Hyperæsthesia, 65.

  Hypnotism, 185.

  Hypochondria, 65.

  Hypothesis, as illusory, 310, 311.

  I.

  Idealism, 348.

  Identity, cases of mistaken, 267.

  Identity, personal, confusion of, in dreams, 163;
    consciousness of, 241, 267, 282, 285;
    illusory forms of, 283;
    gross disturbances of, in normal life, 287;
    in abnormal life, 289;
    momentary confusions of, 293.

  Illusion, definition of, 1;
    varieties of, 9;
    extent of, 328;
    rationale of, 331, 337.

  Image (physical). See Reflection.

  Image (mental), in perception, 22;
    seat of, 32;
    in dreams, 138;
    mnemonic, 236.

  Imagination, play of, in perception, 95, 99;
    and sense-illusion, 106;
    nature of, in dreaming, 136, 161;
    as antecedent of dream, 152, 158;
    as poetic interpretation of nature, 224;
    memory corrupted by effect of past, 264, 273, 277;
    present, creating the semblance of recollection, 267, 271;
    play of, in expectation, 305;
    as element of illusion generally, 333.

  Immediate. See Cognition.

  Individual, and common experience, 26, 27, 137, 209, 214, 336;
    dream-experience as, 44, 68;
    internal experience as, 209;
    memory as, 232;
    belief and truth, 338.

  Inference, and immediate knowledge, 6, 334;
    in perception, 22, 26, 68;
    in belief, 295.

  Innate, recollection as, 280;
    principles, 295, 356.

  Insane, sense-illusions of, 63, 65, 111;
    hallucinations of, 118;
    dreaming and state of, 182;
    mnemonic illusions of, 278, 289;
    beliefs of, 327.

  Insight, nature of, 217;
    illusions of, defined, 220;
    passive illusions of, 220;
    histrionic illusion, 222;
    active illusions of, 223;
    poetic interpretation of nature, 224;
    value of faculty of, 228.

  Interpretation, in correct perception, 22;
    of impression and experience, 70;
    and volition, 95;
    and fixed habits of mind, 101;
    and temporary attitude of mind, 102;
    of sensations in dreams, 137, 147;
    of internal feelings, 203;
    of others' feelings, 217;
    of nature by poet, 225;
    recollection as, 242.

  Introspection, nature of, 14, 189;
    illusory forms of, 190;
    confusion of inner and outer experiences, 194;
    inaccurate inspection of feelings, 196;
    presentation and representation confused, 199;
    feelings and inferences from these, 203;
    moral self-scrutiny, 204;
    philosophic, 205;
    value of, 208.

  Intuition. See Cognition.

  Intuitivism, 348.

  J.

  Jackson, Dr. J. Hughlings, 27, note[9], 33, 123, note[67].

  Johnson, Dr., 116.

  K.

  Klang, as compound sensation, 53.

  Knowledge. See Cognition.

  L.

  Language, function of, 195.

  Leibnitz, 133.

  Lélut, L.F., 120, note[66].

  Lessing, G. E., 133, note[73].

  Leuret, 290, note[135].

  Lewes, G.H., 28, 32, note[12], 52, note[30], 62, note[1], 68,
    note[35], 89, note[45], 115, note[58], 150.

  Life, our estimate of, 323, 326, 327.

  Light, sensation and perception of, 59;
    effects of reflection and refraction, of, 73;
    representation, of, in painting, 88, 91;
    action of, in sleep, 140.

  Localization, as local discrimination of sensations, 52;
    as localizing of sensations, 59, 60;
    illusory, 61, 82;
    in hallucination, 118, 119;
    in dreaming, 148;
    of events in time, in memory, 238, 245;
    in expectation, 304.

  Locke, 133, note[73].

  Lotze, H., 60, note[29].

  Lover, illusion of, 224, 227, 342.

  Luminosity of painting, 88, 91.

  Lustre, as compound sensation, 54.

  Lyell, Sir Charles, 311.

  M.

  Magic, arts of, 73.

  Magnitude, apparent, in vision, 75, note[37];
    perception of, in pictorial art, 88, 91;
    of time-intervals, 245, 249;
    recollection of, 268.

  Malebranche, 116.

  Mankind, our views of, 322.

  Matter. See World (material).

  Maudsley, Dr. H., 32, note[12].

  Maury, A., 140, 143, 153, note[92], 159, 163, note[94], 173.

  Mayer, Dr. A., 66, note[32].

  Measurement, subjective, of time, 245.

  Media, coloured, illusions connected with presence of, 82.

  Memory, nature of, 9, 13, 231;
    veracity of, 232, 290;
    defined, 234;
    psychology of, 236;
    physiology of, 237;
    localization of events in, 238;
    and sense of personal identity, 241, 283;
    illusions of, 241;
    illusory localization, 245, 256;
    distortions of, 261;
    hallucinations of, 271;
    illusions respecting personal identity, 283;
    relation of, to belief, 295;
    compared with expectation, 297;
    and inference, 335.

  Metempsychosis, 294.

  Meyer, H., 83, 144.

  Mill, J.S., 298, note[138], 309.

  Mirrors, as means of delusion, 73.

  Misanthropist, 2, 323.

  Mitchell, Dr. Weir, 62.

  Monomania, 111.

  Moral, intuition, 216;
    self-inspection, 204.

  Motor illusions. See Muscular sense.

  Movement, apparent, 50, 57, 73, 81, 95, 107;
    in dreams, 142, 154.

  Müller, Johannes, 58, note[27], 100, 117, 143.

  Muscæ volitantes, 118, note[62].

  Muscular sense, in perception, 23;
    illusions connected with, 50, 57, 62, 66;
    co-operation, of, in dreams, 142, 154.

  Music, subjective interpretation of, 223.

  N.

  Natural selection, effect of, in eliminating error, 340.

  Nature, personification of, 224;
    uniformity of, 344, 360.

  Necessity, idea of, 349, 360.

  Nervous system, and conditions of perception, 31;
    connections of, 32, 169;
    function of, and force of stimulus, 47, 50;
    prolonged activity of, 55;
    specific energy of, 58;
    variations in state of, 64;
    fatigue of, 65, 115;
    disease of, ibid.;
    nervous conditions of hallucination, 112, 115;
    nervous dissolution and evolution, 122;
    condition of, in sleep, 131;
    in hypnotic condition, 186;
    nervous conditions of memory, 237;
    nervous conditions of illusion in general, 334.

  Normal life, relation of,
    to abnormal, 1, 121, 124, 182, 277, 284, note[132];
    hallucinations of, 116.

  O.

  Object, nature of, 36, 353.

  Objective and subjective experience, 26, 27, 137, 214.

  Old age, dreams how regarded in, 276.

  Oneirocritics, 129.

  Opera, illusion connected with, 104.

  Optimism, 323, 327, 342.

  Organic sensations, discrimination of, 41;
    interpretation of, 99;
    in sleep, 145, 148.

  Organism, conditions of illusion in, 47, 50;
    relation of our conception of the universe to sensibilities of, 343.

  Orientation, 125, 138.

  P.

  Pain, recollection of, 264, 270.

  Painting, representation of third dimension by, 77;
    apparent movement of eye in portrait, 81;
    discrepancies between, and object in magnitude and luminosity, 88;
    realization of, and mental preparation, 105;
    realization of, by animals, 105.

  Paræsthesia, 68.

  Paralysis of ocular muscles, 66.

  Passive, and active factor in perception, 27;
    and active illusion, 45.

  Percept, 22;
    and sense-impression, 59.

  Perception, a form of immediate knowledge, 10, 13, 17, 18;
    external and internal, 14;
    philosophy of, 14, 20, 22, 36, 346, 348, 353, 355, 359;
    illusions of, 19, 35;
    psychology of, 20;
    and inference, 22, 26, 76;
    physiological conditions of, 31.

  Persistent objects, representation of, 312.

  Persistent self. See Personal identity.

  Personal equation, in perception, 101;
    in æsthetic intuition, 214;
    in memory, 292;
    in belief, 324.

  Personal identity, consciousness of, 241, 282, 285;
    illusions connected with, 283;
    disturbances in sense of, 287;
    sense of, in insanity, 289;
    momentary confusions of, 293;
    philosophic problem of, 285, 354, 360.

  Personification of nature, 224.

  Perspective, linear, 79, 97, 98;
    aerial, 80;
    of memory, 245.

  Pessimism, 323, 327.

  Phenomenalism, 348.

  Philosophy, conception of illusion by, 7, 36, 205, 285, 349;
    of mind, 132, 285, 344, 348;
    as theory of knowledge, 295, 346;
    and science, 346, 348;
    and common sense, 347, 349;
    problems of, 347.

  Phosphenes, 58.

  Physical science. See Science.

  Plato, 281.

  Platonists, 349.

  Pleasure, feeling of, 200;
    recollection of, 264, 270.

  Plutarch, 133, note[73].

  Poetry, lyrical and dreams, 164;
    misinterpretation of, 223;
    personification, 224.

  Points, discrimination of, 52.

  Poisons, action of, 115.

  Pollock, F., 184, note[101].

  Pollock, W.H., 184.

  Predisposition, action of, in perception, 44, 101, 102;
    in æsthetic intuition, 215;
    in insight, 223;
    in recollection, 268;
    in belief, 305, 319;
    belief as, 324.

  Prejudice. See Predisposition.

  Prenatal experience, recollection of, 281.

  Preperception, 27;
    illusions connected with, 44, 93;
    voluntary, 95;
    result of habit of mind, 101;
    result of temporary conditions, 102;
    as sub-expectation, 102;
    as definite expectation, 106.

  Presentation and representation, 9, 10, 13, 14, 192, 234, 329, 330.

  Projection, outward, of sensations, 63;
    of mental image, 111, 112;
    of solid form on flat, 79, 81, 96.

  Prophetic, dreams as, 129, 147, note[88];
    enthusiast, 307.

  Psychology, popular and scientific, 9, 10;
    distinguished from philosophy, 14, 36, 345, 352;
    introspective method of, 208;
    as a kind of philosophy, 305.

  Public events, localization, of, by memory, 258.

  R.

  Radestock, P., 130, note[71], 132, note[72], 134, note[75], 140, 141,
    149, note[90], 162, 182, 275.

  Rationalism, philosophic, 348.

  Realism, 348.

  Reality, nature of, 36, 346.

  Recognition, and perception, 24, 25;
    illusions of, 87;
    and memory, 234.

  Reflection (of light), illusions connected with, 73, 83.

  Refraction and optical illusion, 73.

  Relative, sensation as, 64;
    attention to magnitude and brightness as, 91;
    estimate of duration as, 249.

  Relief, illusory perception of, 75, 96.

  Representation and presentation, 9, 10, 13, 14, 192.

  Retrospection. See Memory.

  Ribot, T., 238, note[114], 290, note[135].

  Richter, J.P., 143.

  Robertson, Professor G.C., 35, note[14].

  Romanes, G.J., 105, note[2], 250, note[122].

  Rousseau, 280.

  S.

  Savage, dream theory of, 128;
    idea of nature of, 225.

  Scherner, C.A., 140, 149.

  Schopenhauer, A., 145, 342.

  Schroeder, H., 85.

  Science, philosophy and, 8, 36, 285, 344;
    conception of the material world in physical, 36, 343, 346, 347;
    and common cognition, 338, 357.

  Scott, Sir W., 116, 125.

  Secondary qualities, 36, 344.

  Selection, process of, in perception, 95;
    in dreams, 174;
    in memory, 257, 263.

  Self, confusion of, in dreams, 163;
    introspective knowledge of, 192;
    self-deception, 200;
    identity of, 241, 282, 285;
    confusion of present and past, 267, 284;
    disturbances in recognition of, 287, 289;
    momentary confusions of, 295;
    confusion of present and future, 305.

  Self-esteem, illusion of, 315;
    origin of, 319;
    utility of, 342.

  Self-preservation, 320.

  Sensation, element in perception, 20;
    discrimination and classification of, 21;
    interpretation of, 22;
    inattention to, 39, 87;
    modified by central reaction, 39, 87, 89, 91;
    confusion of novel, 40;
    indistinct, 41;
    misinterpretation of, 44;
    relation of, to stimulus, 46, 50;
    limits to discrimination of, 52;
    after-impression, 55;
    subjective, 59, 62, 107, 143;
    localization of, 59.

  Sensibility, limits of, 50;
    variations of, 64.

  Sensualism, philosophic, 348.

  Shadow, cast, 77.

  Shakespeare, 3.

  Sight, mode of perception, 19, 33, 34, 48, 49;
    local discrimination in, 52;
    single vision, 54;
    localization of impression in, 60;
    in sleep, 139;
    images of, in sleep, 150, 154.

  Single, vision, 54;
    touch, 72.

  Sleep, mystery of, 127;
    physiology of, 131.

  Sleight of hand. See Conjuror.

  Smell, as mode of perception, 34, note[14];
    localization of impression in, 60;
    subjective sensations of, 108;
    in sleep, 141;
    and taste, 171.

  Solidity, illusory perception of, 75, 96.

  Space, representation of, 207.

  Specific energy of nerves, 58.

  Spectra, ocular, etc. See Subjective sensation.

  Spencer, Herbert, 32, note[12], 128, note[69], 323, 340.

  Spinoza, 143, 184.

  Spiritualist séances, 103, 107, 123, 265.

  Stereoscope, 75.

  Stewart, Dugald, 172, 306.

  Stimulus, qualitative relation of, to sensations, 46, 58, 67;
    quantitative relation of, to sensation, 50, 64;
    after-effect of, 55;
    prolonged action of, 56;
    subjective or internal, 62;
    exceptional relation of, to organ, 70;
    action of, in sleep, 135, 139, 143;
    in hypnotic condition, 186.

  Strümpell, L., 144, 147, note[89].

  Subjective, experience, 26, 27, 137, 214;
    movement, 51, 57;
    sensation, 59, 62, 107, 113, 121, 143.

  Suggestion, by external circumstances, 30, 44, 89, 91, 267;
    verbal, 30, 106, 188, 215, 268, 301, 310.

  Symbol, dream as, 129, 149.

  Sympathy, basis of knowledge, 223;
    and illusion of insight, 223;
    and illusion of memory, 277;
    and momentary illusion, 293.

  T.

  Taine, H., 60, note[29], 108, note[54], 117, note[59], 137,
    298, note[137], 356, note[158].

  Taste, æsthetic. See Æsthetic intuition.

  Taste, localization of impression in, 60;
    subjective sensations of, 63;
    variations in sensibility, 68;
    activity of, in sleep, 141;
    and smell, 171.

  Temperament, a factor in sense-illusion, 101;
    in dreams, 137;
    in illusory belief, 325;
    in illusion generally, 334, note[149].

  Temperature, sense of, 65.

  Tennyson, A., 226.

  Testa, A.J., 131.

  Testimony, of consciousness, 205;
    fallacies of, 265;
    to identity, 267.

  Thaumatrope, 56.

  Theatre, illusion of the, 104, 222;
    self-deception of the actor, 200.

  Thompson, Professor S.P., 51, note[17].

  Thought, in relation to belief, 326.

  Time, retrospective idea of, 239, 246, 250;
    constant error in estimate of, 245;
    subjective estimate of, 249;
    contemporaneous estimate of, 250;
    sense of, in insanity, 290;
    prospective estimate of, 303.

  Touch, as form of perception, 33, 34, 49;
    local discrimination in, 52;
    subjective sensations of, 62;
    variations in sensibility of, 65;
    in sleep, 141.

  Transformation, in perception, 94;
    of images in dreams, 163;
    in memory, 262, 267;
    in expectation, 305.

  Trick. See Conjuror.

  Tuke, Dr., 110.

  Tylor, E.B., 128, note[69].

  U.

  Unconscious, inference, 22, 68, 269, 335, note[150];
    mental activity, 133, 235;
    impressions, 41, 152.

  Useful. See Beneficial.

  V.

  Vanity. See Self-esteem.

  Venn, J., 299, note[139].

  Ventriloquism, 82.

  Verification, of sense-impression, 38, 351;
    of self-inspection, 210;
    of memory, 291.

  Verisimilitude, in art, 80, 88;
    in theatrical representation, 104;
    in dreams, 168.

  Vierordt, 245.

  Vision. See Sight.

  Visions, 1, 110;
    dreams regarded as, 128, 131.

  Vital sense. See Coenæsthesis.

  Voice, internal, 119, 194;
    activity of, in dreams, 155.

  Volition, and perception, 95;
    absence of, during sleep, 137,172;
    co-operation of, in correction, of illusion, 352.

  Volkelt, J., 172.

  W.

  Weber, E.H., 43.

  Weinhold, Professor, 186.

  Wetness, perception of, 53.

  Wheatstone, Sir C, 75.

  Wheel of life, 56.

  Will. See Volition.

  Wordsworth, W., 281.

  World, our estimate of, 323, 326, 327;
    scientific conception of material, 8, 36, 343, 344;
    reality of external, 344-346, 349, 353, 355, 360.

  Wundt, Professor, W. 13, note[2], 31, note[11], 32, note[12], 58,
    note[27], 67, note[34], 75, 93, note[47], 118, note[63], 136,
    note[77], 139, 143, 177, 246, 247, note[119], 251, 252, 254.

THE END

FOOTNOTES:

[1] A history of the distinction is given by Brierre de Boismont, in his work On Illusions
(translated by R. T. Hulme, 1859). He says that Arnold (1806) first defined hallucination,
and distinguished it from illusion. Esquirol, in his work, Des Maladies Mentales (1838), may
be said to have fixed the distinction. (See Hunt's translation, 1845, p. 111.)

[2] This fact has been fully recognized by writers on the pathology of the subject; for example,
Griesinger, Mental Pathology and Therapeutics (London, 1867), p. 84; Baillarger, article, "Des
Hallucinations," in the Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Médecine, tom. xii. p. 273, etc; Wundt,
Physiologische Psychologie, p. 653.

[3] I here touch on the distinction between the psychological and the philosophical view of
perception, to be brought out more fully by-and-by.

[4] It might even be urged that the order here adopted is scientifically the best, since sense-perception
is the earliest form of knowledge, introspected facts being known only in relation to perceived
facts. But if the mind's knowledge of its own states is thus later in time, it is earlier in
the logical order, that is to say, it is the most strictly presentative form of knowledge.

[5] Here and elsewhere I use the word "impression" for the whole complex of sensation which
is present at the moment. It may, perhaps, not be unnecessary to add that, in employing this
term, I am making no assumption about the independent existence of external objects.

[6] Psychological usage has now pretty well substituted the term "image" for "idea," in order
to indicate an individual (as distinguished from a general) representation of a sensation or
percept. It might, perhaps, be desirable to go further in this process of differentiating language,
and to distinguish between a sensational image, e.g. the representation of a colour, and a
perceptional image, as the representation of a coloured object. It may be well to add that,
in speaking of a fusion of an image and a sensation, I do not mean that the former exists apart
for a single instant. The term "fusion" is used figuratively to describe the union of the two
sides or aspects of a complete percept.

[7] This impulse to fill in visual elements not actually present is strikingly illustrated
in people's difficulty in recognizing the gap in the field of vision answering to the insensitive
"blind" spot on the retina. (See Helmholtz, Physiologische Optik, p. 573, et seq.)

[8] This relation will be more fully discussed under the head of "Memory."

[9] I adopt this distinction from Dr. J. Hughlings Jackson. See his articles, "On Affections
of Speech from Diseases of the Brain," in Brain, Nos. iii. and vii. The second stage might
conveniently be named apperception, but for the special philosophical associations of the term:
Problems of Life and Mind, third series, p. 107. This writer employs the word "preperception"
to denote this effect of previous perception.

[10] Such verbal suggestion, moreover, acting through a sense-impression, has something of
that vividness of effect which belongs to all excitation of mental images by external stimuli.

[11] See Wundt, Physiologische Psychologie, p. 723.

[12] For a confirmation of the view adopted in the text, see Professor Bain, The Senses and
the Intellect, Part II. ch. i. sec. 8; Herbert Spencer, Principles of Psychology, vol. i. p.
234, et passim; Dr. Ferrier, The Functions of the Brain, p. 258, et seq.; Professor Wundt,
op. cit., pp. 644, 645; G. H. Lowes, Problems of Life and Mind, vol. v. p. 445, et seq. For
an opposite view, see Dr. Carpenter, Mental Physiology, fourth edit., p. 220, etc.; Dr. Maudsley,
The Physiology of Mind, ch. v. p. 259, etc.

