No. 23.] SATURDAY, APRIL 6. 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{361}

CONTENTS.

NOTES:-- Page
  Periplus of Hanno, by R.T. Hampson 361
  Pope Vindicated 362
  The Supper of the Lorde 362
  Folk Lore:--Palm Sunday Wind--Curious Symbolical Custom--The Wild
     Huntsman 363
  On Authors and Books, No. VI, by Bolton Corney 363

QUERIES:--
  Nicholas Breton's Crossing of Proverbs, by J.P. Collier 364
  Sword called Curtana, by E.F. Rimbault, LL.D. 364
  Is the Dombec the Domesday of Alfred? by George Munford 365
  Minor Queries:--Wickliffite Versions of the Scriptures--Gloves--Law
    Courts at St. Alban's--Milton Pedigree--Sapcote Motto--Scala Coeli,
    &c. 366

REPLIES:--
  The Arabic Numerals and Cipher 367
  Replies to Minor Queries, by Sir W.C. Trevelyan 368
  Derivation of "News" 369
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Swot--Pokership--Vox Populi--Living Dog better
    than dead Lion--Curious Monumental Brasses--Chapels--Forthlot--Loscop--
    Smelling of the Lamp--Anglo-Saxon MS. of Orosius--Golden Frog--Sword
    of Charles I.--John Bull--Vertue MSS.--Lines attributed to Tom Brown,
    &c. 369

MISCELLANIES:--
  Epigram by La Monnoye--Spur Money--Minimum de Malls--Epigram on Louis
    XIV.--Macaulay's Young Levite--St. Martin's Lane--Charles Deering,
    M.D. 373

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 375
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted 375
  Notices to Correspondents 375
  Advertisements 376

       *       *       *       *       *

PERIPLUS OF HANNO THE CARTHAGINIAN.

I am not sufficiently Quixotic to attempt a defence of the Carthaginians on the western coast
of Africa, or any where else, but I submit that the accusation brought against them by Mr.
S. Bannister, formerly Attorney-General of New South Wales, is not sustained by the only record
we possess of Hanno's colonising expedition. That gentleman, in his learned Records of British
Enterprise beyond Sea, just published, says, in a note, p. xlvii.:--

"The first nomade tribe they reached was friendly, and furnished Hanno with interpreters. At
length they discovered a nation whose language was unknown to the interpreters. These strangers
they attempted to seize; and, upon their resistance, they took three of the women, whom they
put to death, and carried their skins to Carthage" (Geogr. Græci Minores, Paris, 1826, p. 115.).

Hanno obtained interpreters from a people who dwelt on the banks of a large river, called the
Lixus, and supposed to be the modern St. Cyprian. Having sailed thence for several days, and
touched at different places, planting a colony in one of them, he came to a mountainous country
inhabited by savages, who wore skins of wild beasts, [Greek: dermata thaereia enaemmenon].
At a distance of twelve days' sail he came to some Ethiopians, who could not endure the Carthaginians,
and who spoke unintelligibly even to the Lixite interpreters. These are the people whose women,
Mr. Bannister says, they killed. Hanno sailed from this inhospitable coast fifteen days, and
came to a gulf which he calls [Greek: Notou Kera], or South Horn.

    "Here," says the Dr. Hawkesworth, of Carthage, "in the gulf,
    was an island, like the former, containing a lake, and in
    this another island, full of wild men; but the women were
    much more numerous, with hairy bodies ([Greek: daseiai tois
    somasin]), whom the interpreters called [Greek: gorillas].
    We pursued the men, who, flying to precipices, defended
    themselves with stones, and could not be taken. Three women,
    who bit and scratched their leaders, would not follow them.
    Having killed them, we brought their skins to Carthage."

