That the Shakspearian word delighted might, as far as its form goes, mean "endowed with delight,"
"full of delight," I should readily concede; but this meaning would suit neither the passage
in Measure for Measure,--"the delighted spirit,"--nor (satisfactorily) that in Othello,--"delighted
beauty." Whether, therefore, delighted be derived from the Latin delectus or not, I still believe
that it means "refined," "dainty," "delicate;" a sense which is curiously adapted to each of
the three places. This will not be questioned with respect to the second and third passages
cited by {251} MR. HICKSON: and the following citations will, I think, prove the point as effectually
for the passage of Measure for Measure:

  1. "Fine apparition".--Tempest, Act i. sc. 2.

  2. "Spirit, fine spirit."--Ditto.

  3. "Delicate Ariel."--Ditto.

  4. "And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate,
      To act her earthy and abhorred commands."
                                         Ditto.

  5. "Fine Ariel."--Ditto.

  6. "My delicate Ariel."--Ditto. Act iv. sc. 1.

  7. "Why that's my dainty Ariel."--Ditto. Act v.
      sc. 1.

I do not know the precise nature of the "old authorities" which MR. SINGER opposes to my conjecture:
but may we not demur to the conclusiveness of any "old authorities" on such a point? Etymology
seems to be one of the developing sciences, in which we know more, and better, than our forefathers,
as our descendants will know more, and better, than we do.

To end with a brace of queries. Are not delicioe, delicatus, more probably from deligere than
from delicere? And whence comes the word dainty? I cannot believe in the derivation from dens,
"a tooth."

B.H. KENNEDY.

       *       *       *       *       *

AËROSTATION.

Your correspondent C.B.M. (Vol. ii., p 199.) will find a long article on Aërostation in Rees'
Cyclopædia; but his inquiry reminds me of a conversation I had with the late Sir Anthony Carlisle,
about a year before his death. He wished to consult me on the subject of flying by mechanical
means, and that I should assist him in some of his arrangements. He had devoted many years
of his life to the consideration of this subject, and made numerous experiments at great cost,
which induced him to believe in the possibility of enabling man to fly by means of artificial
wings. However visionary this idea might be, he had collected innumerable and extremely interesting
data, having examined the anatomical structure of almost every winged thing in the creation,
and compared the weight of the body with the area of the wings when expanded in the act of
volitation as well as the natural habits of birds, insects, bats, and fishes, with reference
to their powers of flying and duration of flight.

These notes would form a valuable addition to natural history, whatever might be thought of
the purpose for which they were collected, during a period of thirty years; and it is much
to be regretted they were never published. His own opinion was, that the publication, during
his life would injure his practice as a physician. It would be impossible without the aid of
diagrams, and I do not remember sufficient, to explain his mechanical contrivances; but the
general principle was, to suspend the man under a kind of flat parachute of extremely thin
feather-edge boards, with a power of adjusting the angle at which it was placed, and allowing
the man the full use of his arms and legs to work any machinery placed beneath; the area of
the parachute being proportioned, as in birds to the weight of the man, who was to start from
the top of a high tower, or some elevated position, flying against the wind.

HENRY WILKINSON.

Brompton.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Long Lonkin (Vol. ii., p. 168.).--If SELEUCUS will refer to Mr. Chamber's Collection of Scottish
Ballads, he will find there the whole story under the name of Lammilsin, of which Lonkin appears
to me to be a corruption. In the 6th verse it is rendered:

  "He said to his ladye fair,
  Before he gaed abuird,
  Beware, beware o, Lammilsin!
  For he lyeth in the wudde."

Then the story goes on to state that Lammilsin crept in at a little shot window, and after
some conversation with the "fause nourrice" they decide to

  "Stab the babe, and make it cry,
  And that will bring her down."

Which being done, they murder the unhappy lady. Shortly after, Lord Weirie comes home, and
has the "fause nourrice" burnt at the stake. From the circumstance that the name of the husband
of the murdered lady was Weirie, it is conjectured that this tragedy took place at Balwearie
Castle, in Fife, and the old people about there constantly affirm that it really occurred.
I am not aware that there exists any connection between the hero of this story and the nursery
rhyme; for, as I before stated, I think Lonkin a corruption of Lammilsin.

H.H.C.

Rowley Powley (Vol. ii., p. 74.).--Andre Valladier, who died about the middle of the sixteenth
century, was a popular preacher and the king's almoner. He gained great applause for his funeral
oration on Henry IV. In his sermon for the second Sunday in Lent (Rouen, 1628), he says;--

    "Le paon est gentil et miste, bien que par la parfaite beauté de
    sa houppe, par la rareté et noblesse de sa teste, par la
    gentilesse et netteté de son cou, par l'ornement de ses pennes
    et par la majesté de tout le reste de son corps, il ravit tous
    ceux qui le contemplent attentivement; toutefois au rencontre de
    sa femelle, pour l'attirer à son amour, il déploye sa pompe,
    fait montrer et parade de son plumage bizarré, et RIOLLÉ PIOLLÉ
    se presente à elle avec piafe, et luy donne la plus belle visée
    de sa roue. De mesme ce Dieu admirable, amoreux des hommes, pour
    nous ravir d'amour à soy, desploye le lustre de ses plus
    accomplies beautez, et comme un amant transporté de sa bienaimée
    se {252} montre pour nous allecher à cetter transformation de
    nous en luy, de nostre misère en sa gloire."--Ap.
    Predicatoriuna p. 132-3: Dijon, 1841.

H.B.C.

Guy's Armour (Vol. ii., pp. 55. 187.).--With respect to the armour said to have belonged to
Guy, Earl of Warwick, your correspondent NASO is referred to Grose's Military Antiquities,
vol. ii. pl. 42., where he will find an engraving of a bascinet of the fourteenth century,
much dilapidated, but having still a fragment of the moveable vizor adhering to the pivot on
which it worked. Whether this interesting relic is still at Warwick Castle or not, I cannot
pretend to say, as I was unfortunately prevented joining the British Archæological Association
at the Warwick congress in 1847, and have never visited that part of the country; but the bascinet
which was there in Grose's time was at least of the date of Guido de Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick,
the builder of Guy's Tower, who died in 1315, and who has always been confounded with the fabulous
Guy: and if it has disappeared, we have to regret the loss of the only specimen of an English
bascinet of that period that I am aware of in this country.

J.R. PLANCHÊ

Alarm (Vol. ii., pp. 151. 183.).--The origin of this word appears to be the Italian cry, all'arme;
gridare all'arme is to give the alarm. Hence the French alarme, and from the French is borrowed
the English word. Alarum for alarm, is merely a corruption produced by mispronunciation. The
letters l and r before m are difficult to pronounce; and they are in general, according to
the refined standard of our pronunciation, so far softened as only to lengthen the preceding
vowel. In provincial pronunciation, however, the force of the former letter is often preserved,
and the pronunciation is facilitated by the insertion of a vowel before the final m. The Irish,
in particular, adopt this mode of pronouncing; even in public speaking they say callum, firrum,
farrum, for calm, firm, farm. The old word chrisom for chrism, is an analogous change: the
Italians have in like manner lengthened chrisma into cresima; the French have softened it into
chrême.

L.

Alarm.--It is in favour of the derivation à l'arme that the Italian is allarme; some dictionaries
even have dare all'arme, with the apostrophe, for to give alarm. It is against it that the
German word Lärm is used precisely as the English alarm. Your correspondent CH. thinks the
French derivation suspiciously ingenious: here I must differ; I think it suspiciously obvious.
I will give him a suggestion which I think really suspiciously ingenious: in fact, had not
the opportunity occurred for illustrating ingenuity, I should not have ventured it. May it
not be that alarme and allarme is formed in the obvious way, as to arms; while alarum and Lärm
wholly unconnected with them? May it not sometimes happen that, by coincidence, the same sounds
and meanings go together in different languages without community of origin? Is it not possible
that larum and Lärm are imitations of the stroke and subsequent resonance of a large bell?
Denoting the continued sound of m by m-m-m, I think that lrm-m-m-lrm-m-m-lrm-m-m &c., is as
good an imitation of a large bell at some distance as letters can make. And in the old English
use of the word, the alarum refers more often to a bell than to any thing else.

The introduction of the military word into English can be traced, as to time, with a certain
probability. In 1579, Thomas Digges published his Arithmeticall Militare Treatise named Stratioticos,
which he informs us is mainly the writing of his father, Leonard Digges. At page 170. the father
seems to finish with "and so I mean to finishe this treatise:" while the son, as we must suppose,
adds p. 171. and what follows. In the father's part the word alarm is not mentioned, that I
can find. If it occurred anywhere, it would be in describing the duties of the scout-master;
but here we have nothing but warning and surprise, never alarm. But in the son's appendix,
the word alarme does occur twice in one page (173.). It also occurs in the body of the second
edition of the book, when of course it is the son who inserts it. We may say then, that, in
all probability, the military technical term was introduced in the third quarter of the sixteenth
century. This, I suspect, is too late to allow us to suppose that the vernacular force which
Shakspeare takes it to have, could have been gained for it by the time he wrote.

The second edition was published in 1590; about this time the spelling of the English language
made a very rapid approach to its present form. This is seen to a remarkable extent in the
two editions of the Stratioticos; in the first, the commanding officer of a regiment is always
corronel, in the second collonel. But the most striking instance I now remember, is the following.
In the first edition of Robert Recorde's Castle of Knowledge (1556) occurs the following tetrastich:--

  "If reasons reache transcende the skye,
  Why shoulde it then to earthe be bounde?
  The witte is wronged and leadde awrye,
  If mynde be maried to the grounde."

In the second edition (1596) the above is spelt as we should now do it, except in having skie
and awrie.

M.

Prelates of France (Vol. ii., p. 182.).--In answer to a Minor Query of P.C.S.S., I can inform
him that I have in my possession, if it be of any use to him, a manuscript entitled Tableau
de l'Ordre religieux en France, avant et depuis l'Edit de 1768, {253} containing the houses,
number of religions, and revenues, and the several dioceses in which they were to be found.

M.

Midgham House, Newbury, Berks.

Haberdasher (Vol. ii., p. 167.).--

    "Haberdasher, a retailer of goods, a dealer in small wares; T.
    haubvertauscher, from haab; B. have; It. haveri,
    haberi, goods, wares; and tauscher, vertauscher, a dealer,
    an exchanger; G. tuiskar; D. tusker; B. tuischer."

This derivation of the term haberdasher is from Thomson's Etymons, and seems to be satisfactory.

Haberdascher was the name of a trade at least as early as the reign of Edward III.; but it
is not easy to decide what was the sort of trade or business then carried on under that name.
Any elucidation of that point would be very acceptable.

D.

"Rapido contrarius orbi" (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--No answer having appeared to the inquiry of
N.B., it may be stated that, in Hartshorne's Book-Rarities of Cambridge, mention is made of
a painting, in Emanuel College, of "Abp. Sancroft, sitting at a writing-table with arms, and
motto, Rapido contrarius orbi. P.P. Lens, F.L."

Brayley, in his Concise Account of Lambeth Palace, describes a portrait, in the vestry, of
"A young man in a clerical habit, or rather that of a student, with a motto beneath, 'Rapido
contrarium orbo'" (whether the motto, as thus given, is the printer's or the painter's error
does not appear), "supposed to be Abp. Sancroft when young.--Date 1650."

G.A.S.

Robertson of Muirtown (Vol. ii., p. 135.).--C.R.M. will find a pedigree of the family of Robertson
of Muirton in a small duodecimo entitled:

    "The History and Martial Atchievements of the Robertsons of
    Strowan. Edinburgh: printed for and by Alex. Robertson in
    Morison's Close; where Subscribers may call for their copies."

The date of publication is not given; I think, however, it must have been printed soon after
1st January 1771, which is the latest date in the body of the work.

The greater portion of the volume is occupied with the poems of Alexander Robertson of Strowan
who died in 1749.

A.R.X.

Paisley.

"Noli me tangere" (Vol. ii., p. 153.)--The following list of some of the painters of this subject
may assist B.R.:--

Timoteo delle Vite--for St. Angelo at Cogli.

Titian--formerly in the Orleans collection, and engraved by N. Tardieu, in the Crozat Gallery.

Ippolito Scarsella (Lo Scarsellino)--for St. Nicolo Ferrara.

Cristoforo Roncalli (Il Cav. delle Pomarance)--for the Eremitani at St. Severino.

Lucio Massari--for the Celestini, Bologna.

Francesco Boni (Il Gobbino)--for the Dominicani, Faenza.

I.Z.P.

Clergy sold for Slaves (Vol. ii., p. 51.),--MR. SANSOM will find in the Cromwellian Diary of
Thomas Burton, iv. 255. 273. 301-305., ample material for an answer to his question respecting
the sale of any of the loyal party for slaves during the rebellion.

There is no evidence of any clergymen having been sold as slaves to Algiers or Barbadoes. Drs.
Beale, Martin, and Sterne, heads of colleges, were threatened with this outrage (see Querela
Cantabrigiensis appended to the Mercurius Rusticus p. 184). In the life of Dr. John Barwick,
one of the authors of the Querela (in the Eng. transl. p. 42.), the story is thus told:

    "The rebels at that time threatened some of their greatest men
    and most learned heads (such as Dr William Beale, Dr. Edward
    Martin, and Dr. Richard Sterne) transportation into the isles of
    America, or even to the barbarian Turks: for these great men,
    and several other very eminent divines, were kept close
    prisoners in a ship on the Thames, under the hatches, almost
    killed with stench, hunger, and watching; and treated by the
    senseless mariners with more insolence than if they had been the
    vilest slaves, or had been confined there for some infamous
    robbery or murder. Nay, one Rigby, a scoundrel of the very dregs
    of the parliament rebels, did at that time expose these venerable
    persons to sale, and would actually have sold them for slaves,
    if any one would have bought them."

In a note, it is added that Rigby moved twice in the Long Parliament,

    "That those lords and gentlemen who were prisoners, should be
    sold as slaves to Argiere, or sent to the new plantations in the
    West Indies, because he had contracted with two merchants for
    that purpose."

Col. Rigby, so justly denounced by Barwick, sat in the Long Parliament for the borough of Wigan,
and in the Parliarment of 1658-9 represented Lancashire. He was a native of Preston, was bred
to the law, and held a colonel's rank in the parliamentary army. He was one of the committee
of sequestrators for Lancashire, served at the siege of Latham House, and in 1649 was created
Baron of the Exchequer, but was superseded by Cromwell.

Calamy, the historian and chaplain of the Nonconformists, treated Walker's statement quoted
by MR. SANSOM as a fiction, and advised him to expunge the passage. See his Church and Dissenters
compared as to Persecution, 1719, pp. 40, 41.

A.B.R.

North Side of Churchyards (Vol. ii., pp. 55. 189).--One of your writers has recently endeavoured
to explain the popular dislike to burial on the north side of the church, by reference to the
place of the churchyard cross, the sunniness, and the greater resort of the people to the south.
{254} These are not only meagre reasons, but they are incorrect.

The doctrine of regions was coeval with the death of Our Lord. The east was the realm of the
oracles; the especial Throne of God. The west was the domain of the people; the Galilee of
all nations was there. The south, the land of the mid-day, was sacred to things heavenly and
divine. The north was the devoted region of Satan and his hosts; the lair of demons, and their
haunt. In some of our ancient churches, over against the font, and in the northern walls, there
was a devil's door.

It was thrown open at every baptism for the escape of the fiend, and at all other seasons carefully
closed. Hence came the old dislike to sepulture at the north.

R.S. HAWKER.

Morwenstow, Cornwall.

Sir John Perrot (Vol. ii., p. 217.).--This Query surprises me. Sir John Perrot was not governor
of Ireland in the reign of Henry VIII., and your correspondent E.N.W. is mistaken in his belief
that Sir John was beheaded in the reign of Elizabeth. He was convicted of treason 16th June,
1592, and died in the Tower in September following. In the British Plutarch, 3rd edit., 1791,
vol. i. p. 121., is The Life of Sir John Perrot. The authorities given are Cox's History of
Ireland; Life of Sir John Perrot, 8vo., 1728; Biographia Britannica; Salmon's Chronological
History; to which I may add the following references:--

Howell's State Trials, i. 1315; Camden's Annals; Naunton's Fragmenta Regalia; Lloyd's State
Worthies; Nash's Worcestershire; Strype's Ecclesiastical Memorials, iii. 297.; Strype's Annals,
iii. 337, 398-404.; Stradling Letters, 48-50.; Nare's Life of Lord Burghley, iii. 407.; Fourth
Report of Deputy Keeper of Public Records, Appendix, ii. 281. Dean Swift, in his Introduction
to Polite Conversation, says,--

    "Sir John Perrot was the first man of quality whom I find upon
    the record to have sworn by God's wounds. He lived in the
    reign of Queen Elizabeth, and was supposed to be a natural son
    of Henry VIII., who might also have been his instructor."

C.H. COOPER

Cambridge, August 31. 1850.

