DE QUINCEY'S WRITINGS.

It is the intention of the publishers to issue, at intervals, a complete collection of Mr.
De Quincey's Writings, uniform with this volume. The first four volumes of the series will
contain,--

I. Confessions of an English Opium-Eater and Suspiria De Profundis.

II. Biographical Essays.

III. Miscellaneous Essays.

IV. The Cæsars.

MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS.

BY

THOMAS DE QUINCEY.

CONTENTS.

ON THE KNOCKING AT THE GATE, IN MACBETH

MURDER, CONSIDERED AS ONE OF THE FINE ARTS

SECOND PAPER ON MURDER

JOAN OF ARC

THE ENGLISH MAIL-COACH

THE VISION OF SUDDEN DEATH

DINNER, REAL AND REPUTED

ON

THE KNOCKING AT THE GATE,

IN MACBETH.

From my boyish days I had always felt a great perplexity on one point in Macbeth. It was this:
the knocking at the gate, which succeeds to the murder of Duncan, produced to my feelings an
effect for which I never could account. The effect was, that it reflected back upon the murder
a peculiar awfulness and a depth of solemnity; yet, however obstinately I endeavored with my
understanding to comprehend this, for many years I never could see why it should produce such
an effect.

Here I pause for one moment, to exhort the reader never to pay any attention to his understanding
when it stands in opposition to any other faculty of his mind. The mere understanding, however
useful and indispensable, is the meanest faculty in the human mind, and the most to be distrusted;
and yet the great majority of people trust to nothing else; which may do for ordinary life,
but not for philosophical purposes. Of this out of ten thousand instances that I might produce,
I will cite one. Ask of any person whatsoever, who is not previously prepared for the demand
by a knowledge of perspective, to draw in the rudest way the commonest appearance which depends
upon the laws of that science; as for instance, to represent the effect of two walls standing
at right angles to each other, or the appearance of the houses on each side of a street, as
seen by a person looking down the street from one extremity. Now in all cases, unless the person
has happened to observe in pictures how it is that artists produce these effects, he will be
utterly unable to make the smallest approximation to it. Yet why? For he has actually seen
the effect every day of his life. The reason is--that he allows his understanding to overrule
his eyes. His understanding, which includes no intuitive knowledge of the laws of vision, can
furnish him with no reason why a line which is known and can be proved to be a horizontal line,
should not appear a horizontal line; a line that made any angle with the perpendicular less
than a right angle, would seem to him to indicate that his houses were all tumbling down together.
Accordingly he makes the line of his houses a horizontal line, and fails of course to produce
the effect demanded. Here then is one instance out of many, in which not only the understanding
is allowed to overrule the eyes, but where the understanding is positively allowed to obliterate
the eyes as it were, for not only does the man believe the evidence of his understanding in
opposition to that of his eyes, but, (what is monstrous!) the idiot is not aware that his eyes
ever gave such evidence. He does not know that he has seen (and therefore quoad his consciousness
has not seen) that which he has seen every day of his life. But to return from this digression,
my understanding could furnish no reason why the knocking at the gate in Macbeth should produce
any effect, direct or reflected. In fact, my understanding said positively that it could not
produce any effect. But I knew better; I felt that it did; and I waited and clung to the problem
until further knowledge should enable me to solve it. At length, in 1812, Mr. Williams made
his début on the stage of Ratcliffe Highway, and executed those unparalleled murders which
have procured for him such a brilliant and undying reputation. On which murders, by the way,
I must observe, that in one respect they have had an ill effect, by making the connoisseur
in murder very fastidious in his taste, and dissatisfied by anything that has been since done
in that line. All other murders look pale by the deep crimson of his; and, as an amateur once
said to me in a querulous tone, "There has been absolutely nothing doing since his time, or
nothing that's worth speaking of." But this is wrong; for it is unreasonable to expect all
men to be great artists, and born with the genius of Mr. Williams. Now it will be remembered
that in the first of these murders, (that of the Marrs,) the same incident (of a knocking at
the door soon after the work of extermination was complete) did actually occur, which the genius
of Shakspeare has invented; and all good judges, and the most eminent dilettanti, acknowledged
the felicity of Shakspeare's suggestion as soon as it was actually realized. Here, then, was
a fresh proof that I was right in relying on my own feeling in opposition to my understanding;
and I again set myself to study the problem; at length I solved it to my own satisfaction;
and my solution is this. Murder in ordinary cases, where the sympathy is wholly directed to
the case of the murdered person, is an incident of coarse and vulgar horror; and for this reason,
that it flings the interest exclusively upon the natural but ignoble instinct by which we cleave
to life; an instinct, which, as being indispensable to the primal law of self-preservation,
is the same in kind, (though different in degree,) amongst all living creatures; this instinct
therefore, because it annihilates all distinctions, and degrades the greatest of men to the
level of "the poor beetle that we tread on," exhibits human nature in its most abject and humiliating
attitude. Such an attitude would little suit the purposes of the poet. What then must he do?
He must throw the interest on the murderer. Our sympathy must be with him; (of course I mean
a sympathy of comprehension, a sympathy by which we enter into his feelings, and are made to
understand them,--not a sympathy[1] of pity or approbation.) In the murdered person all strife
of thought, all flux and reflux of passion and of purpose, are crushed by one overwhelming
panic; the fear of instant death smites him "with its petrific mace." But in the murderer,
such a murderer as a poet will condescend to, there must be raging some great storm of passion,--jealousy,
ambition, vengeance, hatred,--which will create a hell within him; and into this hell we are
to look.

[Footnote 1: It seems almost ludicrous to guard and explain my use of a word in a situation
where it would naturally explain itself. But it has become necessary to do so, in consequence
of the unscholarlike use of the word sympathy, at present so general, by which, instead of
taking it in its proper sense, as the act of reproducing in our minds the feelings of another,
whether for hatred, indignation, love, pity, or approbation, it is made a mere synonyme of
the word pity; and hence, instead of saying "sympathy with another," many writers adopt the
monstrous barbarism of "sympathy for another."]

In Macbeth, for the sake of gratifying his own enormous and teeming faculty of creation, Shakspeare
has introduced two murderers: and, as usual in his hands, they are remarkably discriminated:
but, though in Macbeth the strife of mind is greater than in his wife, the tiger spirit not
so awake, and his feelings caught chiefly by contagion from her,--yet, as both were finally
involved in the guilt of murder, the murderous mind of necessity is finally to be presumed
in both. This was to be expressed; and on its own account, as well as to make it a more proportionable
antagonist to the unoffending nature of their victim, "the gracious Duncan," and adequately
to expound "the deep damnation of his taking off," this was to be expressed with peculiar energy.
We were to be made to feel that the human nature, i.e., the divine nature of love and mercy,
spread through the hearts of all creatures, and seldom utterly withdrawn from man,--was gone,
vanished, extinct; and that the fiendish nature had taken its place. And, as this effect is
marvellously accomplished in the dialogues and soliloquies themselves, so it is finally consummated
by the expedient under consideration; and it is to this that I now solicit the reader's attention.
If the reader has ever witnessed a wife, daughter, or sister, in a fainting fit, he may chance
to have observed that the most affecting moment in such a spectacle, is that in which a sigh
and a stirring announce the recommencement of suspended life. Or, if the reader has ever been
present in a vast metropolis, on the day when some great national idol was carried in funeral
pomp to his grave, and chancing to walk near the course through which it passed, has felt powerfully,
in the silence and desertion of the streets and in the stagnation of ordinary business, the
deep interest which at that moment was possessing the heart of man,--if all at once he should
hear the death-like stillness broken up by the sound of wheels rattling away from the scene,
and making known that the transitory vision was dissolved, he will be aware that at no moment
was his sense of the complete suspension and pause in ordinary human concerns so full and affecting,
as at that moment when the suspension ceases, and the goings-on of human life are suddenly
resumed. All action in any direction is best expounded, measured, and made apprehensible, by
reaction. Now apply this to the case in Macbeth. Here, as I have said, the retiring of the
human heart and the entrance of the fiendish heart was to be expressed and made sensible. Another
world has stepped in; and the murderers are taken out of the region of human things, human
purposes, human desires. They are transfigured: Lady Macbeth is "unsexed;" Macbeth has forgot
that he was born of woman; both are conformed to the image of devils; and the world of devils
is suddenly revealed. But how shall this be conveyed and made palpable? In order that a new
world may step in, this world must for a time disappear. The murderers, and the murder, must
be insulated--cut off by an immeasurable gulph from the ordinary tide and succession of human
affairs--locked up and sequestered in some deep recess; we must be made sensible that the world
of ordinary life is suddenly arrested--laid asleep--tranced--racked into a dread armistice:
time must be annihilated; relation to things without abolished; and all must pass self-withdrawn
into a deep syncope and suspension of earthly passion. Hence it is, that when the deed is done,
when the work of darkness is perfect, then the world of darkness passes away like a pageantry
in the clouds: the knocking at the gate is heard; and it makes known audibly that the reaction
has commenced: the human has made its reflux upon the fiendish; the pulses of life are beginning
to beat again; and the re-establishment of the goings-on of the world in which we live, first
makes us profoundly sensible of the awful parenthesis that had suspended them.

ON MURDER,

CONSIDERED AS ONE OF THE FINE ARTS.

TO THE EDITOR OF BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE.

SIR,--We have all heard of a Society for the Promotion of Vice, of the Hell-Fire Club, &c.
At Brighton, I think it was, that a Society was formed for the Suppression of Virtue. That
society was itself suppressed--but I am sorry to say that another exists in London, of a character
still more atrocious. In tendency, it may be denominated a Society for the Encouragement of
Murder; but, according to their own delicate [Greek: euphaemismos], it is styled--The Society
of Connoisseurs in Murder. They profess to be curious in homicide; amateurs and dilettanti
in the various modes of bloodshed; and, in short, Murder-Fanciers. Every fresh atrocity of
that class, which the police annals of Europe bring up, they meet and criticise as they would
a picture, statue, or other work of art. But I need not trouble myself with any attempt to
describe the spirit of their proceedings, as you will collect that much better from one of
the Monthly Lectures read before the society last year. This has fallen into my hands accidentally,
in spite of all the vigilance exercised to keep their transactions from the public eye. The
publication of it will alarm them; and my purpose is that it should. For I would much rather
put them down quietly, by an appeal to public opinion through you, than by such an exposure
of names as would follow an appeal to Bow Street; which last appeal, however, if this should
fail, I must positively resort to. For it is scandalous that such things should go on in a
Christian land. Even in a heathen land, the toleration of murder was felt by a Christian writer
to be the most crying reproach of the public morals. This writer was Lactantius; and with his
words, as singularly applicable to the present occasion, I shall conclude: "Quid tam horribile,"
says he, "tam tetrum, quam hominis trucidatio? Ideo severissimis legibus vita nostra munitur;
ideo bella execrabilia sunt. Invenit tamen consuetudo quatenus homicidium sine bello ac sine
legibus faciat: et hoc sibi voluptas quod scelus vindicavit. Quod si interesse homicidio sceleris
conscientia est,--et eidem facinori spectator obstrictus est cui et admissor; ergo et in his
gladiatorum cædibus non minus cruore profunditur qui spectat, quam ille qui facit: nec potest
esse immunis à sanguine qui voluit effundi; aut videri non interfecisse, qui interfectori et
favit et proemium postulavit." "Human life," says he, "is guarded by laws of the uttermost
rigor, yet custom has devised a mode of evading them in behalf of murder; and the demands of
taste (voluptas) are now become the same as those of abandoned guilt." Let the Society of Gentlemen
Amateurs consider this; and let me call their especial attention to the last sentence, which
is so weighty, that I shall attempt to convey it in English: "Now, if merely to be present
at a murder fastens on a man the character of an accomplice; if barely to be a spectator involves
us in one common guilt with the perpetrator; it follows of necessity, that, in these murders
of the amphitheatre, the hand which inflicts the fatal blow is not more deeply imbrued in blood
than his who sits and looks on: neither can he be clear of blood who has countenanced its shedding;
nor that man seem other than a participator in murder who gives his applause to the murderer,
and calls for prizes in his behalf." The "præmia postulavit" I have not yet heard charged upon
the Gentlemen Amateurs of London, though undoubtedly their proceedings tend to that; but the
"interfectori favil" is implied in the very title of this association, and expressed in every
line of the lecture which I send you.

I am, &c. X. Y. Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

LECTURE.

GENTLEMEN,--I have had the honor to be appointed by your committee to the trying task of reading
the Williams' Lecture on Murder, considered as one of the Fine Arts; a task which might be
easy enough three or four centuries ago, when the art was little understood, and few great
models had been exhibited; but in this age, when masterpieces of excellence have been executed
by professional men, it must be evident, that in the style of criticism applied to them, the
public will look for something of a corresponding improvement. Practice and theory must advance
pari passu. People begin to see that something more goes to the composition of a fine murder
than two blockheads to kill and be killed--a knife--a purse--and a dark lane. Design, gentlemen,
grouping, light and shade, poetry, sentiment, are now deemed indispensable to attempts of this
nature. Mr. Williams has exalted the ideal of murder to all of us; and to me, therefore, in
particular, has deepened the arduousness of my task. Like Æschylus or Milton in poetry, like
Michael Angelo in painting, he has carried his art to a point of colossal sublimity; and, as
Mr. Wordsworth observes, has in a manner "created the taste by which he is to be enjoyed."
To sketch the history of the art, and to examine its principles critically, now remains as
a duty for the connoisseur, and for judges of quite another stamp from his Majesty's Judges
of Assize.

Before I begin, let me say a word or two to certain prigs, who affect to speak of our society
as if it were in some degree immoral in its tendency. Immoral! God bless my soul, gentlemen,
what is it that people mean? I am for morality, and always shall be, and for virtue and all
that; and I do affirm, and always shall, (let what will come of it,) that murder is an improper
line of conduct, highly improper; and I do not stick to assert, that any man who deals in murder,
must have very incorrect ways of thinking, and truly inaccurate principles; and so far from
aiding and abetting him by pointing out his victim's hiding-place, as a great moralist[1] of
Germany declared it to be every good man's duty to do, I would subscribe one shilling and sixpense
to have him apprehended, which is more by eighteen-pence than the most eminent moralists have
subscribed for that purpose. But what then? Everything in this world has two handles. Murder,
for instance, may be laid hold of by its moral handle, (as it generally is in the pulpit, and
at the Old Bailey;) and that, I confess, is its weak side; or it may also be treated æsthetically,
as the Germans call it, that is, in relation to good taste.

[Footnote 1: Kant--who carried his demands of unconditional veracity to so extravagant a length
as to affirm, that, if a man were to see an innocent person escape from a murderer, it would
be his duty, on being questioned by the murderer, to tell the truth, and to point out the retreat
of the innocent person, under any certainty of causing murder. Lest this doctrine should be
supposed to have escaped him in any heat of dispute, on being taxed with it by a celebrated
French writer, he solemnly reaffirmed it, with his reasons.]

To illustrate this, I will urge the authority of three eminent persons, viz., S.T. Coleridge,
Aristotle, and Mr. Howship the surgeon. To begin with S.T.C. One night, many years ago, I was
drinking tea with him in Berners' Street, (which, by the way, for a short street, has been
uncommonly fruitful in men of genius.) Others were there besides myself; and amidst some carnal
considerations of tea and toast, we were all imbibing a dissertation on Plotinus from the attic
lips of S.T.C. Suddenly a cry arose of "Fire--fire!" upon which all of us, master and disciples,
Plato and [Greek: hoi peri ton Platona], rushed out, eager for the spectacle. The fire was
in Oxford Street, at a piano-forte maker's; and, as it promised to be a conflagration of merit,
I was sorry that my engagements forced me away from Mr. Coleridge's party before matters were
come to a crisis. Some days after, meeting with my Platonic host, I reminded him of the case,
and begged to know how that very promising exhibition had terminated. "Oh, sir," said he, "it
turned out so ill, that we damned it unanimously." Now, does any man suppose that Mr. Coleridge,--who,
for all he is too fat to be a person of active virtue, is undoubtedly a worthy Christian,--that
this good S. T. C., I say, was an incendiary, or capable of wishing any ill to the poor man
and his piano-fortes (many of them, doubtless, with the additional keys)? On the contrary,
I know him to be that sort of man, that I durst stake my life upon it he would have worked
an engine in a case of necessity, although rather of the fattest for such fiery trials of his
virtue. But how stood the case? Virtue was in no request. On the arrival of the fire-engines,
morality had devolved wholly on the insurance office. This being the case, he had a right to
gratify his taste. He had left his tea. Was he to have nothing in return?

I contend that the most virtuous man, under the premises stated, was entitled to make a luxury
of the fire, and to hiss it, as he would any other performance that raised expectations in
the public mind, which afterwards it disappointed. Again, to cite another great authority,
what says the Stagyrite? He (in the Fifth Book, I think it is, of his Metaphysics) describes
what he calls [Greek: kleptaen teleion], i.e., a perfect thief; and, as to Mr. Howship, in
a work of his on Indigestion, he makes no scruple to talk with admiration of a certain ulcer
which he had seen, and which he styles "a beautiful ulcer." Now will any man pretend, that,
abstractedly considered, a thief could appear to Aristotle a perfect character, or that Mr.
Howship could be enamored of an ulcer? Aristotle, it is well known, was himself so very moral
a character, that, not content with writing his Nichomachean Ethics, in one volume octavo,
he also wrote another system, called Magna Moralia, or Big Ethics. Now, it is impossible that
a man who composes any ethics at all, big or little, should admire a thief per se, and, as
to Mr. Howship, it is well known that he makes war upon all ulcers; and, without suffering
himself to be seduced by their charms, endeavors to banish them from the county of Middlesex.
But the truth is, that, however objectionable per se, yet, relatively to others of their class,
both a thief and an ulcer may have infinite degrees of merit. They are both imperfections,
it is true; but to be imperfect being their essence, the very greatness of their imperfection
becomes their perfection. Spartam nactus es, hunc exorna. A thief like Autolycus or Mr. Barrington,
and a grim phagedænic ulcer, superbly defined, and running regularly through all its natural
stages, may no less justly be regarded as ideals after their kind, than the most faultless
moss-rose amongst flowers, in its progress from bud to "bright consummate flower;" or, amongst
human flowers, the most magnificent young female, apparelled in the pomp of womanhood. And
thus not only the ideal of an inkstand may be imagined, (as Mr. Coleridge demonstrated in his
celebrated correspondence with Mr. Blackwood,) in which, by the way, there is not so much,
because an inkstand is a laudable sort of thing, and a valuable member of society; but even
imperfection itself may have its ideal or perfect state.

Really, gentlemen, I beg pardon for so much philosophy at one time, and now let me apply it.
When a murder is in the paulo-post-futurum tense, and a rumor of it comes to our ears, by all
means let us treat it morally. But suppose it over and done, and that you can say of it,[Greek:
Tetelesai], or (in that adamantine molossus of Medea) [Greek: eirzasai]; suppose the poor murdered
man to be out of his pain, and the rascal that did it off like a shot, nobody knows whither;
suppose, lastly, that we have done our best, by putting out our legs to trip up the fellow
in his flight, but all to no purpose--"abiit, evasit," &c.--why, then, I say, what's the use
of any more virtue? Enough has been given to morality; now comes the turn of Taste and the
Fine Arts. A sad thing it was, no doubt, very sad; but we can't mend it. Therefore let us make
the best of a bad matter; and, as it is impossible to hammer anything out of it for moral purposes,
let us treat it æsthetically, and see if it will turn to account in that way. Such is the logic
of a sensible man, and what follows? We dry up our tears, and have the satisfaction, perhaps,
to discover that a transaction, which, morally considered, was shocking, and without a leg
to stand upon, when tried by principles of Taste, turns out to be a very meritorious performance.
Thus all the world is pleased; the old proverb is justified, that it is an ill wind which blows
nobody good; the amateur, from looking bilious and sulky, by too close an attention to virtue,
begins to pick up his crumbs, and general hilarity prevails. Virtue has had her day; and henceforward,
Vertu and Connoisseurship have leave to provide for themselves. Upon this principle, gentlemen,
I propose to guide your studies, from Cain to Mr. Thurtell. Through this great gallery of murder,
therefore, together let us wander hand in hand, in delighted admiration, while I endeavor to
point your attention to the objects of profitable criticism.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first murder is familiar to you all. As the inventor of murder, and the father of the art,
Cain must have been a man of first-rate genius. All the Cains were men of genius. Tubal Cain
invented tubes, I think, or some such thing. But, whatever were the originality and genius
of the artist, every art was then in its infancy, and the works must be criticised with a recollection
of that fact. Even Tubal's work would probably be little approved at this day in Sheffield;
and therefore of Cain (Cain senior, I mean,) it is no disparagement to say, that his performance
was but so so. Milton, however, is supposed to have thought differently. By his way of relating
the case, it should seem to have been rather a pet murder with him, for he retouches it with
an apparent anxiety for its picturesque effect:

  Whereat he inly raged; and, as they talk'd,
  Smote him into the midriff with a stone
  That beat out life: he fell; and, deadly pale,
  Groan'd out his soul with gushing blood effus'd.
  Par. Lost, B. XI.

Upon this, Richardson, the painter, who had an eye for effect, remarks as follows, in his Notes
on Paradise Lost, p. 497: "It has been thought," says he, "that Cain beat (as the common saying
is) the breath out of his brother's body with a great stone; Milton gives in to this, with
the addition, however, of a large wound." In this place it was a judicious addition; for the
rudeness of the weapon, unless raised and enriched by a warm, sanguinary coloring, has too
much of the naked air of the savage school; as if the deed were perpetrated by a Polypheme
without science, premeditation, or anything but a mutton bone. However, I am chiefly pleased
with the improvement, as it implies that Milton was an amateur. As to Shakspeare, there never
was a better; as his description of the murdered Duke of Gloucester, in Henry VI., of Duncan's,
Banquo's, &c., sufficiently proves.

The foundation of the art having been once laid, it is pitiable to see how it slumbered without
improvement for ages. In fact, I shall now be obliged to leap over all murders, sacred and
profane, as utterly unworthy of notice, until long after the Christian era. Greece, even in
the age of Pericles, produced no murder of the slightest merit; and Rome had too little originality
of genius in any of the arts to succeed, where her model failed her. In fact, the Latin language
sinks under the very idea of murder. "The man was murdered;"--how will this sound in Latin?
Interfectus est, interemptus est--which simply expresses a homicide; and hence the Christian
Latinity of the middle ages was obliged to introduce a new word, such as the feebleness of
classic conceptions never ascended to. Murdratus est, says the sublimer dialect of Gothic ages.
Meantime, the Jewish, school of murder kept alive whatever was yet known in the art, and gradually
transferred it to the Western World. Indeed the Jewish school was always respectable, even
in the dark ages, as the case of Hugh of Lincoln shows, which was honored with the approbation
of Chaucer, on occasion of another performance from the same school, which he puts into the
mouth of the Lady Abbess.

Recurring, however, for one moment to classical antiquity, I cannot but think that Catiline,
Clodius, and some of that coterie, would have made first-rate artists; and it is on all accounts
to be regretted, that the priggism of Cicero robbed his country of the only chance she had
for distinction in this line. As the subject of a murder, no person could have answered better
than himself. Lord! how he would have howled with panic, if he had heard Cethegus under his
bed. It would have been truly diverting to have listened to him; and satisfied I am, gentlemen,
that he would have preferred the utile of creeping into a closet, or even into a cloaca, to
the honestum of facing the bold artist.

To come now to the dark ages--(by which we, that speak with precision, mean, par excellence,
the tenth century, and the times immediately before and after)--these ages ought naturally
to be favorable to the art of murder, as they were to church architecture, to stained glass,
&c.; and, accordingly, about the latter end of this period, there arose a great character in
our art, I mean the Old Man of the Mountains. He was a shining light, indeed, and I need not
tell you, that the very word "assassin" is deduced from him. So keen an amateur was he, that
on one occasion, when his own life was attempted by a favorite assassin, he was so much pleased
with the talent shown, that notwithstanding the failure of the artist, he created him a duke
upon the spot, with remainder to the female line, and settled a pension on him for three lives.
Assassination is a branch of the art which demands a separate notice; and I shall devote an
entire lecture to it. Meantime, I shall only observe how odd it is, that this branch of the
art has flourished by fits. It never rains, but it pours. Our own age can boast of some fine
specimens; and, about two centuries ago, there was a most brilliant constellation of murders
in this class. I need hardly say, that I allude especially to those five splendid works,--the
assassinations of William I, of Orange, of Henry IV., of France, of the Duke of Buckingham,
(which you will find excellently described in the letters published by Mr. Ellis, of the British
Museum,) of Gustavus Adolphus, and of Wallenstein. The King of Sweden's assassination, by the
by, is doubted by many writers, Harte amongst others; but they are wrong. He was murdered;
and I consider his murder unique in its excellence; for he was murdered at noon-day, and on
the field of battle,--a feature of original conception, which occurs in no other work of art
that I remember. Indeed, all of these assassinations may be studied with profit by the advanced
connoisseur. They are all of them exemplaria, of which one may say,--

  Nociurnâ versatâ manu, versate diurne;

Especially nocturnâ.

In these assassinations of princes and statesmen, there is nothing to excite our wonder; important
changes often depend on their deaths; and, from the eminence on which they stand, they are
peculiarly exposed to the aim of every artist who happens to be possessed by the craving for
scenical effect. But there is another class of assassinations, which has prevailed from an
early period of the seventeenth century, that really does surprise me; I mean the assassination
of philosophers. For, gentlemen, it is a fact, that every philosopher of eminence for the two
last centuries has either been murdered, or, at the least, been very near it; insomuch, that
if a man calls himself a philosopher, and never had his life attempted, rest assured there
is nothing in him; and against Locke's philosophy in particular, I think it an unanswerable
objection (if we needed any), that, although he carried his throat about with him in this world
for seventy-two years, no man ever condescended to cut it. As these cases of philosophers are
not much known, and are generally good and well composed in their circumstances, I shall here
read an excursus on that subject, chiefly by way of showing my own learning.

The first great philosopher of the seventeenth century (if we except Galileo) was Des Cartes;
and if ever one could say of a man that he was all but murdered--murdered within an inch--one
must say it of him. The case was this, as reported by Baillet in his Vie De M. Des Cartes,
tom. I. p. 102-3. In the year 1621, when Des Cartes might be about twenty-six years old, he
was touring about as usual, (for he was as restless as a hyæna,) and, coming to the Elbe, either
at Gluckstadt or at Hamburgh, he took shipping for East Friezland: what he could want in East
Friezland no man has ever discovered; and perhaps he took this into consideration himself;
for, on reaching Embden, he resolved to sail instantly for West Friezland; and being very impatient
of delay, he hired a bark, with a few mariners to navigate it. No sooner had he got out to
sea than he made a pleasing discovery, viz. that he had shut himself up in a den of murderers.
His crew, says M. Baillet, he soon found out to be "des scélérats,"--not amateurs, gentlemen,
as we are, but professional men--the height of whose ambition at that moment was to cut his
throat. But the story is too pleasing to be abridged; I shall give it, therefore, accurately,
from the French of his biographer: "M. Des Cartes had no company but that of his servant, with
whom he was conversing in French. The sailors, who took him for a foreign merchant, rather
than a cavalier, concluded that he must have money about him. Accordingly they came to a resolution
by no means advantageous to his purse. There is this difference, however, between sea-robbers
and the robbers in forests, that the latter may, without hazard, spare the lives of their victims;
whereas the other cannot put a passenger on shore in such a case without running the risk of
being apprehended. The crew of M. Des Cartes arranged their measures with a view to evade any
danger of that sort. They observed that he was a stranger from a distance, without acquaintance
in the country, and that nobody would take any trouble to inquire about him, in case he should
never come to hand, (quand il viendroit à manquer.") Think, gentlemen, of these Friezland dogs
discussing a philosopher as if he were a puncheon of rum. "His temper, they remarked, was very
mild and patient; and, judging from the gentleness of his deportment, and the courtesy with
which he treated themselves, that he could be nothing more than some green young man, they
concluded that they should have all the easier task in disposing of his life. They made no
scruple to discuss the whole matter in his presence, as not supposing that he understood any
other language than that in which he conversed with his servant; and the amount of their deliberation
was--to murder him, then to throw him into the sea, and to divide his spoils."

Excuse my laughing, gentlemen, but the fact is, I always do laugh when I think of this case--two
things about it seem so droll. One, is, the horrid panic or "funk," (as the men of Eton call
it,) in which Des Cartes must have found himself upon hearing this regular drama sketched for
his own death--funeral--succession and administration to his effects. But another thing, which
seems to me still more funny about this affair is, that if these Friezland hounds had been
"game," we should have no Cartesian philosophy; and how we could have done without that, considering
the worlds of books it has produced, I leave to any respectable trunk-maker to declare.

However, to go on; spite of his enormous funk, Des Cartes showed fight, and by that means awed
these Anti-Cartesian rascals. "Finding," says M. Baillet, "that the matter was no joke, M.
Des Cartes leaped upon his feet in a trice, assumed a stern countenance that these cravens
had never looked for, and addressing them in their own language, threatened to run them through
on the spot if they dared to offer him any insult." Certainly, gentlemen, this would have been
an honor far above the merits of such inconsiderable rascals--to be spitted like larks upon
a Cartesian sword; and therefore I am glad M. Des Cartes did not rob the gallows by executing
his threat, especially as he could not possibly have brought his vessel to port, after he had
murdered his crew; so that he must have continued to cruise for ever in the Zuyder Zee, and
would probably have been mistaken by sailors for the Flying Dutchman, homeward bound. "The
spirit which M. Des Cartes manifested," says his biographer, "had the effect of magic on these
wretches. The suddenness of their consternation struck their minds with a confusion which blinded
them to their advantage, and they conveyed him to his destination as peaceably as he could desire."

Possibly, gentlemen, you may fancy that, on the model of Cæsar's address to his poor ferryman,--"Cæsarem
vehis et fortunas ejus"--M. Des Cartes needed only to have said,--"Dogs, you cannot cut my
throat, for you carry Des Cartes and his philosophy," and might safely have defied them to
do their worst. A German emperor had the same notion, when, being cautioned to keep out of
the way of a cannonading, he replied, "Tut! man. Did you ever hear of a cannon-ball that killed
an emperor?" As to an emperor I cannot say, but a less thing has sufficed to smash a philosoper;
and the next great philosopher of Europe undoubtedly was murdered. This was Spinosa.

I know very well the common opinion about him is, that he died in his bed. Perhaps he did,
but he was murdered for all that; and this I shall prove by a book published at Brussels, in
the year 1731, entitled, La Via de Spinosa; Par M. Jean Colerus, with many additions, from
a MS. life, by one of his friends. Spinosa died on the 21st February, 1677, being then little
more than forty-four years old. This of itself looks suspicious; and M. Jean admits, that a
certain expression in the MS. life of him would warrant the conclusion, "que sa mort n'a pas
été tout-à-fait naturelle." Living in a damp country, and a sailor's country, like Holland,
he may be thought to have indulged a good deal in grog, especially in punch,[1] which was then
newly discovered. Undoubtedly he might have done so; but the fact is that he did not. M. Jean
calls him "extrêmement sobre en son boire et en son manger." And though some wild stories were
afloat about his using the juice of mandragora (p. 140,) and opium, (p. 144,) yet neither of
these articles appeared in his druggist's bill. Living, therefore, with such sobriety, how
was it possible that he should die a natural death at forty-four? Hear his biographer's account:--"Sunday
morning the 21st of February, before it was church time, Spinosa came down stairs and conversed
with the master and mistress of the house." At this time, therefore, perhaps ten o'clock on
Sunday morning, you see that Spinosa was alive, and pretty well. But it seems "he had summoned
from Amsterdam a certain physician, whom," says the biographer, "I shall not otherwise point
out to notice than by these two letters, L.M. This L.M. had directed the people of the house
to purchase an ancient cock, and to have him boiled forthwith, in order that Spinosa might
take some broth about noon, which in fact he did, and ate some of the old cock with a good
appetite, after the landlord and his wife had returned from church.

[Footnote 1: "June 1, 1675.--Drinke part of 3 boules of punch, (a liquor very strainge to me,)"
says the Rev. Mr. Henry Teonge, in his Diary lately published. In a note on this passage, a
reference is made to Fryer's Travels to the East Indies, 1672, who speaks of "that enervating
liquor called Paunch, (which is Indostan for five,) from five ingredients." Made thus, it seems
the medical men called it Diapente; if with four only, Diatessaron. No doubt, it was its Evangelical
name that recommended it to the Rev. Mr. Teonge.]

"In the afternoon, L.M. staid alone with Spinosa, the people of the house having returned to
church; on coming out from which they learnt, with much surprise, that Spinosa had died about
three o'clock, in the presence of L.M., who took his departure for Amsterdam the same evening,
by the night-boat, without paying the least attention to the deceased. No doubt he was the
readier to dispense with these duties, as he had possessed himself of a ducatoon and a small
quantity of silver, together with a silver-hafted knife, and had absconded with his pillage."
Here you see, gentlemen, the murder is plain, and the manner of it. It was L.M. who murdered
Spinosa for his money. Poor S. was an invalid, meagre, and weak: as no blood was observed,
L.M., no doubt, threw him down and smothered him with pillows,--the poor man being already
half suffocated by his infernal dinner. But who was L.M.? It surely never could be Lindley
Murray; for I saw him at York in 1825; and besides, I do not think he Would do such a thing;
at least, not to a brother grammarian: for you know, gentlemen, that Spinosa wrote a very respectable
Hebrew grammar.

Hobbes, but why, or on what principle, I never could understand, was not murdered. This was
a capital oversight of the professional men in the seventeenth century; because in every light
he was a fine subject for murder, except, indeed, that he was lean and skinny; for I can prove
that he had money, and (what is very funny,) he had no right to make the least resistance;
for, according to himself, irresistible power creates the very highest species of right, so
that it is rebellion of the blackest die to refuse to be murdered, when a competent force appears
to murder you. However, gentlemen, though he was not murdered, I am happy to assure you that
(by his own account) he was three times very near being murdered. The first time was in the
spring of 1640, when he pretends to have circulated a little MS. on the king's behalf, against
the Parliament; he never could produce this MS., by the by; but he says that, "Had not his
Majesty dissolved the Parliament," (in May,) "it had brought him into danger of his life."
Dissolving the Parliament, however, was of no use; for, in November of the same year, the Long
Parliament assembled, and Hobbes, a second time, fearing he should be murdered, ran away to
France. This looks like the madness of John Dennis, who thought that Louis XIV. would never
make peace with Queen Anne, unless he were given up to his vengeance; and actually ran away
from the sea-coast in that belief. In France, Hobbes managed to take care of his throat pretty
well for ten years; but at the end of that time, by way of paying court to Cromwell, he published
his Leviathan. The old coward now began to "funk" horribly for the third time; he fancied the
swords of the cavaliers were constantly at his throat, recollecting how they had served the
Parliament ambassadors at the Hague and Madrid. "Turn," says he, in his dog-Latin life of himself,

  "Tum venit in mentem mihi Dorislaus et Ascham;
  Tanquam proscripto terror ubique aderat."

And accordingly he ran home to England. Now, certainly, it is very true that a man deserved
a cudgelling for writing Leviathan; and two or three cudgellings for writing a pentameter ending
so villanously as--"terror ubique aderat!" But no man ever thought him worthy of anything beyond
cudgelling. And, in fact, the whole story is a bounce of his own. For, in a most abusive letter
which he wrote "to a learned person," (meaning Wallis the mathematician,) he gives quite another
account of the matter, and says (p. 8,) he ran home "because he would not trust his safety
with the French clergy;" insinuating that he was likely to be murdered for his religion, which
would have been a high joke indeed--Tom's being brought to the stake for religion.

Bounce or not bounce, however, certain it is, that Hobbes, to the end of his life, feared that
somebody would murder him. This is proved by the story I am going to tell you: it is not from
a manuscript, but, (as Mr. Coleridge says,) it is as good as manuscript; for it comes from
a book now entirely forgotten, viz., "The Creed of Mr. Hobbes Examined; in a Conference between
him and a Student in Divinity," (published about ten years before Hobbes's death.) The book
is anonymous, but it was written by Tennison, the same who, about thirty years after, succeeded
Tillotson as Archbishop of Canterbury. The introductory anecdote is as follows: "A certain
divine, it seems, (no doubt Tennison himself,) took an annual tour of one month to different
parts of the island. In one of these excursions (1670) he visited the Peak in Derbyshire, partly
in consequence of Hobbes's description of it. Being in that neighborhood, he could not but
pay a visit to Buxton; and at the very moment of his arrival, he was fortunate enough to find
a party of gentlemen dismounting at the inn door, amongst whom was a long thin fellow, who
turned out to be no less a person than Mr. Hobbes, who probably had ridden over from Chattsworth.
Meeting so great a lion,--a tourist, in search of the picturesque, could do no less than present
himself in the character of bore. And luckily for this scheme, two of Mr. Hobbes's companions
were suddenly summoned away by express; so that, for the rest of his stay at Buxton, he had
Leviathan entirely to himself, and had the honor of bowsing with him in the evening. Hobbes,
it seems, at first showed a good deal of stiffness, for he was shy of divines; but this wore
off, and he became very sociable and funny, and they agreed to go into the bath together. How
Tennison could venture to gambol in the same water with Leviathan, I cannot explain; but so
it was: they frolicked about like two dolphins, though Hobbes must have been as old as the
hills; and "in those intervals wherein they abstained from swimming and plunging themselves,"
[i.e., diving,] "they discoursed of many things relating to the Baths of the Ancients, and
the Origine of Springs. When they had in this manner passed away an hour, they stepped out
of the bath; and, having dried and cloathed themselves, they sate down in expectation of such
a supper as the place afforded; designing to refresh themselves like the Deipnosophilæ, and
rather to reason than to drink profoundly. But in this innocent intention they were interrupted
by the disturbance arising from a little quarrel, in which some of the ruder people in the
house were for a short time engaged. At this Mr. Hobbes seemed much concerned, though he was
at some distance from the persons." And why was he concerned, gentlemen? No doubt you fancy,
from, some benign and disinterested love of peace and harmony, worthy of an old man and a philosopher.
But listen--"For a while he was not composed, but related it once or twice as to himself, with
a low and careful tone, how Sextus Roscius was murthered after supper by the Balneæ Palatinæ.
Of such general extent is that remark of Cicero, in relation to Epicurus the Atheist, of whom
he observed that he of all men dreaded most those things which he contemned--Death and the
Gods." Merely because it was supper time, and in the neighborhood of a bath, Mr. Hobbes must
have the fate of Sextus Roscius. What logic was there in this, unless to a man who was always
dreaming of murder? Here was Leviathan, no longer afraid of the daggers of English cavaliers
or French clergy, but "frightened from his propriety" by a row in an ale-house between some
honest clod-hoppers of Derbyshire, whom his own gaunt scare-crow of a person that belonged
to quite another century, would have frightened out of their wits.

Malebranche, it will give you pleasure to hear, was murdered. The man who murdered him is well
known: it was Bishop Berkeley. The story is familiar, though hitherto not put in a proper light.
Berkeley, when a young man, went to Paris and called on Père Malebranche. He found him in his
cell cooking. Cooks have ever been a genus irritabile; authors still more so: Malebranche was
both: a dispute arose; the old father, warm already, became warmer; culinary and metaphysical
irritations united to derange his liver: he took to his bed, and died. Such is the common version
of the story: "So the whole ear of Denmark is abused." The fact is, that the matter was hushed
up, out of consideration for Berkeley, who (as Pope remarked) had "every virtue under heaven:"
else it was well known that Berkeley, feeling himself nettled by the waspishness of the old
Frenchman, squared at him; a turn-up was the consequence: Malebranche was floored in the first
round; the conceit was wholly taken out of him; and he would perhaps have given in; but Berkeley's
blood was now up, and he insisted on the old Frenchman's retracting his doctrine of Occasional
Causes. The vanity of the man was too great for this; and he fell a sacrifice to the impetuosity
of Irish youth, combined with his own absurd obstinacy.

Leibnitz, being every way superior to Malebranche, one might, a fortiori, have counted on his
being murdered; which, however, was not the case. I believe he was nettled at this neglect,
and felt himself insulted by the security in which he passed his days. In no other way can
I explain his conduct at the latter end of his life, when he chose to grow very avaricious,
and to hoard up large sums of gold, which he kept in his own house. This was at Vienna, where
he died; and letters are still in existence, describing the immeasurable anxiety which he entertained
for his throat. Still his ambition, for being attempted at least, was so great, that he would
not forego the danger. A late English pedagogue, of Birmingham manufacture, viz., Dr. Parr,
took a more selfish course, under the same circumstances. He had amassed a considerable quantity
of gold and silver plate, which was for some time deposited in his bed-room at his parsonage
house, Hatton. But growing every day more afraid of being murdered, which he knew that he could
not stand, (and to which, indeed, he never had the slightest pretension,) he transferred the
whole to the Hatton blacksmith; conceiving, no doubt, that the murder of a blacksmith would
fall more lightly on the salus reipublicæ, than that of a pedagogue. But I have heard this
greatly disputed; and it seems now generally agreed, that one good horse-shoe is worth about
2 1/4 Spital sermons.

As Leibnitz, though not murdered, may be said to have died, partly of the fear that he should
be murdered, and partly of vexation that he was not,--Kant, on the other hand--who had no ambition
in that way--had a narrower escape from a murderer than any man we read of, except Des Cartes.
So absurdly does fortune throw about her favors! The case is told, I think, in an anonymous
life of this very great man. For health's sake, Kant imposed upon himself, at one time, a walk
of six miles every day along a highroad. This fact becoming known to a man who had his private
reasons for committing murder, at the third milestone from Königsberg, he waited for his "intended,"
who came up to time as duly as a mail-coach. But for an accident, Kant was a dead man. However,
on considerations of "morality," it happened that the murderer preferred a little child, whom
he saw playing in the road, to the old transcendentalist: this child he murdered; and thus
it happened that Kant escaped. Such is the German account of the matter; but my opinion is--that
the murderer was an amateur, who felt how little would be gained to the cause of good taste
by murdering an old, arid, and adust metaphysician; there was no room for display, as the man
could not possibly look more like a mummy when dead, than he had done alive.

Thus, gentlemen, I have traced the connection between philosophy and our art, until insensibly
I find that I have wandered into our own era. This I shall not take any pains to characterize
apart from that which preceded it, for, in fact, they have no distinct character. The seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries, together with so much of the nineteenth as we have yet seen, jointly
compose the Augustan age of murder. The finest work of the seventeenth century is, unquestionably,
the murder of Sir Edmondbury Godfrey, which has my entire approbation. At the same time, it
must be observed, that the quantity of murder was not great in this century, at least amongst
our own artists; which, perhaps, is attributable to the want of enlightened patronage. Sint
Mæcenates, non deerunt, Flacce, Marones. Consulting Grant's "Observations on the Bills of Mortality,"
(4th edition, Oxford, 1665,) I find, that out of 229,250, who died in London during one period
of twenty years in the seventeenth century, not more than eighty-six were murdered; that is,
about four three-tenths per annum. A small number this, gentlemen, to found an academy upon;
and certainly, where the quantity is so small, we have a right to expect that the quality should
be first-rate. Perhaps it was; yet, still I am of opinion that the best artist in this century
was not equal to the best in that which followed. For instance, however praiseworthy the case
of Sir Edmondbury Godfrey may be (and nobody can be more sensible of its merits than I am),
still I cannot consent to place it on a level with that of Mrs. Ruscombe of Bristol, either
as to originality of design, or boldness and breadth of style. This good lady's murder took
place early in the reign of George III., a reign which was notoriously favorable to the arts
generally. She lived in College Green, with a single maid-servant, neither of them having any
pretension to the notice of history but what they derived from the great artist whose workmanship
I am recording. One fine morning, when all Bristol was alive and in motion, some suspicion
arising, the neighbors forced an entrance into the house, and found Mrs. Ruscombe murdered
in her bed-room, and the servant murdered on the stairs: this was at noon; and, not more than
two hours before, both mistress and servant had been seen alive. To the best of my remembrance,
this was in 1764; upwards of sixty years, therefore, have now elapsed, and yet the artist is
still undiscovered. The suspicions of posterity have settled upon two pretenders--a baker and
a chimney-sweeper. But posterity is wrong; no unpractised artist could have conceived so bold
an idea as that of a noon-day murder in the heart of a great city. It was no obscure baker,
gentlemen, or anonymous chimney-sweeper, be assured, that executed this work. I know who it
was. (Here there was a general buzz, which at length broke out into open applause; upon which
the lecturer blushed, and went on with much earnestness.) For Heaven's sake, gentlemen, do
not mistake me; it was not I that did it. I have not the vanity to think myself equal to any
such achievement; be assured that you greatly overrate my poor talents; Mrs. Ruscombe's affair
was far beyond my slender abilities. But I came to know who the artist was, from a celebrated
surgeon, who assisted at his dissection. This gentleman had a private museum in the way of
his profession, one corner of which was occupied by a cast from a man of remarkably fine proportions.

"That," said the surgeon, "is a cast from the celebrated Lancashire highwayman, who concealed
his profession for some time from his neighbors, by drawing woollen stockings over his horse's
legs, and in that way muffling the clatter which he must else have made in riding up a flagged
alley that led to his stable. At the time of his execution for highway robbery, I was studying
under Cruickshank: and the man's figure was so uncommonly fine, that no money or exertion was
spared to get into possession of him with the least possible delay. By the connivance of the
under-sheriff he was cut down within the legal time, and instantly put into a chaise and four;
so that, when he reached Cruickshank's he was positively not dead. Mr. ----, a young student
at that time, had the honor of giving him the coup de grâce, and finishing the sentence of
the law." This remarkable anecdote, which seemed to imply that all the gentlemen in the dissecting-room
were amateurs of our class, struck me a good deal; and I was repeating it one day to a Lancashire
lady, who thereupon informed me, that she had herself lived in the neighborhood of that highwayman,
and well remembered two circumstances, which combined, in the opinion of all his neighbors,
to fix upon him the credit of Mrs. Ruscombe's affair. One was, the fact of his absence for
a whole fortnight at the period of that murder: the other, that, within a very little time
after, the neighborhood of this highwayman was deluged with dollars: now Mrs. Ruscombe was
known to have hoarded about two thousand of that coin. Be the artist, however, who he might,
the affair remains a durable monument of his genius; for such was the impression of awe, and
the sense of power left behind, by the strength of conception manifested in this murder, that
no tenant (as I was told in 1810) had been found up to that time for Mrs. Ruscombe's house.

But, whilst I thus eulogize the Ruscombian case, let me not be supposed to overlook the many
other specimens of extraordinary merit spread over the face of this century. Such cases, indeed,
as that of Miss Bland, or of Captain Donnellan, and Sir Theophilus Boughton, shall never have
any countenance from me. Fie on these dealers in poison, say I: can they not keep to the old
honest way of cutting throats, without introducing such abominable innovations from Italy?
I consider all these poisoning cases, compared with the legitimate style, as no better than
wax-work by the side of sculpture, or a lithographic print by the side of a fine Volpato. But,
dismissing these, there remain many excellent works of art in a pure style, such as nobody
need be ashamed to own, as every candid connoisseur will admit. Candid, observe, I say; for
great allowances must be made in these cases; no artist can ever be sure of carrying through
his own fine preconception. Awkward disturbances will arise; people will not submit to have
their throats cut quietly; they will run, they will kick, they will bite; and whilst the portrait
painter often has to complain of too much torpor in his subject, the artist, in our line, is
generally embarrassed by too much animation. At the same time, however disagreeable to the
artist, this tendency in murder to excite and irritate the subject, is certainly one of its
advantages to the world in general, which we ought not to overlook, since it favors the development
of latent talent. Jeremy Taylor notices with admiration, the extraordinary leaps which people
will take under the influence of fear. There was a striking instance of this in the recent
case of the M'Keands; the boy cleared a height, such as he will never clear again to his dying
day. Talents also of the most brilliant description for thumping, and indeed for all the gymnastic
exercises, have sometimes been developed by the panic which accompanies our artists; talents
else buried and hid under a bushel to the possessors, as much as to their friends. I remember
an interesting illustration of this fact, in a case which I learned in Germany.

Riding one day in the neighborhood of Munich, I overtook a distinguished amateur of our society,
whose name I shall conceal. This gentleman informed me that, finding himself wearied with the
frigid pleasures (so he called them) of mere amateurship, he had quitted England for the continent--meaning
to practise a little professionally. For this purpose he resorted to Germany, conceiving the
police in that part of Europe to be more heavy and drowsy than elsewhere. His debut as a practitioner
took place at Mannheim; and, knowing me to be a brother amateur, he freely communicated the
whole of his maiden adventure. "Opposite to my lodging," said he, "lived a baker: he was somewhat
of a miser, and lived quite alone. Whether it were his great expanse of chalky face, or what
else, I know not--but the fact was, I 'fancied' him, and resolved to commence business upon
his throat, which by the way he always carried bare--a fashion which is very irritating to
my desires. Precisely at eight o'clock in the evening, I observed that he regularly shut up
his windows. One night I watched him when thus engaged--bolted in after him--locked the door--and,
addressing him with great suavity, acquainted him with the nature of my errand; at the same
time advising him to make no resistance, which would be mutually unpleasant. So saying, I drew
out my tools; and was proceeding to operate. But at this spectacle, the baker, who seemed to
have been struck by catalepsy at my first announce, awoke into tremendous agitation. 'I will
not be murdered!' he shrieked aloud; 'what for will I lose my precious throat?' 'What for?'
said I; 'if for no other reason, for this--that you put alum into your bread. But no matter,
alum or no alum, (for I was resolved to forestall any argument on that point,) know that I
am a virtuoso in the art of murder--am desirous of improving myself in its details--and am
enamored of your vast surface of throat, to which I am determined to be a customer.' 'Is it
so?' said he, 'but I'll find you custom in another line;' and so saying, he threw himself into
a boxing attitude. The very idea of his boxing struck me as ludicrous. It is true, a London
baker had distinguished himself in the ring, and became known to fame under the title of the
Master of the Rolls; but he was young and unspoiled: whereas this man was a monstrous feather-bed
in person, fifty years old, and totally out of condition. Spite of all this, however, and contending
against me, who am a master in the art, he made so desperate a defence, that many times I feared
he might turn the tables upon me; and that I, an amateur, might be murdered by a rascally baker.
What a situation! Minds of sensibility will sympathize with my anxiety. How severe it was,
you may understand by this, that for the first thirteen rounds the baker had the advantage.
Round the fourteenth, I received a blow on the right eye, which closed it up; in the end, I
believe, this was my salvation: for the anger it roused in me was so great that, in this and
every one of the three following rounds, I floored the baker.

"Round 18th. The baker came up piping, and manifestly the worse for wear. His geometrical exploits
in the four last rounds had done him no good. However, he showed some skill in stopping a message
which I was sending to his cadaverous mug; in delivering which, my foot slipped, and I went down.

"Round 19th. Surveying the baker, I became ashamed of having been so much bothered by a shapeless
mass of dough; and I went in fiercely, and administered some severe punishment. A rally took
place--both went down--baker undermost--ten to three on amateur.

"Round 20th. The baker jumped up with surprising agility; indeed, he managed his pins capitally,
and fought wonderfully, considering that he was drenched in perspiration; but the shine was
now taken out of him, and his game was the mere effect of panic. It was now clear that he could
not last much longer. In the course of this round we tried the weaving system, in which I had
greatly the advantage, and hit him repeatedly on the conk. My reason for this was, that his
conk was covered with carbuncles; and I thought I should vex him by taking such liberties with
his conk, which in fact I did.

"The three next rounds, the master of the rolls staggered about like a cow on the ice. Seeing
how matters stood, in round twenty-fourth I whispered something into his ear, which sent him
down like a shot. It was nothing more than my private opinion of the value of his throat at
an annuity office. This little confidential whisper affected him greatly; the very perspiration
was frozen on his face, and for the next two rounds I had it all my own way. And when I called
time for the twenty-seventh round, he lay like a log on the floor."

After which, said I to the amateur, "It may be presumed that you accomplished your purpose."
"You are right," said he mildly, "I did; and a great satisfaction, you know, it was to my mind,
for by this means I killed two birds with one stone;" meaning that he had both thumped the
baker and murdered him. Now, for the life of me, I could not see that; for, on the contrary,
to my mind it appeared that he had taken two stones to kill one bird, having been obliged to
take the conceit out of him first with his fist, and then with his tools. But no matter for
his logic. The moral of his story was good, for it showed what an astonishing stimulus to latent
talent is contained in any reasonable prospect of being murdered. A pursy, unwieldy, half cataleptic
baker of Mannheim had absolutely fought six-and-twenty rounds with an accomplished English
boxer merely upon this inspiration; so greatly was natural genius exalted and sublimed by the
genial presence of his murderer.

Really, gentlemen, when one hears of such things as these, it becomes a duty, perhaps, a little
to soften that extreme asperity with which most men speak of murder. To hear people talk, you
would suppose that all the disadvantages and inconveniences were on the side of being murdered,
and that there were none at all in not being murdered. But considerate men think otherwise.
"Certainly," says Jeremy Taylor, "it is a less temporal evil to fall by the rudeness of a sword
than the violence of a fever: and the axe" (to which he might have added the ship-carpenter's
mallet and the crow-bar) "a much less affliction than a strangury." Very true; the bishop talks
like a wise man and an amateur, as he is; and another great philosopher, Marcus Aurelius, was
equally above the vulgar prejudices on this subject. He declares it to be one of "the noblest
functions of reason to know whether it is time to walk out of the world or not." (Book III.,
Collers' Translation.) No sort of knowledge being rarer than this, surely that man must be
a most philanthropic character, who undertakes to instruct people in this branch of knowledge
gratis, and at no little hazard to himself. All this, however, I throw out only in the way
of speculation to future moralists; declaring in the meantime my own private conviction, that
very few men commit murder upon philanthropic or patriotic principles, and repeating what I
have already said once at least--that, as to the majority of murderers, they are very incorrect
characters.

With respect to Williams's murders, the sublimest and most entire in their excellence that
ever were committed, I shall not allow myself to speak incidentally. Nothing less than an entire
lecture, or even an entire course of lectures, would suffice to expound their merits. But one
curious fact, connected with his case, I shall mention, because it seems to imply that the
blaze of his genius absolutely dazzled the eye of criminal justice. You all remember, I doubt
not, that the instruments with which he executed his first great work, (the murder of the Marrs,)
were a ship-carpenter's mallet and a knife. Now the mallet belonged to an old Swede, one John
Petersen, and bore his initials. This instrument Williams left behind him, in Marr's house,
and it fell into the hands of the magistrates. Now, gentlemen, it is a fact that the publication
of this circumstance of the initials led immediately to the apprehension of Williams, and,
if made earlier, would have prevented his second great work, (the murder of the Williamsons,)
which took place precisely twelve days after. But the magistrates kept back this fact from
the public for the entire twelve days, and until that second work was accomplished. That finished,
they published it, apparently feeling that Williams had now done enough for his fame, and that
his glory was at length placed beyond the reach of accident.

As to Mr. Thurtell's case, I know not what to say. Naturally, I have every disposition to think
highly of my predecessor in the chair of this society; and I acknowledge that his lectures
were unexceptionable. But, speaking ingenuously, I do really think that his principal performance,
as an artist, has been much overrated. I admit that at first I was myself carried away by the
general enthusiasm. On the morning when the murder was made known in London, there was the
fullest meeting of amateurs that I have ever known since the days of Williams; old bed-ridden
connoisseurs, who had got into a peevish way of sneering and complaining "that there was nothing
doing," now hobbled down to our club-room: such hilarity, such benign expression of general
satisfaction, I have rarely witnessed. On every side you saw people shaking hands, congratulating
each other, and forming dinner parties for the evening; and nothing was to be heard but triumphant
challenges of--"Well! will this do?" "Is this the right thing?" "Are you satisfied at last?"
But, in the midst of this, I remember we all grew silent on hearing the old cynical amateur,
L. S----, that laudator temporis acti, stumping along with his wooden leg; he entered the room
with his usual scowl, and, as he advanced, he continued to growl and stutter the whole way--"Not
an original idea in the whole piece--mere plagiarism,--base plagiarism from hints that I threw
out! Besides, his style is as hard as Albert Durer, and as coarse as Fuseli." Many thought
that this was mere jealousy, and general waspishness; but I confess that, when the first glow
of enthusiasm had subsided, I have found most judicious critics to agree that there was something
falsetto in the style of Thurtell. The fact is, he was a member of our society, which naturally
gave a friendly bias to our judgments; and his person was universally familiar to the cockneys,
which gave him, with the whole London public, a temporary popularity, that his pretensions
are not capable of supporting; for opinionum commenta delet dies, naturæ judicia confirmat.
There was, however, an unfinished design of Thurtell's for the murder of a man with a pair
of dumb-bells, which I admired greatly; it was a mere outline, that he never completed; but
to my mind it seemed every way superior to his chief work. I remember that there was great
regret expressed by some amateurs that this sketch should have been left in an unfinished state:
but there I cannot agree with them; for the fragments and first bold outlines of original artists
have often a felicity about them which is apt to vanish in the management of the details.

The case of the M'Keands I consider far beyond the vaunted performance of Thurtell,--indeed
above all praise; and bearing that relation, in fact, to the immortal works of Williams, which
the Æneid bears to the Iliad.

But it is now time that I should say a few words about the principles of murder, not with a
view to regulate your practice, but your judgment: as to old women, and the mob of newspaper
readers, they are pleased with anything, provided it is bloody enough. But the mind of sensibility
requires something more. First, then, let us speak of the kind of person who is adapted to
the purpose of the murderer; secondly, of the place where; thirdly, of the time when, and other
little circumstances.

As to the person, I suppose it is evident that he ought to be a good man; because, if he were
not, he might himself, by possibility, be contemplating murder at the very time; and such "diamond-cut-diamond"
tussles, though pleasant enough where nothing better is stirring, are really not what a critic
can allow himself to call murders. I could mention some people (I name no names) who have been
murdered by other people in a dark lane; and so far all seemed correct enough; but, on looking
farther into the matter, the public have become aware that the murdered party was himself,
at the moment, planning to rob his murderer, at the least, and possibly to murder him, if he
had been strong enough. Whenever that is the case, or may be thought to be the case, farewell
to all the genuine effects of the art. For the final purpose of murder, considered as a fine
art, is precisely the same as that of tragedy, in Aristotle's account of it, viz., "to cleanse
the heart by means of pity and terror." Now, terror there may be, but how can there be any
pity for one tiger destroyed by another tiger?

It is also evident that the person selected ought not to be a public character. For instance,
no judicious artist would have attempted to murder Abraham Newland. For the case was this;
everybody read so much about Abraham Newland, and so few people ever saw him, that there was
a fixed belief that he was an abstract idea. And I remember that once, when I happened to mention
that I had dined at a coffee-house in company with Abraham Newland, everybody looked scornfully
at me, as though I had pretended to have played at billiards with Prester John, or to have
had an affair of honor with the Pope. And, by the way, the Pope would be a very improper person
to murder: for he has such a virtual ubiquity as the father of Christendom, and, like the cuckoo,
is so often heard but never seen, that I suspect most people regard him also as an abstract
idea. Where, indeed, a public character is in the habit of giving dinners, "with every delicacy
of the season," the case is very different: every person is satisfied that he is no abstract
idea; and, therefore, there can be no impropriety in murdering him; only that his murder will
fall into the class of assassinations, which I have not yet treated.

Thirdly. The subject chosen ought to be in good health: for it is absolutely barbarous to murder
a sick person, who is usually quite unable to bear it. On this principle, no cockney ought
to be chosen who is above twenty-five, for after that age he is sure to be dyspeptic. Or at
least, if a man will hunt in that warren, he ought to murder a couple at one time; if the cockneys
chosen should be tailors, he will of course think it his duty, on the old established equation,
to murder eighteen. And, here, in this attention to the comfort of sick people, you will observe
the usual effect of a fine art to soften and refine the feelings. The world in general, gentlemen,
are very bloody-minded; and all they want in a murder is a copious effusion of blood; gaudy
display in this point is enough for them. But the enlightened connoisseur is more refined in
his taste; and from our art, as from all the other liberal arts when thoroughly cultivated,
the result is--to improve and to humanize the heart; so true is it, that--

  ----"Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes,
  Emollit mores, nec sinit esse feros."

A philosophic friend, well known for his philanthropy and general benignity, suggests that
the subject chosen ought also to have a family of young children wholly dependent on his exertions,
by way of deepening the pathos. And, undoubtedly, this is a judicious caution. Yet I would
not insist too keenly on this condition. Severe good taste unquestionably demands it; but still,
where the man was otherwise unobjectionable in point of morals and health, I would not look
with too curious a jealousy to a restriction which might have the effect of narrowing the artist's
sphere.

So much for the person. As to the time, the place, and the tools, I have many things to say,
which at present I have no room for. The good sense of the practitioner has usually directed
him to night and privacy. Yet there have not been wanting cases where this rule was departed
from with excellent effect. In respect to time, Mrs. Ruscombe's case is a beautiful exception,
which I have already noticed; and in respect both to time and place, there is a fine exception
in the annals of Edinburgh, (year 1805,) familiar to every child in Edinburgh, but which has
unaccountably been defrauded of its due portion of fame amongst English amateurs. The case
I mean is that of a porter to one of the banks, who was murdered whilst carrying a bag of money,
in broad daylight, on turning out of the High Street, one of the most public streets in Europe,
and the murderer is to this hour undiscovered.

  "Sed fugit interea, fugit irreparabile tcmpus,
  Singula dum capti circumvectamur amore."

And now, gentlemen, in conclusion, let me again solemnly disclaim all pretensions on my own
part to the character of a professional man. I never attempted any murder in my life, except
in the year 1801, upon the body of a tom-cat; and that turned out differently from my intention.
My purpose, I own, was downright murder. "Semper ego auditor tantum?" said I, "nunquamne reponam?"
And I went down stairs in search of Tom at one o'clock on a dark night, with the "animus,"
and no doubt with the fiendish looks, of a murderer. But when I found him, he was in the act
of plundering the pantry of bread and other things. Now this gave a new turn to the affair;
for the time being one of general scarcity, when even Christians were reduced to the use of
potato-bread, rice-bread, and all sorts of things, it was downright treason in a tom-cat to
be wasting good wheaten-bread in the way he was doing. It instantly became a patriotic duty
to put him to death; and as I raised aloft and shook the glittering steel, I fancied myself
rising like Brutus, effulgent from a crowd of patriots, and, as I stabbed him, I

  "called aloud on Tully's name,
  And bade the father of his country hail!"

Since then, what wandering thoughts I may have had of attempting the life of an ancient ewe,
of a superannuated hen, and such "small deer," are locked up in the secrets of my own breast;
but for the higher departments of the art, I confess myself to be utterly unfit. My ambition
does not rise so high. No, gentlemen, in the words of Horace,

  "---fungos vice cotis, excutum
  Reddere ere quæ ferrum valet, exsors ipsa secandi."

SECOND PAPER ON MURDER,

CONSIDERED AS ONE OF THE FINE ARTS.

DOCTOR NORTH: You are a liberal man: liberal in the true classical sense, not in the slang
sense of modern politicians and education-mongers. Being so, I am sure that you will sympathize
with my case. I am an ill-used man, Dr. North--particularly ill used; and, with your permission,
I will briefly explain how. A black scene of calumny will be laid open; but you, Doctor, will
make all things square again. One frown from you, directed to the proper quarter, or a warning
shake of the crutch, will set me right in public opinion, which at present, I am sorry to say,
is rather hostile to me and mine--all owing to the wicked arts of slanderers. But you shall hear.

A good many years ago you may remember that I came forward in the character of a dilettante
in murder. Perhaps dilettante may be too strong a word. Connoisseur is better suited to the
scruples and infirmity of public taste. I suppose there is no harm in that at least. A man
is not bound to put his eyes, ears, and understanding into his breeches pocket when he meets
with a murder. If he is not in a downright comatose state, I suppose he must see that one murder
is better or worse than another in point of good taste. Murders have their little differences
and shades of merit as well as statues, pictures, oratorios, cameos, intaglios, or what not.
You may be angry with the man for talking too much, or too publicly, (as to the too much, that
I deny--a man can never cultivate his taste too highly;) but you must allow him to think, at
any rate; and you, Doctor, you think, I am sure, both deeply and correctly on the subject.
Well, would you believe it? all my neighbors came to hear of that little æsthetic essay which
you had published; and, unfortunately, hearing at the very same time of a club that I as connected
with, and a dinner at which I presided--both tending to the same little object as the essay,
viz., the diffusion of a just taste among her majesty's subjects, they got up the most barbarous
calumnies against me. In particular, they said that I, or that the club, which comes to the
same thing, had offered bounties on well conducted homicides--with a scale of drawbacks, in
case of any one defect or flaw, according to a table issued to private friends. Now, Doctor,
I'll tell you the whole truth about the dinner and the club, and you'll see how malicious the
world is. But first let me tell you, confidentially, what my real principles are upon the matters
in question.

As to murder, I never committed one in my life. It's a well known thing amongst all my friends.
I can get a paper to certify as much, signed by lots of people. Indeed, if you come to that,
I doubt whether many people could produce as strong a certificate. Mine would be as big as
a table-cloth. There is indeed one member of the club, who pretends to say that he caught me
once making too free with his throat on a club night, after every body else had retired. But,
observe, he shuffles in his story according to his state of civilation. When not far gone,
he contents himself with saying that he caught me ogling his throat; and that I was melancholy
for some weeks after, and that my voice sounded in a way expressing, to the nice ear of a connoisseur,
the sense of opportunities lost--but the club all know that he's a disappointed man himself,
and that he speaks querulously at times about the fatal neglect of a man's coming abroad without
his tools. Besides, all this is an affair between two amateurs, and every body makes allowances
for little asperities and sorenesses in such a case. "But," say you, "If no murderer, my correspondent
may have encouraged, or even have bespoke a murder." No, upon my honor--nothing of the kind.
And that was the very point I wished to argue for your satisfaction. The truth is, I am a very
particular man in everything relating to murder; and perhaps I carry my delicacy too far. The
Stagyrite most justly, and possibly with a view to my case, placed virtue in the [Greek: to
meson] or middle point between two extremes. A golden mean is certainly what every man should
aim at. But it is easier talking than doing; and, my infirmity being notoriously too much milkiness
of heart, I find it difficult to maintain that steady equatorial line between the two poles
of too much murder on the one hand, and too little on the other. I am too soft--Doctor, too
soft; and people get excused through me--nay, go through life without an attempt made upon
them, that ought not to be excused. I believe if I had the management of things, there would
hardly be a murder from year's end to year's end. In fact I'm for virtue, and goodness, and
all that sort of thing. And two instances I'll give you to what an extremity I carry my virtue.
The first may seem a trifle; but not if you knew my nephew, who was certainly born to be hanged,
and would have been so long ago, but for my restraining voice. He is horribly ambitious, and
thinks himself a man of cultivated taste in most branches of murder, whereas, in fact, he has
not one idea on the subject, but such as he has stolen from me. This is so well known, that
the club has twice blackballed him, though every indulgence was shown to him as my relative.
People came to me and said--"Now really, President, we would do much to serve a relative of
yours. But still, what can be said? You know yourself that he'll disgrace us. If we were to
elect him, why, the next thing we should hear of would be some vile butcherly murder, by way
of justifying our choice. And what sort of a concern would it be? You know, as well as we do,
that it would be a disgraceful affair, more worthy of the shambles than of an artist's attelier.
He would fall upon some great big man, some huge farmer returning drunk from a fair. There
would be plenty of blood, and that he would expect us to take in lieu of taste, finish, scenical
grouping. Then, again, how would he tool? Why, most probably with a cleaver and a couple of
paving stones: so that the whole coup d'oeil would remind you rather of some hideous ogre or
cyclops, than of the delicate operator of the nineteenth century." The picture was drawn with
the hand of truth; that I could not but allow, and, as to personal feelings in the matter,
I dismissed them from the first. The next morning I spoke to my nephew--I was delicately situated,
as you see, but I determined that no consideration should induce me to flinch from my duty.
"John," said I, "you seem to me to have taken an erroneous view of life and its duties. Pushed
on by ambition, you are dreaming rather of what it might be glorious to attempt, than what
it would be possible for you to accomplish. Believe me, it is not necessary to a man's respectability
that he should commit a murder. Many a man has passed through life most respectably, without
attempting any species of homicide--good, bad, or indifferent. It is your first duty to ask
yourself, quid valeant humeri, quid ferre recusent? we cannot all be brilliant men in this
life. And it is for your interest to be contented rather with a humble station well filled,
than to shock every body with failures, the more conspicuous by contrast with the ostentation
of their promises." John made no answer, he looked very sulky at the moment, and I am in high
hopes that I have saved a near relation from making a fool of himself by attempting what is
as much beyond his capacity as an epic poem. Others, however, tell me that he is meditating
a revenge upon me and the whole club. But let this be as it may, liberavi animam meam; and,
as you see, have run some risk with a wish to diminish the amount of homicide. But the other
case still more forcibly illustrates my virtue. A man came to me as a candidate for the place
of my servant, just then vacant. He had the reputation of having dabbled a little in our art;
some said not without merit. What startled me, however, was, that he supposed this art to be
part of his regular duties in my service. Now that was a thing I would not allow; so I said
at once, "Richard (or James, as the case might be,) you misunderstand my character. If a man
will and must practise this difficult (and allow me to add, dangerous) branch of art--if he
has an overruling genius for it, why, he might as well pursue his studies whilst living in
my service as in another's. And also, I may observe, that it can do no harm either to himself
or to the subject on whom he operates, that he should be guided by men of more taste than himself.
Genius may do much, but long study of the art must always entitle a man to offer advice. So
far I will go--general principles I will suggest. But as to any particular case, once for all
I will have nothing to do with it. Never tell me of any special work of art you are meditating--I
set my face against it in toto. For if once a man indulges himself in murder, very soon he
comes to think little of robbing; and from robbing he comes next to drinking and Sabbath-breaking,
and from that to incivility and procrastination. Once begin upon this downward path, you never
know where you are to stop. Many a man has dated his ruin from some murder or other that perhaps
he thought little of at the time. Principiis obsta--that's my rule." Such was my speech, and
I have always acted up to it; so if that is not being virtuous, I should be glad to know what
is. But now about the dinner and the club. The club was not particularly of my creation; it
arose pretty much as other similar associations, for the propagation of truth and the communication
of new ideas, rather from the necessities of things than upon any one man's suggestion. As
to the dinner, if any man more than another could be held responsible for that, it was a member
known amongst us by the name of Toad-in-the-hole. He was so called from his gloomy misanthropical
disposition, which led him into constant disparagements of all modern murders as vicious abortions,
belonging to no authentic school of art. The finest performances of our own age he snarled
at cynically; and at length this querulous humor grew upon him so much, and he became so notorious
as a laudator tentporis acti, that few people cared to seek his society. This made him still
more fierce and truculent. He went about muttering and growling; wherever you met him he was
soliloquizing and saying, "despicable pretender--without grouping--without two ideas upon handling--without"--and
there you lost him. At length existence seemed to be painful to him; he rarely spoke, he seemed
conversing with phantoms in the air, his housekeeper informed us that his reading was nearly
confined to God's Revenge upon Murder, by Reynolds, and a more ancient book of the same title,
noticed by Sir Walter Scott in his Fortunes of Nigel. Sometimes, perhaps, he might read in
the Newgate Calendar down to the year 1788, but he never looked into a book more recent. In
fact, he had a theory with regard to the French Revolution, as having been the great cause
of degeneration in murder. "Very soon, sir," he used to say, "men will have lost the art of
killing poultry: the very rudiments of the art will have perished!" In the year 1811 he retired
from general society. Toad-in-the-hole was no more seen in any public resort. We missed him
from his wonted haunts--nor up the lawn, nor at the wood was he. By the side of the main conduit
his listless length at noontide he would stretch, and pore upon the filth that muddled by.
"Even dogs are not what they were, sir--not what they should be. I remember in my grandfather's
time that some dogs had an idea of murder. I have known a mastiff lie in ambush for a rival,
sir, and murder him with pleasing circumstances of good taste. Yes, sir, I knew a tom-cat that
was an assassin. But now"--and then, the subject growing too painful, he dashed his hand to
his forehead, and went off abruptly in a homeward direction towards his favorite conduit, where
he was seen by an amateur in such a state that he thought it dangerous to address him. Soon
after he shut himself entirely up; it was understood that he had resigned himself to melancholy;
and at length the prevailing notion was, that Toad-in-the-hole had hanged himself.

The world was wrong there, as it has been on some other questions. Toad-in-the-hole might be
sleeping, but dead he was not; and of that we soon had ocular proof. One morning in 1812, an
amateur surprised us with the news that he had seen Toad-in-the-hole brushing with hasty steps
the dews away to meet the postman by the conduit side. Even that was something: how much more,
to hear that he had shaved his beard--had laid aside his sad-colored clothes, and was adorned
like a bridegroom of ancient days. What could be the meaning of all this? Was Toad-in-the-hole
mad? or how? Soon after the secret was explained--in more than a figurative sense "the murder
was out." For in came the London morning papers, by which it appeared that but three days before
a murder, the most superb of the century by many degrees had occurred in the heart of London.
I need hardly say, that this was the great exterminating chef-d'oeuvre of Williams at Mr. Marr's,
No. 29, Ratcliffe Highway. That was the début of the artist; at least for anything the public
knew. What occurred at Mr. Williamson's twelve nights afterwards--the second work turned out
from the same chisel--some people pronounced even superior. But Toad-in-the-hole always "reclaimed"--he
was even angry at comparisons. "This vulgar gout de comparaison, as La Bruyère calls it," he
would often remark, "will be our ruin; each work has its own separate characteristics--each
in and for itself is incomparable. One, perhaps, might suggest the Iliad--the other the Odyssey:
what do you get by such comparisons? Neither ever was, or will be surpassed; and when you've
talked for hours, you must still come back to that." Vain, however, as all criticism might
be, he often said that volumes might be written on each case for itself; and he even proposed
to publish in quarto on the subject.

Meantime, how had Toad-in-the-hole happened to hear of this great work of art so early in the
morning? He had received an account by express, dispatched by a correspondent in London, who
watched the progress of art On Toady's behalf, with a general commission to send off a special
express, at whatever cost, in the event of any estimable works appearing--how much more upon
occasion of a ne plus ultra in art! The express arrived in the night-time; Toad-in-the-hole
was then gone to bed; he had been muttering and grumbling for hours, but of course he was called
up. On reading the account, he threw his arms round the express, called him his brother and
his preserver; settled a pension upon him for three lives, and expressed his regret at not
having it in his power to knight him. We, on our part--we amateurs, I mean--having heard that
he was abroad, and therefore had not hanged himself, made sure of soon seeing him amongst us.
Accordingly he soon arrived, knocked over the porter on his road to the reading-room; he seized
every man's hand as he passed him--wrung it almost frantically, and kept ejaculating, "Why,
now here's something like a murder!--this is the real thing--this is genuine--this is what
you can approve, can recommend to a friend: this--says every man, on reflection--this is the
thing that ought to be!" Then, looking at particular friends, he said--"Why, Jack, how are
you? Why, Tom, how are you? Bless me, you look ten years younger than when I last saw you."
"No, sir," I replied, "It is you who look ten years younger." "Do I? well, I should'nt wonder
if I did; such works are enough to make us all young." And in fact the general opinion is,
that Toad-in-the-hole would have died but for this regeneration of art, which he called a second
age of Leo the Tenth; and it was our duty, he said solemnly, to commemorate it. At present,
and en attendant--rather as an occasion for a public participation in public sympathy, than
as in itself any commensurate testimony of our interest--he proposed that the club should meet
and dine together. A splendid public dinner, therefore, was given by the club; to which all
amateurs were invited from a distance of one hundred miles.

Of this dinner there are ample short-hand notes amongst the archives of the club. But they
are not "extended," to speak diplomatically; and the reporter is missing--I believe, murdered.
Meantime, in years long after that day, and on an occasion perhaps equally interesting, viz.,
the turning up of Thugs and Thuggism, another dinner was given. Of this I myself kept notes,
for fear of another accident to the short-hand reporter. And I here subjoin them. Toad-in-the-hole,
I must mention, was present at this dinner. In fact, it was one of its sentimental incidents.
Being as old as the valleys at the dinner of 1812, naturally he was as old as the hills at
the Thug dinner of 1838. He had taken to wearing his beard again; why, or with what view, it
passes my persimmon to tell you. But so it was. And his appearance was most benign and venerable.
Nothing could equal the angelic radiance of his smile as he inquired after the unfortunate
reporter, (whom, as a piece of private scandal, I should tell you that he was himself supposed
to have murdered, in a rapture of creative art:) the answer was, with roars of laughter, from
the under-sheriff of our county--"Non est inventus." Toad-in-the-hole laughed outrageously
at this: in fact, we all thought he was choking; and, at the earnest request of the company,
a musical composer furnished a most beautiful glee upon the occasion, which was sung five times
after dinner, with universal applause and inextinguishable laughter, the words being these,
(and the chorus so contrived, as most beautifully to mimic the peculiar laughter of Toad-in-the-hole:)--

  "Et interrogatum est à Toad-in-the hole--Ubi est ille reporter?
  Et responsum est cum cachinno--Non est inventus."

CHORUS.

  "Deinde iteratum est ab omnibus, cum cachinnatione undulante--
  Non est inventus."

Toad-in-the-hole, I ought to mention, about nine years before, when an express from Edinburgh
brought him the earliest intelligence of the Burke-and-Hare revolution in the art, went mad
upon the spot; and, instead of a pension to the express for even one life, or a knighthood,
endeavored to burke him; in consequence of which he was put into a strait waistcoat. And that
was the reason we had no dinner then. But now all of us were alive and kicking, strait-waistcoaters
and others; in fact, not one absentee was reported upon the entire roll. There were also many
foreign amateurs present.

Dinner being over, and the cloth drawn, there was a general call made for the new glee of Non
est inventus; but, as this would have interfered with the requisite gravity of the company
during the earlier toasts, I overruled the call. After the national toasts had been given,
the first official toast of the day was, The Old Man of the Mountains--drunk in solemn silence.

Toad-in-the-hole returned thanks in a neat speech. He likened himself to the Old Man of the
Mountains, in a few brief allusions, that made the company absolutely yell with laughter; and
he concluded with giving the health of

Mr. Von Hammer, with many thanks to him for his learned History of the Old Man and his subjects
the assassins.

Upon this I rose and said, that doubtless most of the company were aware of the distinguished
place assigned by orientalists to the very learned Turkish scholar Von Hammer the Austrian;
that he had made the profoundest researches into our art as connected with those early and
eminent artists the Syrian assassins in the period of the Crusaders; that his work had been
for several years deposited, as a rare treasure of art, in the library of the club. Even the
author's name, gentlemen, pointed him out as the historian of our art--Von Hammer--

"Yes, yes," interrupted Toad-in-the-hole, who never can sit still--"Yes, yes, Von Hammer--he's
the man for a malleus hæreticorum: think rightly of our art, or he's the man to tickle your
catastrophes. You all know what consideration Williams bestowed on the hammer, or the ship
carpenter's mallet, which is the same thing. Gentlemen, I give you another great hammer--Charles
the Hammer, the Marteau, or, in old French, the Martel--he hammered the Saracens till they
were all as dead as door-nails--he did, believe me."

"Charles Martel, with all the honors."

But the explosion of Toad-in-the-hole, together with the uproarious cheers for the grandpapa
of Charlemagne, had now made the company unmanageable. The orchestra was again challenged with
shouts the stormiest for the new glee. I made again a powerful effort to overrule the challenge.
I might as well have talked to the winds. I foresaw a tempestuous evening; and I ordered myself
to be strengthened with three waiters on each side; the vice-president with as many. And the
frenzy of the passion became absolutely convulsing, as the full chorus fell in--"Et iteratum
est ab omnibus--Non est inventus"

By this time I saw how things were going: wine and music were making most of the amateurs wild.
Particularly Toad-in-the-hole, though considerably above a hundred years old, was getting as
vicious as a young leopard. It was a fixed impression with the company that he had murdered
the reporter in the year 1812; since which time (viz. twenty-six years) "ille reporter" had
been constantly reported "Non est inventus." Consequently, the glee about himself, which of
itself was most tumultuous and jubilant, carried him off his feet. Like the famous choral songs
amongst the citizens of Abdera, nobody could hear it without a contagious desire for falling
back into the agitating music of "Et interrogatum est à Toad-in-the-hole," &c. I enjoined vigilance
upon my assessors, and the business of the evening proceeded.

The next toast was--The Jewish Sicarii.

Upon which I made the following explanation to the company:--"Gentlemen, I am sure it will
interest you all to hear that the assassins, ancient as they were, had a race of predecessors
in the very same country. All over Syria, but particularly in Palestine, during the early years
of the Emperor Nero, there was a band of murderers, who prosecuted their studies in a very
novel manner. They did not practise in the night-time, or in lonely places; but justly considering
that great crowds are in themselves a sort of darkness by means of the dense pressure and the
impossibility of finding out who it was that gave the blow, they mingled with mobs everywhere;
particularly at the great paschal feast in Jerusalem; where they actually had the audacity,
as Josephus assures us, to press into the temple,--and whom should they choose for operating
upon but Jonathan himself, the Pontifex Maximus? They murdered him, gentlemen, as beautifully
as if they had had him alone on a moonless night in a dark lane. And when it was asked, who
was the murderer, and where he was"--

"Why, then, it was answered," interrupted Toad-in-the-hole, "Non est inventus." Et responsum
est ab omnibus--Non est inventus."

When the tempestuous chorus had subsided, I began again:--"Gentlemen, you will find a very
circumstantial account of the Sicarii in at least three different parts of Josephus; once in
Book XX. sect. v. c. 8, of his Antiquities; once in Book I. of his Wars: but in sect. 10 of
the chapter first cited you will find a particular description of their tooling. This is what
he says--'They tooled with small scymetars not much different from the Persian acinacæ, but
more curved, and for all the world most like the Roman sickles or sicæ.' It is perfectly magnificent,
gentlemen, to hear the sequel of their history. Perhaps the only case on record where a regular
army of murderers was assembled, a justus exercitus, was in the case of these Sicarii. They
mustered in such strength in the wilderness, that Festus himself was obliged to march against
them with the Roman legionary force." Et responsum est ab omnibus--Non est inventus."

"No, no, Toad--you are wrong for once: that army was found, and was all cut to pieces in the
desert. Heavens, gentlemen, what a sublime picture! The Roman legions--the wilderness--Jerusalem
in the distance--an army of murderers in the foreground!"

Mr. R., a member, now gave the next toast--"To the further improvement of Tooling, and thanks
to the Committee for their services."

Mr. L., on behalf of the committee who had reported on that subject, returned thanks. He made
an interesting extract from the report, by which it appeared how very much stress had been
laid formerly on the mode of tooling, by the fathers, both Greek and Latin. In confirmation
of this pleasing fact, he made a very striking statement in reference to the earliest work
of antediluvian art. Father Mersenne, that learned Roman Catholic, in page one thousand four
hundred and thirty-one[1] of his operose Commentary on Genesis, mentions, on the authority
of several rabbis, that the quarrel of Cain with Abel was about a young woman; that, by various
accounts, Cain had tooled with his teeth, [Abelem fuisse morsibus dilaceratum à Cain;] by many
others, with the jaw-bone of an ass; which is the tooling adopted by most painters. But it
is pleasing to the mind of sensibility to know that, as science expanded, sounder views were
adopted. One author contends for a pitchfork, St. Chrysostom for a sword, Irenæus for a scythe,
and Prudentius for a hedging-bill. This last writer delivers his opinion thus:--

  "Frater, probatæ sanctitatis æmulus,
  Germana curvo colla frangit sarculo:"

i.e. his brother, jealous of his attested sanctity, fractures his brotherly throat with a curved
hedging-bill. "All which is respectfully submitted by your committee, not so much as decisive
of the question, (for it is not,) but in order to impress upon the youthful mind the importance
which has ever been attached to the quality of the tooling by such men as Chrysostom and Irenæus."

[Footnote 1: "Page one thousand four hundred and thirty-one"--literally, good reader, and no
joke at all.]

"Dang Irenæus!" said Toad-in-the-hole, who now rose impatiently to give the next toast:--"Our
Irish friends; and a speedy revolution in their mode of tooling, as well as everything else
connected with the art!"

"Gentlemen, I'll tell you the plain truth. Every day of the year we take up a paper, we read
the opening of a murder. We say, this is good, this is charming, this is excellent! But, behold
you! scarcely have we read a little farther, before the word Tipperary or Ballina-something
betrays the Irish manufacture. Instantly we loath it; we call to the waiter; we say, Waiter,
take away this paper; send it out of the house; it is absolutely offensive to all just taste.'
I appeal to every man whether, on finding a murder (otherwise perhaps promising enough) to
be Irish, he does not feel himself as much insulted as when Madeira being ordered, he finds
it to be Cape; or when, taking up what he takes to be a mushroom, it turns out what children
call a toad-stool. Tithes, politics, or something wrong in principle, vitiate every Irish murder.
Gentlemen, this must be reformed, or Ireland will not be a land to live in; at least, if we
do live there, we must import all our murders, that's clear." Toad-in-the-hole sat down growling
with suppressed wrath, and the universal "Hear, hear!" sufficiently showed that he spoke the
general feeling.

The next toast was--"The sublime epoch of Burkism and Harism!"

This was drunk with enthusiasm; and one of the members, who spoke to the question, made a very
curious communication to the company:--"Gentlemen, we fancy Burkism to be a pure invention
of our own times: and in fact no Pancirollus has ever enumerated this branch of art when writing
de rebus deperditis. Still I have ascertained that the essential principle of the art was known
to the ancients, although like the art of painting upon glass, of making the myrrhine cups,
&c., it was lost in the dark ages for want of encouragement. In the famous collection of Greek
epigrams made by Planudes is one upon a very charming little case of Burkism: it is a perfect
little gem of art. The epigram itself I cannot lay my hand upon at this moment, but the following
is an abstract of it by Salmasius, as I find it in his notes on Vopiscus: 'Est et elegans epigramma
Lucilii, (well he might call it "elegans!") ubi medicus et pollinctor de compacto sic egerunt,
ut medicus ægros omnes curæ suæ commissos occideret:' this was the basis of the contract, you
see, that on the one part the doctor, for himself and his assigns, doth undertake and contract
duly and truly to murder all the patients committed to his charge: but why? There lies the
beauty of the case--'Et ut pollinctori amico suo traderet pollingendos.' The pollinctor, you
are aware, was a person whose business it was to dress and prepare dead bodies for burial.
The original ground of the transaction appears to have been sentimental: 'He was my friend,'
says the murderous doctor; 'he was dear to me,' in speaking of the pollinctor. But the law,
gentlemen, is stern and harsh: the law will not hear of these tender motives: to sustain a
contract of this nature in law, it is essential that a 'consideration' should be given. Now
what was the consideration? For thus far all is on the side of the pollinctor: he will be well
paid for his services; but, meantime, the generous, the noble-minded doctor gets nothing. What
was the little consideration again, I ask, which the law would insist on the doctor's taking?
You shall hear: 'Et ut pollinctor vicissim [Greek: telamonas] quos furabatur de pollinctione
mortuorum medico mitteret doni ad alliganda vulnera eorurn quos curabat.' Now, the case is
clear: the whole went on a principle of reciprocity which would have kept up the trade for
ever. The doctor was also a surgeon: he could not murder all his patients: some of the surgical
patients must be retained intact; re infectâ. For these he wanted linen bandages. But, unhappily,
the Romans wore woollen, on which account they bathed so often. Meantime, there was linen to
be had in Rome; but it was monstrously dear; and the [Greek: telamones] or linen swathing bandages,
in which superstition obliged them to bind up corpses, would answer capitally for the surgeon.
The doctor, therefore, contracts to furnish his friend with a constant succession of corpses,
provided, and be it understood always, that his said friend in return should supply him with
one half of the articles he would receive from the friends of the parties murdered or to be
murdered. The doctor invariably recommended his invaluable friend the pollinctor, (whom let
us call the undertaker;) the undertaker, with equal regard to the sacred rights of friendship,
uniformly recommended the doctor. Like Pylades and Orestes, they were models of a perfect friendship:
in their lives they were lovely, and on the gallows, it is to be hoped, they were not divided.

"Gentlemen, it makes me laugh horribly, when I think of those two friends drawing and redrawing
on each other: 'Pollinctor in account with Doctor, debtor by sixteen corpses; creditor by forty-five
bandages, two of which damaged.' Their names unfortunately are lost; but I conceive they must
have been Quintus Burkius and Publius Harius. By the way, gentlemen, has anybody heard lately
of Hare? I understand he is comfortably settled in Ireland, considerably to the west, and does
a little business now and then; but, as he observes with a sigh, only as a retailer--nothing
like the fine thriving wholesale concern so carelessly blown up at Edinburgh. 'You see what
comes of neglecting business,'--is the chief moral, the [Greek: epimutheon], as Æsop would
say, which he draws from his past experience."

At length came the toast of the day--Thugdom in all its branches.

The speeches attempted at this crisis of the dinner were past all counting. But the applause
was so furious, the music so stormy, and the crashing of glasses so incessant, from the general
resolution never again to drink an inferior toast from the same glass, that my power is not
equal to the task of reporting. Besides which, Toad-in-the-hole now became quite ungovernable.
He kept firing pistols in every direction; sent his servant for a blunderbuss, and talked of
loading with ball-cartridge. We conceived that his former madness had returned at the mention
of Burke and Hare; or that, being again weary of life, he had resolved to go off in a general
massacre. This we could not think of allowing: it became indispensable, therefore, to kick
him out, which we did with universal consent, the whole company lending their toes uno pede,
as I may say, though pitying his gray hairs and his angelic smile. During the operation the
orchestra poured in their old chorus. The universal company sang, and (what surprised us most
of all) Toad-in-the-hole joined us furiously in singing--

  "Et interrogatum est ab omnibus--Ubi est ille Toad-in-the-hole
  Et responsum est ab omnibus--Non est inventus."

JOAN OF ARC[1]

IN REFERENCE TO M. MICHELET'S HISTORY OF FRANCE. Coronets for thee!

But stop. But now, confining our attention to M. Michelet--who is quite sufficient to lead
a man into a gallop, requiring two relays, at least, of fresh readers,--we in England--who
know him best by his worst book, the book against Priests, &c., which has been most circulated--know
him disadvantageously. That book is a rhapsody of incoherence. M. Michelet was light-headed,
I believe, when he wrote it: and it is well that his keepers overtook him in time to intercept
a second part. M. Michelet will have her to be a Champenoise, and for no better reason than
that she "took after her father," who happened to be a Champenoise. I am sure she did not:
for her father was a filthy old fellow, whom I shall soon teach the judicious reader to hate.
But, (says M. Michelet, arguing the case physiologically) "she had none of the Lorrainian asperity;"
no, it seems she had only "the gentleness of Champagne, its simplicity mingled with sense and
acuteness, as you find it in Joinville." All these things she had; and she was worth a thousand
Joinvilles, meaning either the prince so called, or the fine old crusader. But still, though
I love Joanna dearly, I cannot shut my eyes entirely to the Lorraine element of "asperity"
in her nature. No; really now, she must have had a shade of that, though very slightly developed--a
mere soupçon, as French cooks express it in speaking of cayenne pepper, when she caused so
many of our English throats to be cut. But could she do less? No; I always say so; but still
you never saw a person kill even a trout with a perfectly "Champagne" face of "gentleness and
simplicity," though, often, no doubt, with considerable "acuteness." All your cooks and butchers
wear a Lorraine cast of expression.

These disputes, however, turn on refinements too nice.

Things being situated as is here laid down, viz. in respect of the decussation, and in respect
of Joanna's bed-room; it follows that, if she had dropped her glove by accident from her chamber
window into the very bull's eye of the target, in the centre of X, not one of several great
potentates could (though all animated by the sincerest desires for the peace of Europe) have
possibly come to any clear understanding on the question of whom the glove was meant for. Whence
the candid reader perceives at once the necessity for at least four bloody wars. Falling indeed
a little farther, as, for instance, into the pigstye, the glove could not have furnished to
the most peppery prince any shadow of excuse for arming: he would not have had a leg to stand
upon in taking such a perverse line of conduct. But, if it fell (as by the hypothesis it did)
into the one sole point of ground common to four kings, it is clear that, instead of no leg
to stand upon, eight separate legs would have had no ground to stand upon unless by treading
on each other's toes. The philosopher, therefore, sees clearly the necessity of a war, and
regrets that sometimes nations do not wait for grounds of war so solid.

In the circumstances supposed, though the four kings might be unable to see their way clearly
without the help of gunpowder to any decision upon Joanna's intention, she--poor thing!--never
could mistake her intentions for a moment. All her love was for France; and, therefore, any
glove she might drop into the quadrivium must be wickedly missent by the post-office, if it
found its way to any king but the king of France. Let Franco be assailed by a formidable enemy,
and instantly you saw a Duke of Lorraine or Bar insisting on having his throat cut in support
of France; which favor accordingly was cheerfully granted to them in three great successive
battles by the English and by the Turkish sultan, viz., at Crécy, at Nicopolis, and at Agincourt.
The same notion as to the indispensableness of a coronation prevails widely in England. Trouble
us not, lawyer, with your quillets. We are illegal blockheads; so thoroughly without law, that
we don't know even if we have a right to be blockheads; and our mind is made up--that the first
man drawn from the oven of coronation at Rheims, is the man that is baked into a king. All
others are counterfeits, made of base Indian meal, damaged by sea-water. 2dly, it is quite
contrary to the evidence on Joanna's trial; for Southey's "Joan" of A. Dom. Here's a precious
windfall for the doctors; they, by snaky tortuosities, had hoped, through the aid of a corkscrew,
(which every D. D. or S.T.P. is said to carry in his pocket,) for the happiness of ultimately
extracting from Joanna a few grains of heretical powder or small shot, which might have justified
their singeing her a little. And just at such a crisis, expressly to justify their burning
her to a cinder, up gallops Joanna with a brigade of guns, unlimbers, and serves them out with
heretical grape and deistical round-shot enough to lay a kingdom under interdict. Any miracles,
to which Joanna might treat the grim D. Ds. after that, would go to the wrong side of her little
account in the clerical books. Joanna would be created a Dr. herself, but not of Divinity.
For in the Joanna page of the ledger the entry would be--"Miss Joanna, in acct. with the Church,
Dr. by sundry diabolic miracles, she having publicly preached heresy, shown herself a witch,
and even tried hard to corrupt the principles of six church pillars." The romantic interest
of the early and irrelate incidents (last night of Troy, &c.) is thrown as an affluent into
the general river of the personal narrative, whilst yet the capital current of the epos, as
unfolding ihe origin and incunabula of Rome, is not for a moment suffered to be modified by
events so subordinate and so obliquely introduced. Do not ask me to say otherwise; because
if you do, you will lead me into temptation. For I swore early in life never to utter a falsehood,
and, above all, a sycophantic falsehood; and, in the false homage of the modern press towards
women, there is horrible sycophancy. It is as hollow, most of it, and it is as fleeting as
is the love that lurks in uxoriousness. Yet, if a woman asks me to tell a faleshood, I have
long made up my mind--that on moral considerations I will, and ought to do so, whether it be
for any purpose of glory to her, or of screening her foibles (for she does commit a few), or
of humbly, as a vassal, paying a peppercorn rent to her august privilege of caprice. Barring
these cases, I must adhere to my resolution of telling no fibs. Telescopes look up in the market
on that morning, and bear a monstrous premium; for they cheat, probably, in those scientific
worlds as well as we do. How, if it were the "martyred wife of Roland," uttering impassioned
truth--truth odious to the rulers of her country--with her expiring breath?

[NOTE 1. But what of that?

Yes, old--very old phrase: not as ignoramuses fancy, a phrase recently minted by a Repealer
in Ireland.]

[NOTE 6.

Our sisters are always rather uneasy when we say anything of them in Latin or Greek. It is
like giving sealed orders to a sea captain, which he is not to open for his life till he comes
into a certain latitude, which latitude, perhaps, he never will come into, and thus may miss
the secret till he is going to the bottom. Generally I acknowledge that it is not polite before
our female friends to cite a single word of Latin without instantly translating it. But in
this particular case, where I am only iterating a disagreeable truth, they will please to recollect
that the politeness lies in not translating. However, if they insist absolutely on knowing
this very night, before going to bed, what it is that those ill-looking lines contain, I refer
them to Dryden's Virgil, somewhere in the 6th Book of the Æneid, except as to the closing line
and a half, which contain a private suggestion of my own to discontented nymphs anxious to
see the equilibrium of advantages re-established between the two sexes.]

[NOTE 7. But there is no knowing till one tries. Yet, after all, it is not certain whether
the original was Latin. Our English girls, it seems, are as faulty in one way as we English
males in another. He was, therefore, just twice as great a man as Galileo, who certainly invented
(or discovered) the satellites of Jupiter, those very next things extant to mail-coaches in
the two capital points of speed and keeping time, but who did not marry the daughter of a duke.
These last were of a nature to rouse our scorn, from which the transition was not very long
to mutiny. I am not the man to laugh at it. "Any how," was the answer; "don't trouble me, man,
in my glory; through the windows, through the key-holes--how you please." Finally this contumacious
coachman lengthened the checkstrings into a sort of jury-reins, communicating with the horses;
with these he drove as steadily as may be supposed. For we bribed also. With a quotation rather
too trite, I remarked to the coachman,--

  ----"Jam proximus ardet
  Ucalegon." The coachman said nothing, but, by his faint sceptical smile, he
seemed to be thinking that he knew better; for that in fact, Ucalegon, as
it happened, was not in the way-bill.

No dignity is perfect which does not at some point ally itself with the indeterminate and mysterious.
The connection of the mail with the state and the executive government--a connection obvious,
but yet not strictly defined--gave to the whole mail establishment a grandeur and an official
authority which did us service on the roads, and invested us with seasonable terrors. A Welshman,
sitting behind me, asked if I had not felt my heart burn within me during the continuance of
the race?

These were among the gaieties of my earliest and boyish acquaintance with mails. But alike
the gayest and the most terrific of my experiences rose again after years of slumber, armed
with preternatural power to shake my dreaming sensibilities; sometimes, as in the slight case
of Miss Fanny on the Bath road, (which I will immediately mention,) through some casual or
capricious association with images originally gay, yet opening at some stage of evolution into
sudden capacities of horror; sometimes through the more natural and fixed alliances with the
sense of power so various lodged in the mail system. This speed was incarnated in the visible
contagion amongst brutes of some impulse, that, radiating into their natures, had yet its centre
and beginning in man. Now upon this crocodile infirmity of his I planted an easy opportunity
for tendering my homage to Miss Fanny. It must not be supposed that I allowed any trace of
jest, or even of playfulness, to mingle with these expressions of my admiration; that would
have been insulting to her, and would have been false as regarded my own feelings. In fact,
the utter shadowyness of our relations to each other, even after our meetings through seven
or eight years had been very numerous, but of necessity had been very brief, being entirely
on mail-coach allowance--timid, in reality, by the General Post-Office--and watched by a crocodile
belonging to the antepenultimate generation, left it easy for me to do a thing which few people
ever can have done--viz., to make love for seven years, at the same time to be as sincere as
ever creature was, and yet never to compromise myself by overtures that might have been foolish
as regarded my own interests, or misleading as regarded hers. I have mentioned the case at
all for the sake of a dreadful result from it in after years of dreaming. But it seems, ex
abundanti, to yield this moral--viz., that as, in England, the idiot and the half-wit are held
to be under the guardianship of chancery, so the man making love, who is often but a variety
of the same imbecile class, ought to be made a ward of the General Post-Office, whose severe
course of timing and periodical interruption might intercept many a foolish declaration, such
as lays a solid foundation for fifty years' repentance.

Ah, reader! when I look back upon those days, it seems to me that all things change or perish.
Even thunder and lightning, it pains me to say, are not the thunder and lightning which I seem
to remember about the time of Waterloo. Roses, I fear, are degenerating, and, without a Red
revolution, must come to the dust. The Fannies of our island--though this I say with reluctance--are
not improving; and the Bath road is notoriously superannuated. This is the peculiarity that
I wish the reader to notice, as having first been made known to me for a possibility by this
early vision of Fanny on the Bath road. The peculiarity consisted in the confluence of two
different keys, though apparently repelling each other, into the music and governing principles
of the same dream; horror, such as possesses the maniac, and yet, by momentary transitions,
grief, such as may be supposed to possess the dying mother when leaving her infant children
to the mercies of the cruel. Usually, and perhaps always, in an unshaken nervous system, these
two modes of misery exclude each other--here first they met in horrid reconciliation. There
was also a separate peculiarity in the quality of the horror. This was afterwards developed
into far more revolting complexities of misery and incomprehensible darkness; and perhaps I
am wrong in ascribing any value as a causative agency to this particular case on the Bath road--possibly
it furnished merely an occasion that accidentally introduced a mode of horrors certain, to
any rate, to have grown up, with or without the Bath road, from more advanced stages of the
nervous derangement. Yet, as the cubs of tigers or leopards, when domesticated, have been observed
to suffer a sudden development of their latent ferocity under too eager an appeal to their
playfulness--the gaieties of sport in them being too closely connected with the fiery brightness
of their murderous instincts--so I have remarked that the caprices, the gay arabesques, and
the lovely floral luxuriations of dreams, betray a shocking tendency to pass into finer maniacal
splendors. That gaiety, for instance (for such as first it was,) in the dreaming faculty, by
which one principal point of resemblance to a crocodile in the mail-coachman was soon made
to clothe him with the form of a crocodile, and yet was blended with accessory circumstances
derived from his human functions, passed rapidly into a further development, no longer gay
or playful, but terrific, the most terrific that besieges dreams, viz--the horrid inoculation
upon each other of incompatible natures. This horror has always been secretly felt by man;
it was felt even under pagan forms of religion, which offered a very feeble, and also a very
limited gamut for giving expression to the human capacities of sublimity or of horror. We read
it in the fearful composition of the sphinx. The dragon, again, is the snake inoculated upon
the scorpion. The basilisk unites the mysterious malice of the evil eye, unintentional on the
part of the unhappy agent, with the intentional venom of some other malignant natures. But
these horrid complexities of evil agency are but objectively horrid; they inflict the horror
suitable to their compound nature; but there is no insinuation that they feel that horror.
Heraldry is so full of these fantastic creatures, that, in some zoologies, we find a separate
chapter or a supplement dedicated to what is denominated heraldic zoology. And why not? For
these hideous creatures, however visionary[8], have a real traditionary ground in medieval
belief--sincere and partly reasonable, though adulterating with mendacity, blundering, credulity,
and intense superstition. But the dream-horror which I speak of is far more frightful. The
dreamer finds housed within himself--occupying, as it were, some separate chamber in his brain--holding,
perhaps, from that station a secret and detestable commerce with his own heart--some horrid
alien nature. What if it were his own nature repeated,--still, if the duality were distinctly
perceptible, even that--even this mere numerical double of his own consciousness--might be
a curse too mighty to be sustained. But how, if the alien nature contradicts his own, fights
with it, perplexes, and confounds it? How, again, if not one alien nature, but two, but three,
but four, but five, are introduced within what once he thought the inviolable sanctuary of
himself? These, however, are horrors from the kingdoms of anarchy and darkness, which, by their
very intensity, challenge the sanctity of concealment, and gloomily retire from exposition.
Yet it was necessary to mention them, because the first introduction to such appearances (whether
causal, or merely casual) lay in the heraldic monsters, (which monsters were themselves introduced
though playfully,) by the transfigured coachman of the Bath mail. Look at their laurels. Oh,
my poor friend, you are quite mistaken; they are nothing of the kind. Some fair or wake had
kept the people up out of their beds. As we staid for three or four minutes, I alighted. I
told her the main outline of the battle. Did I tell her the truth? Had I the heart to break
up her dreams? For the very few words that I had time for speaking, I governed myself accordingly.
It is singular that she seemed to have no fears, even after this knowledge that the 23d Dragoons
had been conspicuously engaged, for her son's safety: but so much was she enraptured by the
knowledge that his regiment, and therefore he, had rendered eminent service in the trying conflict--a
service which had actually made them the foremost topic of conversation in London--that in
the mere simplicity of her fervent nature, she threw her arms round my neck, and, poor woman,
kissed me.

NOTES.

[NOTE 1.

Lady Madeline Gordon.]

[NOTE 2.

"Resident."--The number on the books was far greater, many of whom kept up an intermitting
communication with Oxford. But I speak of those only who were steadily pursuing their academic
studies, and of those who resided constantly as fellows.]

[NOTE 4.

"Privileged few."

"However visionary."--But are they always visionary? the unicorn, the kraken, the sea-serpent,
are all, perhaps, zoological facts. The unicorn, for instance, so far from being a lie, is
rather too true; for, simply as a monokeras, he is found in the Himalaya, in Africa, and elsewhere,
rather too often for the peace of what in Scotland would be called the intending traveller.
That which really is a lie in the account of the unicorn--viz., his legendary rivalship with
the lion--which lie may God preserve, in preserving the mighty imperial shield that embalms
it--cannot be more destructive to the zoological pretensions of the unicorn, than are to the
same pretensions in the lion our many popular crazes about his goodness and magnanimity, or
the old fancy (adopted by Spenser, and noticed by so many among our elder poets) of his graciousness
to maiden innocence. The wretch is the basest and most cowardly among the forest tribes; nor
has the sublime courage of the English bull-dog ever been so memorably exhibited as in his
hopeless fight at Warwick with the cowardly and cruel lion called Wallace. Another of the traditional
creatures, still doubtful, is the mermaid, upon which Southey once remarked to me, that, if
it had been differently named (as, suppose, a mer-ape,) nobody would have questioned its existence
any more than that of sea-cows, sea-lions, &c. The mermaid has been discredited by her human
name and her legendary human habits. If she would not coquette so much with melancholy sailors,
and brush her hair so assiduously upon solitary rocks, she would be carried on our books for
as honest a reality, as decent a female, as many that are assessed to the poor-rates.]

[NOTE 9.

[THE reader is to understand this present paper, in its two sections of The Vision, &c., and
The Dream-Fugue, as connected with a previous paper on The English Mail-Coach. The ultimate
object was the Dream-Fugue, as an attempt to wrestle with the utmost efforts of music in dealing
with a colossal form of impassioned horror. The Vision of Sudden Death contains the mail-coach
incident, which did really occur, and did really suggest the variations of the Dream, here
taken up by the Fugue, as well as other variations not now recorded. Confluent with these impressions,
from the terrific experience on the Manchester and Glasgow mail, were other and more general
impressions, derived from long familiarity with the English mail, as developed in the former
paper; impressions, for instance, of animal beauty and power, of rapid motion, at that time
unprecedented, of connection with the government and public business of a great nation, but,
above all, of connection with the national victories at an unexampled crisis,--the mail being
the privileged organ for publishing and dispersing all news of that kind. From this function
of the mail, arises naturally the introduction of Waterloo into the fourth variation of the
Fogue; for the mail itself having been carried into the dreams by the incident in the Vision,
naturally all the accessory circumstances of pomp and grandeur investing this national carriage
followed in the train of the principal image.]

What is to be thought of sudden death? It is remarkable that, in different conditions of society
it has been variously regarded as the consummation of an earthly career most fervently to be
desired, and, on the other hand, as that consummation which is most of all to be deprecated.
In that difference, most readers will see little more than the difference between Christianity
and Paganism. But there I hesitate. It seems rather a petition indulged to human infirmity,
than exacted from human piety. But this is no part of the case supposed. And the only new element
in the man's act is not any element of extra immorality, but simply of extra misfortune.

The other remark has reference to the meaning of the word sudden. Any effort, by which such
an evasion can be accomplished, must be as sudden as the danger which it affronts. The man
is called upon, too probably, to die; but to die at the very moment when, by any momentary
collapse, he is self-denounced as a murderer. He had but the twinkling of an eye for his effort,
and that effort might, at the best, have been unavailing; but from this shadow of a chance,
small or great, how if he has recoiled by a treasonable lâcheté? The effort might have been
without hope; but to have risen to the level of that effort, would have rescued him, though
not from dying, yet from dying as a traitor to his duties. Upon the secret mirror of our dreams
such a trial is darkly projected at intervals, perhaps, to every one of us. Many people think
that one man, the patriarch of our race, could not in his single person execute this rebellion
for all his race. Perhaps they are wrong. But, even if not, perhaps in the world of dreams
every one of us ratifies for himself the original act. Our English rite of "Confirmation,"
by which, in years of awakened reason, we take upon us the engagements contracted for us in
our slumbering infancy,--how sublime a rite is that! The little postern gate, through which
the baby in its cradle had been silently placed for a time within the glory of God's countenance,
suddenly rises to the clouds as a triumphal arch, through which, with banners displayed and
martial pomps, we make our second entry as crusading soldiers militant for God, by personal
choice and by sacramental oath. Each man says in effect--"Lo! I rebaptise myself; and that
which once was sworn on my behalf, now I swear for myself."

As I drew near to the Manchester post office, I found that it was considerably past midnight;
but to my great relief, as it was important for me to be in Westmorland by the morning, I saw
by the huge saucer eyes of the mail, blazing through the gloom of overhanging houses, that
my chance was not yet lost. By the way, I may as well mention at this point, since a circumstantial
accuracy is essential to the effect of my narrative, that there was no other person of any
description whatever about the mail--the guard, the coachman, and myself being allowed for--except
only one--a horrid creature of the class known to the world as insiders, but whom young Oxford
called sometimes "Trojans," in opposition to our Grecian selves, and sometimes "vermin." A
Turkish Effendi, who piques himself on good breeding, will never mention by name a pig. Yet
it is but too often that he has reason to mention this animal; since constantly, in the streets
of Stamboul, he has his trousers deranged or polluted by this vile creature running between
his legs. But under any excess of hurry he is always careful, out of respect to the company
he is dining with, to suppress the odious name, and to call the wretch "that other creature,"
as though all animal life beside formed one group, and this odious beast (to whom, as Chrysippus
observed, salt serves as an apology for a soul) formed another and alien group on the outside
of creation. Now I, who am an English Effendi, that think myself to understand good-breeding
as well as any son of Othman, beg my reader's pardon for having mentioned an insider by his
gross natural name. I shall do so no more; and, if I should have occasion to glance at so painful
a subject, I shall always call him "that other creature." Let us hope, however, that no such
distressing occasion will arise. But, by the way, an occasion arises at this moment; for the
reader will be sure to ask, when we come to the story, "Was this other creature present?" He
was not; or more correctly, perhaps, it was not. We dropped the creature--or the creature,
by natural imbecility, dropped itself--within the first ten miles from Manchester. In the latter
case, I wish to make a philosophic remark of a moral tendency. When I die, or when the reader
dies, and by repute suppose of fever, it will never be known whether we died in reality of
the fever or of the doctor. But this other creature, in the case of dropping out of the coach,
will enjoy a coroner's inquest; consequently he will enjoy an epitaph. For I insist upon it,
that the verdict of a coroner's jury makes the best of epitaphs. It is brief, so that the public
all find time to read; it is pithy, so that the surviving friends (if any can survive such
a loss) remember it without fatigue; it is upon oath, so that rascals and Dr. Johnsons cannot
pick holes in it. "Died through the visitation of intense stupidity, by impinging on a moonlight
night against the off hind wheel of the Glasgow mail! Deodand upon the said wheel--two-pence."
What a simple lapidary inscription! Nobody much in the wrong but an off-wheel; and with few
acquaintances; and if it were but rendered into choice Latin, though there would be a little
bother in finding a Ciceronian word for "off-wheel," Marcellus himself, that great master of
sepulchral eloquence, could not show a better. Why I call this little remark moral, is, from
the compensation it points out. Here, by the supposition, is that other creature on the one
side, the beast of the world; and he (or it) gets an epitaph. You and I, on the contrary, the
pride of our friends, get none.

But why linger on the subject of vermin? That made him blind to my merits. Irritating as this
blindness was, (surely it could not be envy?) he always courted my conversation, in which art
I certainly had the whip-hand of him. But can they lay their hands on their hearts, and say
that they were in time for me? I, during my life, have often had to wait for the post-office;
the post-office never waited a minute for me. What are they about? We can hear the flails going
at this moment. The first five of these, dated from Manchester, terminated in Lancaster, which
was therefore fifty-five miles north of Manchester, and the same distance exactly from Liverpool.
"Oh, Cyclops!" I exclaimed more than once, "Cyclops, my friend; thou art mortal. Thou snorest."
Through this first eleven miles, however, he betrayed his infirmity--which I grieve to say
he shared with the whole Pagan Pantheon--only by short stretches. On waking up, he made an
apology for himself, which, instead of mending the matter, laid an ominous foundation for coming
disasters. During the night, or that part of it when the least temptations existed to conviviality,
he was driving. What could injure us? Our bulk and impetus charmed us against peril in any
collision. The guard subsequently found it impossible, after this danger had passed. Not the
grasp only, but also the position of this Polyphemus, made the attempt impossible. You still
think otherwise. Whoever it was, something must be attempted to warn them. Upon the other party
rests the active responsibility, but upon us--and, woe is me! that us was my single self--rest
the responsibility of warning. Yet, how should this be accomplished? Might I not seize the
guard's horn? Already, on the first thought, I was making my way over the roof to the guard's
seat. What is it that I shall do? For five he sate with eyes upraised, like one that prayed
in sorrow, under some extremity of doubt, for wisdom to guide him towards the better choice.
The little cany carriage--partly perhaps from the dreadful torsion of the wheels in its recent
movement, partly from the thundering blow we had given to it--as if it sympathized with human
horror, was all alive with tremblings and shiverings. The young man sat like a rock. He stirred
not at all.

DREAM-FUGUE.

2. "Are they blind? Do they woo their ruin?"

3.

4. The rivers were silent as we crossed.

And of their chaunting was no end; of our headlong pace was neither pause nor remission. There
is another Campo Santo at Naples, formed, however, (I presume,) on the example given by Pisa.
Possibly the idea may have been more extensively copied.

Then rose the agitation, spreading through the infinite cathedral, to its agony; then was completed
the passion of the mighty fugue. We, that spread flight before us, heard the tumult, as of
flight, mustering behind us. In fear we looked round for the unknown steps that, in flight
or in pursuit, were gathering upon our own. Who were these that followed? The faces, which
no man could count--whence were they? "Oh, darkness of the grave!" What ailed me, that I should
fear when the triumphs of earth were advancing? Ah! Pariah heart within me, that couldst never
hear the sound of joy without sullen whispers of treachery in ambush; that, from six years
old, didst never hear the promise of perfect love, without seeing aloft amongst the stars fingers
as of a man's hand, writing the secret legend--"Ashes to ashes, dust to dust!"--wherefore shouldst
thou not fear, though all men should rejoice? But I heard a voice from heaven, which said--"Let
there be no reflux of panic--let there be no more fear, and no more sudden death! Cover them
with joy as the tides cover the shore!" That heard the children of the choir, that heard the
children of the grave. All the hosts of jubilation made ready to move.

DINNER, REAL AND REPUTED.

Great misconceptions have always prevailed about the Roman dinner. Dinner [coena] was the only
meal which the Romans as a nation took. It was no accident, but arose out of their whole social
economy. This we shall show by running through the history of a Roman day. Ridentem dicere,
verum quid vetat? And the course of this review will expose one or two important truths in
ancient political economy, which have been wholly overlooked.

With the lark it was that the Roman rose. Not that the earliest lark rises so early in Latium
as the earliest lark in England; that is, during summer: but then, on the other hand, neither
does it ever rise so late. The Roman citizen was stirring with the dawn--which, allowing for
the shorter longest-day and longer shortest-day of Rome, you may call about four in summer--about
seven in winter. Why did he do this? Because he went to bed at a very early hour. But why did
he do that? By backing in this way, we shall surely back into the very well of truth: always,
if it is possible, let us have the pourquoi of the pourquoi. The Roman went to bed early for
two special reasons. 1st, Because in Rome, which had been built for a martial destiny, every
habit of life had reference to the usages of war. Every citizen, if he were not a mere proletarian
animal kept at the public cost, held himself a sort of soldier-elect: the more noble he was,
the more was his liability to military service: in short, all Rome, and at all times, was consciously
"in procinct."[1] Now it was a principle of ancient warfare, that every hour of daylight had
a triple worth, if valued against hours of darkness. That was one reason--a reason suggested
by the understanding. But there was a second reason, far more remarkable; and this was a reason
dictated by a blind necessity. It is an important fact, that this planet on which we live,
this little industrious earth of ours, has developed her wealth by slow stages of increase.
She was far from being the rich little globe in Cæsar's days that she is at present. The earth
in our days is incalculably richer, as a whole, than in the time of Charlemagne: at that time
she was richer, by many a million of acres, than in the era of Augustus. In that Augustan era
we descry a clear belt of cultivation, averaging about six hundred miles in depth, running
in a ring-fence about the Mediterranean. This belt, and no more, was in decent cultivation.
Beyond that belt, there was only a wild Indian cultivation. At present what a difference! We
have that very belt, but much richer, all things considered æquatis æquandis, than in the Roman
era. The reader must not look to single cases, as that of Egypt or other parts of Africa, but
take the whole collectively. On that scheme of valuation, we have the old Roman belt, the Mediterranean
riband not much tarnished, and we have all the rest of Europe to boot--or, speaking in scholar's
language, as a lucro ponamus. We say nothing of remoter gains. Such being the case, our mother,
the earth, being (as a whole) so incomparably poorer, could not in the Pagan era support the
expense of maintaining great empires in cold latitudes. Her purse would not reach that cost.
Wherever she undertook in those early ages to rear man in great abundance, it must be where
nature would consent to work in partnership with herself; where warmth was to be had for nothing;
where clothes were not so entirely indispensable but that a ragged fellow might still keep
himself warm; where slight shelter might serve; and where the soil, if not absolutely richer
in reversionary wealth, was more easily cultured. Nature must come forward liberally, and take
a number of shares in every new joint-stock concern before it could move. Man, therefore, went
to bed early in those ages, simply because his worthy mother earth could not afford him candles.
She, good old lady, (or good young lady, for geologists know not[2] whether she is in that
stage of her progress which corresponds to gray hairs, or to infancy, or to "a certain age,")--she,
good lady, would certainly have shuddered to hear any of her nations asking for candles. "Candles!"
She would have said, "Who ever heard of such a thing? and with so much excellent daylight running
to waste, as I have provided gratis! What will the wretches want next?"

The daylight, furnished gratis, was certainly "neat," and "undeniable" in its quality, and
quite sufficient for all purposes that were honest. Seneca, even in his own luxurious period,
called those men "lucifugæ," and by other ugly names, who lived chiefly by candle-light. None
but rich and luxurious men, nay, even amongst these, none but idlers did live much by candle-light.
An immense majority of men in Rome never lighted a candle, unless sometimes in the early dawn.
And this custom of Rome was the custom also of all nations that lived round the great pond
of the Mediterranean. In Athens, Egypt, Palestine, Asia Minor, everywhere, the ancients went
to bed, like good boys, from seven to nine o'clock.[3] The Turks and other people, who have
succeeded to the stations and the habits of the ancients, do so at this day.

The Roman, therefore, who saw no joke in sitting round a table in the dark, went off to bed
as the darkness began. Everybody did so. Old Numa Pompilius himself, was obliged to trundle
off in the dusk. Tarquinius might be a very superb fellow; but we doubt whether he ever saw
a farthing rushlight. And, though it may be thought that plots and conspiracies would flourish
in such a city of darkness, it is to be considered, that the conspirators themselves had no
more candles than honest men: both parties were in the dark.

Being up then, and stirring not long after the lark, what mischief did the Roman go about first?
Now-a-days, he would have taken a pipe or a cigar. But, alas for the ignorance of the poor
heathen creatures! they had neither one nor the other. In this point, we must tax our mother
earth with being really too stingy. In the case of the candles, we approve of her parsimony.
Much mischief is brewed by candle-light. But, it was coming it too strong to allow no tobacco.
Many a wild fellow in Rome, your Gracchi, Syllas, Catilines, would not have played "h---- and
Tommy" in the way they did, if they could have soothed their angry stomachs with a cigar--a
pipe has intercepted many an evil scheme. But the thing is past helping now. At Rome, you must
do as "they does" at Rome. So, after shaving, (supposing the age of the Barbati to be passed),
what is the first business that our Roman will undertake? Forty to one he is a poor man, born
to look upwards to his fellow-men--and not to look down upon anybody but slaves. He goes, therefore,
to the palace of some grandee, some top-sawyer of the Senatorian order. This great man, for
all his greatness, has turned out even sooner than himself. For he also has had no candles
and no cigars; and he well knows, that before the sun looks into his portals, all his halls
will be overflowing and buzzing with the matin susurrus of courtiers--the "mane salutantes."[4]
it is as much as his popularity is worth to absent himself, or to keep people waiting. But
surely, the reader may think, this poor man he might keep waiting. No, he might not; for, though
poor, being a citizen, he is a gentleman. That was the consequence of keeping slaves. Wherever
there is a class of slaves, he that enjoys the jus suffragii (no matter how poor) is a gentleman.
The true Latin word for a gentleman is ingentius--a freeman and the son of a freeman.

Yet even here there were distinctions. Under the Emperors, the courtiers were divided into
two classes: with respect to the superior class, it was said of the sovereign--that he saw
them, (videbat;) with respect to the other--that he was seen, ("videbatur.") Even Plutarch
mentions it as a common boast in his times, [Greek: aemas eiden ho basileus]--Cæsar is in the
habit of seeing me; or, as a common plea for evading a suit, [Greek: ora mallon]--I am sorry
to say he is more inclined to look upon others. And this usage derived itself (mark that well!)
from the republican era. The aulic spirit was propagated by the Empire, but from a republican root.

Having paid his court, you will suppose that our friend comes home to breakfast. Not at all:
no such discovery as "breakfast" had then been made: breakfast was not invented for many centuries
after that. We have always admired, and always shall admire, as the very best of all human
stories, Charles Lamb's account of the origin of roast pig in China. Ching Ping, it seems,
had suffered his father's house to be burned down; the outhouses were burned along with the
house; and in one of these the pigs, by accident, were roasted to a turn. Memorable were the
results for all future China and future civilization. Ping, who (like all China beside) had
hitherto eaten his pig raw, now for the first time tasted it in a state of torrefaction. Of
course he made his peace with his father by a part (tradition says a leg) of the new dish.
The father was so astounded with the discovery, that he burned his house down once a year for
the sake of coming at an annual banquet of roast pig. A curious prying sort of fellow, one
Chang Pang, got to know of this. He also burned down a house with a pig in it, and had his
eyes opened. The secret was ill kept--the discovery spread--many great conversions were made--houses
were blazing in every part of the Celestial Empire. The insurance offices took the matter up.
One Chong Pong, detected in the very act of shutting up a pig in his drawing-room, and then
firing a train, was indicted on a charge of arson. The chief justice of Pekin, on that occasion,
requested an officer of the court to hand him a piece of the roast pig, the corpus delicti,
for pure curiosity led him to taste; but within two days after it was observed that his lordship's
town-house was burned down. In short, all China apostatized to the new faith; and it was not
until some centuries had passed, that a great genius arose, who established the second era
in the history of roast pig, by showing that it could be had without burning down a house.

No such genius had yet arisen in Rome. Breakfast was not suspected. No prophecy, no type of
breakfast had been published. In fact, it took as much time and research to arrive at that
great discovery as at the Copernican system. True it is, reader, that you have heard of such
a word as jentaculum; and your dictionary translates that old heathen word by the Christian
word breakfast. But dictionaries, one and all, are dull deceivers. Between jentaculum and breakfast
the differences are as wide as between a horse-chestnut and chestnut horse; differences in
the time when, in the place where, in the manner how, but preeminently in the thing which.

Galen is a good authority upon such a subject, since, if (like other pagans) he ate no breakfast
himself, in some sense he may be called the cause of breakfast to other men, by treating of
those things which could safely be taken upon an empty stomach. As to the time, he (like many
other authors) says, [peri tritaen, ae (to makroteron) peri tetartaen,] about the third, or
at farthest about the fourth hour: and so exact is he, that he assumes the day to lie exactly
between six and six o'clock, and to be divided into thirteen equal portions. So the time will
be a few minutes before nine, or a few minutes before ten, in the forenoon. That seems fair
enough. But it is not time in respect to its location that we are so much concerned with, as
time in respect to its duration. Now, heaps of authorities take it for granted, that you are
not to sit down--you are to stand; and, as to the place, that any place will do--"any corner
of the forum," says Galen, "any corner that you fancy;" which is like referring a man for his
salle à manger to Westminster Hall or Fleet Street. Augustus, in a letter still surviving,
tells us that he jentabat, or took his jentaculum in his carriage; now in a wheel carriage,
(in essedo,) now in a litter or palanquin (in lecticâ.) This careless and disorderly way as
to time and place, and other circumstances of haste, sufficiently indicate the quality of the
meal you are to expect. Already you are "sagacious of your quarry from so far." Not that we
would presume, excellent reader, to liken you to Death, or to insinuate that you are "a grim
feature." But would it not make a saint "grim," to hear of such preparations for the morning
meal? And then to hear of such consummations as panis siccus, dry bread; or, (if the learned
reader thinks it will taste better in Greek,) [Greek: artos xaeros!] And what may this word
dry happen to mean? "Does it mean stale bread?" says Salmasius. "Shall we suppose," says he,
in querulous words, "molli et recenti opponi," and from that antithesis conclude it to be,
"durum et non recens coctum, eoque sicciorem?" Hard and stale, and for that reason the more
arid! Not quite so bad as that, we hope. Or again--"siccum pro biscocto, ut hodie vocamus,
sumemus?"[5] By hodie Salmasius means, amongst his countrymen of France, where biscoctus is
verbatim reproduced in the word bis (twice) cuit, (baked;) whence our own biscuit. Biscuit
might do very well, could we be sure that it was cabin biscuit: but Salmasius argues--that
in this case he takes it to mean "buccellatum, qui est panis nauticus;" that is, the ship company's
biscuit, broken with a sledge-hammer. In Greek, for the benefit again of the learned reader,
it is termed [Greek: dipuros], indicating that it has passed twice under the action of fire.

"Well," you say, "No matter if it had passed fifty times--and through the fires of Moloch;
only let us have this biscuit, such as it is." In good faith, then, fasting reader, you are
not likely to see much more than you have seen. It is a very Barmecide feast, we do assure
you--this same "jentaculum;" at which abstinence and patience are much more exercised than
the teeth: faith and hope are the chief graces cultivated, together with that species of the
magnificum which is founded on the ignotum. Even this biscuit was allowed in the most limited
quantities; for which reason it is that the Greeks called this apology for a a meal by the
name of [Greek: bouchismos], a word formed (as many words were in the Post-Augustan ages) from
a Latin word--viz., buccea, a mouthful; not literally such, but so much as a polished man could
allow himself to put into his mouth at once. "We took a mouthful," says Sir William Waller,
the Parliamentary general, "took a mouthful; paid our reckoning; mounted; and were off." But
there Sir William means, by his plausible "mouthful," something very much beyond either nine
or nineteen ordinary quantities of that denomination, whereas the Roman "jentaculum" was literally
such; and, accordingly, one of the varieties under which the ancient vocabularies express this
model of evanescent quantities is gustatio, a mere tasting; and again it is called by another
variety, gustus, a mere taste: [whence by the usual suppression of the s, comes the French
word for a collation or luncheon, viz. gouter] Speaking of his uncle, Pliny the Younger says--"Post
solem plerumque lavabatur; deinde gustabat; dormiebat minimum; mox, quasi alio die, studebat
in coenæ tempus". "After taking the air he bathed; after that he broke his fast on a bit of
biscuit, and took a very slight siesta: which done, as if awaking to a new day, he set in regularly
to his studies, and pursued them to dinner-time." Gustabat here meant that nondescript meal
which arose at Rome when jentaculum and prandium were fused into one, and that only a taste
or mouthful of biscuit, as we shall show farther on.

Possibly, however, most excellent reader, like some epicurean traveller, who, in crossing the
Alps, finds himself weather-bound at St. Bernard's on Ash-Wednesday, you surmise a remedy:
you descry some opening from "the loopholes of retreat," through which a few delicacies might
be insinuated to spread verdure on this arid desert of biscuit. Casuistry can do much. A dead
hand at casuistry has often proved more than a match for Lent with all his quarantines. But
sorry we are to say that, in this case, no relief is hinted at in any ancient author. A grape
or two, (not a bunch of grapes,) a raisin or two, a date, an olive--these are the whole amount
of relief[6] which the chancery of the Roman kitchen granted in such cases. All things here
hang together, and prove each other; the time, the place, the mode, the thing. Well might man
eat standing, or eat in public, such a trifle as this. Go home to such a breakfast as this!
You would as soon think of ordering a cloth to be laid in order to eat a peach, or of asking
a friend to join you in an orange. No man makes "two bites of a cherry." So let us pass on
to the other stages of the day. Only in taking leave of this morning stage, throw your eyes
back with us, Christian reader, upon this truly heathen meal, fit for idolatrous dogs like
your Greeks and your Romans; survey, through the vista of ages, that thrice-cursed biscuit,
with half a fig, perhaps, by way of garnish, and a huge hammer by its side, to secure the certainty
of mastication, by previous comminution. Then turn your eyes to a Christian breakfast--hot
rolls, eggs, coffee, beef; but down, down, rebellious visions: we need say no more! You, reader,
like ourselves, will breathe a malediction on the classical era, and thank your stars for making
you a Romanticist. Every morning we thank ours for keeping us back, and reserving us to an
age in which breakfast had been already invented. In the words of Ovid we say:--

"Prisca juvent alios: ego me nunc denique natum Gratulor. Hæc ætas moribus apta meis."

Our friend, the Roman cit, has therefore thus far, in his progress through life, obtained no
breakfast, if he ever contemplated an idea so frantic. But it occurs to you, our faithful reader,
that perhaps he will not always be thus unhappy. We could bring waggon-loads of sentiments,
Greek as well as Roman, which prove, more clearly than the most eminent pikestaff, that, as
the wheel of fortune revolves, simply out of the fact that it has carried a man downwards,
it must subsequently carry him upwards, no matter what dislike that wheel, or any of its spokes,
may bear to that man: "non, si male nunc sit, et olim sic erit:" and that if a man, through
the madness of his nation, misses coffee and hot rolls at nine, he may easily run into a leg
of mutton at twelve. True it is he may do so: truth is commendable; and we will not deny that
a man may sometimes, by losing a breakfast, gain a dinner. Such things have been in various
ages, and will be again, but not at Rome. There are reasons against it. We have heard of men
who consider life under the idea of a wilderness--dry as "a remainder biscuit after a voyage:"
and who consider a day under the idea of a little life. Life is the macrocosm, or world at
large; day is the microcosm, or world in miniature. Consequently, if life is a wilderness,
then day, as a little life, is a little wilderness. And this wilderness can be safely traversed
only by having relays of fountains, or stages for refreshment. Such stages, they conceive,
are found in the several meals which Providence has stationed at due intervals through the
day, whenever the perverseness of man does not break the chain, or derange the order of succession.

These are the anchors by which man rides in that billowy ocean between morning and night. The
first anchor, viz., breakfast, having given way in Rome, the more need there is that he should
pull up by the second; and that is often reputed to be dinner. And as your dictionary, good
reader, translated breakfast by that vain word jentaculum, so, doubtless, it will translate
dinner by that still vainer word prandium. Sincerely we hope that your own dinner on this day,
and through all time coming, may have a better root in fact and substance than this most visionary
of all baseless things--the Roman prandium, of which we shall presently show you that the most
approved translation is moonshine.

Reader, we are not jesting here. In the very spirit of serious truth, we assure you, that the
delusion about "jentaculum" is even exceeded by this other delusion about "prandium." Salmasius
himself, for whom a natural prejudice of place and time partially obscured the truth, admits,
however, that prandium was a meal which the ancients rarely took; his very words are--"raro
prandebant veteres." Now, judge for yourself of the good sense which is shown in translating
by the word dinner, which must of necessity mean the chief meal--a Roman word which represents
a fancy meal, a meal of caprice, a meal which few people took. At this moment, what is the
single point of agreement between the noon meal of the English laborer and the evening meal
of the English gentleman? What is the single circumstance common to both, which causes us to
denominate them by the common name of dinner? It is that in both we recognize the principal
meal of the day, the meal upon which is thrown the onus of the day's support. In everything
else they are as wide asunder as the poles; but they agree in this one point of their function.
Is it credible that, to represent such a meal amongst ourselves, we select a Roman word so
notoriously expressing a mere shadow, a pure apology, that very few people ever tasted it--nobody
sate down to it--not many washed their hands after it, and gradually the very name of it became
interchangeable with another name, implying the slightest possible act of trying or sipping?
"Post larationem sine mensâ prandium," says Seneca, "post quod non sunt lavandæ manus;" that
is, "after bathing, I take a prandium without sitting down to table, and such a prandium as
brings after itself no need of washing the hands." No; moonshine as little soils the hands
as it oppresses the stomach.

Reader! we, as well as Pliny, had an uncle, an East Indian uncle; doubtless you have such an
uncle; everybody has an Indian uncle. Generally such a person is "rather yellow, rather yellow,"
[to quote Canning versus Lord Durham:] that is the chief fault with his physics; but, as to
his morals, he is universally a man of princely aspirations and habits. He is not always so
orientally rich as he is reputed; but he is always orientally munificent. Call upon him at
any hour from two to five, he insists on your taking tiffin: and such a tiffin! The English
corresponding term is luncheon: but how meagre a shadow is the European meal to its glowing
Asiatic cousin! Still, gloriously as tiffin shines, does anybody imagine that it is a vicarious
dinner, or ever meant to be the substitute of dinner? Wait till eight, and you will have your
eyes opened on that subject. So of the Roman prandium: had it been as luxurious as it was simple,
still it was always viewed as something meant only to stay the stomach, as a prologue to something
beyond. The prandium was far enough from giving the feeblest idea of the English luncheon;
yet it stood in the same relation to the Roman day. Now to Englishmen that meal scarcely exists;
and were it not for women, whose delicacy of organization does not allow them to fast so long
as men, would probably be abolished. It is singular in this, as in other points, how nearly
England and ancient Rome approximate. We all know how hard it is to tempt a man generally into
spoiling his appetite, by eating before dinner. The same dislike of violating what they called
the integrity of the appetite, [integram famem,] existed at Rome. Every man who knows anything
of Latin critically, sees the connection of the word integer with in and tetigi: integer means
what is intact, unviolated by touch. Cicero, when protesting against spoiling his appetite
for dinner, by tasting anything beforehand, says, integram famem ad coenam afferam; I shall
bring to dinner an appetite untampered with. Nay, so much stress did the Romans lay on maintaining
this primitive state of the appetite undisturbed, that any prelusions with either jentaculum
or prandium were said, by a very strong phrase indeed, polluere famem, to pollute the sanctity
of the appetite. The appetite was regarded as a holy vestal flame, soaring upwards towards
dinner throughout the day: if undebauched, it tended to its natural consummation in coena:
expired like a phoenix, to rise again out of its own ashes. On this theory, to which language
had accommodated itself, the two prelusive meals of nine o'clock, A.M., and of one, P.M., so
far from being ratified by the public sense, and adopted into the economy of the day, were
regarded gloomily as gross irregularities, enormities, debauchers of the natural instinct;
and, in so far as they thwarted that instinct, lessened it, or depraved it, were universally
held to be full of pollution; and, finally, to profane a motion of nature. Such was the language.

But we guess what is passing in the reader's mind. He thinks that all this proves the prandium
to have been a meal of little account; and in very many cases absolutely unknown. But still
he thinks all this might happen to the English dinner--that might be neglected; supper might
be generally preferred; and, nevertheless, dinner would be as truly entitled to the name of
dinner as before. Many a student neglects his dinner; enthusiasm in any pursuit must often
have extinguished appetite for all of us. Many a time and oft did this happen to Sir Isaac
Newton. Evidence is on record, that such a deponent at eight o'clock, A.M., found Sir Isaac
with one stocking on, one off; at two, said deponent called him to dinner. Being interrogated
whether Sir Isaac had pulled on the minus stocking, or gartered the plus stocking, witness
replied that he had not. Being asked if Sir Isaac came to dinner, replied that he did not.
Being again asked, "At sunset, did you look in on Sir Isaac?" Witness replied, "I did." "And
now, upon your conscience, sir, by the virtue of your oath, in what state were the stockings?"
Ans. "In statu quo ante bellum." It seems Sir Isaac had fought through that whole battle of
a long day, so trying a campaign to many people--be had traversed that whole sandy Zaarah,
without calling, or needing to call at one of those fountains, stages, or mansiones,[7] by
which (according to our former explanation) Providence has relieved the continuity of arid
soil, which else disfigures that long dreary level. This happens to all; but was dinner not
dinner, and did supper become dinner, because Sir Isaac Newton ate nothing at the first, and
threw the whole day's support upon the last? No, you will say, a rule is not defeated by one
casual deviation, nor by one person's constant deviation. Everybody else was still dining at
two, though Sir Isaac might not; and Sir Isaac himself on most days no more deferred his dinner
beyond two, than he sate with one stocking off. But what if everybody, Sir Isaac included,
had deferred his substantial meal until night, and taken a slight refection only at two? The
question put does really represent the very case which has happened with us in England. In
1700, a large part of London took a meal at two, P.M., and another at seven or eight, P.M.
In 1839, a large part of London is still doing the very same thing, taking one meal at two,
and another at seven or eight. But the names are entirely changed: the two o'clock meal used
to be called dinner, and is now called luncheon; the eight o'clock meal used to be called supper,
and is now called dinner.

Now the question is easily solved: because, upon reviewing the idea of dinner, we soon perceive
that time has little or no connection with it: since, both in England and France, dinner has
travelled, like the hand of a clock, through every hour between ten, A.M. and ten, P.M. We
have a list, well attested, of every successive hour between these limits having been the known
established hour for the royal dinner-table within the last three hundred and fifty years.
Time, therefore, vanishes from the equation: it is a quantity as regularly exterminated as
in any algebraic problem. The true elements of the idea, are evidently these:--1. That dinner
is that meal, no matter when taken, which is the principal meal; i.e. the meal on which the
day's support is thrown. 2. That it is the meal of hospitality. 3. That it is the meal (with
reference to both Nos 1 and 2) in which animal food predominates. 4. That it is that meal which,
upon necessity arising for the abolition of all but one, would naturally offer itself as that
one. Apply these four tests to prandium:--How could that meal answer to the first test, as
the day's support, which few people touched? How could that meal answer to the second test,
as the meal of hospitality, at which nobody sate down? How could that meal answer to the third
test, as the meal of animal food, which consisted exclusively and notoriously of bread? Or
to the fourth test, of the meal entitled to survive the abolition of the rest, which was itself
abolished at all times in practice?

Tried, therefore, by every test, prandium vanishes. But we have something further to communicate
about this same prandium.

I. It came to pass, by a very natural association of feeling, that prandium and jentuculum,
in the latter centuries of Rome, were generally confounded. This result was inevitable. Both
professed the same basis Both came in the morning. Both were fictions. Hence they were confounded.

That fact speaks for itself,--breakfast and luncheon never could have been confounded; but
who would be at the pains of distinguishing two shadows? In a gambling-house of that class,
where you are at liberty to sit down to a splendid banquet, anxiety probably prevents your
sitting down at all; but, if you do, the same cause prevents your noticing what you eat. So
of the two pseudo meals of Rome, they came in the very midst of the Roman business; viz. from
nine, A.M. to two, P.M. Nobody could give his mind to them, had they been of better quality.
There lay one cause of their vagueness, viz.--in their position. Another cause was, the common
basis of both. Bread was so notoriously the predominating "feature" in each of these prelusive
banquets, that all foreigners at Rome, who communicated with Romans through the Greek language,
knew both the one and the other by the name of [Greek: artositos], or the bread repast. Originally
this name had been restricted to the earlier meal. But a distinction without a difference could
not sustain itself: and both alike disguised their emptiness under this pompous quadrisyllable.
In the identity of substance, therefore, lay a second ground of confusion. And, then, thirdly,
even as to the time, which had ever been the sole real distinction, there arose from accident
a tendency to converge. For it happened that while some had jentaculum but no prandium, others
had prandium but no jentaculum; a third party had both; a fourth party, by much the largest,
had neither. Out of which varieties (who would think that a nonentity could cut up into so
many somethings?) arose a fifth party of compromisers, who, because they could not afford a
regular coena, and yet were hospitably disposed, fused the two ideas into one; and so, because
the usual time for the idea of a breakfast was nine to ten, and for the idea of a luncheon
twelve to one, compromised the rival pretensions by what diplomatists call a mezzo termine;
bisecting the time at eleven, and melting the two ideas into one. But by thus merging the separate
times of each, they abolished the sole real difference that had ever divided them. Losing that,
they lost all.

Perhaps, as two negatives make one affirmative, it may be thought that two layers of moonshine
might coalesce into one pancake; and two Barmecide banquets might compose one poached egg.
Of that the company were the best judges. But probably, as a rump and dozen, in our land of
wagers, is construed with a very liberal latitude as to the materials, so Martial's invitation,
"to take bread with him at eleven," might be understood by the [Greek: sunetoi] as significant
of something better than [Greek: artositos]. Otherwise, in good truth, "moonshine and turn-out"
at eleven, A.M., would be even worse than "tea and turn-out" at eight, P.M., which the "fervida
juventus" of young England so loudly detests. But however that might be, in this convergement
of the several frontiers, and the confusion that ensued, one cannot wonder that, whilst the
two bladders collapsed into one idea, they actually expanded into four names, two Latin and
two Greek, gustus and gustatio, [Greek: geusis], and [Greek: geusma], which all alike express
the merely tentative or exploratory act of a prægustator or professional "taster" in a king's
household: what, if applied to a fluid, we should denominate sipping.

At last, by so many steps all in one direction, things had come to such a pass--the two prelusive
meals of the Roman morning, each for itself separately vague from the beginning, had so communicated
and interfused their several and joint vaguenesses, that at last no man knew or cared to know
what any other man included in his idea of either; how much or how little. And you might as
well have hunted in the woods of Ethiopia for Prester John, or fixed the parish of the everlasting
Jew,[8] as have attempted to say what "jentaculum" might be, or what "prandium." Only one thing
was clear--what they were not. Neither was or wished to be anything that people cared for.
They were both empty shadows; but shadows as they were, we find from Cicero that they had a
power of polluting and profaning better things than themselves.

We presume that no rational man will henceforth look for "dinner"--that great idea according
to Dr. Johnson--that sacred idea according to Cicero--in a bag of moonshine on one side, or
a bag of pollution on the other. Prandium, so far from being what our foolish dictionaries
pretend--dinner itself--never in its palmiest days was more or other than a miserable attempt
at being luncheon. It was a conatus, what physiologists call a nisus, a struggle in a very
ambitious spark, or scintilla, to kindle into a fire. This nisus went on for some centuries;
but finally issued in smoke. If prandium had worked out his ambition, had "the great stream
of tendency" accomplished all his wishes, prandium never could have been more than a very indifferent
luncheon. But now,

II. We have to offer another fact, ruinous to our dictionaries on another ground. Various circumstances
have disguised the truth, but a truth it is, that "prandium", in its very origin and incunabula,
never was a meal known to the Roman culina. In that court it was never recognized except as
an alien. It had no original domicile in the city of Rome. It was a vot casfren-sis, a word
and an idea purely martial, and pointing to martial necessities. Amongst the new ideas proclaimed
to the recruit, this was one--"Look for no 'coenu', no regular dinner, with us. Resign these
unwarlike notions. It is true that even war has its respites; in these it would be possible
to have our Roman coena with all its equipage of ministrations. Such luxury untunes the mind
for doing and suffering. Let us voluntarily renounce it; that when a necessity of renouncing
it arrives, we may not feel it among the hardships of war. From the day when you enter the
gates of the camp, reconcile yourself, tyro, to a new fashion of meal, to what in camp dialect
we call prandium." This "prandium," this essentially military meal, was taken standing, by
way of symbolizing the necessity of being always ready for the enemy. Hence the posture in
which it was taken at Rome, the very counter-pole to the luxurious posture of dinner. A writer
of the third century, a period from which the Romans naturally looked back upon everything
connected with their own early habits, and with the same kind of interest as we extend to our
Alfred, (separated from us as Romulus from them by just a thousand years,) in speaking of prandium,
says, "Quod dictum est parandium, ab eo quod milites ad bellum paret." Isidorus again says,
"Proprie apud veteres prandium vocatum fuisse oinnem militum cibum ante pugnam;" i.e. "that,
properly speaking, amongst our ancestors every military meal taken before battle was termed
prandium." According to Isidore, the proposition is reciprocating, viz., that, as every prandium
was a military meal, so every military meal was called prandium. But, in fact, the reason of
that is apparent. Whether in the camp or the city, the early Romans had probably but one meal
in a day. That is true of many a man amongst ourselves by choice; it is true also, to our knowledge,
of some horse regiments in our service, and may be of all. This meal was called coena, or dinner
in the city--prandium in camps. In the city it would always be tending to one fixed hour. In
the camp innumerable accidents of war would make it very uncertain. On this account it would
be an established rule to celebrate the daily meal at noon, if nothing hindered; not that a
later hour would not have been preferred had the choice been free; but it was better to have
a certainty at a bad hour, than by waiting for a better hour to make it an uncertainty. For
it was a camp proverb--Pransus, paratus; armed with his daily meal, the soldier is ready for
service. It was not, however, that all meals, as Isidore imagined, were indiscriminately called
prandium; but that the one sole meal of the day, by accidents of war, might, and did, revolve
through all hours of the day.

The first introduction of this military meal into Rome itself, would be through the honorable
pedantry of old centurions, &c., delighting (like the Trunnions, &c., of our navy) to keep
up in peaceful life some image or memorial of their past experience, so wild, so full of peril,
excitement, and romance, as Roman warfare must have been in those ages. Many non-military people
for health's sake, many as an excuse for eating early, many by way of interposing some refreshment
between the stages of forensic business, would adopt this hurried and informal meal. Many would
wish to see their sons adopting such a meal as a training for foreign service in particular,
and for temperance in general. It would also be maintained by a solemn and very interesting
commemoration of this camp repast in Rome.

This commemoration, because it has been grossly misunderstood by Salmasius, (whose error arose
from not marking the true point of a particular antithesis,) and still more, because it is
a distinct confirmation of all we have said as to the military nature of prandium, we shall
detach from the series of our illustrations, by placing it in a separate paragraph.

On a set day the officers of the army were invited by Cæsar to a banquet; it was a circumstance
expressly noticed in the invitation, by the proper officers of the palace, that the banquet
was not a "coena," but a "prandium." What followed, in consequence? Why, that all the guests
sate down in full military accoutrement; whereas, observes the historian, had it been a coena,
the officers would have unbelted their swords; for, he adds, even in Cæsar's presence the officers
lay aside their swords. The word prandium, in short, converted the palace into the imperial
tent; and Cæsar was no longer a civil emperor and princeps senatûs, but became a commander-in-chief
amongst a council of his staff, all belted and plumed, and in full military fig.

On this principle we come to understand why it is, that, whenever the Latin poets speak of
an army as taking food, the word used is always prandens and pransus; and, when the word used
is prandens, then always it is an army that is concerned. Thus Juvenal in a well-known satire--

  ----"Credimus altos
  Desiccasse amnes, epotaque ftumina, Medo Prandente."

Not coenante, observe: you might as well talk of an army taking tea and toast. Nor is that
word ever applied to armies. It is true that the converse is not so rigorously observed: nor
ought it, from the explanations already given. Though no soldier dined, (coenabat,) yet the
citizen sometimes adopted the camp usage and took a prandium. But generally the poets use the
word merely to mark the time of day. In that most humorous appeal of Perseus--"Cur quis non
prandeat, hoc est?" "Is this a sufficient reason for losing one's prandium?" He was obliged
to say prandium, because no exhibitions ever could cause a man to lose his coenia, since none
were displayed at a time of day when anybody in Rome would have attended. Just as, in alluding
to a parliamentary speech notoriously delivered at midnight, an English satirist must have
said, Is this a speech to furnish an argument for leaving one's bed?--not as what stood foremost
in his regard, but as the only thing that could be lost at the time of night.

On this principle, also, viz. by going back to the military origin of prandium, we gain the
interpretation of all the peculiarities attached to it; viz.--1, its early hour--2, its being
taken in a standing posture--3, in the open air--4, the humble quality of its materials--bread
and biscuit, (the main articles of military fare.) In all these circumstances of the meal,
we read, most legibly written, the exotic and military character of the meal.

Thus we have brought down our Roman friend to noonday, or even one hour later than noon, and
to this moment the poor man has had nothing to eat. For, supposing him to be not impransus,
and supposing him jentâsse beside; yet it is evident, (we hope,) that neither one nor the other
means more than what it was often called, viz. [Greek: Bouchismos], or, in plain English, a
mouthful. How long do we intend to keep him waiting? Reader, he will dine at three, or (supposing
dinner put off to the latest) at four. Dinner was never known to be later than the tenth hour
in Rome, which in summer would be past five; but for a far greater proportion of days would
be near four in Rome, except for one or two of the emperors, whom the mere business attached
to their unhappy station kept sometimes dinnerless till six. And so entirely was a Roman the
creature of ceremony, that a national mourning would probably have been celebrated, and the
"sad augurs" would have been called in to expiate the prodigy, had the general dinner lingered
beyond four.

But, meantime, what has our friend been about since perhaps six or seven in the morning? After
paying his little homage to his patronus, in what way has he fought with the great enemy Time
since then? Why, reader, this illustrates one of the most interesting features in the Roman
character. The Roman was the idlest of men. "Man and boy," he was "an idler in the land." He
called himself and his pals "rerum dominos, gentemque togatam;" the gentry that wore the toga.
Yes, and a pretty affair that "toga" was. Just figure to yourself, reader, the picture of a
hardworking man, with horny hands like our hedgers, ditchers, weavers, porters, &c., setting
to work on the highroad in that vast sweeping toga, filling with a strong gale like the mainsail
of a frigate. Conceive the roars with which this magnificent figure would be received into
the bosom of a poor-house detachment sent out to attack the stones on some new line of road,
or a fatigue party of dustmen sent upon secret service. Had there been nothing left as a memorial
of the Romans but that one relic--their immeasurable toga,[9]--we should have known that they
were born and bred to idleness. In fact, except in war, the Roman never did anything at all
but sun himself. Ut se apricaret was the final cause of peace in his opinion; in literal truth,
that he might make an apricot of himself. The public rations at all times supported the poorest
inhabitant of Rome if he were a citizen. Hence it was that Hadrian was so astonished with the
spectacle of Alexandria, "civitas opulenta, fæcunda, in qua nemo vivat otiosus." Here first
he saw the spectacle of a vast city, second only to Rome, where every man had something to
do; "podagrosi quod agant habent; habent cæci quod faciant; ne chiragrici" (those with gout
in the fingers) "apud eos otiosi vivunt." No poor rates levied upon the rest of the world for
the benefit of their own paupers were there distributed gratis. The prodigious spectacle (so
it seemed to Hadrian) was exhibited in Alexandria, of all men earning their bread in the sweat
of their brow. In Rome only, (and at one time in some of the Grecian states,) it was the very
meaning of citizen that he could vote and be idle.

In these circumstances, where the whole sum of life's duties amounted to voting, all the business
a man could have was to attend the public assemblies, electioneering, or factious. These, and
any judicial trial (public or private) that might happen to interest him for the persons concerned,
or for the questions, amused him through the morning; that is, from eight till one. He might
also extract some diversion from the columnæ, or pillars of certain porticoes to which they
pasted advertisements. These affiches must have been numerous; for all the girls in Rome who
lost a trinket, or a pet bird, or a lap-dog, took this mode of angling in the great ocean of
the public for the missing articles.

But all this time we take for granted that there were no shows in a course of exhibition, either
the dreadful ones of the amphitheatre, or the bloodless ones of the circus. If there were,
then that became the business of all Romans; and it was a business which would have occupied
him from daylight until the light began to fail. Here we see another effect from the scarcity
of artificial light amongst the ancients. These magnificent shows went on by daylight. But
how incomparably greater would have been the splendor by lamp-light! What a gigantic conception!
Eighty thousand human faces all revealed under one blaze of lamp-light! Lord Bacon saw the
mighty advantage of candle-light for the pomps and glories of this world. But the poverty of
the earth was the ultimate cause that the Pagan shows proceeded by day. Not that the masters
of the world, who rained Arabian odors and perfumed waters of the most costly description from
a thousand fountains, simply to cool the summer heats, would have regarded the expense of light;
cedar and other odorous woods burning upon vast altars, together with every variety of fragrant
torch, would have created light enough to shed a new day over the distant Adriatic.

However, as there are no public spectacles, we will suppose, and the courts or political meetings,
(if not closed altogether by superstition,) would at any rate be closed in the ordinary course
by twelve or one o'clock, nothing remains for him to do, before returning home, except perhaps
to attend the palæstra, or some public recitation of a poem written by a friend, but in any
case to attend the public baths. For these the time varied; and many people have thought it
tyrannical in some of the Cæsars that they imposed restraints on the time open for the baths;
some, for instance, would not suffer them to open at all before two, and in any case, if you
were later than four or five in summer, you would have to pay a fine which most effectually
cleaned out the baths of all raff, since it was a sum that John Quires could not have produced
to save his life. But it should be considered that the emperor was the steward of the public
resources for maintaining the baths in fuel, oil, attendance, repairs. We are prepared to show,
on a fitting occasion, that every fourth person[10] amongst the citizens bathed daily, and
non-citizens, of course, paid an extra sum. Now the population of Rome was far larger than
has ever been hinted at except by Lipsius. But certain it is, that during the long peace of
the first Cæsars, and after the annonaria prorisio, (that great pledge of popularity to a Roman
prince,) had been increased by the corn tribute from the Nile, the Roman population took an
immense lurch ahead. The subsequent increase of baths, whilst no old ones were neglected, proves
that decisively. And as citizenship expanded by means of the easy terms on which it could be
had, so did the bathers multiply. The population of Rome in the century after Augustus, was
far greater than during that era; and this, still acting as a vortex to the rest of the world,
may have been one great motive with Constantine for "transferring" the capital eastwards; in
reality, for breaking up one monster capital into two of more manageable dimensions. Two o'clock
was often the earliest hour at which the public baths were opened. But in Martial's time a
man could go without blushing (salvâ fronte) at eleven, though even then two o'clock was the
meridian hour for the great uproar of splashing, and swimming, and "larking" in the endless
baths of endless Rome.

And now, at last, bathing finished, and the exercises of the palæstra, at half-past two, or
three, our friend finds his way home--not again to leave it for that day. He is now a new man;
refreshed, oiled with perfumes, his dust washed off by hot water, and ready for enjoyment.
These were the things that determined the time for dinner. Had there been no other proof that
coena was the Roman dinner, this is an ample one. Now first the Roman was fit for dinner, in
a condition of luxurious ease; business ever--that day's load of anxiety laid aside--his cuticle,
as he delighted to talk, cleansed and polished--nothing more to do or to think of until the
next morning, he might now go and dine, and get drunk with a safe conscience. Besides, if he
does not get dinner now, when will he get it? For most demonstrably he has taken nothing yet
which comes near in value to that basin of soup which many of ourselves take at the Roman hour
of bathing. No; we have kept our man fasting as yet. It is to be hoped that something is coming
at last.

It does come,--dinner, the great meal of "coena;" the meal sacred to hospitality and genial
pleasure, comes now to fill up the rest of the day, until light fails altogether.

Many people are of opinion that the Romans only understood what the capabilities of dinner
were. It is certain that they were the first great people that discovered the true secret and
meaning of dinner, the great office which it fulfils, and which we in England are now so generally
acting on. Barbarous nations,--and none were, in that respect, more barbarous than our own
ancestors,--made this capital blunder; the brutes, if you asked them what was the use of dinner,
what it was meant for, stared at you and replied--as a horse would reply if you put the same
question about his provender--that it was to give him strength for finishing his work! Therefore,
if you point your telescope back to antiquity about twelve or one o'clock in the daytime, you
will descry our most worthy ancestors all eating for their very lives, eating as dogs eat,
viz. in bodily fear that some other dog will come and take their dinner away. What swelling
of the veins in the temples! (see Boswell's natural history of Dr. Johnson at dinner;) what
intense and rapid deglutition! what odious clatter of knives and plates! what silence of the
human voice! what gravity! what fury in the libidinous eyes with which they contemplate the
dishes! Positively it was an indecent spectacle to see Dr. Johnson at dinner. But, above all,
what maniacal haste and hurry, as if the fiend were waiting with red-hot pincers to lay hold
of the hindermost!

Oh, reader, do you recognize in this abominable picture your respected ancestors and ours?
Excuse us for saying--"What monsters!" We have a right to call our own ancestors monsters;
and, if so, we must have the same right over yours. For Dr. Southey has shown plainly in the
"Doctor," that every man having four grand parents in the second stage of ascent, (each of
whom having four, therefore,) sixteen in the third, and so on, long before you get to the Conquest,
every man and woman then living in England will be wanted to make up the sum of my separate
ancestors; consequently, you must take your ancestors out of the very same fund, or (if you
are too proud for that) you must go without ancestors. So that, your ancestors being clearly
mine, I have a right in law to call the whole "kit" of them monsters. Quod erat demonstrandum.
Really and upon our honor, it makes one, for the moment, ashamed of one's descent; one would
wish to disinherit one's-self backwards, and (as Sheridan says in the Rivals) to "cut the connection."
Wordsworth has an admirable picture in Peter Bell of "A snug party in a parlor," removed into
limbus patrum for their offences in the flesh:--

  "Cramming, as they on earth were cramm'd;
  All sipping wine, all sipping tea;
  But, as you by their faces see,
  All silent, and all d--d."

How well does that one word describe those venerable ancestral dinners--"All silent!" Contrast
this infernal silence of voice and fury of eye with the "risus amabilis," the festivity, the
social kindness, the music, the wine, the "dulcis insania," of a Roman "coena." We mentioned
four tests for determining what meal is, and what is not, dinner; we may now add a fifth, viz.
the spirit of festal joy and elegant enjoyment, of anxiety laid aside, and of honorable social
pleasure put on like a marriage garment.

And what caused the difference between our ancestors and the Romans? Simply this--the error
of interposing dinner in the middle of business, thus courting all the breezes of angry feeling
that may happen to blow from the business yet to come, instead of finishing, absolutely closing,
the account with this world's troubles before you sit down. That unhappy interpolation ruined
all. Dinner was an ugly little parenthesis between two still uglier clauses of a tee-totally
ugly sentence. Whereas with us, their enlightened posterity, to whom they have the honor to
be ancestors, dinner is a great reaction. There lies our conception of the matter. It grew
out of the very excess of the evil. When business was moderate, dinner was allowed to divide
and bisect it. When it swelled into that vast strife and agony, as one may call it, that boils
along the tortured streets of modern London or other capitals, men began to see the necessity
of an adequate counterforce to push against this overwhelming torrent, and thus maintain the
equilibrium. Were it not for the soft relief of a six o'clock dinner, the gentle manner succeeding
to the boisterous hubbub of the day, the soft glowing lights, the wine, the intellectual conversation,
life in London is now come to such a pass, that in two years all nerves would sink before it.
But for this periodic reaction, the modern business which draws so cruelly on the brain, and
so little on the hands, would overthrow that organ in all but those of coarse organization.
Dinner it is,--meaning by dinner the whole complexity of attendant circumstances,--which saves
the modern brain-working men from going mad.

This revolution as to dinner was the greatest in virtue and value ever accomplished. In fact,
those are always the most operative revolutions which are brought about through social or domestic
changes. A nation must be barbarous, neither could it have much intellectual business, which
dined in the morning. They could not be at ease in the morning. So much must be granted: every
day has its separate quantum, its dose (as the doctrinists of rent phrase it) of anxiety, that
could not be digested so soon as noon. No man will say it. He, therefore, who dined at noon,
was willing to sit down squalid as he was, with his dress unchanged, his cares not washed off.
And what follows from that? Why, that to him, to such a canine or cynical specimen of the genus
homo, dinner existed only as a physical event, a mere animal relief, a mere carnal enjoyment.
For what, we demand, did this fleshly creature differ from the carrion crow, or the kite, or
the vulture, or the cormorant? A French judge, in an action upon a wager, laid it down in law,
that man only had a bouche, all other animals had a gueule: only with regard to the horse,
in consideration of his beauty, nobility, use, and in honor of the respect with which man regarded
him, by the courtesy of Christendom, he might be allowed to have a bouche, and his reproach
of brutality, if not taken away, might thus be hidden. But surely, of the rabid animal who
is caught dining at noonday, the homo ferus, who affronts the meridian sun like Thyestes and
Atreus, by his inhuman meals, we are, by parity of reason, entitled to say, that he has a "maw,"
(so has Milton's Death,) but nothing resembling stomach. And to this vile man a philosopher
would say--"Go away, sir, and come back to me two or three centuries hence, when you have learned
to be a reasonable creature, and to make that physico-intellectual thing out of dinner which
it was meant to be, and is capable of becoming." In Henry VII.'s time the court dined at eleven
in the forenoon. But even that hour was considered so shockingly late in the French court,
that Louis XII. actually had his gray hairs brought down with sorrow to the grave, by changing
his regular hour of half-past nine for eleven, in gallantry to his young English bride.[11]
He fell a victim to late hours in the forenoon. In Cromwell's time they dined at one, P.M.
One century and a half had carried them on by two hours. Doubtless, old cooks and scullions
wondered what the world would come to next. Our French neighbors were in the same predicament.
But they far surpassed us in veneration for the meal. They actually dated from it. Dinner constituted
the great era of the day. L'apres diner is almost the sole date which you find in Cardinal
De Retz's memoirs of the Fronde. Dinner was their Hegira--dinner was their line in traversing
the ocean of day: they crossed the equator when they dined. Our English revolution came next;
it made some little difference, we have heard people say, in Church and State; but its great
effects were perceived in dinner. People now dined at two. So dined Addison for his last thirty
years; so dined Pope, who was coeval with the revolution through his entire life. Precisely
as the rebellion of 1745 arose, did people (but observe, very great people) advance to four,
P.M. Philosophers, who watch the "semina rerum," and the first symptoms of change, had perceived
this alteration singing in the upper air like a coming storm some little time before. About
the year 1740, Pope complains to a friend of Lady Suffolk's dining so late as four. Young people
may bear those things, he observes; but as to himself, now turned of fifty, if such doings
went on, if Lady Suffolk would adopt such strange hours, he must really absent himself from
Marble Hill. Lady Suffolk had a right to please herself: he himself loved her. But if she would
persist, all which remained for a decayed poet was respectfully to "cut his stick, and retire."
Whether Pope ever put up with four o'clock dinners again, we have vainly sought to fathom.
Some things advance continuously, like a flood or a fire, which always make an end of A, eat
and digest it, before they go on to B. Other things advance per saltum--they do not silently
cancer their way onwards, but lie as still as a snake after they have made some notable conquest,
then when unobserved they make themselves up "for mischief," and take a flying bound onwards.
Thus advanced dinner, and by these fits got into the territory of evening. And ever as it made
a motion onwards, it found the nation more civilized, (else the change would not have been
effected,) and raised them to a still higher civilization. The next relay on that line of road,
the next repeating frigate, is Cowper in his poem on Conversation. He speaks of four o'clock
as still the elegant hour for dinner--the hour for the lautiores and the lepidi homines. Now
this was written about 1780, or a little earlier; perhaps, therefore, just one generation after
Pope's Lady Suffolk. But then Cowper was living amongst the rural gentry, not in high life;
yet, again, Cowper was nearly connected by blood with the eminent Whig house of Cowper, and
acknowledged as a kinsman. About twenty-five years after this, we may take Oxford as a good
exponent of the national advance. As a magnificent body of "foundations," endowed by kings,
and resorted to by the flower of the national youth, Oxford is always elegant and even splendid
in her habits. Yet, on the other hand, as a grave seat of learning, and feeling the weight
of her position in the commonwealth, she is slow to move: she is inert as she should be, having
the functions of resistance assigned to her against the popular instinct of movement. Now,
in Oxford, about 1804-5, there was a general move in the dinner hour. Those colleges who dined
at three, of which there were still several, now dined at four; those who had dined at four,
now translated their hour to five. These continued good general hours, but still amongst the
more intellectual orders, till about Waterloo. After that era, six, which had been somewhat
of a gala hour, was promoted to the fixed station of dinner-time in ordinary; and there perhaps
it will rest through centuries. For a more festal dinner, seven, eight, nine, ten, have all
been in requisition since then; but we have not yet heard of any man's dining later than 10,
P.M., except in that single classical instance (so well remembered from our father Joe) of
an Irishman who must have dined much later than ten, because his servant protested, when others
were enforcing the dignity of their masters by the lateness of their dinner hours, that his
master dined "to-morrow."

Were the Romans not as barbarous as our own ancestors at one time? Most certainly they were;
in their primitive ages they took their coena at noon,[12] that was before they had laid aside
their barbarism; before they shaved: it was during their barbarism, and in consequence of their
barbarism, that they timed their coena thus unseasonably. And this is made evident by the fact,
that, so long as they erred in the hour, they erred in the attending circumstances. At this
period they had no music at dinner, no festal graces, and no reposing upon sofas. They sate
bolt upright in chairs, and were as grave as our ancestors, as rabid, and doubtless as furiously
in haste.

With us the revolution has been equally complex. We do not, indeed, adopt the luxurious attitude
of semi-recumbency; our climate makes that less requisite; and, moreover, the Romans had no
knives and forks, which could scarcely be used in that posture: they ate with their fingers
from dishes already cut up--whence the peculiar force of Seneca's "post quod non sunt lavandæ
manus." But exactly in proportion as our dinner has advanced towards evening, have we and has
that advanced in circumstances of elegance, of taste, of intellectual value." That by itself
would be much. Infinite would be the gain for any people that it had ceased to be brutal, animal,
fleshly; ceased to regard the chief meal of the day as a ministration only to an animal necessity;
that they had raised it to a far higher standard; associated it with social and humanizing
feelings, with manners, with graces both moral and intellectual; moral in the self-restraint;
intellectual in the fact, notorious to all men, that the chief arenas for the easy display
of intellectual power are at our dinner tables. But dinner has now even a greater function
than this; as the fervor of our day's business increases, dinner is continually more needed
in its office of a great reaction. We repeat that, at this moment, but for the daily relief
of dinner, the brain of all men who mix in the strife of capitals would be unhinged and thrown
off its centre.

If we should suppose the case of a nation taking three equidistant meals all of the same material
and the same quantity, all milk, for instance, it would be impossible for Thomas Aquinas himself
to say which was or was not dinner. The case would be that of the Roman ancile which dropped
from the skies; to prevent its ever being stolen, the priests made eleven facsimiles of it,
that the thief, seeing the hopelessness of distinguishing the true one, might let all alone.
And the result was, that, in the next generation, nobody could point to the true one. But our
dinner, the Roman coena, is distinguished from the rest by far more than the hour; it is distinguished
by great functions, and by still greater capacities. It is most beneficial; it may become more so.

In saying this, we point to the lighter graces of music, and conversation more varied, by which
the Roman coena was chiefly distinguished from our dinner. We are far from agreeing with Mr.
Croly, that the Roman meal was more "intellectual" than ours. On the contrary, ours is the
more intellectual by much; we have far greater knowledge, far greater means for making it such.
In fact, the fault of our meal is--that it is too intellectual; of too severe a character;
too political; too much tending, in many hands, to disquisition. Reciprocation of question
and answer, variety of topics, shifting of topics, are points not sufficiently cultivated.
In all else we assent to the following passage from Mr. Croly's eloquent Salathiel:--

"If an ancient Roman could start from his slumber into the midst of European life, he must
look with scorn on its absence of grace, elegance, and fancy. But it is in its festivity, and
most of all in its banquets, that he would feel the incurable barbarism of the Gothic blood.
Contrasted with the fine displays that made the table of the Roman noble a picture, and threw
over the indulgence of appetite the colors of the imagination, with what eyes must he contemplate
the tasteless and commonplace dress, the coarse attendants, the meagre ornament, the want of
mirth, music, and intellectual interest--the whole heavy machinery that converts the feast
into the mere drudgery of devouring!"

Thus far the reader knows already that we dissent violently; and by looking back he will see
a picture of our ancestors at dinner, in which they rehearse the very part in relation to ourselves
that Mr. Croly supposes all moderns to rehearse in relation to the Romans; but in the rest
of the beautiful description, the positive, though not the comparative part, we must all concur:--

"The guests before me were fifty or sixty splendidly dressed men," (they were in fact Titus
and his staff, then occupied with the siege of Jerusalem,) "attended by a crowd of domestics,
attired with scarcely less splendor; for no man thought of coming to the banquet in the robes
of ordinary life. The embroidered couches, themselves striking objects, allowed the ease of
position at once delightful in the relaxing climates of the South, and capable of combining
with every grace of the human figure. At a slight distance, the table loaded with plate glittering
under a profusion of lamps, and surrounded by couches thus covered by rich draperies, was like
a central source of light radiating in broad shafts of every brilliant hue. The wealth of the
patricians, and their intercourse with the Greeks, made them masters of the first performances
of the arts. Copies of the most famous statues, and groups of sculpture in the precious metals;
trophies of victories; models of temples; were mingled with vases of flowers and lighted perfumes.
Finally, covering and closing all, was a vast scarlet canopy, which combined the groups beneath
to the eye, and threw the whole into the form that a painter would love."

Mr. Croly then goes on to insist on the intellectual embellishments of the Roman dinner; their
variety, their grace, their adaptation to a festive purpose. The truth is, our English imagination,
more profound than the Roman, is also more gloomy, less gay, less riante. That accounts for
our want of the gorgeous trictinium, with its scarlet draperies, and for many other differences
both to the eye and to the understanding. But both we and the Romans agree in the main point;
we both discovered the true purpose which dinner might serve,--1, to throw the grace of intellectual
enjoyment over an animal necessity; 2, to relieve and antagonize the toil of brain incident
to high forms of social life.

Our object has been to point the eye to this fact; to show uses imperfectly suspected in a
recurring accident of life; to show a steady tendency to that consummation, by holding up,
as in a mirror, (together with occasional glimpses of hidden corners in history,) the corresponding
revolution silently going on in a great people of antiquity.

NOTES.

[NOTE 1.

"In procinct."--Milton's translation (somewhere in The Paradise Regained) of the technical
phrase "in procinctu."]

[NOTE 2.

"Geologists know not."--Observe, reader, we are not at all questioning the Scriptural Chronology
of the earth as a habitation for man, for on the pre-human earth Scripture is silent: not upon
the six thousand years does our doubt revolve, but upon a very different thing, viz. to what
age in man these six thousand years correspond by analogy in a planet. In man the sixtieth
part is a very venerable age. But as to a planet, as to our little earth, instead of arguing
dotage, six thousand years may have scarcely carried her beyond babyhood. Some people think
she is cutting her first teeth; some think her in her teens. But, seriously, it is a very interesting
problem. Do the sixty centuries of our earth imply youth, maturity, or dotage?]

[NOTE 3.

"Everywhere the ancients went to bed, like good boys, from seven to nine o'clock."--As we are
perfectly serious, we must beg the reader, who fancies any joke in all this, to consider what
an immense difference it must have made to the earth, considered as a steward of her own resources-whether
great nations, in a period when their resources were so feebly developed, did, or did not,
for many centuries, require candles; and, we may add, fire. The five heads of human expenditure
are,--1, Food; 2, Shelter; 3, Clothing; 4, Fuel; 5, Light. All were pitched on a lower scale
in the Pagan era; and the two last were almost banished from ancient housekeeping. What a great
relief this must have been to our good mother the earth! who, at first, was obliged to request
of her children that they would settle round the Mediterranean. She could not even afford them
water, unless they would come and fetch it themselves out of a common tank or cistern.]

[NOTE 4.

"The manesalutantes."--There can be no doubt that the levees of modern princes and ministers
have been inherited from this ancient usage of Rome; one which belonged to Rome republican,
as well as Rome imperial. The fiction in our modern practice is--that we wait upon the levé,
or rising of the prince. In France, at one era, this fiction was realized: the courtiers did
really attend the king's dressing. And, as to the queen, even up to the revolution, Marie Antoinette
almost from necessity gave audience at her toilette.]

[NOTE 5.

"Or again, 'siccum pro biscodo, ut hodie vocamus, sumemus?'"--It is odd enough that a scholar
so complete as Salmasius, whom nothing ever escapes, should have overlooked so obvious an alternative
as that of siccus, meaning without opsonium--Scoticè, without "kitchen."]

[NOTE 6.

"The whole amount of relief;"--from which it appears how grossly Locke (see his Education)
was deceived in fancying that Augustus practised any remarkable abstinence in taking only a
bit of bread and a raisin or two, by way of luncheon. Augustus did no more than most people
did; secondly, he abstained only with a view to dinner; and, thirdly, for this dinner he never
waited longer than up to four o'clock.]

[NOTE 7.

"Mansiones"--the halts of the Roman legions, the stationary places of repose which divided
the marches, were so called.]

[NOTE 8.

"The everlasting Jew;"--the German name for what we English call the Wandering Jew. The German
imagination has been most struck with the duration of the man's life, and his unhappy sanctity
from death; the English by the unrestingness of the man's life, his incapacity of repose.]

[NOTE 9.

"Immeasurable toga."--It is very true that in the time of Augustus the toga had disappeared
amongst the lowest plebs, and greatly Augustus was shocked at that spectacle. It is a very
curious fact in itself, especially as expounding the main cause of the civil wars. Mere poverty,
and the absence of bribery from Rome, whilst all popular competition for offices drooped, can
alone explain this remarkable revolution of dress.]

[NOTE 10.

That boys in the Prætexta did not bathe in the public baths, is certain; and most unquestionably
that is the meaning of the expression in Juvenal so much disputed--"Nisi qui nondum ære lavantur."
By æs he means the ahenum, a common name for the public bath, which was made of copper; in
our navy, "the coppers" is a name for the boilers. "Nobody believes in such tales except children,"
is the meaning. This one exclusion cut off three eighths of the Roman males.]

[NOTE 11.

"His young--English bride."--The case of an old man, or one reputed old, marrying a very girlish
wife, is always too much for the gravity of history; and, rather than lose the joke, the historian
prudently disguises the age, which, after all, was little above fifty. And the very persons
who insist on the late dinner as the proximate cause of death, elsewhere insinuate something
else, not so decorously expressed. It is odd that this amiable prince, so memorable as having
been a martyr to late dining at eleven, A.M., was the same person who is so equally memorable
for the noble answer about a King of France not remembering the wrongs of a Duke of Orleans.]

[NOTE 12.

"Took their coena at noon."--And, by the way, in order to show how little coena had to do with
any evening hour (though, in any age but that of our fathers, four in the afternoon would never
have been thought an evening hour in the sense implied by supper,)--the Roman gourmands and
bons vivants continued through the very last ages of Rome to take their coena, when more than
usually sumptuous, at noon. This, indeed, all people did occasionally, just as we sometimes
give a dinner even now so early as four, P.M., under the name of a dejeuner à la fourchette.
Those who took their coena so early as this, were said de die coenare--to begin dining from
high day. Just as the line in Horace--"Ut jugulent homines surgunt de nocte latrones," does
not mean that the robbers rise when others are going to bed, viz., at nightfall, but at midnight.
For, says one of the three best scholars of this earth, de die, de nocte, mean from that hour
which was most fully, most intensely day or night, viz., the centre, the meridian. This one
fact is surely a clencher as to the question whether coena meant dinner or supper.]

