Susan put the case in final form. We sent the papers to California for Callahan's signature,
then we filed the case, and things got back to normal with me. It was a great relief not to
have the strain on me night and day. That's the trouble with an important case. You live with
it too much.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was seven months before I got the first Office Action in the Case. I read the first few
paragraphs and they were quite normal. They rejected the Case in the usual manner by citing
prior patents that had nothing to do with my application. This kind of thing was just part
of the game of prosecution in which the Patent Examiner makes rejections because that is what
he is supposed to do no matter what the invention; they don't have to make much sense. But
then came a paragraph that went way beyond good sense and proper rejection technique. It said:

The specification is objected to as containing large portions that are merely laudatory. See
Ex parte Grieg, 181 OG 266, and Ex parte Wellington 113 OG 2218. These portions are superfluous
and should be deleted, Ex parte Ball, 1902 CD 326. The specification is unnecessarily prolix
throughout and contains an unduly large number of embodiments, Ex parte Blakemen, 98 OG 791.
Shortening is required.

I didn't wait. I grabbed the file of the Case and almost ran over to the Patent Office to straighten
out the Examiner on a few things. As usual, Herbert Krome was the Examiner, so I charged up
to his desk and immediately began explaining to him the importance of the Tearproof Paper Case.
He seemed to pay no attention to me, but I knew him; he was listening. When I finally paused
to let him say something, he looked at me quizzically and said, "Mr. Saddle, aren't you aware
of the Notice of October 11, 1955?"

I looked at him blankly and said, "What's that?"

"It says that interviews with Examiners are not to be held on Fridays except in exceptional
circumstances."

I gulped and said, "Is today Friday?"

He pushed his desk calendar toward me. It was Friday all right, and the thirteenth at that.
I was too embarrassed to speak, and I got up and began to walk out. Mr. Krome called after
me. "This must be an important case, Mr. Saddle. I'll expect to see you the first thing Monday."
I nodded, and left.

By Monday, my embarrassment had not diminished. I had really done an unheard-of thing in patent
prosecution. In patent prosecution, the patent attorney has six months to respond to an Office
Action. Since attorneys carry a docket of cases adapted to fill all their time, an attorney
in most instances requires the full six months to respond to an outstanding Office Action.
Industrious attorneys with relatively light dockets might respond in five months' time. This
may also happen when the attorney is trying to get a little ahead so he can go on a vacation.
There are rare instances of record when an attorney had taken some action in three or four
months. But here, in the Tearproof Paper Case, I had actually gone for an interview on the
very first day. I couldn't possibly go back on the following Monday; my pride would not allow
me. I waited until Tuesday.

By that time I had gone over the entire rejection and planned my complete response to the Examiner.
I sat down with Mr. Krome on Tuesday morning and talked steadily for fifteen minutes before
I realized he was watching me instead of paying attention to the case. I said, "What's the matter."

He said wonderingly, "I've never seen you like this before. You are acting almost as unreasonably
as an inventor. You don't even want to hear what I have to say about this case. You should
relax, Mr. Saddle. You are here as an advocate, not as a midwife."

"I don't think that's very funny, Mr. Krome," I proceeded to explain the high merit of the
case, and he seemed to listen then. Before I left he promised to give the case careful consideration.
This was all he ever promised, so I thanked him and went back to my office. I filed my amendment
in the case the next day. It was eight months before I got the next Office Action.

       *       *       *

Callahan returned in six months and immediately opened a project on the Tearproof Paper. The
two of us sat down together to determine the best way to handle the research.

I said, "Henry, we have already drawn up a complete research program. All we have to do is
follow it."

"We have?" Callahan was surprised.

"Sure." And I laid out in front of him a copy of our patent application, and riffled through
its pages. "All we have to do is go through all the examples here to make certain they all
work. If they do, the program will be complete, except for the product itself and commercial
production. Our patent application will make the best research guide we could get."

"Why certainly," said Callahan. "We have already spent a great deal of time working out all
kinds of substitute and equivalent reactions. It's all here. Good. I'll set it up."

Callahan began distributing the work to various groups, and I went back to my office. Every
Friday afternoon thereafter I went out to the laboratories to see how things were coming along.
They came along well. From the beginning the actual results reached by the research teams matched
the predictions we had made in our patent application. At the Friday afternoon meetings Callahan
and I got into the habit of tossing pleased and knowing glances at each other as the streams
of data continued to confirm our work. Several months rolled happily by. Then came a letter
from the Lafe Rude Consultants, Inc., up in Boston. The letter said that their people understood
that the Marchare Laboratories had under development a remarkably strong paper, and they would
be very much interested in discussing licensing possibilities with us. I grabbed the letter
and stormed into Mr. Spardleton's office.

"Just read this," I almost yelled as I handed him the letter. "This is the outfit that hired
Callahan's technician. Now they know all about the Tearproof Paper. That technician has told
them everything. I think we ought to sue them--inducing disclosure of trade secrets, or something."
I added a great deal more as Mr. Spardleton finished the letter and sat holding it looking
up at me as I paced back and forth in front of his desk. As I walked and talked, I finally
became conscious of the fact that Mr. Spardleton was waiting for me to finish; I could tell
by the expression on his face. I pulled up in front of him and fell quiet.

He said, "Don't you feel it is significant that this letter was sent to us, lawyers for Marchare
Laboratories, rather than direct to the Laboratories?"

I thought about it, and he continued, "Furthermore, as I understand it, the Lafe Rude people
have a good reputation."

That was right, too, and I saw what he was driving at. People of good reputation don't try
to pull a fast one by immediately alerting the lawyers for the other side. In fact, when I
stopped to think about it, I could see that they were bending over backwards to be careful
in this situation.

Mr. Spardleton said, as he handed back the letter, "I suggest you clear with Dr. Marchare,
and then make arrangements to talk to these people and see if you can negotiate some kind of
profitable license. Marchare is pretty fully committed right now, and I don't think he has
time to exploit this paper, even if it turns out to amount to something."

I looked at him, aghast that he should still be doubtful of the paper at this late stage of
the game. He saw my look and said, "Oops, I mean this milestone in paper technology once it
is announced to the world."

That seemed better, more to the point. I called Dr. Marchare and found that Mr. Spardleton
was right, as usual. Dr. Marchare would welcome a beneficial licensing arrangement. I then
called the Rude Associates on the phone; it seemed more expeditious than writing. I set up
a meeting date as soon as possible, one week away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day before I left for Boston I checked in with Callahan to make certain all of our data
were correct. We went over every aspect of the Tearproof Paper Case. I picked out a dozen good
samples of the paper of varying composition and thickness and put them in my briefcase along
with a copy of the patent application. I had decided that I might even show them a copy of
the application if it might help show what a marvelous discovery we had made. Callahan and
I shook hands solemnly, and he wished me the best of luck. I went back to my office for a final
quick check, got interested in Zabell's book, and went home without my briefcase. There was
no harm done. My plane did not leave until ten in the morning and I had planned to go back
to the office anyway. I said good-by to Susan and Mr. Spardleton, retrieved my briefcase from
over by the radiator where Susan had put it the night before, and caught the plane.

It was a cold damp day, and the threat of rain was in the air. In Boston I caught a cab for
the Massachusetts Avenue laboratories of Rude Associates. Dr. Rude himself was at the meeting,
along with half a dozen of his associates. Dr. Rude was a small man, dapper, totally unlike
a research chemist, and his speech and manner were as impeccable as his dress. Only his hands
were a giveaway; they were stained with yellow and black stains that looked completely out
of place on the man. Dr. Rude opened the meeting with an explanation concerning the technician
he had hired from the Marchare Laboratories two years earlier. "Just a week ago," said Dr.
Rude, "we put him on a problem of paper chemistry. He told us that the properties we sought--and
more--had already been found by your laboratory. He said no more, and we would not have allowed
him to say any more, except that you were the patent lawyer who was working on the case. That
is all we know about it. We hope you have something of mutual interest, but we don't know any
more than what I have told you."

I said, "Thank you, Dr. Rude. I understand how it was. I assure you it never crossed our minds
down in Washington that anything could have been out of line in any manner whatsoever."

The assembled group smiled, and I smiled back, and we all felt friendly with one another. Dr.
Rude cleared his throat and said, "Well, is there anything you can tell us about this tearpr
... about a paper having some of these very interesting properties?"

I said, "There is a great deal I can tell you about the paper we have, but suppose I let you
see some specimens before I say anything. There's nothing like the actual goods themselves
to do most of the talking."

We all laughed as I took half a dozen twelve-by-twelve hand sheets out of my briefcase and
passed them around the table. I watched the chemists finger the sheets, savoring their soft
coolness, and I heard the whispered comments, "good hand," "excellent softness," "fine color,"
and a few others. Dr. Rude said, "Are these 'breaking samples', Mr. Saddle? Do you mind if
we tear them?"

Well, you can see that this was the question I was waiting for. I sat back and allowed a slight
smile to play over my face. I said, "Oh no, gentlemen. Go ahead and tear them."

I saw several of the people take the sheets between their thumbs and forefingers, and gently
pull. I saw the sheets tighten momentarily, and then--as if the sheets were no more than ordinary
cleansing tissue--I saw the fibers pull apart as each man easily tore the sheet in half.

I felt the blood drain from my face, and it seemed to me that my pounding heart must have been
visible right through my clothes. I swallowed and tried to say something, although I had no
clear idea of what I was going to say. Words would not come. I leaned over and took another
sheet from my briefcase and tugged at it. It tore in half with practically no effort. I took
another, same results, and still another. I dimly realized that all the people at the meeting
were staring at me, but I wasn't concerned. I knew something must be wrong with all the specimens;
possibly I had placed regular cleaning tissues in my briefcase, or maybe Susan ... but even
as I thought it I knew such a mistake was impossible.

I reached over and tried tearing one of the sheets I had passed out to the others. It tore
into quarters as easily as it had torn into halves. That finished me. I leaned back and looked
around at the silent group and wondered what Mr. Spardleton would have said at a time like
that. I started to smile and discovered that my original smile was still frozen on my face.
I stood up and began retrieving the torn papers; they passed them back to me without saying
anything. I replaced them in my briefcase, closed it, said, "Gentlemen, Christmas falls on
Friday this year," and walked out.

       *       *       *

It was raining outside, but I scarcely noticed. I hailed a cab to the Logan Airport, changed
my reservations to an earlier plane, and returned to Washington. It was a slow trip. The planes
were stacked up in the rain at the Washington International Airport, but I did not notice the
passage of time. I was too stunned to think clearly, but I kept trying. I got quite wet in
Washington, but I was in a hurry to see Mr. Spardleton and I did not bother to change my clothes.

I burst into his office. He looked up and said, "Well, I didn't expect to see you until tomorrow.
How did...?" He saw my face.

I plopped my briefcase on his desk and pulled out all the specimens and dumped them in front
of him. I said, "Just look at these. This 'Tearproof Paper' has deteriorated. These specimens
are useless. Right in front of all the Rude chemists, they go bad. Most of them are new ones,
too. How can this be possible? Just look at them."

Mr. Spardleton picked up one of the sheets, rubbed it, and then tugged at it gently to tear
it. It did not tear. He pulled harder, and then harder, and it did not tear. I stared at him
in disbelief and said, "Oh, Mr. Spardleton, this is no time to play games with me."

I took one of the sheets and yanked it, and almost cut my fingers. I bent over and put my hands
on my knees to get better leverage just as I had the very first time, but the sheet would not
tear. I threw it on the desk and tried another with the same results. One after another I ran
through them all while Mr. Spardleton sat back and watched me. I was wild-eyed when I finished.

Mr. Spardleton said, "Mr. Saddle, would you mind telling me what has happened?"

I pulled up a chair, groped for my voice, and finally got the story out. He looked at me strangely,
tried to tear another of those miserable little sheets, and said, "Mr. Saddle, do you feel
all right?"

In Boston I had been completely deflated and bewildered, but now I was mad. I grabbed up the
phone and called Callahan. I had barely started to pour out the story when he said, "I'm glad
you called, Carl. We seem to have run into something on this paper thing. Looks bad. Can you
come out?"

"Be right there." I hung up.

