I.

              New York
    WORTHINGTON CO., 747 BROADWAY
                1890

DEDICATION.

DEAR MR. AUGUSTIN DALY,

May I write your name on the dedication page of this new edition of an old and pleasant book
in token of our common interest in the people and the periods of which it treats, and as a
small proof of our friendship?

      Sincerely yours,
    JUSTIN HUNTLY M'CARTHY.

LONDON, July, 1890.

CONTENTS.

    PREFACE TO THE PRESENT EDITION                               p. xi
    PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION                                p. xxv
    PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION                                 p. xxix

    GEORGE VILLIERS, SECOND DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM.

  Signs of the Restoration.--Samuel Pepys in his Glory.--A Royal
      Company.--Pepys 'ready to Weep.'--The Playmate of Charles
      II.--George Villiers's Inheritance.--Two Gallant Young
      Noblemen.--The Brave Francis Villiers.--After the Battle of
      Worcester.--Disguising the King.--Villiers in Hiding.--He
      appears as a Mountebank.--Buckingham's Habits.--A Daring
      Adventure.--Cromwell's Saintly Daughter.--Villiers and the
      Rabbi.--The Buckingham Pictures and Estates.--York
      House.--Villiers returns to England.--Poor Mary
      Fairfax.--Villiers in the Tower.--Abraham Cowley, the
      Poet.--The Greatest Ornament of Whitehall.--Buckingham's Wit
      and Beauty.--Flecknoe's Opinion of Him.--His Duel with the Earl
      of Shrewsbury.--Villiers as a Poet.--As a Dramatist.--A Fearful
      Censure!--Villiers's Influence in Parliament.--A Scene in the
      Lords.--The Duke of Ormond in Danger.--Colonel Blood's
      Outrages.--Wallingford House and Ham House.--'Madame
      Ellen.'--The Cabal.--Villiers again in the Tower.--A
      Change.--The Duke of York's Theatre.--Buckingham and the
      Princess of Orange.--His last Hours.--His Religion.--Death of
      Villiers.--The Duchess of Buckingham.                      p. 1

    COUNT DE GRAMMONT, ST. EVREMOND, AND LORD ROCHESTER.

  De Grammont's Choice.--His Influence with Turenne.--The Church or
      the Army?--An Adventure at Lyons.--A brilliant Idea.--De
      Grammont's Generosity.--A Horse 'for the
      Cards.'--Knight-Cicisbeism.--De Grammont's first Love.--His
      Witty Attacks on Mazarin.--Anne Lucie de la Mothe
      Houdancourt.--Beset with Snares.--De Grammont's Visits to
      England.--Charles II.--The Court of Charles II.--Introduction
      of Country-dances.--Norman Peculiarities.--St. Evremond, the
      Handsome Norman.--The most Beautiful Woman in Europe.--Hortense
      Mancini's Adventures.--Madame Mazarin's House at
      Chelsea.--Anecdote of Lord Dorset.--Lord Rochester in his
      Zenith.--His Courage and Wit--Rochester's Pranks in the
      City.--Credulity, Past and Present--'Dr. Bendo,' and La Belle
      Jennings.--La Triste Heritière.--Elizabeth, Countess of
      Rochester.--Retribution and Reformation.--Conversion.--Beaux
      without Wit.--Little Jermyn.--An Incomparable Beauty.--Anthony
      Hamilton, De Grammont's Biographer.--The Three Courts.--'La
      Belle Hamilton.'--Sir Peter Lely's Portrait of her.--The
      Household Deity of Whitehall.--Who shall have the Calèche?--A
      Chaplain in Livery.--De Grammont's Last Hours.--What might he
      not have been?                                             p. 41

    BEAU FIELDING.

  On Wits and Beaux.--Scotland Yard in Charles II.'s day.--Orlando of
      'The Tatler.'--Beau Fielding, Justice of the Peace.--Adonis in
      Search of a Wife.--The Sham Widow.--Ways and Means.--Barbara
      Villiers, Lady Castlemaine.--Quarrels with the King.--The
      Beau's Second Marriage.--The Last Days of Fops and Beaux.  p. 80

    OF CERTAIN CLUBS AND CLUB-WITS UNDER ANNE.

  The Origin of Clubs.--The Establishment of Coffee-houses.--The
      October Club.--The Beef-steak Club.--Of certain other
      Clubs.--The Kit-kat Club.--The Romance of the Bowl.--The Toasts
      of the Kit-kat.--The Members of the Kit-kat.--A good Wit, and a
      bad Architect.--'Well-natured Garth.'--The Poets of the
      Kit-kat.--Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax.--Chancellor
      Somers.--Charles Sackville, Lord Dorset.--Less celebrated
      Wits.                                                      p. 91

    WILLIAM CONGREVE.

  When and where was he born?--The Middle Temple.--Congreve finds his
      Vocation.--Verses to Queen Mary.--The Tennis-court
      Theatre.--Congreve abandons the Drama.--Jeremy Collier.--The
      Immorality of the Stage.--Very improper Things.--Congreve's
      Writings.--Jeremy's 'Short Views.'--Rival Theatres.--Dryden's
      Funeral.--A Tub-Preacher.--Horoscopic Predictions.--Dryden's
      Solicitude for his Son.--Congreve's Ambition.--Anecdote of
      Voltaire and Congreve.--The Profession of Mæcenas.--Congreve's
      Private Life.--'Malbrook's' Daughter.--Congreve's Death and
      Burial.                                                    p. 106

    BEAU NASH.

  The King of Bath.--Nash at Oxford.--'My Boy Dick.'--Offers of
      Knighthood.--Doing Penance at York.--Days of Folly.--A very
      Romantic Story.--Sickness and Civilization.--Nash descends upon
      Bath.--Nash's Chef-d'oeuvre.--The Ball.--Improvements in the
      Pump-room, &c.--A Public Benefactor.--Life at Bath in Nash's
      time.--A Compact with the Duke of Beaufort.--Gaming at
      Bath.--Anecdotes of Nash.--'Miss Sylvia.'--A Generous
      Act.--Nash's Sun setting.--A Panegyric.--Nash's Funeral.--His
      Characteristics.                                           p. 127

    PHILIP, DUKE OF WHARTON.

  Wharton's Ancestors.--His Early Years.--Marriage at
      Sixteen.--Wharton takes leave of his Tutor.--The Young Marquis
      and the Old Pretender.--Frolics at Paris.--Zeal for the Orange
      Cause.--A Jacobite Hero.--The Trial of Atterbury.--Wharton's
      Defence of the Bishop.--Hypocritical Signs of Penitence.--Sir
      Robert Walpole duped.--Very Trying.--The Duke of Wharton's
      'Whens.'--Military Glory at Gibraltar.--'Uncle
      Horace.'--Wharton to 'Uncle Horace.'--The Duke's
      Impudence.--High Treason.--Wharton's Ready Wit.--Last
      Extremities.--Sad Days in Paris.--His Last Journey to
      Spain.--His Death in a Bernardine Convent.                 p. 148

    LORD HERVEY.

  George II. arriving from Hanover.--His Meeting with the
      Queen.--Lady Suffolk.--Queen Caroline.--Sir Robert
      Walpole.--Lord Hervey.--A Set of Fine Gentlemen.--An Eccentric
      Race.--Carr, Lord Hervey.--A Fragile Boy.--Description of
      George II.'s Family.--Anne Brett.--A Bitter Cup.--The Darling
      of the Family.--Evenings at St. James's.--Frederick, Prince of
      Wales.--Amelia Sophia Walmoden.--Poor Queen Caroline!--Nocturnal
      Diversions of Maids of Honour.--Neighbour George's Orange
      Chest.--Mary Lepel, Lady Hervey.--Rivalry.--Hervey's Intimacy
      with Lady Mary.--Relaxations of the Royal Household.--Bacon's
      Opinion of Twickenham.--A Visit to Pope's Villa.--The Little
      Nightingale.--The Essence of Small Talk.--Hervey's Affectation
      and Effeminacy.--Pope's Quarrel with Hervey and Lady
      Mary.--Hervey's Duel with Pulteney.--'The Death of Lord Hervey:
      a Drama.'--Queen Caroline's last Drawing-room.--Her Illness and
      Agony.--A Painful Scene.--The Truth discovered.--The Queen's
      Dying Bequests.--The King's Temper.--Archbishop Potter is sent
      for.--The Duty of Reconciliation.--The Death of Queen
      Caroline.--A Change in Hervey's Life.--Lord Hervey's
      Death.--Want of Christianity.--Memoirs of his Own Time.    p. 170

    PHILIP DORMER STANHOPE, FOURTH EARL OF CHESTERFIELD.

  The King of Table Wits.--Early Years.--Hervey's Description of his
      Person.--Resolutions and Pursuits.--Study of Oratory.--The
      Duties of an Ambassador.--King George II.'s Opinion of his
      Chroniclers.--Life in the Country.--Melusina, Countess of
      Walsingham.--George II. and his Father's Will.--Dissolving
      Views.--Madame du Bouchet.--The Broad-Bottomed
      Administration.--Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland in Time of
      Peril.--Reformation of the Calendar.--Chesterfield
      House.--Exclusiveness.--Recommending 'Johnson's
      Dictionary.'--'Old Samuel,' to Chesterfield.--Defensive
      Pride.--The Glass of Fashion.--Lord Scarborough's Friendship
      for Chesterfield.--The Death of Chesterfield's Son.--His
      Interest in his Grandsons.--'I must go and Rehearse my
      Funeral.'--Chesterfield's Will.--What is a Friend?--Les
      Manières Nobles.--Letters to his Son.                      p. 210

    THE ABBE SCARRON.

  An Eastern Allegory.--Who comes Here?--A Mad Freak and its
      Consequences.--Making an Abbé of him.--The May-Fair of
      Paris.--Scarron's Lament to Pellisson.--The Office of the
      Queen's Patient.--'Give me a Simple Benefice.'--Scarron's
      Description of Himself.--Improvidence and Servility.--The
      Society at Scarron's.--The Witty Conversation.--Francoise
      D'Aubigné's Début.--The Sad Story of La Belle
      Indienne.--Matrimonial Considerations.--'Scarron's Wife will
      live for ever.'--Petits Soupers.--Scarron's last Moments.--A
      Lesson for Gay and Grave.                                  p. 235

    FRANCOIS DUC DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULT AND THE DUC DE SAINT-SIMON.

  Rank and Good Breeding.--The Hôtel de Rochefoucault.--Racine and
      his Plays.--La Rochefoucault's Wit and Sensibility.--Saint-Simon's
      Youth.--Looking out for a Wife.--Saint-Simon's Court Life.--The
      History of Louise de la Vallière.--A mean Act of Louis
      Quatorze.--All has passed away.--Saint-Simon's Memoirs of His
      Own Time.                                                  p. 253

SUBJECTS OF THE ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME I.

                                                                   PAGE

WHARTON'S ROGUISH PRESENT                              (Frontispiece)

VILLIERS IN DISGUISE--THE MEETING WITH HIS SISTER                     14

DE GRAMMONT'S MEETING WITH LA BELLE HAMILTON                          74

BEAU FIELDING AND THE SHAM WIDOW                                      85

A SCENE BEFORE KENSINGTON PALACE--GEORGE II. AND QUEEN CAROLINE      172

POPE AT HIS VILLA--DISTINGUISHED VISITORS                            194

A ROYAL ROBBER                                                       217

DR. JOHNSON AT LORD CHESTERFIELD'S                                   226

SCARRON AND THE WITS--FIRST APPEARANCE OF LA BELLE INDIENNE          247

PREFACE.

When Grace and Philip Wharton found that they had pleased the world with their "Queens of Society,"
they very sensibly resolved to follow up their success with a companion work. Their first book
had been all about women; the second book should be all about men. Accordingly they set to
work selecting certain types that pleased them; they wrote a fresh collection of pleasant essays
and presented the reading public with "Wits and Beaux of Society". The one book is as good
as the other; there is not a pin to choose between them. There is the same bright easy, gossiping
style, the same pleasing rapidity. There is nothing tedious, nothing dull anywhere. They do
not profess to have anything to do with the graver processes of history--these entertaining
volumes; they seek rather to amuse than to instruct, and they fulfil their purpose excellently.
There is instruction in them, but it comes in by the way; one is conscious of being entertained,
and it is only after the entertainment is over that one finds that a fair amount of information
has been thrown in to boot. The Whartons have but old tales to tell, but they tell them very
well, and that is the first part of their business.

Looking over these articles is like looking over the list of a good club. Men are companionable
creatures; they love to get together and gossip. It is maintained, and with reason, that they
are fonder of their own society than women are. Men delight to breakfast together, to take
luncheon together, to dine together, to sup together. They rejoice in clubs devoted exclusively
to their service, as much taboo to women as a trappist monastery. Women are not quite so clannish.
There are not very many women's clubs in the world; it is not certain that those which do exist
are very brilliant or very entertaining. Women seldom give supper parties, "all by themselves
they" after the fashion of that "grande dame de par le monde" of whom we have spoken elsewhere.
A woman's dinner-party may succeed now and then by way of a joke, but it is a joke that is
not often repeated. Have we not lately seen how an institution with a graceful English name,
started in London for women and women only, has just so far relaxed its rigid rule as to allow
men upon its premises between certain hours, and this relaxation we are told has been conceded
in consequence of the demand of numerous ladies. Well, well, if men can on the whole get on
better without the society of women than women can without the society of men it is no doubt
because they are rougher creatures, moulded of a coarser clay, and are more entertained by
eating and drinking, smoking and the telling of tales than women are.

If all the men whom the Whartons labelled as wits and beaux of society could be gathered together
they would make a most excellent club in the sense in which a club was understood in the last
century. Johnson thought that he had praised a man highly when he called him a clubbable man,
and so he had for those days which dreamed not of vast caravanserai calling themselves clubs
and having thousands of members on their roll, the majority of whom do not know more than perhaps
ten of their fellow members from Adam. In the sense that Dr. Johnson meant, all these wits
and beaux whom our Whartons have gathered together were eminently clubbable. If some such necromancer
could come to us as he who in Tourguenieff's story conjures up the shade of Julius Cæsar; and
if in an obliging way he could make these wits and beaux greet us: if such a spiritualistic
society as that described by Mr. Stockton in one of his diverting stories could materialise
them all for our benefit: then one might count with confidence upon some very delightful company
and some very delightful talk. For the people whom the Whartons have been good enough to group
together are people of the most fascinating variety. They have wit in common and goodfellowship,
they were famous entertainers in their time; they add to the gaiety of nations still. The Whartons
have given what would in America be called a "Stag Party". If we join it we shall find much
entertainment thereat.

Do people read Theodore Hook much nowadays? Does the generation which loves to follow the trail
with Allan Quatermain, and to ride with a Splendid Spur, does it call at all for the humours
of the days of the Regency? Do those who have laughed over "The Wrong Box," ever laugh over
Jack Brag? Do the students of Mr. Rudyard Kipling know anything of "Gilbert Gurney?" Somebody
started the theory some time ago, that this was not a laughter-loving generation, that it lacked
high spirits. It has been maintained that if a writer appeared now, with the rollicking good
spirits, and reckless abandon of a Lever, he would scarcely win a warm welcome. We may be permitted
to doubt this conclusion; we are as fond of laughter as ever, as ready to laugh if somebody
will set us going. Mr. Stevenson prefers of late to be thought grim in his fiction, but he
has set the sides shaking, both over that "Wrong Box" which we spoke of, and in earlier days.
We are ready to laugh with Stockton from overseas, with our own Anstey, with anybody who has
the heart to be merry, and the wit to make his mirth communicable. But, it may be doubted if
we read our Lever quite as much as a wise doctor, who happened also to be a wise man of letters,
would recommend. And we may well fancy that such a doctor dealing with a patient for whom laughter
was salutary--as for whom is it not salutary--would exhibit Theodore Hook in rather large doses.

Undoubtedly the fun is a little old fashioned, but it is none the worse for that. Those who
share Mr. Hardcastle's tastes for old wine and old books will not like Theodore Hook any the
less, because he does not happen to be at all "Fin de Siècle". He is like Berowne in the comedy,
the merriest man--perhaps not always within the limits of becoming mirth--to spend an hour's
talk withal. There is no better key to the age in which Hook glittered, than Hook's own stories.
The London of that day--the London which is as dead and gone as Nineveh or Karnak or Troy--lives
with extraordinary freshness in Theodore Hook's pages. And how entertaining those pages are.
It is not always the greatest writers who are the most mirth provoking, but how much we owe
to them. The man must have no mirth in him if he fail to be tickled by the best of Labiche's
comedies, aye and the worst too, if such a term can be applied to any of the enchanting series;
if he refuse to unbend over "A Day's Journey and a Life's Romance," if he cannot let himself
go and enjoy himself over Gilbert Gurney's river adventure. If the revival of the Whartons'
book were to serve no other purpose than to send some laughter loving souls to the heady well-spring
of Theodore Hook's merriment, it would have done the mirthful a good turn and deserved well
of its country.

There is scarcely a queerer, or scarcely a more pathetic figure in the world than that of Beau
Brummell. He seems to belong to ancient history, he and his titanic foppishness and his smart
clothes and his smart sayings. Yet is it but a little while since the last of his adorers,
the most devoted of his disciples passed away from the earth. Over in Paris there lingered
till the past year a certain man of letters who was very brilliant and very poor and very eccentric.
So long as people study French literature, and care to investigate the amount of high artistic
workmanship which goes into even its minor productions, so long the name of Barbey D'Aurevilly
will have its niche--not a very large one, it is true--in the temple. The author of that strange
and beautiful story "Le Chevalier des Touches," was a great devotee of Brummell's. He was himself
the "last of the dandies". All the money he had--and he had very little of it--he spent in
dandification. But he never moved with the times. His foppishness was the foppishness of his
youth, and to the last he wandered through Paris clad in the splendour of the days when young
men were "lions," and when the quarrel between classicism and romanticism was vital. He wrote
a book about Beau Brummell and a very curious little book it is, with its odd earnest defence
of dandyism, with its courageous championship of the arts which men of letters so largely affect
to despise.

Poor Beau Brummell. After having played his small part on life's stage, his thin shade still
occasionally wanders across the boards of the theatre. Blanchard Jerrold wrote a play upon
him, which was acted at the Lyceum Theatre in 1859, when Emery played the title role. Jerrold's
play, which has for sub-title "The King of Calais," treats of that period in Brummell's life
in which he had retired across the channel to live upon black-mail and to drift into that Consulship
at Caen which he so queerly resigned, to end a poor madman, trying to shave his own peruke.
Jerrold's is a grim play; either it or a version on the same lines of Brummell's fall is being
played across the Atlantic at this very hour by Mr. Mansfield whose study of the final decay
and idiotcy of the famous beau is said to rival the impressiveness of his Mr. Hyde. Beau Brummell
is never likely to be quite forgotten. Folly often brings with it a kind of immortality. The
fool who fired the Temple of Ephesus has secured his place in history with Aristides and Themistocles;
the fop who gave a kind of epic dignity to neck-clothes, and who asked the famous "Who's your
fat friend?" question, is remembered as a figure of that age which includes the name of Sheridan
and the name of Burke.

Another and a no less famous Beau steps to salute us from the pages of the Whartons. Beau Nash
is an old friend of ours in fiction, an old friend in the drama. Our dear old Harrison Ainsworth
wrote a novel about him yesterday; to-day he figures in the pages of one of the most attractive
of Mr. Lewis Wingfield's attractive stories. He found his way on to the stage under the care
of Douglas Jerrold whose comedy of manners was acted at the Haymarket in the midsummer of 1834.
There is a charm about these Beaux, these odd blossoms of last century civilisation, the Brummells
and the Nashes and the Fieldings, so "high fantastical" in their bearing, such living examples
of the eternal verities contained in the clothes' philosophy of Herr Diogenes Teufelsdröckh
of Weissnichtwo. Their wigs were more important than their wit; the pattern of their waistcoats
more important than the composition of their hearts; all morals, all philosophy are absorbed
for them in the engrossing question of the fit of their breeches. D'Artois is of their kin,
French d'Artois who helped to ruin the Old Order and failed to re-create it as Charles the
Tenth, d'Artois whom Mercier describes as being poured into his faultlessly fitting breeches
by the careful and united efforts of no less than four valets de chambre. But the English dandies
were better than the Frenchman, for they did harm only to themselves, while he helped to ruin
his cause, his party, and his king.

As we turn the pages, we come to one name which immediately if whimsically suggests poetry.
The man was, like Touchstone's Audrey, not poetical and yet a great poet has been pleased to
address him, very much as Pindar might have addressed the Ancestral Hero of some mighty tyrant.

    Ah, George Bubb Dodington Lord Melcombe--no,
    Yours was the wrong way!--always understand,
    Supposing that permissibly you planned
    How statesmanship--your trade--in outward show
    Might figure as inspired by simple zeal
    For serving country, king, and commonweal,
    (Though service tire to death the body, teaze
    The soul from out an o'ertasked patriot-drudge)
    And yet should prove zeal's outward show agrees
    In all respects--right reason being judge--
    With inward care that while the statesman spends
    Body and soul thus freely for the sake
    Of public good, his private welfare take
    No harm by such devotedness.

Thus Robert Browning in Robert Browning's penultimate book, that "Parleyings with certain people
of importance in their day" which fell somewhat coldly upon all save Browning fanatics, and
which, when it seemed to show that the poet's hand had palsied, served only as the discordant
prelude to the swan song of "Asolando," the last and almost the greatest of his glories. Perhaps
only Browning would ever have thought of undertaking a poetical parley with Bubb Dodington.
Dodington is now largely, and not undeservedly forgotten. His dinners and his dresses, his
poems and his pamphlets, his plays and his passions--the wind has carried them all away. If
Pope had not nicknamed him Bubo, if Foote had not caricatured him in "The Patron," if Churchill
had not lampooned him in "The Rosciad," he would scarcely have earned in his own day the notoriety
which the publication of his "Diary" had in a manner preserved to later days. If he was hardly
worth a corner in the Whartons' picture-gallery he was certainly scarcely deserving of the
attention of Browning. Even his ineptitude was hardly important enough to have twenty pages
of Browning's genius wasted upon it, twenty pages ending with the sting about

                                     The scoff
    That greets your very name: folks see but one
    Fool more, as well as knave, in Dodington.

Dodington has been occasionally classed with Lord Hervey but the classification is scarcely
fair. With all his faults--and he had them in abundance--Lord Hervey was a better creature
than Bubb Dodington. If he was effeminate, he had convictions and could stand by them. If Pope
sneered at him as Sporus and called him a curd of asses' milk, he has left behind him some
of the most brilliant memoirs ever penned. If he had some faults in common with Dodington he
was endowed with virtues of which Dodington never dreamed.

The name of Lord Chesterfield is in the air just now. Within the last few months the curiosity
of the world has been stimulated and satisfied by the publication of some hitherto unknown
letters by Lord Chesterfield. The pleasure which the student of history has taken in this new
find is just dimmed at this moment by the death of Lord Carnarvon, whose care and scholarship
gave them to the worlds. They are indeed a precious possession. A very eminent French critic,
M. Brunetière, has inveighed lately with much justice against the passion for raking together
and bringing out all manner of unpublished writings. He complains, and complains with justice,
that while the existing classics of literature are left imperfectly edited, if not ignored,
the activity of students is devoted to burrowing out all manner of unimportant material, anything,
everything, so long as it has not been known beforehand to the world. The French critic protests
against the class of scholars who go into ecstacies over a newly discovered washing list of
Pascal or a bill from Racine's perruquier. The complaint tells against us as well on our side
of the Channel. We hear a great deal about newly discovered fragments by this great writer
and that great writer, which are of no value whatever, except that they happen to be new. But
no such stricture applies to the letters of Lord Chesterfield which the late Lord Carnarvon
so recently gave to the world. They are a valuable addition to our knowledge of the last century,
a valuable addition to our knowledge of the man who wrote them. And knowledge about Lord Chesterfield
is always welcome. Few of the famous figures of the last century have been more misunderstood
than he. The world is too ready to remember Johnson's biting letter; too ready to remember
the cruel caricatures of Lord Hervey. Even the famous letters have been taken too much at Johnson's
estimate, and Johnson's estimate was one-sided and unfair. A man would not learn the highest
life from the Chesterfield letters; they have little in common with the ethics of an A Kempis,
a Jean Paul Richter, or a John Stuart Mill. But they have their value in their way, and if
they contain some utterances so unutterably foolish as those in which Lord Chesterfield expressed
himself upon Greek literature, they contain some very excellent maxims for the management of
social life. Nobody could become a penny the worse for the study of Chesterfield; many might
become the better. They are not a whit more cynical than, indeed they are not so cynical as,
those letters of Thackeray's to young Brown, which with all their cleverness make us understand
what Mr. Henley means when in his "Views and Reviews" he describes him as a "writer of genius
who was innately and irredeemably a Philistine". The letters of Lord Chesterfield would not
do much to make a man a hero, but there is little in literature more unheroic than the letters
to Mr. Thomas Brown the younger.

It is curious to contrast the comparative enthusiasm with which the Whartons write about Horace
Walpole with the invective of Lord Macaulay. To the great historian Walpole was the most eccentric,
the most artificial, the most capricious of men, who played innumerable parts and over-acted
them all, a creature to whom whatever was little seemed great and whatever was great seemed
little. The Whartons over-praise Walpole where Lord Macaulay under-rates him; the truth lies
between the two. He was not in the least an estimable or an admirable figure, but he wrote
admirable, indeed incomparable letters to which the world is indebted beyond expression. If
we can almost say that we know the London of the last century as well as the London of to-day
it is largely to Horace Walpole's letters that our knowledge is due. They can hardly be over-praised,
they can hardly be too often read by the lover of last century London. Horace Walpole affected
to despise men of letters. It is his punishment that his fame depends upon his letters, those
letters which, though their writer was all unaware of it, are genuine literature, and almost
of the best.

We could linger over almost every page of the Whartons' volumes, for every page is full of
pleasant suggestions. The name of George Villiers, second Duke of Buckingham brings up at once
a picture of perhaps the brilliantest and basest period in English history. It brings up too
memories of a fiction that is even dearer than history, of that wonderful romance of Dumas
the Elder's, which Mr. Louis Stevenson has placed among the half-dozen books that are dearest
to his heart, the "Vicomte de Bragelonne". Who that has ever followed, breathless and enraptured,
the final fortunes of that gallant quadrilateral of musketeers will forget the part which is
played by George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, in that magnificent prose epic? There is little
to be said for the real Villiers; he was a profligate and a scoundrel, and he did not show
very heroically in his quarrel with the fiery young Ossory. It was one thing to practically
murder Lord Shrewsbury; it was quite another thing to risk the wrath and the determined right
hand of the Duke of Ormond's son. But the Villiers of Dumas' fancy is a fairer figure and a
finer lover, and it is pleasant after reading the pages in which the authors of these essays
trace the career of Dryden's epitome to turn to those volumes of the great Frenchman, to read
the account of the duel with de Wardes and invoke a new blessing on the muse of fiction.

In some earlier volumes of the same great series we meet with yet another figure who has his
image in the Wharton picture gallery. It was here that many of us met Scarron for the first
time, and if we have got to know him better since, we still remember with a thrill of pleasure
that first encounter when in the society of the matchless Count de la Fere and the marvellous
Aramis we made our bow in company with the young Raoul to the crippled wit and his illustrious
companions. The Whartons write brightly about Scarron, but their best merit to my mind is that
they at once prompt a desire to go to that corner of the bookshelf where the eleven volumes
of the adventures of the immortal musketeers repose, and taking down the first volume of "Vingt
Ans Après" seek for the twenty-third chapter, where Scarron receives society in his residence
in the Rue des Tournelles. There Scudery twirls his moustaches and trails his enormous rapier
and the Coadjutor exhibits his silken "Fronde". There the velvet eyes of Mademoiselle d'Aubigné
smile and the beauty of Madame de Chevreuse delights, and all the company make fun of Mazarin
and recite the verses of Voiture.

There are others of these wits and beaux with whom we might like to linger; but our space is
running short; it is time to say good-bye. Congreve the dramatist and gentleman, Rochefoucault
the wit, Saint-Simon the king of memoir-writers, Rochester and St. Evremond and de Grammont,
Selwyn and Sydney Smith and Sheridan each in turn appeals to us to tarry a little longer. But
it is time to say good-bye to these shadows of the past with whom we have spent some pleasant
hours. It is their duty now to offer some pleasant hours to others.

    JUSTIN HUNTLY M'CARTHY.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.

In revising this Publication, it has scarcely been found necessary to recall a single opinion
relative to the subject of the Work. The general impressions of characters adopted by the Authors
have received little modification from any remarks elicited by the appearance of 'The Wits
and Beaux of Society.'

It is scarcely to be expected that even our descendants will know much more of the Wits and
Beaux of former days than we now do. The chests at Strawberry Hill are cleared of their contents;
Horace Walpole's latest letters are before us; Pepys and Evelyn have thoroughly dramatized
the days of Charles II.; Lord Hervey's Memoirs have laid bare the darkest secrets of the Court
in which he figures; voluminous memoirs of the less historic characters among the Wits and
Beaux have been published; still it is possible that some long-disregarded treasury of old
letters, like that in the Gallery at Wotton, may come to light. From that precious deposit
a housemaid--blotted for ever be her name from memory's page--was purloining sheets of yellow
paper, with antiquated writing on them, to light her fires with, when the late William Upcott
came to the rescue, and saved Evelyn's 'Diary' for a grateful world. It is just possible that
such a discovery may again be made, and that the doings of George Villiers, or the exile life
of Wharton, or the inmost thoughts of other Wits and Beaux may be made to appear in clearer
lights than heretofore; but it is much more likely that the popular opinions about these witty,
worthless men are substantially true.

All that has been collected, therefore, to form this work--and, as in the 'Queens of Society,'
every known source has been consulted--assumes a sterling value as being collected; and, should
hereafter fresh materials be disinterred from any old library closet in the homes of some one
descendant of our heroes, advantage will be gladly taken to improve, correct, and complete
the lives.

One thing must, in justice, be said: if they have been written freely, fearlessly, they have
been written without passion or prejudice. The writers, though not quite of the stamp of persons
who would never have 'dared to address' any of the subjects of their biography, 'save with
courtesy and obeisance,' have no wish to 'trample on the graves' of such very amusing personages
as the 'Wits and Beaux of Society.' They have even been lenient to their memory, hailing every
good trait gladly, and pointing out with no unsparing hand redeeming virtues; and it cannot
certainly be said, in this instance, that the good has been 'interred with the bones' of the
personages herein described, although the evil men do, 'will live after them.'

But whilst a biographer is bound to give the fair as well as the dark side of his subject,
he has still to remember that biography is a trust, and that it should not be an eulogium.
It is his duty to reflect that in many instances it must be regarded even as a warning.

The moral conclusions of these lives of 'Wits and Beaux' are, it is admitted, just: vice is
censured; folly rebuked; ungentlemanly conduct, even in a beau of the highest polish, exposed;
irreligion finds no toleration under gentle names--heartlessness no palliation from its being
the way of the world. There is here no separate code allowed for men who live in the world,
and for those who live out of it. The task of pourtraying such characters as the 'Wits and
Beaux of Society' is a responsible one, and does not involve the mere attempt to amuse, or
the mere desire to abuse, but requires truth and discrimination; as embracing just or unjust
views of such characters, it may do much harm or much good. Nevertheless, in spite of these
obvious considerations there do exist worthy persons, even in the present day, so unreasonable
as to take offence at the revival of old stories anent their defunct grandfathers, though those
very stories were circulated by accredited writers employed by the families themselves. Some
individuals are scandalized when a man who was habitually drunk, is called a drunkard; and
ears polite cannot bear the application of plain names to well-known delinquencies.

There is something foolish, but respectably foolish, in this wish to shut out light which has
been streaming for years over these old tombs and memories. The flowers that are cast on such
graves cannot, however, cause us to forget the corruption within and underneath. In consideration,
nevertheless, of a pardonable weakness, all expressions that can give pain, or which have been
said to give pain, have been, in this Second Edition, omitted; and whenever a mis-statement
has crept in, care has been taken to amend the error.

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION.

The success of the 'Queens of Society' will have pioneered the way for the 'Wits and Beaux:'
with whom, during the holiday time of their lives, these fair ladies were so greatly associated.
The 'Queens,' whether all wits or not, must have been the cause of wit in others; their influence
over dandyism is notorious: their power to make or mar a man of fashion, almost historical.
So far, a chronicle of the sayings and doings of the 'Wits' is worthy to serve as a pendant
to that of the 'Queens:' happy would it be for society if the annals of the former could more
closely resemble the biography of the latter. But it may not be so: men are subject to temptations,
to failures, to delinquencies, to calamities, of which women can scarcely dream, and which
they can only lament and pity.

Our 'Wits,' too--to separate them from the 'Beaux'--were men who often took an active part
in the stirring events of their day: they assumed to be statesmen, though, too frequently,
they were only politicians. They were brave and loyal: indeed, in the time of the Stuarts,
all the Wits were Cavaliers, as well as the Beaux. One hears of no repartee among Cromwell's
followers; no dash, no merriment, in Fairfax's staff; eloquence, indeed, but no wit in the
Parliamentarians; and, in truth, in the second Charles's time, the king might have headed the
lists of the Wits himself--such a capital man as his Majesty is known to have been for a wet
evening or a dull Sunday; such a famous teller of a story--such a perfect diner-out: no wonder
that in his reign we had George Villiers, second Duke of Buckingham of that family, 'mankind's
epitome,' who had every pretension to every accomplishment combined in himself. No wonder we
could attract De Grammont and Saint Evremond to our court; and own, somewhat to our discredit
be it allowed, Rochester and Beau Fielding. Every reign has had its wits, but those in Charles's
time were so numerous as to distinguish the era by an especial brilliancy. Nor let it be supposed
that these annals do not contain a moral application. They show how little the sparkling attributes
herein pourtrayed conferred happiness; how far more the rare, though certainly real touches
of genuine feeling and strong affection, which appear here and there even in the lives of the
most thoughtless 'Wits and Beaux,' elevate the character in youth, or console the spirit in
age. They prove how wise has been that change in society which now repudiates the 'Wit' as
a distinct class; and requires general intelligences as a compensation for lost repartees,
or long obsolete practical jokes.

'Men are not all evil:' so in the life of George Villiers, we find him kind-hearted, and free
from hypocrisy. His old servants--and the fact speaks in extenuation of one of our wildest
Wits and Beaux--loved him faithfully. De Grammont, we all own, has little to redeem him except
his good-nature: Rochester's latest days were almost hallowed by his penitence. Chesterfield
is saved by his kindness to the Irish, and his affection for his son. Horace Walpole had human
affections, though a most inhuman pen: and Wharton was famous for his good-humour.

The periods most abounding in the Wit and the Beau have, of course, been those most exempt
from wars, and rumours of wars. The Restoration; the early period of the Augustan age; the
commencement of the Hanoverian dynasty,--have all been enlivened by Wits and Beaux, who came
to light like mushrooms after a storm of rain, as soon as the political horizon was clear.
We have Congreve, who affected to be the Beau as well as the Wit; Lord Hervey, more of the
courtier than the Beau--a Wit by inheritance--a peer, assisted into a pre-eminent position
by royal preference, and consequent prestige; and all these men were the offspring of the particular
state of the times in which they figured: at earlier periods, they would have been deemed effeminate;
in later ones, absurd.

Then the scene shifts: intellect had marched forward gigantically: the world is grown exacting,
disputatious, critical, and such men as Horace Walpole and Brinsley Sheridan appear; the characteristics
of wit which adorned that age being well diluted by the feebler talents of Selwyn and Hook.

Of these, and others, 'table traits,' and other traits, are here given: brief chronicles of
their life's stage, over which a curtain has so long been dropped, are supplied carefully from
well established sources: it is with characters, not with literary history, that we deal; and
do our best to make the portraitures life-like, and to bring forward old memories, which, without
the stamp of antiquity, might be suffered to pass into obscurity.

Your Wit and your Beau, be he French or English, is no mediæval personage: the aristocracy
of the present day rank among his immediate descendants: he is a creature of a modern and an
artificial age; and with his career are mingled many features of civilized life, manners, habits,
and traces of family history which are still, it is believed, interesting to the majority of
English readers, as they have long been to

    GRACE and PHILIP WHARTON

October, 1860.

       *       *       *       *       *

         THE WITS AND BEAUX OF SOCIETY.

Samuel Pepys, the weather-glass of his time, hails the first glimpse of the Restoration of
Charles II. in his usual quaint terms and vulgar sycophancy. Then, with various parentheses,
inimitable in their way, Pepys carries on his narrative. He has left his father's 'cutting-room'
to take care of itself; and finds his cabin little, though his bed is convenient, but is certain,
as he rides at anchor with 'my lord,' in the ship, that the king 'must of necessity come in,'
and the vessel sails round and anchors in Lee Roads. 'To the castles about Deal, where our
fleet' (our fleet, the saucy son of a tailor!) 'lay and anchored; great was the shoot of guns
from the castles, and ships, and our answers.' Glorious Samuel! in his element, to be sure.

Then the wind grew high: he began to be 'dizzy, and squeamish;' nevertheless employed 'Lord's
Day' in looking through the lieutenant's glass at two good merchantmen, and the women in them;
'being pretty handsome;' then in the afternoon he first saw Calais, and was pleased, though
it was at a great distance. All eyes were looking across the Channel just then--for the king
was at Flushing; and, though the 'Fanatiques' still held their heads up high, and the Cavaliers
also talked high on the other side, the cause that Pepys was bound to, still gained ground.

Then 'they begin to speak freely of King Charles;' churches in the City, Samuel declares, were
setting up his arms; merchant-ships--more important in those days--were hanging out his colours.
He hears, too, how the Mercers' Company were making a statue of his gracious Majesty to set
up in the Exchange. Ah! Pepys's heart is merry: he has forty shillings (some shabby perquisite)
given him by Captain Cowes of the 'Paragon;' and 'my lord' in the evening 'falls to singing'
a song upon the Rump to the tune of the 'Blacksmith.'

The hopes of the Cavalier party are hourly increasing, and those of Pepys we may be sure also;
for Pim, the tailor, spends a morning in his cabin 'putting a great many ribbons to a sail.'
And the king is to be brought over suddenly, 'my lord' tells him: and indeed it looks like
it, for the sailors are drinking Charles's health in the streets of Deal, on their knees; 'which,
methinks,' says Pepys, 'is a little too much;' and 'methinks' so, worthy Master Pepys, also.

Then how the news of the Parliamentary vote of the king's declaration was received! Pepys becomes
eloquent. And the next day, on May 14, the Hague is seen plainly by us, 'my lord going up in
his night-gown into the cuddy.'

And then they land at the Hague; some 'nasty Dutchmen' come on board to offer their boats,
and get money, which Pepys does not like; and in time they find themselves in the Hague, 'a
most neat place in all respects:' salute the Queen of Bohemia and the Prince of Orange--afterwards
William III.--and find at their place of supper nothing but a 'sallet' and two or three bones
of mutton provided for ten of us, 'which was very strange. Nevertheless, on they sail, having
returned to the fleet, to Schevelling: and, on the 23rd of the month, go to meet the king;
who, 'on getting into the boat, did kiss my lord with much affection.' And 'extraordinary press
of good company,' and great mirth all day, announced the Restoration. Nevertheless Charles's
clothes had not been, till this time, Master Pepys is assured, worth forty shillings--and he,
as a connoisseur, was scandalized at the fact.

And now, before we proceed, let us ask who worthy Samuel Pepys was, that he should pass such
stringent comments on men and manners? His origin was lowly, although his family ancient; his
father having followed, until the Restoration, the calling of a tailor. Pepys, vulgar as he
was, had nevertheless received an university education; first entering Trinity College, Cambridge,
as a sizar. To our wonder we find him marrying furtively and independently; and his wife, at
fifteen, was glad with her husband to take up an abode in the house of a relative, Sir Edward
Montagu, afterwards Earl of Sandwich, the 'my lord' under whose shadow Samuel Pepys dwelt in
reverence. By this nobleman's influence Pepys for ever left the 'cutting-room;' he acted first
as secretary, (always as toad-eater, one would fancy), then became a clerk in the Admiralty;
and as such went, after the Restoration, to live in Seething Lane, in the parish of St. Olave,
Hart Street--and in St. Olave his mortal part was ultimately deposited.

So much for Pepys. The King and Duke of York changed the names of the ships. The 'Rumpers,'
as Pepys calls the Parliamentarians, had given one the name of the 'Nazeby;' and that was now
christened the 'Charles:' 'Richard' was changed into 'James.' The 'Speaker' into 'Mary,' the
'Lambert,' was 'Henrietta,' and so on. And well he might; for George Villiers had been his
playmate, classfellow, nay, bedfellow sometimes, in priests' holes; their names, their haunts,
their hearts, were all assimilated; and misfortune had bound them closely to each other. To
George Villiers let us now return; he is waiting for his royal master on the other side of
the Channel--in England. Let us trace one of the most romantic, and brilliant, and unsatisfactory
lives that has ever been written. The Admiralty now stands on the site of the mansion in which
he first saw the light. His father was George Villiers, the favourite of James I. and of Charles
I.; his mother, the Lady Katherine Manners, daughter and heiress of Francis, Earl of Rutland.
Scarcely was he a year old, when the assassination of his father, by Felton, threw the affairs
of his family into confusion. His mother, after the Duke of Buckingham's death, gave birth
to a son, Francis; who was subsequently, savagely killed by the Roundheads, near Kingston.
Then the Duchess of Buckingham very shortly married again, and uniting herself to Randolph
Macdonald, Earl of Antrim, became a rigid Catholic. She was therefore lost to her children,
or rather, they were lost to her; for King Charles I., who had promised to be a 'husband to
her, and a father to her children,' removed them from her charge, and educated them with the
royal princes.

The youthful peer soon gave indications of genius; and all that a careful education could do,
was directed to improve his natural capacity under private tutors. He went to Cambridge; and
thence, under the care of a preceptor named Aylesbury, travelled into France. He was accompanied
by his young, handsome, fine-spirited brother, Francis; and this was the sunshine of his life.
His father had indeed left him, as his biographer Brian Fairfax expresses it, 'the greatest
name in England; his mother, the greatest estate of any subject.' With this inheritance there
had also descended to him the wonderful beauty, the matchless grace, of his ill-fated father.
Great abilities, courage, fascination of manners, were also his; but he had not been endowed
with firmness of character, and was at once energetic and versatile. Even at this age, the
qualities which became his ruin were clearly discoverable.

George Villiers was recalled to England by the troubles which drove the king to Oxford, and
which converted that academical city into a garrison, its under-graduates into soldiers, its
ancient halls into barrack-rooms. Villiers was on this occasion entered at Christ Church: the
youth's best feelings were aroused, and his loyalty was engaged to one to whom his father owed
so much. He was now a young man of twenty-one years of age--able to act for himself; and he
went heart and soul into the cause of his sovereign. Never was there a gayer, a more prepossessing
Cavalier. He could charm even a Roundhead. The harsh and Presbyterian-minded Bishop Burnet,
has told us that 'he was a man of a noble presence; had a great liveliness of wit, and a peculiar
faculty of turning everything into ridicule, with bold figures and natural descriptions.' How
invaluable he must have been in the Common-rooms at Oxford, then turned into guard-rooms, his
eye upon some unlucky volunteer Don, who had put off his clerkly costume for a buff jacket,
and could not manage his drill. Irresistible as his exterior is declared to have been, the
original mind of Villiers was even far more influential. Whilst thus a gallant of the court
and camp, the young nobleman proved himself to be no less brave than witty. Juvenile as he
was, with a brother still younger, they fought on the royalist side at Lichfield, in the storming
of the Cathedral Close. For thus allowing their lives to be endangered, their mother blamed
Lord Gerard, one of the Duke's guardians; whilst the Parliament seized the pretext of confiscating
their estates, which were afterwards returned to them, on account of their being under age
at the time of confiscation. The youths were then placed under the care of the Earl of Northumberland,
by whose permission they travelled in France and Italy, where they appeared--their estates
having been restored--with princely magnificence. Nevertheless, on hearing of the imprisonment
of Charles I. in the Isle of Wight, the gallant youths returned to England and joined the army
under the Earl of Holland, who was defeated near Nonsuch, in Surrey.

A sad episode in the annals of these eventful times is presented in the fate of the handsome,
brave Francis Villiers. His murder, for one can call it by no other name, shows how keenly
the personal feelings of the Roundheads were engaged in this national quarrel. Under most circumstances,
Englishmen would have spared the youth, and respected the gallantry of the free young soldier,
who, planting himself against an oak-tree which grew in the road, refused to ask for quarter,
but defended himself against several assailants. But the name of Villiers was hateful in Puritan
ears. 'Hew them down, root and branch!' was the sentiment that actuated the soldiery. His very
loveliness exasperated their vengeance. At last, 'with nine wounds on his beautiful face and
body,' says Fairfax, 'he was slain.' 'The oak-tree,' writes the devoted servant, 'is his monument,'
and the letters of F. V. were cut in it in his day. His body was conveyed by water to York
House, and was entombed with that of his father, in the Chapel of Henry VII.

His brother fled towards St. Neot's, where he encountered a strange kind of peril. Tobias Rustat
attended him; and was with him in the rising in Kent for King Charles I., wherein the Duke
was engaged; and they, being put to the flight, the Duke's helmet, by a brush under a tree,
was turned upon his back, and tied so fast with a string under his throat, 'that without the
present help of T. R.,' writes Fairfax, 'it had undoubtedly choked him, as I have credibly
heard.'[2]

Whilst at St. Neot's, the house in which Villiers had taken refuge was surrounded with soldiers.
He had a stout heart, and a dexterous hand; he took his resolution; rushed out upon his foes,
killed the officer in command, galloped off and joined the Prince in the Downs.

The sad story of Charles I. was played out; but Villiers remained stanch, and was permitted
to return and to accompany Prince Charles into Scotland. Then came the battle of Worcester
in 1651: there Charles II. showed himself a worthy descendant of James IV. of Scotland. He
resolved to conquer or die: with desperate gallantry the English Cavaliers and the Scotch Highlanders
seconded the monarch's valiant onslaught on Cromwell's horse, and the invincible Life Guards
were almost driven back by the shock. But they were not seconded; Charles II. had his horse
twice shot under him, but, nothing daunted, he was the last to tear himself away from the field,
and then only upon the solicitations of his friends.

Charles retired to Kidderminster that evening. The Duke of Buckingham, the gallant Lord Derby,
Wilmot, afterwards Earl of Rochester, and some others, rode near him. They were followed by
a small body of horse. Disconsolately they rode on northwards, a faithful band of sixty being
resolved to escort his Majesty to Scotland. At length they halted on Kinver Heath, near Kidderminster:
their guide having lost the way. In this extremity Lord Derby said that he had been received
kindly at an old house in a secluded woody country, between Tong Castle and Brewood, on the
borders of Staffordshire. It was named 'Boscobel,' he said; and that word has henceforth conjured
up to the mind's eye the remembrance of a band of tired heroes, riding through woody glades
to an ancient house, where shelter was given to the worn-out horses and scarcely less harassed
riders.

But not so rapidly did they in reality proceed. A Catholic family, named Giffard, were living
at White-Ladies, about twenty six miles from Worcester. This was only about half a mile from
Boscobel: it had been a convent of Cistercian nuns, whose long white cloaks of old had once
been seen, ghost-like, amid forest glades or on hillock green. The White-Ladies had other memories
to grace it besides those of holy vestals, or of unholy Cavaliers. From the time of the Tudors,
a respectable family named Somers had owned the White-Ladies, and inhabited it since its white-garbed
tenants had been turned out, and the place secularized. 'Somers's House,' as it was called,
(though more happily, the old name has been restored,) had received Queen Elizabeth on her
progress. The richly cultivated old conventual gardens had supplied the Queen with some famous
pears, and, in the fulness of her approval of the fruit, she had added them to the City arms.
At that time one of these vaunted pear-trees stood securely in the market-place of Worcester.

At the White-Ladies, Charles rested for half an hour; and here he left his garters, waistcoat,
and other garments, to avoid discovery, ere he proceeded. They were long kept as relics.

The mother of Lord Somers had been placed in this old house for security, for she was on the
eve of giving birth to the future statesman, who was born in that sanctuary just at this time.
His father at that very moment commanded a troop of horse in Cromwell's army, so that the risk
the Cavaliers ran was imminent. The King's horse was led into the hall. Day was dawning; and
the Cavaliers, as they entered the old conventual tenement, and saw the sunbeams on its walls,
perceived their peril. A family of servants named Penderell held various offices there, and
at Boscobel. William took care of Boscobel, George was a servant at White-Ladies; Humphrey
was the miller to that house, Richard lived close by, at Hebbal Grange. He and William were
called into the royal presence. Lord Derby then said to them, 'This is the King; have a care
of him, and preserve him as thou didst me.'

Then the attendant courtiers began undressing the King. They took off his buff-coat, and put
on him a 'noggon coarse shirt,' and a green suit and another doublet--Richard Penderell's woodman's
dress. Lord Wilmot cut his sovereign's hair with a knife, but Richard Penderell took up his
shears and finished the work. 'Burn it,' said the king; but Richard kept the sacred locks.
Then Charles covered his dark face with soot. Could anything have taken away the expression
of his half-sleepy, half-merry eyes?

They departed, and half an hour afterwards Colonel Ashenhurst, with a troop of Roundhead horse,
rode up to the White-Ladies. The King, meantime, had been conducted by Richard Penderell into
a coppice-wood, with a bill-hook in his hands for defence and disguise. But his followers were
overtaken near Newport; and here Buckingham, with Lords Talbot and Leviston, escaped; and henceforth,
until Charles's wanderings were transferred from England to France, George Villiers was separated
from the Prince. Accompanied by the Earls of Derby and Lauderdale, and by Lord Talbot, he proceeded
northwards, in hopes of joining General Leslie and the Scotch horse. But their hopes were soon
dashed: attacked by a body of Roundheads, Buckingham and Lord Leviston were compelled to leave
the high road, to alight from their horses, and to make their way to Bloore Park, near Newport,
where Villiers found a shelter. He was soon, however, necessitated to depart: he put on a labourer's
dress; he deposited his George, a gift from Henrietta Maria, with a companion, and set off
for Billstrop, in Nottinghamshire, one Matthews, a carpenter, acting as his guide; at Billstrop
he was welcomed by Mr. Hawley, a Cavalier; and from that place he went to Brookesby, in Leicestershire,
the original seat of the Villiers family, and the birthplace of his father. Here he was received
by Lady Villiers--the widow, probably, of his father's brother, Sir William Villiers, one of
those contented country squires who not only sought no distinction, but scarcely thanked James
I. when he made him a baronet. Here might the hunted refugee see, on the open battlements of
the church, the shields on which were exhibited united quarterings of his father's family with
those of his mother; here, listen to old tales about his grandfather, good Sir George, who
married a serving-woman in his deceased wife's kitchen;[3] and that serving-woman became the
leader of fashions in the court of James. Here he might ponder on the vicissitudes which marked
the destiny of the house of Villiers, and wonder what should come next.

That the spirit of adventure was strong within him, is shown by his daring to go up to London,
and disguising himself as a mountebank. He had a coat made, called a 'Jack Pudding Coat:' a
little hat was stuck on his head, with a fox's tail in it, and cocks' feathers here and there.
A wizard's mask one day, a daubing of flour another, completed the disguise it was then so
usual to assume: witness the long traffic held at Exeter Change by the Duchess of Tyrconnel,
Francis Jennings, in a white mask, selling laces, and French gew-gaws, a trader to all appearance,
but really carrying on political intrigues; every one went to chat with the 'White Milliner,'
as she was called, during the reign of William and Mary. The Duke next erected a stage at Charing
Cross--in the very face of the stern Rumpers, who, with long faces, rode past the sinful man
each day as they came ambling up from the Parliament House. A band of puppet-players and violins
set up their shows; and music covers a multitude of incongruities. The ballad was then the
great vehicle of personal attack, and Villiers's dawning taste for poetry was shown in the
ditties which he now composed, and in which he sometimes assisted vocally. Whilst all the other
Cavaliers were forced to fly, he thus bearded his enemies in their very homes: sometimes he
talked to them face to face, and kept the sanctimonious citizens in talk, till they found themselves
sinfully disposed to laugh. But this vagrant life had serious evils: it broke down all the
restraints which civilised society naturally, and beneficially, imposes. Possibly many guessed
that beneath all the fantastic exterior some ulterior project was concealed; yet he remained
untouched by the City Guards.

Villiers resolved to see her. Hearing that she was to pass into Whitehall on a certain day,
he set up his stage where she could not fail to perceive him. He had something important to
say to her. As she drew near, he cried out to the mob that he would give them a song on the
Duchess of Richmond and the Duke of Buckingham: nothing could be more acceptable. 'The mob,'
it is related, 'stopped the coach and the duchess ... Nay, so outrageous were the mob, that
they forced the duchess, who was then the handsomest woman in England, to sit in the boot of
the coach, and to hear him sing all his impertinent songs. Having left off singing, he told
them it was no more than reason that he should present the duchess with some of the songs.
So he alighted from his stage, covered all over with papers and ridiculous little pictures.
Having come to the coach, he took off a black piece of taffeta, which he always wore over one
of his eyes, when his sister discovered immediately who he was, yet had so much presence of
mind as not to give the least sign of mistrust; nay, she gave him some very opprobrious language,
but was very eager at snatching the papers he threw into her coach. Among them was a packet
of letters, which she had no sooner got but she went forward, the duke, at the head of the
mob, attending and hallooing her a good way out of the town.'

A still more daring adventure was contemplated also by this young, irresistible duke. Bridget
Cromwell, the eldest daughter of Oliver, was, at that time, a bride of twenty-six years of
age; having married, in 1647, the saintly Henry Ireton, Lord Deputy of Ireland. Bridget was
the pattern heroine of the 'unco guid,' the quintessence of all propriety; the impersonation
of sanctity; an ultra republican, who scarcely accorded to her father the modest title of Protector.
She was esteemed by her party a 'personage of sublime growth:' 'humbled, not exalted,' according
to Mrs. Hutchinson, by her elevation: 'nevertheless,' says that excellent lady, 'as my Lady
Ireton was walking in the St. James's Park, the Lady Lambert, as proud as her husband, came
by where she was, and as the present princess always hath precedency of the relict of the dead,
so she put by my Lady Ireton, who, notwithstanding her piety and humility, was a little grieved
at the affront.'

After this anecdote one cannot give much credence to this lady's humility: Bridget was, however,
a woman of powerful intellect, weakened by her extreme, and, to use a now common term, crochety
opinions. Like most esprits forts, she was easily imposed upon. One day this paragon saw a
mountebank dancing on a stage in the most exquisite style. His fine shape, too, caught the
attention of one who assumed to be above all folly. It is sometimes fatal to one's peace to
look out of a window; no one knows what sights may rivet or displease. Mistress Ireton was
sitting at her window unconscious that any one with the hated and malignant name of 'Villiers'
was before her. After some unholy admiration, she sent to speak to the mummer. The duke scarcely
knew whether to trust himself in the power of the bloodthirsty Ireton's bride or not--yet his
courage--his love of sport--prevailed. He visited her that evening: no longer, however, in
his jack-pudding coat, but in a rich suit, disguised with a cloak over it. He wore still a
plaster over one eye, and was much disposed to take it off, but prudence forbade; and thus
he stood in the presence of the prim and saintly Bridget Ireton. The particulars of the interview
rest on his statement, and they must not, therefore, be accepted implicitly. Mistress Ireton
is said to have made advances to the handsome incognito. What a triumph to a man like Villiers,
to have intrigued with my Lord Protector's sanctified daughter! But she inspired him with disgust.
He saw in her the presumption and hypocrisy of her father; he hated her as Cromwell's daughter
and Ireton's wife. He told her, therefore, that he was a Jew, and could not by his laws become
the paramour of a Christian woman. The saintly Bridget stood amazed; she had imprudently let
him into some of the most important secrets of her party. A Jew! It was dreadful! But how could
a person of that persuasion be so strict, so strait-laced? She probably entertained all the
horror of Jews which the Puritanical party cherished as a virtue; forgetting the lessons of
toleration and liberality inculcated by Holy Writ. She sent, however, for a certain Jewish
Rabbi to converse with the stranger. What was the Duke of Buckingham's surprise, on visiting
her one evening, to see the learned doctor armed at all points with the Talmud, and thirsting
for dispute, by the side of the saintly Bridget. He could noways meet such a body of controversy;
but thought it best forthwith to set off for the Downs. Before he departed he wrote, however,
to Mistress Ireton, on the plea that she might wish to know to what tribe of Jews he belonged.
So he sent her a note written with all his native wit and point.[4]

Buckingham now experienced all the miseries that a man of expensive pleasures with a sequestrated
estate is likely to endure. One friend remained to watch over his interests in England. This
was John Traylman, a servant of his late father's, who was left to guard the collection of
pictures made by the late duke, and deposited in York House. That collection was, in the opinion
of competent judges, the third in point of value in England, being only inferior to those of
Charles I. and the Earl of Arundel.

It had been bought, with immense expense, partly by the duke's agents in Italy, the Mantua
Gallery supplying a great portion--partly in France--partly in Flanders; and to Flanders a
great portion was destined now to return. Secretly and laboriously did old Traylman pack up
and send off these treasures to Antwerp, where now the gay youth whom the aged domestic had
known from a child was in want and exile. The pictures were eagerly bought by a foreign collector
named Duart. The proceeds gave poor Villiers bread; but the noble works of Titian and Leonardo
da Vinci, and others, were lost for ever to England.

It must have been very irritating to Villiers to know that whilst he just existed abroad, the
great estates enjoyed by his father were being subjected to pillage by Cromwell's soldiers,
or sold for pitiful sums by the Commissioners appointed by the Parliament to break up and annihilate
many of the old properties in England. Burleigh-on-the-Hill, the stately seat on which the
first duke had lavished thousands, had been taken by the Roundheads. It was so large, and presented
so long a line of buildings, that the Parliamentarians could not hold it without leaving in
it a great garrison and stores of ammunition. It was therefore burnt, and the stables alone
occupied; and those even were formed into a house of unusual size. York House was doubtless
marked out for the next destructive decree. There was something in the very history of this
house which might be supposed to excite the wrath of the Roundheads. Queen Mary (whom we must
not, after Miss Strickland's admirable life of her, call Bloody Queen Mary, but who will always
be best known by that unpleasant title) had bestowed York House on the See of York, as a compensation
for York House, at Whitehall, which Henry VIII. had taken from Wolsey. It had afterwards come
into possession of the Keepers of the Great Seal. Lord Bacon was born in York House, his father
having lived there; and the

    'Greatest, wisest, meanest of mankind,'

built here an aviary which cost £300. When the Duke of Lennox wished to buy York House, Bacon
thus wrote to him:--'For this you will pardon me: York House is the house where my father died,
and where I first breathed; and there will I yield my last breath, if it so please God and
the King.' It did not, however, please the King that he should; the house was borrowed only
by the first Duke of Buckingham from the Archbishop of York, and then exchanged for another
seat, on the plea that the duke would want it for the reception of foreign potentates, and
for entertainments given to royalty.

The duke pulled it down: and the house, which was erected as a temporary structure, was so
superb that even Pepys, twenty years after it had been left to bats and cobwebs, speaks of
it in raptures, as of a place in which the great duke's soul was seen in every chamber. On
the walls were shields on which the arms of Manners and of Villiers--peacocks and lions--were
quartered. York House was never, however, finished; but as the lover of old haunts enters Buckingham
Street in the Strand, he will perceive an ancient water-gate, beautifully proportioned, built
by Inigo Jones--smoky, isolated, impaired--but still speaking volumes of remembrance of the
glories of the assassinated duke, who had purposed to build the whole house in that style.

'Yorschaux,' as he called it--York House--the French ambassador had written word to his friends
at home, 'is the most richly fitted up of any that I saw.' The galleries and state rooms were
graced by the display of the Roman marbles, both busts and statues, which the first duke had
bought from Rubens; whilst in the gardens the Cain and Abel of John of Bologna, given by Philip
IV. of Spain to King Charles, and by him bestowed on the elder George Villiers, made that fair
pleasaunce famous. It was doomed--as were what were called the 'superstitious' pictures in
the house--to destruction: henceforth all was in decay and neglect. 'I went to see York House
and gardens,' Evelyn writes in 1655, 'belonging to the former greate Buckingham, but now much
ruined through neglect.'

Traylman, doubtless, kept George Villiers the younger in full possession of all that was to
happen to that deserted tenement in which the old man mourned for the departed, and thought
of the absent.

The intelligence which he had soon to communicate was all-important. York House was to be occupied
again; and Cromwell and his coadjutors had bestowed it on Fairfax. The blow was perhaps softened
by the reflection that Fairfax was a man of generous temper; and that he had an only daughter,
Mary Fairfax, young, and an heiress. Though the daughter of a Puritan, a sort of interest was
attached, even by Cavaliers, to Mary Fairfax, from her having, at five years of age, followed
her father through the civil wars on horseback, seated before a maid-servant; and having, on
her journey, frequently fainted, she was so ill as to have been left in a house by the roadside,
her father never expecting to see her again.

In reference to this young girl, then about eighteen years of age, Buckingham now formed a
plan. He resolved to return to England disguised, to offer his hand to Mary Fairfax, and so
recover his property through the influence of Fairfax. He was confident of his own attractions;
and, indeed, from every account, he appears to have been one of those reckless, handsome, speculative
characters that often take the fancy of better men than themselves. 'He had,' says Burnet,
'no sort of literature, only he was drawn into chymistry; and for some years he thought he
was very near the finding of the philosopher's stone, which had the effect that attends on
all such men as he was, when they are drawn in, to lay out for it. He had no steadiness nor
conduct; he could keep no secret, nor execute any design without spoiling it; he could never
fix his thoughts, nor govern his estate, though then the greatest in England. He was bred about
the king, and for many years he had a great ascendant over him; but he spoke of him to all
persons with that contempt, that at last he drew a lasting disgrace upon himself. And he at
length ruined both body and mind, fortune and reputation, equally.'

This was a sad prospect for poor Mary Fairfax, but certainly if in their choice

    ----'Weak women go astray,
    Their stars are more in fault than they,'

and she was less to blame in her choice than her father, who ought to have advised her against
the marriage. Where and how they met is not known. Mary was not attractive in person: she was
in her youth little, brown, and thin, but became a 'short fat body,' as De Grammont tells us,
in her early married life; in the later period of her existence she was described by the Vicomtesse
de Longueville as a 'little round crumpled woman, very fond of finery;' and she adds that,
on visiting the duchess one day, she found her, though in mourning, in a kind of loose robe
over her, all edged and laced with gold. So much for a Puritan's daughter!

To this insipid personage the duke presented himself. She soon liked him, and in spite of his
outrageous infidelities, continued to like him after their marriage.

He carried his point: Mary Fairfax became his wife on the 6th of September, 1675, and, by the
influence of Fairfax, his estate, or, at all events, a portion of the revenues, about £4,000
a year, it is said, were restored to him. Nevertheless, it is mortifying to find that in 1682,
he sold York House, in which his father had taken such pride, for £30,000. The house was pulled
down; streets were erected on the gardens: George Street, Villiers Street, Duke Street, Buckingham
Street, Off Alley recall the name of the ill-starred George, first duke, and of his needy,
profligate son; but the only trace of the real greatness of the family importance thus swept
away is in the motto inscribed on the point of old Inigo's water-gate, towards the street:
'Fidei coticula crux.' It is sad for all good royalists to reflect that it was not the rabid
Roundhead, but a degenerate Cavalier, who sold and thus destroyed York House.

The marriage with Mary Fairfax, though one of interest solely, was not a mésalliance: her father
was connected by the female side with the Earls of Rutland; he was also a man of a generous
spirit, as he had shown, in handing over to the Countess of Derby the rents of the Isle of
Man, which had been granted to him by the Parliament. In a similar spirit he was not sorry
to restore York House to the Duke of Buckingham.

Cromwell, however, was highly exasperated by the nuptials between Mary Fairfax and Villiers,
which took place at Nun-Appleton, near York, one of Fairfax's estates. The Protector had, it
is said, intended Villiers for one of his own daughters. Upon what plea he acted it is not
stated: he committed Villiers to the Tower, where he remained until the death of Oliver, and
the accession of Richard Cromwell.

In vain did Fairfax solicit his release: Cromwell refused it, and Villiers remained in durance
until the abdication of Richard Cromwell, when he was set at liberty, but not without the following
conditions, dated February 21st, 1658-9:--

'The humble petition of George Duke of Buckingham was this day read. Resolved that George Duke
of Buckingham, now prisoner at Windsor Castle, upon his engagement upon his honour at the bar
of this House, and upon the engagement of Lord Fairfax in £20,000 that the said duke shall
peaceably demain himself for the future, and shall not join with, or abet, or have any correspondence
with, any of the enemies of the Lord Protector, and of this Commonwealth, in any of the parts
beyond the sea, or within this Commonwealth, shall be discharged of his imprisonment and restraint;
and that the Governor of Windsor Castle be required to bring the Duke of Buckingham to the
bar of this House on Wednesday next, to engage his honour accordingly. Ordered, that the security
of £20,000 to be given by the Lord Fairfax, on the behalf of the Duke of Buckingham, be taken
in the name of His Highness the Lord Protector.'

During his incarceration at Windsor, Buckingham had a companion, of whom many a better man
might have been envious: this was Abraham Cowley, an old college friend of the duke's. Cowley
was the son of a grocer, and owed his entrance into academic life to having been a King's Scholar
at Westminster. One day he happened to take up from his mother's parlour window a copy of Spenser's
'Faerie Queene.' He eagerly perused the delightful volume, though he was then only twelve years
old: and this impulse being given to his mind, became at fifteen a reciter of verses. His 'Poetical
Blossoms,' published whilst he was still at school, gave, however, no foretaste of his future
eminence. He proceeded to Trinity College, Cambridge, where his friendship with Villiers was
formed; and where, perhaps, from that circumstance, Cowley's predilections for the cause of
the Stuarts was ripened into loyalty.

No two characters could be more dissimilar than those of Abraham Cowley and George Villiers.
Cowley was quiet, modest, sober, of a thoughtful, philosophical turn, and of an affectionate
nature; neither boasting of his own merits nor depreciating others. He was the friend of Lucius
Cary, Lord Falkland; and yet he loved, though he must have condemned, George Villiers. It is
not unlikely that, whilst Cowley imparted his love of poetry to Villiers, Villiers may have
inspired the pensive and blameless poet with a love of that display of wit then in vogue, and
heightened that sense of humour which speaks forth in some of Cowley's productions. Few authors
suggest so many new thoughts, really his own, as Cowley. 'His works,' it has been said, 'are
a flower-garden run to weeds, but the flowers are numerous and brilliant, and a search after
them will repay the pains of a collector who is not too indolent or fastidious.'

As Cowley and his friend passed the weary hours in durance, many an old tale could the poet
tell the peer of stirring times; for Cowley had accompanied Charles I. in many a perilous journey,
and had protected Queen Henrietta Maria in her escape to France: through Cowley had the correspondence
of the royal pair, when separated, been carried on. The poet had before suffered imprisonment
for his loyalty; and, to disguise his actual occupation, had obtained the degree of Doctor
of Medicine, and assumed the character of a physician, on the strength of knowing the virtues
of a few plants.

Many a laugh, doubtless, had Buckingham at the expense of Dr. Cowley: however, in later days,
the duke proved a true friend to the poet, in helping to procure for him the lease of a farm
at Chertsey from the queen, and here Cowley, rich upon £300 a year, ended his days.

For some time after Buckingham's release, he lived quietly and respectably at Nun-Appleton,
with General Fairfax and the vapid Mary. But the Restoration--the first dawnings of which have
been referred to in the commencement of this biography--ruined him, body and mind.

He was made a Lord of the Bedchamber, a Member of the Privy Council, and afterwards Master
of the Horse,[5] and Lord Lieutenant of Yorkshire. He lived in great magnificence at Wallingford
House; a tenement next to York House, intended to be the habitable and useful appendage to
that palace.

He was henceforth, until he proved treacherous to his sovereign, the brightest ornament of
Whitehall. Beauty of person was hereditary: his father was styled the 'handsomest-bodied man
in England,' and George Villiers the younger equalled George Villiers the elder in all personal
accomplishments. When he entered the Presence-Chamber all eyes followed him; every movement
was graceful and stately. Sir John Reresby pronounced him 'to be the finest gentleman he ever
saw.' 'He was born,' Madame Dunois declared, 'for gallantry and magnificence.' His wit was
faultless, but his manners engaging; yet his sallies often descended into buffoonery, and he
spared no one in his merry moods. One evening a play of Dryden's was represented. An actress
had to spout forth this line--

    'My wound is great because it is so small!'

She gave it out with pathos, paused, and was theatrically distressed. Buckingham was seated
in one of the boxes. He rose, all eyes were fixed upon a face well known in all gay assemblies,
in a tone of burlesque he answered--

    'Then 'twould be greater were it none at all.'

Instantly the audience laughed at the Duke's tone of ridicule, and the poor woman was hissed
off the stage.

The king himself did not escape Buckingham's shafts; whilst Lord Chancellor Clarendon fell
a victim to his ridicule: nothing could withstand it. There, not in that iniquitous gallery
at Whitehall, but in the king's privy chambers, Villiers might be seen, in all the radiance
of his matured beauty. His face was long and oval, with sleepy, yet glistening eyes, over which
large arched eyebrows seemed to contract a brow on which the curls of a massive wig (which
fell almost to his shoulders) hung low. His nose was long, well formed, and flexible; his lips
thin and compressed, and defined, as the custom was, by two very short, fine, black patches
of hair, looking more like strips of sticking-plaster than a moustache. As he made his reverence,
his rich robes fell over a faultless form. He was a beau to the very fold of the cambric band
round his throat; with long ends of the richest, closest point that was ever rummaged out from
a foreign nunnery to be placed on the person of this sacrilegious sinner.

Behold, now, how he changes. Villiers is Villiers no longer. He is Clarendon, walking solemnly
to the Court of the Star Chamber: a pair of bellows is hanging before him for the purse; Colonel
Titus is walking with a fire shovel on his shoulder, to represent a mace; the king, himself
a capital mimic, is splitting his sides with laughter; the courtiers are fairly in a roar.
Then how he was wont to divert the king with his descriptions! 'Ipswich, for instance,' he
said, 'was a town without inhabitants--a river it had without water--streets without names;
and it was a place where asses wore boots:' alluding to the asses, when employed in rolling
Lord Hereford's bowling-green, having boots on their feet to prevent their injuring the turf.

Flecknoe, the poet, describes the duke at this period, in 'Euterpe Revived'--

    The gallant'st person, and the noblest minde,
    In all the world his prince could ever finde,
    Or to participate his private cares,
    Or bear the public weight of his affairs,
    Like well-built arches, stronger with their weight,
    And well-built minds, the steadier with their height;
    Such was the composition and frame
    O' the noble and the gallant Buckingham.'

The praise, however, even in the duke's best days, was overcharged. Villiers was no 'well-built
arch,' nor could Charles trust to the fidelity of one so versatile for an hour. Besides, the
moral character of Villiers must have prevented him, even in those days, from bearing 'the
public weight of affairs.'

A scandalous intrigue soon proved the unsoundness of Flecknoe's tribute. In the round, fair
visage, with its languishing eyes, and full, pouting mouth, there is something voluptuous and
bold. The forehead is broad, but low; and the wavy hair, with its tendril curls, comes down
almost to the fine arched eyebrows, and then, falling into masses, sets off white shoulders
which seem to designate an inelegant amount of embonpoint. There is nothing elevated in the
whole countenance, as Lely has painted her, and her history is a disgrace to her age and time.

She had numerous lovers (not in the refined sense of the word), and, at last, took up with
Thomas Killigrew. He had been, like Villiers, a royalist: first a page to Charles I., next
a companion of Charles II., in exile. He married the fair Cecilia Croft; yet his morals were
so vicious that even in the Court of Venice to which he was accredited, in order to borrow
money from the merchants of that city, he was too profligate to remain. He came back with Charles
II., and was Master of the Revels, or King's Jester, as the court considered him, though without
any regular appointment, during his life: the butt, at once, and the satirist of Whitehall.

It was Killigrew's wit and descriptive powers which, when heightened by wine, were inconceivably
great, that induced Villiers to select Lady Shrewsbury for the object of his admiration. When
Killigrew perceived that he was supplanted by Villiers, he became frantic with rage, and poured
out the bitterest invectives against the countess. This, and other occurrences, at last aroused
the attention of Lord Shrewsbury, who had hitherto never doubted his wife: he challenged the
Duke of Buckingham; and his infamous wife, it is said, held her paramour's horse, disguised
as a page. Lord Shrewsbury was killed,[6] and the scandalous intimacy went on as before. No
one but the queen, no one but the Duchess of Buckingham, appeared shocked at this tragedy,
and no one minded their remarks, or joined in their indignation: all moral sense was suspended,
or wholly stifled; and Villiers gloried in his depravity, more witty, more amusing, more fashionable
than ever; and yet he seems, by the best-known and most extolled of his poems, to have had
some conception of what a real and worthy attachment might be.

The following verses are to his 'Mistress':--

          'What a dull fool was I
           To think so gross a lie,
         As that I ever was in love before!
         I have, perhaps, known one or two,
           With whom I was content to be
           At that which they call keeping company.
         But after all that they could do,
           I still could be with more.
           Their absence never made me shed a tear;
           And I can truly swear,
         That, till my eyes first gazed on you,
           I ne'er beheld the thing I could adore.

          'A world of things must curiously be sought:
           A world of things must be together brought
         To make up charms which have the power to make,
         Through a discerning eye, true love;
         That is a master-piece above
           What only looks and shape can do;
           There must be wit and judgment too,
         Greatness of thought, and worth, which draw,
         From the whole world, respect and awe.

        'She that would raise a noble love must find
         Ways to beget a passion for her mind;
         She must be that which she to be would seem,
         For all true love is grounded on esteem:
         Plainness and truth gain more a generous heart
         Than all the crooked subtleties of art.
         She must be--what said I?--she must be you:
         None but yourself that miracle can do.
         At least, I'm sure, thus much I plainly see,
         None but yourself e'er did it upon me.
         'Tis you alone that can my heart subdue,
         To you alone it always shall be true.'

The next lines are also remarkable for the delicacy and happy turn of the expressions--

        'Though Phillis, from prevailing charms,
         Have forc'd my Delia from my arms,
         Think not your conquest to maintain
         By rigour or unjust disdain.
         In vain, fair nymph, in vain you strive,
         For Love doth seldom Hope survive.
         My heart may languish for a time,
         As all beauties in their prime
         Have justified such cruelty,
         By the same fate that conquered me.
         When age shall come, at whose command
         Those troops of beauty must disband--
         A rival's strength once took away,
         What slave's so dull as to obey?
         But if you'll learn a noble way
         To keep his empire from decay,
         And there for ever fix your throne,
         Be kind, but kind to me alone.'

Like his father, who ruined himself by building, Villiers had a monomania for bricks and mortar,
yet he found time to write 'The Rehearsal,' a play on which Mr. Reed in his 'Dramatic Biography'
makes the following observation: 'It is so perfect a masterpiece in its way, and so truly original,
that notwithstanding its prodigious success, even the task of imitation, which most kinds of
excellence have invited inferior geniuses to undertake, has appeared as too arduous to be attempted
with regard to this, which through a whole century stands alone, notwithstanding that the very
plays it was written expressly to ridicule are forgotten, and the taste it was meant to expose
totally exploded.'

The reverses of fortune which brought George Villiers to abject misery were therefore, in a
very great measure, due to his own misconduct, his depravity, his waste of life, his perversion
of noble mental powers: yet in many respects he was in advance of his age. He advocated, in
the House of Lords, toleration to Dissenters. He wrote a 'Short Discourse on the Reasonableness
of Men's having a Religion, or Worship of God;' yet, such was his inconsistency, that in spite
of these works, and of one styled a 'Demonstration of the Deity,' written a short time before
his death, he assisted Lord Rochester in his atheistic poem upon 'Nothing.'

Butler, the author of Hudibras, too truly said of Villiers 'that he had studied the whole body
of vice;' a most fearful censure--a most significant description of a bad man. 'His parts,'
he adds, 'are disproportionate to the whole, and like a monster, he has more of some, and less
of others, than he should have. And it was perhaps partly this wearied, worn-out spirit that
caused Villiers to rush madly into politics for excitement. In 1666 he asked for the office
of Lord President of the North; it was refused: he became disaffected, raised mutinies, and,
at last, excited the indignation of his too-indulgent sovereign. Charles dismissed him from
his office, after keeping him for some time in confinement. After this epoch little is heard
of Buckingham but what is disgraceful. He was again restored to Whitehall, and, according to
Pepys, even closeted with Charles, whilst the Duke of York was excluded. A certain acquaintance
of the duke's remonstrated with him upon the course which Charles now took in Parliament. 'How
often have you said to me,' this person remarked, 'that the king was a weak man, unable to
govern, but to be governed, and that you could command him as you liked? Why do you suffer
him to do these things?'

'Why,' answered the duke, 'I do suffer him to do these things, that I may hereafter the better
command him.' A reply which betrays the most depraved principle of action, whether towards
a sovereign or a friend, that can be expressed. His influence was for some time supreme, yet
he became the leader of the opposition, and invited to his table the discontented peers, to
whom he satirized the court, and condemned the king's want of attention to business. Whilst
the theatre was ringing with laughter at the inimitable character of Bayes in the 'Rehearsal,'
the House of Lords was listening with profound attention to the eloquence that entranced their
faculties, making wrong seem right, for Buckingham was ever heard with attention.

Taking into account his mode of existence, 'which,' says Clarendon, 'was a life by night more
than by day, in all the liberties that nature could desire and wit invent,' it was astonishing
how extensive an influence he had in both Houses of Parliament. 'His rank and condescension,
the pleasantness of his humours and conversation, and the extravagance and keenness of his
wit, unrestrained by modesty or religion, caused persons of all opinions and dispositions to
be fond of his company, and to imagine that these levities and vanities would wear off with
age, and that there would be enough of good left to make him useful to his country, for which
he pretended a wonderful affection.'

But this brilliant career was soon checked. The varnish over the hollow character of this extraordinary
man was eventually rubbed off. We find the first hint of that famous coalition styled the Cabal
in Pepys's Diary, and henceforth the duke must be regarded as a ruined man. Lord Dorchester
merely removed his elbow. Then the duke asked him if he was uneasy. 'Yes,' the marquis replied,
adding, 'the duke dared not do this if he were anywhere else.' Buckingham retorted, 'Yes, he
would: and he was a better man than my lord marquis:' on which Dorchester told him that he
lied. On this Buckingham struck off Dorchester's hat, seized him by the periwig, pulled it
aside, and held him. The Lord Chamberlain and others interposed and sent them both to the Tower.
Nevertheless, not a month afterwards, Pepys speaks of seeing the duke's play of 'The Chances'
acted at Whitehall. Their reprehensible schemes, their desperate characters, rendered them
the opprobrium of their age, and the objects of censure to all posterity. Whilst matters were
in this state a daring outrage, which spoke fearfully of the lawless state of the times, was
ascribed, though wrongly, to Buckingham. The Duke of Ormond, the object of his inveterate hatred,
was at that time Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Colonel Blood,--a disaffected disbanded officer
of the Commonwealth, who had been attainted for a conspiracy in Ireland, but had escaped punishment,--came
to England, and acted as a spy for the 'Cabal,' who did not hesitate to countenance this daring
scoundrel.

His first exploit was to attack the Duke of Ormond's coach one night in St. James's Street:
to secure his person, bind him, put him on horseback after one of his accomplices, and carry
him to Tyburn, where he meant to hang his grace. On their way, however, Ormond, by a violent
effort, threw himself on the ground; a scuffle ensued: the duke's servants came up, and after
receiving the fire of Blood's pistols, the duke escaped. He was overtaken and arrested: and
was then asked to name his accomplices. 'No,' he replied, 'the fear of danger shall never tempt
me to deny guilt or to betray a friend.' Charles II., with undignified curiosity, wished to
see the culprit. On inquiring of Blood how he dared to make so bold an attempt on the crown,
the bravo answered, 'My father lost a good estate fighting for the crown, and I considered
it no harm to recover it by the crown.' He then told his majesty how he had resolved to assassinate
him: how he had stood among the reeds in Battersea-fields with this design; how then, a sudden
awe had come over him: and Charles was weak enough to admire Blood's fearless bearing and to
pardon his attempt. 'The man,' says Evelyn, 'had not only a daring, but a villanous, unmerciful
look, a false countenance; but very well-spoken, and dangerously insinuating.'

Early in 1662, the Duke of Buckingham had been engaged in practices against the court: he had
disguised deep designs by affecting the mere man of pleasure. Never was there such splendour
as at Wallingford House--such wit and gallantry; such perfect good breeding; such apparently
openhanded hospitality. At those splendid banquets, John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, 'a man
whom the Muses were fond to inspire, but ashamed to avow,' showed his 'beautiful face,' as
it was called; and chimed in with that wit for which the age was famous. The frequenters at
Wallingford House gloried in their indelicacy. 'One is amazed,' Horace Walpole observes, 'at
hearing the age of Charles II. called polite. The Puritans have affected to call everything
by a Scripture' name; the new comers affected to call everything by its right name;

    'As if preposterously they would confess
     A forced hypocrisy in wickedness.'

Walpole compares the age of Charles II. to that of Aristophanes--'which called its own grossness
polite.' How bitterly he decries the stale poems of the time as 'a heap of senseless ribaldry;'
how truly he shows that licentiousness weakens as well as depraves the judgment. 'When Satyrs
are brought to court,' he observes, 'no wonder the Graces would not trust themselves there.'

The Cabal is said, however, to have been concocted, not at Wallingford House, but at Ham House,
near Kingston-on-Thames.

In this stately old manor-house, the abode of the Tollemache family, the memory of Charles
II. and of his court seems to linger still. Ham House was intended for the residence of Henry,
Prince of Wales, and was built in 1610. It stands near the river Thames; and is flanked by
noble avenues of elm and of chestnut trees, down which one may almost, as it were, hear the
king's talk with his courtiers; see Arlington approach with the well-known patch across his
nose; or spy out the lovely, childish Miss Stuart and her future husband, the Duke of Richmond,
slipping behind into the garden, lest the jealous mortified king should catch a sight of the
'conscious lovers.'

This stately structure was given by Charles II., in 1672, to the Duke and Duchess of Lauderdale:
she, the supposed mistress of Cromwell; he, the cruel, hateful Lauderdale of the Cabal. This
detestable couple, however, furnished with massive grandeur the apartments of Ham House. They
had the ceilings painted by Verrio; the furniture was rich, and even now the bellows and brushes
in some of the rooms are of silver filigree. One room is furnished with yellow damask, still
rich, though faded; the very seats on which Charles, looking around him, saw Clifford, Arlington,
Buckingham, Ashley (the infamous Shaftesbury), and Lauderdale--and knew not, good easy man,
that he was looking on a band of traitors--are still there. Nay, he even sat to Sir Peter Lely
for a portrait for this very place--in which, schemes for the ruin of the kingdom were concocted.
All, probably, was smooth and pleasing to the monarch as he ranged down the fine gallery, ninety-two
feet long; or sat at dinner amid his foes in that hall, surrounded with an open balustrade;
or disported himself on the river's green brink. Nay, one may even fancy Nell Gwynn taking
a day's pleasure in this then lone and ever sweet locality. We hear her swearing, as she was
wont to do, perchance at the dim looking-glasses, her own house in Pall Mall, given her by
the king, having been filled up, for the comedian, entirely, ceiling and all, with looking-glass.
How bold and pretty she looked in her undress! Even Pepys--no very sound moralist, though a
vast hypocrite--tells us: Nelly, 'all unready' was 'very pretty, prettier far than he thought.'
But to see how she was 'painted,' would, he thought, 'make a man mad.'

'Madame Ellen,' as after her elevation, as it was termed, she was called, might, since she
held long a great sway over Charles's fancy, be suffered to scamper about Ham House--where
her merry laugh perhaps scandalised the now Saintly Duchess of Lauderdale,--just to impose
on the world; for Nell was regarded as the Protestant champion of the court, in opposition
to her French rival, the Duchess of Portsmouth.

Let us suppose that she has been at Ham House, and is gone off to Pall Mall again, where she
can see her painted face in every turn. The king has departed, and Killigrew, who, at all events,
is loyal, and the true-hearted Duke of Richmond, all are away to London. In yon sanctimonious-looking
closet, next to the duchess's bed-chamber, with her psalter and her prayer-book on her desk,
which is fixed to her great chair, and that very cane which still hangs there serving as her
support when she comes forth from that closet, murmur and wrangle the component parts of that
which was never mentioned without fear--the Cabal. The conspirators dare not trust themselves
in the gallery: there is tapestry there, and we all know what coverts there are for eaves-droppers
and spiders in tapestried walls: then the great Cardinal spiders do so click there, are so
like the death-watch, that Villiers, who is inveterately superstitious, will not abide there.
The hall, with its enclosing galleries, and the buttery near, are manifestly unsafe. So they
heard, nay crouch, mutter, and concoct that fearful treachery which, as far as their country
is concerned, has been a thing apart in our annals, in 'my Lady's' closet. Englishmen are turbulent,
ambitious, unscrupulous; but the craft of Maitland, Duke of Lauderdale--the subtlety of Ashley,
seem hardly conceivable either in a Scot or Southron.

These meetings had their natural consequence. One leaves Lauderdale, Arlington, Ashley, and
Clifford, to their fate. But the career of Villiers inspires more interest. He seemed born
for better things. Like many men of genius, he was so credulous that the faith he pinned on
one Heydon, an astrologer, at this time, perhaps buoyed him up with false hopes. Be it as it
may, his plots now tended to open insurrection. In 1666, a proclamation had been issued for
his apprehension--he having then absconded. On this occasion he was saved by the act of one
whom he had injured grossly--his wife. She managed to outride the serjeant-at-arms, and to
warn him of his danger. She had borne his infidelities, after the fashion of the day, as a
matter of course: jealousy was then an impertinence--constancy, a chimera; and her husband,
whatever his conduct, had ever treated her with kindness of manner; he had that charm, that
attribute of his family, in perfection, and it had fascinated Mary Fairfax.

He fled, and played for a year successfully the pranks of his youth. At last, worn out, he
talked of giving himself up to justice.

Whilst in the Tower--to which he was again committed--Buckingham's pardon was solicited by
Lady Castlemaine; on which account the king was very angry with her; called her a meddling
'jade;' she calling him 'fool,' and saying if he was not a fool he never would suffer his best
subjects to be imprisoned--referring to Buckingham. And not only did she ask his liberty, but
the restitution of his places. No wonder there was discontent when such things were done, and
public affairs were in such a state. Buckingham was now as presuming as ever: he had a theatre
of his own, and he soon showed his usual arrogance by beating Henry Killigrew on the stage,
and taking away his coat and sword; all very 'innocently' done, according to Pepys. In the
year 1680, he was threatened with an impeachment, in which, with his usual skill, he managed
to exculpate himself by blaming Lord Arlington. The House of Commons passed a vote for his
removal; and he entered the ranks of the opposition.

But this career of public meanness and private profligacy was drawing to a close. Alcibiades
no longer--his frame wasted by vice--his spirits broken by pecuniary difficulties--Buckingham's
importance visibly sank away. 'He remained, at last,' to borrow the words of Hume, 'as incapable
of doing hurt as he had ever been little desirous of doing good to mankind.' His fortune had
now dwindled down to £300 a year in land; he sold Wallingford House, and removed into the City.

And now the fruits of his adversity, not, we hope, too late, began to appear. Like Lord Rochester,
who had ordered all his immoral works to be burnt, Buckingham now wished to retrieve the past.
In 1685 he wrote the religious works which form so striking a contrast with his other productions.

That he had been up to the very time of his ruin perfectly impervious to remorse, dead also
to shame, is amply manifested by his conduct soon after his duel with the Earl of Shrewsbury.

Sir George Etherege had brought out a new play at the Duke of York's Theatre. It was called,
'She Would if she Could.' Plays in those days began at what we now consider our luncheon hour.
Though Pepys arrived at the theatre on this occasion at two o'clock--his wife having gone before--about
a thousand people had then been put back from the pit. They kept their promise, and discovered
him in the most profligate society. It was indeed impossible to know in what directions his
fancies might take him, when we find him believing in the predictions of a poor fellow in a
wretched lodging near Tower Hill, who, having cast his nativity, assured the duke he would be king.

He had continued for years to live with the Countess of Shrewsbury, and two months after her
husband's death, had taken her to his home. Then, at last, the Duchess of Buckingham indignantly
observed, that she and the countess could not possibly live together. 'So I thought, madam,'
was the reply. 'I have therefore ordered your coach to take you to your father's.' It has been
asserted that Dr. Sprat, the duke's chaplain, actually married him to Lady Shrewsbury, and
that his legal wife was thenceforth styled 'The Duchess-dowager.'

He retreated with his mistress to Claverdon, near Windsor, situated on the summit of a hill
which is washed by the Thames. It is a noble building, with a great terrace in front, under
which are twenty-six niches, in which Buckingham had intended to place twenty-six statues as
large as life; and in the middle is an alcove with stairs. Here he lived with the infamous
countess, by whom he had a son, whom he styled Earl of Coventry, (his second title,) and who
died an infant.

One lingers still over the social career of one whom Louis XIV. called 'the only English gentleman
he had ever seen.' A capital retort was made to Buckingham by the Princess of Orange, during
an interview, when he stopped at the Hague, between her and the Duke. He was trying diplomatically
to convince her of the affection of England for the States. 'We do not,' he said, 'use Holland
like a mistress, we love her as a wife.' 'Vraiment je crois que vous nous aimez comme vous
aimez la vôtre,' was the sharp and clever answer.

On the death of Charles II., in 1685, Buckingham retired to the small remnant of his Yorkshire
estates. His debts were now set down at the sum of £140,000. They were liquidated by the sale
of his estates. He took kindly to a country life, to the surprise of his old comrade in pleasure,
Etherege. 'I have heard the news,' that wit cried, alluding to this change, 'with no less astonishment
than if I had been told that the Pope had begun to wear a periwig and had turned beau in the
seventy-fourth year of his age!'

Father Petre and Father Fitzgerald were sent by James II. to convert the duke to Popery. The
following anecdote is told of their conference with the dying sinner:--'We deny,' said the
Jesuit Petre, 'that any one can be saved out of our Church. Your grace allows that our people
may be saved.'--'No,' said the duke, 'I make no doubt you will all be damned to a man!' 'Sir,'
said the father, 'I cannot argue with a person so void of all charity.'--'I did not expect,
my reverend father,' said the duke, 'such a reproach from you, whose whole reasoning was founded
on the very same instance of want of charity to yourself.'

Buckingham's death took place at Helmsby, in Yorkshire, and the immediate cause was an ague
and fever, owing to having sat down on the wet grass after fox-hunting. Brian Fairfax, who
loved this brilliant reprobate, has left the only authentic account on record of his last hours.

The night previous to the duke's death Fairfax had received a message from him desiring him
to prepare a bed for him in his house, Bishop Hill, in York. The next day, however, Fairfax
was sent for to his master, whom he found dying. He was speechless, but gave the afflicted
servant an earnest look of recognition.

The Earl of Arran, son of the Duke of Hamilton, and a gentleman of the neighbourhood, stood
by his bedside. He had then received the Holy Communion from a neighbouring clergyman of the
Established Church. When the minister came it is said that he inquired of the duke what religion
he professed. 'It is,' replied the dying man, 'an insignificant question, for I have been a
shame and a disgrace to all religions: if you can do me any good, pray do.' When a Popish priest
had been mentioned to him, he answered vehemently, 'No, no!'

He was in a very low state when Lord Arran had found him. But though that nobleman saw death
in his looks, the duke said he 'felt so well at heart that he knew he could be in no danger.'

He appeared to have had inflammation in the bowels, which ended in mortification. He begged
of Lord Arran to stay with him. The house seems to have been in a most miserable condition,
for in a letter from Lord Arran to Dr. Sprat, he says, 'I confess it made my heart bleed to
see the Duke of Buckingham in so pitiful a place, and so bad a condition, and what made it
worse, he was not at all sensible of it, for he thought in a day or two he should be well;
and when we reminded him of his condition, he said it was not as we apprehended. So I sent
for a worthy gentleman, Mr. Gibson, to be assistant to me in this work; so we jointly represented
his condition to him, who I saw was at first very uneasy; but I think we should not have discharged
the duties of honest men if we had suffered him to go out of this world without desiring him
to prepare for death.' The duke joined heartily in the beautiful prayers for the dying, of
our Church, and yet there was a sort of selfishness and indifference to others manifest even
at the last.

'Mr. Gibson,' writes Lord Arran, 'asked him if he had made a will, or if he would declare who
was to be his heir? but to the first, he answered he had made none; and to the last, whoever
was named he answered, "No." First, my lady duchess was named, and then I think almost everybody
that had any relation to him, but his answer always was, "No." I did fully represent my lady
duchess' condition to him, but nothing that was said to him could make him come to any point.'

In this 'retired corner,' as Lord Arran terms it, did the former wit and beau, the once brave
and fine cavalier, the reckless plotter in after-life, end his existence. His body was removed
to Helmsby Castle, there to wait the duchess' pleasure, being meantime embalmed. Not one farthing
could his steward produce to defray his burial. His George and blue ribbon were sent to the
King James, with an account of his death.

In Kirby Moorside the following entry in the register of burials records the event, which is
so replete with a singular retributive justice--so constituted to impress and sadden the mind:--

    'Georges Villus Lord dooke of Buckingham.'

He left scarcely a friend to mourn his life; for to no man had he been true. He died on the
16th of April according to some accounts; according to others, on the third of that month,
1687, in the sixty-first year of his age. His body, after being embalmed, was deposited in
the family vault in Henry VII.'s chapel.[7] He left no children, and his title was therefore
extinct. The Duchess of Buckingham, of whom Brian Fairfax remarks, 'that if she had none of
the vanities, she had none of the vices of the court,' survived him several years. She died
in 1705, at the age of sixty-six, and was buried in the vault of the Villiers' family, in the
chapel of Henry VII.

Such was the extinction of all the magnificence and intellectual ascendency that at one time
centred in the great and gifted family of Villiers.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Dryden.]

[Footnote 2: The day after the battle at Kingston, the Duke's estates were confiscated. (8th
July, 1648.)--Nichols's History of Leicestershire, iii. 213; who also says that the Duke offered
marriage to one of the daughters of Cromwell, but was refused. He went abroad in 1648, but
returned with Charles II. to Scotland in 1650, and again escaped to France after the battle
of Worcester, 1651. The sale of the pictures would seem to have commenced during his first exile.]

[Footnote 3: Sir George Villiers's second wife was Mary, daughter of Antony Beaumont, Esq.,
of Glenfield, (Nichols's Leicestershire, iii. 193,) who was son of Wm. Beaumont, Esq., of Cole
Orton. She afterwards was married successively to Sir Wm. Rayner and Sir Thomas Compton, and
was created Countess of Buckingham in 1618.]

[Footnote 4: This incident is taken from Madame Dunois' Memoirs, part i. p. 86.]

[Footnote 5: The duke became Master of the Horse in 1688; he paid £20,000 to the Duke of Albemarle
for the post.]

[Footnote 6: The duel with the Earl of Shrewsbury took place 17th January, 1667-8.]

[Footnote 7: Brian Fairfax states, that at his death (the Duke of Buckingham's) he charged
his debts on his estate, leaving much more than enough to cover them.

It has been observed by a French critic, that the Mémoires de Grammont afford the truest specimens
of French character in our language. To this it may be added, that the subject of that animated
narrative was most completely French in principle, in intelligence, in wit that hesitated at
nothing, in spirits that were never daunted, and in that incessant activity which is characteristic
of his countrymen. Grammont, it was said, 'slept neither night nor day;' his life was one scene
of incessant excitement.

His father, supposed to have been the natural son of Henry the Great, of France, did not suppress
that fact, but desired to publish it: for the morals of his time were so depraved, that it
was thought to be more honourable to be the illegitimate son of a king than the lawful child
of lowlier parents. Born in the Castle of Semeac, on the banks of the Garonne, the fame of
two fair ancestresses, Corisande and Menadame, had entitled the family of De Grammont to expect
in each successive member an inheritance of beauty. Wit, courage, good nature, a charming address,
and boundless assurance, were the heritage of Philibert de Grammont. Beauty was not in his
possession; good nature, a more popular quality, he had in abundance:

    'His wit to scandal never stooping,
     His mirth ne'er to buffoonery drooping.'

As Philibert grew up, the two aristocratic professions of France were presented for his choice:
the army, or the church. Neither of these vocations constitutes now the ambition of the high-born
in France: the church, to a certain extent, retains its prestige, but the army, ever since
officers have risen from the ranks, does not comprise the same class of men as in England.
In the reign of Louis XIII., when De Grammont lived it was otherwise. All political power was
vested in the church. Richelieu was, to all purposes, the ruler of France, the dictator of
Europe; and, with regard to the church, great men, at the head of military affairs, were daily
proving to the world, how much intelligence could effect with a small numerical power. Young
men took one course or another: the sway of the cabinet, on the one hand, tempted them to the
church; the brilliant exploits of Turenne, and of Condé, on the other, led them to the camp.
It was merely the difference of dress between the two that constituted the distinction: the
soldier might be as pious as the priest, the priest was sure to be as worldly as the soldier;
the soldier might have ecclesiastical preferment; the priest sometimes turned out to fight.

Philibert de Grammont chose to be a soldier. He was styled the Chevalier de Grammont, according
to custom, his father being still living. He fought under Turenne, at the siege of Trino. The
army in which he served was beleaguering that city when the gay youth from the banks of the
Garonne joined it, to aid it not so much by his valour as by the fun, the raillery, the off-hand
anecdote, the ready, hearty companionship which lightened the soldier's life in the trenches:
adieu to impatience, to despair, even to gravity. The very generals could not maintain their
seriousness when the light-hearted De Grammont uttered a repartee--

    'Sworn enemy to all long speeches,
       Lively and brilliant, frank and free,
       Author of many a repartee:
       Remember, over all, that he
     Was not renowned for storming breaches.'

Where he came, all was sunshine, yet there breathed not a colder, graver man than the Calvinist
Turenne: modest, serious, somewhat hard, he gave the young nobility who served under him no
quarter in their shortcomings; but a word, a look, from De Grammont could make him, malgrê
lui, unbend. The gay chevalier's white charger's prancing, its gallant rider foremost in every
peril, were not forgotten in after-times, when De Grammont, in extreme old age, chatted over
the achievements and pleasures of his youth.

Amongst those who courted his society in Turenne's army was Matta, a soldier of simple manners,
hard habits, and handsome person, joined to a candid, honest nature. He soon persuaded De Grammont
to share his quarters, and there they gave splendid entertainments, which, Frenchman-like,
De Grammont paid for out of the successes of the gaming-tables. But chances were against them;
the two officers were at the mercy of their maitre d'hôtel, who asked for money. One day, when
De Grammont came home sooner than usual, he found Matta fast asleep. Whilst De Grammont stood
looking at him, he awoke, and burst into a violent fit of laughter.

'What is the matter?' cried the chevalier.

'Faith, chevalier,' answered Matta, 'I was dreaming that we had sent away our maitre d'hôtel,
and were resolved to live like our neighbours for the rest of the campaign.'

'Poor fellow!' cried De Grammont. 'So, you are knocked down at once: what would have become
of you if you had been reduced to the situation I was in at Lyons, four days before I came
here? Come, I will tell you all about it.'

'Begin a little farther back,' cried Matta, 'and tell me about the manner in which you first
paid your respects to Cardinal Richelieu. Lay aside your pranks as a child, your genealogy,
and all your ancestors together; you cannot know anything about them.'

'Well,' replied De Grammont, 'it was my father's own fault that he was not Henry IV.'s son:
see what the Grammonts have lost by this crossed-grained fellow! Faith, we might have walked
before the Counts de Vendôme at this very moment.'

Then he went on to relate how he had been sent to Pau, to the college, to be brought up to
the church, with an old servant to act both as his valet and his guardian. How his head was
too full of gaming to learn Latin. How they gave him his rank at college, as the youth of quality,
when he did not deserve it; how he travelled up to Paris to his brother to be polished, and
went to court in the character of an abbé. 'Ah, Matta, you know the kind of dress then in vogue.
No, I would not change my dress, but I consented to draw over it a cassock.

De Grammont's brother, however, thus addressed the Chevalier:--'Well, my little parson,' said
he, as they went home, 'you have acted your part to perfection; but now you must choose your
career. If you like to stick to the church, you will possess great revenues, and nothing to
do; if you choose to go into the army, you will risk your arm or your leg, but in time you
may be a major-general with a wooden leg and a glass eye, the spectacle of an indifferent,
ungrateful court. Make your choice.'

The choice, Philibert went on to relate, was made. For the good of his soul, he renounced the
church, but for his own advantage, he kept his abbacy. This was not difficult in days when
secular abbés were common; nothing would induce him to change his resolution of being a soldier.
Meantime he was perfecting his accomplishments as a fine gentleman, one of the requisites for
which was a knowledge of all sorts of games. No matter that his mother was miserable at his
decision. Had her son been an abbé, she thought he would have become a saint: nevertheless,
when he returned home, with the air of a courtier and a man of the world, boy as he was, and
the very impersonation of what might then be termed la jeune France, she was so enchanted with
him that she consented to his going to the wars, attended again by Brinon, his valet, equerry,
and Mentor in one. Next in De Grammont's narrative came his adventure at Lyons, where he spent
the 200 louis his mother had given Brinon for him, in play, and very nearly broke the poor
old servant's heart; where he had duped a horse-dealer; and he ended by proposing plans, similarly
honourable, to be adopted for their present emergencies.

The first step was to go to head-quarters, to dine with a certain Count de Cameran, a Savoyard,
and invite him to supper. Here Matta interposed. 'Are you mad?' he exclaimed. 'Invite him to
supper! we have neither money nor credit; we are ruined; and to save us you intend to give
a supper!'

'Stupid fellow!' cried De Grammont. 'Cameran plays at quinze: so do I: we want money. He has
more than he knows what to do with: we give a supper, he pays for it. However,' he added, 'it
is necessary to take certain precautions. You command the Guards: when night comes on, order
your Sergent-de-place to have fifteen or twenty men under arms, and let them lay themselves
flat on the ground between this and head-quarters. Most likely we shall win this stupid fellow's
money. Now the Piedmontese are suspicious, and he commands the Horse. Now, you know, Matta,
you cannot hold your tongue, and are very likely to let out some joke that will vex him. Supposing
he takes it into his head that he is being cheated? He has always eight or ten horsemen: we
must be prepared.'

'Embrace me!' cried Matta, 'embrace me! for thou art unparalleled. I thought you only meant
to prepare a pack of cards, and some false dice. But the idea of protecting a man who plays
at quinze by a detachment of foot is excellent: thine own, dear Chevalier.'

Thus, like some of Dumas' heroes, hating villany as a matter of course, but being by no means
ashamed to acknowledge it, the Piedmontese was asked to supper. He came. Nevertheless, in the
midst of the affair, when De Cameran was losing as fast as he could, Matta's conscience touched
him: he awoke from a deep sleep, heard the dice shaking, saw the poor Savoyard losing, and
advised him to play no more.

'Don't you know, Count, you cannot win?'

'Why?' asked the Count.

'Why, faith, because we are cheating you,' was the reply.

The Chevalier turned round impatiently, 'Sieur Matta,' he cried, 'do you suppose it can be
any amusement to Monsieur le Comte to be plagued with your ill-timed jests? For my part, I
am so weary of the game, that I swear by Jupiter I can scarcely play any more.' Nothing is
more distasteful to a losing gamester than a hint of leaving off; so the Count entreated the
Chevalier to continue, and assured him that 'Monsieur Matta might say what he pleased, for
it did not give him the least uneasiness to continue.'

The Chevalier allowed the Count to play upon credit, and that act of courtesy was taken very
kindly: the dupe lost 1,500 pistoles, which he paid the next morning, when Matta was sharply
reprimanded for his interference.

'Faith,' he answered, 'it was a point of conscience with me; besides, it would have given me
pleasure to have seen his Horse engaged with my Infantry, if he had taken anything amiss.'

The sum thus gained set the spendthrifts up; and De Grammont satisfied his conscience by giving
it away, to a certain extent, in charity. It is singular to perceive in the history of this
celebrated man that moral taint of character which the French have never lost: this total absence
of right reasoning on all points of conduct, is coupled in our Gallic neighbours with the greatest
natural benevolence, with a generosity only kept back by poverty, with impulsive, impressionable
dispositions, that require the guidance of a sound Protestant faith to elevate and correct them.

The Chevalier hastened, it is related, to find out distressed comrades, officers who had lost
their baggage, or who had been ruined by gaming; or soldiers who had been disabled in the trenches;
and his manner of relieving them was as graceful and as delicate as the bounty he distributed
was welcome. He was the darling of the army. The poor soldier knew him personally, and adored
him; the general was sure to meet him in the scenes of action, and to seek his company in those
of security.

And, having thus retrieved his finances, the gay-hearted Chevalier used, henceforth, to make
De Cameran go halves with him in all games in which the odds were in his own favour. Even the
staid Calvinist, Turenne, who had not then renounced, as he did in after-life, the Protestant
faith, delighted in the off-hand merriment of the Chevalier. It was towards the end of the
siege of Trino, that De Grammont went to visit that general in some new quarters, where Turenne
received him, surrounded by fifteen or twenty officers. According to the custom of the day,
cards were introduced, and the general asked the Chevalier to play.

'Sir,' returned the young soldier, 'my tutor taught me that when a man goes to see his friends
it is neither prudent to leave his own money behind him nor civil to take theirs.'

'Well,' answered Turenne, 'I can tell you you will find neither much money nor deep play among
us; but that it cannot be said that we allowed you to go off without playing, suppose we each
of us stake a horse.'

De Grammont agreed, and, lucky as ever, won from the officers some fifteen or sixteen horses,
by way of a joke; but seeing several faces pale, he said, 'Gentlemen, I should be sorry to
see you go away from your general's quarters on foot; it will do very well if you all send
me to-morrow your horses, except one, which I give for the cards.'

The valet-de-chambre thought he was jesting. 'I am serious,' cried the Chevalier. 'Parole d'honneur
I give a horse for the cards; and what's more, take which you please, only don't take mine.'

'Faith,' said Turenne, pleased with the novelty of the affair, 'I don't believe a horse was
ever before given for the cards.'

Young people, and indeed old people, can perhaps hardly remember the time when, even in England,
money used to be put under the candlesticks 'for the cards,' as it was said, but in fact for
the servants, who waited. Winner or loser, the tax was to be paid, and this custom of vails
was also prevalent in France.

Trino at last surrendered, and the two friends rushed from their campaigning life to enjoy
the gaieties of Turin, at that time the centre of pleasure; and resolved to perfect their characters
as military heroes--by falling in love, if respectably, well; if disreputably, well too, perhaps
all the more agreeable, and venturesome, as they thought.

The court of Turin was then presided over by the Duchess of Savoy, Madame Royale, as she was
called in France, the daughter of Henry IV. of France, the sister of Henrietta Maria of England.
She was a woman of talent and spirit, worthy of her descent, and had certain other qualities
which constituted a point of resemblance between her and her father; she was, like him, more
fascinating than respectable.

The customs of Turin were rather Italian than French. At that time every lady had her professed
lover, who wore the liveries of his mistress, bore her arms, and sometimes assumed her very
name. The office of the lover was, never to quit his lady in public, and never to approach
her in private: to be on all occasions her esquire. In the tournament her chosen knight-cicisbeo
came forth with his coat, his housings, his very lance distinguished with the cyphers and colours
of her who had condescended to invest him with her preference. It was the remnant of chivalry
that authorized this custom; but of chivalry demoralized--chivalry denuded of her purity, her
respect, the chivalry of corrupted Italy, not of that which, perhaps, fallaciously, we assign
to the earlier ages.

Grammont and Matta enlisted themselves at once in the service of two beauties. Grammont chose
for the queen of beauty, who was to 'rain influence' upon him, Mademoiselle de St. Germain,
who was in the very bloom of youth. She was French, and, probably, an ancestress of that all-accomplished
Comte de St. Germain, whose exploits so dazzled successive European courts, and the fullest
account of whom, in all its brilliant colours, yet tinged with mystery, is given in the Memoirs
of Maria Antoinette, by the Marquise d'Adhémar, her lady of the bed-chamber.

The lovely object of De Grammont's 'first love' was a radiant brunette belle, who took no pains
to set off by art the charms of nature. She had some defects: her black and sparkling eyes
were small; her forehead, by no means 'as pure as moonlight sleeping upon snow,' was not fair,
neither were her hands; neither had she small feet--but her form generally was perfect; her
elbows had a peculiar elegance in them; and in old times to hold the elbow out well, and yet
not to stick it out, was a point of early discipline. Then her glossy black hair set off a
superb neck and shoulders; and, moreover, she was gay, full of mirth, life, complaisance, perfect
in all the acts of politeness, and invariable in her gracious and graceful bearing.

Matta admired her; but De Grammont ordered him to attach himself to the Marquise de Senantes,
a married beauty of the court; and Matta, in full faith that all Grammont said and did was
sure to succeed, obeyed his friend. The Chevalier had fallen in love with Mademoiselle de St.
Germain at first sight, and instantly arrayed himself in her colour, which was green, whilst
Matta wore blue, in compliment to the marquise; and they entered the next day upon duty, at
La Venerie, where the Duchess of Savoy gave a grand entertainment. De Grammont, with his native
tact and unscrupulous mendacity, played his part to perfection; but his comrade, Matta, committed
a hundred solecisms. The very second time he honoured the marquise with his attentions, he
treated her as if she were his humble servant: when he pressed her hand, it was a pressure
that almost made her scream. When he ought to have ridden by the side of her coach, he set
off, on seeing a hare start from her form; then he talked to her of partridges when he should
have been laying himself at her feet. Both these affairs ended as might have been expected.
Mademoiselle de St. Germain was diverted by Grammont, yet he could not touch her heart. Her
aim was to marry; his was merely to attach himself to a reigning beauty. They parted without
regret; and he left the then remote court of Turin for the gayer scenes of Paris and Versailles.
Here he became as celebrated for his alertness in play as for his readiness in repartee; as
noted for his intrigues, as he afterwards was for his bravery.

Those were stirring days in France. Anne of Austria, then in her maturity, was governed by
Mazarin, the most artful of ministers, an Italian to the very heart's core, with a love of
amassing wealth engrafted in his supple nature that amounted to a monomania. The whole aim
of his life was gain. Though gaming was at its height, Mazarin never played for amusement;
he played to enrich himself; and when he played, he cheated.

The Chevalier de Grammont was now rich, and Mazarin worshipped the rich. He was witty; and
his wit soon procured him admission into the clique whom the wily Mazarin collected around
him in Paris. Whatever were De Grammont's faults, he soon perceived those of Mazarin; he detected,
and he detested, the wily, grasping, serpent-like attributes of the Italian; he attacked him
on every occasion on which a 'wit combat' was possible: he gracefully showed Mazarin off in
his true colours. With ease he annihilated him, metaphorically, at his own table. Yet De Grammont
had something to atone for: he had been the adherent and companion in arms of Condé; he had
followed that hero to Sens, to Nordlingen, to Fribourg, and had returned to his allegiance
to the young king, Louis XIV., only because he wished to visit the court at Paris. Mazarin's
policy, however, was that of pardon and peace--of duplicity and treachery--and the Chevalier
seemed to be forgiven on his return to Paris, even by Anne of Austria. Nevertheless, De Grammont
never lost his independence; and he could boast in after-life that he owed the two great cardinals
who had governed France nothing that they could have refused. It was true that Richelieu had
left him his abbacy; but he could not refuse it to one of De Grammont's rank. From Mazarin
he had gained nothing except what he had won at play.

After Mazarin's death the Chevalier intended to secure the favour of the king, Louis XIV.,
to whom, as he rejoiced to find, court alone was now to be paid. He had now somewhat rectified
his distinctions between right and wrong, and was resolved to have no regard for favour unless
supported by merit; he determined to make himself beloved by the courtiers of Louis, and feared
by the ministers; to dare to undertake anything to do good, and to engage in nothing at the
expense of innocence. He still continued to be eminently successful in play, of which he did
not perceive the evil, nor allow the wickedness; but he was unfortunate in love, in which he
was equally unscrupulous and more rash than at the gaming-table.

Among the maids of honour of Anne of Austria was a young lady named Anne Lucie de la Mothe
Houdancourt. Louis, though not long married, showed some symptoms of admiration for this débutante
in the wicked ways of the court.

Gay, radiant in the bloom of youth and innocence, the story of this young girl presents an
instance of the unhappiness which, without guilt, the sins of others bring upon even the virtuous.
The queen-dowager, Anne of Austria, was living at St. Germains when Mademoiselle de la Mothe
Houdancourt was received into her household. The Duchess de Noailles, at that time Grande Maitresse,
exercised a vigilant and kindly rule over the maids of honour; nevertheless, she could not
prevent their being liable to the attentions of Louis: she forbade him however to loiter, or
indeed even to be seen in the room appropriated to the young damsels under her charge; and
when attracted by the beauty of Annie Lucie de la Mothe, Louis was obliged to speak to her
through a hole behind a clock which stood in a corridor.

Annie Lucie, notwithstanding this apparent encouragement of the king's addresses, was perfectly
indifferent to his admiration. She was secretly attached to the Marquis de Richelieu, who had,
or pretended to have, honourable intentions towards her. Everything was tried, but tried in
vain, to induce the poor girl to give up all her predilections for the sake of a guilty distinction--that
of being the king's mistress: even her mother reproached her with her coldness. A family council
was held, in hopes of convincing her of her wilfulness, and Annie Lucie was bitterly reproached
by her female relatives; but her heart still clung to the faithless Marquis de Richelieu, who,
however, when he saw that a royal lover was his rival, meanly withdrew.

Her fall seemed inevitable; but the firmness of Anne of Austria saved her from her ruin. That
queen insisted on her being sent away; and she resisted even the entreaties of the queen, her
daughter-in-law, and the wife of Louis XIV.; who, for some reasons not explained, entreated
that the young lady might remain at the court. Anne was sent away in a sort of disgrace to
the convent of Chaïllot, which was then considered to be quite out of Paris, and sufficiently
secluded to protect her from visitors. According to another account, a letter full of reproaches,
which she wrote to the Marquis de Richelieu upbraiding him for his desertion, had been intercepted.

It was to this young lady that De Grammont, who was then, in the very centre of the court,
'the type of fashion and the mould of form,' attached himself to her as an admirer who could
condescend to honour with his attentions those whom the king pursued. The once gay girl was
thus beset with snares: on one side was the king, whose disgusting preference was shown when
in her presence by sighs and sentiment; on the other, De Grammont, whose attentions to her
were importunate, but failed to convince her that he was in love; on the other was the time-serving,
heartless De Richelieu, whom her reason condemned, but whom her heart cherished. She soon showed
her distrust and dislike of De Grammont: she treated him with contempt; she threatened him
with exposure, yet he would not desist: then she complained of him to the king. It was then
that he perceived that though love could equalize conditions, it could not act in the same
way between rivals. He was commanded to leave the court. Paris, therefore, Versailles, Fontainbleau,
and St. Germains were closed against this gay Chevalier; and how could he live elsewhere? Whither
could he go? Strange to say, he had a vast fancy to behold the man who, stained with the crime
of regicide, and sprung from the people, was receiving magnificent embassies from continental
nations, whilst Charles II. was seeking security in his exile from the power of Spain in the
Low Countries. He was eager to see the Protector, Cromwell. But Cromwell, though in the height
of his fame when beheld by De Grammont--though feared at home and abroad--was little calculated
to win suffrages from a mere man of pleasure like De Grammont. The court, the city, the country,
were in his days gloomy, discontented, joyless: a proscribed nobility was the sure cause of
the thin though few festivities of the now lugubrious gallery of Whitehall. Puritanism drove
the old jovial churchmen into retreat, and dispelled every lingering vestige of ancient hospitality:
long graces and long sermons, sanctimonious manners, and grim, sad faces, and sad-coloured
dresses were not much to De Grammont's taste; he returned to France, and declared that he had
gained no advantage from his travels. Nevertheless, either from choice or necessity, he made
another trial of the damps and fogs of England.[8]

When he again visited our country, Charles II. had been two years seated on the throne of his
father. Everything was changed, and the British court was in its fullest splendour; whilst
the rejoicings of the people of England at the Restoration were still resounding through the land.

If one could include royal personages in the rather gay than worthy category of the 'wits and
beaux of society,' Charles II. should figure at their head. He was the most agreeable companion,
and the worst king imaginable. In the first place he was, as it were, a citizen of the world:
tossed about by fortune from his early boyhood; a witness at the tender age of twelve of the
battle of Edge Hill, where the celebrated Harvey had charge of him and of his brother. That
inauspicious commencement of a wandering life had perhaps been amongst the least of his early
trials. The fiercest was his long residence as a sort of royal prisoner in Scotland. A travelled,
humbled man, he came back to England with a full knowledge of men and manners, in the prime
of his life, with spirits unbroken by adversity, with a heart unsoured by that 'stern nurse,'
with a gaiety that was always kindly, never uncourteous, ever more French than English; far
more natural did he appear as the son of Henrietta Maria than as the offspring of the thoughtful
Charles.

In person, too, the king was then agreeable, though rather what the French would call distingué
than dignified; he was, however, tall, and somewhat elegant, with a long French face, which
in his boyhood was plump and full about the lower part of the cheeks, but now began to sink
into that well-known, lean, dark, flexible countenance, in which we do not, however, recognize
the gaiety of the man whose very name brings with it associations of gaiety, politeness, good
company, and all the attributes of a first-rate wit, except the almost inevitable ill-nature.
There is in the physiognomy of Charles II. that melancholy which is often observable in the
faces of those who are mere men of pleasure.

De Grammont found himself completely in his own sphere at Whitehall, where the habits were
far more French than English. Along that stately Mall, overshadowed with umbrageous trees,
which retains--and it is to be hoped ever will retain--the old name of the 'Birdcage Walk,'
one can picture to oneself the king walking so fast that no one can keep up with him; yet stopping
from time to time to chat with some acquaintances. He is walking to Duck Island, which is full
of his favourite water-fowl, and of which he has given St. Evremond the government. How pleasant
is his talk to those who attend him as he walks along; how well the quality of good-nature
is shown in his love of dumb animals: how completely he is a boy still, even in that brown
wig of many curls, and with the George and Garter on his breast! Boy, indeed, for he is followed
by a litter of young spaniels: a little brindled greyhound frisks beside him; it is for that
he is ridiculed by the 'psalm' sung at the Calves' Head Club: these favourites were cherished
to his death.

    'His dogs would sit in council boards
     Like judges in their seats:
     We question much which had most sense,
     The master or the curs.'

Then what capital stories Charles would tell, as he unbent at night amid the faithful, though
profligate, companions of his exile! He told his anecdotes, it is true, over and over again,
yet they were always embellished with some fresh touch--like the repetition of a song which
has been encored on the stage. Whether from his inimitable art, or from his royalty, we leave
others to guess, but his stories bore repetition again and again: they were amusing, and even
novel to the very last.

To this seducing court did De Grammont now come. It was a delightful exchange from the endless
ceremonies and punctilios of the region over which Louis XIV. presided. Wherever Charles was,
his palace appeared to resemble a large hospitable house--sometimes town, sometimes country--in
which every one did as he liked; and where distinctions of rank were kept up as a matter of
convenience, but were only valued on that score.

In other respects, Charles had modelled his court very much on the plan of that of Louis XIV.,
which he had admired for its gaiety and spirit. Corneille, Racine, Molière, Boileau, were encouraged
by le Grand Monarque. Wycherley and Dryden were attracted by Charles to celebrate the festivities,
and to amuse the great and the gay. In various points De Grammont found a resemblance. The
queen-consort, Catherine of Braganza, was as complacent to her husband's vices as the queen
of Louis. These royal ladies were merely first sultanas, and had no right, it was thought,
to feel jealousy, or to resent neglect. Each returning sabbath saw Whitehall lighted up, and
heard the tabors sound for a branle, (Anglicised 'brawl'). This was a dance which mixed up
everybody, and called a brawl, from the foot being shaken to a quick time. Gaily did his Majesty
perform it, leading to the hot exercise Anne Hyde, Duchess of York, stout and homely, and leaving
Lady Castlemaine to his son, the Duke of Monmouth. Then Charles, with ready grace, would begin
the coranto, taking a single lady in this dance along the gallery. Lords and ladies one after
another followed, and 'very noble,' writes Pepys, 'and great pleasure it was to see.' Next
came the country dances, introduced by Mary, Countess of Buckingham, the grandmother of the
graceful duke who is moving along the gallery;--and she invented those once popular dances
in order to introduce, with less chance of failure, her rustic country cousins, who could not
easily be taught to carry themselves well in the brawl, or to step out gracefully in the coranto,
both of which dances required practice and time. In all these dances the king shines the most,
and dances much better than his brother the Duke of York.

In these gay scenes De Grammont met with the most fashionable belles of the court: fortunately
for him they all spoke French tolerably; and he quickly made himself welcome amongst even the
few--and few indeed there were--who plumed themselves upon untainted reputations. Hitherto
those French noblemen who had presented themselves in England had been poor and absurd. The
court had been thronged with a troop of impertinent Parisian coxcombs, who had pretended to
despise everything English, and who treated the natives as if they were foreigners in their
own country. De Grammont, on the contrary, was familiar with every one: he ate, he drank, he
lived, in short, according to the custom of the country that hospitably received him, and accorded
him the more respect, because they had been insulted by others.

He now introduced the petits soupers, which have never been understood anywhere so well as
in France, and which are even there dying out to make way for the less social and more expensive
dinner; but, perhaps, he would even here have been unsuccessful, had it not been for the society
and advice of the famous St. Evremond, who at this time was exiled in France, and took refuge
in England.

This celebrated and accomplished man had some points of resemblance with De Grammont. Like
him, he had been originally intended for the church; like him he had turned to the military
profession; he was an ensign before he was full sixteen; and had a company of foot given him
after serving two or three campaigns. Like De Grammont, he owed the facilities of his early
career to his being the descendant of an ancient and honourable family. St. Evremond was the
Seigneur of St Denis le Guast, in Normandy, where he was born.

Both these sparkling wits of society had at one time, and, in fact, at the same period, served
under the great Condé; both were pre-eminent, not only in literature, but in games of chance.
St. Evremond was famous at the University of Caen, in which he studied, for his fencing; and
'St. Evremond's pass' was well known to swordsmen of his time;--both were gay and satirical;
neither of them pretended to rigid morals; but both were accounted men of honour among their
fellow-men of pleasure. They were graceful, kind, generous.

In person St. Evremond had the advantage, being a Norman--a race which combines the handsomest
traits of an English countenance with its blond hair, blue eyes, and fair skin. Neither does
the slight tinge of the Gallic race detract from the attractions of a true, well-born Norman,
bred up in that province which is called the Court-end of France, and polished in the capital.
Your Norman is hardy, and fond of field-sports: like the Englishman, he is usually fearless;
generous, but, unlike the English, somewhat crafty. You may know him by the fresh colour, the
peculiar blue eye, long and large; by his joyousness and look of health, gathered up in his
own marshy country, for the Norman is well fed, and lives on the produce of rich pasture-land,
with cheapness and plenty around him. And St. Evremond was one of the handsomest specimens
of this fine locality (so mixed up as it is with us); and his blue eyes sparkled with humour;
his beautifully-turned mouth was all sweetness; and his noble forehead, the whiteness of which
was set off by thick dark eyebrows, was expressive of his great intelligence, until a wen grew
between his eyebrows, and so changed all the expression of his face that the Duchess of Mazarin
used to call him the 'Old Satyr.' St. Evremond was also Norman in other respects: he called
himself a thorough Roman Catholic, yet he despised the superstitions of his church, and prepared
himself for death without them. When asked by an ecclesiastic sent expressly from the court
of Florence to attend his death-bed, if he 'would be reconciled,' he answered, 'With all my
heart; I would fain be reconciled to my stomach, which no longer performs its usual functions.'
And his talk, we are told, during the fortnight that preceded his death, was not regret for
a life we should, in seriousness, call misspent, but because partridges and pheasants no longer
suited his condition, and he was obliged to be reduced to boiled meats. No one, however, could
tell what might also be passing in his heart. We cannot always judge of a life, any more than
of a drama, by its last scene; but this is certain, that in an age of blasphemy St. Evremond
could not endure to hear religion insulted by ridicule. 'Common decency,' said this man of
the world, 'and a due regard to our fellow-creatures, would not permit it.' He did not, it
seems, refer his displeasure to a higher source--to the presence of the Omniscient,--who claims
from us all not alone the tribute of our poor frail hearts in serious moments, but the deep
reverence of every thought in the hours of careless pleasure.

It was now St. Evremond who taught De Grammont to collect around him the wits of that court,
so rich in attractions, so poor in honour and morality. The object of St. Evremond's devotion,
though he had, at the æra of the Restoration, passed his fiftieth year, was Hortense Mancini,
once the richest heiress, and still the most beautiful woman in Europe, and a niece, on her
mother's side, of Cardinal Mazarin. Hortense had been educated, after the age of six, in France.
She was Italian in her accomplishments, in her reckless, wild disposition, opposed to that
of the French, who are generally calculating and wary, even in their vices: she was Italian
in the style of her surpassing beauty, and French to the core in her principles. Hortense,
at the age of thirteen, had been married to Armand Duc de Meilleraye and Mayenne, who had fallen
so desperately in love with this beautiful child, that he declared 'if he did not marry her
he should die in three months.' Cardinal Mazarin, although he had destined his niece Mary to
this alliance, gave his consent on condition that the duke should take the name of Mazarin.
The cardinal died a year after this marriage, leaving his niece Hortense the enormous fortune
of £1,625,000; yet she died in the greatest difficulties, and her corpse was seized by her
creditors.

The Duc de Mayenne proved to be a fanatic, who used to waken his wife in the dead of the night
to hear his visions; who forbade his child to be nursed on fast-days; and who believed himself
to be inspired. After six years of wretchedness poor Hortense petitioned for a separation and
a division of property. She quitted her husband's home and took refuge first in a nunnery,
where she showed her unbelief, or her irreverence, by mixing ink with holy-water, that the
poor nuns might black their faces when they crossed themselves; or, in concert with Madame
de Courcelles, another handsome married woman, she used to walk through the dormitories in
the dead of night, with a number of little dogs barking at their heels; then she filled two
great chests that were over the dormitories with water, which ran over, and, penetrating through
the chinks of the floor, wet the holy sisters in their beds. At length all this sorry gaiety
was stopped by a decree that Hortense was to return to the Palais Mazarin; and to remain there
until the suit for a separation should be decided. That the result should be favourable was
doubtful: therefore, one fine night in June, 1667, Hortense escaped. She dressed herself in
male attire, and, attended by a female servant, managed to get through the gate at Paris, and
to enter a carriage. Then she fled to Switzerland; and, had not her flight been shared by the
Chevalier de Rohan, one of the handsomest men in France, one could hardly have blamed an escape
from a half-lunatic husband. She was only twenty-eight when, after various adventures, she
came in all her unimpaired beauty to England. Charles was captivated by her charms, and, touched
by her misfortunes, he settled on her a pension of £4,000 a year, and gave her rooms in St.
James's. Waller sang her praise:--

    'When through the world fair Mazarine had run,
     Bright as her fellow-traveller, the sun:
     Hither at length the Roman eagle flies,
     As the last triumph of her conquering eyes.'

If Hortense failed to carry off from the Duchess of Portsmouth--then the star of Whitehall--the
heart of Charles, she found, at all events, in St. Evremond, one of those French, platonic,
life-long friends, who, as Chateaubriand worshipped Madame Récamier, adored to the last the
exiled niece of Mazarin. Every day, when in her old age and his, the warmth of love had subsided
into the serener affection of pitying, and yet admiring friendship, St. Evremond was seen,
a little old man in a black coif, carried along Pall Mall in a sedan chair, to the apartment
of Madame Mazarin, in St. James's. He always took with him a pound of butter, made in his own
little dairy, for her breakfast. When De Grammont was installed at the court of Charles, Hortense
was, however, in her prime. Her house at Chelsea, then a country village, was famed for its
society and its varied pleasures. St. Evremond has so well described its attractions that his
words should be literally given. 'Freedom and discretion are equally to be found there. Every
one is made more at home than in his own house, and treated with more respect than at court.
It is true that there are frequent disputes there, but they are those of knowledge and not
of anger. There is play there, but it is inconsiderable, and only practised for its amusement.
You discover in no countenance the fear of losing, nor concern for what is lost. Some are so
disinterested that they are reproached for expressing joy when they lose, and regret when they
win. Play is followed by the most excellent repasts in the world. There you will find whatever
delicacy is brought from France, and whatever is curious from the Indies. Even the commonest
meats have the rarest relish imparted to them. There is neither a plenty which gives a notion
of extravagance, nor a frugality that discovers penury or meanness.'

What an assemblage it must have been! Here lolls Charles, Lord Buckhurst, afterwards Lord Dorset,
the laziest, in matters of business or court advancement--the boldest, in point of frolic and
pleasure, of all the wits and beaux of his time. His youth had been full of adventure and of
dissipation. 'I know not how it is,' said Wilmot, Lord Rochester, 'but my Lord Dorset can do
anything, and is never to blame.' He had, in truth, a heart; he could bear to hear others praised;
he despised the arts of courtiers; he befriended the unhappy; he was the most engaging of men
in manners, the most loveable and accomplished of human beings; at once poet, philanthropist,
and wit; he was also possessed of chivalric notions, and of daring courage.

Like his royal master, Lord Dorset had travelled; and when made a gentleman of the bedchamber
to Charles II., he was not unlike his sovereign in other traits; so full of gaiety, so high-bred,
so lax, so courteous, so convivial, that no supper was complete without him: no circle 'the
right thing,' unless Buckhurst, as he was long called, was there to pass the bottle round,
and to keep every one in good-humour. Yet, he had misspent a youth in reckless immorality,
and had even been in Newgate on a charge, a doubtful charge it is true, of highway robbery
and murder, but had been found guilty of manslaughter only. He was again mixed up in a disgraceful
affair with Sir Charles Sedley. When brought before Sir Robert Hyde, then Chief Justice of
the Common Pleas, his name having been mentioned, the judge inquired whether that was the Buckhurst
lately tried for robbery? and when told it was, he asked him whether he had so soon forgotten
his deliverance at that time: and whether it would not better become him to have been at his
prayers begging God's forgiveness than to come into such courses again?

The reproof took effect, and Buckhurst became what was then esteemed a steady man; he volunteered
and fought gallantly in the fleet under James Duke of York: and he completed his reform, to
all outward show, by marrying Lady Falmouth.[9] Buckhurst, in society, the most good-tempered
of men, was thus referred to by Prior, in his poetical epistle to Fleetwood Sheppard:--

    'When crowding folks, with strange ill faces,
     Were making legs, and begging places:
     And some with patents, some with merit,
     Tired out my good Lord Dorset's spirit.'

Yet his pen was full of malice, whilst his heart was tender to all. Wilmot, Lord Rochester,
cleverly said of him:--

    'For pointed satire I would Buckhurst chuse,
     The best good man with the worst-natured muse.'

Still more celebrated as a beau and wit of his time, was John Wilmot, Lord Rochester. He was
the son of Lord Wilmot, the cavalier who so loyally attended Charles II. after the Battle of
Worcester; and, as, the offspring of that royalist, was greeted by Lord Clarendon, then Chancellor
of the University of Oxford, when he took his degree as Master of Arts, with a kiss.[10] The
young nobleman then travelled, according to custom; and then most unhappily for himself and
for others, whom he corrupted by his example, he presented himself at the court of Charles
II. He was at this time a youth of eighteen, and one of the handsomest persons of his age.
The face of Buckhurst was hard and plain; that of De Grammont had little to redeem it but its
varying intelligence; but the countenance of the young Earl of Rochester was perfectly symmetrical:
it was of a long oval, with large, thoughtful, sleepy eyes; the eyebrows arched and high above
them; the brow, though concealed by the curls of the now modest wig, was high and smooth; the
nose, delicately shaped, somewhat aquiline; the mouth full, but perfectly beautiful, was set
off by a round and well-formed chin. Such was Lord Rochester in his zenith; and as he came
forward on state occasions, his false light curls hanging down on his shoulders--a cambric
kerchief loosely tied, so as to let the ends, worked in point, fall gracefully down: his scarlet
gown in folds over a suit of light steel armour--for men had become carpet knights then, and
the coat of mail worn by the brave cavaliers was now less warlike, and was mixed up with robes,
ruffles, and rich hose--and when in this guise he appeared at Whitehall, all admired; and Charles
was enchanted with the simplicity, the intelligence, and modesty of one who was then an ingenuous
youth, with good aspirations, and a staid and decorous demeanour.

Woe to Lady Rochester--woe to the mother who trusted her son's innocence in that vitiated court!
Lord Rochester forms one of the many instances we daily behold, that it is those most tenderly
cared for, who often fall most deeply, as well as most early, into temptation. He soon lost
every trace of virtue--of principle, even of deference to received notions of propriety. For
a while there seemed hopes that he would not wholly fall: courage was his inheritance, and
he distinguished himself in 1665, when as a volunteer, he went in quest of the Dutch East India
fleet, and served with heroic gallantry under Lord Sandwich. And when he returned to court,
there was a partial improvement in his conduct. He even looked back upon his former indiscretions
with horror: he had now shared in the realities of life: he had grasped a high and honourable
ambition; but he soon fell away--soon became almost a castaway. 'For five years,' he told Bishop
Burnet, when on his death-bed, 'I was never sober.' His reputation as a wit must rest, in the
present day, chiefly upon productions which have long since been condemned as unreadable. Strange
to say, when not under the influence of wine, he was a constant student of classical authors,
perhaps the worst reading for a man of his tendency: all that was satirical and impure attracting
him most. Boileau, among French writers, and Cowley among the English, were his favourite authors.
He also read many books of physic; for long before thirty his constitution was so broken by
his life, that he turned his attention to remedies, and to medical treatment; and it is remarkable
how many men of dissolute lives take up the same sort of reading, in the vain hope of repairing
a course of dissolute living. As a writer, his style was at once forcible and lively; as a
companion, he was wildly vivacious: madly, perilously, did he outrage decency, insult virtue,
profane religion. Charles II. liked him on first acquaintance, for Rochester was a man of the
most finished and fascinating manners; but at length there came a coolness, and the witty courtier
was banished from Whitehall. Unhappily for himself, he was recalled, and commanded to wait
in London until his majesty should choose to readmit him into his presence.

Disguises and practical jokes were the fashion of the day. The use of the mask, which was put
down by proclamation soon after the accession of Queen Anne, favoured a series of pranks with
which Lord Rochester, during the period of his living concealed in London, diverted himself.
The success of his scheme was perfect. He established himself, since he could not go to Whitehall,
in the City.

He now tried a new sphere of action; and instead of returning, as he might have done, to the
court, retreated into the most obscure corners of the metropolis; and again changing his name
and dress, gave himself out as a German doctor named Bendo, who professed to find out inscrutable
secrets, and to apply infallible remedies; to know, by astrology, all the past, and to foretell
the future.

If the reign of Charles was justly deemed an age of high civilization, it was also one of extreme
credulity. Unbelief in religion went hand in hand with blind faith in astrology and witchcraft;
in omens, divinations, and prophecies: neither let us too strongly despise, in these their
foibles, our ancestors. They had many excuses for their superstitions; and for their fears,
false as their hopes, and equally groundless. The circulation of knowledge was limited: the
public journals, that part of the press to which we now owe inexpressible gratitude for its
general accuracy, its enlarged views, its purity, its information, was then a meagre statement
of dry facts: an announcement, not a commentary. 'The Flying Post,' the 'Daily Courant,' the
names of which may be supposed to imply speed, never reached lone country places till weeks
after they had been printed on their one duodecimo sheet of thin coarse paper. Religion, too,
just emerging into glorious light from the darkness of popery, had still her superstitions;
and the mantle that priestcraft had contrived to throw over her exquisite, radiant, and simple
form, was not then wholly and finally withdrawn. Romanism still hovered in the form of credulity.

But now, with shame be it spoken, in the full noonday genial splendour of our Reformed Church,
with newspapers, the leading articles of which rise to a level with our greatest didactic writers,
and are competent even to form the mind as well as to amuse the leisure hours of the young
readers: with every species of direct communication, we yet hold to fallacies from which the
credulous in Charles's time would have shrunk in dismay and disgust. Table-turning, spirit-rapping,
clairvoyance, Swedenborgianism, and all that family of follies, would have been far too strong
for the faith of those who counted upon dreams as their guide, or looked up to the heavenly
planets with a belief, partly superstitious, partly reverential, for their guidance; and in
a dim and flickering faith trusted to their stars.

'Dr. Bendo,' therefore, as Rochester was called--handsome, witty, unscrupulous, and perfectly
acquainted with the then small circle of the court--was soon noted for his wonderful revelations.
Chamber-women, waiting-maids, and shop-girls were his first customers: but, very soon, gay
spinsters from the court came in their hoods and masks to ascertain with anxious faces, their
fortunes; whilst the cunning, sarcastic 'Dr. Bendo,' noted in his diary all the intrigues which
were confided to him by these lovely clients. La Belle Jennings, the sister of Sarah Duchess
of Marlborough, was among his disciples; she took with her the beautiful Miss Price, and, disguising
themselves as orange girls, these young ladies set off in a hackney-coach to visit Dr. Bendo;
but when within half a street of the supposed fortune-teller's, were prevented by the interruption
of a dissolute courtier named Brounker.

'Everything by turns and nothing long.' When Lord Rochester was tired of being an astrologer,
he used to roam about the streets as a beggar; then he kept a footman who knew the Court well,
and used to dress him up in a red coat, supply him with a musket, like a sentinel, and send
him to watch at the doors of all the fine ladies, to find out their goings on: afterwards,
Lord Rochester would retire to the country, and write libels on these fair victims, and, one
day, offered to present the king with one of his lampoons; but being tipsy, gave Charles, instead,
one written upon himself.

At this juncture we read with sorrow Bishop Burnet's forcible description of his career:--

'He seems to have freed himself from all impressions of virtue or religion, of honour or good
nature.... He had but one maxim, to which he adhered firmly, that he has to do everything,
and deny himself in nothing that might maintain his greatness. He was unhappily made for drunkenness,
for he had drunk all his friends dead, and was able to subdue two or three sets of drunkards
one after another; so it scarce ever appeared that he was disordered after the greatest drinking:
an hour or two of sleep carried all off so entirely, that no sign of them remained.... This
had a terrible conclusion.'

Like many other men, Rochester might have been saved by being kept far from the scene of temptation.
Whilst he remained in the country he was tolerably sober, perhaps steady. When he approached
Brentford on his route to London, his old propensities came upon him.

When scarcely out of his boyhood he carried off a young heiress, Elizabeth Mallett, whom De
Grammont calls La triste heritière: and triste, indeed, she naturally was. Possessed of a fortune
of £2500 a year, this young lady was marked out by Charles II. as a victim for the profligate
Rochester. But the reckless young wit chose to take his own way of managing the matter. One
night, after supping at Whitehall with Miss Stuart, the young Elizabeth was returning home
with her grandfather, Lord Haly, when their coach was suddenly stopped near Charing Cross by
a number of bravos, both on horseback and on foot--the 'Roaring Boys and Mohawks,' who were
not extinct even in Addison's time. They lifted the affrighted girl out of the carriage, and
placed her in one which had six horses; they then set off for Uxbridge, and were overtaken;
but the outrage ended in marriage, and Elizabeth became the unhappy, neglected Countess of
Rochester. Yet she loved him--perhaps in ignorance of all that was going on whilst she stayed
with her four children at home. It is an unpolished way of proceeding, which a modest man ought
to be ashamed of. I have left you a prey to your own imaginations amongst my relations, the
worst of damnations. But there will come an hour of deliverance, till when, may my mother be
merciful unto you! So I commit you to what I shall ensue, woman to woman, wife to mother, in
hopes of a future appearance in glory....

'Pray write as often as you have leisure, to your

    'ROCHESTER.'

To his son, he writes: 'You are now grown big enough to be a man, if you can be wise enough;
and the way to be truly wise is to serve God, learn your book, and observe the instructions
of your parents first, and next your tutor, to whom I have entirely resigned you for this seven
years; and according as you employ that time, you are to be happy or unhappy for ever. I have
so good an opinion of you, that I am glad to think you will never deceive me. Dear child, learn
your book and be obedient, and you will see what a father I shall be to you. You shall want
no pleasure while you are good, and that you may be good are my constant prayers.'

Lord Rochester had not attained the age of thirty, when he was mercifully awakened to a sense
of his guilt here, his peril hereafter. It seemed to many that his very nature was so warped
that penitence in its true sense could never come to him; but the mercy of God is unfathomable;
He judges not as man judges; He forgives, as man knows not how to forgive.

    'God, our kind Master, merciful as just,
     Knowing our frame, remembers man is dust:
     He marks the dawn of every virtuous aim,
     And fans the smoking flax into a flame;
     He hears the language of a silent tear,
     And sighs are incense from a heart sincere.'

And the reformation of Rochester is a confirmation of the doctrine of a special Providence,
as well as of that of a retribution, even in this life.

The retribution came in the form of an early but certain decay; of a suffering so stern, so
composed of mental and bodily anguish, that never was man called to repentance by a voice so
distinct as Rochester. The reformation was sent through the instrumentality of one who had
been a sinner like himself, who had sinned with him; an unfortunate lady, who, in her last
hours, had been visited, reclaimed, consoled by Bishop Burnet. Of this, Lord Rochester had
heard. He was then, to all appearance, recovering from his last sickness. He sent for Burnet,
who devoted to him one evening every week of that solemn winter when the soul of the penitent
sought reconciliation and peace.

The conversion was not instantaneous; it was gradual, penetrating, effective, sincere. Those
who wish to gratify curiosity concerning the death-bed of one who had so notoriously sinned,
will read Burnet's account of Rochester's illness and death with deep interest; and nothing
is so interesting as a death-bed. Those who delight in works of nervous thought, and elevated
sentiments, will read it too, and arise from the perusal gratified. Those, however, who are
true, contrite Christians will go still farther; they will own that few works so intensely
touch the holiest and highest feelings; few so absorb the heart; few so greatly show the vanity
of life; the unspeakable value of purifying faith. 'It is a book which the critic,' says Doctor
Johnson, 'may read for its elegance, the philosopher for its arguments, the saint for its piety.'

Whilst deeply lamenting his own sins, Lord Rochester became anxious to redeem his former associates
from theirs.

'When Wilmot, Earl of Rochester,'[11] writes William Thomas, in a manuscript preserved in the
British Museum, 'lay on his death-bed, Mr. Fanshawe came to visit him, with an intention to
stay about a week with him. Mr. Fanshawe, sitting by the bedside, perceived his lordship praying
to God, through Jesus Christ, and acquainted Dr. Radcliffe, who attended my Lord Rochester
in this illness and was then in the house, with what he had heard, and told him that my lord
was certainly delirious, for to his knowledge, he said, he believed neither in God nor in Jesus
Christ. The doctor, who had often heard him pray in the same manner, proposed to Mr. Fanshawe
to go up to his lordship to be further satisfied touching this affair. When they came to his
room the doctor told my lord what Mr. Fanshawe said, upon which his lordship addressed himself
to Mr. Fanshawe to this effect: "Sir, it is true, you and I have been very bad and profane
together, and then I was of the opinion you mention. But now I am quite of another mind, and
happy am I that I am so. I am very sensible how miserable I was whilst of another opinion.
Sir, you may assure yourself that there is a Judge and a future state;" and so entered into
a very handsome discourse concerning the last judgment, future state &c., and concluded with
a serious and pathetic exhortation to Mr. Fanshawe to enter into another course of life; adding
that he (Mr. F.) knew him to be his friend; that he never was more so than at this time; and
"sir," said he, "to use a Scripture expression, I am not mad, but speak the words of truth
and soberness." Upon this Mr. Fanshawe trembled, and went immediately a-foot to Woodstock,
and there hired a horse to Oxford, and thence took coach to London.'

There were other butterflies in that gay court; beaux without wit; remorseless rakes, incapable
of one noble thought or high pursuit; and amongst the most foolish and fashionable of these
was Henry Jermyn, Lord Dover. As the nephew of Henry Jermyn, Lord St. Albans, this young simpleton
was ushered into a court life with the most favourable auspices. Jermyn Street (built in 1667)
recalls to us the residence of Lord St. Albans, the supposed husband of Henrietta Maria. It
was also the centre of fashion when Henry Jermyn the younger was launched into its unholy sphere.
Near Eagle Passage lived at that time La Belle Stuart, Duchess of Richmond; next door to her
Henry Savile, Rochester's friend. The locality has since been purified by worthier associations:
Sir Isaac Newton lived for a time in Jermyn Street, and Gray lodged there.

It was, however, in De Grammont's time, the scene of all the various gallantries which were
going on. Henry Jermyn was supported by the wealth of his uncle, that uncle who, whilst Charles
II. was starving at Brussels, had kept a lavish table in Paris: little Jermyn, as the younger
Jermyn was called, owed much indeed to his fortune, which had procured him great éclat at the
Dutch court. His head was large; his features small; his legs short; his physiognomy was not
positively disagreeable, but he was affected and trifling, and his wit consisted in expressions
learnt by rote, which supplied him either with raillery or with compliments.

This petty, inferior being had attracted the regard of the Princess Royal--afterwards Princess
of Orange--the daughter of Charles I. Then the Countess of Castlemaine--afterwards Duchess
of Cleveland--became infatuated with him; he captivated also the lovely Mrs. Hyde, a languishing
beauty, whom Sir Peter Lely has depicted in all her sleepy attractions, with her ringlets falling
lightly over her snowy forehead and down to her shoulders. This lady was, at the time when
Jermyn came to England, recently married to the son of the great Clarendon. She fell desperately
in love with this unworthy being: but, happily for her peace, he preferred the honour (or dishonour)
of being the favourite of Lady Castlemaine, and Mrs. Hyde escaped the disgrace she, perhaps,
merited.

De Grammont appears absolutely to have hated Jermyn; not because he was immoral, impertinent,
and contemptible, but because it was Jermyn's boast that no woman, good or bad, could resist
him. Yet, in respect to their unprincipled life, Jermyn and De Grammont had much in common.
The Chevalier was at this time an admirer of the foolish beauty, Jane Middleton; one of the
loveliest women of a court where it was impossible to turn without seeing loveliness.

Mrs. Middleton was the daughter of Sir Roger Needham, and she has been described, even by the
grave Evelyn, as a 'famous, and, indeed, incomparable beauty.' A coquette, she was, however,
the friend of intellectual men; and it was probably at the house of St. Evremond that the Count
first saw her.

The Count de Grammont, piqued, was beginning to turn his attention to Miss Warmestre, one of
the queen's maids of honour, a lively brunette, and a contrast to the languid Mrs. Middleton;
when, happily for him, a beauty appeared on the scene, and attracted him, by higher qualities
than mere looks, to a real, fervent, and honourable attachment. Sir George had distinguished
himself during the Civil Wars: on the death of Charles I. he had retired to France, but returned,
after the Restoration, to London, with a large family, all intelligent and beautiful.

From their relationship to the Ormond family, the Hamiltons were soon installed in the first
circles of fashion. The Duke of Ormond's sons had been in exile with the king; they now added
to the lustre of the court after his return. The Earl of Arran, the second, was a beau of the
true Cavalier order; clever at games, more especially at tennis, the king's favourite diversion;
he touched the guitar well; and made love ad libitum. Lord Ossory, his elder brother, had less
vivacity but more intellect, and possessed a liberal, honest nature, and an heroic character.
His poetry and his fairy tales are forgotten; but his 'Memoirs of the Count de Grammont' is
a work which combines the vivacity of a French writer with the truth of an English historian.

Ormond Yard, St. James's Square, was the London residence of the Duke of Ormond: the garden
wall of Ormond House took up the greater part of York Street: the Hamilton family had a commodious
house in the same courtly neighbourhood; and the cousins mingled continually. Here persons
of the greatest distinction constantly met; and here the 'Chevalier de Grammont,' as he was
still called, was received in a manner suitable to his rank and style; and soon regretted that
he had passed so much time in other places; for, after he once knew the charming Hamiltons,
he wished for no other friends.

There were three courts at that time in the capital; that at Whitehall, in the king's apartments;
that in the queen's, in the same palace; and that of Henrietta Maria, the Queen-Mother, as
she was styled, at Somerset House. Charles's was pre-eminent in immorality, and in the daily
outrage of all decency; that of the unworthy widow of Charles I. was just bordering on impropriety;
that of Katherine of Braganza was still decorous, though not irreproachable. Pepys describes
her as having a modest, innocent look, among all the demireps with whom she was forced to associate.
His eyes were riveted on this fair form; he had heard, but never till then seen her, whom all
the world consented to call 'La Belle Hamilton,' and his heart instantly echoed the expression.
Sir Peter Lely was at that time painting the Beauties of the Court, and had done full justice
to the intellectual and yet innocent face that riveted De Grammont. He had depicted her with
her rich dark hair, of which a tendril or two fell on her ivory forehead, adorned at the back
with large pearls, under which a gauze-like texture was gathered up, falling over the fair
shoulders like a veil: a full corsage, bound by a light band either of ribbon or of gold lace,
confining, with a large jewel or button, the sleeve on the shoulder, disguised somewhat the
exquisite shape. A frill of fine cambric set off, whilst in whiteness it scarce rivalled, the
shoulder and neck.

The features of this exquisite face are accurately described by De Grammont, as Sir Peter has
painted them. 'The mouth does not smile, but seems ready to break out into a smile. Nothing
is sleepy, but everything is soft, sweet, and innocent in that face so beautiful and so beloved.'

Whilst the colours were fresh on Lely's palettes, James Duke of York, that profligate who aped
the saint, saw it, and henceforth paid his court to the original, but was repelled with fearless
hauteur. The dissolute nobles of the court followed his example, even to the 'lady-killer'
Jermyn, but in vain. Unhappily for La Belle Hamilton, she became sensible to the attractions
of De Grammont, whom she eventually married.

Miss Hamilton, intelligent as she was, lent herself to the fashion of the day, and delighted
in practical jokes and tricks. At the splendid masquerade given by the queen she continued
to plague her cousin, Lady Muskerry; to confuse and expose a stupid court beauty, a Miss Blaque;
and at the same time to produce on the Count de Grammont a still more powerful effect than
even her charms had done. Her success in hoaxing--which we should now think both perilous and
indelicate--seems to have only riveted the chain, which was drawn around him more strongly.

His friend, or rather his foe, St. Evremond, tried in vain to discourage the Chevalier from
his new passion. The former tutor was, it appeared, jealous of its influence, and hurt that
De Grammont was now seldom at his house.

De Grammont's answer to his remonstrances was very characteristic. 'My poor philosopher,' he
cried, 'you understand Latin well--you can make good verses--you are acquainted with the nature
of the stars in the firmament--but you are wholly ignorant of the luminaries in the terrestrial
globe.'

He then announced his intention to persevere, notwithstanding all the obstacles which attached
to the suit of a man without either fortune or character, who had been exiled from his own
country, and whose chief mode of livelihood was dependent on the gaming-table.

One can scarcely read of the infatuation of La Belle Hamilton without a sigh. During a period
of six years their marriage was in contemplation only; and De Grammont seems to have trifled
inexcusably with the feelings of this once gay and ever lovely girl. It was not for want of
means that De Grammont thus delayed the fulfilment of his engagement. Charles II., inexcusably
lavish, gave him a pension of 1500 Jacobuses: it was to be paid to him until he should be restored
to the favour of his own king. The fact was that De Grammont contributed to the pleasures of
the court, and pleasure was the household deity of Whitehall. Sometimes, in those days of careless
gaiety, there were promenades in Spring Gardens, or the Mall; sometimes the court beauties
sallied forth on horseback; at other times there were shows on the river, which then washed
the very foundations of Whitehall. There in the summer evenings, when it was too hot and dusty
to walk, old Thames might be seen covered with little boats, filled with court and city beauties,
attending the royal barges; collations, music, and fireworks completed the scene, and De Grammont
always contrived some surprise--some gallant show: once a concert of vocal and instrumental
music, which he had privately brought from Paris, struck up unexpectedly: another time a collation
brought from the gay capital surpassed that supplied by the king. Then the Chevalier, finding
that coaches with glass windows, lately introduced, displeased the ladies, because their charms
were only partially seen in them, sent for the most elegant and superb calèche ever seen: it
came after a month's journey, and was presented by De Grammont to the king. It was a royal
present in price, for it had cost two thousand livres. The famous dispute between Lady Castlemaine
and Miss Stuart, afterwards Duchess of Richmond, arose about this calèche. The Queen and the
Duchess of York appeared first in it in Hyde Park, which had then recently been fenced in with
brick. Lady Castlemaine thought that the calèche showed off a fine figure better than the coach;
Miss Stuart was of the same opinion. Both these grown-up babies wished to have the coach on
the same day, but Miss Stuart prevailed.

The Queen condescended to laugh at the quarrels of these two foolish women, and complimented
the Chevalier de Grammont on his present. 'But how is it,' she asked, 'that you do not even
keep a footman, and that one of the common runners in the street lights you home with a link?'

'Madame,' he answered, 'the Chevalier de Grammont hates pomp: my link-boy is faithful and brave.'
Then he told the Queen that he saw she was unacquainted with the nation of link-boys, and related
how that he had, at one time, had one hundred and sixty around his chair at night, and people
had asked 'whose funeral it was? As for the parade of coaches and footmen,' he added, 'I despise
it. I have sometimes had five or six valets-de-chambre, without a single footman in livery
except my chaplain.'

'How!' cried the Queen, laughing, 'a chaplain in livery? surely he was not a priest.'

'Pardon, Madame, a priest, and the best dancer in the world of the Biscayan gig.'

'Chevalier,' said the king, 'tell us the history of your chaplain Poussatin.'

Then De Grammont related how, when he was with the great Condé, after the campaign of Catalonia,
he had seen among a company of Catalans, a priest in a little black jacket, skipping and frisking:
how Condé was charmed, and how they recognized in him a Frenchman, and how he offered himself
to De Grammont for his chaplain. De Grammont had not much need, he said, for a chaplain in
his house, but he took the priest, who had afterwards the honour of dancing before Anne of
Austria, in Paris.

Suitor after suitor interfered with De Grammont's at last honourable address to La Belle Hamilton.
At length an incident occurred which had very nearly separated them for ever. Philibert de
Grammont was recalled to Paris by Louis XIV. He forgot, Frenchman-like, all his engagements
to Miss Hamilton, and hurried off. He had reached Dover, when her two brothers rode up after
him. 'Chevalier de Grammont,' they said, 'have you forgotten nothing in London?'

'I beg your pardon,' he answered, 'I forgot to marry your sister.' It is said that this story
suggested to Molière the idea of Le Mariage forcé. They were, however, married.

In 1669 La Belle Hamilton, after giving birth to a child, went to reside in France. Charles
II., who thought she would pass for a handsome woman in France, recommended her to his sister,
Henrietta Duchess of Orleans, and begged her to be kind to her.

Henceforth the Chevalier De Grammont and his wife figured at Versailles, where the Countess
de Grammont was appointed Dame du Palais. Her career was less brilliant than in England. The
French ladies deemed her haughty and old, and even termed her une Anglaise insupportable.

She had certainly too much virtue, and perhaps too much beauty still, for the Parisian ladies
of fashion at that period to admire her.

She endeavoured in vain, to reclaim her libertine husband, and to call him to a sense of his
situation when he was on his death-bed. Louis XIV. sent the Marquis de Dangeau to convert him,
and to talk to him on a subject little thought of by De Grammont--the world to come. After
the Marquis had been talking for some time, De Grammont turned to his wife and said, 'Countess,
if you don't look to it, Dangeau will juggle you out of my conversion.' St. Evremond said he
would gladly die to go off with so successful a bon-mot.

He became however, in time, serious, if not devout or penitent. The report was contradicted
by Ninon de l'Enclos. The Chevalier was then eighty-six years of age; 'nevertheless he was,'
Ninon says, 'so young, that I think him as lively as when he hated sick people, and loved them
after they had recovered their health;' a trait very descriptive of a man whose good-nature
was always on the surface, but whose selfishness was deep as that of most wits and beaux, who
are spoiled by the world, and who, in return, distrust and deceive the spoilers. With this
long life of eighty-six years, endowed as De Grammont was with elasticity of spirits, good
fortune, considerable talent, an excellent position, a wit that never ceased to flow in a clear
current; with all these advantages, what might he not have been to society, had his energy
been well applied, his wit innocent, his talents employed worthily, and his heart as sure to
stand muster as his manners?

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: M. de Grammont visited England during the Protectorate. His second visit, after
being forbidden the court by Louis XIV., was in 1662.]

[Footnote 9: The Earl of Dorset married Elizabeth, widow of Charles Berkeley, Earl of Falmouth,
and daughter of Hervey Bagot, Esq., of Pipe Hall, Warwickshire, who died without issue. He
married, 7th March, 1684-5, Lady Mary Compton, daughter of James Earl of Northampton.]

[Footnote 10: Lord Rochester succeeded to the Earldom in 1659.

Let us be wise, boys, here's a fool coming, said a sensible man, when he saw Beau Nash's splendid
carriage draw up to the door. Is a beau a fool? Is a sharper a fool? Was Bonaparte a fool?
If you reply 'no' to the last two questions, you must give the same answer to the first. A
beau is a fox, but not a fool--a very clever fellow, who, knowing the weakness of his brothers
and sisters in the world, takes advantage of it to make himself a fame and a fortune. Nash,
the son of a glass-merchant--Brummell, the hopeful of a small shopkeeper--became the intimates
of princes, dukes, and fashionables; were petty kings of Vanity Fair, and were honoured by
their subjects. In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed man is king; in the realm of folly,
the sharper is a monarch. The only proviso is, that the cheat come not within the jurisdiction
of the law. Such a cheat is the beau or dandy, or fine gentleman, who imposes on his public
by his clothes and appearance. Bonâ-fide monarchs have done as much: Louis XIV. won himself
the title of Le Grand Monarque by his manners, his dress, and his vanity. Fielding, Nash, and
Brummell did nothing more. It is not a question whether such roads to eminence be contemptible
or not, but whether their adoption in one station of life be more so than in another. Was Brummell
a whit more contemptible than 'Wales?' Or is John Thomas, the pride and glory of the 'Domestics'
Free-and-Easy,' whose whiskers, figure, face, and manner are all superb, one atom more ridiculous
than your recognized beau? I trow not. What right, then, has your beau to a place among wits?
I fancy Chesterfield would be much disgusted at seeing his name side by side with that of Nash
in this volume; yet Chesterfield had no objection, when at Bath, to do homage to the king of
that city, and may have prided himself on exchanging pinches from diamond-set snuff-boxes with
that superb gold-laced dignitary in the Pump-room. Certainly, people who thought little of
Philip Dormer Stanhope, thought a great deal of the glass-merchant's reprobate son when he
was in power, and submitted without a murmur to his impertinences. The fact is, that the beaux
and the wits are more intimately connected than the latter would care to own: the wits have
all been, or aspired to be, beaux, and beaux have had their fair share of wit; both lived for
the same purpose--to shine in society: both used the same means--coats and bon-mots. The only
distinction is, that the garments of the beaux were better, and their sayings not so good as
those of the wits; while the conversation of the wits was better, and their apparel not so
striking as those of the beaux. So, my Lord Chesterfield, who prided yourself quite as much
on being a fine gentleman as on being a fine wit, you cannot complain at your proximity to
Mr. Nash and others who were fine gentlemen, and would have been fine wits if they could.

Robert Fielding was, perhaps, the least of the beaux; but then, to make up for this, he belonged
to a noble family: he married a duchess, and, what is more, he beat her. Surely in the kingdom
of fools such a man is not to be despised. You may be sure he did not think he was, for was
he not made the subject of two papers in 'The Tatler,' and what more could such a man desire?

His father was a Suffolk squire, claiming relationship with the Earls of Denbigh, and therefore,
with the Hapsburgs, from whom the Beau and the Emperors of Austria had the common honour of
being descended. Perhaps neither of them had sufficient sense to be proud of the greatest intellectual
ornament of their race, the author of 'Tom Jones;' but as our hero was dead before the humourist
was born, it is not fair to conjecture what he might have thought on the subject.

It does not appear that very much is known of this great gem of the race of Hapsburg. He had
the misfortune to be very handsome, and the folly to think that his face would be his fortune:
it certainly stood him in good stead at times, but it also brought him into a lamentable dilemma.

His father was not rich, and sent his son to the Temple to study laws which he was only fitted
to break. The young Adonis had sense enough to see that destiny did not beckon him to fame
in the gloom of a musty law court, and removed a little further up to the Thames, and the more
fashionable region of Scotland Yard. Here, where now Z 300 repairs to report his investigations
to a Commissioner, the young dandies of Charles II.'s day strutted in gay doublets, swore hasty
oaths of choice invention, smoked the true Tobago from huge pipe-bowls, and ogled the fair
but not too bashful dames who passed to and fro in their chariots. The court took its name
from the royalties of Scotland, who, when they visited the South, were there lodged, as being
conveniently near to Whitehall Palace. It is odd enough that the three architects, Inigo Jones,
Vanbrugh, and Wren, all lived in this yard.

It was not to be supposed that a man who could so well appreciate a handsome face and well-cut
doublet as Charles II. should long overlook his neighbour, Mr. Robert Fielding, and in due
course the Beau, who had no other diploma, found himself in the honourable position of a justice
of the peace.

The emoluments of this office enabled Orlando, as 'The Tatler' calls him, to shine forth in
all his glory. With an enviable indifference to the future, he launched out into an expenditure
which alone would have made him popular in a country where the heaviest purse makes the greatest
gentleman. His lacqueys were arrayed in the brightest yellow coats with black sashes--the Hapsburg
colours. He had a carriage, of course, but, like Sheridan's, it was hired, though drawn by
his own horses. This carriage was described as being shaped like a sea-shell; and 'the Tatler'
calls it 'an open tumbril of less size than ordinary, to show the largeness of his limbs and
the grandeur of his personage to the best advantage.' The said limbs were Fielding's especial
pride: he gloried in the strength of his leg and arm; and when he walked down the street, he
was followed by an admiring crowd, whom he treated with as much haughtiness as if he had been
the emperor himself, instead of his cousin five hundred times removed. He used his strength
to good or bad purpose, and was a redoubted fighter and bully, though good-natured withal.
In the Mall, as he strutted, he was the cynosure of all female eyes. His dress had all the
elegance of which the graceful costume of that period was capable, though Fielding did not,
like Brummell, understand the delicacy of a quiet, but studied style. Those were simpler, somewhat
more honest days. It was not necessary for a man to cloak his vices, nor be ashamed of his
cloak. The beau then-a-day openly and arrogantly gloried in the grandeur of his attire; and
bragging was a part of his character. Fielding was made by his tailor; Brummell made his tailor:
the only point in common to both was that neither of them paid the tailor's bill.

The fine gentleman, under the Stuarts, was fine only in his lace and his velvet doublet; his
language was coarse, his manners coarser, his vices the coarsest of all. No wonder when the
king himself could get so drunk with Sedley and Buckhurst as to be unable to give an audience
appointed for; and when the chief fun of his two companions was to divest themselves of all
the habiliments which civilization has had the ill taste to make necessary, and in that state
run about the streets.

'Orlando' wore the finest ruffles and the heaviest sword; his wig was combed to perfection;
and in his pocket he carried a little comb with which to arrange it from time to time, even
as the dandy of to-day pulls out his whiskers or curls his moustache. Such a man could not
be passed over; and accordingly he numbered half the officers and gallants of the town among
his intimates. He drank, swore, and swaggered, and the snobs of the day proclaimed him a 'complete
gentleman.'

His impudence, however, was not always tolerated. In the playhouses of the day, it was the
fashion for some of the spectators to stand upon the stage, and the places in that position
were chiefly occupied by young gallants. The ladies came most in masques: but this did not
prevent Master Fielding from making his remarks very freely, and in no very refined strain
to them. The modest damsels, whom Pope has described,

    'The fair sat pouting at the courtier's play,
     And not a mask went unimproved away:
     The modest fan was lifted up no more,
     And virgins smiled at what they blushed before,'

were not too coy to be pleased with the fops' attentions, and replied in like strain. The players
were unheeded; the audience laughed at the improvised and natural wit, when carefully prepared
dialogues failed to fix their attention. The actors were disgusted, and, in spite of Master
Fielding's herculean strength, kicked him off the stage, with a warning not to come again.

The rôle of a beau is expensive to keep up; and our justice of the peace could not, like Nash,
double his income by gaming. He soon got deeply into debt, as every celebrated dresser has
done. The old story, not new even in those days, was enacted and the brilliant Adonis had to
keep watch and ward against tailors and bailiffs. On one occasion they had nearly caught him;
but his legs being lengthy, he gave them fair sport as far as St. James's Palace, where the
officers on guard rushed out to save their pet, and drove off the myrmidons of the law at the
point of the sword.

But debts do not pay themselves, nor die, and Orlando with all his strength and prowess could
not long keep off the constable. Evil days gloomed at no very great distance before him, and
the fear of a sponging-house and debtors' prison compelled him to turn his handsome person
to account. Had he not broken a hundred hearts already? had he not charmed a thousand pairs
of beaming eyes? was there not one owner of one pair who was also possessed of a pretty fortune?
Who should have the honour of being the wife of such an Adonis? who, indeed, but she who could
pay highest for it; and who could pay with a handsome income but a well-dowered widow? A widow
it must be--a widow it should be. Noble indeed was the sentiment which inspired this great
man to sacrifice himself on the altar of Hymen for the good of his creditors. Ye young men
in the Guards, who do this kind of thing every day--that is, every day that you can meet with
a widow with the proper qualifications--take warning by the lamentable history of Mr. Robert
Fielding, and never trust to 'third parties.'

A widow was found, fat, fair, and forty--and oh!--charm greater far than all the rest--with
a fortune of sixty thousand pounds; this was a Mrs. Deleau, who lived at Whaddon in Surrey,
and at Copthall-court in London. Nothing could be more charming; and the only obstacle was
the absence of all acquaintance between the parties--for, of course, it was impossible for
any widow, whatever her attractions, to be insensible to those of Robert Fielding. Under these
circumstances, the Beau looked about for an agent, and found one in the person of a Mrs. Villars,
hairdresser to the widow. He offered this person a handsome douceur in case of success, and
she was to undertake that the lady should meet the gentleman in the most unpremeditated manner.
Various schemes were resorted to: with the alias, for he was not above an alias, of Major-General
Villars, the Beau called at the widow's country house, and was permitted to see the gardens.
At a window he espied a lady, whom he took to be the object of his pursuit--bowed to her majestically,
and went away, persuaded he must have made an impression. But, whether the widow was wiser
than wearers of weeds have the reputation of being, or whether the agent had really no power
in the matter, the meeting never came on.

The hairdresser naturally grew anxious, the douceur was too good to be lost, and as the widow
could not be had, some one must be supplied in her place.

One day while the Beau was sitting in his splendid 'night-gown,' as the morning-dress of gentlemen
was then called, two ladies were ushered into his august presence. He had been warned of this
visit, and was prepared to receive the yielding widow. The one, of course, was the hairdresser,
the other a young, pretty, and apparently modest creature, who blushed much--though with some
difficulty--at the trying position in which she found herself. The Beau, delighted, did his
best to reassure her. He flung himself at her feet, swore, with oaths more fashionable than
delicate, that she was the only woman he ever loved, and prevailed on the widow so far as to
induce her to 'call again to-morrow.'

Of course she came, and Adonis was in heaven. He wrote little poems to her--for, as a gallant,
he could of course make verses--serenaded her through an Italian donna, invited her to suppers,
at which the delicacies of the season were served without regard to the purveyor's account,
and to which, coy as she was, she consented to come, and clenched the engagement with a ring,
on which was the motto, 'Tibi Soli.' Nay, the Beau had been educated, and had some knowledge
of 'the tongues,' so that he added to these attentions the further one of a song or two translated
from the Greek. The widow ought to have been pleased, and was. One thing only she stipulated,
namely, that the marriage should be private, lest her relations should forbid the banns.

Having brought her so far, it was not likely that the fortune-hunter would stick at such a
mere trifle, and accordingly an entertainment was got up at the Beau's own rooms, a supper
suitable to the rank and wealth of the widow, provided by some obligingly credulous tradesman;
a priest found--for, be it premised, our hero had changed so much of his religion as he had
to change in the reign of James II., when Romanism was not only fashionable, but a sure road
to fortune--and the mutually satisfied couple swore to love, honour, and obey one another till
death them should part.

The next morning, however, the widow left the gentleman's lodgings, on the pretext that it
was injudicious for her friends to know of their union at present, and continued to visit her
sposo and sup somewhat amply at his chambers from time to time. We can imagine the anxiety
Orlando now felt for a cheque book at the heiress's bankers, and the many insinuations he may
have delicately made, touching ways and means. We can fancy the artful excuses with which these
hints were put aside by his attached wife. But the dupe was still in happy ignorance of the
trick played on him, and for a time such ignorance was bliss. It must have been trying to him
to be called on by Mrs. Villars for the promised douceur, but he consoled himself with the
pleasures of hope.

Unfortunately, however, he had formed the acquaintance of a woman of a very different reputation
to the real Mrs. Deleau, and the intimacy which ensued was fatal to him.

When Charles II. was wandering abroad, he was joined, among others, by a Mr. and Mrs. Palmer.
The husband was a stanch old Romanist, with the qualities which usually accompanied that faith
in those days--little respect for morality, and a good deal of bigotry. In later days he was
one of the victims suspected of the Titus Oates plot, but escaped, and eventually died in Wales,
in 1705, after having been James II.'s ambassador to Rome. This, in a few words, is the history
of that Roger Palmer, afterwards Lord Castlemaine, who by some is said to have sold his wife--not
at Smithfield, but at Whitehall--to his Majesty King Charles II., for the sum of one peerage--an
Irish one, taken on consideration: by others, is alleged to have been so indignant with the
king as to have remained for some time far from court; and so disgusted with his elevation
to the peerage as scarcely to assume his title; and this last is the most authenticated version
of the matter.

Mrs. Palmer belonged to one of the oldest families in England, and traced her descent to Pagan
de Villiers, in the days of William Rufus, and a good deal farther among the nobles of Normandy.
She was the daughter of William, second Viscount Grandison, and rejoiced in the appropriate
name of Barbara, for she could be savage occasionally. She was very beautiful, and very wicked,
and soon became Charles's mistress. On the Restoration she joined the king in England, and
when the poor neglected queen came over was foisted upon her as a bedchamber-woman, in spite
of all the objections of that ill used wife. It was necessary to this end that she should be
the wife of a peer; and her husband accepted the title of Earl of Castlemaine, well knowing
to what he owed it. Pepys, who admired Lady Castlemaine more than any woman in England, describes
the husband and wife meeting at Whitehall with a cold ceremonial bow: yet the husband was there.
A quarrel between the two, strangely enough on the score of religion, her ladyship insisting
that her child should be christened by a Protestant clergyman, while his lordship insisted
on the ceremony being performed by a Romish priest, brought about a separation, and from that
time Lady Castlemaine, lodged in Whitehall, began her empire over the king of England. That
man, 'who never said a foolish thing, and never did a wise one,' was the slave of this imperious
and most impudent of women. She forced him to settle on her an immense fortune, much of which
she squandered at the basset-table, often staking a thousand pounds at a time, and sometimes
losing fifteen thousand pounds a-night.

Nor did her wickedness end here. We have some pity for one, who, like La Vallière, could be
attracted by the attentions of a handsome, fascinating prince: we pity though we blame. But
Lady Castlemaine was vicious to the very marrow: not content with a king's favour, she courted
herself the young gallant of the town. Quarrels ensued between Charles and his mistress, in
which the latter invariably came off victorious, owing to her indomitable temper; and the scenes
recorded by De Grammont--when she threatened to burn down Whitehall, and tear her children
in pieces--are too disgraceful for insertion. She forced the reprobate monarch to consent to
all her extortionate demands: rifled the nation's pockets as well as his own; and at every
fresh difference, forced Charles to give her some new pension. An intrigue with Jermyn, discovered
and objected to by the King, brought on a fresh and more serious difference, which was only
patched up by a patent of the Duchy of Cleveland. The Duchess of Cleveland was even worse than
the Countess of Castlemaine. Abandoned in time by Charles, and detested by all people of any
decent feeling, she consoled herself for the loss of a real king by taking up with a stage
one. Hart and Goodman, the actors, were successively her cavalieri; the former had been a captain
in the army; the latter a student at Cambridge. Both were men of the coarsest minds and most
depraved lives. Goodman, in after-years was so reduced that, finding, as Sheridan advised his
son to do, a pair of pistols handy, a horse saddled, and Hounslow Heath not a hundred miles
distance, he took to the pleasant and profitable pastime of which Dick Turpin is the patron
saint. He was all but hanged for his daring robberies, but unfortunately not quite so. He lived
to suffer such indigence, that he and another rascal had but one under-garment between them,
and entered into a compact that one should lie in bed while the other wore the article in question.
Naturally enough the two fell out in time, and the end of Goodman--sad misnomer--was worse
than his beginning: such was the gallant whom the imperious Duchess of Cleveland vouchsafed
to honour.

The life of the once beautiful Barbara Villiers grew daily more and more depraved: at the age
of thirty she retired to Paris, shunned and disgraced. After numerous intrigues abroad and
at home, she put the crowning point to her follies by falling in love with the handsome Fielding,
when she herself numbered sixty-five summers.

Whether the Beau still thought of fortune, or whether having once tried matrimony, he was so
enchanted with it as to make it his cacoëthes, does not appear: the legend explains not for
what reason he married the antiquated beauty only three weeks after he had been united to the
supposed widow. For a time he wavered between the two, but that time was short: the widow discovered
his second marriage, claimed him, and in so doing revealed the well-kept secret that she was
not a widow; indeed, not even the relict of John Deleau, Esq., of Whaddon, but a wretched adventurer
of the name of Mary Wadsworth, who had shared with Mrs. Villars the plunder of the trick. The
Beau tried to preserve his dignity, and throw over his duper, but in vain. The first wife reported
the state of affairs to the second: and the duchess, who had been shamefully treated by Master
Fielding, was only too glad of an opportunity to get rid of him. She offered Mary Wadsworth
a pension of £100 a year, and a sum of £200 in ready money, to prove the previous marriage.
The case came on, and Beau Fielding had the honour of playing a part in a famous state trial.

With his usual impudence he undertook to defend himself at the Old Bailey, and hatched up some
old story to prove that the first wife was married at the time of their union to one Brady;
but the plea fell to the ground, and the fine gentleman was sentenced to be burned in the hand.
His interest in certain quarters saved him this ignominious punishment which would, doubtless,
have spoiled a limb of which he was particularly proud. He was pardoned: the real widow married
a far more honourable gentleman, in spite of the unenviable notoriety she had acquired; the
sham one was somehow quieted, and the duchess died some four years later, the more peacefully
for being rid of her tyrannical mate.

Thus ended a petty scandal of the day, in which all the parties were so disreputable that no
one could feel any sympathy for a single one of them. How the dupe himself ended is not known.
The last days of fops and beaux are never glorious. Brummell died in slovenly penury; Nash
in contempt. Fielding lapsed into the dimmest obscurity; and as far as evidence goes, there
is as little certainty about his death as of that of the Wandering Jew. Let us hope that he
is not still alive: though his friends seemed to have cared little whether he were so or not,
to judge from a couple of verses written by one of them:--

    'If Fielding is dead,
       And rests under this stone,
     Then he is not alive
       You may bet two to one.

I suppose that, long before the building of Babel, man discovered that he was an associative
animal, with the universal motto, 'L'union c'est la force;' and that association, to be of
any use, requires talk. A history of celebrated associations, from the building society just
mentioned down to the thousands which are represented by an office, a secretary, and a brass-plate,
in the present day, would give a curious scheme of the natural tendencies of man; while the
story of their failures--and how many have not failed, sooner or later!--would be a pretty
moral lesson to your anthropolaters who Babelize now-a-days, and believe there is nothing which
a company with capital cannot achieve. I wonder what object there is, that two men can possibly
agree in desiring, and which it takes more than one to attain, for which an association of
some kind has not been formed at some time or other, since first the swarthy savage learned
that it was necessary to unite to kill the lion which infested the neighbourhood! Alack for
human nature! I fear by far the larger proportion of the objects of associations would be found
rather evil than good, and, certes, nearly all of them might be ranged under two heads, according
as the passions of hate or desire found a common object in several hearts. Gain on the one
hand--destruction on the other--have been the chief motives of clubbing in all time.

A delightful exception is to be found, though--to wit, in associations for the purpose of talking.
I do not refer to parliaments and philosophical academies, but to those companies which have
been formed for the sole purpose of mutual entertainment by interchange of thought.

Now, will any kind reader oblige me with a derivation of the word 'Club?' I doubt if it is
easy to discover. But one thing is certain, whatever its origin, it is, in its present sense,
purely English in idea and in existence. Dean Trench points this out, and, noting the fact
that no other nation (he might have excepted the Chinese) has any word to express this kind
of association, he has, with very pardonable natural pride, but unpardonably bad logic, inferred
that the English are the most sociable people in the world. The contrary is true; nay, was
true, even in the days of Addison, Swift, Steele--even in the days of Johnson, Walpole, Selwyn;
ay, at all time since we have been a nation. The fact is, we are not the most sociable, but
the most associative race; and the establishment of clubs is a proof of it. We cannot, and
never could, talk freely, comfortably, and generally, without a company for talking. Conversation
has always been with us as much a business as railroad-making, or what not. It has always demanded
certain accessories, certain condiments, certain stimulants to work it up to the proper pitch.
'We all know' we are the cleverest and wittiest people under the sun; but then our wit has
been stereotyped. France has no 'Joe Miller;' for a bon-mot there, however good, is only appreciated
historically. Our wit is printed, not spoken; our best wits behind an inkhorn have sometimes
been the veriest logs in society. On the Continent clubs were not called for, because society
itself was the arena of conversation. In this country, on the other hand, a man could only
chat when at his ease; could only be at his ease among those who agreed with him on the main
points of religion and politics, and even then wanted the aid of a bottle to make him comfortable.
Our want of sociability was the cause of our clubbing, and therefore the word 'club' is purely
English.

This was never so much the case as after the Restoration. Religion and politics never ran higher
than when a monarch, who is said to have died a papist because he had no religion at all during
his life, was brought back to supplant a furious puritanical Protectorate. Then, indeed, it
was difficult for men of opposite parties to meet without bickering; and society demanded separate
meeting-places for those who differed. The origin of clubs in this country is to be traced
to two causes--the vehemence of religious and political partisanship, and the establishment
of coffee-houses. These certainly gave the first idea of clubbery. The taverns which preceded
them had given the English a zest for public life in a small way. 'The Mermaid' was, virtually,
a club of wits long before the first real club was opened, and, like the clubs of the eighteenth
century, it had its presiding geniuses in Shakespeare and Rare Ben.

The coffee-houses introduced somewhat more refinement and less exclusiveness. The oldest of
these was the 'Grecian.' 'One Constantine, a Grecian,' advertised in 'The Intelligencer' of
January 23rd, 1664-5, that 'the right coffee bery or chocolate,' might be had of him 'as cheap
and as good as is anywhere to be had for money,' and soon after began to sell the said 'coffee
bery' in small cups at his own establishment in Devereux Court, Strand. Some two years later
we have news of 'Will's,' the most famous, perhaps, of the coffee-houses. Here Dryden held
forth with pedantic vanity: and here was laid the first germ of that critical acumen which
has since become a distinguishing feature in English literature. Then, in the City, one Garraway,
of Exchange Alley, first sold 'tea in leaf and drink, made according to the directions of the
most knowing, and travellers into those eastern countries;' and thus established the well-known
'Garraway's,' whither, in Defoe's day, 'foreign banquiers' and even ministers resorted, to
drink the said beverage. 'Robin's,' 'Jonathan's,' and many another, were all opened about this
time, and the rage for coffee-house life became general throughout the country.

In these places the company was of course of all classes and colours; but, as the conversation
was general, there was naturally at first a good deal of squabbling, till, for the sake of
peace and comfort, a man chose his place of resort according to his political principles; and
a little later there were regular Whig and Tory coffee-houses. Thus, in Anne's day, 'The Cocoa-nut,'
in St. James's Street, was reserved for Jacobites, while none but Whigs frequented 'The St
James's.' Still there was not sufficient exclusiveness; and as early as in Charles II.'s reign
men of peculiar opinions began to appropriate certain coffee-houses at certain hours, and to
exclude from them all but approved members. Hence the origin of clubs.

The October Club was one of the earliest, being composed of some hundred and fifty rank Tories,
chiefly country members of Parliament. They met at the 'Bell,' in King Street, Westminster,
that street in which Spenser starved, and Dryden's brother kept a grocer's shop. A portrait
of Queen Anne, by Dahl, hung in the club-room. This and the Kit-kat, the great Whig club, were
chiefly reserved for politics; but the fashion of clubbing having once come in, it was soon
followed by people of all fancies. No reader of the 'Spectator' can fail to remember the ridicule
to which this was turned by descriptions of imaginary clubs for which the qualifications were
absurd, and of which the business, on meeting, was preposterous nonsense of some kind. The
idea of such fraternities, as the Club of Fat Men, the Ugly Club, the Sheromp Club, the Everlasting
Club, the Sighing Club, the Amorous Club, and others, could only have been suggested by real
clubs almost as ridiculous. The names, too, were almost as fantastical as those of the taverns
in the previous century, which counted 'The Devil,' and 'The Heaven and Hell,' among their
numbers. Many derived their titles from the standing dishes preferred at supper, the Beef-steak
and the Kit-kat (a sort of mutton-pie), for instance.

The Beef-steak Club, still in existence, was one of the most famous established in Anne's reign.
It had at that time less of a political than a jovial character. Nothing but that excellent
British fare, from which it took its name, was, at first, served at the supper-table. It was
an assemblage of wits of every station, and very jovial were they supposed to be when the juicy
dish had been discussed. Early in the century, Estcourt, the actor, was made provider to this
club, and wore a golden gridiron as a badge of office, and is thus alluded to in Dr. King's
'Art of Cookery' (1709):--

    'He that of honour, wit, and mirth partakes,
     May be a fit companion o'er beef-stakes;
     His name may be to future times enrolled
     In Estcourt's book, whose gridiron's framed of gold.'

Estcourt was one of the best mimics of the day, and a keen satirist to boot; in fact he seems
to have owed much of his success on the stage to his power of imitation, for while his own
manner was inferior, he could at pleasure copy exactly that of any celebrated actor. He would
be a player. At fifteen he ran away from home, and joining a strolling company, acted Roxana
in woman's clothes: his friends pursued him, and, changing his dress for that of a girl of
the time, he tried to escape them, but in vain. The histrionic youth was captured, and bound
apprentice in London town; the 'seven long years' of which did not cure him of the itch for
acting. But he was too good a wit for the stage, and amused himself, though not always his
audience, by interspersing his part with his own remarks. The great took him by the hand, and
old Marlborough especially patronized him: he wrote a burlesque of the Italian operas then
beginning to be in vogue; and died in 1712-13. Estcourt was not the only actor belonging to
the Beef-steak, nor even the only one who had concealed his sex under emergency; Peg Woffington,
who had made as good a boy as he had done a girl, was afterwards a member of this club.

In later years the beef-steak was cooked in a room at the top of Covent Garden Theatre, and
counted many a celebrated wit among those who sat around its cheery dish. Wilkes the blasphemer,
Churchill, and Lord Sandwich, were all members of it at the same time. Of the last, Walpole
gives us information in 1763 at the time of Wilkes's duel with Martin in Hyde Park. He tells
us that at the Beef-steak Club Lord Sandwich talked so profusely, 'that he drove harlequins
out of the company.' To the honour of the club be it added, that his lordship was driven out
after the harlequins, and finally expelled: it is sincerely to be hoped that Wilkes was sent
after his lordship. This club is now represented by one held behind the Lyceum, with the thoroughly
British motto, 'Beef and Liberty:' the name was happily chosen and therefore imitated. In the
reign of George II. we meet with a 'Rump-steak, or Liberty Club;' and somehow steaks and liberty
seem to be the two ideas most intimately associated in the Britannic mind. Can any one explain it?

Other clubs there were under Anne,--political, critical, and hilarious--but the palm is undoubtedly
carried off by the glorious Kit-kat.

It is not every eating-house that is immortalized by a Pope, though Tennyson has sung 'The
Cock' with its 'plump head-waiter,' who, by the way, was mightily offended by the Laureate's
verses--or pretended to be so--and thought it 'a great liberty of Mr. ----, Mr. ----, what
is his name? to put respectable private characters into his books.' Pope, or some say Arbuthnot,
explained the etymology of this club's extraordinary title:--

    'Whence deathless Kit-kat took its name,
       Few critics can unriddle:
     Some say from pastrycook it came,
       And some from Cat and Fiddle. Some say that the pastry cook in Shire Lane, at whose house
it was held, was named Christopher Katt. Some one or other was certainly
celebrated for the manufacture of that forgotten delicacy, a mutton-pie,
which acquired the name of a Kit-kat.

    'A Kit-kat is a supper for a lord,'

says a comedy of 1700, and certes it afforded at this club evening nourishment for many a celebrated
noble profligate of the day. The supposed sign of the Cat and Fiddle (Kitt), gave another solution,
but after all, Pope's may be satisfactorily received.

The Kit-kat was, par excellence, the Whig Club of Queen Anne's time: it was established at
the beginning of the eighteenth century, and was then composed of thirty-nine members, among
whom were the Dukes of Marlborough, Devonshire, Grafton, Richmond, and Somerset. In later days
it numbered the greatest wits of the age, of whom anon.

This club was celebrated more than any for its toasts.

Now, if men must drink--and sure the vine was given us for use, I do not say for abuse--they
had better make it an occasion of friendly intercourse; nothing can be more degraded than the
solitary sanctimonious toping in which certain of our northern brethren are known to indulge.
They had better give to the quaffing of that rich gift, sent to be a medicine for the mind,
to raise us above the perpetual contemplation of worldly ills, as much of romance and elegance
as possible. It is the opener of the heart, the awakener of nobler feelings of generosity and
love, the banisher of all that is narrow, and sordid, and selfish; the herald of all that is
exalted in man. No wonder that the Greeks made a god of Bacchus, that the Hindu worshipped
the mellow Soma, and that there has been scarce a poet who has not sung its praise. There was
some beauty in the feasts of the Greeks, when the goblet was really wreathed with flowers;
and even the German student, dirty and drunken as he may be, removes half the stain from his
orgies with the rich harmony of his songs, and the hearty good-fellowship of his toasts. We
drink still, perhaps we shall always drink till the end of time, but all the romance of the
bowl is gone; the last trace of its beauty went with the frigid abandonment of the toast.

There was some excuse for wine when it brought out that now forgotten expression of good-will.
Many a feud was reconciled in the clinking of glasses; just as many another was begun when
the cup was drained too deeply. The first quarter of the last century saw the end of all the
social glories of the wassail in this country, and though men drank as much fifty years later,
all its poetry and romance had then disappeared.

It was still, however, the custom at that period to call on the name of some fair maiden, and
sing her praises over the cup as it passed. It was a point of honour for all the company to
join the health. Some beauties became celebrated for the number of their toasts; some even
standing toasts among certain sets. In the Kit-kat Club the custom was carried out by rule,
and every member was compelled to name a beauty, whose claims to the honour were then discussed,
and if her name was approved, a separate bowl was consecrated to her, and verses to her honour
engraved on it. Some of the most celebrated toasts had even their portraits hung in the club-room,
and it was no slight distinction to be the favourite of the Kit-kat. When only eight years
old, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu enjoyed this privilege. Her father, the Lord Dorchester, afterwards
Evelyn, Duke of Kingston, in a fit of caprice, proposed 'the pretty little child' as his toast.
The other members, who had never seen her, objected; the Peer sent for her, and there could
no longer be any question. The forward little girl was handed from knee to knee, petted, probably,
by Addison, Congreve, Vanbrugh, Garth, and many another famous wit. Another celebrated toast
of the Kit-kat, mentioned by Walpole, was Lady Molyneux, who, he says, died smoking a pipe.

This club was no less celebrated for its portraits than for the ladies it honoured. They, the
portraits, were all painted by Kneller, and all of one size, which thence got the name of Kit-kat;
they were hung round the club-room. Jacob Tonson, the publisher, was secretary to the club.

Defoe tells us the Kit-kat held the first rank among the clubs of the early part of the last
century, and certainly the names of its members comprise as many wits as we could expect to
find collected in one society.

Addison must have been past forty when he became a member of the Kit-kat. His 'Cato' had won
him the general applause of the Whig party, who could not allow so fine a writer to slip from
among them. He had long, too, played the courtier, and was 'quite a gentleman.' A place among
the exclusives of the Kit-kat was only the just reward of such attainments, and he had it.
I shall not be asked to give a notice of a man so universally known, and one who ranks rather
with the humorists than the wits. It will suffice to say, that it was not till after the publication
of the 'Spectator,' and some time after, that he joined our society.

Congreve I have chosen out of this set for a separate life, for this man happens to present
a very average sample of all their peculiarities. Congreve was a literary man, a poet, a wit,
a beau, and--what unhappily is quite as much to the purpose--a profligate. The only point he,
therefore, wanted in common with most of the members, was a title; but few of the titled members
combined as many good and bad qualities of the Kit-kat kind as did William Congreve.

Another dramatist, whose name seems to be inseparable from Congreve's, was that mixture of
bad and good taste--Vanbrugh. The author of 'The Relapse,' the most licentious play ever acted;--the
builder of Blenheim, the ugliest house ever erected, was a man of good family, and Walpole
counts him among those who 'wrote genteel comedy, because they lived in the best company.'
We doubt the logic of this; but if it hold, how is it that Van wrote plays which the best company,
even at that age, condemned, and neither good nor bad company can read in the present day without
being shocked? If the conversation of the Kit-kat was anything like that in this member's comedies,
it must have been highly edifying. However, I have no doubt Vanbrugh passed for a gentleman,
whatever his conversation, and he was certainly a wit, and apparently somewhat less licentious
in his morals than the rest. Yet what Pope said of his literature may be said, too, of some
acts of his life:--

    'How Van wants grace, who never wanted wit.'

And his quarrel with 'Queen Sarah' of Marlborough, though the duchess was by no means the most
agreeable woman in the world to deal with, is not much to Van's honour. When the nation voted
half a million to build that hideous mass of stone, the irregular and unsightly piling of which
caused Walpole to say that the architect 'had emptied quarries, rather than built houses,'
and Dr. Evans to write this epitaph for the builder--

    'Lie heavy on him, Earth, for he
     Laid many a heavy load on thee,'

Sarah haggled over 'seven-pence halfpenny a bushel;' Van retorted by calling her 'stupid and
troublesome,' and 'that wicked woman of Marlborough,' and after the Duke's death, wrote that
the Duke had left her 'twelve thousand pounds a-year to keep herself clean and go to law.'
Whether she employed any portion of it on the former object we do not pretend to say, but she
certainly spent as much as a miser could on litigation, Van himself being one of the unfortunates
she attacked in this way.

The events of Vanbrugh's life were varied. He began life in the army, but in 1697 gave the
stage 'The Relapse.' It was sufficiently successful to induce him to follow it up with the
'Provoked Wife,' one of the wittiest pieces produced in those days. Charles, Earl of Carlisle,
Deputy Earl Marshal, for whom he built Castle Howard, made him Clarencieux King-at-arms in
1704, and he was knighted by George I., 9th of September, 1714. In 1705 he joined Congreve
in the management of the Haymarket, which he himself built. George I. made him Comptroller-general
of the royal works. He had even an experience of the Bastille, where he was confined for sketching
fortifications in France. He died in 1726, with the reputation of a good wit, and a bad architect.
His conversation was, certainly, as light as his buildings were heavy.

Another member, almost as well known in his day, was Sir Samuel Garth, the physician, 'well-natured
Garth,' as Pope called him. He won his fame by his satire on the apothecaries in the shape
of a poem called 'The Dispensary.' When delivering the funeral oration over Dryden's body,
which had been so long unburied that its odour began to be disagreeable, he mounted a tub,
the top of which fell through and left the doctor in rather an awkward position. He gained
admission to the Kit-kat in consequence of a vehement eulogy on King William which he had introduced
into his Harveian oration in 1697.[13] It was Garth, too, who extemporized most of the verses
which were inscribed on the toasting-glasses of their club, so that he may, par excellence,
be considered the Kit-kat poet. He was the physician and friend of Marlborough, with whose
sword he was knighted by George I., who made him his physician in ordinary. Garth was a very
jovial man, and, some say, not a very religious one. Pope said he was as good a Christian as
ever lived, 'without knowing it.' He certainly had no affectation of piety, and if charitable
and good-natured acts could take a man to heaven, he deserved to go there. He had his doubts
about faith, and is said to have died a Romanist. This he did in 1719, and the poor and the
Kit-kat must both have felt his loss. He was perhaps more of a wit than a poet, although he
has been classed at times with Gray and Prior; he can scarcely take the same rank as other
verse-making doctors, such as Akenside, Darwin, and Armstrong. He seems to have been an active,
healthy man--perhaps too much so for a poet--for it is on record that he ran a match in the
Mall with the Duke of Grafton, and beat him. This was Arthur Maynwaring, a poet, too, in a
way, but more celebrated at this time for his liaison with Mrs. Oldfield, the famous but disreputable
actress, with whom he fell in love when he was forty years old, and whom he instructed in the
niceties of elocution, making her rehearse her parts to him in private. Maynwaring was born
in 1668, educated at Oxford, and destined for the bar, for which he studied. He began life
as a vehement Jacobite, and even supported that party in sundry pieces; but like some others,
he was easily converted, when, on coming to town, he found it more fashionable to be a Whig.
He held two or three posts under the Government, whose cause he now espoused: had the honour
of the dedication of 'The Tatler' to him by Steele, and died suddenly in 1712. He divided his
fortune between his sister and his mistress, Mrs. Oldfield, and his son by the latter. Mrs.
Oldfield must have grown rich in her sinful career, for she could afford, when ill, to refuse
to take her salary from the theatre, though entitled to it. She acted best in Vanbrugh's 'Provoked
Husband,' so well, in fact, that the manager gave her an extra fifty pounds by way of acknowledgment.

Poetising seems to have been as much a polite accomplishment of that age as letter-writing
was of a later, and a smattering of science is of the present day. Gentlemen tried to be poets,
and poets gentlemen. The consequence was, that both made fools of themselves. Among the poetasters
who belonged to the Kit-kat, we must mention Walsh, a country gentleman, member of Parliament,
and very tolerable scholar. He dabbled in odes, elegies, epitaphs, and all that small fry of
the muse which was then so plentiful. He wrote critical essays on Virgil, in which he tried
to make out that the shepherds in the days of the Roman poet were very well-bred gentlemen
of good education! He was a devoted admirer and friend of Dryden, and he encouraged Pope in
his earlier career so kindly that the little viper actually praised him! Walsh died somewhere
about 1709 in middle life.

We have not nearly done with the poets of the Kit-kat. A still smaller one than Walsh was Stepney,
who, like Garth, had begun life as a violent Tory and turned coat when he found his interest
lay the other way. He was well repaid, for from 1692 to 1706 he was sent on no less than eight
diplomatic missions, chiefly to German courts. He owed this preferment to the good luck of
having been a schoolfellow of Charles Montagu, afterwards Earl of Halifax. He died about 1707,
and had as grand a monument and epitaph in Westminster Abbey as if he had been a Milton or Dryden.

When you meet a dog trotting along the road, you naturally expect that his master is not far
off. In the same way, where you find a poet, still more a poetaster, there you may feel certain
you will light upon a patron. The Kit-kat was made up of Mæcenases and their humble servants;
and in the same club with Addison, Congreve, Vanbrugh, and the minor poets, we are not at all
surprised to find Sir Robert Walpole, the Duke of Somerset, Halifax, and Somers. Steele, Tickell,
Philips, Smith, and a crowd of lesser lights, raised my lord each one on a higher pinnacle;
and in return the powerful minister was not forgetful of the douceur which well-tuned verses
were accustomed to receive. He himself had tried to be a poet, and in 1703 wrote verses for
the toasting-cups of the Kit-kat. His lines to a Dowager Countess of ----, are good enough
to make us surprised that he never wrote any better. Take a specimen:--

    'Fair Queen of Fop-land in her royal style;
     Fop-land the greatest part of this great isle!
     Nature did ne'er so equally divide
     A female heart 'twixt piety and pride:
     Her waiting-maids prevent the peep of day,
     And all in order at her toilet lay
     Prayer-books, patch-boxes, sermon-notes, and paint,
     At once t'improve the sinner and the saint.'

A Mæcenas who paid for his dedications was sure to be well spoken of, and Halifax has been
made out a wit and a poet, as well as a clever statesman. Halifax got his earldom and the garter
from George I., and died, after enjoying them less than a year, in 1715.

Chancellor Somers, with whom Halifax was associated in the impeachment case in 1701, was a
far better man in every respect. His was probably the purest character among those of all the
members of the Kit-kat. He was the son of a Worcester attorney, and born in 1652. He was educated
at Trinity, Oxford, and rose purely by merit, distinguishing himself at the bar and on the
bench, unwearied in his application to business, and an exact and upright judge. At school
he was a terribly good boy, keeping to his book in play-hours. Throughout life his habits were
simple and regular, and his character unblemished. He slept but little, and in later years
had a reader to attend him at waking. With such habits he can scarcely have been a constant
attender at the club; and as he died a bachelor, it would be curious to learn what ladies he
selected for his toasts. In his latter years his mind was weakened, and he died in 1716 of
apoplexy. Walpole calls him 'one of those divine men who, like a chapel in a palace, remained
unprofaned, while all the rest is tyranny, corruption, and folly.'

A huge stout figure rolls in now to join the toasters in Shire Lane. In the puffy, once handsome
face, there are signs of age, for its owner is past sixty; yet he is dressed in superb fashion;
and in an hour or so, when the bottle has been diligently circulated, his wit will be brighter
and keener than that of any young man present. I do not say it will be repeatable, for the
talker belongs to a past age, even coarser than that of the Kit-kat. He is Charles Sackville,[14]
famous as a companion of the merriest and most disreputable of the Stuarts, famous--or, rather,
infamous--for his mistress, Nell Gwynn, famous for his verses, for his patronage of poets,
and for his wild frolics in early life, when Lord Buckhurst. He was one of a band of young
libertines who robbed and murdered a poor tanner on the high-road, and were acquitted, less
on account of the poor excuse they dished up for this act than of their rank and fashion. Such
fine gentlemen could not be hanged for the sake of a mere workman in those days--no! no! Yet
he does not seem to have repented of this transaction, for soon after he was engaged with Sedley
and Ogle in a series of most indecent acts at the Cock Tavern in Bow-street, where Sedley,
in 'birthday attire,' made a blasphemous oration from the balcony of the house. In later years
he was the pride of the poets: Dryden and Prior, Wycherley, Hudibras, and Rymer, were all encouraged
by him, and repaid him with praises. Pope and Dr. King were no less bountiful in their eulogies
of this Mæcenas. His conversation was so much appreciated that gloomy William III. chose him
as his companion, as merry Charles had done before. The famous Irish ballad, which my Uncle
Toby was always humming, 'Lillibullero bullen-a-lah,' but which Percy attributes to the Marquis
of Wharton, another member of the Kit-kat, was said to have been written by Buckhurst. He retained
his wit to the last; and Congreve, who visited him when he was dying, said, 'Faith, he stutters
more wit than other people have in their best health.' He died at Bath in 1706.

Buckhurst does not complete the list of conspicuous members of this club, but the remainder
were less celebrated for their wit. There was the Duke of Kingston, the father of Lady Mary
Wortley Montagu; Granville, who imitated Waller, and attempted to make his 'Myra' as celebrated
as the court-poet's Saccharissa, who, by the way, was the mother of the Earl of Sunderland;
the Duke of Devonshire, whom Walpole calls 'a patriot among the men, a gallant among the ladies,'
and who founded Chatsworth; and other noblemen, chiefly belonging to the latter part of the
seventeenth century, and all devoted to William III., though they had been bred at the courts
of Charles and James.

With such an array of wits, poets, statesmen, and gallants, it can easily be believed that
to be the toast of the Kit-kat was no slight honour; to be a member of it a still greater one;
and to be one of its most distinguished, as Congreve was, the greatest. Let us now see what
title this conceited beau and poet had to that position.

When 'Queen Sarah' of Marlborough read the silly epitaph which Henrietta, Duchess of Marlborough,
had written and had engraved on the monument she set up to Congreve, she said, with one of
the true Blenheim sneers, 'I know not what happiness she might have in his company, but I am
sure it was no honour,' alluding to her daughter's eulogistic phrases.

Queen Sarah was right, as she often was when condemnation was called for: and however amusing
a companion the dramatist may have been, he was not a man to respect, for he had not only the
common vices of his age, but added to them a foppish vanity, toadyism, and fine gentlemanism
(to coin a most necessary word), which we scarcely expect to meet with in a man who sets up
for a satirist.

It is the fate of greatness to have falsehoods told of it, and of nothing in connection with
it more so than of its origin. If the converse be true, Congreve ought to have been a great
man, for the place and time of his birth are both subjects of dispute. Oh! happy Gifford! or
happy Croker! why did you not--perhaps you did--go to work to set the world right on this matter--you,
to whom a date discovered is the highest palm (no pun intended, I assure you) of glory, and
who would rather Shakespere had never written 'Hamlet,' or Homer the 'Iliad,' than that some
miserable little forgotten scrap which decided a year or a place should have been consigned
to flames before it fell into your hands? Why did you not bring the thunder of your abuse and
the pop-gunnery of your satire to bear upon the question, 'How, when, and where was William
Congreve born?'

It was Lady Morgan, I think, who first 'saw the light' (that is, if she was born in the day-time)
in the Irish Channel. If it had been only some one more celebrated, we should have had by this
time a series of philosophical, geographical, and ethnological pamphlets to prove that she
was English or Irish, according to the fancies or prejudices of the writers. It was certainly
a very Irish thing to do, which is one argument for the Milesians, and again it was done in
the Irish Channel, which is another and a stronger one; and altogether we are not inclined
to go into forty-five pages of recondite facts and fine-drawn arguments, mingled with the most
vehement abuse of anybody who ever before wrote on the subject, to prove that this country
had the honour of producing her ladyship--the Wild Irish Girl. We freely give her up to the
sister island. But not so William Congreve, though we are equally indifferent to the honour
in his case.

The one party, then, assert that he was born in this country, the other that he breathed his
first air in the Emerald Isle. Whichever be the true state of the case, we, as Englishmen,
prefer to agree in the commonly received opinion that he came into this wicked world at the
village of Bardsea, or Bardsey, not far from Leeds in the county of York. Let the Bardseyans
immediately erect a statue to his honour, if they have been remiss enough to neglect him heretofore.

But our difficulties are not ended, for there is a similar doubt about the year of his birth.
His earliest biographer assures us he was born in 1672, and others that he was baptized three
years before, in 1669. Such a proceeding might well be taken as a proof of his Hibernian extraction,
and accordingly we find Malone supporting the earlier date, producing, of course, a certificate
of baptism to support himself; and as we have a very great respect for his authority, we beg
also to support Mr. Malone.

This being settled, we have to examine who were his parents: and this is satisfactorily answered
by his earliest biographer, who informs us that he was of a very ancient family, being 'the
only surviving son of William Congreve, Esq. (who was second son to Richard Congreve, Esq.,
of Congreve and Stretton in that county),' to wit, Yorkshire. Congreve père held a military
command, which took him to Ireland soon after the dramatist's birth, and thus young William
had the incomparable advantage of being educated at Kilkenny, and afterwards at Trinity, Dublin,
the 'silent sister,' as it is commonly called at our universities.

At the age of nineteen, this youth sought the classic shades of the Middle Temple, of which
he was entered a student, but by the honourable society of which he was never called to the
bar; but whether this was from a disinclination to study 'Coke upon Lyttleton,' or from an
incapacity to digest the requisite number of dinners, the devouring of which qualify a young
gentleman to address an enlightened British jury, we have no authority for deciding. He was
certainly not the first, nor the last, young Templar who has quitted special pleading on a
crusade to the heights of Parnassus, and he began early to try the nib of his pen and the colour
of his ink in a novel. Eheu! how many a novel has issued from the dull, dirty chambers of that
same Temple! The waters of the Thames just there seem to have been augmented by a mingled flow
of sewage and Helicon, though the former is undoubtedly in the greater proportion. This novel,
called 'Incognita; or, Love and Duty Reconciled,' seems to have been--for I confess that I
have not read more than a chapter of it, and hope I never may be forced to do so--great rubbish,
with good store of villains and ruffians, love-sick maidens who tune their lutes--always conveniently
at hand--and love-sick gallants who run their foes through the body with the greatest imaginable
ease. It was, in fact, such a novel as James might have written, had he lived a century and
a half ago. It brought its author but little fame, and accordingly he turned his attention
to another branch of literature, and in 1693 produced 'The Old Bachelor,' a play of which Dryden,
his friend, had so high an opinion that he called it the 'best first-play he had ever read.'
However, before being put on the stage it was submitted to Dryden, and by him and others prepared
for representation, so that it was well fathered. It was successful enough, and Congreve thus
found his vocation. In his dedication--a regular piece of flummery of those days, for which
authors were often well paid, either in cash or interest--he acknowledges a debt of gratitude
to Lord Halifax, who appears to have taken the young man by the hand.

The young Templar could do nothing better now than write another play. Play-making was as fashionable
an amusement in those days of Old Drury, the only patented theatre then, as novel-writing is
in 1860; and when the young ensign, Vanbrugh, could write comedies and take the direction of
a theatre, it was no derogation to the dignity of the Staffordshire squire's grandson to do
as much. Accordingly, in the following year he brought out a better comedy, 'The Double Dealer,'
with a prologue which was spoken by the famous Anne Bracegirdle.

The success of 'The Double Dealer,' was at first moderate, although that highly respectable
woman, Queen Mary, honoured it with her august presence, which forthwith called up verses of
the old adulatory style, though with less point and neatness than those addressed to the Virgin
Queen:

    'Wit is again the care of majesty,'

said the poet, and

    'Thus flourished wit in our forefathers' age,
     And thus the Roman and Athenian stage.
     Whose wit is best, we'll not presume to tell,
     But this we know, our audience will excell;
     For never was in Rome, nor Athens seen
     So fair a circle, and so bright a queen.'

But this was not enough, for when Her Majesty departed for another realm in the same year,
Congreve put her into a highly eulogistic pastoral, under the name of Pastora, and made some
compliments on her, which were considered the finest strokes of poetry and flattery combined,
that an age of addresses and eulogies could produce.

    'As lofty pines o'ertop the lowly steed,
     So did her graceful height all nymphs exceed,
     To which excelling height she bore a mind
     Humble as osiers, bending to the wind.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I mourn Pastora dead; let Albion mourn,
     And sable clouds her chalkie cliffs adorn.'

This play was dedicated to Lord Halifax, of whom we have spoken, and who continued to be Congreve's
patron.

The fame of the young man was now made; but in the following year it was destined to shine
out more brilliantly still. Old Betterton--one of the best Hamlets that ever trod the stage,
and of whom Booth declared that when he was playing the Ghost to his Hamlet, his look of surprise
and horror was so natural, that Booth could not for some minutes recover himself--was now a
veteran in his sixtieth year. For forty years he had walked the boards, and made a fortune
for the patentees of Drury. It was very shabby of them, therefore, to give some of his best
parts to younger actors. Betterton was disgusted, and determined to set up for himself, to
which end he managed to procure another patent, turned the Queen's Court in Portugal Row, Lincoln's
Inn, into a theatre, and opened it on the 30th of April, 1695. The building had been before
used as a theatre in the days of the Merry Monarch, and Tom Killegrew had acted here some twenty
years before; but it had again become a 'tennis-quatre of the lesser sort,' says Cibber, and
the new theatre was not very grand in fabric. But Betterton drew to it all the best actors
and actresses of his former company; and Mrs. Barry and Mrs. Bracegirdle remained true to the
old man. Congreve, to his honour, espoused the same cause, and the theatre opened with his
play of 'Love for Love,' which was more successful than either of the former. The veteran himself
spoke the prologue, and fair Bracegirdle the epilogue, in which the poet thus alluded to their
change of stage:

    'And thus our audience, which did once resort
     To shining theatres to see our sport,
     Now find us tost into a tennis-court.
     Thus from the past, we hope for future grace:
     I beg it----
     And some here know I have a begging face.'

The king himself completed the success of the opening by attending it, and the theatre in Lincoln's
Inn Fields might have ruined the older house, if it had not been for the rapidity with which
Vanbrugh and Cibber, who wrote for Old Drury, managed to concoct their pieces; while Congreve
was a slower, though perhaps better, writer. 'Love for Love' was hereafter a favourite of Betterton's,
and when in 1709, a year before his death, the company gave the old man--then in ill health,
poor circumstances, and bad spirits--a benefit, he chose this play, and himself, though more
than seventy, acted the part of Valentine, supported by Mrs. Bracegirdle as Angelina, and Mrs.
Barry as Frail.

The young dramatist with all his success, was not satisfied with his fame, and resolved to
show the world that he had as much poetry as wit in him. This he failed to do; and, like better
writers, injured his own fame, by not being contented with what he had. Congreve--the wit,
the dandy, the man about town--took it into his head to write a tragedy. In 1697 'The Mourning
Bride' was acted at the Tennis Court Theatre. The author was wise enough to return to his former
muse, and some time after produced his best piece, so some think, 'The Way of the World,' which
was also performed by Betterton's company; but, alas! for overwriting--that cacoëthes of imprudent
men--it was almost hissed off the stage. Whether this was owing to a weariness of Congreve's
style, or whether at the time of its first appearance Collier's attacks, of which anon, had
already disgusted the public with the obscenity and immorality of this writer, I do not know:
but, whatever the cause, the consequence was that Mr. William Congreve, in a fit of pique,
made up his mind never to write another piece for the stage--a wise resolution, perhaps--and
to turn fine gentleman instead. With the exception of composing a masque called the 'Judgment
of Paris,' and an opera 'Gemele,' which was never performed, he kept this resolution very honestly;
and so Mr. William Congreve's career as a playwright ends at the early age of thirty.

But though he abandoned the drama, he was not allowed to retire in peace. There was a certain
worthy, but peppery little man, who, though a Jacobite and a clergyman, was stanch and true,
and as superior in character--even, indeed, in vigour of writing--to Congreve, as Somers was
to every man of his age. This very Jeremy Collier, to whom we owe it that there is any English
drama fit to be acted before our sisters and wives in the present day. Jeremy, the peppery,
purged the stage in a succession of Jeremiads.

Born in 1650, educated at Cambridge as a poor scholar, ordained at the age of twenty-six, presented
three years later with the living of Ampton, near Bury St. Edmunds, Jeremy had two qualities
to recommend him to Englishmen--respectability and pluck. In an age when the clergy were as
bad as the blackest sheep in their flocks, Jeremy was distinguished by purity of life; in an
age when the only safety lay in adopting the principles of the Vicar of Bray, Jeremy was a
Nonjuror, and of this nothing could cure him. The Revolution of 1688 was scarcely effected,
when the fiery little partizan published a pamphlet, which was rewarded by a residence of some
months in Newgate, not in capacity of chaplain. But he was scarcely let out, when again went
his furious pen, and for four years he continued to assail the new government, till his hands
were shackled and his mouth closed in the prison of 'The Gate-house.' Now, see the character
of the man. He was liberated upon giving bail, but had no sooner reflected on this liberation
than he came to the conclusion that it was wrong, by offering security, to recognize the authority
of magistrates appointed by a usurper, as he held William to be, and voluntarily surrendered
himself to his judges. Of course he was again committed, but this time to the King's Bench,
and would doubtless in a few years have made the tour of the London prisons, if his enemies
had not been tired of trying him. Once more at liberty, he passed the next three years in retirement.

After 1693, Jeremy Collier's name was not brought before the public till 1696, when he publicly
absolved Sir John Friend and Sir William Perkins, at their execution, for being concerned in
a plot to assassinate King William. His 'Essays on Moral Subjects' were published in 1697;
2nd vol., 1705; 3rd vol., 1709. But the only way to put out a firebrand like this is to let
it alone, and Jeremy, being, no longer persecuted, began, at last, to think the game was grown
stupid, and gave it up. He was a well-meaning man, however, and as long as he had the luxury
of a grievance, would injure no one.

He found one now in the immorality of his age, and if he had left politics to themselves from
the first, he might have done much more good than he did. Against the vices of a court and
courtly circles it was useless to start a crusade single-handed; but his quaint clever pen
might yet dress out a powerful Jeremiad against those who encouraged the licentiousness of
the people. Jeremy was no Puritan, for he was a Nonjuror and a Jacobite, and we may, therefore,
believe that the cause was a good one, when we find him adopting precisely the same line as
the Puritans had done before him. In 1698 he published, to the disgust of all Drury and Lincoln's
Inn, his 'Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the English Stage, together with
the Sense of Antiquity upon this Argument.'

While the King of Naples is supplying his ancient Venuses with gowns, and putting his Mars
and Hercules into pantaloons, there are--such are the varieties of opinion--respectable men
in this country who call Paul de Kock the greatest moral writer of his age, and who would yet
like to see 'The Relapse,' 'Love for Love,' and the choice specimens of Wycherley, Farquhar,
and even of Beaumont and Fletcher, acted at the Princess's and the Haymarket in the year of
grace 1860. I am not writing 'A Short View' of this or any other moral subject; but this I
must say--the effect of a sight or sound on a human being's silly little passions must of necessity
be relative. Staid people read 'Don Juan,' Lewis's 'Monk,' the plays of Congreve, and any or
all of the publications of Holywell Street, without more than disgust at their obscenity and
admiration for their beauties. But could we be pardoned for putting these works into the hands
of 'sweet seventeen,' or making Christmas presents of them to our boys? Ignorance of evil is,
to a certain extent, virtue: let boys be boys in purity of mind as long as they can: let the
unrefined 'great unwashed' be treated also much in the same way as young people. I maintain
that to a coarse mind all improper ideas, however beautifully clothed, suggest only sensual
thoughts--nay, the very modesty of the garments makes them the more insidious--the more dangerous.
I would rather give my boy Jonson, Massinger, or Beaumont and Fletcher, whose very improper
things 'are called by their proper names,' than let him dive in the prurient innuendo of these
later writers.

But there is no need to argue the question--the public has decided it long since, and, except
in indelicate ballets, and occasional rather French passages in farce, our modern stage is
free from immorality. Even in Garrick's days, when men were not much more refined than in those
of Queen Anne, it was found impossible to put the old drama on the stage without considerable
weeding. Indeed I doubt if even the liberal upholder of Paul de Kock would call Congreve a
moral writer; but I confess I am not a competent judge, for risum teneatis, my critics, I have
not read his works since I was a boy, and what is more, I have no intention of reading them.
I well remember getting into my hands a large thick volume, adorned with miserable woodcuts,
and bearing on its back the title 'Wycherley, Congreve, Vanbrugh, and Farquhar.' I devoured
it at first with the same avidity with which one might welcome a bottle-imp, who at the hour
of one's dulness turned up out of the carpet and offered you delights new and old for nothing
but a tether on your soul: and with a like horror, boy though I was, I recoiled from it when
any better moment came. It seemed to me, when I read this book, as if life were too rotten
for any belief, a nest of sharpers, adulterers, cut-throats, and prostitutes. There was none--as
far as I remember--of that amiable weakness, of that better sentiment, which in Ben Jonson
or Massinger reconcile us to human nature. If truth be a test of genius, it must be a proof
of true poetry, that man is not made uglier than he is. Nay, his very ugliness loses its intensity
and palls upon our diseased tastes, for want of some goodness, some purity and honesty to relieve
it. I will not say that there is none of this in Congreve. I only know, that my recollection
of his plays is like that of a vile nightmare, which I would not for anything have return to
me. I have read, since, books as bad, perhaps worse in some respects, but I have found the
redemption here and there. I would no more place Shandy in any boy's hands than Congreve and
Farquhar; and yet I can read Tristram again and again with delight; for amid all that is bad
there stand out Trim and Toby, pure specimens of the best side of human nature, coming home
to us and telling us that the world is not all bad. There may be such touches in 'Love for
Love,' or 'The Way of the World'--I know not and care not. To my remembrance Congreve is but
a horrible nightmare, and may the fates forbid I should be forced to go through his plays again.

Perhaps, then, Jeremy was not far wrong, when he attacked these specimens of the drama with
an unrelenting Nemesis; but he was before his age. It was less the obvious coarseness of these
productions with which he found fault than their demoralizing tendency in a direction which
we should now, perhaps, consider innocuous. Certainly the Jeremiad overdid it, and like a swift,
but not straight bowler at cricket, he sent balls which no wicket-keeper could stop, and which,
therefore, were harmless to the batter. He did not want boldness. He attacked Dryden, now close
upon his grave: Congreve, a young man; Vanbrugh, Cibber, Farquhar, and the rest, all alive,
all in the zenith of their fame, and all as popular as writers could be. It was as much as
if a man should stand up to-day and denounce Dickens and Thackeray, with the exception that
well-meaning people went along with Jeremy, whereas very few would do more than smile at the
zeal of any one who tilted against our modern pets. Jeremy, no doubt, was bold, but he wanted
tact, and so gave his enemy occasion to blaspheme. He made out cases where there were none,
and let alone what we moderns should denounce. So Congreve took up the cudgels against him
with much wit and much coarseness, and the two fought out the battle in many a pamphlet and
many a letter. But Jeremy was not to be beaten. His 'Short View' was followed by 'A Defence
of the Short View,' a 'Second Defence of the Short View,' 'A Farther Short View,' and, in short,
a number of 'Short Views,' which had been better merged into one 'Long Sight.' Jeremy grew
coarse and bitter; Congreve coarser and bitterer; and the whole controversy made a pretty chapter
for the 'Quarrels of Authors.' But the Jeremiad triumphed in the long run, because, if its
method was bad, its cause was good, and a succeeding generation voted Congreve immoral. Enough
of Jeremy. We owe him a tribute for his pluck, and though no one reads him in the present day,
we may be thankful to him for having led the way to a better state of things.[15]

Congreve defended himself in eight letters addressed to Mr. Moyle, and we can only say of them,
that, if anything, they are yet coarser than the plays he would excuse.

The works of the young Templar, and his connection with Betterton, introduced him to all the
writers and wits of his day. He and Vanbrugh, though rivals, were fellow-workers, and our glorious
Haymarket Theatre, which has gone on at times when Drury and Covent Garden have been in despair,
owes its origin to their confederacy. But Vanbrugh's theatre was on the site of the present
Opera House, and the Haymarket was set up as a rival concern. Vanbrugh's was built in 1705,
and met the usual fate of theatres, being burnt down some eighty-four years after. It is curious
enough that this house, destined for the 'legitimate drama'--often a very illegitimate performance--was
opened by an opera set to Italian music, so that 'Her Majesty's' has not much departed from
the original cast of the place.

Perhaps Congreve's best friend was Dryden. This man's life and death are pretty well known,
and even his funeral has been described time and again. But Corinna--as she was styled--gave
of the latter an account which has been called romantic, and much discredited. There is a deal
of characteristic humour in her story of the funeral, and as it has long been lost sight of,
it may not be unpalatable here: Dryden died on May-day, 1701, and Lord Halifax[16] undertook
to give his body a private funeral in Westminster Abbey.

'On the Saturday following,' writes Corinna, 'the Company came. When, just before they began
to move, Lord Jeffreys, with some of his rakish Companions, coming by, in Wine, ask'd whose
Funeral? As soon as she recover'd her Speech, she cry'd, "No, no!" "Enough gentlemen," reply'd
he (rising briskly), "My Lady is very good, she says, Go, go!" She repeated her former Words
with all her Strength, but alas in vain! her feeble voice was lost in their Acclamations of
Joy! and Lord Jeffreys order'd the Hearseman to carry the Corps to Russell's, an undertaker
in Cheapside, and leave it there, till he sent orders for the Embalment, which, he added, should
be after the Royal Manner. His Directions were obey'd, the Company dispersed, and Lady Elsabeth
and Mr. Charles remained Inconsolable. On this Mr. Russell waits on Lady Elsabeth and Mr. Dryden;
but alas, it was not in their power to answer. The season was very hot, the Deceas'd had liv'd
high and fast; and being corpulent, and abounding with gross Humours, grew very offensive.
The Undertaker, in short, threaten'd to bring home the Corps, and set it before the Door. It
cannot be easily imagin'd what grief, shame, and confusion seized this unhappy Family. They
begged a Day's Respite, which was granted. In this extream Distress, Dr. Garth, a man who entirely
lov'd Mr. Dryden, and was withal a Man of Generosity and great Humanity, sends for the Corps
to the College of Physicians in Warwick Lane, and proposed a Funeral by Subscription, to which
himself set a most noble example. Mr. Wycherley, and several others, among whom must not be
forgotten Henry Cromwell, Esq., Captain Gibbons, and Mr. Christopher Metcalfe, Mr. Dryden's
Apothecary and intimate Friend (since a Collegiate Physician), who with many others contributed
most largely to the Subscription; and at last a Day, about three weeks after his Decease, was
appointed for the Interment at the Abbey. Dr. Garth pronounced a fine Latin Oration over the
Corps at the College; but the Audience being numerous, and the Room large, it was requisite
the Orator should be elevated, that he might be heard. But as it unluckily happen'd there was
nothing at hand but an old Beer-Barrel, which the Doctor with much good-nature mounted; and
in the midst of his Oration, beating Time to the Accent with his Foot, the Head broke in, and
his Feet sunk to the Bottom, which occasioned the malicious Report of his Enemies, "That he
was turned a Tub-Preacher." However, he finished the Oration with a superior grace and genius,
to the loud Acclamations of Mirth, which inspir'd the mix'd or rather Mob-Auditors. The Procession
began to move, a numerous Train of Coaches attended the Hearse: But, good God! in what Disorder
can only be express'd by a Sixpenny Pamphlet, soon after published, entitled "Dryden's Funeral."
The Butchers and other Mob broke in like a Deluge, so that only about eight or ten Gentlemen
could gain Admission, and those forced to cut the Way with their drawn Swords. The Coffin in
this Disorder was let down into Chaucer's Grave, with as much confusion, and as little Ceremony,
as was possible; every one glad to save themselves from the Gentlemen's Swords, or the Clubs
of the Mob. The coincidences of prophecy are not more remarkable than those of star-telling;
and Dryden and the author I have referred to were probably both captivated into belief by some
fatuitous realization of their horoscopic predictions. Nor can we altogether blame their credulity,
when we see biology, table-turning, rapping, and all the family of imposture, taken up seriously
in our own time.

On the birth of his son Charles, Dryden immediately cast his horoscope. The following account
of Dryden's paternal solicitude for his son, and its result, may be taken as embellished, if
not apocryphal. Evil hour, indeed--Jupiter, Venus, and the Sun were all 'under the earth;'
Mars and Saturn were in square: eight, or a multiple of it, would be fatal to the child--the
square foretold it. In his eighth, his twenty-fourth, or his thirty-second year, he was certain
to die, though he might possibly linger on to the age of thirty-four. The stars did all they
could to keep up their reputation. When the boy was eight years old he nearly lost his life
by being buried under a heap of stones out of an old wall, knocked down by a stag and hounds
in a hunt. But the stars were not to be beaten, and though the child recovered, went in for
the game a second time in his twenty-third year, when he fell, in a fit of giddiness, from
a tower, and, to use Lady Elsabeth's words, was 'mash'd to a mummy.' Still the battle was not
over, and the mummy returned in due course to its human form, though considerably disfigured.
Mars and Saturn were naturally disgusted at his recovery, and resolved to finish the disobedient
youth. As we have seen, he in vain sought his fate at the hand of Jeffreys; but we must conclude
that the offended constellations took Neptune in partnership, for in due course the youth met
with a watery grave.

After abandoning the drama, Congreve appears to have come out in the light of an independent
gentleman. He was already sufficiently introduced into literary society; Pope, Steele, Swift,
and Addison were not only his friends but his admirers, and we can well believe that their
admiration was considerable, when we find the one dedicating his 'Miscellany,' the other his
translation of the 'Iliad,' to a man who was qualified neither by rank nor fortune to play Mæcenas.

At what time he was admitted to the Kit-kat I am not in a position to state, but it must have
been after 1715, and by that time he was a middle-aged man, his fame was long since achieved;
and whatever might be thought of his works and his controversy with Collier, he was recognised
as one of the literary stars at a period when the great courted the clever, and wit was a passport
to any society. Congreve had plenty of that, and probably at the Kit-kat was the life of the
party when Vanbrugh was away or Addison in a graver mood. Untroubled by conscience, he could
launch out on any subject whatever; and his early life, spent in that species of so-called
gaiety which was then the routine of every young man of the world, gave him ample experience
to draw upon. But Congreve's ambition was greater than his talents. No man so little knew his
real value, or so grossly asserted one which he had not. Gay, handsome, and in good circumstances,
he aspired to be, not Congreve the poet, not Congreve the wit, not Congreve the man of mind,
but simply Congreve the fine gentleman. Such humility would be charming if it were not absurd.
It is a vice of scribes to seek a character for which they have little claim. Moore loved to
be thought a diner-out rather than a poet; even Byron affected the fast man when he might have
been content with the name of 'genius;' but Congreve went farther, and was ashamed of being
poet, dramatist, genius, or what you will. An anecdote of him, told by Voltaire, who may have
been an 'awfu' liar,' but had no temptation to invent in such a case as this, is so consistent
with what we gather of the man's character, that one cannot but think it is true.

The philosopher of Ferney was anxious to see and converse with a brother dramatist of such
celebrity as the author of 'The Way of the World.' He expected to find a man of a keen satirical
mind, who would join him in a laugh against humanity. He visited Congreve, and naturally began
to talk of his works. The fine gentleman spoke of them as trifles utterly beneath his notice,
and told him, with an affectation which perhaps was sincere, that he wished to be visited as
a gentleman, not as an author. One can imagine the disgust of his brother dramatist. Voltaire
replied, that had Mr. Congreve been nothing more than a gentleman, he should not have taken
the trouble to call on him, and therewith retired with an expression of merited contempt.

It is only in the present day that authorship is looked upon as a profession, though it has
long been one. It is amusing to listen to the sneers of men who never wrote a book, or who,
having written, have gained thereby some more valuable advantage than the publisher's cheque.
The men who talk with horror of writing for money, are glad enough if their works introduce
them to the notice of the influential, and aid them in procuring a place. In the same way,
Congreve was not at all ashamed of fulsome dedications, which brought him the favour of the
great. Yet we may ask, if, the labourer being worthy of his hire, and the labour of the brain
being the highest, finest, and most exhausting that can be, the man who straight-forwardly
and without affectation takes guineas from his publisher, is not honester than he who counts
upon an indirect reward for his toil? Fortunately, the question is almost settled by the example
of the first writers of the present day; but there are still people who think that one should
sit down to a year's--ay, ten years'--hard mental work, and expect no return but fame. Whether
such objectors have always private means to return to, or whether they have never known what
it is to write a book, we do not care to examine, but they are to be found in large numbers
among the educated; and indeed, to this present day, it is held by some among the upper classes
to be utterly derogatory to write for money.

Whether this was the feeling in Congreve's day or not is not now the question. Those were glorious
days for an author, who did not mind playing the sycophant a little. Instead of having to trudge
from door to door in Paternoster Row, humbly requesting an interview, which is not always granted--instead
of sending that heavy parcel of MS., which costs you a fortune for postage, to publisher after
publisher, till it is so often 'returned with thanks' that you hate the very sight of it, the
young author of those days had a much easier and more comfortable part to play. An introduction
to an influential man in town, who again would introduce you to a patron, was all that was
necessary. The profession of Mæcenas was then as recognized and established as that of doctor
or lawyer. A man of money could always buy brains; and most noblemen considered an author to
be as necessary a part of his establishment as the footmen who ushered them into my lord's
presence. A fulsome dedication in the largest type was all that he asked: and if a writer were
sufficiently profuse in his adulation, he might dine at Mæcenas's table, drink his sack and
canary without stint, and apply to him for cash whenever he found his pockets empty. Nor was
this all: if a writer were sufficiently successful in his works to reflect honour on his patron,
he was eagerly courted by others of the noble profession. He was offered, if not hard cash,
as good an equivalent, in the shape of a comfortable government sinecure; and if this was not
to be had, he was sometimes even lodged and boarded by his obliged dedicatee. In this way he
was introduced into the highest society; and if he had wit enough to support the character,
he soon found himself facile princeps in a circle of the highest nobility in the land. Thus
it is that in the clubs of the day we find title and wealth mingling with wit and genius; and
the writer who had begun life by a cringing dedication, was now rewarded by the devotion and
assiduity of the men he had once flattered. When Steele, Swift, Addison, Pope, and Congreve
were the kings of their sets, it was time for authors to look and talk big. Eheu! those happy
days are gone!

Our dramatist, therefore, soon discovered that a good play was the key to a good place, and
the Whigs took care that he should have it. Oddly enough, when the Tories came in they did
not turn him out. Perhaps they wanted to gain him over to themselves; perhaps, like the Vicar
of Bray, he did not mind turning his coat once or twice in a life-time. However this may be,
he managed to keep his appointment without offending his own party; and when the latter returned
to power, he even induced them to give him a comfortable little sinecure, which went by the
name of Secretary to the Island of Jamaica, and raised the income from his appointments to
£1200 a year.

From this period he was little before the public. He could afford now to indulge his natural
indolence and selfishness. His private life was perhaps not worse than that of the majority
of his contemporaries. He had his intrigues, his mistresses, the same love of wine, and the
same addiction to gluttony. He had the reputation of a wit, and with wits he passed his time,
sufficiently easy in his circumstances to feel no damping to his spirits in the cares of this
life. The Island of Jamaica probably gave him no further trouble than that of signing a few
papers from time to time, and giving a receipt for his salary. His life, therefore, presents
no very remarkable feature, and he is henceforth known more on account of his friends than
for aught he may himself have done. The best of these friends was Walter Moyle, the scholar,
who translated parts of Lucian and Xenophon, and was pretty well known as a classic. He was
a Cornish man of independent means, and it was to him that Congreve addressed the letters in
which he attempted to defend himself from the attacks of Collier.

It was not to be expected that a wit and a poet should go through life without a platonic,
and accordingly we find our man not only attached, but devoted to a lady of great distinction.
This was no other than Henrietta, Duchess of Marlborough, the daughter of 'Malbrook' himself,
and of the famous 'Queen Sarah.' Henrietta was the eldest daughter, and there was no son to
inherit the prowess of Churchill and the parsimony of his wife. The nation--to which, by the
way, the Marlboroughs were never grateful--would not allow the title of their pet warrior to
become extinct, and a special Act of Parliament gave to the eldest daughter the honours of
the duchy.[17] The two Duchesses of Marlborough hated each other cordially. Sarah's temper
was probably the main cause of their bickering; but there is never a feud between parent and
child in which both are not more or less blameable.

The Duchess Henrietta conceived a violent fancy for the wit and poet, and whatever her husband,
Lord Godolphin, may have thought of it, the connection ripened into a most intimate friendship,
so much so that Congreve made the duchess not only his executrix, but the sole residuary legatee
of all his property.[18] His will gives us some insight into the toadying character of the
man. Only four near relations are mentioned as legatees, and only £540 is divided among them;
whereas, after leaving £200 to Mrs. Bracegirdle, the actress; £100, 'and all my apparel and
linnen of all sorts' to a Mrs. Rooke, he divides the rest between his friends of the nobility,
Lords Cobham and Shannon, the Duchess of Newcastle, Lady Mary Godolphin, Colonel Churchill
(who receives 'twenty pounds, together with my gold-headed cane'), and, lastly, 'to the poor
of the parish,' the magnificent sum of ten pounds. 'Blessed are those who give to the rich;'
these words must surely have expressed the sentiment of the worldly Congreve.

However, Congreve got something in return from the Duchess Henrietta, which he might not have
received from 'the poor of the parish,' to wit, a monument, and an inscription on it written
by her own hand. I have already said what 'Queen Sarah' thought of the latter, and, for the
rest, those who care to read the nonsense on the walls of Westminster Abbey can decide for
themselves as to the honour the poet received from his titled friend.

The latter days of William Congreve were passed in wit and gout: the wine, which warmed the
one, probably brought on the latter. After a course of ass's milk, which does not seem to have
done him much good, the ex-dramatist retired to Bath, a very fashionable place for departing
life in, under easy and elegant circumstances. But he not only drank of the springs beloved
of King Bladud, of apocryphal memory, but even went so far as to imbibe the snail-water, which
was then the last species of quack cure in vogue. This, probably, despatched him. But it is
only just to that disagreeable little reptile that infests our gardens, and whose slime was
supposed to possess peculiarly strengthening properties, to state that his death was materially
hastened by being overturned when driving in his chariot. He was close upon sixty, had long
been blind from cataracts in his eyes, and as he was no longer either useful or ornamental
to the world in general, he could perhaps be spared. He died soon after this accident in January,
1729. He had the sense to die at a time when Westminster Abbey, being regarded as a mausoleum,
was open to receive the corpse of any one who had a little distinguished himself, and even
of some who had no distinction whatever. He was buried there with great pomp, and his dear
duchess set up his monument. So much for his body. What became of the soul of a dissolute,
vain, witty, and unprincipled man, is no concern of ours. Requiescat in pace, if there is any
peace for those who are buried in Westminster Abbey.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 15: Dryden, in the Preface to his Fables, acknowledged that Collier 'had, in many
points, taxed him justly.']

[Footnote 16: Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax. Lord Halifax was born in 1661, and died in 1715.

There is nothing new under the sun, said Walpole, by way of a very original remark. 'No,' whispered
George Selwyn, 'nor under the grandson, either.'

Mankind, as a body, has proved its silliness in a thousand ways, but in none, perhaps, so ludicrously
as in its respect for a man's coat. He is not always a fool that knows the value of dress;
and some of the wisest and greatest of men have been dandies of the first water. King Solomon
was one, and Alexander the Great was another; but there never was a more despotic monarch,
nor one more humbly obeyed by his subjects, than the King of Bath, and he won his dominions
by the cut of his coat. But as Hercules was killed by a dress-shirt, so the beaux of the modern
world have generally ruined themselves by their wardrobes, and brought remorse to their hearts,
or contempt from the very people who once worshipped them. The husband of Mrs. Damer, who appeared
in a new suit twice a-day, and whose wardrobe sold for £15,000, blew his brains out at a coffee-house.
Beau Fielding, Beau Nash, and Beau Brummell all expiated their contemptible vanity in obscure
old age of want and misery. As the world is full of folly, the history of a fool is as good
a mirror to hold up to it as another; but in the case of Beau Nash the only question is, whether
he or his subjects were the greater fools. So now for a picture of as much folly as could well
be crammed into that hot basin in the Somersetshire hills, of which more anon.

It is a hard thing for a man not to have had a father--harder still, like poor Savage, to have
one whom he cannot get hold of; but perhaps it is hardest of all, when you have a father, and
that parent a very respectable man, to be told that you never had one. This was Nash's case,
and his father was so little known, and so seldom mentioned, that the splendid Beau was thought
almost to have dropped from the clouds, ready dressed and powdered. He dropped in reality from
anything but a heavenly place--the shipping town of Swansea: so that Wales can claim the honour
of having produced the finest beau of his age.

Old Nash was, perhaps, a better gentleman than his son; but with far less pretension. He was
a partner in a glass-manufactory. The Beau, in after-years, often got rallied on the inferiority
of his origin, and the least obnoxious answer he ever made was to Sarah of Marlborough, as
rude a creature as himself, who told him he was ashamed of his parentage. 'No, madam,' replied
the King of Bath, 'I seldom mention my father, in company, not because I have any reason to
be ashamed of him, but because he has some reason to be ashamed of me.' Nash, though a fop
and a fool, was not a bad-hearted man, as we shall see. And if there were no other redeeming
point in his character, it is a great deal to say for him, that in an age of toadyism, he treated
rank in the same manner as he did the want of it, and did his best to remove the odious distinctions
which pride would have kept up in his dominions. In fact, King Nash may be thanked for having,
by his energy in this respect, introduced into society the first elements of that middle class
which is found alone in England.

Old Nash--whose wife, by the way, was niece to that Colonel Poyer who defended Pembroke Castle
in the days of the first Revolution--was one of those silly men who want to make gentlemen
of their sons, rather than good men. He had his wish. His son Richard was a very fine gentleman,
no doubt; but, unfortunately, the same circumstances that raised him to that much coveted position,
also made him a gambler and a profligate. Oh! foolish papas, when will you learn that a Christian
snob is worth ten thousand irreligious gentlemen? When will you be content to bring up your
boys for heaven rather than for the brilliant world? Nash, senior, sent his son first to school
and then to Oxford, to be made a gentleman of. Richard was entered at Jesus College, the haunt
of the Welsh. In my day, this quiet little place was celebrated for little more than the humble
poverty of its members, one-third of whom rejoiced in the cognomen of Jones. They were not
renowned for cleanliness, and it was a standing joke with us silly boys, to ask at the door
for 'that Mr. Jones who had a tooth-brush.' If the college had the same character then, Nash
must have astonished its dons, and we are not surprised that in his first year they thought
it better to get rid of him.

His father could ill afford to keep him at Oxford, and fondly hoped he would distinguish himself.
'My boy Dick' did so at the very outset, by an offer of marriage to one of those charming sylphs
of that academical city, who are always on the look-out for credulous undergraduates. The affair
was discovered, and Master Richard, who was not seventeen, was removed from the University.[19]
Whether he ever, in after-life, made another offer, I know not, but there is no doubt that
he ought to have been married, and that the connections he formed in later years were far more
disreputable than his first love affairs.

The worthy glass manufacturer, having failed to make his son a gentleman in one way, took the
best step to make him a blackguard, and, in spite of the wild inclinations he had already evinced,
bought him a commission in the army. In this new position the incipient Beau did everything
but his duty; dressed superbly, but would not be in time for parade, spent more money than
he had, but did not obey orders; and finally, though not expelled from the army, he found it
convenient to sell his commission, and return home, after spending the proceeds.

Papa was now disgusted, and sent the young Hopeless to shift for himself. What could a well-disposed,
handsome youth do to keep body and, not soul, but clothes together? He had but one talent,
and that was for dress. Alas, for our degenerate days! When we are pitched upon our own bottoms,
we must work; and that is a highly ungentlemanly thing to do. But in the beginning of the last
century, such a degrading resource was quite unnecessary. There were always at hand plenty
of establishments where a youth could obtain the necessary funds to pay his tailor, if fortune
favoured him; and if not, he could follow the fashion of the day, and take to what the Japanese
call 'the happy Despatch.' Nash probably suspected that he had no brains to blow out, and he
determined the more resolutely to make fortune his mistress. He went to the gaming-table, and
turned his one guinea into ten, and his ten into a hundred, and was soon blazing about in gold
lace, and a new sword, the very delight of dandies.

He had entered his name, by way of excuse, at the Temple, and we can quite believe that he
ate all the requisite dinners, though it is not so certain that he paid for them. He soon found
that a fine coat is not so very far beneath a good brain in worldly estimation, and when, on
the accession of William the Third, the Templars, according to the old custom, gave his Majesty
a banquet, Nash, as a promising Beau, was selected to manage the establishment. It was his
first experience of the duties of an M.C., and he conducted himself so ably on this occasion
that the king even offered to make a knight of him. He had another chance of the title, however,
in days when he could have better maintained it, but again he refused. Queen Anne once asked
him why he declined knighthood. He replied: 'There is Sir William Read, the mountebank, who
has just been knighted, and I should have to call him "brother."' The honour was, in fact,
rather a cheap one in those days, and who knows whether a man who had done such signal service
to his country did not look forward to a peerage? Worse men than even Beau Nash have had it.

Well, Nash could afford to defy royalty, for he was to be himself a monarch of all he surveyed,
and a good deal more; but before we follow him to Bath, let us give the devil his due--which,
by the way, he generally gets--and tell a pair of tales in the Beau's favour.

Imprimis, his accounts at the Temple were £10 deficient. Now I don't mean that Nash was not
as great a liar as most of his craft, but the truth of this tale rests on the authority of
the 'Spectator,' though Nash took delight in repeating it.

'Come hither, young man,' said the Benchers, coolly: 'Whereunto this deficit?'

'Pri'thee, good masters,' quoth Nash, 'that £10 was spent on making a man happy.'

'A man happy, young sir, pri'thee explain.'

'Odds donners,' quoth Nash, 'the fellow said in my hearing that his wife and bairns were starving,
and £10 would make him the happiest man sub sole, and on such an occasion as His Majesty's
accession, could I refuse it him?'

Nash was, proverbially more generous than just. He would not pay a debt if he could help it,
but would give the very amount to the first friend that begged it. There was much ostentation
in this, but then my friend Nash was ostentatious. One friend bothered him day and night for
£20 that was owing to him, and he could not get it. Knowing his debtor's character, he hit,
at last, on a happy expedient, and sent a friend to borrow the money, 'to relieve his urgent
necessities.' Out came the bank note, before the story of distress was finished. The friend
carried it to the creditor, and when the latter again met Nash, he ought to have made him a
pretty compliment on his honesty.

Perhaps the King of Bath would not have tolerated in any one else the juvenile frolics he delighted
in after-years to relate of his own early days. When at a loss for cash, he would do anything,
but work, for a fifty pound note, and having, in one of his trips, lost all his money at York,
the Beau undertook to 'do penance' at the minster door for that sum. He accordingly arrayed
himself--not in sackcloth and ashes--but in an able-bodied blanket, and nothing else, and took
his stand at the porch, just at the hour when the dean would be going in to read service. 'He,
ho,' cried that dignitary, who knew him, 'Mr. Nash in masquerade?'--'Only a Yorkshire penance,
Mr. Dean,' quoth the reprobate; 'for keeping bad company, too,' pointing therewith to the friends
who had come to see the sport.

This might be tolerated, but when in the eighteenth century a young man emulates the hardiness
of Godiva, without her merciful heart, we may not think quite so well of him. Mr. Richard Nash,
Beau Extraordinary to the Kingdom of Bath, once rode through a village in that costume of which
even our first parent was rather ashamed, and that, too, on the back of a cow! The wager was,
I believe, considerable. A young Englishman did something more respectable, yet quite as extraordinary,
at Paris, not a hundred years ago, for a small bet. He was one of the stoutest, thickest-built
men possible, yet being but eighteen, had neither whisker nor moustache to masculate his clear
English complexion. At the Maison Dorée one night he offered to ride in the Champs Elysées
in a lady's habit, and not be mistaken for a man. A friend undertook to dress him, and went
all over Paris to hire a habit that would fit his round figure. It was hopeless for a time,
but at last a good-sized body was found, and added thereto, an ample skirt. Félix dressed his
hair with mainte plats and a net. He looked perfect, but in coming out of the hairdresser's
to get into his fly, unconsciously pulled up his skirt and displayed a sturdy pair of well-trousered
legs. A crowd--there is always a ready crowd in Paris--was waiting, and the laugh was general.
This hero reached the horse-dealer's--'mounted,' and rode down the Champs. 'A very fine woman
that,' said a Frenchman in the promenade, 'but what a back she has!' It was in the return bet
to this that a now well-known diplomat drove a goat-chaise and six down the same fashionable
resort, with a monkey, dressed as a footman, in the back seat. The days of folly did not, apparently
end with Beau Nash.

There is a long lacuna in the history of this worthy's life, which may have been filled up
by a residence in a spunging-house, or by a temporary appointment as billiard-marker; but the
heroic Beau accounted for his disappearance at this time in a much more romantic manner. He
used to relate that he was once asked to dinner on board of a man-of-war under orders for the
Mediterranean, and that such was the affection the officers entertained for him, that, having
made him drunk--no difficult matter--they weighed anchor, set sail, and carried the successor
of King Bladud away to the wars. Having gone so far, Nash was not the man to neglect an opportunity
for imaginary valour. He therefore continued to relate, that, in the apocryphal vessel, he
was once engaged in a yet more apocryphal encounter, and wounded in the leg. This was a little
too much for the good Bathonians to believe, but Nash silenced their doubts. On one occasion,
a lady who was present when he was telling this story, expressed her incredulity.

'I protest, madam,' cried the Beau, lifting his leg up, 'it is true, and if I cannot be believed,
your ladyship may, if you please, receive further information and feel the ball in my leg.'

Wherever Nash may have passed the intervening years, may be an interesting speculation for
a German professor, but is of little moment to us. We find him again, at the age of thirty,
taking first steps towards the complete subjugation of the kingdom he afterwards ruled.

There is, among the hills of Somersetshire, a huge basin formed by the river Avon, and conveniently
supplied with a natural gush of hot water, which can be turned on at any time for the cleansing
of diseased bodies. This hollow presents many curious anomalies; though sought for centuries
for the sake of health, it is one of the most unhealthily-situated places in the kingdom; here
the body and the pocket are alike cleaned out, but the spot itself has been noted for its dirtiness
since the days of King Bladud's wise pigs; here, again, the diseased flesh used to be healed,
but the healthy soul within it speedily besickened: you came to cure gout and rheumatism, and
caught in exchange dice-fever.

The mention of those pigs reminds me that it would be a shameful omission to speak of this
city without giving the story of that apocryphal British monarch, King Bladud. But let me be
the one exception; let me respect the good sense of the reader, and not insult him by supposing
him capable of believing a mythic jumble of kings and pigs and dirty marshes, which he will,
if he cares to, find at full length in any 'Bath Guide'--price sixpence.

But whatever be the case with respect to the Celtic sovereign, there is, I presume, no doubt,
that the Romans were here, and probably the centurians and tribunes cast the alea in some pristine
assembly-room, or wagged their plumes in some well-built Pump-room, with as much spirit of
fashion as the full-bottomed-wig exquisites in the reign of King Nash. At any rate Bath has
been in almost every age a common centre for health-seekers and gamesters--two antipodal races
who always flock together--and if it has from time to time declined, it has only been for a
period. Saxon churls and Norman lords were too sturdy to catch much rheumatic gout; crusaders
had better things to think of than their imaginary ailments; good-health was in fashion under
Plantagenets and Tudors; doctors were not believed in; even empirics had to praise their wares
with much wit, and Morrison himself must have mounted a bank and dressed in Astleyian costume
in order to find a customer; sack and small-beer were harmless, when homes were not comfortable
enough to keep earl or churl by the fireside, and 'out-of-doors' was the proper drawing-room
for a man: in short, sickness came in with civilization, indisposition with immoral habits,
fevers with fine gentlemanliness, gout with greediness, and valetudinarianism--there is no
Anglo-Saxon word for that--with what we falsely call refinement. So, whatever Bath may have
been to pampered Romans, who over-ate themselves, it had little importance to the stout, healthy
middle ages, and it was not till the reign of Charles II. that it began to look up. Doctors
and touters--the two were often one in those days--thronged there, and fools were found in
plenty to follow them. At last the blessed countenance of portly Anne smiled on the pig styes
of King Bladud. In 1703 she went to Bath, and from that time 'people of distinction' flocked
there. The assemblage was not perhaps very brilliant or very refined. The visitors danced on
the green, and played privately at hazard. A few sharpers found their way down from London;
and at last the Duke of Beaufort instituted an M.C. in the person of Captain Webster--Nash's
predecessor--whose main act of glory was in setting up gambling as a public amusement. It remained
for Nash to make the place what it afterwards was, when Chesterfield could lounge in the Pump-room
and take snuff with the Beau; when Sarah of Marlborough, Lord and Lady Hervey, the Duke of
Wharton, Congreve, and all the little-great of the day thronged thither rather to kill time
with less ceremony than in London, than to cure complaints more or less imaginary.

The doctors were only less numerous than the sharpers; the place was still uncivilized; the
company smoked and lounged without etiquette, and played without honour: the place itself lacked
all comfort, all elegance, and all cleanliness.

Upon this delightful place, the avatár of the God of Etiquette, personified in Mr. Richard
Nash, descended somewhere about the year 1705, for the purpose of regenerating the barbarians.
He alighted just at the moment that one of the doctors we have alluded to, in a fit of disgust
at some slight on the part of the town, was threatening to destroy its reputation, or, as he
politely expressed it, 'to throw a toad into the spring.' The Bathonians were alarmed and in
consternation, when young Nash, who must have already distinguished himself as a macaroni,
stepped forward and offered to render the angry physician impotent. 'We'll charm his toad out
again with music,' quoth he. He evidently thought very little of the watering-place, after
his town experiences, and prepared to treat it accordingly. He got up a band in the Pump-room,
brought thither in this manner the healthy as well as the sick, and soon raised the renown
of Bath as a resort for gaiety as well as for mineral waters. In a word, he displayed a surprising
talent for setting everything and everybody to rights, and was, therefore, soon elected, by
tacit voting, the King of Bath.

He rapidly proved his qualifications for the position. First he secured his Orphean harmony
by collecting a band-subscription, which gave two guineas a-piece to six performers; then he
engaged an official pumper for the Pump-room; and lastly, finding that the bathers still gathered
under a booth to drink their tea and talk their scandal, he induced one Harrison to build assembly-rooms,
guaranteeing him three guineas a week to be raised by subscription.

All this demanded a vast amount of impudence on Mr. Nash's part, and this he possessed to a
liberal extent. The subscriptions flowed in regularly, and Nash felt his power increase with
his responsibility. So, then, our minor monarch resolved to be despotic, and in a short time
laid down laws for the guests, which they obeyed most obsequiously. Nash had not much wit,
though a great deal of assurance, but these laws were his chef-d'oeuvre. Witness some of them:--

1. 'That a visit of ceremony at first coming and another at going away, are all that are expected
or desired by ladies of quality and fashion--except impertinents.

4. 'That no person takes it ill that any one goes to another's play or breakfast, and not theirs--except
captious nature.

5. 'That no gentleman give his ticket for the balls to any but gentlewomen. N.B.--Unless he
has none of his acquaintance.

6. 'That gentlemen crowding before the ladies at the ball, show ill manners; and that none
do so for the future--except such as respect nobody but themselves.

9. 'That the younger ladies take notice how many eyes observe them. N.B.--This does not extend
to the Have-at-alls.

10. 'That all whisperers of lies and scandal be taken for their authors.'

Really this law of Nash's must have been repealed some time or other at Bath. Still more that
which follows:--

11. 'That repeaters of such lies and scandal be shunned by all company, except such as have
been guilty of the same crime.'

There is a certain amount of satire in these Lycurgus statutes that shows Nash in the light
of an observer of society; but, query, whether any frequenter of Bath would not have devised
as good?

The dances of those days must have been somewhat tedious. They began with a series of minuets,
in which, of course, only one couple danced at a time, the most distinguished opening the ball.
These solemn performances lasted about two hours, and we can easily imagine that the rest of
the company were delighted when the country dances, which included everybody, began. The ball
opened at six; the country dances began at eight: at nine there was a lull for the gentlemen
to offer their partners tea; in due course the dances were resumed, and at eleven Nash held
up his hand to the musicians, and under no circumstances was the ball allowed to continue after
that hour. Nash well knew the value of early hours to invalids, and he would not destroy the
healing reputation of Bath for the sake of a little more pleasure. On one occasion the Princess
Amelia implored him to allow one dance more. The despot replied, that his laws were those of
Lycurgus, and could not be abrogated for any one. By this we see that the M.C. was already
an autocrat in his kingdom.

Nor is it to be supposed that his majesty's laws were confined to such merely professional
arrangements. Not a bit of it; in a very short time his impudence gave him undenied right of
interference with the coats and gowns, the habits and manners, even the daily actions of his
subjects, for so the visitors at Bath were compelled to become. Si parvis componere magna recibit,
we may admit that the rise of Nash and that of Napoleon were owing to similar causes. The French
emperor found France in a state of disorder, with which sensible people were growing more and
more disgusted; he offered to restore order and propriety; the French hailed him, and gladly
submitted to his early decrees; then, when he had got them into the habit of obedience, he
could make what laws he liked, and use his power without fear of opposition. The Bath emperor
followed the same course, and it may be asked whether it does not demand as great an amount
of courage, assurance, perseverance, and administrative power to subdue several hundreds of
English ladies and gentlemen as to rise supreme above some millions of French republicans.
Yet Nash experienced less opposition than Napoleon; Nash reigned longer, and had no infernal
machine prepared to blow him up.

Everybody was delighted with the improvements in the Pump-room, the balls, the promenades,
the chairmen--the Rouge ruffians of the mimic kingdom--whom he reduced to submission, and therefore
nobody complained when Emperor Nash went further, and made war upon the white aprons of the
ladies and the boots of the gentlemen. The society was in fact in a very barbarous condition
at the time, and people who came for pleasure liked to be at ease. Thus ladies lounged into
the balls in their riding-hoods or morning dresses, gentlemen in boots, with their pipes in
their mouths. Such atrocities were intolerable to the late frequenter of London society, and
in his imperious arrogance, the new monarch used actually to pull off the white aprons of ladies
who entered the assembly-rooms with that dégagé article, and throw them upon the back seats.
Like the French emperor, again, he treated high and low in the same manner, and when the Duchess
of Queensberry appeared in an apron, coolly pulled it off, and told her it was only fit for
a maid-servant. Her grace made no resistance.

His next onslaught was upon that of carrying swords; and in this respect Nash became a public
benefactor, for in those days, though Chesterfield was the writer on etiquette, people were
not well-bred enough to keep their tempers, and rivals for a lady's hand at a minuet, or gamblers
who disputed over their cards, invariably settled the matter by an option between suicide or
murder under the polite name of duel. The M.C. wisely saw that these affairs would bring Bath
in bad repute, and determined to supplant the rapier by the less dangerous cane. In this he
was for a long time opposed, until a notorious torchlight duel between two gamblers, of whom
one was run through the body, and the other, to show his contrition, turned Quaker, brought
his opponents to a sense of the danger of a weapon always at hand; and henceforth the sword
was abolished.

These points gained, the autocrat laid down rules for the employment of the visitors' time,
and these, from setting the fashion to some, soon became a law to all. The first thing to be
done was, sensibly enough, the ostensible object of their residence in Bath, the use of the
baths. At an early hour four lusty chairmen waited on every lady to carry her, wrapped in flannels,
in

    'A little black box, just the size of a coffin,'

to one of the five baths. Here, on entering, an attendant placed beside her a floating tray,
on which were set her handkerchief, bouquet, and snuff-box, for our great-great-grandmothers
did take snuff; and here she found her friends in the same bath of naturally hot water. It
was, of course, a réunion for society on the plea of health; but the early hours and exercise
secured the latter, whatever the baths may have done. A walk in the Pump-room, to the music
of a tolerable band, was the next measure; and there, of course, the gentlemen mingled with
the ladies. A coffee-house was ready to receive those of either sex; for that was a time when
madame and miss lived a great deal in public, and English people were not ashamed of eating
their breakfast in public company. These breakfasts were often enlivened by concerts paid for
by the rich and enjoyed by all.

Supposing the peacocks now to be dressed out and to have their tails spread to the best advantage,
we next find some in the public promenades, others in the reading-rooms, the ladies having
their clubs as well as the men; others riding; others, perchance, already gambling. Mankind
and womankind then dined at a reasonable hour, and the evening's amusements began early. Nash
insisted on this, knowing the value of health to those, and they were many at that time, who
sought Bath on its account. The balls began at six, and took place every Tuesday and Friday,
private balls filling up the vacant nights. About the commencement of his reign, a theatre
was built, and whatever it may have been, it afterwards became celebrated as the nursery of
the London stage, and now, O tempo passato! is almost abandoned. It is needless to add that
the gaming-tables were thronged in the evenings.

It was at them that Nash made the money which sufficed to keep up his state, which was vulgarly
regal. He drove about in a chariot, flaming with heraldry, and drawn by six grays, with outriders,
running footmen, and all the appendages which made an impression on the vulgar minds of the
visitors of his kingdom. His dress was magnificent; his gold lace unlimited, his coats ever
new; his hat alone was always of the same colour--white; and as the emperor Alexander was distinguished
by his purple tunic and Brummell by his bow, Emperor Nash was known all England over by his
white hat.

It is due to the King of Bath to say that, however much he gained, he always played fair. He
even patronized young players, and after fleecing them, kindly advised them to play no more.
When he found a man fixed upon ruining himself, he did his best to keep him from that suicidal
act. This was the case with a young Oxonian, to whom he had lost money, and whom he invited
to supper, in order to give him his parental advice. The fool would not take the Beau's counsel
and 'came to grief.' Even noblemen sought his protection. The Duke of Beaufort entered on a
compact with him to save his purse, if not his soul. He agreed to pay Nash ten thousand guineas,
whenever he lost the same amount at a sitting. It was a comfortable treaty for our Beau, who
accordingly watched his grace. Yet it must be said, to Nash's honour, that he once saved him
from losing eleven thousand, when he had already lost eight, by reminding him of his compact.
Such was play in those days! It is said that the duke had afterwards to pay the fine, from
losing the stipulated sum at Newmarket.

He displayed as much honesty with the young Lord Townshend, who lost him his whole fortune,
his estate, and even his carriage and horses--what madmen are gamblers!--and actually cancelled
the whole debt, on condition my lord should pay him £5000 whenever he chose to claim it. To
Nash's honour it must be said that he never came down upon the nobleman during his life. He
claimed the sum from his executors, who paid it.--'Honourable to both parties.'

But an end was put to the gaming at Bath and everywhere else--except in a royal palace, and
Nash swore that, as he was a king, Bath came under the head of the exceptions--by an Act of
Parliament. Of course Nash and the sharpers who frequented Bath--and their name was Legion--found
means to evade this law for a time, by the invention of new games. But this could not last,
and the Beau's fortune went with the death of the dice.

Still, however, the very prohibition increased the zest for play for a time, and Nash soon
discovered that a private table was more comfortable than a public one. He entered into an
arrangement with an old woman at Bath, in virtue of which he was to receive a fourth share
of the profits. This was probably not the only 'hell'-keeping transaction of his life, and
he had once before quashed an action against a cheat in consideration of a handsome bonus;
and, in fact, there is no saying what amount of dirty work Nash would not have done for a hundred
or so, especially when the game of the table was shut up to him. The man was immensely fond
of money; he liked to show his gold-laced coat and superb new waistcoat in the Grove, the Abbey
Ground, and Bond Street, and to be known as Le Grand Nash. But, on the other hand, he did not
love money for itself, and never hoarded it. It is, indeed, something to Nash's honour, that
he died poor. He delighted, in the poverty of his mind, to display his great thick-set person
to the most advantage; he was as vain as any fop, without the affectation of that character,
for he was always blunt and free-spoken, but, as long as he had enough to satisfy his vanity,
he cared nothing for mere wealth. He had generosity, though he neglected the precept about
the right hand and the left, and showed some ostentation in his charities. When a poor ruined
fellow at his elbow saw him win at a throw £200, and murmured 'How happy that would make me!'
Nash tossed the money to him, and said, 'Go and be happy then.' Probably the witless beau did
not see the delicate satire implied in his speech. It was only the triumph of a gamester. On
other occasions he collected subscriptions for poor curates, and so forth, in the same spirit,
and did his best towards founding an hospital, which has since proved of great value to those
afflicted with rheumatic gout. In the same spirit, though himself a gamester, he often attempted
to win young and inexperienced boys, who came to toss away their money at the rooms, from seeking
their own ruin; and, on the whole, there was some goodness of heart in this gold-laced bear.

That he was a bear there are anecdotes enough to show, and whether true or not, they sufficiently
prove what the reputation of the man must have been. Thus, when a lady, afflicted with a curvature
of the spine, told him that 'She had come straight from London that day,' Nash replied with
utter heartlessness, 'Then, ma'am, you've been damnably warpt on the road.' The lady had her
revenge, however, for meeting the beau one day in the Grove, as she toddled along with her
dog, and being impudently asked by him if she knew the name of Tobit's dog, she answered quickly,
'Yes, sir, his name was Nash, and a most impudent dog he was too.'

It is due to Nash to state that he made many attempts to put an end to the perpetual system
of scandal, which from some hidden cause seems always to be connected with mineral springs;
but as he did not banish the old maids, of course he failed. Of the young ladies and their
reputation he took a kind of paternal care, and in that day they seem to have needed it, for
even at nineteen, those who had any money to lose, staked it at the tables with as much gusto
as the wrinkled, puckered, greedy-eyed 'single woman,' of a certain or uncertain age. Nash
protected and cautioned them, and even gave them the advantage of his own unlimited experience.
Witness, for instance, the care he took of 'Miss Sylvia,' a lovely heiress who brought her
face and her fortune to enslave some and enrich others of the loungers of Bath. She had a terrible
love of hazard, and very little prudence, so that Nash's good offices were much needed in the
case. The young lady soon became the standing toast at all the clubs and suppers, and lovers
of her, or her ducats, crowded round her; but though at that time she might have made a brilliant
match, she chose, as young women will do, to fix her affections upon one of the worst men in
Bath, who, naturally enough, did not return them. When this individual, as a climax to his
misadventures, was clapt into prison, the devoted young creature gave the greater part of her
fortune in order to pay off his debts, and falling into disrepute from this act of generosity,
which was, of course, interpreted after a worldly fashion, she seems to have lost her honour
with her fame, and the fair Sylvia took a position which could not be creditable to her. At
last the poor girl, weary of slights, and overcome with shame, took her silk sash and hanged
herself. The terrible event made a nine hours'--not nine days'--sensation in Bath, which was
too busy with mains and aces to care about the fate of one who had long sunk out of its circles.

When Nash reached the zenith of his power, the adulation he received was somewhat of a parody
on the flattery of courtiers. True, he had his bards from Grub Street who sang his praises,
and he had letters to show from Sarah of Marlborough and others of that calibre, but his chief
worshippers were cooks, musicians, and even imprisoned highwaymen--one of whom disclosed the
secrets of the craft to him--who wrote him dedications, letters, poems, and what not. He had
in early life had one attachment, besides that unfortunate affair for which his friends had
removed him from Oxford, and in that had behaved with great magnanimity. The young lady had
honestly told him that he had a rival; the Beau sent for him, settled on her a fortune equal
to that her father intended for her, and himself presented her to the favoured suitor. Now,
however, he seems to have given up all thoughts of matrimony, and gave himself up to mistresses,
who cared more for his gold than for himself. It was an awkward conclusion to Nash's generous
act in that one case, that before a year had passed, the bride ran away with her husband's
footman; yet, though it disgusted him with ladies, it does not seem to have cured him of his
attachment to the sex in general.

In the height of his glory Nash was never ashamed of receiving adulation. He was as fond of
flattery as Le Grand Monarque--and he paid for it too--whether it came from a prince or a chair-man.
Every day brought him some fresh meed of praise in prose or verse, and Nash was always delighted.

But his sun was to set in time. His fortune went when gaming was put down, for he had no other
means of subsistence. Yet he lived on: he had not the good sense to die; and he reached the
patriarchal age of eighty-seven. In his old age he was not only garrulous, but bragging: he
told stories of his exploits, in which he, Mr. Richard Nash, came out as the first swordsman,
swimmer, leaper, and what not. But by this time people began to doubt Mr. Richard Nash's long-bow,
and the yarns he spun were listened to with impatience. He grew rude and testy in his old age;
suspected Quin, the actor, who was living at Bath, of an intention to supplant him; made coarse,
impertinent repartees to the visitors at that city, and in general raised up a dislike to himself.
Yet, as other monarchs have had their eulogists in sober mind, Nash had his in one of the most
depraved; and Anstey, the low-minded author of 'The New Bath Guide,' panegyrized him a short
time after his death in the following verses:--

    'Yet here no confusion--no tumult is known;
     Fair order and beauty establish their throne;
     For order, and beauty, and just regulation,
     Support all the works of this ample creation.
     For this, in compassion to mortals below,
     The gods, their peculiar favour to show,
     Sent Hermes to Bath in the shape of a beau:
     That grandson of Atlas came down from above
     To bless all the regions of pleasure and love;
     To lead the fair nymph thro' the various maze,
     Bright beauty to marshal, his glory and praise;
     To govern, improve, and adorn the gay scene,
     By the Graces instructed, and Cyprian queen:
     As when in a garden delightful and gay,
     Where Flora is wont all her charms to display,
     The sweet hyacinthus with pleasure we view,
     Contend with narcissus in delicate hue;
     The gard'ner, industrious, trims out his border,
     Puts each odoriferous plant in its order;
     The myrtle he ranges, the rose and the lily,
     With iris, and crocus, and daffa-down-dilly;
     Sweet peas and sweet oranges all he disposes,
     At once to regale both your eyes and your noses.
     Long reign'd the great Nash, this omnipotent lord,
     Respected by youth, and by parents ador'd;
     For him not enough at a ball to preside,
     The unwary and beautiful nymph would he guide;
     Oft tell her a tale, how the credulous maid
     By man, by perfidious man, is betrayed:
     Taught Charity's hand to relieve the distrest,
     While tears have his tender compassion exprest;
     But alas! he is gone, and the city can tell
     How in years and in glory lamented he fell.
     Him mourn'd all the Dryads on Claverton's mount;
     Him Avon deplor'd, him the nymph of the fount,
     The crystalline streams.
     Then perish his picture--his statue decay--
     A tribute more lasting the Muses shall pay.
     If true, what philosophers all will assure us,
     Who dissent from the doctrine of great Epicurus,
     That the spirit's immortal (as poets allow):
     In reward of his labours, his virtue and pains,
     He is footing it now in the Elysian plains,
     Indulged, as a token of Proserpine's favour,
     To preside at her balls in a cream-colour'd beaver.
     Then peace to his ashes--our grief be supprest,
     Since we find such a phoenix has sprung from his nest;
     Kind heaven has sent us another professor,
     Who follows the steps of his great predecessor.'

The end of the Bath Beau was somewhat less tragical than that of his London successor--Brummell.
Nash, in his old age and poverty, hung about the clubs and supper-tables, button-holed youngsters,
who thought him a bore, spun his long yarns, and tried to insist on obsolete fashions, when
near the end of his life's century.

The clergy took more care of him than the youngsters. They heard that Nash was an octogenarian,
and likely to die in his sins, and resolved to do their best to shrive him. Worthy and well-meaning
men accordingly wrote him long letters, in which there was a deal of warning, and there was
nothing which Nash dreaded so much. As long as there was immediate fear of death, he was pious
and humble; the moment the fear had passed, he was jovial and indifferent again. His especial
delight, to the last, seems to have been swearing against the doctors, whom he treated like
the individual in Anstey's 'Bath Guide,' shying their medicines out of window upon their own
heads. But the wary old Beckoner called him in, in due time, with his broken, empty-chested
voice; and Nash was forced to obey. Death claimed him--and much good it got of him--in 1761,
at the age of eighty-seven: there are few beaux who lived so long.

Thus ended a life, of which the moral lay, so to speak, out of it. The worthies of Bath were
true to the worship of Folly, whom Anstey so well, though indelicately, describes as there
conceiving Fashion; and though Nash, old, slovenly, disrespected, had long ceased to be either
beau or monarch, treated his huge unlovely corpse with the honour due to the great--or little.
His funeral was as glorious as that of any hero, and far more showy, though much less solemn,
than the burial of Sir John Moore. Perhaps for a bit of prose flummery, by way of contrast
to Wolfe's lines on the latter event, there is little to equal the account in a contemporary
paper:--'Sorrow sate upon every face, and even children lisped that their sovereign was no
more. The awfulness of the solemnity made the deepest impression on the minds of the distressed
inhabitants. The peasant discontinued his toil, the ox rested from the plough, all nature seemed
to sympathise with their loss, and the muffled bells rung a peal of bob-major.'

The Beau left little behind him, and that little not worth much, even including his renown.
Most of the presents which fools or flatterers had made him, had long since been sent chèz
ma tante; a few trinkets and pictures, and a few books, which probably he had never read, constituted
his little store.[21]

Bath and Tunbridge--for he had annexed that lesser kingdom to his own--had reason to mourn
him, for he had almost made them what they were; but the country has not much cause to thank
the upholder of gaming, the institutor of silly fashion, and the high-priest of folly. Yet
Nash was free from many vices we should expect to find in such a man. He did not drink, for
instance; one glass of wine, and a moderate quantity of small beer, being his allowance for
dinner. He was early in his hours, and made others sensible in theirs. He was generous and
charitable when he had the money; and when he had not he took care to make his subjects subscribe
it. In a word, there have been worse men and greater fools; and we may again ask whether those
who obeyed and flattered him were not more contemptible than Beau Nash himself.

So much for the powers of impudence and a fine coat!

If an illustration were wanted of that character unstable as water which shall not excel, this
duke would at once supply it: if we had to warn genius against self-indulgence--some clever
boy against extravagance--some poet against the bottle--this is the 'shocking example' we should
select: if we wished to show how the most splendid talents, the greatest wealth, the most careful
education, the most unusual advantages, may all prove useless to a man who is too vain or too
frivolous to use them properly, it is enough to cite that nobleman, whose acts gained for him
the name of the infamous Duke of Wharton. Never was character more mercurial, or life more
unsettled than his; never, perhaps, were more changes crowded into a fewer number of years,
more fame and infamy gathered into so short a space.

Philip, Duke of Wharton, was one of those men of whom an Irishman would say, that they were
fortunate before they were born. His ancestors bequeathed him a name that stood high in England
for bravery and excellence. The first of the house, Sir Thomas Wharton, had won his peerage
from Henry VIII. for routing some 15,000 Scots with 500 men, and other gallant deeds. From
his father the marquis he inherited much of his talents; but for the heroism of the former,
he seems to have received it only in the extravagant form of foolhardiness. Walpole remembered,
but could not tell where, a ballad he wrote on being arrested by the guard in St. James's Park,
for singing the Jacobite song, 'The King shall have his own again,' and quotes two lines to
show that he was not ashamed of his own cowardice on the occasion:--

    'The duke he drew out half his sword,
     ---- the guard drew out the rest.'

At the siege of Gibraltar, where he took up arms against his own king and country, he is said
to have gone alone one night to the very walls of the town, and challenged the outpost. They
asked him who he was, and when he replied, openly enough, 'The Duke of Wharton,' they actually
allowed him to return without either firing on or capturing him. The story seems somewhat apocryphal,
but it is quite possible that the English soldiers may have refrained from violence to a well-known
mad-cap nobleman of their own nation.

Philip, son of the Marquis of Wharton, at that time only a baron, was born in the last year
but one of the seventeenth century, and came into the world endowed with every quality which
might have made a great man, if he had only added wisdom to them. His father wished to make
him a brilliant statesman, and, to have a better chance of doing so, kept him at home, and
had him educated under his own eye. He seems to have easily and rapidly acquired a knowledge
of classical languages; and his memory was so good that when a boy of thirteen he could repeat
the greater part of the 'Æneid' and of Horace by heart. His father's keen perception did not
allow him to stop at classics; and he wisely prepared him for the career to which he was destined
by the study of history, ancient and modern, and of English literature, and by teaching him,
even at that early age, the art of thinking and writing on any given subject, by proposing
themes for essays. There is certainly no surer mode of developing the reflective and reasoning
powers of the mind; and the boy progressed with a rapidity which was almost alarming. Oratory,
too, was of course cultivated, and to this end the young nobleman was made to recite before
a small audience passages from Shakspeare, and even speeches which had been delivered in the
House of Lords, and we may be certain he showed no bashfulness in this display.

He was precocious beyond measure, and at sixteen was a man. His first act of folly--or, perhaps,
he thought, of manhood--came off at this early age. He fell in love with the daughter of a
Major-General Holmes; and though there is nothing extraordinary in that, for nine-tenths of
us have been love-mad at as early an age, he did what fortunately very few do in a first love
affair, he married the adored one. Early marriages are often extolled, and justly enough, as
safeguards against profligate habits, but this one seems to have had the contrary effect on
young Philip. His wife was in every sense too good for him: he was madly in love with her at
first, but soon shamefully and openly faithless. Pope's line--

    'A tyrant to the wife his heart approved,'

requires explanation here. It is said that she did not present her boy-husband with a son for
three years after their marriage, and on this child he set great value and great hopes. About
that time he left his wife in the country, intending to amuse himself in town, and ordered
her to remain behind with the child. The poor deserted woman well knew what was the real object
of this journey, and could not endure the separation. In the hope of keeping her young husband
out of harm, and none the less because she loved him very tenderly, she followed him soon after,
taking the little Marquis of Malmsbury, as the young live branch was called, with her. The
duke was, of course, disgusted, but his anger was turned into hatred, when the child, which
he had hoped to make his heir and successor, caught in town the small-pox, and died in infancy.
He was furious with his wife, refused to see her for a long time, and treated her with unrelenting
coldness.

The early marriage was much to the distaste of Philip's father, who had been lately made a
marquis, and who hoped to arrange a very grand 'alliance' for his petted son. He was, in fact,
so much grieved by it, that he was fool enough to die of it in 1715, and the marchioness survived
him only about a year, being no less disgusted with the licentiousness which she already discovered
in her Young Hopeful.

She did what she could to set him right, and the young married man was shipped off with a tutor,
a French Huguenot, who was to take him to Geneva to be educated as a Protestant and a Whig.
The young scamp declined to be either. He was taken, by way of seeing the world, to the petty
courts of Germany, and of course to that of Hanover, which had kindly sent us the worst family
that ever disgraced the English throne, and by the various princes and grand-dukes received
with all the honours due to a young British nobleman.

The tutor and his charge settled at last at Geneva, and my young lord amused himself with tormenting
his strict guardian. Walpole tells us that he once roused him out of bed only to borrow a pin.
The Chevalier de St. George, the Old Pretender, James III., or by whatever other alias you
prefer to call him, having failed in his attempt 'to have his own again' in the preceding year,
was then holding high court in high dudgeon at Avignon. Any adherent would, of course, be welcomed
with open arms; and when the young marquis wrote to him to offer his allegiance, sending with
his letter a fine entire horse as a peace offering, he was warmly responded to. A person of
rank was at once despatched to bring the youth to the ex-regal court; he was welcomed with
much enthusiasm, and the empty title of Duke of Northumberland at once, most kindly, conferred
on him. However, the young marquis does not seem to have goûté the exile's court, for he stayed
there one day only, and returning to Lyons, set off to enjoy himself at Paris. With much wit,
no prudence, and a plentiful supply of money, which he threw about with the recklessness of
a boy just escaped from his tutor, he could not fail to succeed in that capital; and, accordingly,
the English received him with open arms. Even the ambassador, Lord Stair, though he had heard
rumours of his wild doings, invited him repeatedly to dinner, and did his best, by advice and
warning, to keep him out of harm's way. Young Philip had a horror of preceptors, paid or gratuitous,
and treated the plenipotentiary with the same coolness as he had served the Huguenot tutor.

His frolics at Paris were of the most reckless character for a young nobleman. At the ambassador's
own table he would occasionally send a servant to some one of the guests, to ask him to join
in the Old Chevalier's health, though it was almost treason at that time to mention his name
even. And again, when the windows at the embassy had been broken by a young English Jacobite,
who was forthwith committed to Fort l'Evêque, the hare-brained marquis proposed, out of revenge,
to break them a second time, and only abandoned the project because he could get no one to
join him in it. Lord Stair, however, had too much sense to be offended at the follies of a
boy of seventeen, even though that boy was the representative of a great English family; he,
probably, thought it would be better to recall him to his allegiance by kindness and advice,
than, by resenting his behaviour, to drive him irrevocably to the opposite party; but he was
doubtless considerably relieved when, after leading a wild life in the capital of France, spending
his money lavishly, and doing precisely everything which a young English nobleman ought not
to do, my lord marquis took his departure in December, 1716.

The political education he had received now made the unstable youth ready and anxious to shine
in the State; but being yet under age, he could not, of course, take his seat in the House
of Lords. Perhaps he was conscious of his own wonderful abilities; perhaps, as Pope declares,
he was thirsting for praise, and wished to display them; certainly he was itching to become
an orator, and as he could not sit in an English Parliament, he remembered that he had a peerage
in Ireland, as Earl of Rathfernhame and Marquis of Catherlogh, and off he set to see if the
Milesians would stand upon somewhat less ceremony. He was not disappointed there. But whether
he paid Gordon on his return to England--which is highly improbable--or whether he had not
honour enough to keep his compact--which is extremely likely--there is no doubt that my lord
marquis began, at this period, to qualify himself for the post of parish-weathercock to St.
Stephens.

His early defection to a man who, whether rightful heir or not, had that of romance in his
history which is even now sufficient to make our young ladies 'thorough Jacobites' at heart,
was easily to be excused, on the plea of youth and high spirit. The same excuse does not explain
his rapid return to Whiggery--in which there is no romance at all--the moment he took his seat
in the Irish House of Lords. There is only one way to explain the zeal with which he now advocated
the Orange cause: he must have been either a very designing knave, or a very unprincipled fool.
As he gained nothing by the change but a dukedom for which he did not care, and as he cared
for little else that the government could give him, we may acquit him of any very deep motives.
On the other hand, his life and some of his letters show that, with a vast amount of bravado,
he was sufficiently a coward. When supplicated, he was always obstinate; when neglected, always
supplicant. Now it required some courage in those days to be a Jacobite. Perhaps he cared for
nothing but to astonish and disgust everybody with the facility with which he could turn his
coat, as a hippodromist does with the ease with which he changes his costume. He was a boy
and a peer, and he would make pretty play of his position. He had considerable talents, and
now, as he sat in the Irish House, devoted them entirely to the support of the government.

For the next four years he was employed, on the one hand in political, on the other in profligate,
life. He shone in both; and was no less admired, by the wits of those days, for his speeches,
his arguments, and his zeal, than for the utter disregard of public decency he displayed in
his vices. Such a promising youth, adhering to the government, merited some mark of its esteem,
and accordingly, before attaining the age of twenty-one, he was raised to a dukedom. Being
of age, he took his seat in the English House of Lords, and had not been long there before
he again turned coat, and came out in the light of a Jacobite hero. It was now that he gathered
most of his laurels.

The Hanoverian monarch had been on the English throne some six years. Had the Chevalier's attempt
occurred at this period, it may be doubted if it would not have been successful. The 'Old Pretender'
came too soon, the 'Young Pretender' too late. At the period of the first attempt, the public
had had no time to contrast Stuarts and Guelphs: at that of the second, they had forgotten
the one and grown accustomed to the other; but at the moment when our young duke appeared on
the boards of the senate, the vices of the Hanoverians were beginning to draw down on them
the contempt of the educated and the ridicule of the vulgar; and perhaps no moment could have
been more favourable for advocating a restoration of the Stuarts. If Wharton had had as much
energy and consistency as he had talent and impudence, he might have done much towards that
desirable, or undesirable end.

The grand question at this time before the House was the trial of Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester,
demanded by Sir Robert Walpole. The man had a spirit almost as restless as his defender. The
son of a man who might have been the original of the Vicar of Bray, he was very little of a
poet, less of a priest, but a great deal of a politician. He was born in 1662, so that at this
time he must have been nearly sixty years old. He had had by no means a hard life of it, for
family interest, together with eminent talents, procured him one appointment after another,
till he reached the bench at the age of fifty-one, in the reign of Anne. He had already distinguished
himself in several ways, most, perhaps, by controversies with Hoadly, and by sundry high-church
motions. But after his elevation, he displayed his principles more boldly, refused to sign
the Declaration of the Bishops, which was somewhat servilely made to assure George the First
of the fidelity of the Established Church, suspended the curate of Gravesend for three years
because he allowed the Dutch to have a service performed in his church, and even, it is said,
on the death of Anne, offered to proclaim King James III., and head a procession himself in
his lawn sleeves. The end of this and other vagaries was, that in 1722, the Government sent
him to the Tower, on suspicion of being connected with a plot in favour of the Old Chevalier.
The case excited no little attention, for it was long since a bishop had been charged with
high treason; it was added that his gaolers used him rudely; and, in short, public sympathy
rather went along with him for a time. In March, 1723, a bill was presented to the Commons,
for 'inflicting certain pains and penalties' on Francis, Lord Bishop of Rochester, and it passed
that House in April; but when carried up to the Lords, a defence was resolved on. The bill
was read a third time on May 15th, and on that occasion the Duke of Wharton, then only twenty-four
years old, rose and delivered a speech in favour of the bishop. This oration far more resembled
that of a lawyer summing up the evidence than of a parliamentary orator enlarging on the general
issue. It was remarkable for the clearness of its argument, the wonderful memory of facts it
displayed, and the ease and rapidity with which it annihilated the testimony of various witnesses
examined before the House. It was mild and moderate, able and sufficient, but seems to have
lacked all the enthusiasm we might expect from one who was afterwards so active a partisan
of the Chevalier's cause. In short, striking as it was, it cannot be said to give the duke
any claim to the title of a great orator; it would rather prove that he might have made a first-rate
lawyer. It shows, however, that had he chosen to apply himself diligently to politics, he might
have turned out a great leader of the Opposition.

Neither this speech nor the bishop's able defence saved him; and in the following month he
was banished the kingdom, and passed the rest of his days in Paris.

Wharton, however, was not content with the House as an arena of political agitation. He was
now old enough to have matured his principles thoroughly, and he completely espoused the cause
of the exiled family. He amused himself with agitating throughout the country, influencing
elections, and seeking popularity by becoming a member of the Wax-chandlers' Company. It is
a proof of his great abilities, so shamefully thrown away, that he now, during the course of
eight months, issued a paper, called 'The True Briton,' every Monday and Friday, written by
himself, and containing varied and sensible arguments in support of his opinions, if not displaying
any vast amount of original genius. This paper, on the model of 'The Tatler,' 'The Spectator,'
&c., had a considerable sale, and attained no little celebrity, so that the Duke of Wharton
acquired the reputation of a literary man as well as of a political leader.

But, whatever he might have been in either capacity, his disgraceful life soon destroyed all
hope of success in them. He was now an acknowledged wit about town, and what was then almost
a recognized concomitant of that character, an acknowledged profligate. He scattered his large
fortune in the most reckless and foolish manner: though married, his moral conduct was as bad
as that of any bachelor of the day: and such was his extravagance and open licentiousness,
that, having wasted a princely revenue, he was soon caught in the meshes of Chancery, which
very sensibly vested his fortune in the hands of trustees, and compelled him to be satisfied
with an income of twelve hundred pounds a year.

The young rascal now showed hypocritical signs of penitence--he was always an adept in that
line--and protested he would go abroad and live quietly, till his losses should be retrieved.
There is little doubt that, under this laudable design, he concealed one of attaching himself
closer to the Chevalier party, and even espousing the faith of that unfortunate prince, or
pretender, whichever he may have been. He set off for Vienna, leaving his wife behind to die,
in April, 1726. He had long since quarrelled with her, and treated her with cruel neglect,
and at her death he was not likely to be much afflicted. It is said, that, after that event,
a ducal family offered him a daughter and large fortune in marriage, and that the Duke of Wharton
declined the offer, because the latter was to be tied up, and he could not conveniently tie
up the former. However this may be, he remained a widower for a short time: we may be sure,
not long.

The hypocrisy of going abroad to retrench was not long undiscovered. The fascinating scapegrace
seems to have delighted in playing on the credulity of others; and Walpole relates that, on
the eve of the day on which he delivered his famous speech for Atterbury, he sought an interview
with the minister, Sir Robert Walpole, expressed great contrition at having espoused the bishop's
cause hitherto, and a determination to speak against him the following day. The minister was
taken in, and at the duke's request, supplied him with all the main arguments, pro and con.
The deceiver, having got these well into his brain--one of the most retentive--repaired to
his London haunts, passed the night in drinking, and the next day produced all the arguments
he had digested, in the bishop's favour.

At Vienna he was well received, and carried out his private mission successfully, but was too
restless to stay in one place, and soon set off for Madrid. Tired now of politics, he took
a turn at love. He was a poet after a fashion, for the pieces he has left are not very good:
he was a fine gentleman, always spending more money than he had, and is said to have been handsome.
His portraits do not give us this impression: the features are not very regular; and though
not coarse, are certainly not refined. The mouth, somewhat sensual, is still much firmer than
his character would lead us to expect; the nose sharp at the point, but cogitative at the nostrils;
the eyes long but not large; while the raised brow has all that openness which he displayed
in the indecency of his vices, but not in any honesty in his political career. In a word, the
face is not attractive. Yet he is described as having had a brilliant complexion, a lively,
varying expression, and a charm of person and manner that was quite irresistible. Whether on
this account, or for his talents and wit, which were really shining, his new Juliet fell as
deeply in love with him as he with her.

