PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

March 28, 1891.

THE G.P.O. CUCKOO.

  It was a gallant Postmaster that armed him for the fray,
  And, oh, his eyes were gleaming as he summoned his array;
  To North and South the message went, to W. and E.,
  And where, 'mid piles of ledgers, men make money in E.C.;
  From Highgate Hill to Putney one cry the echoes wakes.
  As the Postmen don their uniforms and shout aloud for RAIKES.

  "Brave Postmen," spake an officer, who gazed upon the throng,
  "Ye tramp the streets by day and night, your hours are very long;
  Yet since you love the G.P.O. that thus your feet employs,
  We must not see you flouted by a perky pack of hoys.
  Swift rally round the Master who quavers not nor quakes,
  Our Red Knight of the Pillar-Box, the adamantine RAIKES.

  "What? 'The Public want the Messengers'? We'll teach the Public sense,
  Which consists in looking pleasant while we pocket all their pence.
  Though the papers rave, we care not for their chatter and their fuss.
  They must keep at home their messages, or send them all through Us.
  And we'll crush these boy-intruders as a mongoose crushes snakes.
  They have sown, but we shall reap it--'tis the will of Mr. RAIKES."

         *       *       *       *       *

  But Punch was there, and listened, and his angry face grew red,
  Like the tape that RAIKES delights in, and he shook his ancient head,
  "RAIKES," he cried, "I doubt your wisdom, and I much incline to scorn
  Those who trespass on their neighbour's land, and cart away his corn.
  Let the man who makes the oven and laboriously bakes
  Take the profit on the loaves he sells, nor yield it all to RAIKES.

  "You say you'll do the thing yourself: Monopoly decrees
  That, if boys go making honey, they must lose it, like the bees.
  But, oh, be warned, my Postmaster, it's not a pleasant thing
  To incur a bee's resentment and to suffer from its sting:
  And (to change my humble parallel) I like not him who takes
  A nest prepared by others, like the Cuckoo-Postman RAIKES!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SOUND AND SAFE.--We hear that Mr. W.H. GRIFFITHS is to be the new Lessee of the Shaftesbury.
Years ago, to the popular inquiry, "Who's GRIFFITHS?" there was but one answer, "The Safe Man."
Good omen for the Shaftesbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAR BARRED!

    SCENE--A Parliamentary Committee Room. Committee sitting
    at horse-shoe table. Bar crowded at table covered with
    plans, custards, buns, agreements, and ginger-beer. Huge
    plans hanging to walls. View in distance of St. Thomas's
    Hospital. East-West Diddlesex Railway Extension Bill under
    consideration. Expert Witness standing at reading-desk under
    examination.

Junior Counsel (for Promoters). You have told us that there is a cutting at Burnt House Mill,
coloured red in plan--in your opinion do you think that the road passing; by Hoggsborough,
coloured green, could be so diverted as to avoid the necessity of throwing a bridge over the
River Crowe, coloured yellow?

Expert Witness (with great deliberation, and illustrating his remarks by references to a large
plan). In my opinion I think the necessity of building a bridge over the River Crowe may be
avoided by skirting the Swashbuckler Estate, and by making a new road that would cross the
proposed line by a level crossing at Twaddlecomb, and ultimately reach Market Goosebury, coloured
blue, by following the course of the Raisensworth, coloured black.

Junior Counsel. Thank you--that will do. [Sits down.

First Cross-Examining Q.C. (suddenly entering from another Committee Room, looking for his
Junior--aside). Where on earth have we got to?

Chairman of Committee. Is this witness cross-examined?

