In the flower where the father and mother part matures at the same time, self-fertilization
is the rule. Cross-fertilization occurs in instances where either the father part or mother
part ripen at different times, in these cases the pollen is carried from plant to plant by
the wind or by the nectar-seeking bees. These busy bees, with their fluffy little feet and
fuzzy coats, become completely covered with this all-important flower dust, and in seeking
nectar from other flowers they leave the "awakening dust" behind, and thus cross-fertilization
takes place; new types of babies are produced, new generations of fruits and flowers.

HOW MOTHER NATURE WORKS

Dr. Chadwick, in her Blossom Babies, gives us a beautiful recital concerning the fertilization
of plants, which provides an endless number of interesting stories. The water plants are very
interesting in that the pollen is just light enough to float on the exact level of the mother
part of the flower, otherwise fertilization could never take place, and there would be no more
lovely lilies. Long throated blossoms are fertilized by their attraction for certain moths
or humming birds who have long tongues. Mother Nature is exceedingly careful to reproduce her
children, and in every conceivable way she sees to it that her plant-seeds are fertilized and
distributed. We are all familiar with the dandelion and the thistle and a host of others which
fly through the air with actual plumes, some seeds fly with wings, such as the maple; other
seeds travel by clinging or sticking, such as the cockle burr; still others float and shoot;
while we all know about a lot of seeds that are good to eat, such as the nuts and fruits, as
well as many of the grains, such as corn, etc.

An incubator about hatching time is a wonderful object lesson in teaching the story of life.
Take the children to visit one and let them actually see the live baby chicks coming forth
from the seed-shells. Other wonderful lessons may be drawn from the mother horse or the mother
cow; and it is impossible to portray the close companionship, the sublime trust and confidence,
which exists between the mother and the child who have been bound together by these ties and
sentiments of truthfulness, trustfulness, and frankness.

THE SALMON FAMILY

The little fellow is daily learning that everything that grows comes from a seed, even the
salmon which was eaten at lunch yesterday was the text for an impressive story about Papa and
Mamma Salmon. In the beautiful Columbia river Mother Salmon is swimming about quietly seeking
a shallow place in the stream where she may deposit her cluster of baby seeds, which looks
very much like a mass of tapioca pudding as they gently sink to the bed of a shallow spot in
the river. There they lay "sound asleep" until Father Salmon, swimming by, is attracted to
the spot and, hesitating, talks something like this to himself: "Why the idea, here are some
helpless fish-baby seeds, they can't grow and develop without me, here they are sound asleep;"
and, nestling over them, he contributes the self-same and all important "something"--comparable
to the pollen of the plants--which wakes them up. In the case of the fish the "awakening" substance
is not in the form of a powder as in the plant world; but is in the form of a semi-liquid mass,
much resembling the white of an egg. The little seeds soon begin to tremble--begin to wake
up--and then begin to swell and grow and develop. In a few days what do you suppose happens
to these little bulging baby seeds? The very same thing that happened to the chick seed--they
burst and out come hundreds of cute little fish minnows. In just a few hours they are all swimming
about in a most wonderful fish-like manner.

EARLY QUESTIONS

Some day you will be surprised by your little child suddenly asking you some such question
as this: "Mother, where did I come from?" while in the same frank manner you reply: "Why from
your mamma, of course; where do you think you could have come from? Everything that grows comes
from its mamma--oranges, apples, radishes, cabbages, cats, dogs, and chickies--everything that
grows has to have a mamma and papa," and they are often satisfied with this answer for a long
time. No child should go to kindergarten without knowing that he came from his mother, and
this knowledge should come to him from his own mother's lips. These are different days than
those in which our grandmothers lived. The spirit of investigation and of inquiry is in the
air. The moving-picture show makes it necessary for children of nine or ten to understand these
things--to have a knowledge of certain of the conventionalities of life. Twenty years ago this
may not have been so necessary--the youth of that day might have waited several years longer
for certain phases of his sex instruction. It is highly important that this knowledge be obtained
from a wise and pure and sympathetic mind--from the child's own parents.

One mother put her little girl's questions off week after week, saying: "I will tell you when
you get older, dear--no, not now, dear; run away, you are not old enough to know such things,
you must forget about them." Thus the unprepared mother sought to gain time in which to consult
the doctor or the library. Finally the day came when the mother felt that she was sufficiently
wise to answer the query, "Where did I come from," and so with her heart in her throat she
approached her daughter, saying: "Come, Mary, mother is going to tell you all about it. I am
now ready to answer your question." Imagine her surprise and astonishment when Mary said: "Oh,
you needn't mind, mother, Kate told me all about it last week." Now the question in my mind
is: how did Kate tell her? How much unnecessary information did this older and experienced
Kate put into the pure mind of this innocent little girl?

ONE MOTHER'S AWAKENING

One mother in a western state--a county superintendent of schools--told us the following interesting
story of her own experience, which we think may be of help to some of our mother readers.

One morning her seven-year old son rushed into the house exclaiming: "Oh, mother, there is
a new calf out in the barn, and I know where it came from; I saw a wagon load of calves come
by here yesterday, and one of them must have dropped off, for it is right out there in the
barn with old Bess this minute."

The mother was very busy with her papers and her reports, and she let the incident pass with
a smile, thinking it was a very pretty little story. A week later the six-year old brother
came in saying: "Mother, I think there must have been another wagon load of calves passed by,
and one must have been lost off, for old Nell is cleaning up a little calf out in the barn
for all she is worth," while the older brother piped up: "Sure, it was another load of calves;
that is just exactly the way the other calf got here;" and the two little fellows went off
to school.

