Although our good natured captain laughed at this joke, I confess I could not; all the horrors
of impressment rushed on my mind. This mechanic may have left a wife and children, suffering
and starving, from having her husband and their father kidnapped, like a negro on the coast
of Guinea, and held in worse than negro slavery. But this is Old England, the residence of
liberty and equal laws; and the bulwark of our holy religion! The crimes of nations are punished
in this world; and we may venture to predict, that the impressment of seamen, and cruel military
punishments, will operate the downfal of this splendid imposter, whose proper emblem is a bloated
figure, seated on a throne, made of dead mens' bones, with a crown on its head, a sword in
one hand, and a cup filled with the tears of widows and orphans in the other.

Mr. Peel, a member of the British parliament, delivered an unfeeling speech relative to Ireland,
in which he speaks of their untameable ferocity, and systematic guilt, supported by perjury,
related this most affecting anecdote, which was to shew the feeling of abhorrence entertained
against those who gave evidence against those who were tried for resisting a government they
detested.--A man who was condemned to death was offered a pardon, on the condition that he
would give evidence, which they knew he could give, after having actually given a part of his
testimony, retracted it in open court; his wife, who was strongly attached to her husband,
having prayed him on her knees, with tears, that he would be hanged rather than give evidence.
The house burst out into a loud and general LAUGH!!!

Here was an heroic woman who leaves the wife of Brutus and of Poelus far behind her. If this
extraordinary and shockingly affecting scene had taken place in the Congress of the United
States of America, would it have excited LAUGHTER, or deep commisseration? Greater men than
members of parliament, can laugh at misery. See what Junius says of king George the 3d and
Chancellor York.

There is another Irish anecdote worth relating.--During the troubles in Ireland a Boy 16 years
old was seized by the military, who demanded of him to whom he belonged. He refused to tell.
They tied him up to the halberts, and he endured a severe whipping without confessing whom
he served. At length his sister, who was about 18, unable to endure the sight of his torture
any longer, run to the officer and told him that he was in the service of Mr. ---- a suspected
man. The brave boy damned his sister for a blabbing b-- for now said he the cause of Ireland
is betrayed and ruined. Here are traits of Spartan virtues, that a modern British house of
commons are past comprehending. A stronger proof of debasement cannot well be imagined in the
Senate of England.

We passed by Sheerness, and, in our passage to the Nore, came near several hulks filled with
convicts. We soon came along side the Leyden, an old Dutch 64, fitted up with births, eight
feet by six, so as to contain six persons; but they were nearly all filled by prisoners who
came before us, so that we were obliged to shirk wherever we could.

We found the captain of the Leyden very much such a man as the commander of the Malabar. Our
allowance of food was as short as he could make it, and our liquor ungenerous. He said we were
a damn set of rebel yankees that lived too well, which made us saucy. The first lieutenant
was a kind and humane gentleman, but his captain was the reverse. He would hear no complaints,
and threatened to put the bearer of them in irons.

The countenance, and whole form of this man was indicative of malice; his very step was that
of an abrupt and angry tyrant. His gloomy visage was that of an hardened jailor; and he bore
towards us the same sort of affection which we experienced from the refugees in Nova Scotia.--He
caused a marine to be most severely flogged for selling one of the prisoners a little tobacco,
which he saved out of his own allowance. The crew were forbidden to speak with any of us; but,
when they could with safety, they described him to be the most odious of tyrants, and the most
malicious of men. They said he never appeared pleased only when his men were suffering the
agonies of the boatswain's lashes. In this he resembled the demons among the damned.

Upon calling over our names, and parading ourselves before captain Davie, we could discover,
in a second, the harsh temper of the man. We at length weighed anchor, passed a fleet of men
of war, and in a few days arrived in Plymouth harbor. The captain went immediately on shore
and left the command to his worthy and humane lieutenant. The next day a great many boats came
off to us filled with Cyprian dames. They were, generally, healthy, rosy looking lasses. Their
number increased every hour, until there were as many on board of us as there were men. In
short, every man who paid the waterman half a crown had a wife; so that the ship, belonging
to the bulwark of our religion, exhibited such a scene as is described by the navigators, who
have visited the South-Sea Islands. We read, with surprise and pity, the conduct of the female
sex, when European ships visit the islands in the Pacific ocean;[O] and we are unwilling to
give credit to all we read, because we, Americans, never fail to annex the idea of modesty
to that of a woman; for female licentiousness is very rarely witnessed in the new world. This
has rendered the accounts of navigators, in a degree, incredible; but we see the same thing
in the ports of England--a land of Christians--renowned for its bishops and their church, and
for moral writings and sermons, and for their bible societies, and religious institutions,
and for their numerous moral essays, and chaste poetical writings. Yes, Christian reader! in
this religious island, whereof George the 3d is king, and Charlotte the queen, the young females
crowd the prison ships, and take for husbands the ragged American prisoners, provided they
can get a few shillings by it! What are we to think of the state of society in England, when
two or three sisters leave the house of their parents, and pass a week on board of a newly
arrived ship? What can be the sentiments of the daughters? What the feelings of their mothers,
their fathers, and their brothers? In the South Sea Islands, young females know not what modesty
means; neither that nor chastity is a virtue in those regions.[O] But it is not quite so in
England; there this lewd conduct is a mark of debasement, depravity and vice. The sea-ports
of England, and the streets of her capital, and, indeed, of all her large cities are filled
with handsome women, who offer themselves as wives to men they never saw before, for a few
shillings; and yet this is the country of which our reverend doctors, from the pulpit, assure
us, contains more religion and morality than any other of the same number of inhabitants; nay,
more, our governor has proclaimed it to the world over, as being the very "bulwark of the religion
we profess." If cruelty to prisoners, cruelty to their own soldiers, if kidnapping their mechanics,
by press gangs, if shocking barbarity be exercised towards prisoners, and if open, shameless
lewdness, mark and disgrace their sea-ports, their capital, and all their large cities, are
the modest and correct people, inhabiting the towns and villages of the United States, to be
affronted by being told publicly, that they have less religion, less morality than the people
of England? How long shall we continue to be abused by folly and presumption? We, Americans,
are yet a modest, clean, and moral people; as much so as the Swiss in Europe; and we feel ourselves
offended, and disgusted when our blind guides tell us to follow the example of the English
in their manners, and sexual conduct. Could I allow myself to particularise the conduct of
the fair sex, who crowd on board every recently arrived ship, and who swarm on the shores,
my readers would confess that few scenes of the kind could exceed it. The freedom of the American
press will give to posterity a just picture of British morals, in the reigns of George the
3d and 4th.

While laying in Plymouth harbor, we received the news of the capture of the City of Washington;
and the burning of its public buildings with the library. The burning of the public buildings
and the library of books at Washington has been execrated by all the civilized world. The British
are famous, or rather infamous for this barbarous mode of warfare. We find this passage in
Captain John Knox's historical Journal of the Campaigns in North America in 1758--"Brigadier
Wolfe has been also successful at Gaspe, and the N. N. E. parts of this province, (Nova Scotia)
he has burned, among other settlements a most valuable one called Mount St. Louis: the intendant
of the place offered 150,000 livres to ransom that town and its environs, which were nobly
rejected: all their magazines of corn, dried fish, barrelled eels, and other provisions which
they had for themselves, and other provisions for Quebec market, were all destroyed. Wherever
he went with his troops desolation followed."--And this, reader, was the glorious General Wolfe,
whom his barbarous nation, and our own fools have extolled to the skies in marble monuments,
and his sons. Cockburn was nothing compared with this immortal plunderer and burner of villages
and destroyer of the provisions laid up for the men, women and children of the French settlements
in Arcadia. General Wolfe perpetrated this savage deed in the latter end of November, 1758,
when the wretched inhabitants had a long and dreary winter before them. But Wolfe and Ross
were punished, by the just avenger.

"Capt. M'Curdie was killed by the falling of a tree on the 30th, and Lieut. Hazen commands
at present, who returned last night from a scout up this river: he went to St. Ann's and burnt
147 dwelling houses, 2 mass-houses, besides all their barns, stables, out-houses, granaries,
&c. He returned down the river about ---- where he found a house in a thick forest, with a
number of cattle, horses and hogs; these he destroyed. There was fire in the chimney; the people
were gone off into the woods; he pursued, killed and scalped six men, brought in four, with
two women and three children; he returned to the house, set it on fire, threw the cattle into
the flames, and arrived safe with his prisoners."--from page 230 of Captain Knox's Historical
Journal of Campaigns in North America from 1756 to 1760. This work in two 4to. vol. is dedicated
by permission to Lieutenant General Sir Jeffrey Amherst, and printed in London by Dodsley,
1769. It has for its motto ne quid falsi, dicere audeat, ne quid veri non audeat.

Every body around us believed that America was conquered, and the war over. After we had read
the account in the newspaper, the Lieutenant came down among us, and talked with us on the
event; and asked us if we did not think that America would now submit and make peace on such
terms as Great Britain should propose? We all told him with one voice, no! no! and that the
possession of the whole sea-coast could not produce that effect. We explained to him the situation
of Washington; and described the half built city; and soon convinced him that the capture of
Washington, was by no means an event of half the importance of the capture of Albany, or New-York,
or Baltimore. We all agreed that it would make a great sound in England, and throughout Europe,
but that it was, in fact, of little consequence to the UNITED STATES. Why should a republican
weep at the burning of a palace?

About a week after we entered Plymouth harbor, two hundred of us were drafted to be sent to
Dartmoor Prison, instead of being sent, as we expected, to America.

We were conveyed in boats, and saw, as we passed, a number of men of war on the stocks; and,
among others, the Lord Vincent, pierced for 120 guns. One of our prisoners told the lieutenant
that he was in that battle with Lord St. Vincent, and of course helped him gain the victory,
and here he was now sailing by a most noble ship, (built in honour of that famous admiral)
on his way to a doleful prison! This man had been pressed on board a British man of war, and
was given up as such; but instead of being sent home as he ought, he was detained a prisoner
of war, and yet this unfortunate man exposed his life in fighting for the British off Cape
St. Vincents, as much as the noble Lord himself. Such is the difference of rewards in this
chequered world!

My mind was too much oppressed with the melancholy prospect of Dartmoor prison, to notice particularly
the gallant show of ships; and the beautiful scenery which the dock and bay of Plymouth afforded.
When we landed a short distance from the dock, we were received by a file of soldiers, or rather
two files, between which we marched on to prison. This was the first time we touched the soil
of England with our feet, after laying under its shores nearly a year. It excited singular
and pleasant sensations to be once more permitted to walk on the earth, although surrounded
by soldiers and going to prison. The old women collected about us with their cakes and ale,
and as we all had a little money we soon emptied their jugs and baskets; and their cheering
beverage soon changed our sad countenances; and as we marched on we cheered each other. Our
march drew to the doors and windows the enchanting sight of fair ladies; compared with our
dirty selves, they looked like angels peeping out of Heaven; and yet they were neither handsomer,
or neater than our sweethearts and sisters in our own dear country.

After we left the street, we found the road extremely dusty, which rendered it very unpleasant
in walking close to each other. Before we got half way to the prison, there was a very heavy
shower of rain, so that by the time we arrived there we looked as if we had been wallowing
in the mud. Our unfeeling conductors marched us nine miles before they allowed us to rest;
never once considering how unfit we were, from our long confinement, for travelling. Where
we were allowed to stop, a butt of beer was placed in a cart for sale. Had British prisoners
been marching through New-England, a butt of beer, or good cider would have been placed for
them free of all expense; but Old England is not New-England by a great deal, whatever Governor
STRONG may think of his adorable country of kings, bishops and missionary societies.[P] Here
a fresh escort of soldiers relieved those who brought us from Plymouth. The commanding officer
of this detachment undertook to drive us from the beer-cart before all of us had a taste of
it; he rode in among us, and flourished his sword, with a view to frighten us; but we refused
to stir till we were ready, and some of our company called him a damned lobster backed ----,
for wishing to drive us away before every one had his drink. The man was perplexed, and knew
not what to do. At last the booby did what he ought to have done at first--forced the beer-seller
to drive off his cart. But it is the fate of British officers of higher rank than this one,
to think and act at last of that which they ought to have thought, and acted upon at first.
They are no match for the yankees, in contrivance, or in execution. This beer barrel is an
epitome of all their conduct in their war with America. What old woman put the idea into this
officer's head I know not; but it is a fact, as soon as the beer barrel was driven off, we
were all ready to march off too! And few companies of vagabonds in England ever marched off
to prison in better spirits; we cheered one another, and laughed at our profound leader, until
we came in sight of the black, bleak, and barren moor, without a solitary bush or blade of
grass. Some of our prisoners swore that we had marched the whole length of England, and got
into Scotland. We all agreed that it was not credible that such a hideous, barren spot could
be any where found in England.

Our old men-of-wars-men suffered the most. Many of these had not set their feet on the earth
for seven years, and they had lost in a measure, the natural operation of their feet and legs.
These naval veterans loitered behind, attended by a guard. In ascending a hill we were some
distance from the main body, and by turning a corner the rear was concealed from the van. Two
young men took advantage of this, and jumped over a wall, and lay snug under it; but being
observed, the guard fired, which alarmed those in front, when some soldiers pursued them, and
seeing the impossibility of escaping, the young men jumped over the wall again, and mixed in
with their companions without their being able to identify their persons. Our driver was extremely
perplexed and alarmed at our daring attempts.

On crawling up the long and ragged hill, we became wearied, and refused to walk so fast as
did the guard. No prudent officer would have driven men on as we were driven. We should have
rested every two or three miles.--The sun was sinking below the horizon when we gained the
top of the hill which commanded a view of Dartmoor prison. We passed through a small collection
of houses called Princetown, where were two inns. The weather was disagreeable after the shower,
and we saw the dark-hued prisons, whose sombre and doleful aspect chilled our blood. Yonder,
cried one of our companions, is the residence of four thousand five hundred men, and in a few
minutes we shall add to the number of its wretches. Others said, in that place will be sacrificed
the aspiring feelings of youth, and the anxious expectations of relatives. There, said I, shall
we bury all the designs of early emulation. I never felt disheartened before. I shed tears
when I thought of home, and of my wretched situation, and I cursed the barbarity of a people
among whom we were driven more like hogs than fellow men and Christians. I had weathered adverse
gales with fortitude; and never flinched amidst severities. "A taught bowstring," was always
my motto; but here I gave way for a moment, to despair, and wished the string to snap asunder
and end my misery; for I had not even the consolation of a criminal going to execution to brace
up the cord of life and inspire hope beyond the grave. The idea of lingering out a wretched
existence in a doleful prison, dying by piece-meals, my flesh wasting by hunger, my frame exhausting
by thirst, and my spirits broken down by a tyrant, and by jostling with misfortunes, I could
not avoid. If death, instead of knocking at my prison door, would enter it at once, I would
thank the goal deliverer. I am now comforted with the conviction, that nothing but an early
religious education could have preserved me at this, and some other times of my misery, from
destroying myself.

We soon arrived at the gates of this very extensive prison, and were admitted into the first
yard, for it had several. We there answered to the call of our names; and at length passed
through the iron gates to prison No. 7. We requested the turnkey to take in our baggage, as
it contained our bedding; but it was neglected, and rained on during the night; for on this
bleak and drizzly mountain there are not more than ninety fair days in the year. It took us
several days to dry our duds, for they merited not the name of baggage.

The moment we entered the dark prison, we found ourselves jammed in with a multitude; one calling
us to come this way, another that; some halloing, swearing and cursing, so that I did not know,
for a moment, but what I had died through fatigue and hard usage, and was actually in the regions
of the damned. Oh, what a horrid night I here passed!

The floors of this reproach to Old England were of stone, damp and mouldy, and smelling like
a transport. Here we had to lay down and sleep after a most weary march of 15 miles. What apology
can be made for not having things prepared for our comfort? Those who have been enslaved in
Algiers found things very different. The food and the lodging were in every respect superior
among the Mahometans, than among these boasting Christians, and their general treatment infinitely
more humane; some of our companions had been prisoners among the Barbary powers, and they describe
them as vastly more considerate than the English.

After passing a dreadful night, we next day had opportunity of examining our prison. It had
iron stanchions, like those in stables for horses, on which hammocks were hung. The windows
had iron gratings, and the bars of the doors seemed calculated to resist the force of men,
and of time. These things had a singular effect on such of us, as had, from our childhood,
associated the idea of liberty with the name of Old England; but a man must travel beyond the
smoke of his own chimney to acquire correct ideas of the characters of men, and of nations.--We
however saw the worst of it at first; for every day our residence appeared less disagreeable.

We arrived here the 11th of October; and our lot was better than that of thirty of our companions,
who came on a little after us from Plymouth. These 30 men were sent from the West-Indies, and
had no descriptive lists, and it was necessary that these men should be measured and described
as to stature, complexion, &c.--Capt. Shortland therefore ordered them to be shut up in the
prison No. 6. This was a more cold, dreary and comfortless place than No. 7. Their bed was
nothing but the cold damp stones; and being in total darkness they dare not walk about. These
30 men had been imprisoned at Barbadoes; and they had supposed that when they arrived at this
famous birth place of liberty, they should not be excluded from all her blessings. They had
suffered much at Barbadoes, and they expected a different treatment in England; but alas! Captain
Shortland at once dissipated the illusion and shewed himself what Britons really are. The next
morning they were taken up to Captain Shortland's office to be described, and marked, and numbered.
One of the thirty, an old and respectable Captain of an American ship, complained of his usage,
and told Shortland that he had been several times a prisoner of war, but never experienced
such barbarous treatment before. The man only replied that their not having their beds was
the fault of the Turnkey; as if that could ever be admitted as an excuse among military men.
[--> For a minute description of Dartmoor Prison see the engraving.]

Dartmoor is a dreary spot of itself; it is rendered more so by the westerly winds blowing from
the Atlantic ocean, which have the same quality and effects as the easterly wind, blowing from
the same ocean, are known to have in New-England. This high land receives the sea mist and
fogs; and they settle on our skins with a deadly dampness. Here reigns, more than two thirds
of the year, "the Scotch mist," which is famous to a proverb. This moor affords nothing for
subsistence or pleasure. Rabbits cannot live on it. Birds fly from it; and it is inhabited,
according to the belief of the most vulgar, by ghosts and dæmons; to which will now doubtless
be added, the troubled ghosts of the murdered American prisoners; and hereafter will be distinctly
seen the tormented spirit of the bloody Capt. Shortland, clanking his chains, weeping, wailing
and gnashing his teeth! It is a fact that the market people have not sufficient courage to
pass this moor in the night. They are always sure to leave Princetown by day light, not having
the resolution of passing this dreary, barren, and heaven-abandoned spot in the dark. Before
the bloody massacre of our countrymen, this unhallowed spot was believed, by common superstition,
to belong to the Devil.

Certain it is, that the common people in this neighbourhood were impressed with the notion
that Dartmoor was a place less desirable to mortals, and more under the influence of evil spirits,
than any other spot in England. I shall only say, that I found it, take it all in all, a less
disagreeable prison than the ships; the life of a prudent, industrious, well behaved man might
here be rendered pretty easy, for a prison life, as was the case with some of our own countrymen,
and some Frenchmen; but the young, the idle, the giddy, fun making youth generally reaped such
fruit as he sowed. Gambling was the wide inlet to vice and disorder; and in this Frenchmen
took the lead. These men would play away every thing they possessed beyond the clothes to keep
them decent. They have been known to game away a month's provision; and when they had lost
it, would shirk and steal for a month after for their subsistence. A man with some money in
his pocket might live pretty well through the day in Dartmoor Prison; there being shops and
stalls where every little article could be obtained; but added to this we had a good and constant
market; and the bread and meat supplied by government were not bad; and as good I presume as
that given to British prisoners by our own government; had our lodging and prison-house been
equal to our food, I never should have complained. The establishment was blessed with a good
man for a physician, named M'Grath, an Irishman, a tall, lean gentleman, with one eye, but
of a warm and good heart. We never shall cease to admire his disposition, nor forget his humanity.

The Frenchmen and our prisoners did not agree very well. They quarrelled and sometimes fought,
and they carried their differences to that length, that it was deemed proper to erect a wall
to separate them, like so many game cocks, in different yards. When this Depot was garrisoned
by Highlanders, these Scotchmen took part with the Americans against the French. Here the old
presbyterian principle of affinity operated against the papal man of sin. It cannot be denied
that there is a deep rooted hatred between the Briton and the Frenchman.

While at Dartmoor Prison, there came certain French officers wearing the white cockade; their
object seemed to be to converse with the prisoners, and to persuade them to declare for Louis
18th; but they could not prevail; the Frenchmen shouted vive l'Empereur! Their attachment to
Bonaparte was remarkably strong. He must have been a man of wonderful powers to attach all
ranks so strongly to him. Before the officers left the place, these Frenchmen hoisted up a
little dog with the white cockade tied under his tail. Soon after this the French officers,
who appeared to be men of some consideration, left the prison.

I have myself had nothing particular to complain of; but the prisoners here speak of Captain
Shortland as the most detestable of men; and they bestow on him the vilest and most abusive
epithets. The prisoners began to dig a hole under prison No. 6, and had made considerable progress
towards the outer wall, when a man, who came from Newburyport betrayed them to Capt. Shortland.
This man had, it was said, changed his name in America, on account of forgery.--Be that as
it may, he was sick at Chatham where we paid him every attention, and subscribed money for
procuring him the means of comfort. Shortland gave him two guineas, and sent him to Ireland;
or the prisoners would have hanged him for a traitor to his countrymen. The hypocritical scoundrel's
excuse was conscience and humanity; for he told Shortland that we intended to murder him, and
every one else in the neighbourhood. Shortland said he knew better; that "he was fearful of
our escaping, but never had any apprehensions of personal injury from an American; that they
delighted in plaguing him and contriving the means of escape; but he never saw a cruel or murderous
disposition in any of them."

The instant Capt. Shortland discovered the attempt to escape by digging a subterraneous passage,
he drove all the prisoners into the yard of No. 1, making them take their baggage with them;
and in a few days after, when he thought they might have begun another hole, but had not time
to complete it, he moved them into another yard and prison, and so he kept moving them from
one prison to the other, and took great credit to himself for his contrivance; and in this
way he harrassed our poor fellows until the day before our arrival at the prison. He had said
that he was resolved not to suffer them to remain in the same building and yard more than ten
days at a time; and this was a hardship they resolved not voluntarily to endure; for the removal
of hammocks and furniture and every little article, was an intolerable grievance; and the more
the prisoners appeared pestered, the greater was the enjoyment of Captain Shortland. It was
observed that whenever, in these removals, there were much jamming and squeezing and contentions
for places, it gave this man pleasure; but that the ease and comfort of the prisoners gave
him pain. The united opinion of the prisoners was, that he was a very bad hearted man. He would
often stand on the military walk, or in the market square, whenever there was any difference,
or tumult, and enjoy the scene with malicious satisfaction. He appeared to delight in exposing
prisoners in rainy weather, without sufficient reason. This has sent many of our poor fellows
to the grave, and would have sent more had it not been for the benevolence and skill of Dr.
M'Grath. We thought Miller and Osmore skilled in tormenting; but Shortland exceeded them both
by a devilish deal. The prisoners related to me several instances of cool and deliberate acts
of torment, disgraceful to a government of Christians; for the character and general conduct
of this commander could not be concealed from them. He wore the British colours on his house,
and acted under this emblem of sovereignty.

It was customary to count over the prisoners twice a week; and after the sweepers had brushed
out the prisons, the guard would send to inform the commander that they were all ready for
his inspection. On these occasions, Shortland very seldom omitted staying away as long as he
possibly could, merely to vex the prisoners; and they at length expressed their sense of it;
for he would keep them standing until they were weary. At last they determined not to submit
to it; and after waiting a sufficient time, they made a simultaneous rush forward, and so forced
their passage back into their prison-house. To punish this act, Shortland stopped the country
people from coming into market for two days. At this juncture we arrived; and as the increase
of numbers, increased our obstinacy, the Captain began to relax; and after that, he came to
inspect the prisoners, as soon as they were paraded for that purpose. It was easy to perceive
that the prisoners had, in a great measure, conquered the hard hearted, and vindictive Capt.
Shortland.

The roof of the prison to which we were consigned, was very leaky; and it rained on this dreary
mountain almost continually; place our beds wherever we could, they were generally wet. We
represented this to Capt. Shortland; and to our complaint was added that of the worthy and
humane Dr. M'Grath; but it produced no effect; so that to the ordinary miseries of a prison,
we, for a long time endured the additional one of wet lodgings, which sent many of our countrymen
to their graves.

We owe much to the humanity of Dr. M'Grath, a very worthy man, and a native of Ireland. Was
M'Grath commander of this Depot, there would be no difficulty with the prisoners. They would
obey him through affection and respect; because he considers us rational beings, with minds
cultivated like his own, and susceptible of gratitude, and habituated to do, and receive acts
of kindness; whereas the great Capt. Shortland considers us all as a base set of men, degraded
below the rank of Englishmen, towards whom nothing but rigor should be extended. He acted on
this false idea; and has like his superiors reaped the bitter fruit of his own ill judged conduct.
He might, by kind and respectful usage, have led the Americans to any thing just and honorable;
but it was not in his power, nor all the Captains in his nation, to force them to acknowledge
and quietly submit to his tyranny.

Dr. M'Grath was a very worthy man, and every prisoner loved him; but M'Farlane, his assistant,
a Scotchman, was the reverse; in dressing, or bleeding, or in any operation, he would handle
a prisoner with a brutal roughness, that conveyed the idea that he was giving way to the feelings
of revenge, or national hatred.[Q] Cannot a Scotchman testify his unnatural loyalty to the
present reigning family of England without treating an American with cruelty and contempt.

Dr. Dobson, the superintendant physician of the Hospital-ship at Chatham, was a very worthy
and very skilful gentleman. We, Americans, ought never to forget his goodness towards us. Some
of us esteem him full as high as Dr. M'Grath, and some more highly. They are both however,
worthy men, and deserve well of this country. There is nothing men vary more in than in their
opinion of and attachment to physicians. Dobson and M'Grath deserve medals of gold, and hearts
of gratitude, for their kind attention to us all.

CHAPTER IV.

The establishment of prison-ships at Chatham is broken up, and the last of the prisoners were
marched from Plymouth to this place, the 30th of November. They were marched from that place
to this, in one day, half leg deep in mud. Some lost their shoes; others, to preserve them,
took them off, and carried them in their hands. When they arrived here, they were indeed objects
of pity; nevertheless they were immediately shut up in a cold, damp prison, without any bedding,
or any of the ordinary conveniences, until they could be examined and described in the commander's
books; after which they were permitted to mix with the rest of their countrymen. We found many
of them, the day after their arrival, unable to walk, by reason of their too long protracted
march, in a very bad road. A prudent drover would not have risked his cattle by driving them
through such a road in a few hours. Such a thing never was done in America, with British prisoners.

I find all the prisoners here deeply exasperated against Captain Shortland, and too much prejudiced
to hear any thing in his favor. I presume they have reason for it. As I have but just arrived,
I have had but little opportunity of seeing and judging his conduct. Instead of his being a
bad hearted man, I am disposed to believe that the fault is in his understanding and education.
I suspect that he is a man of narrow views; that he has not sufficient information, or capacity,
to form a right judgment of the peculiar cast and character of the people under his charge.
He has never, perhaps, considered, that these descendants of Englishmen, the free inhabitants
of the new world, have been born and brought up in, if we may speak so, Indian freedom; on
which freedom has been superinduced an education purely democratic, in schools where degrading
punishments are unknown; where if a schoolmaster exercised the severity common in English and
German schools, they would tie the master's hands with his own bell-rope. He has never considered
that our potent militia choose their own officers; and that the people choose all their officers
and leaders from among themselves; and that there are very few men indeed, none, perhaps, in
New-England, who would refuse to shake hands with a decent yeoman. It is probable that Captain
Shortland has never once reflected that there are fewer grades of men between the lowest white
man under his charge and the highest in America, than there are between him and the highest
ranks in England. He has never considered the similarity between the ancient Roman republican,
and the republican of the United States of America; nor why both republics deemed it abhorrent
to inflict stripes on their citizens. Shortland had not sufficient sagacity to discover that
playfulness, fun and frolic, formed a strong trait in the character of the American sailor
and militia man, for they had hardly become, what is called in Europe, soldiers; drilling and
discipline had not obliterated the free and easy carriage of a bold and fearless Yankee.

Sir Guy Carlton, afterwards Lord Dorchester, was Governor of Canada, during the revolutionary
war, and proved himself a wise man. He penetrated the American character, and treated the American
prisoners captured in Canada, accordingly; and by doing so, he came near breaking up our army;
for our prisoners were softened and subdued by his kindness and humanity; he sent them home
well clothed, and well fed, and most of them declared they never would fight against Sir Guy
Carlton. He knew the American character thoroughly; and was convinced that harshness and severity
would have no other effect than to excite revenge and hatred. On the other hand, our prisoners
could have no very great respect for a captain, an officer, which they themselves created by
their votes, at pleasure; add to this, that several of the prisoners had the title of captain
in their own country. Had the commander of Dartmoor Prison been an old woman, the Americans
would have respected her sex and years, and obeyed her commands; but they despised and hated
Shortland, for his deficiency of head, heart, and education; from all which originated those
sad events which have disgraced one nation, and exasperated the other forever. Shortland may
be excused, when it is considered that England lost her colonies by not studying the American
character; and the same inattention to the natural operations of the human heart, is now raising
America gradually up to be the first naval power on the terraqueous globe. And thus much for
contempt.

There was an order that all lights should be put out by eight o'clock at night, in every prison;
and it was doubtless proper; but this order was carried into execution with a rigor bordering
on barbarity. On the least glimpse of light discoverable in the prison, the guard would fire
in amongst us; and several were shot. Several Frenchmen were wounded. This story was told--that
a French captain of a privateer, the night after he first came, was undressing himself, by
his hammock, when the sentry cried, "Out lights!" The Frenchman not understanding English,
kept it burning; the sentry fired, and scattered his brains over the place; but this did not
occur while I was there; but this I aver, that several were shot, and I wondered that many
were not killed. I was shocked at the barbarity of the order.

About this time, the Derbyshire militia were relieved by a regiment of regulars, who had been
in Spain. They were chiefly Irish; and treated us better than we were treated by the militia.
They had infinitely more generosity and manliness, as well as more intelligence. They acted
plays in the cock loft of No. 5. They have good music, and tolerable scenery; and charge six
pence for admission, to defray the expense. This is a very pleasant way of making the British
soldier forget his slavery; and the American prisoner his bondage. These generous hearted Irishmen
would sometimes give us a song in honour of our naval victories. O, how we did long to be at
liberty, when we heard songs in honour of the Constitution and of the United States![R]

Some men are about to be sent off to Dartmouth, to return to the United States; this has occasioned
us to write letters to our friends and connexions; but Captain Shortland is very jealous on
this head; he will not allow us to write to any of the neighbouring country people. The English
dare not trust their own people, much more the American captives.

This is the latter part of the month of November; and the weather has been generally rainy,
dark, dismal and foggy. Sometimes we could hardly see the sentinels on the walls. Sorrow and
sadness within; gloom, fog, or drizzly rain without. If the commissioners at Ghent do not soon
make peace, or establish an exchange, we shall be lost to our country, and to hope. The newspapers
now and then enliven us with the prospect of peace. We are told that growing dissentions at
Vienna will induce Great Britain to get rid of her transatlantic enemy, in order to combat
those nearer home. Whenever we see in the newspapers an article captioned "News from Ghent,"
we devour it with our eyes; but instead of substance, generally find it empty wind. We are
wearied out. I speak for myself; and I hear the same expression from others. Winter is commencing
to add to our miseries. Poor clothing, miserable lodging, poor, and inadequate food, long dismal
nights, darkness, foul air, bad smells, the groans of the sick, and distressed; the execrations
and curses of the half distracted prisoner, the unfeeling conduct of our keepers and commander--all,
all, all conspire to fill up the cup of our sorrow; but we hope that one drop will not be added
after it is brim full; far then it will run over, and death will follow!

December. Nothing new, or strange, worth recording; every day, and every night brings the same
sad picture, the same heart sinking impressions. Until now, I could not believe that misfortune
and confinement, with a deprivation of the accustomed food, ease and liberty enjoyed in our
own dear country, could have wrought such a change in the human person. The young have not
only acquired wrinkles, but appear dried up, and contracted in body and mind. I can easily
conceive that a few generations of the human species, passed in such misery and confinement,
would produce a race of beings, very inferior to what we now are. The sailor, however, suffers
less in appearance than we landsmen; for my short cruise in a privateer, does not entitle me
to the name of a sailor. How often have I reflected on my rash adventure! To leave the house
of plenty, surrounded with every thing comfortable, merely to change the scene, and see the
watery world. To quit my paternal roof, half educated, to dress wounds, and cut off the limbs
of those who might be mutilated, was about as mad a scheme as ever giddy youth engaged in.
But repining will do no good. I must not despair, but make the best of my hard lot. If I have
lost a portion of ordinary education, I have passed the severer school of misfortune; and should
I live to return to America, I must strive to turn these hardships to the best advantage. He
who has not met adversity, has not seen the most profitable part of human life.

There were times, during my captivity, especially in the long and cheerless nights, when home,
and all its endearments, rushed on my mind; and when I reflected on my then situation, I burst
into tears, and wept aloud. It was then I was fearful that I should lose my reason, and never
recover it. Many a time have I thought myself into a fever, my tongue covered with a furr,
and my brain seemed burning up within my skull. It was company that preserved me. Had I been
alone, I should have been raving distracted. I had committed no crime; I was in the service
of my country, in a just and necessary war, declared by the people of the UNITED STATES, through
their representatives in Congress, and proclaimed to the world by our supreme executive officer,
James Madison. On this subject, I cannot help remarking the ignorance of the people of England.
In their newspapers, and in their conversation, you will constantly find this idea held up,
that the war was the work of Mr. Madison and Bonaparte. This shows their ignorance of the affairs
of our country. They are too ignorant to talk with on the constitution of our government; and
on the character and conduct of our administration. It is no wonder that they are astonished
at our victories, by sea and by land, when they are so totally ignorant of our country, of
its endless resources, of its invincible republican spirit, of its strong government, founded
on the affections of the people; and of the vigor, and all commanding intellect that pervades
and directs the whole.

On the 28th of this month, December, 1815, the news arrived here that a treaty of peace was
signed the 24th instant, at Ghent. After a momentary stupor, acclamations of joy burst forth
from every mouth. It flew like wild fire through the prison; and peace! peace! peace! echoed
throughout these dreary regions. To know that we were soon to return home, produced a sensation
of joy beyond the powers of expression! Some screamed, hollowed, danced, sung, and capered,
like so many Frenchmen. Others stood in amaze, with their hands in their pockets, as if doubtful
of its truth. In by far the greater part, however, it gave a glow of health and animation to
the wan cheek of the half sick, and, hitherto, cheerless prisoner. Some unforgiving spirits
hail the joyful event as bringing them nearer the period of revenge, which they longed to exercise
on some of their tyrannical keepers. Many who had meditated escape, and had hoarded up every
penny for that event, now brought it forth to spend in celebration of their regular deliverance.
Even hard hearted Shortland appeared to bend from the haughty severity of his jailor-like manner,
and can now speak to an American as if he were of the same species with himself. He has even
allowed us to hoist our national colors on these prisons; and appears not to be offended at
the sound of mirth and hilarity, which now echoes throughout these extensive mansions. I say
extensive, for I suppose the whole of these prisons, yards, hospitals, stores and houses, are
spread over twenty acres of ground. [See the plate.]

We calculate that the ratification of the treaty by the President of the United States, will
arrive in England by the 1st of April, at which period there will not be an American left in
this place. The very thoughts of it keep us from sleeping. Amidst this joy for peace, and for
the near prospect of our seeing, once more, our dear America, there is not a man among us but
feels disposed to try again the tug of war with the Britons, should they impress and flog our
seamen, or instigate the savages of the wilderness to scalp and tomahawk the inhabitants of
our frontiers. This war, and this harsh imprisonment, will add vigor to our arms, should the
people of America again declare, by their representatives in congress, that individual oppression,
or the nation's wrongs, render it expedient to sail, or march against a foe, whose tender mercies
are cruelty. We can tell our countrymen, when we return home, what the Britons are, as their
prisoners can tell the English what the Americans are.--"By their fruits shall ye know them."

We invite our readers to peruse the historical journal of the campaigns of 1759, by Capt. Knox,
where the immortal Wolfe cut such a glorious figure in burning the houses, and plundering the
wretched peasantry of Canada. He says, "The detachments of regulars and rangers, under Major
Scott and Captain Goreham, who went down the river on the 1st instant, are returned. They took
a great quantity of black cattle and sheep; an immense deal of plunder, such as household stuff,
books and apparel, burnt above eleven hundred houses, and destroyed several hundred acres of
corn, beside some fisheries, and made sixty prisoners;"--and this just before winter! Have
we, Americans, ever been guilty of such deeds? Yet we, Yankees, have been taught from our childhood
to eulogize Wolfe, and Amherst, and Monckton, and to speak in raptures of the glorious war
in 1759, when British soldiers joined the savages in scalping Frenchmen!

During this month, a number of prisoners have been sent to this prison from Plymouth. They
came here from Halifax; they were principally seamen, taken out of prizes, which the English
retook. They all make similar complaints of hard usage, bad and very scanty food, and no attention
to their health or comfort. There are now, at this depot, about Twenty-Three Hundred and Fifty
Americans, who were impressed, previously to the war, into the British service, by English
ships and English press-gangs. They are the stoutest and most hardy looking men in the prison.
This is easily accounted for. When the British go on board an American merchant ship to look
for English sailors, they adopt one easy rule, viz.--they select the stoutest, most hardy,
and healthy looking men, and swear that they are Englishmen. After they have selected one of
these fine fellows, it is in vain that he produces his protection, or any other evidence of
his American birth and citizenship.

We learn from these seamen, that as soon as conveyed on board the British men of war, they
are examined as to the length of time they have been at sea; and according to the knowledge
and experience they appear to have, they are stationed; and if they grumble at the duty assigned
them, they are called mutinous rascals, and threatened with the cat; the warrant officers are
charged to watch them closely, lest they should attempt to pervert the crew, and to prevent
them from sending letters from the ship to their friends. Should any letters be detected on
them, the sailors are charged, on pain of the severest punishment, to deliver them to some
of the commissioned officers.

If they complained of their hard fate to their messmates, they were liable to punishment, and
if they attempted to regain their liberty, and were detected, they were stripped, tied up,
and most cruelly and disgracefully whipped, like a negro slave. Can any thing be conceived
more humiliating to the feelings of men, born and brought up as we all are? Can we ever be
cordial friends with such a people, even in time of peace? Will ever a man of our country,
or his children after him, forgive this worse than Algerine treatment?

Several of the most intelligent of these impressed men related to me the particulars of the
treatment, they, at various times, received; and I had committed them to paper; but they are
too mean, low and disgusting to be recorded. The pitiful evasions, unworthy arts, and even
falsehoods of some captains of his Britannic majesty's line of battle ships, when a seaman
produced his protection; or offered to prove his nativity, or identify his person, as marked
in his descriptive roll, were such, as to make me bless my stars that I did not belong to their
service. There were, however, some instances of noble and generous conduct; which came up to
the idea we, once, entertained of English honor, before the solid bullion of the English naval
character was beaten into such thin, such very thin gold leaf, as to gild so many thousands
of their epauletted seamen. The officers of the Poictiers were spoken of with respect; and,
by what I could learn, the smaller the vessel, the worse treatment was experienced by our prisoners,
and impressed seamen; your little-big-men being always the greatest tyrants. Among these small
fry of the mistress of the ocean, "you damned Yankee rascal," was a common epithet. Our own
land officers had often to remark, when they came in contact with the British, especially in
the night, as at Bridgewater, and at the repulse at Fort Erie, that the British colonels and
other officers, were heard repeatedly to use expressions of this sort--"No quarter to the damned
yankees!" "Form! Form! for the damned yankees are close upon us!" Colonel Drummond's last words,
when he surmounted the rampart at Fort Erie, was in the like style of language. How many lives
have these expressions of contempt cost the British!

Many of the impressed seamen now here, have told me, that they have been lashed to the gang-way,
and most severely whipped, even to the extent of three dozen, for refusing to do, what the
captain of a British man of war called "THEIR DUTY!" Some of these men have replied, "it is
my duty to serve my own country; and fight against its enemies;" and for saying so, have been
farther abused. Have ever the French, Spaniards, Portuguese, Italians, Germans, Dutch, Danes,
Swedes, Russians, Prussians, Turks, or Algerines treated American citizens in this way? And
yet our federalists can never bear to hear us speak, in terms of resentment, against "the bulwark
of our religion." O, Caleb! Caleb! Thou hast a head and so has a beetle.[S]

We had all more or less money from the American government; and some of the impressed men brought
money with them. This attracted the avaricious spirit of our neighbors; so that our market
was filled, not only with vegetables, but animal food. There were also seen in our market,
piles of broad cloth, boxes of hats, boots, shoes, and many other articles. The greatest pick-pockets
of all were the Jews, with their watches, seals and trinkets, and bad books. A moral commander
would have swept the prison yard clean of such vermin. The women who attend our market are
as sharp as the Jews, and worse to deal with; for a sailor cannot beat them down as he can
one of these swindling Israelites. Milk is cheap, only 4d. per gallon, but they know how to
water it.

The language and phraseology of these market people are very rude. When puffing off the qualities
of their goods, when they talk very fast, we can hardly understand them. They do not speak
near so good English as our common market people do in America. The best of them use the pronoun
he in a singular manner--as can he pay me? Can he change? For can you pay me? Or you change?
I am fully of opinion with those who say that the American people taken collectively, as a
nation, speak the English language with more purity than the Britons, taken collectively. Every
man or boy of every part of the United States would be promptly understood by the men of letters
in London; but every man and boy of Old England would not be promptly understood by the lettered
men in the capital towns of America. Is it not the bible that has preserved the purity of our
language in America? These English men and women do not speak with the grammatical correctness
of our people. As to the Scotch, their barbarisms that are to be found even in print, are affrontive
to the descendants of Englishmen. Where, among the white people of the United States, can we
find such shocking barbarities as we hear from the common people of Scotland? And yet we find
that the Prince Regent is at the head of an institution for perpetuating the unwritten language
to the highlanders. We shall expect to hear of a similar undertaking, under the same patronage,
for keeping alive the language of his dear allies, the Kickapoos and Pottowattomies!! for the
language of slaves or savages, are the needed props of some of the thrones in Europe.

I am sorry to remark that the Christmas holy-days have been recently marked with no small degree
of intoxication, and its natural consequence, quarrelling among the prisoners. The news of
peace; and the expectation of being soon freed from all restraint, have operated to unsettle
the minds of the most unruly, and to encourage riot. Drinking, carousing, and noise, with little
foolish tricks, are now too common.--Some one took off a shutter, or blind, from a window of
No. 6, and as the persons were not delivered up by the standing committee, Captain Shortland
punished the whole, college fashion, by stopping the market, or as this great man was pleased
wittily to call it, an embargo. At length the men were given up to Shortland, who put them
in the black hole for ten days.

To be a cook is the most disagreeable and dangerous office at this depot. They are always suspected,
watched and hated, from an apprehension that they defraud the prisoner of his just allowance.
One was flogged the other day for skimming the fat off the soup. The grand Vizier's office
at Constantinople, is not more dangerous than a cook's, at this prison, where are collected
four or five thousand hungry American sons of liberty. The prisoners take it upon themselves
to punish these pot-skimmers in their own way.

We have in this collection of prisoners, a gang of hard-fisted fellows, who call themselves
"THE ROUGH ALLIES." They have assumed to themselves the office of accuser, judge and executioner.
In my opinion, they are as great villains as could be collected in the United States. They
appear to have little principle, and as little humanity, and many of them are given up to every
vice; and yet these ragamuffins have been allowed to hold the scale and rod of justice. These
rough allies make summary work with the accused, and seldom fail to drag him to punishment.
I am wearied out with such lawless anti-American conduct.

January 30th. The principal conversation among the most considerate is, when will the treaty
be returned, ratified; for knowing the high character of our commissioners, none doubt but
that the President and Senate will ratify, what they have approved. We are all in an uneasy,
and unsettled state of mind; more so than before the news of peace. Before that news arrived,
we had settled down in a degree of despair; but now we are preparing and planning our peaceable
departure from this loathsome place.

I would ask the reader's attention to the conduct of Capt. Shortland, the commanding officer
of this depot of prisoners, as well as to the conduct of the men under his charge, as the conduct
and events of this period have led on to a tragedy that has filled our native land with mourning
and indignation. I shall aim at truth and impartiality, and the reader may make such allowance
as our situation may naturally afford, and his cool judgment suggest.

In the month of January, 1815, Captain Shortland commenced a practice of counting over the
prisoners out of their respective prisons, in the cold, raw air of the yard, where we were
exposed above an hour, unnecessarily to the severity of the weather. After submitting to this
caprice of our keeper, for several mornings, in hopes he would be satisfied as to the accurate
number of the men in prison, we all refused to go out again in wet and raw weather. Shortland
pursued his usual method of stopping the market; but finding that it had no effect, he determined
on using force; and sent his soldiers into the yard, and ordered them to drive the prisoners
into the prison in the middle of the afternoon, whereas they heretofore remained out until
the sun had set, and then they all went quietly into their dormitories. The regiment of regulars
had been withdrawn, and a regiment of Somersetshire militia had taken their place, a set of
stupid fellows, and generally speaking ignorant officers. The regiment of regulars were clever
fellows, and Shortland was awed by their character; but he felt no awe, or respect, for these
irregulars.

The prisoners told the soldiers that this was an unusual time of day for them to leave the
yard; and that they would not tamely submit to such caprice. The soldiers could only answer
by repeating their orders. More soldiers were sent for; but they took special care to assume
a position to secure their protection. The soldiers began now to use force with their bayonets.
All this time Shortland stood on the military walk with the major of the regiment, observing
the progress of his orders. Our men stood their ground. On observing this opposition, Shortland
became enraged; and ordered the major to give the word for the soldiers to fire. The soldiers
were drawn up in a half circle, to keep them from scattering.

We were now hemmed in between No. 7, and the wall, that divided this from the yard of No. 4.
The major then gave orders to the officer in the yard, to "charge bayonet." This did not occasion
our prisoners to retreat; they rather advanced; and some of them told the soldiers, that if
they pricked a single man, they would disarm them. Shortland was watching all these movements
from behind the gate; and finding that he had not men enough to drive them in, drew his soldiers
out of the yard. After this, the prisoners went into the prison of their own accord, when the
turnkey sounded a horn.

These militia men have been somewhat intimidated by the threatenings of the "rough allies,"
before mentioned. These national guards thought they could drive us about like so many Frenchmen;
but they have found their mistake. A man escaped from the black-hole, who had been condemned
to remain in it during the war, for attempting to blow up a ship. The prisoners were determined
to protect him; and when Shortland found that the prisoners would not betray him into his hands,
he resorted to his usual embargo of the market; and sent his soldiers in after the prisoner;
but he might as well have sought a needle in a hay-mow; for such was the difficulty of finding
an individual among six thousand. They ransacked every birth, and lurking place, and passed
frequently by the man without being able to identify him, as our fellow had disguised himself
both in face, and in person. The prisoners mixed in so entirely with the soldiers, that the
latter could not act, and were actually fearful of being disarmed. When these Somersetshire
militia found that we were far from being afraid of them, they ceased to be insolent, and treated
us with something like respect. There was a considerable degree of friendship between us and
the late regiment of regulars, who were gentlemen, compared with these clumsy militia.

There are about four hundred and fifty negroes in prison No. 4; and this assemblage of blacks
affords many curious anecdotes, and much matter for speculation. These blacks have a ruler
among them whom they call king DICK. He is by far the largest, and I suspect the strongest
man in the prison. This ruler of the blacks, this king RICHARD the IVth, is a man of good understanding;
and he exercises it to a good purpose. If any one of his color cheats, defrauds, or steals
from his comrades, he is sure to be punished for it. Negroes are generally reputed to be thieves.
Their faculties are commonly found to be inadequate to the comprehension of the moral system;
and as to the Christian system, their notions of it, generally speaking, are a burlesque on
every thing serious. The punishment which these blacks are disposed to inflict on one another
for stealing, partakes of barbarity; and ought never to be allowed, where the whites have the
control of them.--By a punishment called "cobbing," they have occasioned the glutæus muscles
to mortify.

Beside his majesty King Dick, these black prisoners have among them a Priest, who preaches
every Sunday. He can read, and he gives good advice to his brethren; and his prayers are very
much in the strain of what we have been used to hear at home. In the course of his education,
he has learnt, it is said, to know the nature of crimes and punishments; for, it is said, that
while on board the Crown Prince prison-ship at Chatham, he received a dozen lashes for stealing
some clothing; but we must make allowance for stories; for preachers have always complained
of the calumnies of their enemies. If his whole history was known and correctly narrated, he
might be found a duly qualified preacher, to such a congregation as that of prison No. 4.

This black man has a good deal of art and cunning, and has drawn several whites into his church;
and his performances have an imposing cast; and are often listened to with seriousness. He
appears to have learnt his sermons and prayers from a diligent reading of good books; but as
to the Christian system, the man has no more idea of it than he has of the New Jerusalem; but
then his good sentences, delivered, frequently, with great warmth, and his string of good advice,
given in the negro dialect, make altogether, a novelty, that attracts many to hear him; and
he certainly is of service to the blacks; and it is a fact, that the officers have heard him
hold forth, without any expressions of ridicule; while the majority of these miserable black
people are too much depraved to pay any serious attention to his advice.

It is curious to observe the natural alliance between king Dick and this priest. Dick honors
and protects him, while the priest inculcates respect and obedience to this Richard the 4th.
Here we see the union of church and state in miniature. Who told this negro, that to maintain
this influence, he must rally round the huge club of the strongest and most powerful man in
this black gang of sinners? And who told king Dick that his nervous arm and massy club, were
insufficient without the aid of the preacher of terror? Neither of them had read, or heard
of Machiavel. Who taught this black orator, that the priesthood must seek shelter behind the
throne, from the hostilities of reason? And who told "the rough allies," the Janisaries of
this imperium in imperio, that they must assist and countenance both Dick and the priest? The
science of government is not so deep and complicated a thing as king-craft and priest-craft
would make us believe, since these rude people, almost deserving the name of a banditti, threw
themselves into a sort of government, that is to be discerned in the early stages of every
government. The love of power, of influence, and of distinction, is clearly discernible, even
among the prisoners at Dartmoor. When I think of these things I am disposed to despise what
is called education, which is, after all, but a wooden leg, a mere clumsy, unfeeling substitute
for a live one, barely sufficient to keep a man out of the mud.

Beside king Dick, and Simon, the priest, there was another black divine, named John. He had
been a servant of Edward, Duke of Kent, third son of the present king of England; on which
account, black John assumed no small state and dignity. He left the service of his royal highness;
and was found on board of an American ship, and was pressed from thence into a British man
of war, where he served a year or two, in the station of captain's steward; but disliking the
service, he claimed his release, as an American; and was sent with a number of other pressed
men, to the prison ships at Chatham; and he came to this prison, with a number of other Africans.
After king Dick, and Simon, the priest, black John was the next man of the most consequence
among the negroes; and considering his family connections; and that he knew how to read and
write, it is not much to be wondered at. John conceived that his influence with his royal highness
was sufficient to encourage him to write to the Duke to get him set at liberty; who actually
applied to the transport-board with that view; but they could not grant it. He received, however,
a letter from Capt. Hervy, the Duke's secretary, on the subject, who added, that as he had
been so unwise as to refuse to serve his majesty, he must suffer for his folly. We have been
particular in this anecdote; and we request our readers to bear it in mind, when we shall come
to contrast this prompt answer of the royal Duke to the letter of a negro, with the conduct
of Mr. Beasley, our agent for prisoners. The prisoners themselves noticed it; and envied the
negro, while they execrated the haughty, unfeeling agent, who seldom, or ever answered their
letters, or took any notice of their applications.

The poor negro consoled himself for his disappointment by turning Christian; and being a pretty
clever fellow, and having formerly belonged to the royal family, it was considered an act of
kindness and magnanimity, to raise him to the rank of deacon in Simon's church. Deacon John
generally acts as a privy counsellor to the king; and is sometimes a judge in criminal cases,
when his majesty allows of one, which is not very often; for he most commonly acts in as despotic
and summary a manner as the Dey of Algiers himself.

King Dick keeps a boxing-school, where the white men are sometimes admitted. No. 4 is noted,
also, for fencing, dancing and music; and, however extraordinary it may appear, they teach
these accomplishments to the white men. A person, entering the cock-loft of No. 4, would be
highly amused with the droll scenery which it exhibited; and if his sense of smelling be not
too refined, may relish, for a little while, this strange assemblage of antics. Here he may
see boxing, fencing, dancing, raffling, and other modes of gambling; and to this, we may add,
drawing with chalk and charcoal; and tricks of slight-of-hand; and all this to gratify the
eye; and for the sense of hearing, he may be regaled with the sound of clarionets, flutes,
violins, flagelets, fifes, tambarines, together with the whooping and singing of the negroes.
On Sundays this den of thieves is transformed into a temple of worship, when Simon, the priest,
mounted on a little stool, behind a table covered with green cloth, proclaims the wonders of
creation, and salvation to the souls of true believers; and hell fire and brimstone, and weeping,
and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, to the hardened and impenitent sinner, and obstinate rebel
of proffered mercy. As he approaches the end of his discourse, he grows warmer and warmer,
and, foaming at the mouth, denounces all the terrors of the law against every heaven-daring,
God-provoking sinner. I have frequently noticed the effect of this black man's oratory upon
some of his audience. I have known him to solemnize his whole audience, a few numskulled negroes
alone excepted. While he has been thus thundering and lightning, sullen moans and hollow groans
issue from different parts of the room; a proof that his zealous harrangue solemnizes some
of his hearers; while a part of them are making grimaces, or betraying marks of impatience;
but no one dare be riotous; as near the preacher sat his majesty king Dick, with his terrible
club, and huge bear-skin cap. The members of the church sat in a half circle nearest the priest;
while those who had never passed over the threshold of grace, stood up behind them.

A little dispute, if not quite a schism, has existed between Simon, the priest, and deacon
John. The latter, while in the family of a royal Duke, had learned that it was proper to read
prayers, already made, and printed to their hands; but Simon said, he should make but few converts
if he read his prayers. He said that prayers ought to spring at once, warm from the heart;
and that reading prayers was too cold a piece of work for him or his church. But John said,
in reply, that reading prayers was practised by his royal highness the duke of Kent, and all
the noble families in England, as well as on board all his Britannic majesty's ships of war.
But Simon, who had never waited on royalty, nor ever witnessed the religious exercises of an
English man of war, would not believe this practice of the British nation ought to have weight
with the reformed Christians of the United States. There was a diversity of opinion in the
black church; and the dispute once grew so warm, that Simon told John, that it was his opinion,
that "he who could not pray to his God, without a book, would be damned."

His majesty king Dick finding that this dispute might endanger the peace of the church, and,
possibly, diminish his own influence, advised that the dispute should be left to the decision
of a neighboring methodist preacher, who sometimes visited the prison, in a labor of love.
The preacher came, and heard patiently, the arguments of both sides, and finally decided, as
king Dick doubtless foresaw, in favor of Simon. He said that the reason why his royal highness
the duke of Kent, and all the royal family, and all the nobility and parliament men read their
prayers, was, because they had not time to make them, each one for himself. Now Deacon John
was a better reasoner than Simon; but Simon had the most cant; and he, of course, prevailed.
It is probable that John had concluded, that if he could carry a vote for reading prayers,
he, himself, would be the reader; and then he should become as conspicuous as Simon. Emulation,
and the desire of distinction, the great, and indeed main-spring of this world, was as apparent
among these degraded sons of Africa, as among any white gentlemen and ladies in the land. John's
ambition, and his envy, operated just like the ambition and envy of white people. At length,
when the deacon found that, since the decision of the methodist, his supporters deserted him,
he made his mind up to follow the current, and to justify his conduct by inculcating a spirit
of conciliation and union. This shrewd fellow knew, that if he did not follow the current,
he should lose the privilege he enjoyed of sitting at the end of the table, opposite to Simon;
and of leaning his head on the great bible, while Simon was preaching; privileges too great
to be slighted in such a church; and directly after a religious dispute.

Since I returned home, and while transcribing this journal for the press, I have thought that
the conduct of deacon John was from the self same principle with that which actuated the federalists,
since the dissolution and disgrace of the Hartford Convention. This faction, it seems, found
themselves after the peace, and after the battle of New Orleans, going fast down the stream
of popular opinion; and then it was that they preached up conciliation, liberality, and union;
then it was they caught hold of the skirts of the land and naval heroes; nay, they went so
far as to hail Jefferson and Madison as brother Unitarians! In short, the situation of black
John, and the federalists of Massachusetts, was exactly the same; and their conduct in every
point, similar; and the leading federalists of Boston have been left, like the deacon of the
negro congregation, in No. 4, Dartmoor prison, to lean upon the great bible; which sacred volume
these persons are sending to all parts of the world, not being sufficiently awake to consider
it will democratize other parts of the world, beside America.

When the British General Prescott commanded at Rhode Island, in the revolutionary war, (the
same whom our Major Barton stole, and carried off in the night, from his head quarters, in
a whale boat) he was very much disliked for his silly haughtiness, and unbecoming pride. One
day a Baptist preacher waited upon him to complain of an oppression exercised on some of his
followers, by the military, and taking his bible out of his pocket, he began to read a passage
which he deemed applicable to the case; on sight of which the General flew into a rage, and
drove the preacher, with his bible, out of the room, saying, "if it had not been for that d--d
book, we should not have had this rebellion." Bating the profane epithet, we give the angry
Scotchman credit for his sagacity. The observation would not have disgraced his countryman,
David Hume.

Simon, the priest, enjoyed one great and envied privilege, which John never pretended to, namely,
an acquaintance and intercourse with the angel Gabriel. He had many revelations from this celestial
messenger, and related them to his church. They related principally to the fate of his fellow
prisoners; one, in particular, he told to his church with awe and solemnity.

I saw, said he, a great light, shining only through the grates of one window, before the hour
of day break. I looked up, and saw something like a man with wings. I was at first frightened,
and cried out, "who comes dare?" for I could not see his face. Directly the bars of the window
beat each way, and his head and shoulders came in, when I knew him to be the angel Gabriel.
"Simon," said he, "I am come to tell you that this prison will be sunk before forty days, because
its inhabitants are so wicked, and will not repent." Den I tank him; and he drew back his head
again; and the iron bars were restored to their place again, when he spread out his wings,
which were covered with ten thousand stars, which made a great light when he flew away. Such
was the method used, by this artful black man, to rouse his countrymen out of the sink of vice;
and it had the desired effect. This prediction solemnized several of the negroes, and had more
or less effect upon all of them. They became more liberal in their contributions, which enabled
Simon to purchase a new green coat. It seemed as if the most profligate of these fellows, had
a secret dread of Simon's prediction, and were willing to gain his favor by contributions,
instead of repentance. Has not this disposition founded churches, monasteries and nunneries?
Many of Simon's church are strongly impressed with the apprehension of the prison sinking within
forty days.

These blacks have been desirous of having their prison the centre of amusement. They act plays
twice a week, and as far as close imitation of what they have seen and heard, and broad grimace,
they are admirable; but they are, half the time, ignorant of the meaning of the words they
utter.--The gate-ways and century-boxes are plaistered over with play-bills, announcing--OTHELLO,
for the first time, by Mr. Robinson--DESDEMONA, by Mr. Jones. I seldom failed to attend these
exhibitions, and must confess that I never before or since, or perhaps ever shall laugh so
heartily as at these troglodyte dramas. Their acting was assuredly the most diverting beyond
all comparison, or example, I ever saw. They would cut so many negroish capers in tragedy,
grin and distort their countenances in such a variety of inhuman expressions, while they kept
their bodies either stiff as so many stakes, or in a monkeyish wriggle, and ever and anon such
a baboon stare at Desdemona, whose face, neck and hands, were covered with chalk and red paint,
to make him look like a beautiful white lady--was altogether, considering that they themselves
were very serious, the most ludicrous exhibition of two legged ridiculousness I ever witnessed.
In the midst of my loud applauses, I could not, when my sore sides would allow me to articulate,
help exclaiming--O! Shakespeare! Shakespeare!--O! Garrick! Garrick!--what would not I give
(an indigent prisoner) could I raise you from the dead, that you might see the black consequences
of your own transcendent geniuses!--When Garrick rubbed himself over with burnt cork to make
himself look like a Moor, or with lamp-black to resemble Mungo, it did pretty well; but for
a negro man to cover his forehead, neck and hands with chalk, and his cheeks with vermillion,
to make him look like an English, or American beauty, was too much. Had I been going up the
ladder to be hanged, I should have laughed at this sight; for to all this outrageous grimace,
was added a fantastic habiliment, and an odour from Desdemona and company, that associated
the ideas of the skunk or the polecat. I presume that their august majesties, the emperor and
empress of Hayti, have some means of destroying this association of ideas, so revolting to
Americans.

After all, this may be in us a disgust grounded more in prejudice than nature. What we call
delicacy is a refinement of civilization; and of course a departure from nature. See how the
brutes enjoy rolling and wallowing in what we call dirt; next to them, we may observe the love
of what we call filth in savages, and of those persons in our cities who stand nearest to them.
Extreme cleanliness is the offspring of riches, leisure, luxury, and extreme refinement; nevertheless
it is true what Swift says, that "persons with nice minds have nasty ideas." I suffered greatly,
and so did many of our countrymen, on our first acquaintance with filth and vermin in this
our British captivity. Many a time have I got up from my dinner as hungry as I sat down, when
disgust has been greater than appetite. I have, however, gradually surmounted antipathies I
once thought insurmountable. I am not the only one who has often retired from our disgusting
repast, to my bunk or sleeping birth, in silent agony, there to breathe out to my Maker, woes
too great for utterance. O, Britain! Britain! will there not be a day of retribution for these
thy cruelties!

There are some in this dismal prison, who have been used all their lives, not to conveniences
only, but to delicacies; who are obliged to submit to the disagreeables of this uncivilized
mode of incarcerating brave men, for one of the first of Grecian, Roman, English and American
virtues, the love of country, or patriotism. These unfortunate men, with minds far elevated
beyond the officers who are placed here to guard, and to torment them, submit to their confinement
with a better grace than one could have expected. When these men have eaten their stinted ration,
vilely cooked, and hastily served up, they return to their hammocks, or sleeping births, and
there try "to steep their senses in forgetfulness," until the recurrence of the next disgusting
meal. On the other hand, some have said that they never before eat with such a keen appetite;
and their only complaint has been, that there was not one quarter enough for them to devour.
I was often satisfied with a quantity of food that was not half enough for my companions. Some
have since said, that they devoured their daily allowance at Dartmoor, with more relish than
they ever have since, when set down at tables, covered as our American tables are, with venison,
poultry, the finest fish, and the best fruits of our country, with choice old cider, and good
foreign wines.

A thing very disagreeable to me, arose from causes not occasioned by the enemy. I have been
squeezed to soreness, by a crowd of rough, overbearing men, who oft times appeared to be indifferent
whether they trampled you under feet or not. The "rough allies," so called, had no feeling
for men smaller and weaker than themselves. From this gang, you could seldom get a civil answer.
Their yells, and whooping, more like savages than white men, were very troublesome. The conduct
of these, proved that it was natural for the strong to tyrannize over the weak. I have often
thought that our assemblage of prisoners, resembled very much the Grecian and Roman democracies,
which were far, very far, beneath the just, rational, and wisely guarded democracy of our dear
America, for whose existence and honor we are all still heartily disposed to risk our lives,
and spill our blood.

As not allowing us prisoners a due and comfortable portion of clean food, is the heavy charge
I have to make against the British nation, I shall here, once for all, attempt to describe
the agonies I myself sometimes felt, and observed others to endure, from cravings of hunger;
which are keen sensations in young men, not yet arrived to their full growth. The hungry prisoner
is seen to traverse the alleys, backwards and forwards, with a gnawing stomach, and a haggard
look; while he sees the fine white loaves on the tables of the bread-seller, when all that
he possesses cannot buy a single loaf. I have known many men tremble, and become sick at their
stomachs, at the sight of bread they could not obtain. Sometimes a prisoner has put away a
portion of his bread, and sworn to himself that he would not eat it until such an hour after
breakfast; he has, however, gone to it, and picked a few crumbs from it, and replaced it; and
sometimes he could no longer resist the grinding torments of hunger, but devoured it with more
than canine appetite; for it must be understood that the interval between the evening and morning
meal was the most distressing. An healthy, growing young man, feels very uncomfortable if he
fasts five hours; but to be without food, as we often were, for fourteen hours, was a cruel
neglect, or a barbarous custom. Our resource from hunger was sleep; not but that the sensations
of hunger, and the thoughts of the deprivation, often prevented me from getting asleep; and
at other times, when wrapt in sleep, I have dreamed of setting down to a table of the most
delicious food, and most savory meats, and in the greatest profusion; and amidst my imagined
enjoyment, have waked in disappointment, agony and tears. This was the keenest misery I ever
endured; and at such times, have I cursed the nation that allowed of it, as being more barbarous
than Algerines or wild Indians. The comparative size of the pieces of beef and bread is watched
with a keen and jealous eye; so are even the bits of turnip in our soup, lest one should have
more than the other. I have noticed more acts of meanness and dishonesty in men of respectable
character, in the division and acquisition of the articles of our daily food, than in any other
transaction whatever. Such as they would despise, were hunger out of the question. The best
apology I can make for the practice of gaming is, the hope of alleviating this most abominable
system of starvation. Had we been duly and properly fed, we never should have run so deeply
into the hell of gambling. We did not want money to buy clothing, or wine, or rum, but to buy
beef, and bread, and milk. I repeat it, all the irregularities, and, finally, the horrors and
death, that occurred in a remarkable manner, in this den of despair, arose from the British
system of scanty food for young men, whose vigorous systems, and habits of being full fed,
demanded a third more solid flesh meat, than would satisfy a potatoe-eating Irishman, an oat-feeding
Scotchman, or an half starved English manufacturer. After we have finished our own dinners
in New England, we give to our cats and dogs, and other domestic animals, more solid nourishment,
the remnant of our meals, than what we had often allowed us in the ships and prisons of "the
world's last hope," Pickering's[T] "fast anchor'd isle."

Among the abuses of Dartmoor prison, was that of allowing Jews to come among us to buy clothes,
and allowing some other people, worse than Jews, to cheat us in the articles we purchased.
How far our keepers went "snacks" with these harpies, we never could know. We only suspected
that they did not enjoy all their swindling privileges gratuitously. Before the immoral practice
of gambling was introduced and countenanced, it was no unusual thing to see men in almost every
birth, reading, or writing, or studying navigation. I have noticed the progress of vice in
some, with pain and surprise. I have seen men, once respectable, give examples of vice that
I cannot describe, or even name; and I am fearful that some of our young boys, may carry home
to their hitherto pure and chaste country, vices they never had any idea of when they left
it. I believe Frenchmen, Italians, and Portuguese, are much worse examples for our youth, than
English, Irish, or Scotchmen. I must say of the British that they are generally men of better
habits and morals than some of the continental nations. But enough, and more than enough, on
the depravity of the oldest of the European nations.

February 28th, 1815.--Time hangs heavily on the weary and restless prisoner. His hopes of liberation,
and his anxiety, increase daily and hourly. The Favorite! The Favorite, is in every one's mouth;
and every one fixes the day of her arrival. We have just heard that she was spoken near the
coast of America, by the Sultan, a British 74, on the 2d of February. If so, then she must
arrive in a few days, with the news of the ratification or rejection of the treaty of peace,
by Mr. Madison; and on this great event our happiness depends. Some of the English merchants
are so confident that our President will ratify the treaty, that they are sending vast quantities
of English manufactures out to Halifax, to be ready to thrust into the ports of America, as
soon as we shall be able, legally, to admit them. It is easy to perceive that the English are
much more anxious to send us their productions, than we are to receive them.

Our anxiety increases every day. We inquire of every one the news. We wait with impatience
for the newspapers, and when we receive them are disappointed; not finding in them what we
wish. They, to besure, speak of the sitting of the Vienna Congress; and we have been expecting,
every day, that this political old hen had hatched out her various sort of eggs. We expected
that her motley brood would afford us some fun. Here we expected to see a young hawk, and there
a goslin, and next a strutting turkey, and then a dodo, a loon, an ostrich, a wren, a magpie,
a cuckoo, and a wag-tail. But the old continental hen has now set so long, that we conclude
that her eggs are addled, and incubation frustrated. During all this time, the Gallick cock
is on his roost at Elba, with his head under his wing.

We but now and then get a sight of Cobbett's Political Register; and when we do, we devour
it, and destroy it, before it comes to the knowledge of our Ceroebrus. This writer has a manner
sui generis, purely his own; but it is somewhat surprising, how he becomes so well informed
of the actual state of things, and of the feelings and opinions of both parties in our country.
His acuteness, his wit, his logic, and his surliness, form, altogether, a curious portraiture
of an English politician. We, now and then, get sight of American papers; but they are almost
all of them federal papers, and contain matter more hostile to our government than the English
papers. The most detestable paper printed in London, is called, "The Times;" and that is often
thrown in our way; but even this paper is not to be compared to the "Federal Republican," printed
at Washington or Georgetown, or to the Boston federal papers. When such papers are shown to
us by the English here we are fairly brought up, and know not what to say.

I cannot answer precisely for the impressions Governor Strong's speeches and proclamations
have made on others, I can only answer for myself. They very much surprised and grieved me.
I was born in the same county where Mr. Strong resided, and where I believe he has always lived
and I had always entertained a respect for his serious character, and have, from my boyhood,
considered him among the very sensible men, and even saints of our country; and all my connections
and relations gave their votes for good Caleb Strong, on whose judgment and public conduct,
my parents taught me to rely, with as much confidence as if he had actually been a thirteenth
apostle. Just then what must have been my surprise, on reading his proclamations for fasts
and thanksgivings, and his speeches and messages to the legislature and his conduct relative
to the general government and the militia; and above all for his strange conduct in organizing
a convention of malcontents at Hartford, in Connecticut. No event in New England staggered
me so much. When we learnt that he proclaimed England to be "the bulwark of the holy religion
we profess," I concluded that it was a party calumny, until I saw its confirmation in the attempts
of his friends to vindicate the assertion. I then concluded that one of two things must have
existed; either Mr. Strong had become superannuated and childish, or that the English Faction
had got behind his chair of government and under the table of the counsel-board, and in the
hollow panels of his audience chamber, and completely bewitched our political Barzilla. I suspected
that gang of Jesuits, the Essex Junto, had put out his eyes, and was leading him into danger
and disgrace. It is undeniable that Governor Strong has, in his public addresses, sided more
with the declared enemy, Britain, than with his own national government; and that he has said
a great deal tending to encourage the enemy to persist in their demands, and to pursue the
war, than he has to discourage them. It appears, in truth, that the English consider him in
a great measure their friend and well wisher.

Is it possible that Governor Strong can be deluded away by the missionary and bible societies
of Old England, so as to mistake the English for a religious people? I am very confident that
there is less religion, or appearance of it, in London and in all their large cities, than
in any other civilized country of the same numbers, in Europe. Their national churches are
empty, while their streets and their harbors are full of lewdness; and they have more thieves,
gamblers, forgers, cheats and bawds than any other nation upon earth. Add to this, their laws
are bloody, beyond modern example, their military punishments horrible, and their treatment
of prisoners of war a disgrace to the name of Christians. Can Governor Strong be totally ignorant
of the policy of some in patronizing bible and missionary societies? And does he not see the
impracticability of the scheme contemplated by the latter? If we divide the known countries
of the globe into thirty equal parts, five will be found to be Christians, six Mahometans,
and NINETEEN Pagans. It is difficult to believe that the first man, the governor and commander
in chief of the great and respectable commonwealth of Massachusetts, can seriously expect that
the missionary societies of England and of Boston can effect this immense task or that it ever
was the design of Providence that all the families of the earth should think alike on subjects
of religion. Let us take things as the sons of men have always found them, and not presume
to oppugn Providence, who has decreed that there shall be, every where, men of different colours,
countenances, voices, manner of speaking, of different feelings and views of things, and also
of different languages and of different opinions, as it regards the Deity, and his government
of the world; and that among this great and doubtless necessary diversity of the views of him,
we may have the most pure and rational system of any. Let us then enjoy that system, encourage
a virtuous education and love one another, and leave to his direction and control the myriads
of rational beings on earth, of which we, Christians, make so small a part. No, no, my countrymen,
if Governor Strong will not attend exclusively to the mere affairs of the state, with its relative
duties, and leave the great world to the legislation of its great Creator, you had better allow
him to retire to Northampton, there to study in silence how to govern his own heart, and how
to work out his own salvation, instead of continuing the tool of a turbulent and vicious party.
I still think Mr. Strong is a man of good intentions, and an honest patriot; but that he has
been deluded by artful men, who in their scheme of governing the whole nation have found their
account in placing at the head of their party in Massachusetts, a man of correct morals and
manners, and of a reputed religious cast of mind. But Mr. Strong should reflect; and being
a phlegmatic man, he is able to reflect calmly, and consider things deliberately. He should
reflect, I say, on the impression his remarkable conduct must have on the minds of his countrymen,
who have risked their lives, and are now suffering a severe bondage in that great national
cause of "FREE TRADE AND NO IMPRESSMENT," which led the American people to declare war against
Britain, by the voice of their representatives, in congress assembled. How strange, and how
painful must it appear to us, and to our friends in Europe, that the governor of a great state
should lean more towards the Prince Regent of Britain, than to the President of the United
Stales! If, therefore, we consider Mr. Strong as a sensible and correct man, and a true patriot,
his conduct as governor of Massachusetts, especially as to the time of organizing a convention,
of which the English promised themselves countenance and aid, must have appeared more than
strange to us in captivity.

If we contemplate the character of the leading men of that party which put into office, and
still support Governor Strong, and with whom he has co-operated, we cannot clear this gentleman
of reproach. Previously to our late contest with Britain, it was the unceasing endeavor of
the leaders of the federal party to bring into discredit, and contempt, the worthiest and best
men of the nation; to ridicule and degrade every thing American, or that reflected honor on
the American Independence. So bitter was their animosity; so insatiate their thirst for power,
and high places, that they did not hesitate to advocate measures for the accomplishment of
their grand object, which was to get into the places of those now in power. How often have
we seen the party declaring in their venal prints, that the American administration was base,
and cowardly, and tamely suffering the outrages, abuses and contempt of the nations of Europe,
without possessing the spirit to resent, or the power to resist them; and that "we could not
be kicked into a war." Yet after the administration had exhausted every effort to bring England
to do justice, and war was declared, these very federalists called the act wicked and inhuman;
and denounced the President for plunging the country into hostilities with the mistress of
the ocean, the most powerful nation of the earth! They called this act of Congress, "Madison's
War," and did every thing in their power to render that upright man odious in the eyes of the
unthinking part of the community. This was not all; these arrogant men, assumed to themselves
"all the talents," and "all the virtues" of the country, used every mean in their power to
paralyze the arm of government, and reduce the energies of the nation, in the face and front
of our adversary. By arguments and threats, they induced the monied men in Massachusetts, very
generally, to refuse loans of money to government; and to ruin our resources. Did not this
party, denominated federalists, exult at the disasters of our arms; and did they not vote in
the Senate of Massachusetts, that "it was unworthy a religious and moral people, to rejoice
at the immortal achievements of our gallant seamen?" In the midst of our difficulties, when
this powerful enemy threatened us by sea and land, with an army force from Penobscot, another
through Lake Champlain, another at the Chesapeake, while nothing but resistance and insurgency
was talked of and hinted at within! Did they not in this state of things, and with these circumstances,
did not Governor Strong, and the federal party generally, seize hold of this alarming state
of our affairs, to call the Convention at Hartford, and that not merely to perplex the government,
but to be the organ of communication between the enemy and the malcontents? Did they not then
talk loudly of our worm eaten Constitution; and did they not call the Union "a rope of sand,"
that could no longer hold together? If there be a line of transgression, beyond the bounds
of forgiveness, the leaders of that party, who put Mr. Strong up for Governor, have attained
it. These things I gather from the papers, and from the history of the day, as I have collected
them since my return home. And to all this must be added the damning fact of Te Deums, orations,
toasts, and processions of the clergy, and the judges, with all the leaders of the federal,
or opposition party, in celebration of the success of the Spaniards in restoring the Inquisition,
and recalling the reign of superstition and terror; against which we have been preaching and
praying ever since the first settlement of our country.

Our American newspapers, if they are not so correctly written as the London papers, are informing
and amusing.--They show the enterprize, the activity, and the daring thoughts of a free and
an intrepid people; while the London papers are filled with a catalogue of nobles, and noblesses,
who were assembled to bow, to flatter, to cringe, and to prink at the levee of the Great Prince
Regent, the presumptive George the IVth, with now and then some account of his wandering wife,
the Princess of Wales. We are there also entertained with a daily account of the health and
gestation of Joanna Southcote; for whose reputation and welfare, "thinking Johnny Bull" is
vastly anxious; insomuch that were any continental nation to run obstinately counter to the
popular opinion respecting her, we do deem it not impossible that the majority of the nation
might be led to sign addresses to the Prince to go to war with them, in honor of Saint Joanna!
Their papers, likewise, contain a particular account of the examination of rogues by the Bow-street
officers, highway robberies, and executions; together with quack puffs, and miraculous cures.
These, together with the most glorious and unparalleled bravery of their officers and seamen,
and of their generals and soldiers, with the highest encomiums on the religion, the learning,
the generosity, contentment, and happiness of the people of Britain and Ireland, make up the
sum and substance of all the London papers, William Cobbett's alone excepted; and he speaks
with a bridle in his mouth!

This month (February) Captain Shortland stopped the market for six days, in consequence of
some unruly fellows taking away certain wooden stanchions from Prison No. 6. But the old market
women, conceiving that the Captain encroached upon their copy-hold, would not quietly submit
to it. They told him that as the men were going away soon, it was cruel to curtail their traffic.
We always believed that these market women, and the shop and stall keepers, and Jews, purchased,
in some way or other, the unequal traffic between them and us. Be that as it may, Shortland
could not resist the commercial interest, so that he, like good Mr. Jefferson, listened to
the clamor of the merchants, and raised the embargo.

No sooner was quiet restored, and the old women and Jews pacified, but a serious discontent
arose among the prisoners, on discovering that these Jews, of all complexions, had raised the
price of their articles, on the idea, we supposed, that we should not much longer remain the
subjects of their impositions. The rough allies, a sort of regulators, who were too stout,
and most commonly too insolent, to be governed by our regular and moderate committees, turned
out in a great rage, and tore down several of the small shops, or stalls, where slops were
exposed for sale. These fellows, at length, organized themselves into a company of plunderers.
I have seen men run from their sleeping births, in which they spent nearly their whole time,
and plunder these little shop keepers, and carry the articles they plundered, and secrete them
in their beds. These mobs, or gangs of robbers, were a scandal to the American character; and
strongly reprobated by every man of honor in the prisons. Some of these little British merchants
found themselves stripped of all they possessed in a few minutes, on the charge of exorbitant
prices. We never rested, nor allowed these culprits to rest, until we saw the cat laid well
on their backs. These plunderings were in consequence of informers, and there was no name,
not even that of a federalist, was so odious with all the prisoners, as that of an informer.
We never failed to punish an informer. Nothing but the advanced age of a man, (who was sixty
years old) prevented him from being whipped for informing Captain Shortland of what the old
man considered an injury, and for which he put the man accused, into the black hole. An informer,
a traitor, and an avowed federalist, were objects of detestation at Dartmoor.

During the time that passed between the news of peace, and that of its ratification, an uneasy
and mob-like disposition, more than once betrayed itself. Three impressed American seamen had
been sent in here from a British ship of war, since the peace. They were on board the Pelican,
in the action with the American ship Argus, when fell our brave Captain Allen. One day, when
all three were a little intoxicated, they boasted of the feats they performed, in fighting
against their own countrymen; and even boasted of the prize money they had shared for capturing
the Argus. This our prisoners could not endure; and it soon reached the ears of the rough allies,
who seized them, and kicked and cuffed them about unmercifully; and they took one of them,
who had talked more imprudently than the rest, and led him to the lamp iron that projected
from one of the prisons, and would, in all probability, have hanged him thereon, had not Shortland
rescued him by an armed force. They had fixed a paper on the fellow's breast, on which was
written, in large letters, a Traitor and a Federalist.

It may seem strange to some, but I am confident that there is no class of people among us more
strongly attached to the American soil, than our seamen, who are floating about the world,
and seldom tread on the ground. The sailor who roams about the world, marks the difference
of treatment, and exults in the superior advantages of his countrymen. The American custom
of allowing on board merchant ships the common sailors to traffic a little in adventures, enlarges
their views, makes them think and enquire, and excites an interest in the sales of the whole
cargo. The common sailor here feels a sort of unity of interest; and he is habituated to feel
as a member of the floating store-house which he is navigating. It is doubtful whether the
British sailor feels any thing of this.

I have had occasion often to remark on the tyrannical conduct, and unfeeling behaviour of Captain
Shortland, but he had for it the excuse of an enemy; but the neglect of Mr. Beasley, with his
supercilious behaviour towards his countrymen here confined, admits of no excuse. He was bound
to assist us and befriend us, and to listen to our reasonable complaints. When negro John wrote
to his Royal Highness the Duke of Kent, son of king George the 3d, and brother of the Prince
Regent, he received an answer in terms of kindness and reason; but Mr. Beasley, who was paid
by our government for being our agent, and official friend, never condescended to answer our
letters, and if they ever were noticed, it was in the style of reproof.--His conduct is here
condemned by six thousand of his countrymen; and as many curses are daily uttered on him in
this prison. It is almost treason in this our dismal Commonwealth, or rather common misery,
to speak in his favour. If Shortland and Beasley were both drowning, and one only could be
taken out by the prisoners of Dartmoor, I believe in my soul, that that one would be Shortland;
for, as I said before, he has the excuse of an enemy.

The prisoners have been long determined to testify their feelings towards Mr. Beasley, before
they left Dartmoor; and the time for it has arrived. The most ingenious of our countrymen are
now making a figure resemblance, or effigy of this distinguished personage. One has contributed
a coat, another pantaloons, another a shirt-bosom or frill, another a stuffed-out-cravat; and
so they have made up a pretty genteel, haughty-looking-gentleman-agent, with heart and brains
full equal, they think, to the person whom they wish to represent. They called this figure
Mr. B----. They then brought him to trial. He was indicted for many crimes towards them, and
towards the character of the United States. The jury declared him to be guilty of each and
every charge; and he was sentenced by an unanimous decree of his judges, to be hanged by the
neck until he was dead, and after that to be burnt. They proceeded with him to the place of
execution, which was from the roof of prison No. 7, where a pole was rigged out, to which was
attached an halter. After silence was proclaimed, the halter was fastened round the neck of
the effigy; and then a solemn pause ensued; which apparent solemnity was befitting the character
of men who were convinced of the necessity of the punishment of the guilty, while they felt
for the sufferings and shame of a fellow mortal. After hanging the proper time, the hangman,
who was a negro, cut him down; and then the rough allies took possession of him, and conducted
him to a convenient spot in the yard, where they burnt him to ashes. This was not, like the
plunder of the shop-keepers, the conduct of an infuriate mob; but it was begun and carried
through by some of the steadiest men within the walls of Dartmoor prison.--They said they had
no other way of testifying their contempt of a man, who they supposed had injured them all,
and disgraced their country. Such was the fact; as to the justness of their charges, I have
nothing to say. I hope Mr. B. can vindicate his conduct to the world; and I hope this publication
may lead to a thing so much wished for. The accusations of the multitude are commonly well
founded, but often too high coloured. If this gentleman has never been censured by our government,
we may conclude that he has not been quite so faulty as has been represented.

During all this solemn farce, poor Shortland looked like a culprit under sentence of death.
Some of the rogues had written, with chalk, on the walls, BE YOU ALSO READY!--This commander's
situation could not be an enviable one. He was, probably, as courageous a man as the ordinary
run of British officers; but it was plainly discoverable that he was, half his time, in dread,
and during the scene just described, in terror, which was perceivable amidst his affected smiles,
and assumed gaiety. He told a gentleman, belonging to this depot, that he never saw, nor ever
read, or heard of such a set of Devil-daring, God-provoking fellows, as these same Yankees.
And he added, I had rather have the charge of five thousand Frenchmen, than FIVE HUNDRED of
these sons of liberty; and yet, said he, I love the dogs better than I do the damn'd frog-eaters.

On the 30th of March we received the heart-cheering news of the total defeat of the British
army before NEW-ORLEANS, with the death of its commander in chief, Sir Edward Pakenham, and
Generals Gibs and Kean, with a great number of other officers, and about five thousand rank
and file killed and wounded; and what appeared to be absolutely incredible, this unexampled
slaughter of the enemy was achieved with the loss of less than twenty killed and wounded on
our side. Instead of shouting and rejoicing, as in ordinary victories, we seemed mute with
astonishment. Yes! when we saw the Englishmen walking with folded arms, looking down on the
ground, we had not the heart to exult, especially as the war was now ended. I speak for myself--there
was no event that tended so much to reconciliation and forgiveness as this immense slaughter
of the English. We felt that this victory was too bloody not to stifle loud exultation.

We had heard of Generals Dearborn, Brown, Scott, Ripley, Gaines and Miller, but no one knew
who General Andrew Jackson was; but we said that it was a New-England name, and we had no doubt
but he was a full blooded yankee, there being many of that name in New-Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Vermont, Rhode Island and Connecticut.--But I have since heard that he was a village lawyer
in Tennessee, and a native of South Carolina.

The more particulars we hear of this extraordinary victory, the more we were astonished. We
cannot be too grateful to Heaven for allowing us, a people of yesterday, to wind up the war
with the great and terrible nation, the mistress of the ocean, in a manner and style that will
inspire respect from the present and future race of men. Nothing now is thought of or talked
of, but New-Orleans and Jackson, and Jackson and New-Orleans. We already perceive that we are
treated with more respect, and our country spoken of in honorable terms. The language now is
"we are all one and the same people. You have all English blood in your veins, and it is no
wonder that you fight bravely!" Sometimes they have uttered the slang of "The Times," and cast
reflections on the government, and on President Madison, but we have always resented it, nor
do we ever allow any one to speak disrespectfully of our illustrious chief magistrate.

About the middle of the present month, (March) we received the news of the landing of Napoleon
in France, while every one here supposed him snug at Elba. The news came to England, and passed
through it like thunder and lightning, carrying with it astonishment and dismay. But as much
as they dread, and of course hate Bonaparte, the British cannot but admire his fortune and
his glory. There are a number of Frenchmen yet here; and it is impossible for man to shew more
joy at this news from France. They collected together and shouted Vive l'Empereur! and the
yankees joined them, with huzza for Bonaparte; and this we kept up incessantly, to plague the
British. The English bear any thing from us with more patience, than our expressions of affection
for the Emperor Napoleon. Now the fact is, we care no more for the French, than they do for
us; and there is but little love between us; yet we pretend great respect and affection for
that nation, and their chief, principally to torment overbearing surly John Bull, who thinks
that we ought to love nobody but him, while he himself never does any thing to inspire that love.

About the 20th of this month, we received the heart cheering tidings of the RATIFICATION OF
THE TREATY OF PEACE, by the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. This long expected event threw
us all into such a rapturous roar of joy, that we made old Dartmoor shake under us, with our
shouts; and to testify our satisfaction we illuminated this depot of misery. Even Shortland
affected joy, and was seen more than once, like Milton's Devil, to "grin horribly a ghastly smile."

As there can be now no longer a doubt of our being soon set at liberty, our attention is directed
to the agent for prisoners for fixing the time, and arranging the means. Mr. Beasley had written
that as soon as the Treaty was ratified, he would make every exertion for our speedy departure.
He must be aware of our extreme impatience to leave this dreary spot, whose brown and grassless
surface renders it a place more proper for convicts, than an assemblage of patriots.

We are all watching the countenance and conduct of our surly keeper, Shortland: and it is the
general opinion that he is deeply chagrined at the idea of no longer domineering over us. It
may be, also, that the peace may reduce him to half pay. I, myself, am of opinion, that he
is dissatisfied at the idea of our escaping his fangs, with whole skins; and his dark and sullen
countenance gathers every day additional blackness.

April 4th.--The contractor's clerk being desirous to get off his hands the hard biscuit, which
had been held in reserve in case of bad weather, attempted to serve it out to the prisoners
at this time; but the committee refused to receive it. Nothing but hard bread was served out
to them this day. In the evening, several hundred of the prisoners entered the market square,
and demanded their soft bread; but it was refused. The officers persuaded them to retire, but
they would not, before they received their usual soft bread. The military officers, finding
that it was in vain to appease them, as they had but about three hundred militia to guard five
or six thousand, complied with their request, and all was quietness and contentment.

During this little commotion, Captain Shortland was gone from home. He returned next day, when
he expressed his dissatisfaction at the conduct of the military, who he said, should not have
complied with the demand of the prisoners. As it was, however, past, and the prisoners were
tranquil, and no signs of disturbance remaining, he grew pacified.

On the 4th of April, we received intelligence, which we supposed correct, that seven cartel
ships were to sail from the Thames for Plymouth, to transport us home, and that several more
were in preparation. This inspired us with high spirits, and good humor; and I distinctly remember
that the prisoners appeared to enjoy their amusements, such as playing ball and the like, beyond
what I had ever before observed. We all, in fact, felt light hearted, from the expectation
of soon leaving this dreary abode, to return to our dear homes, and adored country. But how
was the scene changed before the light of another day! Dead and wounded men, blood and horror,
made up the scenery of this fatal evening!

The best account that could possibly be given, is that of a respectable committee, selected
from among the best characters in this large assemblage of American prisoners. The greater
part of this committee, were men of no mean talents. They were not young men, but had arrived
at that period of life, when judgment is the soundest, and when passion does not betray reason.
The anxiety of all to know the truth, and the solemn manner in which the evidence was collected
and given, stamped the transaction with the characters of truth. I did not see the beginning
of this affray. I was, with most of the other prisoners, eating my evening's meal in the building,
when I heard the alarm bell, and soon after a volley of musketry. There were, I believe, before
the alarm bell rung, a few hundred prisoners, scattered here and there about the yards, as
usual; but I had no idea of any particular collection of them, nor had I any suspicion of any
commotion existing, or meditated. But I forbear; and will here insert the report of the committee,
in the correctness of which I place an entire confidence.

    DARTMOOR MASSACRE.

    Having seen in print several different statements of the massacre
    of the American prisoners of war at Dartmoor, and, on perusal,
    finding, that, though they corroborate each other, as to the
    leading facts, yet it seems the public are not in possession of
    all the particulars necessary to form a proper judgement of the
    same.

    While in prison, we having been members of the committee through
    whom was transacted all their public business, and through whose
    hands passed all their correspondence with their agent in London,
    and having in our possession several documents relating to the
    before mentioned brutal butchery, we deem it a duty we owe to our
    murdered countrymen and fellow-citizens in general to have them
    published.

    Respecting the conduct of T. G. SHORTLAND, (commander-of the depot
    of Dartmoor) prior to the bloody and ever memorable sixth of
    April, it was a series of continued insult, injury and vexation to
    the prisoners generally. Incapable of appreciating the beneficial
    effects of the liberal policy of a gentleman, his sole study
    appeared to be devising means to render the situation of the
    prisoners as disagreeable as possible. To instance a few of his
    proceedings will sufficiently warrant the foregoing assertion. His
    conduct to the American officers was marked with peculiar baseness
    and indignity. In the construction of the depot at Dartmoor, there
    was a separate prison, built and enclosed for the more commodious
    accommodation of those officers (prisoners of war) who were not
    considered by them entitled to a parole. Instead of Shortland
    allowing those officers to occupy that prison, they were turned
    into the other prisons promiscuously, with their men. His conduct
    to the prisoners generally was of the same stamp. There not being,
    at any time, a sufficient number to occupy all the prisons, he
    kept the two best, which were built by the Frenchmen during their
    confinement, and more conveniently fitted for the accommodation of
    prisoners, shut and unoccupied, while the upper stories of those
    prisons in which the Americans were put, were in such a state
    that on every rain storm the floors were nearly inundated. The
    pernicious effect this had on the health of the prisoners may be
    easily judged of by the great mortality that prevailed among them
    during the last winter season.

    Another instance of his murderous disposition, was his ordering
    his guards to fire into the prisons, when, at any time, a light
    was seen burning during the night, as specified in the general
    report. While the Frenchmen were confined in that depot, it was a
    custom for the turnkey, with a sentry, to go into each prison, and
    see the lights extinguished at a stated hour; although frequently
    lighted again there was no further molestation. Instead of
    pursuing this plan with the Americans, Shortland gave orders for
    the guards to fire into the prisons whenever there should be a
    light burning. Frequently, on the most trivial occasions, he would
    prevent the prisoners, for ten days at a time, from purchasing, in
    the market, of the country people, such articles of comfort and
    convenience as their scanty means would admit of. His last act of
    this kind, was but a short time previous to the massacre, and his
    alledged reason for it was, that the prisoners would not deliver
    up to him a man who had made his escape from the black hole, (a
    place of confinement for criminals) and had taken refuge among the
    prisoners in general. This man was one of a prize-crew, who was
    confined in that dark and loathsome cell, on a short allowance of
    provisions, from June, 1814, until the ratification of the treaty.
    On that man being demanded, the prisoners stated to Shortland,
    that they did not presume that the British government would expect
    them to stand sentry over each other--that he might send his
    turnkeys and soldiers in and look for the man, but they would not
    seek him and deliver him up--upon which he ordered the military to
    fire upon the prisoners, but owing to the coolness and
    deliberation of the then commanding military officer, in
    restraining them, this order was not obeyed.

    To sum up the whole in a few words, his conduct, throughout, was
    marked by the same illiberal prejudice, overbearing insult, and
    savage barbarity, which characterizes the majority of English
    officers when they have Americans in their power.

    The enclosed papers, from No. 1 to 16 inclusive, are the
    depositions taken by the committee of investigation on the 7th.
    Colonel AYRE arrived from Plymouth and took command of this depot.
    Shortland sent in a message to the committee, requesting their
    attendance at his office, to which was returned for answer, that
    considering him a murderer, they were determined to have no
    communication with him--but added, if the commanding officer from
    Plymouth had any thing to communicate, they would wait on him;
    and, at his request, they went up to the gate, where they stated
    to him all the particulars of the affair.

    He expressed great regret for what had occurred, and assured the
    prisoners that no further violence should be used upon them. In
    the mean time Shortland made his appearance. Instantly the
    indignant cry of murderer, scoundrel, villain, burst from the lips
    of hundreds. The guilty wretch stood appalled, not daring to offer
    a syllable in vindication of his conduct; but with a pallid visage
    and trembling step, returned to his guard-house, from whence he
    was never seen to emerge while we remained there. In the course of
    the day, a rear-admiral and post captain arrived from Plymouth,
    sent by Sir J. T. Duckworth, commander in chief on that station,
    to enquire into the transaction; to whom we likewise fully stated,
    by the committee, all the particulars, together with Shortland's
    previous infamous conduct. Their scandalous misrepresentation of
    the same to the admiralty board, as will be seen in their
    statement No. 20, is truly characteristic of the British official
    accounts. We likewise wrote to Mr. Beasly on that day, giving him
    a short history of the affair, but as he did not acknowledge the
    receipt of the letter, we concluded it had been intercepted. On
    the 14th we received a letter from him dated the 12th, of which
    No. 18 is a copy--in answer to which No. 19 is a copy. On the 16th
    we received another from him, of which No. 20 is a copy; in the
    interim he had seen a copy of our report, sent by a private
    conveyance, which seemed to have greatly altered his opinion
    concerning the affair. In his letter of the 14th was an extract
    from the statement or report sent him by the admiralty board. On
    receiving which we wrote to admiral Duckworth, of which No. 21 is
    a copy.

    On the 22d of April, Mr. King, appointed by the American agents at
    London, and a Mr. Larpent on the part of the government, with a
    magistrate of the county of Devon, arrived at the depot to
    investigate the affair; they were employed the greater part of
    three days in taking the deposition, respecting the same; and
    though we would not hastily prejudge Mr. King's report, we deem it
    necessary to state, that our anticipations of it are not of the
    most favourable nature, from his not appearing to take that
    interest in the affair which the injuries his countrymen had
    received demanded, as far the greater part of their time was
    employed in taking the depositions of Shortland's witnesses, most
    of whom were the principal actors, on that day, and of course were
    implicated with him in his guilt. On learning Mr. King was about
    leaving the depot, we addressed a note to him, stating, that we
    had a number of witnesses waiting, whose depositions we conceived
    would be of importance, and requested him to have them taken; we
    received to this note no answer, and he immediately left the
    depot. The particular points on which those depositions would have
    born, related to the picking the hole in the wall and breaking the
    locks of the gate leading into the market-square--they would have
    exonerated the prisoners generally from having any share in those
    acts, or even a knowledge of their having been committed. As these
    were the two principal points on which Shortland rested his plea
    of justification, we deemed it highly necessary that they should
    have been placed in a proper point of view. As for an idea of the
    prisoners attempting to break out, a moment's reflection would
    convince any impartial man of its improbability. Every prisoner
    that had a sufficiency of money to defray his expenses, could
    obtain his release and a passport, by applying to Mr. Beasly, or
    through their correspondence in England; those who had not funds
    would not have left the depot had the gates been thrown open,
    having no means of subsistence in a foreign country, and there
    being a very hot press of seamen at that time, they knew their
    risk of being kidnapped was great, and when, by staying a few
    days longer, they were assured they would be embarked for their
    native country. The infamous falsehoods circulated in the English
    prints, of the prisoners having armed themselves with knives,
    clubs, stones, &c. seized a part of the guard and disarmed them,
    and other similar reports, are unworthy of notice; for when the
    disturbance occurred on the fourth of April, concerning bread, the
    prisoners having burst open the inner gates, had they the least
    disposition, they might have immolated the whole garrison, as they
    were completely surprised and panic struck.

    The artful policy of the British officers in coupling the
    transactions of the 6th of April with that of burning Mr. Beasly's
    effigy, may easily be seen through; the latter was done a
    fortnight previous, by a few individuals, without its being
    generally known, or the least disturbance concerning it; and we
    deem it but justice to state, that whatever negligence Mr. Beasly
    may have been guilty of, respecting the affairs of the prisoners,
    he should be totally exonerated from all blame respecting the
    massacre.

    There was an instance that occurred on the evening of the 6th,
    which reflects so much credit on the Americans, it should not be
    passed over in silence. When the brutal soldiery were following
    the prisoners in the yards, stabbing and firing among them, a lamp
    lighter, who had come in a few moments previous, ran into No. 3
    prison, to escape being murdered by his own countrymen; on being
    recognized, a rope was fixed for hanging him immediately. In this
    moment of irritation, when their slaughtered and bleeding
    countrymen lay groaning around them in the agonies of dissolution,
    such an act of vengeance, at that time would not have been
    singular--but on its being represented to them, by some
    influential characters, that such a deed would stain the American
    name, to their honour be it recorded, that humanity triumphed over
    vengeance, the trembling wretch was released, and told to go--"We
    disdain to copy after your countrymen, and murder you at this
    advantage, we will seek a more noble revenge."

    We deem it necessary here to remark, as some editors have
    manifested a disposition to vindicate Shortland's conduct, that,
    allowing every circumstance to be placed in the most unfavourable
    point of view for the prisoners, suppose, for a moment, it was
    their intention to break out, and a number had collected in the
    market square for that purpose, when, being charged upon by the
    military, they retreated out of the square into their respective
    prison-yards, and shut the gates after them without making any
    resistance whatever; under such circumstances no further
    opposition could have been expected, and, consequently, their
    intention must have been completely defeated. What justification
    can there then be made to appear for the subsequent brutal,
    unprecedented butchery and mutilation? NONE! The most shameless
    and barefaced advocates and apologizers for British injustice
    cannot produce any.

                                         WALTER COLTON, } Members of
                                         THOS. B. MOTT, }     the
                                         WM. HOBART,    } Committee.

    DEPOSITION No. I.

    I, Addison Holmes, being solemnly sworn on the holy evangelists
    of Almighty God, depose and say--

    That on the 6th of April, about 6 o'clock in the evening, I was in
    the market-square, where the soldiers were drawn up. There was a
    number of Americans in the square--to the best of my judgment,
    between fifty and a hundred. I distinctly heard Captain Shortland
    order the soldiers to charge on the prisoners, which they did not
    do till the order was repeated by their own officers, when they
    charged, and the prisoners retreated through the gates, which they
    shut to after them. In this interim I had got behind a sentry box,
    in the square, and the soldiers went past me. I saw Captain
    Shortland open the gates, and distinctly heard him give the word
    to fire, which was not immediately obeyed, the commanding officer
    of the soldiers observing, that he would not order the men to
    fire, but that he (Shortland) might do as he pleased. I then saw
    Captain Shortland seize hold of a musket, in the hands of a
    soldier, which was immediately fired--but I am not able to say
    whether he or the soldier pulled the trigger. At this time I was
    endeavouring to get through the gate to the prison-yard--in so
    doing several stabs were made at me with bayonets, which I evaded.
    Immediately after the firing became general, and I retreated, with
    the remainder of the prisoners, down the yard, the soldiers
    following and firing on the prisoners; after I had got into No. 3
    prison, I heard two vollies fired into the prison, that killed one
    man and wounded another--and further the deponent saith not.

                                                       ADDISON HOLMES.

    We, the undersigned, being duly appointed and sworn as a committee
    to take the depositions of those persons who were eye witnesses of
    the late horrid massacre, certify that the above deponents, being
    duly and solemnly sworn on the holy evangelists of Almighty God,
    did depose and say as before written, which was severally read to
    each one who subscribed the same.

                                                    William B. Orne,
                                                    Francis Joseph,
                                                    Walter Colton,
                                                    Wm. Hobart,
                                                    James Adams,
                                                    James Boggs.

    [A certificate similar to the foregoing, is attached to each of
    the depositions. The originals are now in our hands.]

    No. II. At
    this time most of the prisoners were in the prisons; a number with
    us ran up the market square, out of curiosity, to see what was the
    matter; there were about one hundred collected in the square, and
    a number were standing by the gates inside the prison yard; the
    soldiers were drawn up in the upper part of the square; orders
    were given them to charge, on which the prisoners retreated out of
    the square, and some of the last which came through the gates,
    shut them to; the soldiers then commenced firing on them through
    the iron pailings, and fired several vollies in succession. The
    prisoners were, at this time endeavouring to get into their
    respective prisons, when the soldiers perceived that they were all
    dispersed from the gates, they followed them into the yard, and
    continued firing on them; and after all the prisoners had got into
    the prisons, a party of soldiers pursuing them, came up to the
    door of No. 3 prison, and fired two vollies into the prison, which
    killed one man and mortally wounded another.

    We further solemnly declare, that there was no pre-concerted plan
    or intention among the prisoners to make an attempt to break out,
    or to resist, in any manner, the authority of the government of
    the depot.

                                                   John T. Foster,
                                                   Elisha Whitten,
                                                   Isaac L. Burr,
                                                   Charles Perry,
                                                   James Grennlaw,
                                                   Wm. B. Orne,
                                                   Geo. Stinchecomb,
                                                   William Perry,
                                                   Richard Downing.

    Done at Dartmoor Prison, this 7th day of April 1815.

    No. III.

                                                    ANDREW DAVIS, JUN.

    No. IV.

    We, the undersigned, depose and say--

    That on the 6th of April, in the evening, we were in the yard of
    No. 1 and No. 3 prisons, when we heard the firing at the gates,
    and saw the prisoners all endeavoring to get into their respective
    prisons. In going down towards the lower door of the prisons, we
    saw a party of soldiers, who were posted on the walls, commence
    firing on the prisoners, and we saw a man fall, who immediately
    died, and several others were badly wounded before they were able
    to get into the prisons.

                                                    Amos Cheeney,
                                                    Washington Fox,
                                                    John Smith,
                                                    Harris Keeney,
                                                    James Coffen,
                                                    Thomas Williams,
                                                    Henry Casey.

    No. V.

    Homer Hull, after being duly sworn on the holy evangelists of
    Almighty God, deposeth and saith--

    On the 6th of April, about six o'clock in the evening, I was
    walking in the yard of No. 7 prison; all being as tranquil among
    the prisoners as usual; I observed an unusual number of soldiers
    mounting the walls; and one of them called to one of the
    prisoners, and told him he (the prisoner) had better go into the
    prison, as the prisoners would soon be charged upon. While he was
    asking the cause of such a proceeding, I heard the alarm bell
    ringing. I immediately run to the gates leading to the square,
    when I saw Captain Shortland at the head of the armed soldiery
    marching down to the gratings, the prisoners at the same time
    running to see what was the matter; on the soldiers coming to the
    gratings, Capt. Shortland ordered them to charge, which they did;
    the prisoners immediately run to their respective prisons; on
    passing through the inner gate they closed it after them. Then I
    heard Captain Shortland order the soldiers to FIRE, which they
    commenced to do in every direction of the yard, when the prisoners
    were making every effort to reach their prisons. I did not see any
    violence used on the part of the prisoners, nor do I believe any
    violence was intended or premeditated.

                                                           HOMER HULL.

    I, Joseph C. Morgan, having been duly sworn, and having read the
    foregoing deposition, do declare the statement therein mentioned,
    to be true.

                                                         J. C. MORGAN.

                                                     Joseph Reeves,
                                                     James Greenlaw,
                                                     Isaac L. Burr,
                                                     Thomas Tindal.

    No. VII.

    We, the undersigned, depose and say--

    That on the 6th of April, in the evening, after all the prisoners
    in No. 1 and 3 yards had got into their respective prisons, a
    party of soldiers came up to the door of No. 3 prison--we were
    standing near the door at the time, and saw them fire TWO VOLLIES
    into the prison, which killed one man and wounded another.

                                                     William Scanck,
                                                     James Greenlaw,
                                                     John Latham,
                                                     John Glass.

    No. VIII.

    Enoch Burnham, having been duly sworn, deposeth--

    That he was standing at the market gate at the time Capt.
    Shortland came into the market square with a large party of
    soldiers (it being then about 6 o'clock.) They immediately formed
    a line in the square--at that time a number of prisoners got into
    the square from the yard of No. 1 prison, and had advanced a few
    steps; the soldiers then charged, and the prisoners immediately
    retreated to their prisons, without the least resistance. After
    the prisoners had retired to the yards of the prison, the soldiery
    formed a line, and commenced firing in the yards, the prison gates
    being closed by the prisoners; shortly after they kept up a heavy
    fire, and I saw one man fall. I immediately hastened to No. 5
    prison, but on reaching No. 7, I found there was a party of
    soldiers on the wall, firing from every direction. I then got safe
    in No. 7, where, after remaining at the north end window for a few
    moments, I saw a man (a prisoner) leaning against the wall,
    apparently wounded, with his hands in a supplicating posture--at
    the same time, I saw several soldiers present and fire at the
    prisoner, and he fell dead on the spot.

                                                        ENOCH BURNHAM.

    No. IX.

    Edward Coffin, being duly sworn, deposed, that on the sixth of
    April, about six o'clock in the afternoon, a few prisoners
    belonging to No. 5 and 7 prisons, broke a hole through the wall
    opposite No. 7 prison, as they said, to get a ball out of the
    barrack yard, which they had lost in their play. After they had
    broke through the wall, the officers and soldiers that were in the
    barrack yard, told them to desist, or they would fire upon them.
    Immediately after that the drum beat to arms, and the square was
    filled with soldiers, and without telling the prisoners to go to
    their prison, immediately commenced to charge and fire upon them.
    I immediately started to go to No. 5 prison, and the soldiers on
    the platforms on the walls commenced firing, and I should think
    near forty fired at myself and three others, as I am sure there
    were no other men in sight at that time between Nos. 5 and 6
    prisons. In going round No. 5 cook house, a prisoner was shot and
    killed very near me.

                                                        EDWARD COFFIN.

                                                Attest, HENRY ALLEN.

    No. X.

    Thomas B. Mott, having been duly sworn, deposed--

    About six o'clock in the evening of the 6th of April, I was called
    on by a number of persons, requesting me as one of the committee,
    to put a stop to some boys, whom they said were picking a hole
    through an inner wall, for which, they said, our provisions would
    be stopped to pay for. I asked what was their intentions in making
    the hole? They said it was for the purpose of obtaining a ball
    which they had lost in their play. I then repaired, with a number
    of respectable men, to make them desist; but before we got into
    the yard, a quick firing commenced. On my walking up the yard, was
    met by a number of prisoners retreating to their prisons, much
    alarmed; one of which I observed was badly wounded; he was
    bleeding freely from his wound--I could see the yard was clear of
    prisoners, or not more than two or three to be seen, and they
    retiring fast. I requested the wounded man to lean upon me, and I
    would assist him in some medical aid.--We had not advanced but a
    few steps, when we were fired on. I advanced, assuring the
    soldiery we had no hostile intentions. I then took the fainting
    man in my arms, when a volley of musketry was discharged full at
    us. I then retired immediately; there was but one of my prison
    doors unlocked, which was on the back of the prison. On turning
    the corner of the cook house, I found myself unexpectedly open to
    the fire of soldiers on the ramparts of the south wall;--their
    fire was kept up in so brisk a manner, that it appeared almost
    impossible to enter without being shot; but finding my situation
    very dangerous, I was determined to enter the prison, or die in
    the attempt. For that purpose, myself, with a number of others
    that had been standing behind the wing of the cook house, sallied
    out for the purpose of gaining our prison door, when a volley of
    musket balls showered in amongst us, killing two, and wounding
    others. On our entering the prison our doors were shut to keep
    them from firing in. Some little time after, the turnkey enquired
    for me; I went forward to the window; he requested me to deliver
    up the dead and wounded; I requested him to open the door, which
    he did, for that purpose. On passing out the dead and wounded, I
    was insulted by the soldiery, and on my replying, was charged
    upon, and with difficulty escaped, without being butchered; they
    likewise insulted the wounded as I gave them up, and threw the
    dead down in the mud, and spurned at them in a very unfeeling
    manner.

                                                        THOS. B. MOTT.

    No. XI.

    I, William Mitchell, being duly sworn upon the holy evangelists
    of Almighty God, depose and say--

    That, on the evening of the 6th of April, when the alarm
    commenced, I was in the lower part of No. 1 yard. I walked up
    towards the gate to learn the cause; when I had got about half
    way, I heard a single musket fired, and immediately after a whole
    volley. I then saw several men carrying one that was wounded, the
    soldiers keeping up the whole time a steady fire, and the
    prisoners all endeavoring to get into the prisons; the lower doors
    being closed in the interim; it was with much difficulty they
    could get in, the soldiers pursuing them the whole time, and
    charging them with bayonets; and after getting into the prison, I
    heard the firing of musketry in all directions round the prison:
    and further the deponent saith not.

                                                     WILLIAM MITCHELL.

    No. XII.

    I, John G. Gatchell, having been duly sworn, depose and say--

    That I was walking in the yard, towards the gate. The first I
    knew, was the soldiers coming into the yard, with Capt. Shortland
    at their head, when an immediate fire began from the soldiers, and
    one man fell within six feet of me. While in the act of rendering
    this man assistance, I heard Captain Shortland order the soldiers
    to kill the damn'd rascal--meaning me; immediately the soldiers
    came and pricked me with their bayonets, and I was forced to run
    to the prison at the hazard of my life, and leave the man that was
    wounded.

                                                     JOHN G. GATCHELL.

    No. XIII.

    James Taylor, having been duly sworn, deposeth, that he was
    standing at the gate in the market square, at the time Captain
    Shortland, with a file of soldiers, entered the square. Captain
    Shortland ordered a prisoner in the square to go into the prison,
    when he immediately complied. He then ordered the soldiers to
    charge; and instantly observed to the commanding officer of the
    military--"It is no use to charge on the damn'd Yankee
    rascals--FIRE"--when this commenced immediately. The prisoners at
    that time were rushing in the prisons as fast as possible, and
    principally out of the square.--After the prisoners were mostly in
    the prison of No. 4, a boy, of ten years of age, was shot through
    the body and killed, while in the door passage trying to get in,
    by the soldiers in the yard, in my presence, I being inside the
    prison; likewise one other man was shot through the thigh.

                                                         JAMES TAYLOR.

    No. XIV.

    Samuel Lowdy having been duly sworn, deposeth as follows:

    That he was in the yard of prison No. 4, at the time Robert
    Haywood was shot by the soldiery. He immediately took him up, for
    the purpose of carrying him to the hospital. In the square he met
    Capt. Shortland, and said, Capt. Shortland, this man is very badly
    wounded--I want to carry him to the hospital. Capt. Shortland
    replied, you damn'd son of a bitch, carry him back to the prison;
    and he was obliged to comply. After getting to the prison, one of
    the soldiers called him back, and he went up to the square with
    the man, and met Capt. Shortland, who said, heave him down there,
    (pointing to a sentry box) and away with you to the prison. At
    that time they were firing in the different yards. On leaving the
    square, we found the man was dead.

                                                         SAMUEL LOWDY.

    John Battice having been sworn, corroborates the evidence of
    Samuel Lowdy.

                                                         JOHN BATTICE.

    No. XV.

    William Potter, having been duly sworn, deposed--

    That while passing between No. 5 and 6 prisons, the soldiers
    commenced firing from the walls in three divisions, at a few of
    us; at that time there were only four prisoners in sight. After
    advancing a few steps, I found a man badly wounded. I stopped and
    picked the man up; during which time the soldiers kept an
    incessant fire at us, as likewise till we got to the prison of No.
    5.

                                                       WILLIAM POTTER.

    No. XVI. I
    walked up to the gate to learn the cause. I there saw there were a
    number of prisoners in the market square, and a great number of
    soldiers drawn up across the same; soon after they charged on the
    prisoners, who retreated out of the square into their respective
    prison yards, and shut the gates after them. I saw the soldiers
    advance up to the gates, and heard Capt. Shortland order them to
    fire, which they not immediately obeying, I saw him seize hold of
    a musket in the hands of a soldier, and direct it towards a
    prisoner, and heard him again repeat--"fire; God damn you,
    fire." Immediately afterwards the firing became general; the
    prisoners were all endeavoring to get into the prisons, which was
    attended with much difficulty, all the doors but one being
    closed--and further the deponent saith not.

                                                      DAVID S. WARREN.

    No. XVII.

    We, the undersigned, being each severally sworn on the holy
    evangelists of Almighty God, for the investigation of the
    circumstances attending the late horrid massacre, and having heard
    the depositions of a great number of witnesses, from our own
    personal knowledge, and from the depositions given in as
    aforesaid,

    =REPORT AS FOLLOWS:=

    That on the 6th of April, about six o'clock in the evening, when
    the prisoners were all quiet in their respective yards, it being
    about the usual time of turning in for night, and the greater part
    of the prisoners being then in the prisons, the alarm bell was
    rung, and many of the prisoners ran up to the market square to
    learn the occasion of the alarm. There were then drawn up in the
    square several hundred soldiers, with Capt. Shortland (the agent)
    at their head; it was likewise observed at the same time, that
    additional numbers of soldiers were posting themselves on the
    walls round the prison yards. One of them observed to the
    prisoners, that they had better go into the prisons, for they
    would be charged upon directly. This, of course, occasioned
    considerable alarm among them. In this moment of uncertainty, they
    were running in different directions, enquiring the cause of the
    alarm; some toward their respective prisons, and some toward the
    market square. When about one hundred were collected in the
    square, Capt. Shortland ordered the soldiers to charge upon them,
    which order the soldiers were reluctant in obeying, as the
    prisoners were using no violence; but on the order being repeated,
    they made a charge, and the prisoners retreated out of the square,
    into their prison yards, and shut the gate after them. Capt.
    Shortland, himself, opened the gates, and ordered the soldiers to
    fire in among the prisoners, who were all retreating in different
    directions towards their respective prisons. It appears there was
    some hesitation in the minds of the officers, whether or not it
    was proper to fire upon the prisoners in that situation; on which
    Shortland seized a musket out of the hands of a soldier, which he
    fired. Immediately after the fire became general, and many of the
    prisoners were either killed or wounded. The remainder were
    endeavoring to get into the prisons; when going towards the lower
    doors, the soldiers on the walls commenced firing on them from
    that quarter, which killed some and wounded others. After much
    difficulty, (all the doors being closed in the entrance, but one
    in each prison) the survivors succeeded in gaining the prisons;
    immediately after which, parties of soldiers came to the doors of
    Nos. 8 and 4 prisons, and fired several vollies into them through
    the windows and doors, which killed one man in each prison, and
    severely wounded others.

    It likewise appears, that the preceding butchery was followed up
    with a disposition of peculiar inveteracy and barbarity.

    One man who was severely wounded in No. 7 prison yard, and being
    unable to make his way to the prison, was come up with by the
    soldiers, whom he implored for mercy, but in vain; five of the
    hardened wretches immediately levelled their pieces at him, and
    shot him dead on the spot. The soldiers who were on the walls,
    manifested equal cruelty, by keeping up a constant fire on every
    prisoner they could see in the yards endeavoring to get into the
    prisons, when their numbers were very few, and when not the least
    shadow of resistance could be made or expected. Several of them
    had got into No. 3 prison cook house, which was pointed out by
    the soldiers on the walls, to those who were marching in from the
    square. They immediately went up and fired into the same, which
    wounded several. One of the prisoners ran out, with the intention
    of gaining his prison, but was killed before he reached the door.

    On an impartial consideration of all circumstances of the case, we
    are induced to believe that it was a premeditated scheme in the
    mind of Capt. Shortland, for reasons which we will now proceed to
    give.--As an illucidation of its origin, we will recur back to an
    event which happened some days previous. Captain Shortland was at
    the time, absent at Plymouth; but before going, he ordered the
    contractor, or his clerk, to serve out one pound of indifferent,
    hard bread, instead of one pound and a half of soft bread, their
    usual allowance. This the prisoners refused to receive. They
    waited all day in expectation of their usual allowance being
    served out; but at sun-set, finding this would not be the case,
    burst open the lower gates, and went up to the store, demanding to
    have their bread.

    The officers of the garrison, on being alarmed, and informed of
    these proceedings, observed that it was no more than right the
    prisoners should have their usual allowance, and strongly
    reprobated Captain Shortland, in withholding it from them. They
    were accordingly served with their bread, and quietly returned to
    their prison. This circumstance, with the censures that were
    thrown on his conduct, reached the ears of Shortland, on his
    return home, and he must then have determined on the diabolical
    plan of seizing the first slight pretext to turn in the military,
    to butcher the prisoners for the gratification of his malice and
    revenge. It unfortunately happened, that in the afternoon of the
    6th of April, some boys who were playing ball in No. 7 yard,
    knocked their ball over into the barrack yard, and on the sentry
    in that yard refusing to throw it back to them, they picked a hole
    in the wall, to get in after it.

    This afforded Shortland his wished for pretext, and he took his
    measures accordingly. He had all the garrison drawn up in the
    military walk, additional numbers posted on the walls, and every
    thing prepared, before the alarm bell was rung; this he
    naturally concluded would draw the attention of a great number of
    prisoners towards the gates, to learn the cause of the alarm,
    while the turnkeys were dispatched into the yards to lock all the
    doors but one, of each prison, to prevent the prisoners retreating
    out of the way, before he had sufficiently wreaked his vengeance.

    What adds peculiar weight to the belief of its being a
    premeditated, determined massacre, are,

    First--The sanguinary disposition manifested on every occasion
    by Shortland, he having prior to this time, ordered the soldiers
    to fire into the prisons, through the prison windows, upon unarmed
    prisoners asleep in their hammocks, on account of a light being
    seen in the prisons; which barbarous act was repeated several
    nights successively. That murder was not then committed, was owing
    to an overruling Providence alone; for the balls were picked up in
    the prisons, where they passed through the hammocks of men then
    asleep in them. He having also ordered the soldiers to fire upon
    the prisoners in the yard of No. 7 prison, because they would not
    deliver up to him a man who had escaped from his cachot, which
    order the commanding officer of the soldiers refused to obey; and
    generally, he having seized on every slight pretext to injure the
    prisoners, by stopping their marketing for ten days repeatedly,
    and once, a third part of their provisions for the same length of
    time.

    Secondly--He having been heard to say, when the boys had picked
    the hole in the wall, and some time before the alarm bell was
    rung, while all the prisoners were quiet as usual in their
    respective yards--"I'll fix the damn'd rascals directly."

    Thirdly--His having all the soldiers on their posts, and the
    garrison fully prepared before the alarm bell rang. It could not
    then, of course, be rung to assemble the soldiers, but to alarm
    the prisoners, and create confusion among them.

    Fourthly--The soldiers upon the wall, previous to the alarm bell
    being rung, informing the prisoners that they would be charged
    upon directly.

    Fifthly--The turnkeys going into the yard and closing all the
    doors but one, in each prison, while the attention of the
    prisoners was attracted by the alarm bell. This was done about
    fifteen minutes sooner than usual, and without informing the
    prisoners it was time to shut up. It was ever the invariable
    practice of the turnkeys, from which they never deviated before
    that night, when coming into the yard to shut up, to halloo to the
    prisoners, so loud as to be heard throughout the yard, "turn in,
    turn in!" while on that night it was done so secretly, that not
    one man in a hundred knew they were shut; and in particular, their
    shutting the door of No. 7, prisoners usually go in and out at,
    and which was formerly always closed last, and leaving one open in
    the other end of the prison, which was exposed to a cross fire
    from the soldiers on the walls, and which the prisoners had to
    pass in gaining the prisons.

    It appears to us that the foregoing reasons sufficiently warrant
    the conclusion we have drawn therefrom.

    We likewise believe, from the depositions of men who were eye
    witnesses of a part of Shortland's conduct, on the evening of the
    6th of April, that he was intoxicated with liquor at the time;
    from his brutality in beating a prisoner then supporting another
    severely wounded, from the blackguard and abusive language he made
    use of, and from his frequently having been seen in the same
    state. His being drunk was, of course, the means of inflaming his
    bitter enmity against the prisoners, and no doubt was the cause of
    the indiscriminate butchery, and of no quarter being given.

    We here solemnly aver, that there was no pre-concerted plan to
    attempt a breaking out. There cannot be produced the least shadow
    of a reason or inducement for that intention, because the
    prisoners were daily expecting to be released, and to embark on
    board cartels for their native country. And we likewise solemnly
    assert, that there was no intention of resisting, in any manner,
    the authority of this depot.

    N. B. Seven were killed, thirty dangerously wounded, and thirty
    slightly do. Total, sixty-seven killed and wounded.

                                    Wm. B. Orne,      }
                                    James Boggs,      }
                                    J. F. Trowbridge, } SIGNED,
                                    John Rust,        }
                                    Walter Colton,    }

                                    Wm. Hobart,       }
                                    James Adams,      }
                                    Francis Joseph,   } Committee.
                                    Henry Allen,      }
                                    Thomas B. Mott,   }

    No. XVIII.

    Letter from Mr. Beasly, agent for American prisoners of war at
    London, to the Committee of American prisoners of war in Dartmoor
    prison.

                             Agency for American prisoners of war, }
                             London, April 12, 1815.               }

    GENTLEMEN--It having been stated in some of the newspapers
    published here, that the American government intended to send some
    ships of war bound to the Mediterranean, to this country, for the
    purpose of completing their crews from among the prisoners; and
    having been informed that this idea has got among the prisoners,
    it becomes my duty to request, that you will inform them that the
    fact is not so.

    I have already informed you of the measures which had been taken
    to provide conveyances for the prisoners. You will let them know,
    that eight large transports have been engaged, some of which must
    be now at Plymouth; others will follow, until the whole of the
    prisoners are sent off.

    It is much to be lamented, that at a moment when every exertion
    was making to restore them to their country, they should have
    fallen into an excess which has proved fatal to some. And I am at
    a loss to conceive how they could, under such circumstances,
    pretend to say, that the cause of this unfortunate but shameful
    conduct, was the neglect of their government or its agent. This, I
    am informed, they have stated to the officers who were sent to
    examine into the affair. I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,

                                                         R. G. BEASLY.

    The Committee of the American prisoners, Dartmoor.

    No. XIX.

                                             DARTMOOR, April 14, 1815.

    SIR--Yours, of the 12th inst. came to hand this morning. It is
    with astonishment we note its contents, that the officers who came
    to inquire into the circumstances of the late unfortunate affair,
    should have informed you, that the prisoners stated to them the
    cause of that event was that their government or its agent had
    neglected them. This is a most deliberate falsehood, let your
    authors be who they may. We deny not that the anxiety of the
    prisoners to get released from here, has been great; they have
    even censured you as being dilatory in your preparations for that
    purpose--but their government they have never implicated--and you
    may rest assured, that they have too much of the genuine spirit of
    Americans, to apply to the officer of a foreign government for
    relief, or to make them a party in any dispute with the government
    or its agents.

    We solemnly assure you, that whatever anxiety among the prisoners,
    or want of confidence in your exertions, as above stated, may have
    existed among them, that it can in no way be construed to have any
    collusion or connection with the late event, and was expressly so
    stated to the admiral, who came here from Plymouth.

    We, on the contrary, in the name of the five thousand prisoners
    confined here, accuse Shortland of a deliberate, pre-determined
    act of atrocious murder--we have sufficient evidence in our
    possession to prove it to the world, and we call on you (there
    being at present no accredited minister, or charge des affairs at
    the court of London) to make strict inquiries into the
    circumstances of the case, and procure all the evidence necessary
    for a proper investigation into the same; for well do we feel
    assured, that our government will not thus suffer its citizens to
    be sacrificed, for the gratification of national prejudice, malice
    or revenge, of the petty officers of a foreign state.

    We are at no loss to impute the misrepresentation of the British
    officers to their proper motives. They artfully wish to excite in
    your breast a spirit of enmity and resentment against the
    prisoners, that you might use less perseverance, or feel yourself
    less interested in making the proper inquiries into the late
    affair.

    With much respect, we remain, Sir, your most obedient and humble
    servants,

                                                       WILLIAM HOBART,
                                                       WALTER COLTON,
                                                       HENRY ALLEN.

    R. G. Beasly, Esq. Agent for Prisoners, London.

    No. XX.

    Second Letter from Mr. Beasly to the American Committee.

                             Agency for American Prisoners of War, }
                             London, April 14, 1815.               }

    GENTLEMEN--My letter to you of the 12th inst. on the subject of
    the melancholy event, was written under an impression which I
    received from a report of it, transmitted to me by this
    government: I have since received your report of the
    circumstances. Had I been in possession of the information therein
    contained, the letter would have been differently expressed.

    P. S. I subjoin an extract of the report alluded to from the Lords
    Commissioners of the Admiralty:

    "The rioters, it appears, endeavored to OVERPOWER the guard, to
    force the prison, and had actually seized the arms of some of the
    soldiers, and made a breach in the walls of the depot, when the
    guard found itself obliged to have recourse to their fire arms,
    and five of the rioters were killed, and thirty-four wounded,
    after which the tumult subsided, and the depot was placed in a
    state of tranquillity and security.

    "Admiral Sir J. T. Duckworth, Commander in Chief at Plymouth,
    having received information of this unfortunate event, lost no
    time in directing Rear Admiral Sir Josias Rowley, Baronet, K. C.
    B. and Schornberg, the two senior officers at that port, to
    proceed to Dartmoor, and to inquire into the circumstances. Those
    officers accordingly repaired to the depot, where they found, on
    examination of the officers of the depot, and all the American
    prisoners who were called before them, that the circumstances of
    the riot were as before stated; but that no excuse could be
    assigned for the conduct of the prisoners, but their impatience to
    be released; and the Americans unanimously declared, that their
    complaint of delay was not against the British government, but
    against their own, which ought to have sent means for their early
    conveyance home, and in replies to distinct questions to that
    effect they declared they had no ground of complaint whatsoever."

    No. XXI.

                                             DARTMOOR, April 17, 1815.

    To Rear Admiral Sir J. T. Duckworth.

    SIR--The officers whom you sent to this place to inquire into the
    circumstance of the unfortunate occurrence of the 6th inst.
    whatever right they had to represent the conduct of Captain
    Shortland in the most favorable manner, we conceive it an act of
    gross injustice that they should have given to you such a false
    and scandalous representation of what they were told by the
    prisoners.

    In the report from the admiralty board to Mr. Beasly, (a copy of
    which he has transmitted to us) it is stated that the prisoners,
    when called upon to give an account of the circumstances of the
    6th, exonerated Captain Shortland and the English government from
    any blame respecting the same, and accused their own government
    and its agent of being the cause.

    We, on the contrary, solemnly declare, that it was expressly
    stated to Admiral Rowley, that whatever anxiety might have existed
    among the prisoners for a speedy release, could, in no way
    whatever, be construed to have had any collusion or connection
    with that event.--That the prisoners, so far from having any idea
    of attempting to break out, if the gates had been opened, and
    every one suffered to go who might wish to do so, not one in a
    hundred would have left the prison, having no means of subsistence
    in a foreign country, and being likewise liable to IMPRESSMENT,
    when by staying a few days longer, they would, probably, be
    embarked for their native country.

    They, on the contrary, accused Captain Shortland of being the sole
    mover and principal perpetrator of the unprovoked and horrid
    butchery.

    Conceiving, from your well known character in the British navy for
    integrity and candor, that you would not wish to have your name
    the medium of imposing such a gross misrepresentation and such
    direct falsehoods on the admiralty board and the British public,
    we have taken the liberty of thus addressing you, and have the
    honor to subscribe ourselves, your most obedient and very humble
    servants,

                         Wm. Hobart, Walter Colton, Henry Allen,
                         Thomas B. Mott, Wm. B. Orne,

                            Committee of American Prisoners, Dartmoor.

    [In addition to the documents furnished by the committee of the
    Dartmoor prisoners, we lay the following affidavit of Archibald
    Taylor before the public. Will people doubt this evidence also? Is
    it likely that common soldiers, hired assassins, would make use of
    similar expressions from their own impulses? or is it not much
    more conformable to common sense to believe that this was the
    language held by their officers, and that they echoed it.]

                                               City of New York, ss.

    Archibald Taylor, late commander of the Paul Jones, private
    armed vessel of war, being duly sworn, doth depose and say--

    That he was a prisoner in Dartmoor prison at the time of the late
    massacre of Americans; that after the affair of the 6th of April,
    and on the night of the same day, he was in the prison No. 3,
    assisting Thomas Smith, late his boatswain, who was shot through
    his leg by the soldiers in the yard, when an order was received to
    have all the wounded removed from the prisons to the hospital; and
    while this deponent was carrying the said Thomas Smith to the door
    of the prison, to deliver him to the guards selected to receive
    him, some of the soldiers observed to this deponent, "this is in
    turn for the affair at New Orleans, where you killed our men, and
    now we have our revenge"--and further this deponent saith not.

                                                     ARCHIBALD TAYLOR.

    Sworn before me, this 28th June, 1815.

                                     AARON H. PALMER, Notary Public.

           *       *       *       *       *

    KING AND LARPENT'S REPORT.

                                         Plymouth, 18th April, 1815.

    We the undersigned commissioners, appointed on behalf of our
    respective governments, to inquire into and report upon, the
    unfortunate occurrence of the 6th April inst. at Dartmoor Prison;
    having carefully perused the proceedings of the several courts of
    inquiry, instituted immediately after that event, by the orders of
    Admiral Sir John T. Duckworth and Major-General Brown,
    respectively, as well as the depositions taken at the coroner's
    inquest upon the bodies of the prisoners, who lost their lives
    upon that melancholy occasion; upon which inquest the jury found a
    verdict of justifiable homicide; proceeded immediately to the
    examination upon oath in the presence of one or more of the
    magistrates of the vicinity, of all the witnesses, both American
    and English, who offered themselves for that purpose; or who could
    be discovered as likely to afford any material information on the
    subject, as well as those who had been previously examined before
    the coroner, as otherwise, to the number in the whole of about
    eighty. We further proceeded to a minute examination of the
    prisons, for the purpose of clearing up some points which, upon
    the evidence alone, were scarcely intelligible; obtaining from the
    prisoners, and from the officers of the depot, all the necessary
    assistance and explanation; and premising, that we have been from
    necessity compelled to draw many of our conclusions from
    statements and evidence highly contradictory, we do now make upon
    the whole proceedings the following report:--

    During the period which has elapsed since the arrival in this
    country of the account of the ratification of the treaty of Ghent,
    an increased degree of restlessness and impatience of confinement
    appears to have prevailed amongst the American prisoners at
    Dartmoor, which, though not exhibited in the shape of any violent
    excesses, has been principally indicated by threats of breaking
    out if not soon released.

    On the 4th of this month in particular, only two days previous to
    the events which are the subject of this inquiry, a large body of
    the prisoners rushed into the market-square, from whence, by the
    regulations of the prison they are excluded, demanded bread
    instead of biscuit, which had on that day been issued by the
    officers of the depot; their demands having been then almost
    immediately complied with, they returned to their own yards, and
    the employment of force on that occasion became unnecessary.

    On the evening of the 6th, about 6 o'clock, it was clearly proved
    to us, that a breach or hole had been made in one of the prison
    walls, sufficient for a full sized man to pass, and that others
    had been commenced in the course of the day near the same spot,
    though never completed.

    That a number of the prisoners were over the railing erected to
    prevent them from communicating with the sentinels on the walls,
    which was of course forbidden by the regulations of the prison,
    and that in the space between the railing and those walls they
    were tearing up pieces of turf, and wantonly pelting each other in
    a noisy and disorderly manner.

    That a much more considerable number of the prisoners was
    collected together at that time in one of their yards near the
    place where the breach was effected, and that although such
    collection of prisoners was not unusual at other times (the
    Gambling Tables being commonly kept in that part of the yard) yet,
    when connected with the circumstances of the breach, and the time
    of the day, which was after the hour the signal for the prisoners
    to retire to their respective prisons had ceased to sound, it
    became a natural and just ground of alarm to those who had charge
    of the depot.

    It was also in evidence that in the building formerly the petty
    officers' prison, but now the guard barrack, which stands in the
    yard to which the hole in the wall would serve as a communication,
    a part of the arms of the guard who were off duty, were usually
    kept in the racks, and though there was no evidence that this was,
    in any respect, the motive which induced the prisoners to make the
    opening in the wall, or even that they were ever acquainted with
    the fact, it naturally became at least a further cause of
    suspicion and alarm, and an additional reason for precaution.

    Upon these grounds captain Shortland appears to us to have been
    justified in giving the order, which about this time he seems to
    have given, to sound the alarm bell, the usual signal for
    collecting the officers of the depot and putting the military on
    the alert.

    However reasonable and justifiable this was as a measure of
    precaution, the effects produced thereby in the prisons, but which
    could not have been intended, were most unfortunate, and deeply to
    be regretted. A considerable number of the prisoners in the yards
    where no disturbance existed before, and who were either already
    within their respective prisons, or quietly retiring as usual
    towards them, immediately upon the sound of the bell rushed back
    from curiosity (as it appears) towards the gates, where, by that
    time, the crowd had assembled, and many who were at the time
    absent from their yards, were also from the plan of the prison,
    compelled, in order to reach their own homes, to pass the same
    spot, and thus that which was merely a measure of precaution, in
    its operation increased the evil it was intended to prevent.
    Almost at the same instant that the alarm bell rung, (but whether
    before or subsequent is upon the evidence doubtful, though captain
    Shortland states it positively as one of his further reasons for
    causing it to ring) some one or more of the prisoners broke the
    iron chain, which was the only fastening of No. 1 gate, leading
    into market square by means of an iron bar; and a very
    considerable number of the prisoners immediately rushed towards
    that gate; and many of them began to press forwards as fast as the
    opening would permit into the square.

    There was no direct proof before us of previous concert or
    preparation on the part of the prisoners, and no evidence of their
    intention or disposition to effect their escape on this occasion,
    excepting that which arose by inference from the whole of the
    above detailed circumstances connected together.

    The natural and almost irresistible inference to be drawn,
    however, from the conduct of the prisoners by captain Shortland
    and the military was, that an intention on the part of the
    prisoners to escape was on the point of being carried into
    execution, and it was at least certain that they were by force
    passing beyond the limits prescribed to them at a time when they
    ought to have been quietly going in for the night. It was also in
    evidence that the outer gates of the market square were usually
    opened about this time to let the bread waggons pass and repass to
    the store, although at the period in question they were in fact
    closed.

    Under these circumstances, and with these impressions necessarily
    operating upon his mind, and a knowledge that if the prisoners
    once penetrated through the square, the power of escape was almost
    to a certainty afforded to them, if they should be so disposed;
    captain Shortland in the first instance proceeded down the square
    towards the prisoners, having ordered a part of the different
    guards, to the number of about fifty only at first, (though they
    were increased afterwards) to follow him. For some time both he
    and Dr. Magrath endeavored by quiet means and persuasion, to
    induce the prisoners to return to their own yards, explaining to
    them the fatal consequences which must ensue if they refused, as
    the military would in that case be necessarily compelled to employ
    force. The guard was by this time formed in the rear of captain
    Shortland, about two thirds of the way down the square--the latter
    is about one hundred feet broad, and the guard extended nearly all
    across. Captain Shortland, finding that persuasion was all in
    vain, and that although some were induced by it to make an effort
    to retire, others pressed on in considerable numbers, at last
    ordered about 15 file of the guard, nearly in front of the gate
    which had been forced, to charge the prisoners back to their own
    yards.

    The prisoners were in some places so near the military, that one
    of the soldiers states that he could not come fairly down to the
    charge; and the military were unwilling to set against an enemy.
    Some struggling ensued between the parties, arising partly from
    intention, but mainly from the pressure of those behind preventing
    those in front from getting back. After some little time, however,
    this charge appears to have been so far effective, and that with
    little or no injury to the prisoners, as to have driven them for
    the most part quite down out of the square, with the exception of
    a small number who continued their resistance about No. 1 gate.

    A great crowd still remained collected after this in the passage
    between the square and the prisoners' yards, and in the part of
    those yards in the vicinity of the gates.--This assemblage still
    refused to withdraw, and according to most of the English
    witnesses and some of the American, was making a noise, hallowing,
    insulting and provoking, and daring the military to fire, and
    according to the testimony of several of the soldiers, and some
    others, were pelting the military with large stones, by which some
    of them were actually struck. This circumstance is, however,
    denied by many of the American witnesses; and some of the English,
    upon having the question put to them, stated that they saw no
    stones thrown previously to the firing, although their situation
    at the time was such as to enable them to see most of the
    proceedings in the square.

    Under these circumstances the firing commenced.--With regard to
    any order having been given to fire the evidence is very
    contradictory. Several of the Americans swear positively, that
    captain Shortland gave that order; but the manner in which from
    the confusion of the moment, they described this part of the
    transaction, is so different in its details that it is very
    difficult to reconcile their testimony. Many of the soldiers and
    other English witnesses, heard the word given by some one, but no
    one of them can swear it was by captain Shortland, or by any one
    in particular, and some, amongst whom is the officer commanding
    the guard, think, if captain Shortland had given such an order
    that they must have heard it, which they did not. In addition to
    this captain Shortland denies the fact; and from the situation
    which he appears to have been placed at the time, even according
    to the American witnesses, in front of the soldiers, it may appear
    somewhat improbable that he should then have given such an order.

    But, however, it may remain a matter of doubt whether the firing
    first began in the square by order, or was a spontaneous act of
    the soldiers themselves, it seemed clear that it was continued and
    renewed both there and elsewhere without orders; and that on the
    platforms, and in several places about the prison, it was
    certainly commenced without any authority.

    The fact of an order having been given at first, provided the
    firing was under the existing circumstances justifiable, does not
    appear very material in any other point of view, than as shewing a
    want of self possession and discipline in the troops if they
    should have fired without order.

    With regard to the above most important consideration, of whether
    the firing was justifiable or not, we are of opinion, under all
    the circumstances of the case, from the apprehension which the
    soldiers might fairly entertain, owing to the numbers and conduct
    of the prisoners, that this firing to a certain extent was
    justifiable in a military point of view, in order to intimidate
    the prisoners, and compel them thereby to desist from all acts of
    violence, and to retire as they were ordered, from a situation in
    which the responsibility of the agents, and the military, could
    not permit them with safety to remain.

    From the fact of the crowd being so close and the firing at first
    being attended with very little injury, it appears probable that a
    large proportion of the muskets were, as stated by one or two of
    the witnesses, levelled over the heads of the prisoners; a
    circumstance in some respects to be lamented, as it induced them
    to cry out "blank cartridges," and merely irritated and encouraged
    them to renew their insults to the soldiery, which produced a
    repetition of the firing in a manner much more destructive.

    The firing in the square having continued for some time, by which
    several of the prisoners sustained injuries, the greater part of
    them appear to have been running back with the utmost
    precipitation and confusion to their respective prisons, and the
    cause for further firing seems at this period to have ceased. It
    appears, accordingly, that captain Shortland was in the market
    square exerting himself and giving orders to that effect, and that
    lieutenant Fortye had succeeded in stopping the fire of his part
    of the guard.

    Under these circumstances, it is very difficult to find any
    justification for the further continuance and renewal of the
    firing, which certainly took place both in the prison yards and
    elsewhere; though we have some evidence of subsequent provocation
    given to the military, and resistance to the turnkeys in shutting
    the prisons, and of stones being thrown out from within the prison
    doors.

    The subsequent firing rather appears to have arisen from the state
    of individual irritation and exasperation on the part of the
    soldiers, who followed the prisoners into their yards, and from
    the absence of nearly all of the officers who might have
    restrained it as well as from the great difficulty of putting an
    end to a firing when once commenced under such circumstances.
    Captain Shortland was from this time busily occupied with the
    turnkeys in the square, receiving and taking care of the wounded.
    Ensign White remained with his guard at the breach, and
    lieutenants Ayelyne and Fortye, the only other subalterns known to
    have been present, continued with the main bodies of their
    respective guards.

    The time of the day, which was the officers' dinner hour, will in
    some measure explain this, as it caused the absence of every
    officer from the prison whose presence was not indispensable
    there. And this circumstance which has been urged as an argument
    to prove the intention of the prisoners to take this opportunity
    to escape, tended to increase the confusion, and to prevent those
    great exertions being made which might perhaps have obviated a
    portion at least of the mischief which ensued.

    At the same time that the firing was going on in the square, a
    cross fire was also kept up from several of the platforms on the
    walls round the prisoners where the sentries stand, by straggling
    parties of soldiers who ran up there for that purpose. As far as
    this fire was directed to disperse the men assembled round the
    breach, for which purpose it was most effectual, it seems to stand
    upon the same ground as that in the first instance in the
    square.--That part which it is positively sworn was directed
    against straggling parties of prisoners running about the yards
    and endeavoring to enter in the few doors which the turnkeys,
    according to their usual practice, had left open, does seem, as
    stated, to have been wholly without object or excuse, and to have
    been a wanton attack upon the lives of defenceless, and at that
    time, unoffending individuals.

    In the same, or even more severe terms, we must remark upon what
    was proved as to the firing in the door-ways of the prisons, more
    particularly into that of No. 3 prison, at a time when the men
    were in crowds at the entrance. From the position of the prison
    and the door, and from the marks of the balls which were pointed
    out to us, as well as from the evidence, it was clear this firing
    must have proceeded from soldiers a very few feet from the door
    way; and although it was certainly sworn that the prisoners were
    at the time of part of the firing at least, continuing to insult
    and occasionally to throw stones at the soldiers, and that they
    were standing in the way of, and impeding the turnkey, who was
    there for the purpose of closing the door, yet still there was
    nothing stated which could, in our view, at all justify such
    excessively harsh and severe treatment of helpless and unarmed
    prisoners, when all idea of escape was at an end.

    Under these impressions, we used every endeavor to ascertain if
    there was the least prospect of identifying any of the soldiers
    who had been guilty of the particular outrages here alluded to, or
    of tracing any particular death, at that time to the firing of any
    particular individual, but without success; and all hopes of
    bringing the offenders to punishment would seem to be at an end.

    In conclusion, we, the undersigned, have only to add, that whilst
    we lament, as we do most deeply, the unfortunate transaction which
    has been the subject of this inquiry, we find ourselves unable to
    suggest any steps to be taken as to those parts of it which seem
    to call for redress and punishment.

    (Signed)

                                              CHARLES KING,
                                              FRANCIS SEYMOUR LARPENT.

                                           Plymouth, April 26, 1815.

    SIR--In pursuance of the instructions received from Messrs. Clay
    and Gallatin, I have now the honor to transmit to you the report
    prepared by Mr. Larpent and myself on behalf of our respective
    governments, in relation to the unfortunate transactions at
    Dartmoor Prison of War, on the 6th of the present month.
    Considering it of much importance that the report, whatever it
    might be, should go forth under our joint signatures, I have
    forborne to press some of the points which it involves, as far as
    otherwise I might have done, and it therefore may not be improper
    in this letter to enter into some little explanation of such parts
    of the report.

    Although it does appear that a part of the prisoners were on that
    evening in such a state, and under such circumstances as to have
    justified in the view which the commander of the depot could not
    but take of it, the intervention of the military force, and even
    in a strict sense, the first use of fire arms, yet I cannot but
    express it as my settled opinion, that by conduct a little more
    temporising this dreadful alternative of firing upon unarmed
    prisoners might have been avoided. Yet as this opinion has been
    the result of subsequent examination, and after having acquired a
    knowledge of the comparatively harmless state of the prisoners, it
    may be but fair to consider, whether in such a moment of confusion
    and alarm, as that appears to have been, the officer commanding
    could have fairly estimated his danger, or have measured out with
    precision the extent and nature of the force necessary to guard
    against it.

    But when the firing became general, as it afterwards appears to
    have been, and caught with electric rapidity from the square to
    the platforms, there is no plea nor shadow of excuse for it,
    except in the personal exasperation of the soldiery, nor for the
    more deliberate, and therefore more unjustifiable firing which
    took place into three of the prisons, No. 1, 3 and 4, but more
    particularly into No. 3, after the prisoners had retired into
    them, and there was no longer any pretence of apprehensions, as to
    their escape.--Upon this ground, as you, sir, will perceive by the
    report, Mr. Larpent and myself had no difference of opinion, and I
    am fully persuaded that my own regret was not greater than his at
    perceiving how hopeless would be the attempt to trace to any
    individuals of the military these outrageous proceedings.

    As to whether the order to fire came from captain Shortland, I yet
    confess myself unable to form any satisfactory opinion, though
    perhaps the bias of my mind is, that he did give such an order.
    But his anxiety and exertions to stop it after it had continued
    for some little time, are fully proved, and his general conduct
    previous to this occurrence, as far as we could with propriety
    enter into such details, appears to have been characterized with
    great fairness, and even kindness, in the relation in which he
    stood towards the prisoners.

    On the subject of any complaints against their own government
    existing among the prisoners, it was invariably answered to
    several distinct questions put by me on that head, that none
    whatsoever existed or had been expressed by them, although they
    confessed themselves to entertain some animosity against Mr.
    Beasly, to whom they attributed their detention in this country;
    with what justice, you, sir, will be better able to judge. They
    made no complaint whatsoever as to their provisions and general
    mode of living, and treatment in the prison.

    I have transmitted to Mr. Beasly, a list of the killed and wounded
    on this melancholy occasion, with a request that he would forward
    it to the United States, for the information of their friends at
    home, and I am pleased to have it in my power to say, that the
    wounded are for the most part doing well.

    I have also enclosed to Mr. Beasly, the notes taken by me of the
    evidence adduced before us, with a request that he would have them
    fairly copied, as also a copy of the depositions taken before the
    Coroner, and desired him to submit them to you when in order.

    I cannot conclude, sir, without expressing my high sense of the
    impartiality and manly fairness with which this enquiry has been
    conducted on the part of Mr. Larpent, nor without mentioning that
    every facility was afforded to us in its prosecution, as well by
    the military officers commanding here and at the prison, as by the
    magistrates in the vicinity.

    I have the honor to be, with much respect, your most obedient
    humble servant.

    (Signed)

                                                         CHARLES KING.

    His Excellency John Q. Adams, &c. &c.

    DARTMOOR PRISON.

    A Return of American prisoners of war killed and wounded in an
    attempt to force the military guard on the evening of the 6th of
    April, 1815.

  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------
         |       |           |        |              |Whether   |
         |Number |           |        |              |man of    |
         |on     |           |        |              |war,      |
         |general|           |        |              |merchant  |
  Current|entry  |           |        |              |vessel, or|
  No.    |book.  |Names.     |Quality.|Ship.         |privateer.|Remarks.
  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------
                                  KILLED.
  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------
       1 |  4884 |Wm.        |Seaman, |Enterprize,   |Privateer,|
         |       |Leveridge, |        |prize to      |          |
         |       |           |        |Saratoga.     |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       2 |   970 |James Mann,|do.     |Siro.         |Lett.     |
         |       |           |        |              |Marque,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       3 |  3134 |John       |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Haywood,   |        |up from H. M. |          |
         |       |           |        |Ship Scipion.|          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       4 |  1347 |Jo. T.     |do.     |Paul Jones,   |Privateer,|
         |       |Johnson,   |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       5 |  3936 |John       |do.     |Rolla,        |Merch.    |
         |       |Washington,|        |              |vessel,   |
  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------
                                  WOUNDED.
  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------
       1 |  6520 |Tho.       |Boy,    |Gave himself |          |Imp. died
         |       |Jackson,   |        |up from H. M. |          |Ap. 7,
         |       |           |        |Ship Pontes. |          |1815
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       2 |  2647 |James      |Seaman, |Gave himself |          |Imp. died
         |       |Campbell,  |        |up from H. M. |          |Ap. 7,
         |       |           |        |Ship          |          |1815
         |       |           |        |Volontaire.  |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       3 |  5769 |John Gier, |do.     |Rambler,      |Merch.    |
         |       |           |        |              |vessel,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       4 |  1722 |William    |do.     |Dispatch,     |do.       |Impres'd,
         |       |Penn,      |        |              |          |at London
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       5 |  5003 |Cornel.    |do.     |Invincible,   |Lett.     |
         |       |Garrison,  |        |              |Marque    |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       6 |  3614 |H.         |do.     |Homeby.       |Privateer,|
         |       |Hontcalm,  |        |              |p. G. Tom.|
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       7 |  1965 |Robert     |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Willett,   |        |up from H. M. |          |
         |       |           |        |Ship          |          |
         |       |           |        |Andromache.  |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       8 |  5326 |John Peach,|do.     |Enterprize,   |Privateer,|
         |       |           |        |              |          |
       9 |  2148 |Edw.       |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Wittlebark,|        |up from H. M. |          |
         |       |           |        |Ship Ro.      |          |
         |       |           |        |William.     |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      10 |  1881 |James      |Boy,    |Elbridge      |Privateer,|
         |       |Thornbull, |        |Gerry,        |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      11 |  3652 |James      |Seaman, |Thorn,        |do.       |
         |       |Wells,     |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      12 |  1236 |Philip     |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Ford,      |        |up from       |          |
         |       |           |        |H. M. S.      |          |
         |       |           |        |Sult.        |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      13 |   685 |James Bell,|do.     |Joel Barlow,  |Merch.    |
         |       |           |        |              |vessel,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      14 |    94 |John Grey, |do.     |St. Martin's  |do.       |
         |       |           |        |Planter,      |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      15 |   436 |Wm.        |do.     |Magdalene,    |do.       |
         |       |Leversage, |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      16 |  1024 |Edw.       |do.     |Joseph,       |do.       |
         |       |Gardner,   |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      17 |  1546 |Stephen    |do.     |Zebra,        |Lett.     |
         |       |Phipps,    |        |              |Marque,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      18 |   486 |John       |do.     |Two Brothers, |          |Impres'd,
         |       |Roberts,   |        |              |          |at Cork.
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      19 |  1640 |Thomas     |do.     |Paul Jones,   |Privateer,|
         |       |Smith,     |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      20 |  1819 |Caleb      |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Codding,   |        |up from H. M. |          |
         |       |           |        |Ship          |          |
         |       |           |        |Swiftsure.   |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      21 |  5015 |John Davis,|do.     |Charlotte,    |Privateer,|
         |       |           |        |p. to Mammoth,|          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      22 |  2013 |James      |do.     |G. Tomkins,   |do.       |
         |       |Esdaille,  |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      23 |   380 |Peter      |do.     |Virginia      |Merch.    |
         |       |Wilson,    |        |Planter,      |vessel,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      24 |  2834 |Wm. Blake, |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |           |        |up from       |          |
         |       |           |        |H. M. S.      |          |
         |       |           |        |Repu.        |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      25 |   338 |John       |2d Mate,|Good Friends, |Merch.    |
         |       |Hogabets,  |        |              |vessel,   |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      26 |  4153 |Eph.       |Seaman, |Argus,        |do.       |
         |       |Lincoln,   |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      27 |  4493 |Thomas     |do.     |Enterprize,   |Privateer,|
         |       |Findlay,   |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      28 |  4109 |John       |do.     |Flash,        |do.       |
         |       |Howard,    |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      29 |  1228 |Joseph     |do.     |Gave himself |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Masick,    |        |up from H. M. |          |
         |       |           |        |Ship Furieux.|          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      30 |  6123 |Robert     |do.     |Grand Turk,   |Privateer,|
         |       |Fillez,    |        |              |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      31 |  1812 |John       |do.     |Ga. himself  |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Willet,    |        |up from       |          |
         |       |           |        |H. M. S.      |          |
         |       |           |        |Rosario.     |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      32 |  3080 |John Perry,|do.     |Do fr H. M.  |          |Impres'd.
         |       |           |        |S. Tiger.    |          |
         |       |           |        |              |          |
      33 |  2662 |John       |do.     |Do fr H. M.  |          |Impres'd.
         |       |Wilson,    |        |S. Fortuna.  |          |
  -------+-------+-----------+--------+--------------+----------+---------

    (Signed)

                                     THOMAS GEORGE SHORTLAND, Agent.

    (Signed)

                                     GEORGE MAGRATH, Surgeon.

    Reply to KING and LARPENT'S Report.

    To the People of the United States.

    Having perused, with attention, the report of Mr. CHARLES KING,
    and FRANCIS SEYMOUR LARPENT, on their examination of the
    unfortunate occurrence at Dartmoor, on the 6th of April last:

    We, the undersigned, being there at the time this unfortunate
    occurrence took place, deem it a duty we owe to the surviving
    sufferers of that bloody transaction, to our fellow citizens, and
    ourselves, to make some remarks upon such a singular report.
    Although we presume the door is forever closed against any further
    investigation of that ever to be remembered transaction, we cannot
    help, however contrary it may be to our wishes to irritate the
    public feeling, already so much excited, entering into a detailed
    investigation of that report.

    In the committee's address to the public on the 27th of June last,
    preceding the publication of the affidavits of some of the
    prisoners, taken on that melancholy affair, they have justly
    anticipated what would be the report of the commissioners, after
    their investigation; they drew their conclusions from the singular
    manner in which the investigation was conducted. The report
    commences by stating, that, after carefully perusing the
    proceedings of the several courts of inquiry, instituted
    immediately after that event, they proceeded immediately to the
    examination, upon oath, of ALL the witnesses, both American and
    English, who offered themselves for that purpose.--How far this
    part of the report is correct, we shall leave the public to judge.

    On the arrival of the commissioners at the depot, the committee of
    the prison were sent for; after waiting some time at the door of
    the room, where the inquiry was held, they were called in
    separately and questioned as to their knowledge of the
    transactions of the sixth.--The depositions of those who were eye
    witnesses of that disgraceful scene were taken; some were
    questioned as to the general conduct of Shortland, previous to
    that affair; it was represented by them as it would have been by
    all, as being universally cruel, overbearing and oppressive.
    After having finished the examination of the committee, they
    requested them to bring forward all the evidence that was likely
    to cast any light on the subject of inquiry. They accordingly
    returned into the prison, and drew up a list of the names of some
    of the eye-witnesses of that day's occurrence. Although they could
    have brought hundreds to the examination, and the sum of whose
    evidence would have amounted to the same, yet the committee not
    wishing to impede the progress of the investigation, by a
    redundancy of evidence, they were careful to select such men as
    were most likely to give a clear and distinct account of all the
    circumstances as they occurred under their knowledge, taking care,
    at the same time, to procure those whose different situations
    afforded them an opportunity of witnessing that transaction, from
    the commencement to the close. Such was the evidence the committee
    had selected, to the number of about fifty, VERY FEW of whom were
    ever examined, although they were kept waiting in the turnkey's
    lodge (where they were ordered to stay until called for) during
    the hours of investigation. In the course of the inquiry, it
    seems, the commissioners found it necessary to survey the
    particular situation of the prisons, and the points from which the
    different attacks were made; they accordingly came into the yard
    for that purpose, and after having been shown all the places from
    whence the firing was continued, where the crowd of prisoners had
    assembled on the first alarm, and where the hole, so much made a
    handle of, had been made--after a slight survey of these different
    places, they retired into their session room, leaving orders, once
    more, with the committee to hold their evidence in readiness, as
    they would soon be called upon for examination. The committee
    replied that they had been in readiness since the commencement of
    the inquiry, and were then only waiting their orders to appear
    before them, feeling happy in the idea of having it in their power
    to show to the court, and to the world, by the evidence they had
    to produce, that the attack of Shortland on the defenceless
    prisoners, was premeditated and unjustifiable in ANY point of
    view.

    After attending in the turnkey's lodge during the sitting of the
    commissioners, until the middle of the third day, without having
    but very few of the evidences sent for, and being fearful that
    they might be waiting for them, the committee sent them word that
    the witnesses were still in attendance. No answer being returned
    to this message for some time, the committee became uneasy on
    account of the long examination of the officers, soldiers, clerks,
    and turnkeys, attached to the depot, without admitting the
    prisoners to an equal privilege; and understanding the
    commissioners were about closing their inquiry, they again sent
    word they would be glad to have an interview for a few moments,
    for the purpose of explaining the nature of their evidence, and
    the necessity of a full hearing on both sides of the question. NO
    ANSWER BEING RETURNED TO THIS REQUEST, and still waiting with the
    anxious hope that they would soon send for some of us, when we
    were told by one of the turnkeys, that the commissioners were
    prepared to depart, having finished the examination. Astonished to
    think they meant to leave the depot without clearly investigating
    the circumstances that were the cause of their meeting, and
    feeling indignant that a cause of so much importance should be
    passed over so partially, the committee addressed a note to Mr.
    King, begging him not to shut the door of communication against
    the prisoners, by closing the inquiry without giving them the
    privilege of a hearing, as the greatest part of our witnesses were
    yet unexamined, and their evidence they conceived to be of the
    utmost importance to the investigation. No reply was made to this
    note; but, in a few moments, we were told, that the commissioners
    had left the depot. How far they are justifiable in saying they
    examined ALL the evidences that offered themselves, we think is
    sufficiently shewn.

    The commissioners next go on to mention the insurrection of the
    prisoners about the bread, on the 4th, two days previous to the
    events, the subject of that inquiry. Although the report correctly
    states, the prisoners quietly returned to their own yards, after
    their demands having been complied with, Mr. King forgot to
    mention, that it was clearly represented to him, had the
    prisoners been so disposed, on that night, they could have easily
    made their escape. Although that transaction had nothing to do, as
    relates to the prisoners, with the events of the 6th, we merely
    represent this circumstance to show, that there was no intention
    whatever on their part to break out of the prison, as Shortland
    and his adherents have attempted to prove.

    As to the hole made in the wall, we believe the causes and reasons
    have been already sufficiently explained by the affidavits laid
    before the public. With respect to the prisoners being between the
    iron paling and the wall, it could have been, if it was not,
    easily explained to Mr. King, had he given an opportunity. It
    seems, that on the afternoon of the 6th, some of the prisoners
    having obtained leave of the sentinels on the walls to go over
    and lay upon the grass, others seeing them laying so much at their
    ease, went over to enjoy the same privilege; and as the sentinels
    made no objection to this proceeding, the number was soon
    increased to such a degree, that it became no longer an enjoyment
    to those who first obtained the privilege; some scuffling then
    ensued among themselves, and they began to pelt each other with
    turf and old shoes, principally in play, and among so many, no
    doubt, there must have been considerable noise; but how they can
    possibly connect this circumstance with the hole made in the wall,
    is entirely out of our power to conceive, as the iron railings
    separated them from the pretended breach in the wall, and distant
    from it more than half the length of the yard; of course, had the
    hole been intended as a breach, the iron paling would have become
    a barrier, instead of facilitating the means of an escape.

    As to that part of the report which mentions the guard-barracks
    being the repository for the arms of the guard off duty, and of
    its standing in the yard to which the hole in the wall would serve
    as a communication, and of its being a further cause of suspicion
    and alarm to Captain Shortland--to one acquainted with the
    situation of the prison, such an idea would be ridiculous; but to
    those who are not acquainted with it, it will be only necessary
    for us to mention, that if the prisoners had the intention of
    breaking out through this passage, and had actually got into the
    barrack-yard, the difficulties they would then have to encounter
    would be much greater than to break a passage through the market
    square, or the back part of the yard. As to the idea of their
    possessing themselves of the muskets standing in the racks in the
    guard-barracks (even if they knew of any being there) it is
    childish; for how easy would it have been for the commanding
    officer, on the shortest intimation of such an attempt, with one
    blast of his bugle, to have called all his guards to the spot
    before a hundredth part of the prisoners could have got into the
    yard, and by that means instantly put a stop to any further
    proceedings on their part.

    We cannot conceive how Mr. King can possibly come forward and say,
    on these grounds, it appeared to him that Captain Shortland was
    justified in giving the order for sounding the alarm bell, when,
    if he found the prisoners were conducting themselves improperly,
    had he sent for the committee (as always had been his custom
    heretofore, when he had any charge against the prisoners for
    improper conduct) and told them that the prisoners were breaking
    the wall (which circumstance, as has been published before, was
    not known to one tenth of the prisoners) and requested them to
    have represented to those engaged in it, the consequences that
    must ensue if they persisted in such conduct, we have not a
    moment's hesitation in saying, they would have put a stop to any
    further proceedings of that kind.

    That part which relates to the breaking of the iron chain which
    fastened No. 1 gate, and which follows next in the report, says
    there was no evidence to show whether it was done before or after
    the alarm bell rang. As this was a material point on which they
    grounded Shortland's justification, we have to regret that the
    evidence we had to lay before the commissioners, and which would,
    in our opinion, have sufficiently cleared up that point, was not
    examined.

    On the ringing of the alarm bell, the rush towards the gates
    leading into the market square was so great (attracted as has been
    before stated by curiosity) that those in front were irresistibly
    pushed forward by those in the rear, and if the chain had not
    broke, the lock must have given way to the pressure, and by this
    opening, it is but natural to suppose, that a number must have
    been shoved into the square, in front of the soldiers, who were
    drawn up in a line across the square, with Shortland at their
    head.

    Where the commissioners got their evidence for asserting that
    Captain Shortland, by quiet means and persuasion, endeavored to
    persuade the prisoners to retire into their respective yards, is
    unaccountable to us, as those who know Captain Shortland, know he
    is not a man of persuasion. It is correct that Dr. M'Grath used
    every exertion to persuade the prisoners to retire out of the
    square, which if Shortland had allowed sufficient time, would have
    been quietly done; but the crowd, by this time, had become so
    great, and the pressure from the rear so strong, that those in
    front could not retreat until time should be allowed for those in
    the rear to fall back, but the hasty, haughty, and overbearing
    temper of Shortland, could not allow him to use such conciliatory
    means. Under these circumstances,
    continued the report, the firing commenced.

    Here we beg leave to request an attentive perusal of the
    affidavits of some of the prisoners, taken by the committee, and
    which relate particularly to this part of the transaction. It is
    there positively stated, that on the soldiers coming to the
    charge, the prisoners ALL retreated into the yard, and pushed the
    gate to after them. If the commissioners had examined the
    evidence, this part of the report ought to have been differently
    expressed. Thus, then, stands the
    foundation for this part of the report. We must once more request the
    attention of the public to the affidavits already published; it is
    there sworn by one of the witnesses, that PREVIOUS to the alarm
    bell being rung, and while walking in the yard, a soldier called
    to him from the walls, and told him to go in, as they would
    soon be fired upon. How, then, can it be possible, that a soldier
    on the walls should know that they would soon be fired upon, if
    the order had not been previously given to that effect? And had
    the bugle-man been examined, he could have stated that, previous
    to the ringing of the alarm bell, he received orders to sound to
    fire; so that when the soldiers took their stations on the walls,
    they were charged and prepared for that purpose. With such
    information, we conceive the committee to stand fully justified in
    stating in their report, the belief of its being a pre-concerted
    plan, on the part of Shortland; and if the commissioners had
    possessed themselves with a knowledge of these circumstances,
    which they could and ought to have done, would they, then,
    reported Shortland as justifiable, even in a military point of
    view? Is it, then, to be lamented, that
    the soldiers did not level their pieces, on the first fire,
    directly into the crowd, which they have stated to be so great and
    so close that a soldier declared he could not come fairly down to
    a charge? or is it to be lamented, that one or two hundred were
    not killed at the first discharge, and a thousand or two wounded?
    If so, we think it much to be lamented, that the reporters were
    not there, and placed foremost in the crowd.

    The circumstance of so few being hurt at the first discharge is
    not strange to those who are acquainted with the situation; and
    this occurrence alone corroborates the American evidence, and
    ought to have been sufficient proof to the commissioners, that the
    prisoners upon being charged upon, retreated through the gates,
    and shut them after them, before the firing commenced; and which
    circumstance, alone, should have shut the door of justification
    against Shortland for commencing a fire upon them, as they were in
    their own yards. As this was the actual situation of the prisoners
    on the first discharge, and the soldiers having to fire through
    the iron paling, and the prisoners retreating on a descending
    ground, of course brought the muskets, when down to a level, over
    the heads of the prisoners--it was owing to this fortunate
    circumstance that so few were injured on the first discharge of
    the musketry; and it seems the inhuman Shortland was aware of this
    circumstance, when he was distinctly heard to order his soldiers
    to fire low. This does not appear to correspond with that part of
    their report which says, "Captain Shortland was in the market
    square, exerting himself in giving orders to stop the firing."

    That there was any provocation given to the soldiers to justify
    their subsequent brutal conduct, the commissioners themselves seem
    to find it very difficult to trace any evidence, although they
    say, it appears, that there was some resistance made to the
    turnkeys in shutting the prison, and that stones were thrown at
    the military. Had they examined the prisoners sufficiently, they
    would have been convinced that no resistance was made to the
    turnkeys in shutting the doors. As to throwing stones at the
    military, while they were chasing them from corner to corner, and
    firing at them in every place where they had taken shelter from
    the balls, could it be expected but they would seize on something
    for self defence, when they saw the soldiers running at them with
    their bayonets, and having no possible means of escape, as it has
    been before stated, all the doors in the prisons had been
    previously closed except one, and that one perhaps, the length of
    the prison from him. Is there a man, in such a situation, but
    would seize on the first weapon that offered itself, and sell his
    life as dear as possible. How can they, then, make that the
    slightest justification for such outrageous conduct on the part of
    Shortland or the military?

    As to most of the officers being absent is erroneous; it could
    have been proved that there was an officer in every yard, and in
    one instance where he was heard to give the order to fire on a
    party of prisoners close by the door, and running and making every
    exertion to enter the prison.

    As to Captain Shortland being busy in the square with the
    turnkeys, receiving and taking care of the wounded, certainly
    shows the commissioners' want of correct information, for it is
    already before the public, in affidavit, the cruel manner in which
    the wounded were treated by him, and of his abuse to the prisoners
    who were bearing the wounded to the hospital gate. That part of
    the report which relates that the time and commencement of this
    transaction was the officers' dinner hour, is too ridiculous for a
    comment. We do not believe that there was a prisoner in the depot
    that knew when or where the officers dined, and therefore, can be
    no ground for an argument, that the prisoners were taking this
    opportunity to escape. In answer to this paragraph, we shall
    only reply, that had the commissioners examined ALL the American
    evidence, and attached the same credit to it, which it appears
    they have done to ALL the English evidence, similar expressions
    would have been made use of against Shortland's conduct throughout
    the whole of their report.

    It appears to us, after an attentive examination of this report,
    that the commissioners meant to justify Shortland in commencing
    his murderous attack upon the prisoners, and to condemn the
    soldiers for continuing it. Singular as this idea appears, it is
    no less strange to us, how it can be possible they could reconcile
    it to their feelings to make up a report containing such a direct
    contradiction to reason; for surely if Shortland could be
    justified in using coercive measures in the first instance, the
    military certainly should be acquitted for the subsequent
    massacre, as the whole was conducted under his immediate
    command;--and if he had A RIGHT to kill one, on the same ground he
    might have extended it to a thousand. And, on the other hand, if
    any part of the transaction is to be condemned, Shortland should
    answer for the whole; for what necessity could there be made to
    attempt identifying any of the soldiers? Surely the commissioners
    could not think of bringing them to punishment, as they acted by
    the direct orders of Shortland and his officers!--and if any one
    could or ought to be made to answer for the outrage, it should be
    Shortland.

    In addition to the contradictions contained in the commissioners'
    joint report, Mr. King, in his letter to his excellency J. Q.
    Adams, almost denies the ground on which they have, in part,
    founded Shortland's justification, when he says (alluding to have
    heard several Americans swear, positively, that Shortland did
    give the order to fire, and an officer of the guard thinking
    that he did not, as he should have heard him) "perhaps the bias of
    my mind was, that Shortland did give that order; and wishing the
    report to go forth under our joint signatures, I forbore to press
    some of the points so far as otherwise I MIGHT have done."

    If, then, any part has been neglected, or passed over for
    accommodation, or any other purpose (and one there certainly has,
    in not paying the same attention to the American as was done to
    the English evidence) it is to be regretted that Mr. King should
    so far forget the sacred duties attached to the appointment of a
    commissioner to enquire into the murder of his countrymen, as to
    pass over any points which might have brought to light the means
    of punishment for the murder, or obtained in some measure an
    indemnity for the surviving unhappy sufferers.

    Will not the shades of the departed victims haunt him in his
    midnight slumbers, and, pointing to their lacerated bodies, say,
    these still remain unavenged? Will not the unhappy survivors show
    the stumps of their amputated limbs, and say, these wounds fester,
    and still remain unatoned? Will not the widow and the helpless
    orphan raise their innocent hands to heaven, and cry, why was
    justice denied us? Why was the heart so callous to our sufferings?
    And why was the bosom shut to sympathy? Let Mr. King point out
    some means to appease these bitter complaints, and we shall be
    satisfied.

    W. Colton, Joseph Swain, Arch'd Taylor, David Ingalls,
    Reuben Sherman, Arch'd I. Mackay, Philip Black, Homer
    Hall, James B. Mansfield, Abr'm M'Intire, Wm. Cochran,
    Henry Dolliver, John Jones, B. Weeks, Wm. Demerell,
    Thomas Ward, William K. White.

    REMARKS.

    In presenting to the world the record of a transaction, probably
    the most barbarous which the history of modern warfare can
    furnish, we cannot refrain from remarks.--Whatever our feelings
    may be, upon a subject so amply calculated to excite the
    indignation and abhorrence of every friend to humanity, and every
    one who has respect for the laws of civilized and mitigated
    warfare, we will, nevertheless, refrain, so far as the
    circumstances of outraged humanity will permit, from the violence
    of invective, and wholly from unwarranted crimination. Those, into
    whose hands these documents may fall, will, however, preserve them
    as a monument erected to the memory of their slaughtered
    countrymen, and a memento of the unfeeling cruelty of our late
    enemy.

    Though we are far from believing that there are not persons of
    noble and humane minds in the English nation, yet, a uniformity of
    conduct, on the part of the Government and its agents, has taught
    us to believe that they, at least, are blood thirsty and cruel.

    The incarceration of Americans in the Jersey Prison Ship at
    New-York, and Mill Prison, in England, in the Revolutionary war,
    raised in the minds of the sainted heroes of those times, the most
    exalted feelings of indignation and abhorrence. The history of
    those prisoners, where hundreds were compelled to wear out an
    existence, rendered miserable by the cruelty of an enemy,
    professing a reverence for the sublime principles of Christianity,
    is already familiarized to the minds of the American people. If
    the feelings of Americans were then indignant, what should they
    be, on beholding those cruelties renewed with more than ten fold
    severity? The conduct of Thomas George Shortland, the agent at
    Dartmoor Prison, is such as should "damn him to everlasting fame."

    Upon what principles the conduct of this man, precedent to the
    ever memorable 6th of April, 1815, can be justified, we cannot
    determine. The indiscriminate confinement of both officers and men
    in the same prisons, and those the most unfit, decayed, and
    loathsome of any which the Government could furnish, was an
    infraction of the established laws of civilized nations for the
    treatment of prisoners of war. It was equally abhorrent to the
    principles of humanity, and only sanctioned by British
    governmental agents, and those petty Nations of Savages, whose
    known usages of warfare have hitherto kept them beyond the pale of
    national law. The history of modern European wars can furnish no
    parallel to this part of the history of Dartmoor. But when we
    arrive at the slaughter of prisoners on the 6th of April, the
    climax of barbarity is complete, and the mind is sated with the
    contemplation of principles as shocking to humanity as the
    consequences are degrading to the character of the English nation.

    An eminent writer upon national law, has formerly extolled the
    "English and French for their treatment given to prisoners of
    war," and at the same time mentions the case of Charles I. King of
    Naples, who, having defeated and taken prisoner Conrade, his
    competitor, caused him, together with his fellow-prisoner,
    Frederick of Austria, to be beheaded at Naples. Upon this case our
    author has the following pertinent remarks:--"This barbarity
    raised an universal horror, and Peter the third, King of Arragon,
    reproached Charles with it, as a detestable crime, till then
    unheard of among Christian princes. However, the case was of a
    dangerous rival contending with him for the throne. But, supposing
    the claims of his rival were unjust, Charles might have kept him
    in prison until he had renounced them, and given security for his
    future behavior." If this act of Charles raised an "universal
    horror," what should be the excitement produced by the cold
    blooded massacre of a number of unarmed and unoffending prisoners
    of war in confinement? Humanity shudders at the thought, and
    language furnishes no appropriate epithet with which to brand the
    infamous perpetrator of so foul, so hitherto unheard of a crime.
    Did that writer now live, he would no longer extol the humanity of
    the English nation, but in common with the friends of humanity, he
    would join in the "universal horror" which British cruelty has
    excited.

    The complexion of this transaction is rendered still more dark and
    barbarous, and its criminality most shockingly enhanced, by the
    circumstances under which many of those unfortunate men became
    prisoners, and finally were offered up as victims to gratify the
    cruel and insatiate feeling of the British agent. They were
    American Citizens, who had been impressed into the service and
    bondage of Great Britain, in time of peace. They had served that
    government from a necessity, arising from the assumed principle of
    a right to search neutral vessels for British seamen, and the
    practice of taking Americans and compelling them to service. We
    cannot, however, too much applaud the magnanimity of those men, in
    refusing to fight against and slaughter their countrymen; nor can
    we too much detest the conduct of Great Britain, in confining them
    as prisoners of war.

    This practice assumed as a right in the first moments of our
    existence as an independent and commercial nation, has "grown with
    our growth," and the evil thereof has increased in proportion as
    our commercial rivalship has become more alarming to the pride and
    injustice of Great Britain. It is a practice which cannot be
    traced to any principle of justification; and yet we have seen
    the legislators of Massachusetts, clothed with a garb of official
    sanctity, send to the world a report, amounting almost to a
    denial, that such a practice was in existence! We pretend not to
    judge of their motives: but we remark, how soon they are
    confounded by the report of Shortland and Magrath. By that
    instrument it appears, that of thirty-eight who were killed or
    wounded, twelve were of the number of Impressed Americans, who had
    given themselves up as prisoners of war, upon the commencement of
    hostilities. If this be the correct proportion of their prisoners,
    who have been impressed from American vessels, and as it is an
    official document of British authority, we cannot believe the
    ratio to be less, we see the advocates of British magnanimity
    confounded and put to shame, by the testimony of those same
    British agents, whose justification they have so eagerly, though
    unsuccessfully attempted. It might, indeed, have been supposed,
    that after having so frequently been treated with the same
    contempt, they might have learned sufficient caution, at least, to
    stay their measures until the pleasure of their transatlantic
    friends should be known. But their overweening anxiety has only
    tended to plunge them in deeper embarrassments, and should teach
    them, that more prudence and less zeal in the cause of a national
    enemy, might secure them a safer retreat in the moments when those
    whose friendship they had so anxiously sought, had deserted, and
    condemned them.

    By the report of the Legislature of Massachusetts upon the subject
    of impressments, it would appear that no more than sixteen had
    been impressed from this Commonwealth. What must be our conclusion
    upon a comparison of this report, with that of Messrs. Shortland
    and Magrath? It is irresistable, either that the former did not
    report the full number of impressments, or that the latter have
    aggravated their guilt and condemnation, by swelling the number to
    a degree beyond what the facts would justify, from some cause,
    unknown to their American advocates, and in favor of the facts and
    principles, for which the American government have uniformly
    contended. A few of those assumed as facts, by the present
    dominant party in New-England, may aid us in this enquiry, and
    perhaps conduct us to a correct conclusion. They have repeatedly
    told us, that New-England, and more particularly Massachusetts,
    has ever been the nursery of our seamen. That this section had
    furnished more than the whole remaining part of the United States.
    Admitting the correctness of the report of Shortland and Magrath,
    we are wholly unable to reconcile the report of our Legislature
    with those which they assume as facts, and upon which the
    principles of their report were, in part, predicated. It exhibits
    to our view a disposition to fritter away the enormities of the
    British Government, and a determination to justify them in every
    act of barbarity, however unjustifiable in its circumstances, or
    however shocking in its operation.

    The report of Messrs. King and Larpent may here claim a portion of
    our attention. Unpleasant as the task may be, to reflect, even
    indirectly upon the conduct of one of our countrymen, acting in
    the high and solemn capacity to which Mr. King was called, we
    cannot, however, without doing violence to our own feelings, and
    criminating numbers of our countrymen, perhaps equally entitled to
    credibility with Mr. King himself, afford our credence to his
    singular report; especially when we see it contradicted
    unconditionally, by the unfortunate witnesses of the unhappy and
    barbarous transaction.

    Even Mr. King himself, in his letter to Mr. Adams, furnishes a
    tardy acknowledgment, that he had not completed the duties to
    which he had been called. And why
    did Mr. King forbear to press every point involved in the report?
    Was it from a disposition to perform his whole duty to his
    country; or, rather, from a too common admiration of British
    principles and British characters.

    The numerous affidavits accompanying the report made by the
    committee of the prisoners, together with the reply to the report
    of Messrs. King and Larpent, afford the most positive testimony in
    contradiction to many of its prominent features. We can form no
    other opinion respecting this report, than either that Mr. King
    was overreached by his colleague, or that he was pre-determined to
    fritter down the abuses which the British Government and its
    agents had lavished upon their American prisoners. Why either
    Messrs. King or Larpent should decline the examination of all the
    witnesses offered by the prisoners, is wholly inexplicable, unless
    we attribute to them a mutual and fixed determination to justify
    the conduct of Shortland and his accomplices, at the expense of
    criminating hundreds of Americans, who were no less entitled to
    credibility than either of themselves. Hereafter "let no such men
    be trusted."

    The treatment of the prisoners appears to have proceeded from the
    same principles of inhumanity, which have given rise to the
    hostile operations of the British Commanders upon our maritime and
    inland frontiers, during the continuance of the late contest. Such
    principles belong only to Savages or their allies. The outrages at
    the river Raisin, Hampton, Havre de Grace, Washington, and those
    attempted at New-Orleans, it was thought, might have filled the
    measure of British barbarities. But to the prisons of Dartmoor was
    transferred the scene of its completion. Americans, armed in
    defence of their soil, their Constitution, and natural rights,
    were too invincible to the "veteran" conquerors of the East.
    Prisoners of war in confinement, and without arms, were selected
    as the objects upon which they might glut their malice.

    We have heard much from a certain class of our politicians of the
    burning of Newark and St. David's; but little have they said of
    the destruction of Buffalo, of Washington City, or the massacre of
    our unfortunate countrymen at Dartmoor; and that little has been
    directed to the justification of the perpetrators. The
    conflagration of our Capitol, with the appendages of art and
    taste, and even the slaughter of our countrymen, could not excite
    in those minds one feeling of indignation; whilst the unauthorized
    destruction of a few houses, within the territorial limits of our
    enemy, not only excited their warmest sympathies for the enemy,
    but their foulest denunciations of our own Government.

    We might here attempt a comparison of the treatment of each
    Government to their prisoners. But the contrast is so evident,
    that we shall commit it to our readers without remark.

    Where is the American, whose feelings do not become indignant,
    after a full and dispassionate view of all the circumstances
    connected with this savage transaction. Though we may again be
    told, that Great Britain is the 'Bulwark of our Religion;' yet it
    may be hoped, that few, indeed, will be found to worship in a
    temple stained with the blood of their countrymen, or consign
    their consciences to the keeping of the upholders of the temple of
    Juggernaut, or the restorers of Papal power.

    Though our policy as an Independent Republic is pacific, yet
    should our rights again be assailed, and future wars ensue, WE
    WILL REMEMBER DARTMOOR!

           *       *       *       *       *

    We here subjoin a letter from the Right Honorable Lord Castlereagh
    to our Commissioners at Ghent, with their answer, together with
    the reply of our Secretary of State to the British charge des
    affairs at Washington:

    Lord Castlereagh to Messrs. Clay and Gallatin.

                                         Foreign Office, May 22, 1815.

    GENTLEMEN--I lost no time in laying before the Prince Regent the
    report made by Mr. Larpent and Mr. King, respectfully appointed on
    the part of his majesty's government, and that of the United
    States of America, to enquire into the circumstances of the late
    unfortunate occurrence at Dartmoor Prison.

    His Royal Highness has commanded me to express, through you, to
    the government of America, how deeply he laments the consequences
    of this unhappy affair.

    If any thing can tend to relieve the distress which his Royal
    Highness feels on this occasion, it is the consideration, that the
    conduct of the soldiers was not actuated from any spirit of
    animosity towards the prisoners, and that the inactivity of the
    officers may be attributed rather to the inexperience of militia
    forces, than to any want of zeal or inclination to afford that
    liberal protection which is ever due to prisoners of war.

    But as his Royal Highness has observed, at the same time, with
    sincere regret, that although the firing of the troops upon the
    prisoners may have been justified at its commencement, by the
    turbulent conduct of the latter, yet that the extent of the
    calamity must be ascribed to a want of steadiness in the troops,
    and of exertion in the officers, calling for the most severe
    animadversion. His Royal Highness has been pleased to direct the
    commander in chief to address to the commanding officer of the
    Somerset militia, his disapprobation of the conduct of the troops,
    which it is trusted will make a due impression on the minds of the
    officers and men who were engaged in this unfortunate transaction.

    As an additional proof of the sentiments which animate the Prince
    Regent on this occasion, I am further commanded to express his
    Royal Highness' desire to make a compensation to the widows and
    families of the sufferers; and I have to request that you,
    gentlemen, would make this known to your government, inviting
    them, at the same time, to co-operate with his majesty's charge
    d'affairs in the United States, in investigating the respective
    claims, for the purpose of fulfilling his Royal Highness'
    benevolent intentions upon this painful occasion.

    I request that you will accept the assurance of the distinguished
    consideration with which I have the honor to be, &c.

    (Signed)

                                                          CASTLEREAGH.

    To Henry Clay, Esq. and Albert Gallatin, Esq.

    Copy of a letter from Messrs. Clay and Gallatin, to Lord
    Castlereagh.

                       Hanover Street, Hanover Square, March 24, 1815.

    MY LORD--We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
    lordship's official note of the 22d inst.

    Having, as we have already informed your lordship, no powers on
    the subject to which it refers, we will lose no time in
    transmitting it to our government.--We will also place in the
    possession of the American minister, near his Britannic majesty's
    government, whose arrival here we daily expect, a copy of your
    lordship's note, together with a statement of what had previously
    passed respecting the unfortunate event at Dartmoor.

    We embrace the opportunity of tendering, &c.

    (Signed)

                                                      H. CLAY,
                                                      ALBERT GALLATIN.

    The Right Honorable Viscount Castlereagh, Secretary of State for
    the Foreign Department, &c. &c.

    The Secretary of State to Anthony St. John Baker, Esq. his
    Britannic majesty's charge d'affairs.

                   Washington, Department of State, December 11, 1815.

    SIR--I have the honor to receive your letter of the 3d of August,
    communicating a proposition of your government to make provision
    for the widows and families of the sufferers in the much to be
    lamented occurrence at Dartmoor.

    It is painful to touch on this unfortunate event, from the deep
    distress it has caused to the whole American people. This
    repugnance is increased by the consideration that our governments,
    though penetrated with regret, do not agree in sentiment,
    respecting the conduct of the parties engaged in it.

    Whilst the President declines accepting the provision contemplated
    by his royal highness, the Prince Regent, he nevertheless does
    full justice to the motives which dictated it. I have the honor to
    be, &c.

    (Signed)

                                                         JAMES MONROE.

From all which it appears that nothing further can now be done relative to this shocking transaction.
The government and the people of America have similar feelings. His Royal Highness the Prince
Regent of England offers to give money by way of compensating the widows and families of the
slain, as was offered in the affair of the Chesapeake; but the PRESIDENT very properly refused
the price of blood. There is now no constituted earthly tribunal before which this deed can
be tried and punished, it is therefore left, like some other atrocities from the same quarter,
with the feelings of Christian people. They have already tried it, and brought in their verdict.--But,
"vengeance is mine, and I will repay saith the Lord;"--and to HIM we leave it.

The night following the shocking massacre was spent in deep disquietude. As we knew not what
had actually occasioned this, in some degree, deliberate slaughter, so we were filled with
anxiety as to its final termination.--The horrors of Paris, under Robespiere, rose to view,
and deprived us of sleep; or if wearied nature got a moment's relief, many waked up screaming
with the impression, that they were under the hands of a murderer dressed in red.

The gates of our prison were closed up in the morning, and each one seemed describing to his
neighbor what he had seen and heard; and every one execrating the villain who had occasioned
the massacre. In the course of the day, a British colonel, whom we had never before seen, appeared
at the inner gate, attended by the detestable Shortland, who was pale and haggard like ordinary
murderers. The colonel asked us, generally, What was the cause of this unhappy state of things?
We related some particulars as well as we could; but all united in accusing captain Thomas
Shortland of deliberate murder. On Shortland's denying some of the accusations, the colonel
turned round to him, and said, in a very serious tone, "Sir, you have no right to speak at
this time." Upon which I thought the valiant captain would have fainted. He, doubtless, thought
of a halter. The colonel went to the other yards, and received, as we were informed, statements
not materially differing from what he first heard. The colonel's manner left an agreeable impression
on our minds. He appeared to be seriously grieved, and desirous to find out the truth.

The next day major general Brown came up from Plymouth in the forenoon, and made some trifling
enquiries in the afternoon. Soon after came admiral Rowley, and a captain in the navy, whose
name I do not remember. They went into the military walk over the gates, when the space below
was soon filled with prisoners. The admiral did not impress us quite so agreeably as the colonel,
who seemed to speak and look his own good feelings; while the former appeared to have got his
lesson, and have come prepared to question us like an attorney, rather than like a frank and
open seaman. The admiral informed the prisoners that he was appointed by the commander in chief
at Plymouth, to inquire, whether the prisoners had any cause for complaint against the British
government, as to their PROVISIONS?--There ensued a short silence, until our countryman, Mr.
Colton, a man who was neither intimidated by rank, nor disconcerted by parade, answered him
and said, that "the affair of provisions was not the occasion of their present distress and
anxiety, but that it was the horrid massacre of their unoffending and unresisting countrymen,
whose blood cried from the ground, like the blood of Abel, for justice. We have nothing now
to say about our provisions; that is but a secondary concern. Our cry is for due vengeance
on the murderer, Shortland, to expiate the horrors of the 6th of April. We all complain of
his haughty, unfeeling and tyrannical conduct at all times, and on all occasions."--"THAT WE
HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH," said the admiral, and then repeated the former question, relative
to the British government and the provisions; to which Mr. Colton replied in a still more exasperated
tone of accusation against the murderer and the murder. "Then you do not," said the admiral,
"complain of the British government for detaining you here?" "By no means," said our spokesman,
"the prisoners, one and all, ascribe our undue attention here, to a neglect of duty in our
own agent, Mr. Beasly." "Then I hope," said the admiral, "that you will all remain tranquil.
I lament AS MUCH AS YOU, the unfortunate occurrence that has taken place." Upon this Mr. Colton
mentioned particularly the murder of the boy who was shut up in No. 4, after the prisoners
were all driven in through the doors, and averred that he was killed by the direct order of
a British officer, who came to the door with some of the guard. "That is the lobster-backed
villain," exclaimed a young man, "that stands behind you, sir! who, I heard deliberately order
his men to fire on the prisoners, after they had all got into the building. I saw him, and
heard him give the orders, and had like to have been bayoneted myself by his soldiers."--The
admiral looked round on the officer, who reddened almost to a purple, and sneaked away, and
was seen no more; and thus was ended what was probably called Admiral R's examination into
the causes of the massacre!

I know of no examination after this, if such an interview may be called an examination; for,
on the ---- of April, myself and a few others were set at liberty. We had made application
the night before, and passed the night in sleepless anxiety. At 10 o'clock orders were sent
down to collect our things. We dare not call our wretched baggage, by any other than the beggarly
name of "duds." In consequence of this order, the turnkey conveyed us to the upper gate, where
we remained a while fluttering between fear and hope. At length the sergeant of the guard came,
and opened the gate, and conducted us to the guard room, where our fears began to dissipate
and our hopes to brighten.--When the clerk entered, he must have seen anxiety in our countenances,
and was disposed to sport with our feelings. He put on a grave and solemn phiz, mixed with
a portion of the insolence of office, as if he were about to read our death-warrants, while
we cast a look of misery at each other. At length, with apparent reluctance, he vouchsafed
to hand to each of us, like a miser paying a debt, the dear delicious paper, the evidence of
our liberty! on which was written, "by order of the transport board." This was enough, we devoured
it with our eyes, clinched it fast in our fists, laughed, capered, jumped, screamed, and kicked
up the dirt like so many mad men; and away we started for Princetown, looking back as we ran,
every minute, to see if our ceroebrus, with his bloody jaws, was not at our heels. At every
step we took from the hateful prison, our enlarged souls expanded our lately cramped bodies.
At length we attained a rising ground; and O, how our hearts did swell within us at the sight
of the OCEAN! that ocean that washed the shores of our dear America, as well as those of England!
After taking breath, we talked in strains of rapture to each other. "This ground, said I, belongs
to the British; but that ocean, and this air, and that sun, are as much ours as theirs; or
as any other nations. They are blessings to that nation which knows best how to deserve and
enjoy them. May the arm of bravery secure them all to us, and to our children forever!" Long
and dismal as our captivity has been, we declared, with one voice, that should our government
again arm and declare war, for "free trade and sailors' rights," we would, in a moment, try
again the tug of war, with the hard hearted Britons; but with the fixed resolution of never
being taken by them alive; or, at least, unwounded, or unmutilated. I see, I feel that the
love of country is our "ruling passion;" and it is this that has and will give us the superiority
in battle, by land and by sea, while the want of it will cause some folks to recoil before
the American bayonet and bullets, as the British did at Chippewa, Erie, Plattsburg and New Orleans.

While the British prisoner retires from our places of confinement in good health, and with
unwilling and reluctant step, we, half famished Americans, fly from theirs as from a pestilence,
or a mine just ready to explode. If the British cannot alter these feelings in the two nations,
her power will desert her, while that of America will increase.

After treading the air, instead of touching the ground, we found ourselves at the Devonshire
arms, in Princetown, where the comely bar-maid appeared more than mortal. The sight of her
rosy cheeks, shining hair, bright eyes, and pouting lips wafted our imaginations, in the twinkling
of an eye, across the Atlantic to our own dear country of pretty girls. I struck the fist of
my right hand into the palm of my left, and cried out--"O, for an horse with wings!" The girl
stared with amazement, and concluded, I guess, that I was mad; for she looked as if she said
to herself--"poor crazy lad! who ever saw a horse with wings?"

We called for some wine, and filling our glasses, drank to the power, glory, and honor, and
everlasting happiness of our beloved country; and after that to all the pretty girls in America.
During this, we now and then looked around us, to be certain all this was not a dream, and
asked each other if they were sure there was no red coat watching our movements, or surly turnkey
listening to our conversation? and whether what we saw were really the walls of an house, where
ingress and egress were equally free? It is inconceivable how we are changed by habit. Situations
and circumstances ennoble the mind, or debase it.

From what I myself experienced, and saw in others, on the day we left our hateful prison, I
do not wonder that sudden transitions from the depressing effects of imprisonment, sorrow,
chagrin, impatience, or feelings bordering on despair, to that of liberty and joy, should so
affect the vital organs, as to bring on a fatal spasm; or that the sudden exhilarations of
the animal spirits, might produce phrenzy. We were animated anew with a moderate portion of
generous liquor; but absolutely intoxicated with joy. We asked a thousand questions without
waiting for an answer. In the midst of our rapture we had a message from Shortland, who seemed
to be afraid that we should be so near him, and yet out of his power, that if we did not hasten
our march on to Plymouth, he would have us brought back to prison. At the sound of his hateful
name, and the idea of his person, we started off like so many wild Zebras. We, however, stepped
a little out of the road to an eminence, to take another, and a last look of the Dartmoor depot
of misery, when we saw waving over it, the American flag, like the colors sans tache, waving
over the walls of Sodom and Gomorrha. We gave three cheers, and then resumed our road to Plymouth,
where we soon after arrived.

While dining at the inn, an old man, in the next room, hearing we were Americans, came in and
asked us if we knew his son who lived in America, and mentioned his name. "Yes," said one of
my companions; "he is a mechanic; I think a carpenter--I know him very well, and he is a very
clever fellow." The old man caught hold of him, and shook him by the hand as if he would shake
his arm off. "Yes, yes, you are right, my son is a ship carpenter, and it almost broke my heart
when he went off to seek his fortune in a far country." In the fulness of his heart, the poor
old man offered to treat us with the best liquor the house afforded; but we all excused ourselves
and declined his generosity. This would have been carrying the joke too far, for neither of
us ever had any knowledge of his son. We felt happy; and we thought, if we thought at all,
that we would make the old man happy also. The English and Americans are equally addicted to
bantering, hoaxing, quizzing, humming, or by whatever ridiculous name we may denote this more
than ridiculous folly. I never heard that the French, Germans, Spaniards, or Italians, were
addicted to this unbenevolent wit, if cowardly imposition can merit that name.

As we strolled through Plymouth, we gazed at every thing we saw, as if we had just fallen into
it from the moon. In staring about we lost our way, and accosted a grave looking, elderly man,
who directed us. As we asked him several questions, he thought he had a right to ask one of
us; when, to our surprise, he asked us if we had any gold to sell? We now perceived that we
had taken for our director one of the sons of Abraham, whose home is no where; and that he
took us to be either privateersmen or pick-pockets. Piqued at this, we thought we would be
even with him, and we asked him if his name was not Shortland? He said no. We asked him if
he had no relations of that name. He enquired if "dit Shortland vas Jew or Christian?" We told
him he was neither one nor the other. "Den," said Moses, "he must be Turk; for dere be but
three sort of peoples in the world;" and this set us a laughing at the expense of the despised
Israelite, until we lost him in some of the dirty alleys of this noisy seaport.

I slept that night at the Exchange Coffee House. It was so long since I had been cut off from
the decencies of life, that I could hardly be said to enjoy them. I could not, at first, reconcile
myself to the civil attention of servants and waiters. At the hour of sleep, I was shown to
such a bed as I used to sleep on in my father's house. But who would believe it, that my predominant
misery during this night, was a feather bed and a pillow, rendered uneasy because it was soft
as down! Yes, astonished reader! I felt about as uneasy in a feather bed, as Mr. Beasly, or
any other fine London gentleman would, at laying on a plank, or the ballast of a transport.
Such is the power of habit, and such the effect of custom.

The next morning before I left my bed, I pondered over the events and conduct of the preceding
day, but not with satisfaction, or self approbation. The seventh chapter of Ecclesiastes came
fresh to my mind. I said to myself, adversity and constraint are more favorable to wisdom,
than liberty and prosperity; or to express it in better words--"sorrow is better than laughter,
for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better;" and for this maxim of wisdom
we are indebted to a Jew.

We remained a fortnight longer in Plymouth, and learnt by degrees to relish civility. We were
kindly noticed by several good people who seemed to be rather partial to us, Americans, than
otherwise. While there, I heard but very little uttered against America, or Americans. We were
spoken to, and treated infinitely better than at Halifax. By the time of our embarkation, which
was the 23d of April, 1815, we felt considerable attachment to the people about us. We arrived
at New-York the 7th of June following, without any thing occurring in the passage worth committing
to paper, unless it be to record the striking contrast in our feelings in our passage to and
FROM England.

My sensations on first setting my foot once more on my native soil, were such as I have not
power to describe. Tears gushed from my eyes, and had I not been ashamed, I should have kneeled
down and kissed the earth of the UNITED STATES. I believe similar sensations, more or less
fervent, fill the bosom of every American, on returning to his own country from British captivity.
It is hardly possible that I shall, so long as my faculties remain entire, forget the horrors
of the British transports, and several scenes and sufferings at Dartmoor Prison: yet I hope
to be able, before I quit this world of contention, to forgive the contempts, the contumely,
the starvations and filthiness inflicted on me, and on my countrymen, by an unfeeling enemy,
while we remained in his power as prisoners of war.

    "Return we, from this gloomy view,
    To native scenes of fairer hue.
    Land of our sires! the Hero's home!
    Weary and sick, to thee we come;
    The heart fatigued with foreign woes,
    On thy fair bosom seeks repose.
    COLUMBIA! hope of future times!
    Thou wonder of surrounding climes!
    Thou last and only resting place
    Of Freedom's persecuted race!
    Hail to thy consecrated domes!
    Thy fruitful fields and peaceful homes.
    The hunter, thus, who long has toil'd
    O'er mountain rude, and forest wild,
    Turns from the dark and cheerless way,
    Where howls the savage beast of prey,
    To where yon curls of smoke aspire,
    Where briskly burns his crackling fire;
    Towards his cot delighted moves,
    Cheer'd by the voice of those he loves,
    And welcom'd by domestic smiles,
    Sings cheerly, and forgets his toils."

POSTSCRIPT.

Some, to whom I had shown my Journal in manuscript, have thought that I had, now and then,
expressed my feelings too unguardedly against some of the subjects of Great Britain, and some
of my own countrymen. In consequence of this friendly remark, I have struck out a few passages,
but have not been able to comply with all the wishes of my connexions. But, after all, had
a political cant phrase or two been omitted, some good people would have been gratified, and
the publication not the worse for it. I have severely suffered, felt keenly, and expressed
myself honestly, and without malice. I may not have made due allowance for the conduct of certain
officers and agents. I may not have entered, as far as I ought, into their situations; and
there might have been reasons and excuses, that my chafed feelings prevented me from attending
to. If so, the cool and candid reader, both here, and on the other side the Atlantic, will
make that allowance which I could hardly make myself. I must, nevertheless, maintain, that
I have expressed the feelings of the moment, and cannot now honestly alter my language; for
whenever my soul calls up many occurrences in my captivity, my tongue and my pen will be found
the faithful organs of my feelings.

I have endeavored to give due credit to the humane conduct of several sailors, soldiers, and
private subjects of the enemy. But, if, at this period of peace, when it may be supposed that
resentment was cooled down, I try to obliterate the impressions made by cruelty and by contempt,
and find I cannot, then must the reader take it as a trait of the imperfect character of a
young man, on whose mind adversity has not had its best effect.

If an animosity actually exists between the English and Americans, do you mend the matter by
denying the fact? This animosity has been avowed to exist, within a few months past, in the
parliament of England. The following article is extracted from a London paper.--In a debate,
(Feb. 14th, 1816) a member said, "the spirit of animosity in America, would justify an increase
of the naval force in the West Indies." This called up Lord Castlereagh, who said--"As to America,
if it is said great prejudices exist there against us, it must be recollected that great prejudices
exist here against her. It was," he said, "his most ardent wish to discountenance this feeling
on both sides, and to promote between the two nations feeling of reciprocal amity and regard."

What has occasioned this avowed animosity in us towards the British? Our merchants, generally,
feel not this animosity; neither is it to be found, in a great degree, amongst our legislators.
How came we by it? Our sailors and our soldiers, who have been in British prisons, and on board
British men of war, and transports, have brought with them this animosity home to their families
and their friends. They tell them their own stories, in their own artless, and sometimes exaggerated
way; and these are reported with, probably, high coloring; whereas, I have made it a point
of honor, a matter of conscience, and a rule of justice, to adhere to truth; and am contented
that the British reader should say all that fairness admits, to soften down the coloring of
some of the pictures of British barbarity, provided he does not attempt to impeach my veracity.

Beside individual animosity, there may possibly be a lurking national one, thinly covered over
with the fashionable mantle of courtesy. The conflicting interests of the two nations may endanger
peace.--The source of national aggrandizement in both nations, is commerce; and the high road
to them the ocean. We and the British are travelling the same way, in keen pursuit of the same
object; and it is scarcely probable, that we shall be preserved in a state of peace, by abstract
love of justice.

I have been disposed to allow that the conduct of our countrymen, while on board the prison
ships, and at Dartmoor, was, at times, provoking to the British officers set over them; but
never malignant, much less, bloody. It could be always traced to a spirit of fun and frolic,
which our people indulge in beyond all others in the world; and this ought to be considered
as one of the luxuriant shoots of our tree of liberty; for it is too harsh to call it an excrescence.
It shows the strength, depth and extent of its roots, and the richness of the soil.

This Journal has not been published to increase the animosity now subsisting between the American
and British people. So far from it, the writer pleases himself with the idea that this publication
may remedy the evils complained of, or mitigate them; and cut off the source of deep complaint
against the English, for their treatment of prisoners, should war rage again between the two
nations. If the present race of Britons have not become indifferent to a sense of national
character, their government will take measures to wipe off this stain from her garments. Let
the nations of Europe inquire how the Americans treat their prisoners of war. If we treat them
with barbarity, publish our disgrace to the wide world, and speak of us accordingly. But let
them, at the same time, inquire how the English treated those of us who have had the great
misfortune of falling into their hands; and let them be spoken of accordingly. My serious opinion
is, that this little book will aid the great cause of humanity.

Although I, with some thousands of my countrymen, were inclosed in a large prison during the
greater part of the war, it fared with us as with those people who seldom go out of their houses,
who hear more news than those who are abroad in the world. It was, however, pretty much all
of one sort; for we seldom saw any other American newspapers, than those of the fault finding,
or opposition party. These were generally filled with abuse of the PRESIDENT, and of the government
generally, and with praises of the English, which, in our situation, produced a strong sensation;
as our support, our protection, our pride, our honor, were identified in the person of the
President, and his administration. The efforts of the federal party in Massachusetts to embarrass
and tie the hands of our government, and disgrace its brave officers, created in us all, a
hatred of the very name of federalism. I record the fact, and appeal to all the prisoners who
have now returned home, to confirm my assertion; and I declare I have erased not a little on
this head, out of courtesy to a large and sanguine party; who have erred, and strayed from
the right way, by not knowing the true character of the English.

I feel no animosity, or disrespect to any gentleman of the federal, or fault finding party;
but they must excuse me for remarking, that their conduct, and their sentiments, as they appeared
in messages, proclamations, speeches and resolves; and their combinations for withholding loans
of money from government, with their denunciations of a war, waged professedly, and as we knew,
really, for "Sailors' Rights," made an impression on our minds so decidedly against the federalists,
that the very term federalism, was with us all, without one single exception, a term of deep
reproach. Let him who doubts it, ask any prisoner who made a part of the six thousand confined
in England during the two years of our late bitter war with the English, and he will be satisfied
that I have "nothing extenuated, or set down aught in malice."

I hope and pray for UNION among ourselves; and that all party names and distinctions may be
lost in that of AMERICANS.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Bivouacked is laying, sleeping, eating, and drinking on the ground with their arms, without
tents, or any covering, and is only voluntarily resorted to, when the greatest danger is apprehended.

[B] By what I have just seen in the newspapers, I have reason for believing that Nova Scotia
is like to be blessed with this gentleman for a governor.

[C] The Emperor Maurice being, says Montaigne, advised by dreams and several prognostics, that
one Phoeas, an obscure soldier, should kill him, questioned his son-in-law, Philip, who this
Phoeas was, and what was his nature, qualities, and manners; and as soon as Philip, amongst
other things, had told him that he was "cowardly and timorous," the Emperor immediately thence
concluded that he was cruel and a murderer. What is it, says Montaigne, that makes tyrants
so bloody? 'Tis the solicitude for their own safety, and their faint hearts can furnish them
with no other means of securing themselves, than in exterminating those who may hurt them.
See his Essay entitled, Cowardice the Mother of Cruelty.--Vol. 2d, chap. xxvii.

[D] Fire places gave rank among the Romans. It was a privilege to be a Roman soldier, and in
the best days of Rome no man was allowed to be in the ranks of their army, who had not a fire
place in his house. In the reign prior to Queen Elizabeth, there were scarcely any beds, or
brick fire places in the houses of the common people of London.

[E] What Mr. Adams has written on this subject, has put impressment, or man-stealing, beyond
all future controversy. His masterly pamphlet was a warlike trumpet in the ears of our nation.

[F] If any man wishes to see the true character of the English, let him read the 8th chapter
of HUME'S History of England, especially where it treats of severities and barbarities toward
the virtuous Mr. PRYM.

[G] Our youngest readers need not be told, that by John Bull, we mean the English nation personified.
See Dean Swift's admirable history of John Bull, his wife, and his mother, and his mangy sister
Peg.

[H] Queen Elizabeth.

[I] The letter writer, we suspect, had not studied, carefully, the laws and customs of England,
where all landed property belongs to the king; who allows the eldest male of a family to possess
it during his good behaviour.

[J] This Oration was first printed in England.

