The removal of excreta from houses.--The chief object of a perfect system of house drainage
is the immediate and complete removal from the house of all foul and effete matter directly
it is produced. The first object--viz., removal of foul matter, can be attained either by the
water closet system, when carried out in this integrity; but it could, of course, be attained
without drains if there was labor enough always available; and the earth closet or the pail
system are modifications of immediate removal which are safe. Cesspools in a house do not fulfill
this condition of immediate removal. They serve for the retention of excremental and other
matters. In a porous soil it endangers the purity of the wells. The Indian cities afford numerous
examples of subsoil pollution. The Delhi ulcer was traced to the pollution of the wells from
the contaminated subsoil; and the soil in many cities and villages is loaded with niter and
salt, the chemical results of animal and vegetable refuse left to decay for many generations,
from the presence of which the well water is impure. There are many factories of saltpeter
in India whose supplies are derived from this source; and during the great French wars, when
England blockaded all the seaports of Europe, the First Napoleon obtained saltpeter for gunpowder
from the cesspits in Paris. Cesspools are inadmissible where complete removal can be effected.
Cesspits may, however, be a necessity in some special cases, as, for instance, in detached
houses or a small detached barrack. Where they cannot be avoided, the following conditions
as to their use should be enforced:

1st. A cesspit should never be located under a dwelling. It should be placed outside, and as
far removed from the immediate neighborhood of the dwelling as circumstances will allow. There
should be a ventilated trap placed on the pipe leading from the watercloset to the cesspit.
2d. It should be formed of impervious material so as to permit of no leakage. 3d. It should
be ventilated. 4th. No overflow should be permitted from it. 5th. When full it should be thoroughly
emptied and cleaned out; for the matter left at the bottom of a cesspit is liable to be in
a highly putrescible condition.

Where a cesspit is unavoidable, perhaps the best and least offensive system for emptying it
is the pneumatic system. This is applicable to the water closet refuse alone. The pneumatic
system acts as follows: A large air-tight cylinder on wheels, or, what answers equally, a series
of air-tight barrels connected together by tubes about 3 in. diameter, placed on a cart, brought
as near to the cesspit as is convenient; a tube of about the same diameter is led from them
to the cesspit; the air is then exhausted in the barrels or cylinder either by means of an
air pump or by means of steam injected into it, which, on condensation, forms a vacuum; and
the contents of the cesspit are drawn through the tube by the atmospheric pressure into the
cylinder or barrels. A plan which is practically an extension of this system has been introduced
by Captain Liernur in Holland. He removes the fæcal matter from water closets and the sedimentary
production of kitchen sinks by pneumatic agency. He places large air-tight tanks in a suitable
part of the town, to which he leads pipes from all houses. He creates a vacuum in the tanks,
and thus sucks into one center the fæcal matter from all the houses. Various substitutes have
been tried for the cesspit, which retain the principle of the hand removal of excreta. The
first was the combination of the privy with an ashpit above the surface of the ground, the
ashes and excreta being mixed together, and both being removed periodically. The next improvement
was the provision of a movable receptacle. Of this type the simplest arrangement is a box placed
under the seat, which is taken out, the contents emptied into the scavenger's cart, and the
box replaced. The difficulty of cleansing the angles of the boxes led to the adoption of oval
or round pails. The pail is placed under the seat, and removed at stated intervals, or when
full, and replaced by a clean pail. In Marseilles and Nice a somewhat similar system is in
use. They employ cylindrical metal vessels furnished with a lid which closes hermetically,
each capable of holding 11 gallons. The household is furnished with three or four of these
vessels, and when one is full the lid is closed hermetically, the vessel thus remaining in
a harmless condition in the house till taken away by the authorities and replaced by a clean
one. The contents are converted into manure. In consequence of the offensiveness of the open
pail, the next improvement was to throw in some form of deodorizing material daily. In the
north of England the arrangement generally is that the ashes shall be passed through a shoot,
on which they are sifted--the finer fall into the pail to deodorize it, the coarser pass into
a box, whence they can be taken to be again burned--while a separate shoot is provided for
kitchen refuse, which falls into another pail adjacent.

Probably the best known contrivance for deodorizing the excreta is the dry earth system as
applied in the earth closet, in which advantage is taken of the deodorizing properties of earth.
Dry earth is a good deodorizer; 1½ lb. of dry earth of good garden ground or clay will deodorize
such excretion. A larger quantity is required of sand or gravel. If the earth after use is
dried, it can be applied again, and it is stated that the deodorizing powers of earth are not
destroyed until it has been used ten or twelve times. This system requires close attention,
or the dry earth closet will get out of order; as compared with water closets, it is cheaper
in first construction, and is not liable to injury by frost; and it has this advantage over
any form of cesspit--that it necessitates the daily removal of refuse. The cost of the dry
earth system per 1,000 persons may be assumed as follows: Cost of closet, say, £500; expense
of ovens, carts, horses, etc., £250; total capital, £750, at 6 per cent. £37 10s. interest.
Wages of two men and a boy per week, £1 12s.; keep of horses, stables, etc., 18s.; fuel for
drying earth, 1s. 6d. per ton dried daily, £1 10s.; cost of earth and repairs, etc., 14s.;
weekly expenses, £4 14s. Yearly expenses, £247 (equal to 4s. 11d. per ton per annum); interest,
£37 10s.--total, £284 10s., against which should be put the value of the manure. But the value
of the manure is simply a question of carriage. If the manure is highly concentrated, like
guano, it can stand a high carriage. If the manuring elements are diffused through a large
bulk of passive substances, the cost of the carriage of the extra, or non-manuring, elements
absorbs all profit. If a town, therefore, by adding deodorants to the contents of pails produces
a large quantity of manure, containing much besides the actual manuring elements--such as is
generally the case with dry earth--as soon as the districts immediately around have been fully
supplied, a point is soon reached at which it is impossible to continue to find purchasers.
The dry earth system is applicable to separate houses, or to institutions where much attention
can be given to it, but it is inapplicable to large towns from the practical difficulties connected
with procuring, carting, and storing the dry earth.

