THE GROWTH OF ENGLISH DRAMA

by

ARNOLD WYNNE, M.A.

Oxford At the Clarendon Press Printed in England At the Oxford University Press by John Johnson
Printer to the University Impression of 1927 First edition, 1914

PREFACE

In spite of the fact that an almost superabundant literature of exposition has gathered round
early English drama, there is, I believe, still room for this book. Much criticism is available.
But the student commonly searches through it in vain for details of the plots and characters,
and specimens of the verse, of interludes and plays which time, opportunity, and publishers
combine to withhold from him. Notable exceptions to this generalization exist. Such are Sir
A.W. Ward's monumental English Dramatic Literature, and that delightful volume, J.A. Symonds'
Shakespeare's Predecessors; but the former extends its survey far beyond the limits of early
drama, while the latter too often passes by with brief mention works concerning which the reader
would gladly hear more. Some authors have written very fully, but upon only a section of pre-Shakespearian
dramatic work. Of others it may generally be said that their purposes limit to criticism their
treatment of all but the best known plays. The present volume attempts a more comprehensive
plan. It presents, side by side with criticism, such data as may enable the reader to form
an independent judgment. Possibly for the first time in a book of this scope almost all the
plays of the University Wits receive separate consideration, while such familiar titles as
Hick Scorner, Gammer Gurton's Needle, and The Misfortunes of Arthur cease to be mere names
appended to an argument. As a consequence it has been possible to examine in detail the influence
of such men as Heywood, Udall, Sackville, and Kyd, and to trace from its beginning, with much
closer observation than a more general method permits, the evolution of the Elizabethan drama.

I have read the works of my predecessors carefully, and humbly acknowledge my indebtedness
to such authorities as Ten Brink and Ward. From Mr. Pollard's edition of certain English Miracle
Plays I have borrowed one or two quotations, in addition to information gathered from his admirable
introduction. Particularly am I under an obligation to Mr. Chambers, upon whose Mediaeval Stage
my first chapter is chiefly based. To the genius of J.A. Symonds I tender homage.

For most generous and highly valued help as critic and reviser of my manuscript I thank my
colleague, Mr. J.L.W. Stock.

ARNOLD WYNNE.

SOUTH AFRICAN COLLEGE, CAPE TOWN.

CONTENTS

                                                         PAGE
CHAPTER I
EARLY CHURCH DRAMA ON THE CONTINENT                         9

CHAPTER II ENGLISH MIRACLE PLAYS                                      22

CHAPTER III MORALITIES AND INTERLUDES                                  51

CHAPTER IV RISE OF COMEDY AND TRAGEDY                                 87

CHAPTER V COMEDY: LYLY, GREENE, PEELE, NASH                         124

CHAPTER VI TRAGEDY: LODGE, KYD, MARLOWE, Arden of Feversham        193

APPENDIX THE ELIZABETHAN STAGE                                     270

INDEX                                                     277

CHAPTER I

EARLY CHURCH DRAMA ON THE CONTINENT

The old Classical Drama of Greece and Rome died, surfeited with horror and uncleanness. Centuries
rolled by, and then, when the Old Drama was no more remembered save by the scholarly few, there
was born into the world the New Drama. By a curious circumstance its nurse was the same Christian
Church that had thrust its predecessor into the grave.

A man may dig his spade haphazard into the earth and by that act liberate a small stream which
shall become a mighty river. Not less casual perhaps, certainly not less momentous in its consequences,
was the first attempt, by some enterprising ecclesiastic, to enliven the hardly understood
Latin service of the Church. Who the innovator was is unrecorded. The form of his innovation,
however, may be guessed from this, that even in the fifth century human tableaux had a place
in the Church service on festival occasions. All would be simple: a number of the junior clergy
grouped around a table would represent the 'Marriage at Cana'; a more carefully postured group,
again, would serve to portray the 'Wise Men presenting gifts to the Infant Saviour'. But the
reality was greater than that of a painted picture; novelty was there, and, shall we say, curiosity,
to see how well-known young clerics, members of local families, would demean themselves in
this new duty. The congregations increased, and earnest or ambitious churchmen were incited
to add fresh details to surpass previous tableaux.

But the Church is conservative. It required the lapse of hundreds of years to make plain the
possibility of action and its advantages over motionless figures. Just before this next step
was taken, or it may have been just after, two of the scholarly few mentioned as having not
quite forgotten the Classical Drama, made an effort to revive its methods while bitting and
bridling it carefully for holy purposes. Some one worthy brother (who was certainly not Gregory
Nazianzene of the fourth century), living probably in the tenth century, wrote a play called
Christ's Passion, in close imitation of Greek tragedy, even to the extent of quoting extensively
from Euripides. In the same century a good and zealous nun of Saxony, Hroswitha by name, set
herself to outrival Terence in his own realm and so supplant him in the studies of those who
still read him to their souls' harm. She wrote, accordingly, six plays on the model of Terence's
Comedies, supplying, for his profane themes, the histories of suffering martyrs and saintly
maidens. It was a noble ambition (not the less noble because she failed); but it was not along
the lines of her plays or of Christ's Passion that the New Drama was to develop. It is doubtful
whether they were known outside a few convents.

In the tenth century the all-important step from tableau to dialogue and action had been taken.
Its initiation is shrouded in obscurity, but may have been as follows. Ever since the sixth
century Antiphons, or choral chants in which the two sides of the choir alternately respond
to each other, had been firmly established in the Church service. For these, however, the words
were fixed as unchangeably as are the words of our old Psalms. Nevertheless, the possibility
of extending the application of antiphons began to be felt after, and as a first stage in that
direction there was adopted a curious practice of echoing back expressive 'ah's' and 'oh's'
in musical reply to certain vital passages not fitted with antiphons. Under skilful training
this may have sounded quite effective, but it is natural to suppose that, the antiphonal extension
having been made, the next stage was not long delayed. Suitable lines or texts (tropes) would
soon be invented to fill the spaces, and immediately there sprang into being a means for providing
dramatic dialogue. If once answers were admitted, composed to fit into certain portions of
the service, there could be little objection to the composition of other questions to follow
upon the previous answers. Religious conservatism kept invention within the strictest limits,
so that to the end these liturgical responses were little more than slight modifications of
the words of the Vulgate. But the dramatic element was there, with what potentiality we shall see.

So much for dramatic dialogue. Dramatic action would appear to have grown up with it, the one
giving intensity to the other. The development of both, side by side, is interesting to trace
from records preserved for us in old manuscripts. Considering the occasion first--for these
'attractions' were reserved for special festivals--we know that Easter was a favourite opportunity
for elaborating the service. The events associated with Easter are in themselves intensely
dramatic. They are also of supreme importance in the teaching of the Church: of all points
in the creed none has a higher place than the belief in the Resurrection. Therefore the 'Burial'
and the 'Rising again' called for particular elaboration. One of the earliest methods of driving
these truths home to the hearts of the unlearned and unimaginative was to bury the crucifix
for the requisite three days (a rite still observed in many churches by the removal of the
cross from the altar), and then restore it to its exalted position; the simple act being done
with much solemn prostration and creeping on hands and knees of those whose duty it was to
bear the cross to its sepulchre. This sepulchre, it may be explained, was usually a wooden
structure, painted with guardian soldiers, large enough to contain a tall crucifix or a man
hidden, and occupying a prominent position in the church throughout the festival. Not infrequently
it was made of more solid material, like the carved stone 'sepulchre' in Lincoln Cathedral.

A trope was next composed for antiphonal singing on Easter Monday, as follows:

    Quem quaeritis?
    Jhesum Nazarenum.
    Non est hic; surrexit sicut praedixerat: ite, nuntiate quia
        surrexit a mortuis.
    Alleluia! resurrexit Dominus.

Now let us observe how action and dialogue combine. One of the clergy is selected to hide,
as an angel, within the sepulchre. Towards it advance three others, to represent three women,
peeping here, glancing there, as if they seek something. Presently a mysterious voice, proceeding
out of the tomb, sings the opening question, 'Whom do you seek?' Sadly the three sing in reply,
'Jesus of Nazareth'. To this the first voice chants back, 'He is not here; he has risen as
he foretold: go, declare to others that he has risen from the dead.' The three now burst forth
in joyful acclamation with, 'Alleluia! the Lord has risen.' Then from the sepulchre issues
a voice, 'Come and see the place,' the 'angel' standing up as he sings that all may see him,
and opening the doors of the sepulchre to show clearly that the Lord is indeed risen. The empty
shroud is held up before the people, while all four sing together, 'The Lord has risen from
the tomb.' In procession they move to the altar and lay the shroud there; the choir breaks
into the Te Deum, and the bells in the tower clash in triumph. It is the finale of the drama
of Christ.

To illustrate at once the dramatic nature and the limitations of the dialogue as it was afterwards
developed we give below a translation of part of one of these ceremonies, from a manuscript
of the thirteenth century. The whole is an elaborated Quem quaeritis, and the part selected
is that where Mary Magdalene approaches the Sepulchre for the second time, lamenting the theft
of her Lord's body. Two Angels sitting within the tomb address her in song:

    Angels. Woman, why weepest thou?

    Mary. Because they have taken away my Lord,
        And I know not where they have laid him.

    Angels. Weep not, Mary; the Lord has risen.
        Alleluia!

    Mary. My heart is burning with desire
            To see my Lord;
        I seek but still I cannot find
            Where they have laid him.
                Alleluia!

     [Meanwhile a certain one disguised as a gardener draws near and
     stands at the head of the sepulchre.]

     He. Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou?

     Mary. Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast
     laid him, and I will take him away.

     He. Mary!

     Mary [throwing herself at his feet]. Rabboni!

