The day fixed for the departure was Monday, and on the day before there was to be a grand feast,
a farewell festival; though to tell the truth, none of them felt much like making a jubilee.
Rolf alone was in the mood, and he took charge of the preparations, as an important part of
which, a number of choice riddles were to be hung about the summer-house as transparencies:
in honor of his patron.

On Saturday Dora took her seat, as usual, with the family at dinner, but no one had any appetite;
the coming separation was too much in their thoughts. As the mother was helping to soup, one
after another exclaimed, "Very little for me," "Please only a little," "I really don't care
for any to-day," "Scarcely any for me, thank you," "And less for me, to-day."

"I should like to ask--" said their father, amid this shower of "No, thank yous;" "I can't
help wondering whether this 'thank you, to-morrow,' style of thing is caused by grief at parting,
or by a general dislike for onion-soup."

"Onion-soup! onion-soup! that is the answer to Hunne's riddle!" cried Rolf with a cry of victory,
for he had really taken it seriously to heart, that Hunne's charade had been so long unguessed.
The answer was right. Poor Hunne was quite depressed at this unexpected blow, and in a moment
he said somewhat pitifully,

"Oh dear! papa, if you had not said that about 'thank you, to-morrow,' for the soup, then no
one would ever have found it out. Now I shall have no more fun with it."

But Dora had a comforting word for him, even now, and whispered softly, "Yes, Hunne dear, you
shall have some more fun with it, for I will bring over my album this afternoon, and I will
guide your hand while you write the charade in it, and then I will take it to Karlsruhe, and
show it to all the people I know there, and they will all try to guess it."

So Hunne was comforted, and was able to finish his dinner happily. But under the apple-tree
where they were assembled for the last time, the family were in very low spirits. For the next
day Dora must stay with her aunt to help her, and could not join them until the evening, in
time for the good-bye feast. Paula sat with her eyes full of tears, and did not speak one word.
Lili had already given signs of her state of mind, by all sorts of restless movements, and
at last she exclaimed,

"Mamma, I wish I never need touch the piano again; it will be terribly tiresome without Dora,
and Miss Hanenwinkel will find fault again and say I am 'not progressing,' and I don't want
to 'progress' when Dora is not here!"

"Oh dear!" sighed Jule, "what terrible days are before us, with danger to life and limb, when
the twins begin again to find their time hang heavy on their hands. It is a very stupid arrangement
anyway," he went on quite excitedly; "it would be far better for Dora to pass the winter with
us. Her aunt and uncle could go on in their quiet way in Karlsruhe all the same without her."

The mother sympathized entirely in the children's regret at the separation and said she hoped
to persuade Mr. Ehrenreich to bring his wife and Dora back for another summer.

Hunne was the only one more interested in the present than in the future, and he kept pulling
Dora's dress and saying,

"Go get your book, Dora! get the book!"

So Dora went to get her album, and brought it over for each one of her friends, in the good
old fashion, to write a verse or a motto in it, by way of remembrance. It was no new, elegant,
gilded affair. It was an old book, faded and worn, and much of the writing in it was pale with
age. Here and there had been pasted on, tiny bunches of flowers and leaves all of which had
lost their color, and many of which had fallen off. The album had belonged to Dora's mother,
and the verses were all written in unformed, childish characters. There were also some drawings,
and among these one of a small house and a well, with a man standing near it, particularly
attracted Hunne's attention, and he took the book in his own hands, and began turning the leaves.

"Hallo!" he exclaimed with a knowing look, as he took out a piece of paper that lay folded
between the leaves; "Mamma has one like this; it belongs to Lili; the one I am going to America
to find."

Julius laughed aloud. "What in the world are you chattering to Dora about now, Hunne?" But
his mother glanced, quickly at the little boy as she caught his words, took the paper from
his hand and read what was written there.

Great tears fell from her eyes as she read; the memory of long past hours of her happy childhood
rose before her, clear and distinct, and almost overpowered her, Her own mother's face, and
all the sights and sounds of childhood! It was the other half of her own poem that she held
in her hand, the half that had been kept by her dearly loved friend. She gave it silently to
her husband; she could not trust her voice to read it aloud.

The children watched her curiously as she took the other half from her notebook, and laid the
two bits of yellow faded paper side by side. They made a sheet of the usual size of old-fashioned
letter paper. The writing was the same on both, and as the lines were joined, their meaning
became plain. Mr. Birkenfeld read the verses aloud:

    "Lay your hand in mine dear,
     Joined thus we need not fear,
     Each the other clasping fast,
     That our union should not last,
     But behold, the fates decree
     That our future severed be.
     We will cut our verse in two,
     Half for me and half for you.
     But we still will hope forever
     That the halves may come together,
     And with no loss to deplore.
     Our friendship be as 'twas before."

The mother had taken Dora's hand in hers. "Where did you get this paper, Dora?" she asked,
much moved.

"It has always been in my mother's album," replied the child with surprise.

"Then you are my Lili's child!" cried Mrs. Birkenfeld, "and that is what your eyes always said
to me, when I looked into them;" and she folded Dora softly to her heart.

The children were intensely excited, but seeing how much moved their mother was, they restrained
themselves, and sat very still, watching Dora and their mother with eager looks. But little
Hunne broke the spell.

"Then I sha'n't have to go to America, shall I, mamma?" he said gaily, for since he had given
his word to go to find the lost Lili, he had often thought with alarm of the long journey that
he must take alone.

"No, dear child, we will all stay here together," said his mother, turning towards the children
with Dora's hand fast in hers; "Dora is the Lili you were to seek, and we have found her."

"Oh, mamma," cried Paula, "Dora and I will be what you and her mother were; we will carry out
the verses. We will say:

    "'But we still will hope forever
     Now the halves have come together
     No farther losses to deplore,
     Our friendship prove as yours before.'"

"Oh yes, and ours," "me too," "so will I," and all the children joined in promising eternal
friendship with Dora. But the mother had taken her husband's hand and had drawn him away down
the shady walk.

"All right, I agree to it all," said Mr. Birkenfeld over and over again, as his wife talked
eagerly, while they walked back and forth. Presently Mrs. Birkenfeld left him and crossed over
to the next house. She asked for Mrs. Ehrenreich, and now as they sat together by the window,
she told Aunt Ninette in words that came from her heart, with what delight she had discovered
that Dora was the daughter of her earliest and dearest friend; that friend from whom she had
been so long separated, but whose memory was still green in her heart. She wanted to learn
all that could be told of her friend's life and death, but Aunt Ninette had little to tell.
She had never known Dora's mother; her brother had spent several years in America where he
had married, and his wife had died in Hamburg shortly after Dora's birth. That was all she
knew. Then Mrs. Birkenfeld went directly to the point. She explained to Mrs. Ehrenreich how
much she had enjoyed and profited by, her long visits at her friend's father's house, and how
deeply she felt that she owed these kind friends a debt of gratitude which she now saw an opportunity
partly to repay, by doing what she could for Dora. In short, if Aunt Ninette and her husband
would consent, her most fervent wish would be to take Dora and bring her up as her own child.

She met with none of the opposition which she had feared. Aunt Ninette said frankly that Dora
had not a cent of property, and that she would be entirely dependent on her own work as a seamstress;
as neither her aunt nor her uncle could afford to spend anything on her farther education.
She considered it a great blessing that the child should have found such a friend, and she
heartily rejoiced in her good fortune; and was sure that her husband would fully agree with
her. So there was nothing farther for Mrs. Birkenfeld to do, but to embrace Mrs. Ehrenreich
most cordially, and then to hasten home to tell the children the happy news. She knew how they
would take it.

There they were all under the apple-tree, all looking towards their mother and impatient for
what she might have to tell them; hoping that it might be some plan for prolonging Dora's stay.
But when the mother told them that from that day forward Dora was to belong to them, forever,
as their sister and a child of the family, then a shout of joy arose that made the welkin ring
again and awoke the echoes in the farthest corner of the garden. It aroused Uncle Titus and
brought him from his distant summer-house with a gentle smile, saying half to himself and half
aloud,

"It is a pity it will soon be over."

Aunt Ninette was standing at an open window, looking down into the garden, and as she heard
the shouts of joy that rose again and again from under the apple-tree, she said to herself,
smiling "How we shall miss all this cheerful noise when we are far away."

The children were indeed jubilant, and they decided to organize a feast in honor of Uncle Titus
and Aunt Ninette, a feast more brilliant than any that had ever before made the shades of the
garden glow with splendor.

That night Dora went up to her little room for the last time, for the next morning she was
to move over to the other house. The happy family of children whom she had secretly watched
with longing heart, were now to be her brothers and sisters; the lovely garden into which she
had gazed with hopeless eyes was henceforth to be her home; she was to have parents who would
surround her always with their protecting love. She was to learn what the others learned; yes,
to have regular studies with them, as well as music-lessons. Dora's heart was flooded with
the thoughts that welled up within her. One thing she was sure of; that her father was looking
down at her, and rejoicing with her. She stood at the window and gazed up at the sparkling
stars, and recalled the sad hours of depression that she had known, when these stars did not
seem to bring her comfort, and when she had almost lost faith in that kind heavenly Father,
who nevertheless had now brought all this happiness to her.

She fell on her knees and thanked God for his goodness, and prayed that she might never again
doubt Him, but that even in times of sorrow, she might be able to say, with heart-felt trust
in the words of her father's verse:

    "God holds us in his hand,
     God knows the best to send."

Uncle Titus and Aunt Ninette engaged their rooms with Mrs. Kurd for the following summer; Uncle
Titus even went farther still, and begged Mrs. Kurd, no matter what happened, never to promise
them to any one else; for he left her house now with keen regret, and hoped to return to it
every summer as long as he lived.

When Monday morning came, the whole family were on hand before the cottage, to wish the departing
guests good-speed. Rolf drew the uncle aside, and asked if he might venture to send a charade
to Karlsruhe, now and then; to which Uncle Titus kindly replied that he should receive any
such with pleasure, and answer them with punctuality.

Sly little Hunne, when he overheard these remarks, declared at once, "I will also send mine;"
for he did not doubt that his would be equally acceptable to Uncle Titus, if not more so. He
thought also that the quiet people of Karlsruhe would never be able to guess such charades
as he would make, and his heart was filled with pride. Dora and Paula wandered arm in arm into
the garden, singing gaily,

    "No farther losses to deplore
     In friendship live for evermore."

APPENDIX.

The Charades in this story, involving play upon the German words and syllables, are of course
nearly all untranslatable; the translator has therefore substituted English ones; as follows:

                                  PAGE

Welcome   for "Heimkehr"          80

Music      "  "Katzenmusik"      104

Milton     "  "Vogelweide"       105

Palfrey    "  "Milch Strasse"    107

Plato      "  "Aristotle"        227

Caesar     "  "Heliogabal"       228

Bonaparte  "  "Wallenstein"      230

Matterhorn "  "Finsteraarhorn"   230

Gladstone  "  "Semiramis"        231