Some of the lighter musical portions of the Opera are charming, and the Chorus at the end of
Act I, might have been written by OFFENBACH. But what is there of the story? Nothing. The King
is not killed: the Queen isn't poisoned: Polonius is not stabbed behind the arras, having been,
perhaps, killed before the Opera commenced, since his name appears in the book but not in the
programme, and the only person on the stage that I could possibly associate with that dear
old Lord Chamberlain was M. MIRANDA, who had donned a white beard and a different robe from
what he had been previously wearing as Horatio in the First and Second Acts, in order to enter
and lead the King away, in an interpolated and ineffective scene which was not in the book.
A very hard-working Opera for the principals, and a thankless task. Hamlet's drinking song
fine, and finely sung. But the whole point of the Opera is in the last Act, where there is
a ballet that has nothing to do with the piece, but pretty to see little PALLADINO in short
white skirts, dancing merrily in a forest glade, among the happy peasantry, to whom comes Ophelia,
mad as several hatters, and after a lunatic scene, charming, both musically and dramatically,
throws herself into the water, and dies singing.

Here is a suggestion for the effective compression and reduction of the Opera, and if my plan
be accepted, DRURIOLANUS will earn the eternal gratitude of those who would like to hear all
that is good in it, and to skip, as PALLADINO does, the rest. Thus:--

ACT I.--Enter HAMLET. Solo. Exit. Enter OPHELIA. Solo. Re-enter HAMLET. OPHELIA and HAMLET
love-duet. Exit OPHELIA. HAMLET'S Friends come in, and he sings them a Drinking Song with Chorus.
All join in Chorus and Dance. Curtain.

ACT II.--Opening Chorus (anything; it doesn't matter if it's only pretty and bright). Enter
HAMLET. Solo. "Être, ou ne pas être." Enter OPHELIA with book, pretends not to see HAMLET.
Solo. Enter Queen. OPHELIA complains to her that HAMLET isn't behaving like a gentleman. Queen
upbraids HAMLET: So does OPHELIA: HAMLET depressed, Exit Queen R.H. Exit OPHELIA L.H. HAMLET
remains, evidently going mad. PALLADINO looks in. Dances. HAMLET joins her. Enter Friends,
Courtiers, Peasants, and other Friends. All join in ballet, HAMLET included. Enter Keepers,
and HAMLET is taken off to Hanwellhagen. OPHELIA rushes in, faints. Curtain.

ACT III.--Meadows near Hanwellhagen, in Denmark. Dance of Lunatics, out for a holiday. To them
enter OPHELIA. All the charming music, delightful, and, this being finished, she chucks herself
away into the stream. Curtain.

Great call for everybody concerned. And, if the above scheme be adopted, the Opera would be
over before eleven, having begun at nine. I present this with my compliments to DRURIOLANUS
and AMBROISE THOMAS; and, if he is not "a doubting THOMAS," he will try this plan.

The remainder of the week passed away happily, so I hear, but was not able to be in my place,
as I was at somebody else's place far, far away. The Opera has been, from the first, a big
success. Should like to hear Masaniello once again. Perhaps that is a treat in store for all
of us. Thus ends the Opera-goer's Diary for 1890, and everybody is highly satisfied and delighted.
Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL PARADOX.

  When Autumn comes, our womenfolk prepare
  To grind the "old old tune" called "change of air."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"OUR TURN NOW!"

OR, MR. BULL AND THE WANDERING MINSTRELS.

  Mr. Bull. Confound these Wandering Minstrels! Oh, the bore of them!
    Only just settled with yon tow-hair'd fellow
  Turning the corner, and behold two more of them,
    Prepared to grind and tootle, blow and bellow,
  Until I tip them in a liberal fashion.
    Upon my word, their noise is something shocking;
  Enough to put a person in a passion.
    Menaces slighting and remonstrance mocking,
  They stand and twangle, tootle, grind, and gurgle
    Their horrible cacophony. Find it funny,
  Ye grinners? Might as well my mansion burgle,
    As "row" me forcibly out of my money.
  The Teuton tootler, being tipped, is "sloping,"
    Patting his pocket with a smile complacent.
  The Gallic blower, for like treatment hoping,
    Grins at the Portuguese who grinds adjacent.
  What a charivari! Oh, I must stop it!
    I say, you rascal with the hurdy-gurdy,
  More than enough of that vile shindy; drop it!
    And you, my brazen, blatant, would-be VERDI,
  Hush that confounded horn, or go and blow it
    At--Jericho. My walls you will not tumble
  By windy shindy, and you ought to know it.

  Horn-Player. Bah! ze old hombogs! He sall growl and grumble
  But he vill pay ven it come to ze pinches;
    I know him, ze cantankerous vieux chappie.
  Ze German yonder, vy he take ze inches,
    And get ze Hel-igoland! Now he quite happy.
  I do ze same. Pom! Pom! Zat blast vos thunder!
    How he do tear his hair and tvist his features.
  He svear, but he vill vat you call "knock under."

  Mr. Bull. I say, you Portugee, smallest of creatures,
  And noisiest for your size, shut up, and hook it!

  Hurdy-gurdy. Gr-r-r-r! Gr-r-r-r! Zey say zat ze old fool is
      skveezable,
  Melting in his own heat. Py gar, he look it.
    Ze Teuton yonder find zat he vas teaseable
  Out of ze "tip," ze big pour-boire. He got him,
    He go, he grin! Sall I not take ze hint too?
  I get him too--I go. But I no let him
    Drive me away, as he did SERPA PINTO.
  Gr-r-r-r! Gr-r-r-r! I see zat he no like ze grinding.
    Soo mooch ze bettare! He sall give mooch money;
  Ze pour-boire, someveres, he sall soon be finding,
    If I keep on. Zeese Eenglish are so funny.

  Tutto. Ze money for ze Minstrels! Kvick! So sall you
    Get rid of us. Like to ze artful gloser
  In Mistare SEYMOUR'S sketch, ve "know ze value
    Of peace and kvie'ness." Pay us, ve go, Sir!   [Left tootling.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE KNOW.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN PROPHET.)

Am I going to Goodwood? I answer that question by another. Is it likely that a race-meeting
of any pretensions can possibly do without one whom even his enemies acknowledge to be the
only accurate and high-minded sporting writer in the world? Those who care (and I devoutly
hope that Mr. J., whose brains equal those of a newly-born tadpole, will not be amongst the
number) can see me at any moment on pronouncing the password, "mealy-mouth," in my old place,
close to the space devoted to Royalty. Yes, I shall be there. In the meantime, I propose to
treat of the horses as only I can treat of them. I have nothing to say against Pioneer, except
that the name promises very well for one who means to lead the way. Nous verrons, as RACINE
said, on a celebrated occasion. As for The Imp, I cannot too strongly lay it down that only
blue devils are bad for the digestion, and Galloping Queen may gallop farther than or not so
far as Miss Ethel. A miss must be better than a mile to win. If Theophilus were Formidable,
or if Imogene possessed a Grecian Bend, it might be necessary to sound Reveille in Rotten Row,
which would certainly be a Marvel. Not being a roadster, I sometimes like The Field.

The above information ought to be sufficient to guide anybody whose brains are calculated to
fill an egg-cup. All others may go to Earlswood, where they will probably meet Mr. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REAL GRIEVANCE OFFICE.

(BEFORE MR. COMMISSIONER PUNCH.)

AN ANGLO-INDIAN GENTLEMAN INTRODUCED.

The Commissioner. Well, Sir, What can I do for you?

Anglo-Indian. I wish respectfully to call your attention, Sir, to our case, which is now before
a Parliamentary Committee. I am an Indian Civil Servant. I am called a member of the Uncovenanted
Service, but I contend that such a term is a misnomer. Originally the Uncovenanted Service
consisted of Natives of India, who were employed, without covenant, to do subordinate official
work, under the direction of the Covenanted Civil Service. The bulk of these persons were overseers
and tax-collectors.

The Com. Has there been any alteration of late years? I see you lay a stress upon originally.

Anglo-In. At this moment there are in the Service, in one department alone--the Educational--a
Senior Classic, a Second Wrangler, several other Wranglers, and many Fellows of Oxford and
Cambridge, who took high honours with their degrees. The Service now requires great technical
knowledge, as it has to deal with Archæology, Finance, Geological Survey, Public Works, and
Telegraphy, and can only be entered by Europeans, who have been selected by nomination, or
after competition, either by the Secretary of State for India, or the Government of India.
It is not an Uncovenanted Service, as we now enter it with the prospect of pension; and one
of our grievances is, that that prospect has become less favourable through the recent action
of our employers.

The Com. Be kind enough to explain.

Anglo-In. Certainly, Sir. When we entered the Service our pension, after serving thirty years,
was stated by the Secretary of State to be £500. Naturally this was taken to mean gold, but
because years ago the Service consisted of Natives, the Government hit upon the plan of paying
us in silver, which at the present rate means a loss of £150 in the £500.

The Com. Are the members of the other Indian Services, Civil and Military, treated in like manner?

Anglo-In. No, they are paid their pensions in gold.

The Com. Well, considering the class of men who now enter your Service I do not see why you
should be put at so great a disadvantage. Have you any other grievances?

Anglo-In. Well, thirty years is a long time to have to serve in a climate as trying as the
tropics, especially when we are not allowed to count furlough as service.

The Com. I think so, too. Then I may sum up your grievances thus. You are educated men, and
therefore deserve fair treatment. You would consider fair treatment, payment of pensions in
gold, and the lessening of the years of service necessary to earn the right of retirement?

Anglo-In. Exactly, Sir; and I cannot thank you sufficiently for putting our case so plainly.

The Com. Not at all. Should you receive no redress within a reasonable time, you may mention
the matter to me again.

    [The Witness with a grateful bow then withdrew.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHADOW OF A CASE!

(TO THE EDITOR OF PUNCH.)

DEAR SIR,--As the leading forensic journal of this great country (your contemporary Weekly
Notes runs you pretty close occasionally in some of its reports), I address you. The trial
created considerable interest, not only amongst the general public, but amongst that branch
of our honourable Profession represented by the Junior Bar, no doubt, because certain points
of law, not easily recognisable--I frankly confess, I myself, am unable to recount them--were
no doubt in question, and had to be decided by competent authority. The Counsel directly engaged
were some of the brightest ornaments of Silk and Stuff. Amongst the rest were my eloquent and
learned friend, Sir CHARLES RUSSELL, my erudite and learned friend Mr. INDERWICK (whose Side-lights
upon the Stuarts, is a marvel of antiquarian research), and my mirth-compelling and learned
friend Mr. FRANK LOCKWOOD, whose law is only equalled (if, indeed, it is equalled) by his comic
draughtmanship. As the details of the trial have been fully reported, there is no necessity
to go into particulars. However, there was a feature in the case that the passing notice of
an article in one or more of the leading journals is scarcely sufficient to meet.

It was proved that the detective part of divorce (if I may use the expression) may be conducted
in a fashion, to say the least, of not the most entirely satisfactory character. A talented
family were called before us, whose performances were, from one point of view, extremely amusing.
But, Sir, although (as you will be the first to admit) laughter is a most excellent thing in
its proper place, the sound of cachinnation is seldom pleasing in the Divorce Court. Under
these circumstances I would propose that, in future, Divorce Shadowing should be put under
the protection of the State. There should be a special department, and the Shadowers should
be of the distinguished position of Mr. MCDOUGALL of the London County Council, and the like.
The office of the rank and file of the Shadowers should be honorary, as the pleasure of following
in (possibly) unsavoury steps in the cause of virtue, would be to them, I presume, ample reward
for any trouble the labour might entail. I would willingly myself undertake the responsibilities
attaching to the post of Director-General, of course on the understanding that a suitable provision
were made, not only as compensation for the loss of my practice, but also that I might perform
the duties of the office with suitable dignity. But when I say this, I would add, that I should
reserve to myself the right of seeking the supplementary services of the Archbishop of CANTERBURY,
and Mr. Sheriff AUGUSTUS HARRIS, as assessors in assisting me to distinguish between innocence
and vice, and guilt and virtue.

Believe me, with an expression of all necessary respect for "the Nobility" connected with the
case to which I have referred, and admiration for the courage of a certain Militiaman, exhibited
by his entering the witness-box, and there facing the cross-examination he so richly deserved,
I remain, Yours truly,

(Signed) A BRIEFLESS, JUNIOR.

Pump-handle Court, July 29, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Poet and Prophet are nearly allied. Mr. ALFRED AUSTIN is an illustration of this, in his recently
published English Lyrics (MACMILLAN) all of which he must have written in utter ignorance of
the doings of the Chairman of the County Council. Yet, hath the Prophetic Poet these lines:--

  "Primrose, why do you pass away?"

And the Primrose's return:

  "Nay, rather, why should we longer stay?"

But the Conservative bias of the Poet is shown in the next line:

  "We are not needed," &c.

The commencement of the poem, however, as here quoted, is evidently an inspiration for which
the Poet was not responsible. It is a charming little volume of charming verse. It is good
poetic wine, which needs not the bush provided by Mr. WILLIAM WATSON in the shape of a thickset
introduction. What, asks W.W., is the attitude of ALFRED AUSTIN towards Nature? This recalls
a well-known scene in Nicholas Nickleby--"She's a rum 'un, is Natur'," said Mr. Squeers. "She
is a holy thing, Sir," remarked Mr. Snawley. And these observations of Messrs. Snawley and
Squeers pretty accurately sum up all that the ingenious WILLIAM WATSON has to say about Natur'
and ALFRED AUSTIN. The moral of which lies in the application of it, which is,--skip the preface,
and make plunge into the poetry.

A good deal has been written in olden time and of late about the Oberammergau Passion Play.
Nothing has been better done than the work by Mr. EDWARD R. RUSSELL, formerly M.P. for Glasgae,
who visited Oberammergau this year. His account is instinct with keen criticism, fine feeling,
and reasoning reverence. Moreover, whilst other works are padded out into bulky volumes, he
says all that need be said in fifteen pages of a pleasantly-printed booklet--price sixpence.
It is a reprint from letters which the errant Editor contributed to his journal, the Liverpool
Daily Post, at the sign of which copies may be had. THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

Art's Friends and Foe!

  TATE, WALLACE, AGNEW! Here be three good names,
  Friends of true Art, and furtherers of her aims;
  Munificence but waits to take sound shape;
  Say, shall it be frustrated by--Red Tape?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHNNY, MAKE ROOM FOR DELONCLE!

(NEW NORTH AFRICAN VERSION OF AN OLD SONG.)

    "M. DELONCLE, in his conversation with a Belgian reporter,
    puts in a claim for practically the whole of the northern
    half of Africa, with the possible exception of Egypt."--The
    Times.

    AIR--"Tommy, make room for your Uncle."

    Deputy DELONCLE (addressing JOHNNY BULL) sings:--

  Nothing but deserts now left for France!
    Hang it! That will not do!
  Therefore DELONCLE her claims must advance,
    Mighty they are, nor few.
  Right from Oubanghi unto Lake Tchad,
    Through Wadai and Ba-gir-mi!
  JOHNNY, my lad, I shall be glad
    If you'll make room for ME!

    Chorus.

    JOHNNY, make room for DELONCLE,
      There's a little dear!
    JOHNNY, make room for DELONCLE,
      He wants to stay here.
    He needs the whole of North Africa!
      (The rest he may leave to you),
    Do not annoy, there's a good boy!
      Make room for DELONCLE, do!

  To So-ko-to and the Gan-do,
    Your claims you must resign.
  If France goes far from Zanzibar,
    I'll draw a new boundary line.
  To the east of the Niger by latitude ten!
    That is our mi-ni-mum!
  Ours the Sahara! Yes, che sarà sarà!
    Therefore don't you look glum!

    Chorus.

    JOHNNY, make room for DELONCLE!
      The Niger is ours, that's clear.
    JOHNNY, make room for DELONCLE!
      He doesn't want you here.
    France must take up her traditional rôle
      (Of grabbing all she can do)
    So, JOHNNY, my boy, don't you annoy;
      Make room for DELONCLE, do! Still, as JOKIM has
shown in connection with one or two of his little Bills, it is
quite possible nearly to wreck a Ministry even on matter-of-fact
business arrangements. But RITCHIE isn't JOKIM, and so his Bill
passes to-night, taking two steps at a time, both sides uniting in
congratulation and cheers. WALTER FOSTER, rising, salutes the Minister
with a quite touching bless-you-my-child attitude. FOSTER rather
hints that the Bill everyone is so pleased with, is really his. True,
RITCHIE'S name is on back, and he took charge of it in its passage
through Committee and House. But the real man was FOSTER; his
Amendments had made the Bill; he had moulded it in Committee, and now
here he was to give it his blessing. Rather delicate position; sort of
cracking up himself, which FOSTER would not do for the world; blushed
a little, as he praised the Bill; otherwise accomplished his task with
ease and grace, whilst RITCHIE, listening, twitched his eyebrows, and
thought unutterable things.

"I wish," said OLD MORALITY, "we had an embarrassment of RITCHIES, or even two or three more
like him."

OLD MORALITY been rather worried to-night; a hail-storm of questions on all sorts of subjects;
amongst others, TIM HEALY and WILFRID LAWSON badgering him about the Local Taxation Bill. When
is it really intended to take it? LAWSON asks OLD MORALITY back at the table again for twentieth
time; literally gasping for breath; looked round House with anguished expression; then happy
thought strikes him; "Mr. SPEAKER, Sir," he says, "it is really impossible to do more than
one thing at a time."

