The Englishman, as far as I have observed, as a rule gets up with reluctance, and begins with
difficulty. Just as you are beginning to feel seriously anxious for him, you gradually discover
that he is on the verge of saying some uncommonly good thing. Before you are fully prepared
for it he says that good thing, and then to your infinite amazement he sits down!

The American begins with an ease which relieves you of all anxiety. The anxiety begins when
he talks a while without making any special point. He makes his point at last, as good perhaps
as the Englishman's, possibly better. But then when he has made it, you find that he goes on
feeling for some other good point, and he feels and feels so long, that perhaps he sits down
at last without having made it.

My ideal of a perfect speech in public would be that it should be conducted by a syndicate
or trust, as it were, of the two nations, and that the guaranty should be that an American
should be provided to begin every speech and an Englishman provided to end it.

Then, when we go a little farther and consider the act of speech itself, and its relation to
the word, we sometimes meet with a doubt that we see expressed occasionally in the daily papers
provided for us with twenty pages per diem and thirty-two on Sunday, whether we will need much
longer anything but what is called sometimes by clergymen "the printed word"--whether the whole
form of communication through oral speech will not diminish or fade away.

It seems to me a truly groundless fear--like wondering whether there will ever be a race with
only one arm or one leg, or a race of people who live only by the eye or by the ear. The difference
between the written word and the spoken word is the difference between solitude and companionship,
between meditation and something so near action that it is at least halfway to action and creates
action. It is perfectly supposable to imagine a whole race of authors of whom not one should
ever exchange a word with a human being while his greatest work is being produced.

The greatest work of American literature, artistically speaking, Hawthorne's "Scarlet Letter,"
was thus produced. His wife records that during the year that he was writing it, he shut himself
up in his study every day. She asked no questions; he volunteered no information. She only
knew that something was going on by the knot in his forehead which he carried all that year.
At the end of the year he came from his study and read over to her the whole book; a work of
genius was added to the world. It was the fruit of solitude.

And sometimes solitude, I regret as an author to say, extends to the perusal of the book, for
I have known at least one volume of poems of which not a copy was ever sold; and I know another
of which only one copy was sold through my betraying the secret of the author and mentioning
the book to a classmate, who bought that one copy.

Therefore, in a general way, we may say that literature speaks in a manner the voice of solitude.
As soon as the spoken word comes in, you have companionship. There can be no speech without
at least one person present, if it is only the janitor of the church. Dean Swift in reading
the Church of England service to his manservant only, adapted the service as follows: "Dearly
beloved Roger, the Scripture moveth thee and me in sundry places," etc.; but in that very economy
of speech he realized the presence of an audience. It takes a speaker and an audience together
to make a speech--I can say to you what I could not first have said to myself. "The sea of
upturned faces," as Daniel Webster said, borrowing the phrase, however, from Scott's "Rob Roy"--
"the sea of upturned faces makes half the speech." And therefore we may assume that there will
always be this form of communication. It has, both for the speaker and for the audience, this
one vast advantage. In his "Church History of Britain" he gives a short chapter to "The Conveniency
of She-Colleges." (I once quoted this chapter at Smith College, and was accused of making it
up.) "Nunneries also," he observes, "were good She-Schools, wherein the girls and maids of
the neighborhood were taught to read and work; and sometimes a little Latin was taught them
therein. Yea, give me leave to say, if such feminine foundations had still continued, haply
the weaker sex might be heightened to a higher perfection than hitherto hath been attained.
That sharpness of their wits, and suddenness of their conceits, which their enemies must allow
unto them, might by education be improved into a judicious solidity."

The feminine mind, with its quick intuitions and unsteady logic, may keep the intuitions and
gain a firmness which makes it more than transiently stimulating. The emotional mind has its
charm, especially if its emotions are favorable to ourselves.

In some things it may be well that emotion is greater than logic; but emotion in logic is sad
to contend with, sad even to contemplate--and such is too often the reasoning of the untrained
woman. Do not for a moment suppose that I believe such reasoning peculiar to women; but from
the best men it has been in great measure trained out.

In a right-minded, sound-hearted girl, college training tends toward control of the nervous
system; and control of the nervous system-- making it servant and not master--is almost the
supreme need of women. Without such control they become helpless; with it they know scarcely
a limit to their efficiency. The world does not yet understand that for the finest and highest
work it looks and must look to the naturally sensitive, whether women or men. I remember expressing
to the late Professor Greenough regret that a certain young teacher was nervous. His answer
has been a comfort to me ever since. "I wouldn't give ten cents for any one who isn't." The
nervous man or woman is bound to suffer; but the nervous man or woman may rise to heights that
the naturally calm can never reach and can seldom see. To whom do you go for counsel? To the
calm, no doubt; but never to the phlegmatic-never to the calm who are calm because they know
no better (like the man in Ruskin "to whom the primrose is very accurately the primrose because
he does not love it"). You go to the calm who have fought for their calmness, who have known
what it is to quiver in every nerve, but have put through whatever they have taken in hand.

There are numberless sweet and patient women who never studied beyond the curriculum of the
district school, women who help every one near them by their own unselfish loveliness; but
the intelligently patient, the women who can put themselves into the places of all sorts of
people, who can sympathize not merely with great and manifest griefs, but with every delicate
jarring of the human soul--hardest of all, with the ambitions of the dull--these women, who
must command a respect intellectual as well as moral, reach their highest efficiency through
experience based on college training.

College life, designed as it is to strengthen a girl's intellect and character, should teach
her to understand better, and not worse, herself as distinguished from other beings of her
own sex or the opposite, should fortify her individuality, her power of resisting, and her
determination to resist, the contagion of the unwomanly. Exaggerated study may lessen womanly
charm; but there is nothing loud or masculine about it. Nor should we judge mental training
or anything else by scattered cases of its abuse. The only characteristics of women that the
sensible college girl has lost are feminine frivolity, and that kind of headless inaccuracy
in thought and speech which once withheld from the sex--or from a large part of it--the intellectual
respect of educated men.

At college, if you have lived rightly, you have found enough learning to make you humble, enough
friendship to make your hearts large and warm, enough culture to teach you the refinement of
simplicity, enough wisdom to keep you sweet in poverty and temperate in wealth. Here you have
learned to see great and small in their true relation, to look at both sides of a question,
to respect the point of view of every honest man or woman, and to recognize the point of view
that differs most widely from your own. Here you have found the democracy that excludes neither
poor nor rich, and the quick sympathy that listens to all and helps by the very listening.
Here too, it may be at the end of a long struggle, you have seen--if only in transient glimpses--that
after doubt comes reverence, after anxiety peace, after faintness courage, and that out of
weakness we are made strong. Suffer these glimpses to become an abiding vision, and you have
the supreme joy of life.

THE ART OF ACTING

From an address to the students of Harvard University, 1885. Published in "The Drama; Addresses
by Henry Irving," William Heinemann, London, publisher, 1893

BY HENRY IRVING

What is the art of acting? I speak of it in its highest sense, as the art to which Roscius,
Betterton, and Garrick owed their fame. It is the art of embodying the poet's creations, of
giving them flesh and blood, of making the figures which appeal to your mind's eye in the printed
drama live before you on the stage. "To fathom the depths of character, to trace its latent
motives, to feel its finest quiverings of emotion, to comprehend the thoughts that are hidden
under words, and thus possess one's self of the actual mind of the individual man"--such was
Macready's definition of the player's art; and to this we may add the testimony of Talma. He
describes tragic acting as "the union of grandeur without pomp and nature without triviality."
It demands, he says, the endowment of high sensibility and intelligence.

You will readily understand from this that to the actor the well-worn maxim that art is long
and life is short has a constant significance. The older we grow the more acutely alive we
are to the difficulties of our craft. I cannot give you a better illustration of this fact
than a story which is told of Macready. A friend of mine, once a dear friend of his, was with
him when he played Hamlet for the last time. The curtain had fallen, and the great actor was
sadly thinking that the part he loved so much would never be his again. And as he took off
his velvet mantle and laid it aside, he muttered almost unconsciously the words of Horatio,
"Good-night, sweet Prince" then turning to his friend, "Ah," said he, "I am just beginning
to realise the sweetness, the tenderness, the gentleness of this dear Hamlet!" Believe me,
the true artist never lingers fondly upon what he has done. He is ever thinking of what remains
undone: ever striving toward an ideal it may never be his fortune to attain.

It is often supposed that great actors trust to the inspiration of the moment. Nothing can
be more erroneous. There will, of course, be such moments, when an actor at a white heat illumines
some passage with a flash of imagination (and this mental condition, by the way, is impossible
to the student sitting in his armchair); but the great actor's surprises are generally well
weighed, studied, and balanced. We know that Edmund Kean constantly practiced before a mirror
effects which startled his audience by their apparent spontaneity. It is the accumulation of
such effects which enables an actor, after many years, to present many great characters with
remarkable completeness.

I do not want to overstate the case, or to appeal to anything that is not within common experience,
so I can confidently ask you whether a scene in a great play has not been at some time vividly
impressed on your minds by the delivery of a single line, or even of one forcible word. Has
not this made the passage far more real and human to you than all the thought you have devoted
to it? An accomplished critic has said that Shakespeare himself might have been surprised had
he heard the "Fool, fool, fool!" of Edmund Kean. And though all actors are not Keans, they
have in varying degree this power of making a dramatic character step out of the page, and
come nearer to our hearts and our understandings. Thus the poet recognized the actor's art
as a most potent ally in the representation of human life. He believed that to hold the mirror
up to nature was one of the worthiest functions in the sphere of labor, and actors are content
to point to his definition of their work as the charter of their privileges.

ADDRESS TO THE FRESHMAN CLASS AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY

From "The Harvard Graduates Magazine"

BY CHARLES WILLIAM ELIOT

Just in the last few years we have had a striking illustration of strong reaction against prevailing
educational policies. There has come upon us right here on these grounds and among Harvard's
constituents, and widespread over the country as well, a distrust of freedom for students,
of freedom for citizens, of freedom for backward races of men. This is one of the striking
phenomena of our day, a distrust of freedom.

Now, there is no moment in life when there comes a greater sudden access of freedom than this
moment in which you find yourselves. When young men come to an American college, I care not
at all which college--to any American college from the parents' home or from school, they experience
a tremendous access of freedom. Is it an injury? Is it a danger? Are you afraid of it? Has
society a right to be afraid of it? What is freedom for? What does it do for us? Does it hurt
us or help us? Do we grow in it, or do we shrink in it? That is quite an important question
in the management of Harvard University. It is the important question in modern government.
It is pretty clear that when young men or old men are free, they make mistakes, and they go
wrong; having freedom to do right or wrong, they often do right and they often do wrong. When
you came hither, you found yourselves in possession of a new freedom. You can overeat yourselves,
for example; you can overdrink; you can take no care for sleep; you can take no exercise or
too much; you can do little work or too much; you can indulge in harmful amusements: in short,
you have a great new freedom here. Is it a good thing for you or a bad thing? Clearly you can
go astray, for the road is not fenced. You can make mistakes; you can fall into sin. Have you
learned to control yourselves? Have you got the will-power in you to regulate your own conduct?
Can you be your own taskmaster? You have been in the habit of looking to parents, perhaps,
or to teachers, or to the heads of your boarding schools or your day schools for control in
all these matters. Have you got it in yourselves to control yourselves? That is the prime question
which comes up with regard to every one of you when you come to the University. Have you the
sense and the resolution to regulate your own conduct?

It is pretty clear that in other spheres freedom is dangerous. How is it with free political
institutions? Do they always yield the best government? Look at the American cities and compare
them with the cities of Europe. Clearly, free institutions do not necessarily produce the best
government. Are then free institutions wrong or inexpedient? What is freedom for? Why has God
made men free, as he has not made the plants and the animals? Is freedom dangerous? Yes! but
it is necessary to the growth of human character, and that is what we are all in the world
for, and that is what you and your like are in college for. That is what the world was made
for, for the occupation of men who in freedom through trial win character. It is choice which
makes the dignity of human nature. It is habitual choosing after examination, consideration,
reflection, and advice, which makes the man of power. It is through the internal motive power
of the will that men imagine, invent, and thrust thoughts out into the obscure beyond, into
the future. The will is the prime motive power; and you can only train your wills, in freedom.
That is what freedom is for, in school and college, in society, industries, and governments.
Fine human character is the ultimate object, and freedom is the indispensable condition of
its development.

Now, there are some clear objects for choice here in college, for real choice, for discreet
choice. I will mention only two. In the first place, choose those studies--there is a great
range of them here--which will, through your interest in them, develop your working power.
You know it is only through work that you can achieve anything, either in college or in the
world. Choose those studies on which you can work intensely with pleasure, with real satisfaction
and happiness. That is the true guide to a wise choice. Choose that intellectual pursuit which
will develop within you the power to do enthusiastic work, an internal motive power, not an
external compulsion. Then choose an ennobling companionship. You will find out in five minutes
that this man stirs you to good, that man to evil. Shun the latter; cling to the former. Choose
companionship rightly, choose your whole surroundings so that they shall lift you up and not
drag you down. Make these two choices wisely, and be faithful in labor, and you will succeed
in college and in after life.

WITH TENNYSON AT FARRINGFORD

From "Alfred Lord Tennyson, A Memoir by His Son," with the permission of The Macmillan Company,
New York and London, publishers.

Before leaving for Aldworth we spent some delightful sunny days in the Farringford gardens.
In the afternoons my father sat in his summerhouse and talked to us and his friends.

This spring he had enjoyed seeing the unusually splendid blossom of apple and pear tree, of
white lilacs, and of purple aubretia that bordered the walks.

At intervals he strolled to the bottom of the kitchen garden to look at the roses, or at the
giant fig tree ("like a breaking wave," as he said) bursting into leaf; or he marked the "branching
grace" of the stately line of elms, between the boles of which, from his summerhouse, he caught
a glimpse of far meadows beyond. He said that he did not believe in Emerson's pretty lines:--

  "Only to children children sing,
  Only to youth the Spring is Spring."

"For age does feel the joy of spring, though age can only crawl over the bridge while youth
skips the brook." His talk was grave and gay together. In the middle of anecdotes he would
stop short and say something of what he felt to be the sadness and mystery of life.

What impressed all his friends was his choice of language, the felicity of his turns of expression,
his imagery, the terseness of his unadorned English, and his simple directness of manner, which
none will ever be able to reproduce, however many notes they may have taken. His dignity and
repose of manner, his low musical voice, and the power of his magnetic dark eye kept the attention
riveted. His argument was clear and logical and never wandered from the point except by way
of illustration, and his illustrations were the most various I have ever heard, and were taken
from nature and science, from high and low life, from the rich and from the poor, and his analysis
of character was always subtle and powerful.

While he talked of the mysteries of the universe, his face, full of the strong lines of thought,
was lighted up; and his words glowed as it were with inspiration.

When conversing with my brother and myself or our college friends, he was, I used to think,
almost at his best, for he would quote us the fine passages from ancient or modern literature
and show us why they are fine, or he would tell us about the great facts and discoveries in
astronomy, geology, botany, chemistry, and the great problems in philosophy, helping us toward
a higher conception of the laws which govern the world and of "the law behind the law." He
was so sympathetic that the enthusiasm of youth seemed to kindle his own. He spoke out of the
fullness of his heart, and explained more eloquently than ever where his own difficulties lay,
and what he, as an old man, thought was the true mainspring of human life and action; and

  "How much of act at human hands
  The sense of human will demands
  By which we dare to live or die."

The truth is that real genius, unless made shallow by prejudice, is seldom frozen by age, and
that, until absolute physical decay sets in, the powers of the mind may become stronger and
stronger.

On one of these June mornings, Miss L--, who was a stranger to us, but whose brother we had
known for some time, called upon us. My father took her over the bridge to the summerhouse
looking on the Down. After a little while he said: "Miss L--, my son says I am to read to you,"
and added, "I will read whatever you like." He read some of "Maud," "The Spinster's Sweet-Arts,"
and some "Enoch Arden."

His voice, as Miss L-- noticed, was melodious and full of change, and quite unimpaired by age.
There was a peculiar freshness and passion in his reading of "Maud," giving the impression
that he had just written the poem, and that the emotion which created it was fresh in him.
This had an extraordinary influence on the listener, who felt that the reader had been present
at the scenes he described, and that he still felt their bliss or agony.

He thoroughly enjoyed reading his "The Spinster's Sweet-Arts," and when he was reading "Enoch
Arden" he told Miss L-- to listen to the sound of the sea in the line,

  "The league-long roller thundering on the reef,"

and to mark Miriam Lane's chatter in

  "He ceased; and Miriam Lane
  Made such a voluble answer promising all."

NOTES ON SPEECH-MAKING

From "Notes on Speech-Making," with the permission of Longmans, Green and Company, New York
and London, publishers.

BY BRANDER MATTHEWS

We are told that the five-minute speeches with which Judge Hoar year after year delighted the
Harvard chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa contained but one original idea, clearly stated, and
but one fresh story, well told. This is indeed a model to be admired of all men; yet how few
of us will take the trouble of copying it!

The speaker who rambles and ambles along, saying nothing, and his fellow, the speaker who links
jest to jest, saying little more, are both of them unabashed in the presence of an audience.
They are devoid of all shyness. They are well aware that they have "the gift of the gab"; they
rejoice in its possession; they lie in wait for occasions to display it. They have helped to
give foreigners the impression that every American is an oratorical revolver, ready with a
few remarks whenever any chairman may choose to pull the trigger. And yet there are Americans
not a few to whom the making of an after-dinner speech is a most painful ordeal. When the public
dinner was given to Charles Dickens in New York, on his first visit to America, Washington
Irving was obviously the predestined presiding officer. Curtis tells us that Irving went about
muttering: "I shall certainly break down; I know I shall break down." When the dinner was eaten,
and Irving arose to propose the health of Dickens, he began pleasantly and smoothly in two
or three sentences; then hesitated, stammered, smiled, and stopped; tried in vain to begin
again; then gracefully gave it up, announced the toast, "Charles Dickens, the guest of the
nation," and sank into his chair amid immense applause, whispering to his neighbor, "There!
I told you I should break down, and I've done it."

When Thackeray came, later, Irving "consented to preside at a dinner, if speeches were absolutely
forbidden; the condition was faithfully observed" (so Curtis records), "but it was the most
extraordinary instance of American self-command on record." Thackeray himself had no fondness
for after-dinner speaking, nor any great skill in the art. He used to complain humorously that
he never could remember all the good things he had thought of in the cab; and in "Philip" he
went so far as to express a hope that "a day will soon arrive (but I own, mind you, that I
do not carve well) when we shall have the speeches done by a skilled waiter at a side table,
as we now have the carving."

Hawthorne was as uncomfortable on his feet as were Thackeray and Irving; but his resolute will
steeled him for the trial. When he dined with the Mayor of Liverpool, he was called upon for
the toast of the United States. "Being at bay, and with no alternative, I got upon my legs
and made a response," he wrote in his notebook, appending this comment: "Anybody may make an
after-dinner speech who will be content to talk onward without saying anything. My speech was
not more than two or three inches long; ... but, being once started, I felt no embarassment,
and went through it as coolly as if I were going to be hanged."

He also notes that his little speech was quite successful, "considering that I did not know
a soul there, except the Mayor himself, and that I am wholly unpracticed in all sorts of oratory,
and that I had nothing to say." To each of these three considerations of Hawthorne's it would
be instructive to add a comment, for he spoke under a triple disadvantage. A speech cannot
really be successful when the speaker has nothing to say. It is rarely successful unless he
knows the tastes and the temper of those he is addressing. It can be successful only casually
unless he has had some practice in the simpler sort of oratory. The forest here was composed
of lodge-pole pines, which on the ridges grew close together, with tall slender trunks, while
in the valleys the growth was more open. Though the sun was behind the mountains, there was
yet plenty of light by which to shoot, but it faded rapidly.

At last, as I was thinking of turning toward camp, I stole up to the crest of one of the ridges,
and looked over into the valley some sixty yards off. Immediately I caught the loom of some
large, dark object; and another glance showed me a big grizzly walking slowly off with his
head down. He was quartering to me, and I fired into his flank, the bullet, as I afterward
found, ranging forward and piercing one lung. At the shot he uttered a loud, moaning grunt
and plunged forward at a heavy gallop, while I raced obliquely down the hill to cut him off.
After going a few hundred feet, he reached a laurel thicket, some thirty yards broad, and two
or three times as long, which he did not leave. I ran up to the edge and there halted, not
liking to venture into the mass of twisted, close-growing stems and glossy foliage. Moreover,
as I halted, I heard him utter a peculiar, savage kind of whine from the heart of the brush.
Accordingly, I began to skirt the edge, standing on tiptoe and gazing earnestly to see if I
could not catch a glimpse of his hide. When I was at the narrowest part of the thicket, he
suddenly left it directly opposite, and then wheeled and stood broadside to me on the hillside,
a little above. He turned his head stiffly toward me; scarlet strings of froth hung from his
lips; his eyes burned like embers in the gloom.

I held true, aiming at the shoulder, and my bullet shattered the point or lower end of his
heart, taking out a big nick. Instantly the great bear turned with a harsh roar of fury and
challenge, blowing the bloody foam from his mouth, so that I saw the gleam of his white fangs;
and then he charged straight at me, crashing and bounding through the laurel bushes, so that
it was hard to aim. I waited till he came to a fallen tree, raking him as he topped it with
a ball, which entered his chest and went through the cavity of his body, but he neither swerved
nor flinched, and at the moment I did not know that I had struck him. He came steadily on,
and in another second was almost upon me. I fired for his forehead, but my bullet went low,
entering his open mouth, smashing his lower jaw and going into the neck. I leaped to one side
almost as I pulled the trigger; and through the hanging smoke the first thing I saw was his
paw as he made a vicious side blow at me. The rush of his charge carried him past. As he struck
he lurched forward, leaving a pool of bright blood where his muzzle hit the ground; but he
recovered himself and made two or three jumps onward, while I hurriedly jammed a couple of
cartridges into the magazine, my rifle holding only four, all of which I had fired. Then he
tried to pull up, but as he did so his muscles seemed suddenly to give way, his head dropped,
and he rolled over and over like a shot rabbit. Each of my first three bullets had inflicted
a mortal wound.

It was already twilight, and I merely opened the carcass, and then trotted back to camp. Next
morning I returned and with much labor took off the skin. The fur was very fine, the animal
being in excellent trim, and unusually bright colored. Unfortunately, in packing it out I lost
the skull, and had to supply its place with one of plaster. The beauty of the trophy, and the
memory of the circumstances under which I produced it, make me value it perhaps more highly
than any other in my house. Each country was to bring the name of its great jurist to be inscribed
on the side of the column, with a sentence stating what he and his country through him had
done toward establishing the reign of law and justice for the benefit of mankind.

I have sometimes fancied that we might erect here in the capital of the country a column to
American Liberty which alone might rival in height the beautiful and simple shaft which we
have erected to the fame of the Father of the Country. I can fancy each generation bringing
its inscription, which should recite its own contribution to the great structure of which the
column should be but the symbol.

The generation of the Puritan and the Pilgrim and the Huguenot claims the place of honor at
the base. "I brought the torch of freedom across the sea. I cleared the forest. I subdued the
savage and the wild beast. I laid in Christian liberty and law the foundations of empire."

The next generation says: "What my fathers founded I builded. I left the seashore to penetrate
the wilderness. I planted schools and colleges and churches."

Then comes the generation of the great colonial day: "I stood by the side of England on many
a hard-fought field. I helped humble the power of France."

Then comes the generation of the revolutionary time: "I encountered the power of England. I
declared and won the independence of my country. I placed that declaration on the eternal principles
of justice and righteousness which all mankind have read, and on which all mankind will one
day stand. I affirmed the dignity of human nature and the right of the people to govern themselves."

The next generation says: "I encountered England again. I vindicated the right of an American
ship to sail the seas the wide world over without molestation. I made the American sailor as
safe at the ends of the earth as my fathers had made the American farmer safe in his home."

Then comes the next generation: "I did the mighty deeds which in your younger years you saw
and which your fathers told. I saved the Union. I freed the slave. I made of every slave a
freeman, and of every freeman a citizen, and of every citizen a voter."

Then comes another who did the great work in peace, in which so many of you had an honorable
share: "I kept the faith. I paid the debt. I brought in conciliation and peace instead of war.
I built up our vast domestic commerce. I made my country the richest, freest, strongest, happiest
people on the face of the earth."

And now what have we to say? What have we to say? Are we to have a place in that honorable
company? Must we engrave on that column: "We repealed the Declaration of Independence. We changed
the Munroe Doctrine from a doctrine of eternal righteousness and justice, resting on the consent
of the governed, to a doctrine of brutal selfishness, looking only to our own advantage. We
crushed the only republic in Asia. We made war on the only Christian people in the East. We
converted a war of glory into a war of shame. We vulgarized the American flag. We introduced
perfidy into the practice of war. We inflicted torture on unarmed men to extort confession.
We put children to death. We established reconcentrado camps. We devastated provinces. We baffled
the aspirations of a people for liberty"?

No, Mr. President. Never! Never! Other and better counsels will yet prevail. The hours are
long in the life of a great people. The irrevocable step is not yet taken.

Let us at least have this to say: "We, too, have kept the faith of the fathers. We took Cuba
by the hand. We delivered her from her age-long bondage. We welcomed her to the family of nations.
We set mankind an example never beheld before of moderation in victory. We led hesitating and
halting Europe to the deliverance of their beleaguered ambassadors in China. We marched through
a hostile country--a country cruel and barbarous--without anger or revenge. We returned benefit
for injury, and pity for cruelty. We made the name of America beloved in the East as in the
West. We kept faith with the Philippine people. We kept faith with our own history. We kept
our national honor unsullied. The flag which we received without a rent we handed down without
a stain."

SPEECH OF WILLIAM MCKINLEY

I do not know why in the year 1899 this Republic has unexpectedly had placed before it mighty
problems which it must face and meet. They have come and are here, and they could not be kept
away. We have fought a war with Spain.

The Philippines, like Cuba and Porto Rico, were intrusted to our hands by the war, and to that
great trust, under the Providence of God and in the name of human progress and civilization,
we are committed. It is a trust we have not sought; it is a trust from which we will not flinch.
The American people will hold up the hands of their servants at home to whom they commit its
execution, while Dewey and Otis and the brave men whom they command will have the support of
the country in upholding our flag where it now floats, the symbol and assurance of liberty
and justice.

There is universal agreement that the Philippines shall not be turned back to Spain. No true
American consents to that. Even if unwilling to accept them ourselves, it would have been a
weak evasion of manly duty to require Spain to transfer them to some other power or powers,
and thus shirk our own responsibility. Even if we had had, as we did not have, the power to
compel such a transfer, it could not have been made without the most serious international
complications. Such a course could not be thought of. And yet had we refused to accept the
cession of them, we should have had no power over them even for their own good.

