But many ingenious machinists have pondered long over the problem, and several clever contrivances
have been invented with a view to its solution. It may scarcely be necessary to say that the
best manufacturers of sewing machines have conducted experiments with the same object in view,
and the result has always been a return to the shuttle, with its steel bobbins.

Why is this, and how is it that a very big shuttle cannot be used, large enough, indeed, to
accommodate any bobbin within itself? The answer is very simple. It has been done over and
over again.

Since the whole bulk of the under thread must pass through the loop of the upper one, it, is
quite clear that the size of that loop must be proportioned to the bulk of the shuttle. Thus,
a small shuttle would, perhaps, be covered by an inch of thread, while our supposed mammoth
shuttle might require ten times that amount. Now, let us consider that to sew an inch of thread
into lock stitches frequently involves its being drawn up and down through both needle and
fabric twenty times. This means considerable chafing, and possible injury to the thread.

But if we were to sanction the use of capacious shuttles, ten inches of thread must undergo
this chafing and seesaw treatment, and under the above conditions every part of the ten inches
must pass up and down two hundred times--treatment that might reasonably be expected to leave
little "life" in the thread. But in spite of this tremendous drawback, there are machines offered
for sale made with such shuttles.

For reasons that I have now pointed out, it is quite clear that a large shuttle or bobbin is
by no means an unmixed advantage. Indeed, the very best makers of sewing machines have always
striven to keep down the bulk of the shuttle, and in those splendid machines shown here to-night
the use of the small shuttles is conspicuous. It may be contended that small bobbins frequently
require refilling, which is quite true, but the saving of the thread effected thereby, not
to mention that of the machine itself, amply compensates for the use of small shuttles. Apart
from this, however, it is no longer necessary to wind bobbins at all. Dewhurst & Sons, of Skipton,
and Clark & Co., of Paisley, have produced ready wound "cops" or bobbins of thread for placing
direct into shuttles. Thus no winding of bobbins is necessary, and indeed the bobbins themselves
are dispensed with. I believe that the slightly increased cost of the thread thus wound is
the only present bar to the extensive introduction of ready wound "cops."

Of Thread Controllers.--One of the earliest difficulties encountered by the maker of a sewing
machine was that of effectually controlling the loose thread after it had been cast off the
shuttle. In some machines this slack thread amounts to six, in others to one or two inches.
Howe got over the difficulty by passing his thread, on its way to the needle, over the upper
extremity of the needle bar--the ascent of the bar, then, sufficed to pull up the slack. Singer
improved upon this by furnishing his machine with a spring take-up lever, partially controlled
by the needle bar.

Wilson, in the Wheeler-Wilson machine, had neither of those arrangements, but depended upon
the succeeding revolution of the hook to draw up the slack of the preceding stitch. These devices
were all far from perfect in their operation, chiefly because they commenced to act too soon.
In each case the pulling up commenced with the rise of the needle, and the tightening operation
subjected the thread to all the friction of rubbing its way through both needle eye and fabric.
Now, an ideal take-up should not commence to act until the needle has ascended above the fabric,
and one of the most important steps toward perfection in sewing machines was undoubtedly attained
when such a device was actually invented. In effecting this, the means employed consists of
a differential or variable cam, rotating with the main shaft. This controls the movements of
a lever called the take-up, pivoted to the machine (Fig. 4). Not only has it been possible
by these means to control the tightening of the stitch, but the paying out of the thread for
enveloping the shuttle also, and both the paying out and pulling up are actually effected after
the needle has ascended above the cloth. The introduction of the positive take-up, the first
forms of which appeared in 1872, not only simplifies the movements of the shuttle or hook,
but for the first time renders the making of the lock stitch possible, while the needle has
a direct up and down motion. Thus, we find that in most of the swiftest sewing machines, the
needle bar is actuated by a simple crank pin or eccentric, there being no loop dip or pause
in its motion.

The diagram shows a positive take-up in three positions--at the commencement of the needle's
descent, during the detention of the loop by the beak, and during the casting off of the loop.
The dotted lines indicate the path of the cam to produce these positions. The intermittent
movements of the take-up have thus led to the abandonment of variable motions in both needle
and shuttle, and particularly so in oscillating shuttle machines.

Wheeler & Wilson's Variable Motion.--But while the simple and direct movement is now preferred
for shuttles, both oscillating and rotary, the revolving hooks of Wheeler & Wilson are provided
with a differential motion, and the way it is effected appears sufficiently interesting to
call for a short description. When the rotating hook has seized the loop of thread, it makes
half a revolution with great rapidity; its speed then slackens, and becomes very slow for the
remaining half a revolution. In the first machines introduced, this was effected by means of
a revolving disk, having slots in which worked pins attached to the main shaft and hook shaft
respectively.

In the later and more improved machines, the variable device is much simplified (Fig. 5). The
main shaft, leading to the rotating hook, is separated into two portions, the axis of one portion
being placed above that of the other. A crank pin is attached to each, and these pins are connected
together by a simple link. An examination of the device itself shows that, while the motion
of the main shaft portion is uniform, that of the hook shaft is alternately accelerated and
retarded.

The picture on the screen gives a general view of the No. 10 D machine, in which these motions
are embodied, and showing the position of the positive take-up affected by those motions, a
position which is preferred for very high speeds in this machine, especially for threads possessing
little elasticity.

Motions of the Feeder.--The speed attained by the fastest sewing machines is due more to the
reduction and simplification of the movements than to any other improvement. Heavy concessions
and reactions have been replaced by direct motions, and cams have been excluded as much as
possible. Mr. A.B. Wilson's famous invention of the four motion feeder depended upon both gravity
and a reacting spring for two motions. Singer improved upon it by making three of the motions
positive, a spring being used for the drop. But a really positive four motion feeder was long
sought by inventors.

Hitherto the reaction of the feeder--that is, its descent and recession--was generally attained
by means of a spring. The drop and ascent are now effected by means of a separate eccentric
in Singer's machine. Uncertainty of action in the feed, once a cause of much inconvenience,
may now be said to be overcome. A peculiarity of the four motion feeder in Wheeler & Wilson's
machine is an arrangement enabling the operator to feed in either direction at will.

