First, truly, I note, not only in these [Greek text], poet-haters, but in all that kind of
people who seek a praise by dispraising others, that they do prodigally spend a great many
wandering words in quips and scoffs, carping and taunting at each thing, which, by stirring
the spleen, may stay the brain from a thorough beholding, the worthiness of the subject.  Those
kind of objections, as they are full of a very idle uneasiness (since there is nothing of so
sacred a majesty, but that an itching tongue may rub itself upon it), so deserve they no other
answer, but, instead of laughing at the jest, to laugh at the jester.  We know a playing wit
can praise the discretion of an ass, the comfortableness of being in debt, and the jolly commodities
of being sick of the plague; so, of the contrary side, if we will turn Ovid's verse,

"Ut lateat virtus proximitate mali."

"That good lies hid in nearness of the evil," Agrippa will be as merry in the showing the Vanity
of Science, as Erasmus was in the commending of Folly; {60} neither shall any man or matter
escape some touch of these smiling railers.  But for Erasmus and Agrippa, they had another
foundation than the superficial part would promise. Marry, these other pleasant fault-finders,
who will correct the verb before they understand the noun, and confute others' knowledge before
they confirm their own; I would have them only remember, that scoffing cometh not of wisdom;
so as the best title in true English they get with their merriments, is to be called good fools;
for so have our grave forefathers ever termed that humorous kind of jesters.

But that which giveth greatest scope to their scorning humour, is rhyming and versing. {61}
It is already said, and, as I think, truly said, it is not rhyming and versing that maketh
poesy; one may be a poet without versing, and a versifier without poetry.  But yet, presuppose
it were inseparable, as indeed, it seemeth Scaliger judgeth truly, it were an inseparable commendation;
for if "oratio" next to "ratio," speech next to reason, be the greatest gift bestowed upon
mortality, that cannot be praiseless which doth most polish that blessing of speech; which
considereth each word, not only as a man may say by his forcible quality, but by his best measured
quantity; carrying even in themselves a harmony; without, perchance, number, measure, order,
proportion be in our time grown odious.

But lay aside the just praise it hath, by being the only fit speech for music--music, I say,
the most divine striker of the senses; thus much is undoubtedly true, that if reading be foolish
without remembering, memory being the only treasure of knowledge, those words which are fittest
for memory, are likewise most convenient for knowledge.  Now, that verse far exceedeth prose
in the knitting up of the memory, the reason is manifest:  the words, besides their delight,
which hath a great affinity to memory, being so set as one cannot be lost, but the whole work
fails:  which accusing itself, calleth the remembrance back to itself, and so most strongly
confirmeth it.  Besides, one word so, as it were, begetting another, as, be it in rhyme or
measured verse, by the former a man shall have a near guess to the follower.  Lastly, even
they that have taught the art of memory, have showed nothing so apt for it as a certain room
divided into many places, well and thoroughly known; now that hath the verse in effect perfectly,
every word having his natural seat, which seat must needs make the word remembered.  But what
needs more in a thing so known to all men?  Who is it that ever was a scholar that doth not
carry away some verses of Virgil, Horace, or Cato, which in his youth he learned, and even
to his old age serve him for hourly lessons? as,

"Percontatorem fugito:  nam garrulus idem est. Dum sibi quisque placet credula turba sumus." {62}

But the fitness it hath for memory is notably proved by all delivery of arts, wherein, for
the most part, from grammar to logic, mathematics, physic, and the rest, the rules chiefly
necessary to be borne away are compiled in verses.  So that verse being in itself sweet and
orderly, and being best for memory, the only handle of knowledge, it must be in jest that any
man can speak against it.

Now {63} then go we to the most important imputations laid to the poor poets; for aught I can
yet learn, they are these.

First, that there being many other more fruitful knowledges, a man might better spend his time
in them than in this.

Secondly, that it is the mother of lies.

Thirdly, that it is the nurse of abuse, infecting us with many pestilent desires, with a syren
sweetness, drawing the mind to the serpent's tail of sinful fancies; and herein, especially,
comedies give the largest field to ear, as Chaucer saith; how, both in other nations and ours,
before poets did soften us, we were full of courage, given to martial exercises, the pillars
of manlike liberty, and not lulled asleep in shady idleness with poets' pastimes.

And lastly and chiefly, they cry out with open mouth, as if they had overshot Robin Hood, that
Plato banished them out of his commonwealth.  Truly this is much, if there be much truth in it.

First, {64} to the first, that a man might better spend his time, is a reason indeed; but it
doth, as they say, but "petere principium." {65}  For if it be, as I affirm, that no learning
is so good as that which teacheth and moveth to virtue, and that none can both teach and move
thereto so much as poesy, then is the conclusion manifest, that ink and paper cannot be to
a more profitable purpose employed. And certainly, though a man should grant their first assumption,
it should follow, methinks, very unwillingly, that good is not good because better is better.
But I still and utterly deny that there is sprung out of earth a more fruitful knowledge.

To {66} the second, therefore, that they should be the principal liars, I answer paradoxically,
but truly, I think truly, that of all writers under the sun, the poet is the least liar; and
though he would, as a poet, can scarcely be a liar.  The astronomer, with his cousin the geometrician,
can hardly escape when they take upon them to measure the height of the stars.  How often,
think you, do the physicians lie, when they aver things good for sicknesses, which afterwards
send Charon a great number of souls drowned in a potion before they come to his ferry.  And
no less of the rest which take upon them to affirm.  Now for the poet, he nothing affirmeth,
and therefore never lieth; for, as I take it, to lie is to affirm that to be true which is
false:  so as the other artists, and especially the historian, affirmeth many things, can,
in the cloudy knowledge of mankind, hardly escape from many lies:  but the poet, as I said
before, never affirmeth; the poet never maketh any circles about your imagination, to conjure
you to believe for true what he writeth:  he citeth not authorities of other histories, but
even for his entry calleth the sweet Muses to inspire into him a good invention; in troth,
not labouring to tell you what is or is not, but what should or should not be.  And, therefore,
though he recount things not true, yet because he telleth them not for true he lieth not; without
we will say that Nathan lied in his speech, before alleged, to David; which, as a wicked man
durst scarce say, so think I none so simple would say, that AEsop lied in the tales of his
beasts; for who thinketh that AEsop wrote it for actually true, were well worthy to have his
name chronicled among the beasts he writeth of.  What child is there that cometh to a play,
and seeing Thebes written in great letters upon an old door, doth believe that it is Thebes?
If then a man can arrive to the child's age, to know that the poet's persons and doings are
but pictures what should be, and not stories what have been, they will never give the lie to
things not affirmatively, but allegorically and figuratively written; and therefore, as in
history, looking for truth, they may go away full fraught with falsehood, so in poesy, looking
but for fiction, they shall use the narration but as an imaginative ground-plot of a profitable
invention.

But hereto is replied, that the poets give names to men they write of, which argueth a conceit
of an actual truth, and so, not being true, proveth a falsehood.  And doth the lawyer lie then,
when, under the names of John of the Stile, and John of the Nokes, he putteth his case?  But
that is easily answered, their naming of men is but to make their picture the more lively,
and not to build any history.  Painting men, they cannot leave men nameless; we see we cannot
play at chess but that we must give names to our chess-men: and yet, methinks, he were a very
partial champion of truth that would say we lied for giving a piece of wood the reverend title
of a bishop.  The poet nameth Cyrus and AEneas no other way than to show what men of their
fames, fortunes, and estates should do.

Their {67} third is, how much it abuseth men's wit, training it to a wanton sinfulness and
lustful love.  For, indeed, that is the principal if not only abuse I can hear alleged.  They
say the comedies rather teach, than reprehend, amorous conceits; they say the lyric is larded
with passionate sonnets; the elegiac weeps the want of his mistress; and that even to the heroical
Cupid hath ambitiously climbed.  Alas! Love, I would thou couldst as well defend thyself, as
thou canst offend others!  I would those on whom thou dost attend, could either put thee away
or yield good reason why they keep thee!  But grant love of beauty to be a beastly fault, although
it be very hard, since only man, and no beast, hath that gift to discern beauty; grant that
lovely name of love to deserve all hateful reproaches, although even some of my masters the
philosophers spent a good deal of their lamp-oil in setting forth the excellency of it; grant,
I say, what they will have granted, that not only love, but lust, but vanity, but, if they
list, scurrility, possess many leaves of the poets' books; yet, think I, when this is granted,
they will find their sentence may, with good manners, put the last words foremost; and not
say that poetry abuseth man's wit, but that man's wit abuseth poetry.  For I will not deny
but that man's wit may make poesy, which should be [Greek text], which some learned have defined,
figuring forth good things, to be [Greek text], which doth contrariwise infect the fancy with
unworthy objects; as the painter, who should give to the eye either some excellent perspective,
or some fine picture fit for building or fortification, or containing in it some notable example,
as Abraham sacrificing his son Isaac, Judith killing Holofernes, David fighting with Goliath,
may leave those, and please an ill-pleased eye with wanton shows of better-hidden matters.

But, what! shall the abuse of a thing make the right use odious? Nay, truly, though I yield
that poesy may not only be abused, but that being abused, by the reason of his sweet charming
force, it can do more hurt than any other army of words, yet shall it be so far from concluding,
that the abuse shall give reproach to the abused, that, contrariwise, it is a good reason,
that whatsoever being abused, doth most harm, being rightly used (and upon the right use each
thing receives his title) doth most good.  Do we not see skill of physic, the best rampire
{68} to our often-assaulted bodies, being abused, teach poison, the most violent destroyer?
Doth not knowledge of law, whose end is to even and right all things, being abused, grow the
crooked fosterer of horrible injuries?  Doth not (to go in the highest) God's word abused breed
heresy, and His name abused become blasphemy?  Truly, a needle cannot do much hurt, and as
truly (with leave of ladies be it spoken) it cannot do much good. With a sword thou mayest
kill thy father, and with a sword thou mayest defend thy prince and country; so that, as in
their calling poets fathers of lies, they said nothing, so in this their argument of abuse,
they prove the commendation.

They allege herewith, that before poets began to be in price, our nation had set their heart's
delight upon action, and not imagination; rather doing things worthy to be written, than writing
things fit to be done.  What that before time was, I think scarcely Sphynx can tell; since
no memory is so ancient that gives not the precedence to poetry.  And certain it is, that,
in our plainest homeliness, yet never was the Albion nation without poetry.  Marry, this argument,
though it be levelled against poetry, yet it is indeed a chain-shot against all learning or
bookishness, as they commonly term it.  Of such mind were certain Goths, of whom it is written,
that having in the spoil of a famous city taken a fair library, one hangman, belike fit to
execute the fruits of their wits, who had murdered a great number of bodies, would have set
fire in it.  "No," said another, very gravely, "take heed what you do, for while they are busy
about those toys, we shall with more leisure conquer their countries."  This, indeed, is the
ordinary doctrine of ignorance, and many words sometimes I have heard spent in it; but because
this reason is generally against all learning as well as poetry, or rather all learning but
poetry; because it were too large a digression to handle it, or at least too superfluous, since
it is manifest that all government of action is to be gotten by knowledge, and knowledge best
by gathering many knowledges, which is reading,; I only say with Horace, to him that is of
that opinion,

"Jubeo stultum esse libenter--" {69}

for as for poetry itself, it is the freest from this, objection, for poetry is the companion
of camps.  I dare undertake, Orlando Furioso, or honest King Arthur, will never displease a
soldier:  but the quiddity of "ens" and "prima materia" will hardly agree with a corslet. 
And, therefore, as I said in the beginning, even Turks and Tartars are delighted with poets.
Homer, a Greek, flourished before Greece flourished; and if to a slight conjecture a conjecture
may be opposed, truly it may seem, that as by him their learned men took almost their first
light of knowledge, so their active men receive their first notions of courage.  Only Alexander's
example may serve, who by Plutarch is accounted of such virtue that fortune was not his guide
but his footstool; whose acts speak for him, though Plutarch did not; indeed, the phoenix of
warlike princes.  This Alexander left his schoolmaster, living Aristotle, behind him, but took
dead Homer with him.  He put the philosopher Callisthenes to death, for his seeming philosophical,
indeed mutinous, stubbornness; but the chief thing he was ever heard to wish for was that Homer
had been alive.  He well found he received more bravery of mind by the pattern of Achilles,
than by hearing the definition of fortitude. And, therefore, if Cato misliked Fulvius for carrying
Ennius with him to the field, it may be answered that if Cato misliked it the noble Fulvius
liked it, or else he had not done it; for it was not the excellent Cato Uticensis whose authority
I would much more have reverenced, but it was the former, in truth a bitter punisher of faults,
but else a man that had never sacrificed to the Graces.  He misliked, and cried out against,
all Greek learning, and yet, being fourscore years old, began to learn it, belike fearing that
Pluto understood not Latin.  Indeed, the Roman laws allowed no person to be carried to the
wars but he that was in the soldiers' roll.  And, therefore, though Cato misliked his unmustered
person, he misliked not his work.  And if he had, Scipio Nasica (judged by common consent the
best Roman) loved him:  both the other Scipio brothers, who had by their virtues no less surnames
than of Asia and Afric, so loved him that they caused his body to be buried in their sepulture.
So, as Cato's authority being but against his person, and that answered with so far greater
than himself, is herein of no validity.

But {70} now, indeed, my burthen is great, that Plato's name is laid upon me, whom, I must
confess, of all philosophers I have ever esteemed most worthy of reverence; and with good reason,
since of all philosophers he is the most poetical; yet if he will defile the fountain out of
which his flowing streams have proceeded, let us boldly examine with what reason he did it.

First, truly, a man might maliciously object that Plato, being a philosopher, was a natural
enemy of poets.  For, indeed, after the philosophers had picked out of the sweet mysteries
of poetry the right discerning of true points of knowledge, they forthwith, putting it in method,
and making a school of art of that which the poets did only teach by a divine delightfulness,
beginning to spurn at their guides, like ungrateful apprentices, were not content to set up
shop for themselves, but sought by all means to discredit their masters; which, by the force
of delight being barred them, the less they could overthrow them, the more they hated them.
For, indeed, they found for Homer seven cities strove who should have him for their citizen,
where many cities banished philosophers as not fit members to live among them.  For only repeating
certain of Euripides' verses many Athenians had their lives saved of the Syracusans, where
the Athenians themselves thought many of the philosophers unworthy to live.  Certain poets,
as Simonides and Pindar, had so prevailed with Hiero the First, that of a tyrant they made
him a just king; where Plato could do so little with Dionysius that he himself, of a philosopher,
was made a slave.  But who should do thus, I confess, should requite the objections raised
against poets with like cavillations against philosophers; as likewise one should do that should
bid one read Phaedrus or Symposium in Plato, or the discourse of Love in Plutarch, and see
whether any poet do authorise abominable filthiness as they do.

