Dr. Durand, too, with his spacious and flame-lined gig, accompanied by his son, a lad of sixteen,
awaited our arrival, and served to swell the cavalcade that wound slowly down the dusty road,
with its sandy surface and red-clay substratum. A few young gentlemen on horseback completed
our cortége.

Major Favraud sat holding his ribbons gracefully in one gauntleted hand, while he uncovered
his head with the other, bowing suavely in his knightly fashion, as he said:

"Come drive with me, Miss Harz, for a while, and let the young folks take it together."

"Oh, no, Major Favraud; you must excuse me, indeed! I feel a little languid this morning, and
I should be poor company. Besides, I cannot surrender my position as one of the young folks yet."

"Nay, I have something to say to you--something very earnest. You shall be at no trouble to
entertain me; but you must not refuse a poor, sad fellow a word of counsel and cheer. I shall
think hard of you if you decline to let me drive you a little way. Besides, the freshness of
the morning is all lost on you there. Now, set Marion a good example, and she will, in turn,
enliven me later."

So adjured, I consented to drive to the Fifteen-mile House with Major Favraud, and Duganne
glided into the coach in my stead, to take my place and play vis-à-vis to Sylphy, who, as usual,
was selected as traveling-companion on this occasion, "to take kear of de young ladies."

"I am so glad I have you all to myself once more, Miss Harz! I feel now that we are fast friends
again. And I wanted to tell you, while I could speak of her, how much my poor wife liked you.
(The time will come when I must not, dare not, you know.) But for circumstances, she would
have urged you to become our guest, or even in-dweller; but you know how it all was! I need
not feign any longer, nor apologize either."

"It must have been that she saw how lovely and spirituelle I found her," I said, "and could
not bear to be outdone in consideration, nor to owe a debt of social gratitude. She knew so
little of me. But these affinities are electric sometimes, I must believe."

"Yes, there is more of that sort of thing on earth, perhaps, 'than is dreamed of in our philosophy'--antagonism
and attraction are always going on among us unconsciously."

"I am inclined to believe so from my own experience," I replied, vaguely, thinking, Heaven
knows, of any thing at the moment rather than of him who sat beside me.

"Your mind is on Wentworth, I perceive," he said, softly; after a short pause, "now give up
your dream for a little while and listen to this sober reality--sober to-day, at least," he
added, with a light laugh. "By-the-way, talking of magnetism, do you know, Miss Harz, I think
you are the most universally magnetic woman I ever saw? All the men fall in love with you,
and the women don't hate you for it, either."

"How perfectly the last assertion disproves the first!" I replied; "but I retract, I will not,
even for the sake of a syllogism, abuse my own sex; women are never envious except when men
make them so, by casting down among them the golden apple of admiration."

"I know one man, at least, who never foments discord in this way! Wentworth, from the beginning,
had eyes and ears for no one but yourself, yet I never dreamed the drama would be enacted so
speedily; I own I was as much in the dark as anybody."

I could not reply to this badinage, as in happier moments I might have done, but said, digressively:

"By-the-by, while I think of it, I must put down on my tablet the order of Mr. Vernon. He wants
'Longfellow's Poems,' if for sale in Savannah. He has been permeating his brain with the 'Psalms
of Life,' that have come out singly in the Knickerbocker Magazine, until he craves every thing
that pure and noble mind has thrown forth in the shape of a song."

And I scribbled in my memorandum-book, for a moment, while Major Favraud mused.

"Longfellow!" he said, at last, "Phoebus, what a name!" adding affectedly, "yet it seems to
me, on reflection, I have heard it before. He is a Yankee, of course! Now, do you earnestly
believe a native of New England, by descent a legitimate witch-burner, you know, can be any
thing better than a poll-parrot in the poetical line?"

"Have we not proof to the contrary, Major Favraud?"

"What proof? Metre and rhyme, I grant you--long and short--but show me the afflatus! They make
verse with a penknife, like their wooden nutmegs. They are perfect Chinese for ingenuity and
imitation, and the resemblance to the real Simon-pure is very perfect--externally. But when
it comes to grating the nut for negus, we miss the aroma!"

"Do you pretend that Bryant is not a poet in the grain, and that the wondrous boy, Willis,
was not also 'to the manner born?' Read 'Thanatopsis,' or are you acquainted with it already?
I hardly think you can be. Read those scriptural poems."

"A very smooth school-exercise the first, no more. There is not a heart-beat in the whole grind.
As to Willie--he failed egregiously, when he attempted to 'gild refined gold and paint the
lily,' as he did in his so-called 'Sacred Poems.' He can spin a yarn pretty well, and coin
a new word for a make-shift, amusingly, but save me from the foil-glitter of his poetry."[1]

"This is surprising! You upset all precedent. I really wish you had not said these things.
I now begin to see the truth of what my copy-book told me long ago, that 'evil association
corrupts good manners,' or I will vary it and substitute 'opinions.' I must eschew your society,
in a literary way, I must indeed, Major Favraud."

"Now comes along this strolling Longfellow minstrel," he continued, ignoring or not hearing
my remark, "with his dreary hurdy-gurdy to cap the climax. Heavens! what a nasal twang the
whole thing has to me. Not an original or cheerful note! 'Old Hundred' is joyful in comparison!"

"You shall not say that," I interrupted; "you shall not dare to say that in my presence. It
is sheer slander, that you have caught up from some malignant British review, and, like all
other serpents, you are venomous in proportion to your blindness! I am vexed with you, that
you will not see with the clear, discerning eyes God gave you originally."

"But I do see with them, and very discerningly, notwithstanding your comparison. Now there
is that 'Skeleton in Armor,' his last effusion, I believe, that you are all making such a work
over--fine-sounding thing enough, I grant you, ingenious rhyme, and all that. But I know where
the framework came from! Old Drayton furnished that in his 'Battle of Agincourt.'" Then in
a clear, sonorous voice, he gave some specimens of each, so as to point the resemblance, real
or imaginary.

"You are content with mere externs in finding your similitudes, Major Favraud! In power of
thought, beauty of expression, what comparison is there? Drayton's verse is poor and vapid,
even mean, beside Longfellow's."

"I grant you that. I have never for one moment disputed the ability of those Yankees. Their
manufacturing talents are above all praise, but when it comes to the 'God-fire,' as an old
German teacher of mine used to say, our simple Southern poets leave them all behind--'Beat
them all hollow,' would be their own expression. You gee, Miss Harz, that Cavalier blood of
ours, that inspired the old English bards, will tell, in spite of circumstances."

"But genius is of no rank--no blood--no clime! What court poet of his day, Major Favraud, compared
with Robert Burns for feeling, fire, and pathos? Who ever sung such siren strains as Moore,
a simple Irishman of low degree? No Cavalier blood there, I fancy! What power, what beauty
in the poems of Walter Scott! Byron was a poet in spite of his condition, not because of it.
Hear Barry Cornwall--how he stirs the blood I What trumpet like to Campbell I What mortal voice
like to Shelley's? the hybrid angel! What full orchestra surpassed Coleridge for harmony and
brilliancy of effect? Who paints panoramas like Southey? Who charms like Wordsworth? Yet these
were men of medium condition, all--I hate the conceits of Cowley, Waller, Sir John Suckling,
Carew, and the like. All of your Cavalier type, I believe, a set of hollow pretenders mostly."

"All this is overwhelming, I grant," bowing deferentially. "But I return to my first idea,
that Puritan blood was not exactly fit to engender genius; and that in the rich, careless Southern
nature there lurks a vein of undeveloped song that shall yet exonerate America from the charge
of poverty of genius, brought by the haughty Briton! Yes, we will sing yet a mightier strain
than has ever been poured since the time of Shakespeare! and in that good time coming weave
a grander heroic poem than any since the days of Homer! Then men's souls shall have been tried
in the furnace of affliction, and Greek meets not Greek, but Yankee. For we Southerners only
bide our time!"

And he cut his spirited lead-horse, until it leaped forward suddenly, as though to vent his
excitement, and, setting his email white teeth sternly, with an eye like a burning coal, looked
forward into space, his whole face contracting.

"The Southern lyre has been but lightly swept so far, Miss Harz," he continued, a moment later,
"and only by the fingers of love; we need Bellona to give tone to our orchestra."

I could not forbear reciting somewhat derisively the old couplet--

  "'Sound the trumpet, teat the drum,
  Tremble France, we come, we come!'

"Is that the style Major Favraud?" I asked. "I remember the time when I thought these two lines
the most soul-stirring in the language--they seem very bombastic now, in my maturity."

He smiled, and said: "The time is not come for our war-poem, and, as for love, let me give
you one strain of Pinckney's to begin with;" and, without waiting for permission, he recited
the beautiful "Pledge," with which all readers are now familiar, little known then, however,
beyond the limits of the South, and entirely new to me, beginning with--

  "I fill this cup to one made up
    Of loveliness alone,
  A woman of her gentle sex
    The seeming paragon"--

continuing to the end with eloquence and spirit.

"Now, that is poetry, Miss Harz! the real afflatus is there; the bead on the wine; the dew
on the rose; the bloom on the grape! Nothing wanting that constitutes the indefinable divine
thing called genius! You understand my idea, of course; explanations are superfluous."

I assented mutely, scarce knowing why I did so.

"Now, hear another." And the woods rang with his clear, sonorous accents as he declaimed, a
little too scanningly, perhaps--too much like an enthusiastic boy:

  "Love lurks upon my lady's lip,
    His bow is figured there;
  Within her eyes his arrows sleep;
    His fetters are--her hair!"

"I call that nothing but a bundle of conceits, Major Favraud, mostly of the days of Charles
II., of Rochester himself--" interrupting him as I in turn was interrupted.

"But hear further," and he proceeded to the end of that marvelous ebullition of foam and fervor,
such as celebrated the birth of Aphrodite herself perchance in the old Greek time; and which,
despite my perverse intentions, stirred me as if I had quaffed a draught of pink champagne.
Is it not, indeed, all couleur de rose? Hear this bit of melody, my reader, sitting in supreme
judgment, and perhaps contempt, on your throne apart:

  "'Upon her cheek the crimson ray
    By changes comes and goes,
  As rosy-hued Aurora's play
    Along the polar snows;
  Gay as the insect-bird that sips
    From scented flowers the dew--
  Pure as the snowy swan that dips
    Its wings in waters blue;
  Sweet thoughts are mirrored on her face,
    Like clouds on the calm sea,
  And every motion is a grace,
    Each word a melody!'"

"Yes, that is true poetry, I acknowledge, Major Favraud," I exclaimed, not at all humbled by
conviction, though a little annoyed at the pointed manner in which he gave (looking in my face
as he did so) these concluding lines:

  "Say from what fair and sunny shore,
    Fair wanderer, dost thou rove,
  Lest what I only should adore
    I heedless think to love?"

"The character of Pinckney's genius," I rejoined, "is, I think, essentially like that of Praed,
the last literary phase with me--for I am geological in my poetry, and take it in strata. But
I am more generous to your Southern bard than you are to our glorious Longfellow! I don't call
that imitation, but coincidence, the oneness of genius! I do not even insinuate plagiarism."
My manner, cool and careless, steadied his own.

"You are right: our 'Shortfellow' was incapable of any thing of the sort. Peace be to his ashes!
With all his nerve and vim, he died of melancholy, I believe. As good an end as any, however,
and certainly highly respectable. But you know what Wordsworth says in his 'School-master'--

  "'If there is one that may bemoan
    His kindred laid in earth,
  The household hearts that were his own,
    It is the man of mirth.'"

He sighed as he concluded his quotation--sighed, and slackened the pace of his flying steeds.
"But give me something of Praed's in return," he said, rallying suddenly; "is there not a pretty
little thing called 'How shall I woo her?'" glancing archly and somewhat impertinently at me,
I thought--or, perhaps, what would simply have amused me in another man and mood shocked me
in him, the recent widower--widowed, too, under such peculiar and awful circumstances! I did
not reflect sufficiently perhaps, on his ignorance of many of these last.

How I deplored his levity, which nothing could overcome or restrain; and yet beneath which
I even then believed lay depths of anguish! How I wished that influence of mine could prevail
to induce him to divide his dual nature, "To throw away the worser part of it, and live the
purer with the better half!" But I could only show disapprobation by the gravity of my silence.

"So you will not give me 'How shall I woo her?' Miss Harz?" a little embarrassed, I perceived,
by my manner. "I have a fancy for the title, nevertheless, not having heard any more, and should
be glad to hear the whole poem. But you are prudish to-day, I fancy."

"No, there is nothing in that poem, certainly, that angels might not hear approvingly; but
it would sadden you, Major Favraud."

"I will take the chance of that," laughing. "Come, the poem, if you care to please your driver,
and reward his care. See how skillfully I avoided that fallen branch--suppose I were to be
spiteful, and upset you against this stump?"

Any thing was preferable to his levity; and, as I had warned him of the possible effect of
the poem he solicited, I could not be accused of want of consideration in reciting it. Besides,
he deserved the lesson, the stern lesson that it taught.

As this could in no way be understood by such of my readers as are unacquainted with this little
gem, I venture to give it here--exquisite, passionate utterance that it is, though little known
to fame, at least at this writing:

  "'How shall I woo her? I will stand
    Beside her when she sings,
  And watch her fine and fairy hand
    Flit o'er the quivering strings!
  But shall I tell her I have heard,
    Though sweet her song may be,
  A voice where every whispered word
    Was more than song to me?

  "'How shall I woo her? I will gaze,
    In sad and silent trance,
  On those blue eyes whose liquid rays
    Look love in every glance.
  But shall I tell her eyes more bright,
    Though bright her own may beam,
  Will fling a deeper spell to-night
  Upon me in my dream?'"

I hesitated. "Let me stop here, Major Favraud, I counsel you," I interpolated, earnestly; but
he only rejoined:

"No, no! proceed, I entreat you! it is very beautiful--very touching, too!" Speaking calmly,
and slacking rein, so that the grating of the wheels among the stems of the scarlet lychnis,
that grew in immense patches on our road, might not disturb his sense of hearing, which, by-the-way,
was exquisitely nice and fastidious.

"As you please, then;" and I continued the recitation.

  "'How shall I woo her? I will try
    The charms of olden time,
  And swear by earth, and sea, and sky,
    And rave in prose and rhyme--
  And I will tell her, when I bent
    My knee in other years,
  I was not half so eloquent;
    I could not speak--for tears!'"

I watched him narrowly; the spell was working now; the poet's hand was sweeping, with a gust
of power, that harp of a thousand strings, the wondrous human heart! And I again pursued, in
suppressed tones of heart-felt emotion, the pathetic strain that he had evoked with an idea
of its frivolity alone:

  "'How shall I woo her? I will bow
    Before the holy shrine,
  And pray the prayer, and vow the vow,
    And press her lips to mine--
  And I will tell her, when she starts
    From passion's thrilling kiss,
  That memory to many hearts
    Is dearer far than bliss!'"

It was reserved for the concluding verse to unnerve him completely; a verse which I rendered
with all the pathos of which I was capable, with a view to its final effect, I confess:

  "'Away! away! the chords are mute,
    The bond is rent in twain;
  You cannot wake the silent lute,
    Or clasp its links again.
  Love's toil, I know, is little cost;
    Love's perjury is light sin;
  But souls that lose what I have lost,
    What have they left to win?'"

"What, indeed?" he exclaimed, impetuously--tears now streaming over his olive cheeks. He flung
the reins to me with a quick, convulsive motion, and covered his face with his hands. Groans
burst from his murmuring lips, and the great deeps of sorrow gave up their secrets. I was sorry
to have so stirred him to the depths by any act or words of mine, and yet I enjoyed the certainty
of his anguish.

I checked the horses beneath a magnolia-tree, and sat quietly waiting for the flood of emotion
to subside as for him to take the initiative. I had no word to say, no consolation to offer.
Nay, after consideration, rather did I glory in his grief, which redeemed his nature in my
estimation, though grieved in turn to have afflicted him. For, in spite of all his faults,
and my earlier prejudices, I loved this impulsive Southron man, as Scott has it, "right brotherly."

At last, looking up grave, tearless, and pale, and resuming his reins without apology for having
surrendered them, he said, abruptly:

"All is so vain! Such mockery now to me! She was the sole reality of this universe to my heart!
I grapple with shadows unceasingly. There is not on the face of this globe a more desolate
wretch. You understand this! You feel for me, you do not deride me! You know how perfect, how
spiritual she was! You loved her well--I saw it in your eyes, your manner--and for that, if
nothing else, you have my heart-felt gratitude. So few appreciated her unearthly purity. Yet,
was it not strange she should have loved a man so gross, so steeped in sensuous, thoughtless
enjoyment--so remote from God as I am--have ever been? But the song speaks for me"--waving
his gauntleted hand--"better than I can speak:

  "'Away! away! the chords are mute,
    The bond is rent in twain.'"

"I shall never marry again--never! Miss Miriam, I know now, and shall know evermore, in all
its fullness, and weariness, and bitterness, the meaning of that terrible word--alone! Eternal
solitude. The Robinson Crusoe of society. A sort of social Daniel Boone. Thus you must ever
consider me. And yet, just think of it, Miss Harz!"

"Oh, but you will not always feel so; there may come a time of reaction." I hesitated. It was
not my purpose to encourage change.

"No, never! never!" he interrupted, passionately; "don't even suggest it--don't! and check
me sternly if ever I forget my grief again in frivolity of any sort in your presence. You are
a noble, sweet woman, with breadth enough of character to make allowances for the shortcomings
of a poor, miserable man like me--trying to cheat himself back into gayety and the interests
of life. I have sisters, but they are not like you. I wish to Heaven they were! There is not
a woman in the world on whom I have any claims--on whose shoulder I can lean my head and take
a hearty cry. And what are men at such a season? Mocking fiends, usually, the best of them!
I shall go abroad, Miss Harz. I am no anchorite. You will hear of me as a gay man of the world,
perhaps; but, as to being happy, that can never be again! The bubble of life has burst, and
my existence falls flat to the earth. Victor Favraud, that airy nothing, is scarcely a 'local
habitation and a name' now!"

"Let him make a name, then," I urged. "With military talents like yours, Major Favraud, the
road to distinction will soon be open to you. Our approaching difficulties with France--"

"Oh, that will all be patched up, or has been, by this time. Van Buren is a crafty but peace-loving
fox! Something of an epicurean, too, in his high estate. What grim old Jackson left half healed,
he will complete the cure of. Ah, Miss Harz, I had hoped to flesh my sword in a nobler cause!"

I knew what he meant. That dream of nullification was still uppermost in his soul--dispersed,
as it was, in the eyes of all reasonable men. I shook my head. "Thank God! all that is over,"
I said, gravely, fervently; "and my prayer to Him is that he may vouchsafe to preserve us for
evermore an unbroken people!"

"May He help Israel when the time comes," he murmured low, "for come it will, Miss Harz, as
surely as there is a sun in the heavens! 'and may I be there to see!' as John Gilpin said,
or some one of him--which was it?"

And, whipping up his lagging steeds as we gained the open road, we emerged swiftly from the
shadows of the forest--between nodding cornfields, already helmed and plumed for the harvest,
and plantations green with thrifty cotton-plants, with their half-formed bolls, promising such
bounteous yield, and meadows covered with the tufted Bermuda grass, with its golden-green verdure,
we sped our way toward Lenoir's Landing.

This peninsula was formed by the junction of two rivers, between which intervened a narrow
point of land, with a background of steep hills, covered with a growth of black-jack and yellow-pine
to the summit. Here was a ferry with its Charon-like boat, of the primitive sort--flat barge,
poled-over by negroes, and capable of containing at one time many bales of cotton, a stagecoach
or wagon with four horses, besides passengers ad libitum.

This ferry constituted the chief source of revenue of Madame Grambeau, an old French lady,
remarkable in many ways. She kept the stage-house hard by, with its neat picketed inclosure,
its overhanging live-oak trees and small trim parterre, gay at this season with various annual
flowers, scarce worth the cultivation, one would think, in that land of gorgeous perennial
bloom. But Queen Margarets, ragged robins, variegated balsams, and tawny marigolds, have their
associations, doubtless, to make them dear and valuable to the foreign heart, to which they
seem essential, wherever a plot of ground be in possession.

