I am not about to enter into the merits of the great tea and coffee controversy, or say whether
these substances are or are not wholesome. I treat of them as actual existences, and speak
only of the modes of making the most of them.

The French coffee is reputed the best in the world; and a thousand voices have asked, What
is it about the French coffee? In the first place, then, the French coffee is coffee, and not
chicory, or rye, or beans, or peas. In the second place, it is freshly roasted, whenever made,--roasted
with great care and evenness in a little revolving cylinder which makes part of the furniture
of every kitchen, and which keeps in the aroma of the berry. It is never overdone, so as to
destroy the coffee flavor, which is in nine cases out of ten the fault of the coffee we meet
with. Then it is ground, and placed in a coffee-pot with a filter, through which it percolates
in clear drops--the coffee-pot standing on a heated stove to maintain the temperature. The
nose of the coffee-pot is stopped up to prevent the escape of the aroma during this process.
The extract thus obtained is a perfectly clear, dark fluid, know as café noir, or black coffee.
It is black only because of its strength, being in fact almost the very essential oil of coffee.
A tablespoonful of this in boiled milk would make what is ordinarily called a strong cup of
coffee. The boiled milk is prepared with no less care. It must be fresh and new, not merely
warmed or even brought to the boiling point, but slowly simmered till it attains a thick, creamy
richness. The coffee mixed with this, and sweetened with that sparkling beet-root sugar which
ornaments a French table, is the celebrated café-au-lait, the name of which has gone round
the world.

As we look to France for the best coffee, so we must look to England for the perfection of
tea. The tea-kettle is as much an English institution as aristocracy or the Prayer Book; and
when one wants to know exactly how tea should be made, one has only to ask how a fine old English
housekeeper makes it.

The first article of her faith is, that the water must not merely be hot, not merely have boiled
a few moments since, but be actually boiling at the moment it touches the tea. Hence, though
servants in England are vastly better trained than with us, this delicate mystery is seldom
left to their hands. Tea making belongs to the drawing-room, and high-born ladies preside at
"the bubbling and loud-hissing urn," and see that all due rites and solemnities are properly
performed,--that the cups are hot, and that the infused tea waits the exact time before the
libations commence. Oh, ye dear old English tea-tables, resorts of the kindest-hearted hospitality
in the world! we still cherish your memory, even though you do not say pleasant things of us
there. One of these days you will think better of us. Of late, the introduction of English
breakfast tea has raised a new sect among the tea drinkers, reversing some of the old canons.
Breakfast tea must be boiled! Unlike the delicate article of olden time, which required only
a momentary infusion to develop its richness, this requires a longer and severer treatment
to bring out its strength,--thus confusing all the established usages, and throwing the work
into the hands of the cook in the kitchen.

The faults of tea, as too commonly found at our hotels and boarding-houses, are that it is
made in every way the reverse of what it should be. The water is hot, perhaps, but not boiling;
the tea has a general flat, stale, smoky taste, devoid of life or spirit; and it is served,
usually, with thin milk instead of cream. Cream is as essential to the richness of tea as of
coffee. We could wish that the English fashion might generally prevail, of giving the traveler
his own kettle of boiling water and his own tea-chest, and letting him make tea for himself.
At all events he would then be sure of one merit in his tea,--it would be hot, a very simple
and obvious virtue, but one very seldom obtained.

Chocolate is a French and Spanish article, and one seldom served on American tables. We in
America, however, make an article every way equal to any which can be imported from Paris,
and he who buys Baker's best vanilla-chocolate may rest assured that no foreign land can furnish
anything better. A very rich and delicious beverage may be made by dissolving this in milk
slowly boiled down after the French fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have now gone over all the ground I laid out, as comprising the great first principles of
cookery; and I would here modestly offer the opinion that a table where all these principles
are carefully observed would need few dainties. The struggle after so-called delicacies comes
from the poorness of common things. Perfect bread and butter would soon drive cake out of the
field; it has done so in many families. Nevertheless, I have a word to say under the head of
Confectionery, meaning by this the whole range of ornamental cookery,--or pastry, ices, jellies,
preserves, etc. The art of making all these very perfectly is far better understood in America
than the art of common cooking.

There are more women who know how to make good cake than good bread,--more who can furnish
you with a good ice-cream than a well-cooked mutton-chop; a fair charlotte-russe is easier
to come by than a perfect cup of coffee; and you shall find a sparkling jelly to your dessert
where you sighed in vain for so simple a luxury as a well-cooked potato.

Our fair countrywomen might rest upon their laurels in these higher fields, and turn their
great energy and ingenuity to the study of essentials. To do common things perfectly is far
better worth our endeavor than to do uncommon things respectably. We Americans in many things
as yet have been a little inclined to begin making our shirt at the ruffle; but nevertheless,
when we set about it, we can make the shirt as nicely as anybody,--it needs only that we turn
our attention to it, resolved that, ruffle or no ruffle, the shirt we will have.

I have also a few words to say as to the prevalent ideas in respect to French cookery. Having
heard much of it, with no very distinct idea what it is, our people have somehow fallen into
the notion that its forte lies in high spicing,--and so, when our cooks put a great abundance
of clove, mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon into their preparations, they fancy that they are growing
up to be French cooks. But the fact is, that the Americans and English are far more given to
spicing than the French. Spices in our made dishes are abundant, and their taste is strongly
pronounced. In living a year in France I forgot the taste of nutmeg, clove, and allspice, which
had met me in so many dishes in America.

The thing may be briefly defined. The English and Americans deal in spices, the French in flavors,--flavors
many and subtile, imitating often in their delicacy those subtile blendings which Nature produces
in high-flavored fruits. The recipes of our cookery-books are most of them of English origin,
coming down from the times of our phlegmatic ancestors, when the solid, burly, beefy growth
of the foggy island required the heat of fiery condiments, and could digest heavy sweets. Witness
the national recipe for plum-pudding, which may be rendered: Take a pound of every indigestible
substance you can think of, boil into a cannon-ball, and serve in flaming brandy. So of the
Christmas mince-pie and many other national dishes. But in America, owing to our brighter skies
and more fervid climate, we have developed an acute, nervous delicacy of temperament far more
akin to that of France than of England.

Half of the recipes in our cook-books are mere murder to such constitutions and stomachs as
we grow here. We require to ponder these things, and think how we in our climate and under
our circumstances ought to live, and, in doing so, we may, without accusation of foreign foppery,
take some leaves from many foreign books.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Christopher has prosed long enough. I must now read this to my wife, and see what she says.

XI

OUR HOUSE

Our gallant Bob Stephens, into whose lifeboat our Marianne has been received, has lately taken
the mania of housebuilding into his head. Bob is somewhat fastidious, difficult to please,
fond of domesticities and individualities; and such a man never can fit himself into a house
built by another, and accordingly housebuilding has always been his favorite mental recreation.
During all his courtship, as much time was taken up in planning a future house as if he had
money to build one; and all Marianne's patterns, and the backs of half their letters, were
scrawled with ground-plans and elevations. But latterly this chronic disposition has been quickened
into an acute form by the falling-in of some few thousands to their domestic treasury,--left
as the sole residuum of a painstaking old aunt, who took it into her head to make a will in
Bob's favor, leaving, among other good things, a nice little bit of land in a rural district
half an hour's railroad ride from Boston.

So now ground-plans thicken, and my wife is being consulted morning, noon, and night; and I
never come into the room without finding their heads close together over a paper, and hearing
Bob expatiate on his favorite idea of a library. He appears to have got so far as this, that
the ceiling is to be of carved oak, with ribs running to a boss overhead, and finished mediævally
with ultramarine blue and gilding,--and then away he goes sketching Gothic patterns of bookshelves
which require only experienced carvers, and the wherewithal to pay them, to be the divinest
things in the world.

Marianne is exercised about china-closets and pantries, and about a bedroom on the ground-floor,--for,
like all other women of our days, she expects not to have strength enough to run upstairs oftener
than once or twice a week; and my wife, who is a native genius in this line, and has planned
in her time dozens of houses for acquaintances, wherein they are at this moment living happily,
goes over every day with her pencil and ruler the work of rearranging the plans, according
as the ideas of the young couple veer and vary.

One day Bob is importuned to give two feet off from his library for a closet in the bedroom,
but resists like a Trojan. The next morning, being mollified by private domestic supplications,
Bob yields, and my wife rubs out the lines of yesterday, two feet come off the library, and
a closet is constructed. But now the parlor proves too narrow,--the parlor wall must be moved
two feet into the hall. Bob declares this will spoil the symmetry of the latter; and, if there
is anything he wants, it is a wide, generous, ample hall to step into when you open the front door.

"Well, then," says Marianne, "let's put two feet more into the width of the house."

"Can't on account of the expense, you see," says Bob. "You see every additional foot of outside
wall necessitates so many more bricks, so much more flooring, so much more roofing, etc."

And my wife, with thoughtful brow, looks over the plans, and considers how two feet more are
to be got into the parlor without moving any of the walls.

"I say," says Bob, bending over her shoulder, "here, take your two feet in the parlor, and
put two more feet on to the other side of the hall stairs;" and he dashes heavily with his pencil.

"Oh, Bob!" exclaims Marianne, "there are the kitchen pantries! you ruin them,--and no place
for the cellar stairs!"

"Hang the pantries and cellar stairs!" says Bob. "Mother must find a place for them somewhere
else. I say the house must be roomy and cheerful, and pantries and those things may take care
of themselves; they can be put somewhere well enough. No fear but you will find a place for
them somewhere. What do you women always want such a great enormous kitchen for?"

"It is not any larger than is necessary," said my wife, thoughtfully; "nothing is gained by
taking off from it."

"What if you should put it all down into a basement," suggests Bob, "and so get it all out
of sight together?"

"Never, if it can be helped," said my wife. "Basement kitchens are necessary evils, only to
be tolerated in cities where land is too dear to afford any other."

So goes the discussion till the trio agree to sleep over it. The next morning an inspiration
visits my wife's pillow. She is up and seizes plans and paper, and, before six o'clock, has
enlarged the parlor very cleverly by throwing out a bow-window. So waxes and wanes the prospective
house, innocently battered down and rebuilt with India-rubber and black-lead. Doors are cut
out to-night and walled up to-morrow; windows knocked out here and put in there, as some observer
suggests possibilities of too much or too little draught. Now all seems finished, when, lo!
a discovery! There is no fireplace nor stove-flue in my lady's bedroom, and can be none without
moving the bathing-room. Pencil and India-rubber are busy again, and for a while the whole
house seems to threaten to fall to pieces with the confusion of the moving; the bath-room wanders
like a ghost, now invading a closet, now threatening the tranquillity of the parlor, till at
last it is laid, by some unheard-of calculations of my wife's, and sinks to rest in a place
so much better that everybody wonders it never was thought of before.

"Papa," said Jenny, "it appears to me people don't exactly know what they want when they build;
why don't you write a paper on housebuilding?"

"I have thought of it," said I, with the air of a man called to settle some great reform. "It
must be entirely because Christopher has not written that our young people and mamma are tangling
themselves daily in webs which are untangled the next day."

"You see," said Jenny, "they have only just so much money, and they want everything they can
think of under the sun. There's Bob been studying architectural antiquities, and nobody knows
what, and sketching all sorts of curly-whorlies; and Marianne has her notions about a parlor
and boudoir and china closets and bedroom closets; and Bob wants a baronial hall; and mamma
stands out for linen closets and bathing-rooms and all that; and so, among them all it will
just end in getting them head over ears in debt."

The thing struck me as not improbable.

"I don't know, Jenny, whether my writing an article is going to prevent all this; but as my
time in the 'Atlantic' is coming round, I may as well write on what I am obliged to think of,
and so I will give a paper on the subject to enliven our next evening's session."

So that evening, when Bob and Marianne had dropped in as usual, and while the customary work
of drawing and rubbing out was going on at Mrs. Crowfield's sofa, I produced my paper and read
as follows:--

OUR HOUSE

There is a place, called "our house," which everybody knows of. The sailor talks of it in his
dreams at sea. The wounded soldier, turning in his uneasy hospital-bed, brightens at the word;
it is like the dropping of cool water in the desert, like the touch of cool fingers on a burning
brow. "Our house," he says feebly, and the light comes back into his dim eyes; for all homely
charities, all fond thoughts, all purities, all that man loves on earth or hopes for in heaven,
rise with the word.

