GAUT GURLEY;

OR,

THE TRAPPERS OF UMBAGOG.

A TALE OF BORDER LIFE.

BY

D. P. THOMPSON,

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

Town and Country contrasted, in relation to Vice and Crime.--A Display Party to avoid Bankruptcy.--Gaut
Gurley, and other leading Characters, introduced as Actors in this scene of City Life.

CHAPTER II.

Retrospect of the life of the Country Merchant, in making Money, to become a "Solid Man of
Boston."--Humble Beginnings.--Tempted into Smuggling from Canada in Embargo times, and makes
a Fortune, by the aid of the desperate and daring Services of Gaut Gurley.--A Sketch of the
Wild Scenes of Smuggling over the British line into Vermont and New Hampshire.--Removal to
the City.

CHAPTER III.

Gambling (an allegory) invented by the Fiends, and is proclaimed the Premium Vice by Lucifer.--A
Gambling Scene between Gaut Gurley and the merchant, Mark Elwood.--The Failure of the latter.--The
Refusal of his brother, Arthur Elwood, to help him.--The Surprise and Distress of his Family.

CHAPTER IV.

The Downward Path of the Habitual Gambler.--His Family sharing in the Degradation, and becoming
the suffering Victims of his Vices.--The Sudden Resolve to be a Man again, and remove to an
unsettled Country, to begin Life anew in the Woods.

CHAPTER V.

The moral and intellectual Influences of Forest Life.--Scenery of Umbagog.--Description of
Elwood's new Home in the Woods.--The Burning of his first Slash.--His House catches Fire, and
he and his Wife engage in extinguishing it, praying for the return of their Son, Claud Elwood,
to help them in their terrible strait.

CHAPTER VI.

Claud Elwood and his Forest Musings.--Dangerous Assault, and slaying of a Moose.--Rescue of
Gaut's Daughter from the enraged animal.--Strange Developments.--Incipient Love Scene.--Trout-catching.--Return
of Claud and Phillips (the Old Hunter here first introduced), to aid in saving the Elwood Cottage
from the fire.--The Thunder-shower comes to complete the conquest of the fire.--The destruction
of the King Pine by a Thunderbolt.

CHAPTER VII.

Journey up the Magalloway, to bring home the slaughtered Moose.--Love and its entanglements;
its Sunshine now, its Storms in the distance.

CHAPTER VIII.

Jaunt of Claud and Phillips over the Rapids to the next Great Lake, for Deer-hunting and Trout-catching.--Rescue
of Fluella, the Indian Chief's Daughter, from Drowning in the Rapids.--Her remarkable Character
for Intellect and Beauty.

CHAPTER IX.

The Logging Bee.--The introduction of a New Character in Comical Codman, the Trapper.--The
Woodmen's Banquet.--The forming of the Trapping and Hunting Company, to start on an Expedition
to the Upper Lakes.

CHAPTER X.

Developments of the dark and designing character of Gaut Gurley.---Tomah, the college-learned
Indian.

CHAPTER XI.

Mrs. Elwood's Bodings, on account of the connection of her Husband and Son with Gaut and his
Daughter.--Her Interview with Fluella.--Claud's Interview with Fluella and her Father, the
Chief.--The Chief's History of his Tribe.

CHAPTER XII.

Adventures of the Trappers the first day of their Expedition up the Lakes.--Bear-hunt, Trout-catching,
etc.--Introduction of Carvil, an amateur Hunter from the Green Mountains.

CHAPTER XIII.

The Trappers' Central Camp on the Maguntic Lake.--Three Stories of most remarkable Adventures
in the Woods, told at the Camp-fire by three Hunters and Trappers.

CHAPTER XIV.

The Voyage to Oquossah, the farthest large Lake.--The stationing of the Trappers at different
points on the Lake.--The appointment of Gaut as Keeper of the Central Camp, on the Lake below.--The
Results of their Fall's Operations, and Preparations to return Home.

CHAPTER XV.

The Trappers overtaken by a terrible Snow-storm.--Their Suffering before reaching Central Camp.--The
discovery that this Camp had been Burnt, and Robbed of their whole Stock of Furs.--Their Providential
Escape from Death.

CHAPTER XVI.

The Legal Prosecution to Recover their Furs, or punish Gaut, the supposed Criminal.--The unsatisfactory
Result, and Gaut's dark menaces of Revenge.

CHAPTER XVII.

Gaut's Efforts to get the old Company off into the Forest, on a Spring Expedition.--All refuse
but Elwood and Son, who conclude to go.--Love Entanglements, and the boding Fears of Mrs. Elwood.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Opening of Spring in the Settlement.--The Trappers fail to Return.--Gaut comes without them.--The
Alarm and Suspicions of the Settlers that he has Murdered, the Elwoods.--The Circumstantial
Evidence.

CHAPTER XIX.

The attempt to Arrest Gaut.--His retreat to a Cave in the Mountain.--His final Dislodgement
and Capture, for Trial and Examination.

CHAPTER XX.

Retrospect of the Adventures of Gaut and the Elwoods.--The Murder of Mark Elwood, and the Wounding
of Claud, by Gaut.--Claud's life saved by Fluella.

CHAPTER XXI.

Gaut's Trial, Sentence, and Imprisonment.--General Denouement of the Story.--Gaut breaks Jail,
escapes, and becomes a desperate Pirate-leader.

SEQUEL.

Awful Fate of a Pirate Ship.--Gaut's Death.

CHAPTER I.

  "God made the country and man made the town."

So wrote the charming Cowper, giving us to understand, by the drift of the context, that he
intended the remark as having a moral as well as a physical application; since, as he there
intimates, in "gain-devoted cities," whither naturally flow "the dregs and feculence of every
land," and where "foul example in most minds begets its likeness," the vices will ever find
their favorite haunts; while the virtues, on the contrary, will always most abound in the country.
So far as regards the virtues, if we are to take them untested, this is doubtless true. And
so far, also, as regards the mere vices, or actual transgressions of morality, we need, perhaps,
to have no hesitation in yielding our assent to the position of the poet. But, if he intends
to include in the category those flagrant crimes which stand first in the gradation of human
offences, we must be permitted to dissent from that part of the view; and not only dissent,
but claim that truth will generally require the very reversal of the picture, for of such crimes
we believe it will be found, on examination, that the country ever furnishes the greatest proportion.
In cities, the frequent intercourse of men with their fellow-men, the constant interchange
of the ordinary civilities of life, and the thousand amusements and calls on their attention
that are daily occurring, have almost necessarily a tendency to soften or turn away the edge
of malice and hatred, to divert the mind from the dark workings of revenge, and prevent it
from settling into any of those fatal purposes which result in the wilful destruction of life,
or some other gross outrage on humanity. But in the country, where, it will be remembered,
the first blood ever spilled by the hand of a murderer cried up to Heaven from the ground,
and where the meliorating circumstances we have named as incident to congregated life are almost
wholly wanting, man is left to brood in solitude over his real or fancied wrongs, till all
the fierce and stormy passions of his nature become aroused, and hurry him unchecked along
to the fatal outbreak. In the city, the strong and bad passions of hate, envy, jealousy, and
revenge, softened in action, as we have said, on finding a readier vent in some of the conditions
of urban society, generally prove comparatively harmless. In the country, finding no such softening
influences, and no such vent, and left to their own workings, they often become dangerously
concentrated, and, growing more and more intensified as their self-fed fires are permitted
to burn on, at length burst through every barrier of restraint, and set all law and reason
alike at defiance.

And if this view, as we believe, is correct in regard to the operation of this class of passions,
why not in regard to the operation of those of an opposite character? Why should not the same
principle apply to the operation of love as well as hate? It should, and does, though not in
an equal degree, perhaps, apply to them both. It has been shown to be so in the experience
of the past. It is illustrated in many a sad drama of real life, but never more strikingly
than in the true and darkly romantic incidents which form the groundwork of the tale upon which
we are about to enter.

It was on a raw and gusty evening in the month of November, a few years subsequent to our last
war with Great Britain, and the cold and vapor-laden winds, which form such a drawback to the
coast-clime of New England, were fitfully wailing over the drear and frost-blackened landscape,
and the wayfarers, as if keenly alive to the discomforts of all without, were seen everywhere
hurrying forward to reach those comforts within which were heralded in the cheerful gleams
that shot from many a window, when a showy and conspicuous mansion, in the environs of Boston,
was observed to be lighted up to an extent, and with a brilliancy, that betokened the advent
of some ambitious display on the part of the bustling inmates. Carriages from different parts
of the city were successively arriving, discharging their loads of gaily-dressed ladies and
gentlemen at the door, and rattling off again at the crack of the whips of the pert and jauntily
equipped drivers. Others on foot, and from the more immediate neighborhood, were, in couples
and singly, for some time constantly dropping in to swell the crowd, witness, and perhaps add
to, the attractions of the occasion, which was obviously one of those social gatherings that
have been sometimes, in conventional phrase, not inaptly denominated a jam; where people go
to be in the fashion, to see, be seen, and try as hard as they can to be happy; but where the
aggregate of happiness enjoyed is probably far less, as a general rule, than would be enjoyed
by the same company at home in the pursuit of their ordinary avocations.

Meanwhile, as the guests were assembling and being conducted to the withdrawing rooms, through
the cash-bought and obsequious politeness of some of the troop of waiters hired for the occasion,
the master of the mansion had taken his station in the nook of a window commanding the common
entrance, and was there stealthily noting, as the company, severally or one group after another,
mounted the doorsteps, who had honored his cards of invitation whom he wished to see there,
and who had come whom he wished to have stayed away. He was a well-favored man, somewhat past
the middle age of life, with regular features, and a good general appearance, but with one
of those unsettled, fluctuating countenances which are usually found in men who, while affecting,
perhaps, a show of independence, lack self-reliance, fixed principles, or some other of the
essential elements of character. And such indeed was Mark Elwood, the reputedly wealthy merchant
whom we have thus introduced as one of the leading personages of our story. Though often moved
with kind and generous impulses, he yet was governed by no settled principles of benevolence;
though often shrewd and sagacious, he yet possessed no true wisdom; and, though often bold
and resolute in action, he yet lacked the faith and firmness of true courage. In short, he
might be regarded as a fair representative of the numerous class we are daily meeting with
in life,--men who do many good things, but more questionable ones; who undertake much, accomplish
little; bustle, agitate, and thus contrive to occupy the largest space in public attention;
but who, when sifted, are found, as Pope maliciously says of women, to

  "have no character at all."

After pursuing his observations a while, with an air of disappointment or indifference, Elwood
was about to turn away, when his eye caught a glimpse of an approaching group of guests, whose
appearance at once lighted up his countenance with a smile of satisfaction, and he half-ejaculated:
"There they come!--the solid men of Boston. The presence of these, with the others who will
all serve as trumpeters of the affair, will quell every suspicion of my credit till some new
strike shall place me beyond danger. Yes, just as I calculated, the money spent will be the
cunningest investment I have made these six months. But who is that tagging along alone after
the rest?" he added, his countenance suddenly changing to a troubled look, and slowly, and
with a strange emphasis, pronouncing the name, "GAUT GURLEY!" he hurried away from his post
of observation.

The person whose obviously unexpected appearance among the arriving guests had so much disturbed
our host, having leisurely brought up the rear, now paused a few paces from the door, and took
a deliberate survey of all that was visible through the windows of the scene passing within.
He was a man of a personal appearance not likely to be forgotten. His strong, upright, well-proportioned
frame, full, rounded head, and unexceptionable features, were unusually well calculated to
arrest the attention, and, at a little distance especially, to secure the favorable impressions
of others; but those impressions faded away, or gave place to opposite emotions, on a nearer
approach, for then the beholder read something in the countenance that met his, which made
him pause,--something which he could not fathom, but which at once disinclined him to any acquaintance
with the man to whom that countenance belonged.

Perhaps it should be viewed as one of the kindest provisions of Providence, made in aid of
our rights and instincts of self-preservation, that man should not be able wholly to hide the
secrets of his heart from his fellow-men,--that the human countenance should be so formed that
no schooling, however severe, can prevent it from betraying the evil thoughts and purposes
which may be lurking within. It is said that God alone can read the secrets of the heart; but
we have often thought that He has imparted to us more of this attribute of His omniscience
than that which is vouchsafed us in any one of our other faculties; or, in other words, that,
to the skill we may acquire by practice in reading the countenance, He has added something
of the light of intuition, to enable us to pierce into the otherwise impenetrable recesses
of the bosom, and thus guard ourselves against the designs which may there be disclosed, and
which, but for that, the deceptions of the tongue might forever conceal. All this, we are aware,
may pass as a mere supposition; yet we think its correctness will be very generally attested
by officers of justice, policemen, jailers, and all those who have had much experience in the
detection of crime.

But, whether the doctrine is applicable or not in the generality of cases, it was certainly
so in that of the unbidden guest whose appearance we have attempted to describe. Unlike Elwood,
he had character, but all those who closely noted him were made to feel that his character
was a dark and dangerous one.

After Gaut, for such he was called among his acquaintance, had leisurely run his eye from window
to window of the many lighted apartments of the house, and scanned, as he did, with many a
sneering smile, the appearances within, as long as suited his pleasure, he boldly walked in,
and, with all the assurance of the most favored, proceeded to mingle with the company.

On quitting his lookout, Elwood repaired to the reception-room, where Mrs. Elwood, the mistress
of the mansion, was already in waiting, nerving herself to perform, as acceptably as she could,
her part of the stereotyped ceremony of receiving the guests, and exchanging with them the
salutations and commonplaces of the evening. Mrs. Elwood, though not beautiful, nor even handsome,
was yet every way a comely woman; and the quiet dignity and the unpretending simplicity of
her manner, together with a certain intelligent and appreciating cast of countenance, which
always rested on her placid, features, seldom failed to impress those who approached her with
feelings of kindness and respect. She looked pale and fatigued, from the labors and anxieties
she had gone through in the preparations for the present occasion; and, in addition to this,
which is ever the penalty to the mistress of the house in getting up a large party, there was
an air of sadness in her looks that told of secret sorrows which were not much mitigated by
all the show of wealth that surrounded her.

By this time the company, having mostly arrived and divested themselves of hats, gloves, bonnets,
shawls, together with all other of the loose etceteras of dress then in vogue, and carefully
consulted the confidential mirrors to secure that adjustment of collars, curls, smirks, and
smiles which are deemed most favorable for effect in public, were now shown into the suit of
apartments where the host and hostess were waiting to receive them.

But it is far from our purpose to attempt a detailed description of the thousand little nothings
which go to make up the character of one of these great fashionable parties. Who ever came
from one the wiser? Not one guest in ten, probably, is found engaged in a conversation in which
the ordinary powers of the speaker are exercised. A forced glee and smartness seem everywhere
to prevail among the company, who are continually sacrificing their common sense in their eager
attempts to appear gay and witty. Who was ever made really happier by being in such an assemblage?
Although the participants may exhibit to casual observation the semblance of enjoyment, yet
a close inspection will show that they are only acting, and that, as we have already intimated,
their apparent enjoyment is no more deserving the name of social happiness than that which
is often represented as enjoyed by a company of stage actors, in the harassing performance
of the fictitious scenes of some genteel comedy. Who was ever made any better? Any rational
discussion tending to exalt or purify the mind would be deemed out of place; and any moral
teachings would be ridiculed or find no listeners. And, finally, who was ever made healthier?
In the bad air generated among so many breaths in confined apartments, the high nervous excitement
that usually prevails among the company, and the exposure to cold or dampness to which their
unprepared systems are often subjected in returning home, Death has marked many a victim for
his own; while, at the best, lassitude and depression are sure to follow, from which it will
require days to recover.

In these strictures on overgrown parties, we would not, of course, be understood as intending
to include the smaller social gatherings, where men and women do not, as they are prone to
do in crowds, lose their sense of personal responsibility, in deporting themselves like rational
beings; for such doubtless often lead to pleasing and instructive interchange of thought, and
the cultivation of those little amenities of life which are scarcely less essential than the
virtues themselves in the structure of good society.

But it is time we had returned from this digression to the characters and incidents immediately
connected with the action of our tale.

A short time after the frosts of formality, which usually attend the introductory scenes of
such assemblages, had melted away and given place to the noisy frivolities of the evening,
and while the bustling host, and pale, anxious-looking hostess, were together taking their
rounds among their three hundred guests, bestowing their attentions on the more neglected,
calling out the more modest, and exchanging civilities with all,--while this was passing, suddenly
there arose from without a confused noise, as of quick movements and mingling voices, which,
from its character and the direction whence it came, obviously indicated some altercation,
or other disturbance, at the outer door. This attracting the quickened attention of Mr. and
Mrs. Elwood, the former left his companion, and was threading his way through the throng, when
he was met by a servant, who in a flurried under-tone said:

"There is out here at the door, Mr. Elwood, a sort of a countryfied, odd-looking old fellow,
in rusty brown clothes, that has been insisting on coming in, without being invited here to-night,
and without telling his business or even giving his name. And he pressed so hard that we had
to drive him back off the steps; but he refused to go away, even then, and kept asking where
Mark was."

"Mark! why, that is my given name: didn't you know it?" said Elwood, rebukingly.

"No, sir, I didn't," replied the fashionable pro tempore lackey. "And if I had, my orders has
always been on sech occasions not to admit any but the invited, who won't send in their names,
or tell their business. And I generally calculate to go by Gunter, and do the thing up genteel."

"Well, well," said Elwood, impatiently cutting short the other in the defence of his professional
character, and leading the way to the door, "well, well, we had better see who he is, perhaps."

When they reached the front entrance, they caught, by means of the reflected light of the entry
and chambers, an imperfect view of the object of their proposed scrutiny, walking up and down
the bricked pathway leading to the house. But, not being able to identify the new-comer with
any one of his acquaintances, at that distance, Elwood walked down and confronted him; when,
after a momentary pause, he siezed the supposed intruder by the hand, and, in a surprised and
agitated tone, exclaimed:

"My brother Arthur! How came you here?"

"By steam and stage."

"Not what I meant: but no matter. We were not expecting you; and I fear the waiters have made
a sad mistake."

"As bad an one as I did, perhaps, in declining to be catechized at my brother's door."

"No, you were right enough; but the waiters, being only here for the extra occasion,--the bit
of flare-up you see we have here to-night,--and not knowing you, thought they must do as others
do at such times. So overlook the blunder, if you will, and walk in."

Mark Elwood, much chagrined and discomposed at the discovery of such an untoward first reception
of his brother, now ushered him into the brilliantly-lighted hall, where the two stood in such
singular contrast that no stranger would have ever taken them for brothers,--Mark being, as
we have before described him, a good-sized, and, in the main, a good-looking man; while the
other, whom we have introduced as Arthur Elwood, was of a diminutive size, with commonplace
features, and a severe, forbidding countenance, made so, perhaps, by intense application to
business, together with the unfavorable effect caused by a blemished and sightless eye.

"Well, brother," said Mark, after a hesitating and awkward pause, "shall I look you up a private
room, or will you go in among the company,--that is, if you consider yourself in trim to join
them?"

"Your rooms must all be in use, and I should make less trouble to go in and be lost in the
crowd. My trim will not kill anybody, probably," was the dry reply to the indirect hint of
the other.

In all this Mark's better judgment coincided; but he had no moral courage, and, fearing the
cut and color of his somewhat outre-looking brother's garments might excite the remarks of
his fashionable guests, he would have gladly disposed of him in some private manner till the
company had departed. Finding him, however, totally insensible to all such considerations,
he concluded to make the best of it, and accordingly at once led the way into the guest-crowded
apartments.

Here, contrary to his doubting brother's expectation, Arthur Elwood, whose character appeared
to be known to several of the wealthier guests, was soon treated with much respect, for, in
addition to what a previous knowledge of him secured, Mrs. Elwood had promptly come forward
to greet him, and be cordially greeted in return, and, unlike her husband, had not hesitated
to bestow on him publicly the most marked attentions. As soon, however, as she had thus testified
her sense of the superiority of worth over outward appearance, and thus, by her delicate tact,
given him the consideration with the company which she thought belonged to the brother of her
husband, she gracefully relinquished him to the latter; when the two, by tacit mutual consent,
sought a secluded corner, and seated themselves for a private conversation.

"As I said, I did not expect you, Arthur," commenced Mark Elwood, in the unsteady and hesitating
tone of one about to broach a matter in which he felt a deep interest. "I was not looking for
you here at all, these days; but presumed, when I wrote you, that, if you concluded to grant
the favor I asked, you would transact the business through the mail."

"Loans of money are not always favors, Mark," responded the other, thoughtfully; "and when
I make them, I like to know whether they promise any real benefit. I could, as you say, have
transacted the business through the mail, but I confess, Mark, I have lately had some misgivings
and doubts whether your commercial fabric here in Boston was not too big and broad for the
foundation; and I thought I would come, see, and judge for myself."

"But I only asked for the loan of a few thousands," said Mark, meekly. "The fact is, Arthur,
that, owing to some bad luck and disappointments in money matters, I am, just now, a little
embarrassed about meeting some of my engagements; and I trust you will not refuse to give me
a lift. What say you, Arthur?"

"I don't say, but will see and decide," replied the other. "But, Mark," he added, after a pause,
"Mark, what will this useless parade here to-night cost you?"

"O, a mere trifle,--a few hundreds, perhaps."

"And you think hundreds well spent, when you are wanting thousands to pay your debts, do you?"

"O, you know, Arthur, a man, to keep up his credit, must display a little once in a while."

"No, I did not know that, Mark. I did not know that the throwing away of hundreds would help
a man's credit in thousands, especially with those whose opinion would be of any use to him.
But go," added the speaker, rising, "go and see to your company: I can take care of myself."

The brothers, rising from an interview in which they had felt, perhaps, nearly an equal degree
of secret embarrassment,--the one believing that his last hope hung on the result, and the
other feeling conscious of entering on a most ungracious duty,--now separated, and mingled
with the gay throng, who, swaying hither and thither, and, seemingly without end or aim, moving
round and round their limited range of apartments, like the froth in the circling eddies of
a whirlpool, continued to laugh, flirt, and chatter on, till the advent of the last act of
the social farce,--the throwing open of a suit of hitherto sealed apartments, and the welcome
disclosure of the varied and costly delicacies of the loaded refreshment tables, which the
company, by their strong and simultaneous rush thitherward, the rattling of knives and forks,
spoons and glasses, the rapid popping of champagne corks, and the low, eager hum of gratified
voices that followed, evidently deemed the best, as well as the closing, act of the evening's
entertainment.

While this scene was in progress, Gaut Gurley, who had been for some time in vain watching
the opportunity, caught Mark Elwood unoccupied in one of the vacated apartments, and abruptly
approached and confronted him.

"Well, what now, Gaut?" exclaimed Elwood, with an assumed air of pettishness, after finding
there was no further chance of escaping an interview which he had evidently been trying to
avoid; "what would you have now?"

"I would just know whether you intend to keep your engagement," replied Gurley, fixing his
black, quivering eyes keenly on the other.

"What engagement?"

"To give me a chance to win back that money."

"Which you demand when you have taken from me an hundred to one!"

"And who had a better right? Through whose means did you make your fortune? Besides this, haven't
I always given you a fair chance to win back all you could?"

"I want no more of such chances,"

"But you promised; and I want to know whether you mean to keep that promise or not."

"Supposing I do, you would not have me leave home to-night, would you?"

"Yes, to-night."

"But my brother, as you have already discovered, I presume, has just arrived on a visit; and
you know I can't decently leave him."

"And what do I care for that? Say whether you will meet me at the old room, or not, as soon
as your company have cleared out?"

"You are unreasonable, cruel, Gaut."

"Then say you will not go, and see what will come of it, Mark Elwood!"

"I must go--I will go, Gaut," replied Elwood, turning pale at the last intimation. "As soon
as I get rid of the company, I will start directly for the place."

"Well, just as you can afford," said Gaut, doggedly, as he turned on his heel, and made his
way out of the house.

Mark Elwood drew a long breath as he was thus relieved of the other's presence, and was leaving
the room, when Mrs. Elwood, who had felt much disturbed at discovering among her guests one
of whose questionable character and connection with her husband she was already apprised, and
who, from an adjoining apartment, had caught a slight glimpse of the meeting just described,
and enough of the conversation to enable her to guess at its import, hurriedly came forward,
and, in a voice tremulous from suppressed emotion, said:

"You surely are not going out to-night, Mr. Elwood?"

"No--that is--only for a short time," he said, hesitating, and a little confused at the discovery
of his design, which a second thought told him she had made; "only for a short time. But don't
stop me to talk now; you see the company are retiring. I must see the gentlemen off."

"Mr. Elwood, I must be heard," persisted the troubled and anxious wife. "I cannot bear to have
you go off, and leave your only brother, whom you have not seen for years, and for such company!
O Mr. Elwood, how can you let that bad man--"

"Hush! don't get into such a stew. I shall soon be back," interrupted the other. "You can excuse
my absence. There, I hear them inquiring for me. I must go," he added, abruptly breaking away,
and leaving his grieved companion to hide her emotions as she best could from the guests who
were now seen approaching for their parting salutations.

In a few minutes the company had dispersed for their respective homes, and with them, also,
had unnoticed slipped away their infatuated host.

CHAPTER II.

  "At first, he, busy, plodding poor,
  Earned, saved, and daily swelled his store;
  But soon Ambition's summits rose,
  And Avarice dug his mine of woes."

