    [James Guthrie was chaplain of Newgate in 1731; and the phrase
    Guthryisms, we conjecture, agrees in common parlance with a later
    saying, that of "stuffing Cotton in the prisoner's ears."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

CORRESPONDENCE OF CRANMER AND CALVIN.

(Vol. vii., p. 501.)

The question put by C. D., respecting the existence of letters said to have passed between
Archbishop Cranmer and Calvin, and to exist in print at Geneva, upon the seeming sanction given
by our liturgy to the belief that baptism confers regeneration, is a revival of an inquiry
made by several persons about ten years ago. It then induced M. Merle d'Aubigné to make the
search of which C. D. has heard; and the result of that search was given in a communication
from the Protestant historian to the editor of the Record, bearing date April 22, 1843.

I have that communication before me, as a cutting from the Record; but
have not preserved the date of the number in which it appeared[2], though
likely to be soon after its receipt by the editor. Imo ex corruptelis papatus audio
    relictum esse congeriem, quæ non obscuret modo, sed propemodum obruat
    purum et genuinum Dei cultum."

Part of this letter, but with important omissions, had been published by Dean Jenkyns in 1833.
(Cranmer's Remains, vol. i. p. 347.) M. d'Aubigné's communication gave the whole of it; and
it ought to have appeared in the Parker Society volume of original letters relative to the
English Reformation. That volume contains one of Calvin's letters to the Protector Somerset;
but omits another, of which Merle d'Aubigné's communication supplied a portion, containing
this important sentence:

    "Quod ad formulam precum et rituum ecclesiasticorum, valde probo ut
    certa illa extet, a qua pastoribus discedere in functione sua non
    liceat, tam ut consulatur quorumdam simplicitati et imperitiæ, quam ut
    certius ita constet omnium inter se ecclesiarum consensus."

Another portion of a letter from Calvin, communicated by D'Aubigné, is headed in the Record
"Cnoxo et gregalibus, S. D.;" but seems to be the one cited in the Parker Society, vol. ii.
of Letters, pp. 755-6, notes 941, as a letter to Richard Cox and others; so that Cnoxo should
have been Coxo.

The same valuable communication farther contained the letter of Cranmer inviting Calvin to
unite with Melancthon and Bullinger in forming arrangements for holding a Protestant synod
in some safe place; meaning in England, as he states more expressly to Melancthon. This letter,
however, had been printed entire by Dean Jenkyns, vol. i. p. 346.; and it is given, with an
English translation, in the Parker Society edition of Cranmer's Works as Letter CCXCVII., p.
431. It is important, as proving that Heylyn stated what was untrue, Eccles. Restaur., p. 65.;
where he has said, "Calvin had offered his assistance to Archbishop Cranmer. But the archbishop
knew the man, and refused his offer." Instead of such an offer, Calvin replied courteously
and affectionately to Cranmer's invitation; but says, "Tenuitatem meam facturam spero, ut mihi
parcatur ... Mihi utinam par studii ardori suppeteret facultas." This reply, the longest letter
in their correspondence, is printed in the note attached to Cranmer's letter (Park. Soc., as
above, p. 432.; and a translation of it in Park. Soc. Original Letters, vol. ii. p. 711.: and
there are extracts from it in Jenkyns, p. 346., n.p.). D'Aubigné gave it entire; but has placed
both Calvin's letters to the archbishop before the latter's epistle to him, to which they both
refer.

HENRY WALTER.

[Footnote 2: It appeared in the No. for May 15, 1849.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"POPULUS VULT DECIPI."

(Vol. vii., p. 572.)

