8. There is so much of heaven in this language, that it cannot well be understood on earth,
though we may desire ever so much to explain it, if our Lord will not teach it experimentally.
Our Lord impresses in the innermost soul that which He wills that soul to understand; and He
manifests it there without images or formal words, after the manner of the vision I am speaking
of. Consider well this way in which God works, in order that the soul may understand what He
means--His great truths and mysteries; for very often what I understand, when our Lord explains
to me the vision, which it is His Majesty's pleasure to set before me, is after this manner;
and it seems to me that this is a state with which the devil can least interfere, for these
reasons; but if these reasons are not good, I must be under a delusion.  The vision and the
language are matters of such pure spirituality, that there is no toil of the faculties, or
of the senses, out of which--so seems to me--the devil can derive any advantage.

9. It is only at intervals, and for an instant, that this occurs; for generally--so I think--the
senses are not taken away, and the faculties are not suspended: they preserve their ordinary
state. It is not always so in contemplation; on the contrary, it is very rarely so; but when
it is so, I say that we do nothing whatever ourselves: no work of ours is then possible; all
that is done is apparently the work of our Lord.  It is as if food had been received into the
stomach which had not first been eaten, and without our knowing how it entered; but we do know
well that it is there, though we know not its nature, nor who it was that placed it there.
In this vision, I know who placed it; but I do not know how He did it.  I neither saw it, nor
felt it; I never had any inclination to desire it, and I never knew before that such a thing
was possible.

10. In the locutions of which I spoke before, [9] God makes the understanding attentive, though
it may be painful to understand what is said; then the soul seems to have other ears wherewith
it hears; and He forces it to listen, and will not let it be distracted.  The soul is like
a person whose hearing was good, and who is not suffered to stop his ears, while people standing
close beside him speak to him with a loud voice.  He may be unwilling to hear, yet hear he
must.  Such a person contributes something of his own; for he attends to what is said to him;
but here there is nothing of the kind: even that little, which is nothing more than the bare
act of listening, which is granted to it in the other case, is now out of its power.  It finds
its food prepared and eaten; it has nothing more to do but to enjoy it. It is as if one without
ever learning, without taking the pains even to learn to read, and without studying any subject
whatever, should find himself in possession of all knowledge, not knowing how or whence it
came to him, seeing that he had never taken the trouble even to learn the alphabet.  This last
comparison seems to me to throw some light on this heavenly gift; for the soul finds itself
learned in a moment, and the mystery of the most Holy Trinity so clearly revealed to it, together
with other most deep doctrines, that there is no theologian in the world with whom it would
hesitate to dispute for the truth of these matters.

11. It is impossible to describe the surprise of the soul when it finds that one of these graces
is enough to change it utterly, and make it love nothing but Him who, without waiting for anything
itself might do, renders it fit for blessings so high, communicates to it His secrets, and
treats it with so much affection and love.  Some of the graces He bestows are liable to suspicion
because they are so marvellous, and given to one who has deserved them so little--incredible,
too, without a most lively faith.  I intend, therefore, to mention very few of those graces
which our Lord has wrought in me, if I should not be ordered otherwise; but there are certain
visions of which I shall speak, an account of which may be of some service.  In doing so, I
shall either dispel his fears to whom our Lord sends them, and who, as I used to do, thinks
them impossible, or I shall explain the way or the road by which our Lord has led me; and that
is what I have been commanded to describe.

12. Now, going back to speak of this way of understanding, what it is seems to me to be this:
it is our Lord's will in every way that the soul should have some knowledge of what passes
in heaven; and I think that, as the blessed there without speech understand one another,--I
never knew this for certain till our Lord of His goodness made me see it; He showed it to me
in a trance,--so is it here: God and the soul understand one another, merely because His Majesty
so wills it, without the help of other means, to express the love there is between them both.
In the same way on earth, two persons of sound sense, if they love each other much, can even,
without any signs, understand one another only by their looks.  It must be so here, though
we do not see how, as these two lovers earnestly regard each the other: the bridegroom says
so to the bride in the Canticle, so I believe, and I have heard that it is spoken of there. [10]

13. Oh, marvellous goodness of God, in that Thou permittest eyes which have looked upon so
much evil as those of my soul to look upon Thee!  May they never accustom themselves, after
looking on Thee, to look upon vile things again! and may they have pleasure in nothing but
in Thee, O Lord!  Oh, ingratitude of men, how far will it go!  I know by experience that what
I am saying is true, and that all we can say is exceedingly little, when we consider what Thou
doest to the soul which Thou hast led to such a state as this.  O souls, you who have begun
to pray, and you who possess the true faith, what can you be in search of even in this life,
let alone that which is for ever, that is comparable to the least of these graces?  Consider,
and it is true, that God gives Himself to those who give up everything for Him.  God is not
an accepter of persons. [11]  He loves all; there is no excuse for any one, however wicked
he may be, seeing that He hath thus dealt with me, raising me to the state I am in. Consider,
that what I am saying is not even an iota of what may be said; I say only that which is necessary
to show the kind of the vision and of the grace which God bestows on the soul; for that cannot
be told which it feels when our Lord admits it to the understanding of His secrets and of His
mighty works.  The joy of this is so far above all conceivable joys, that it may well make
us loathe all the joys of earth; for they are all but dross; and it is an odious thing to make
them enter into the comparison, even if we might have them for ever.  Those which our Lord
gives, what are they?  One drop only of the waters of the overflowing river which He is reserving
for us.

14. It is a shame!  And, in truth, I am ashamed of myself; if shame could have a place in heaven,
I should certainly be the most ashamed there.  Why do we seek blessings and joys so great,
bliss without end, and all at the cost of our good Jesus? Shall we not at least weep with the
daughters of Jerusalem, [12] if we do not help to carry his cross with the Cyrenean? [13] Is
it by pleasure and idle amusements that we can attain to the fruition of what He purchased
with so much blood?  It is impossible.  Can we think that we can, by preserving our honour,
which is vanity, recompense Him for the sufferings He endured, that we might reign with Him
for ever?  This is not the way; we are going by the wrong road utterly, and we shall never
arrive there.  You, my father, must lift up your voice, and utter these truths aloud, seeing
that God has taken from me the power of doing it.  I should like to utter them to myself for
ever. I listened to them myself, and came to the knowledge of God so late, as will appear by
what I have written, that I am ashamed of myself when I speak of this; and so I should like
to be silent.

15. Of one thing, however, I will speak, and I think of it now and then,--may it be the good
pleasure of our Lord to bring me on, so that I may have the fruition of it!--what will be the
accidental glory and the joy of the blessed who have entered on it, when they see that, though
they were late, yet they left nothing undone which it was possible for them to do for God,
who kept nothing back they could give Him, and who gave what they gave in every way they could,
according to their strength and their measure,--they who had more gave more.  How rich will
he be who gave up all his riches for Christ!  How honourable will he be who, for His sake,
sought no honours whatever, but rather took pleasure in seeing himself abased!  How wise he
will be who rejoiced when men accounted him as mad!--they did so of Wisdom Itself! [14]  How
few there are of this kind now, because of our sins!  Now, indeed, they are all gone whom people
regarded as mad, [15] because they saw them perform heroic acts, as true lovers of Christ.

16. O world, world! how thou art gaining credit because they are few who know thee!  But do
we suppose that God is better pleased when men account us wise and discreet persons?  We think
forthwith that there is but little edification given when people do not go about, every one
in his degree, with great gravity, in a dignified way.  Even in the friar, the ecclesiastic,
and the nun, if they wear old and patched garments, we think it a novelty, and a scandal to
the weak; and even if they are very recollected and given to prayer.  Such is the state of
the world, and so forgotten are matters of perfection, and those grand impetuosities of the
Saints.  More mischief, I think, is done in this way, than by any scandal that might arise
if the religious showed in their actions, as they proclaim it in words, that the world is to
be held in contempt.  Out of scandals such as this, our Lord obtains great fruit.  If some
people took scandal, others are filled with remorse: anyhow, we should have before us some
likeness of that which our Lord and His Apostles endured; for we have need of it now more than
ever.

17. And what an excellent likeness in the person of that blessed friar, Peter of Alcantara,
God has just taken from us! [16] The world cannot bear such perfection now; it is said that
men's health is grown feebler, and that we are not now in those former times.  But this holy
man lived in our day; he had a spirit strong as those of another age, and so he trampled on
the world. If men do not go about barefooted, nor undergo sharp penances, as he did, there
are many ways, as I have said before, [17] of trampling on the world; and our Lord teaches
them when He finds the necessary courage. How great was the courage with which His Majesty
filled the Saint I am speaking of!  He did penance--oh, how sharp it was!--for seven-and-forty
years, as all men know. I should like to speak of it, for I know it to be all true.

18. He spoke of it to me and to another person, from whom he kept few or no secrets.  As for
me, it was the affection he bore me that led him to speak; for it was our Lord's will that
he should undertake my defence, and encourage me, at a time when I was in great straits, as
I said before, and shall speak of again. [18] He told me, I think, that for forty years he
slept but an hour and a half out of the twenty-four, and that the most laborious penance he
underwent, when he began, was this of overcoming sleep.  For that purpose, he was always either
kneeling or standing.  When he slept, he sat down, his head resting against a piece of wood
driven into the wall.  Lie down he could not, if he wished it; for his cell, as every one knows,
was only four feet and a half in length.  In all these years, he never covered his head with
his hood, even when the sun was hottest, or the rain heaviest.  He never covered his feet:
the only garment he wore was made of sackcloth, and that was as tight as it could be, with
nothing between it and his flesh; over this, he wore a cloak of the same stuff.  He told me
that, in the severe cold, he used to take off his cloak, and open the door and the window of
his cell, in order that when he put his cloak on again, after shutting the door and the window,
he might give some satisfaction to his body in the pleasure it might have in the increased
warmth. His ordinary practice was to eat but once in three days.  He said to me, "Why are you
astonished at it? it is very possible for any one who is used to it."  One of his companions
told me that he would be occasionally eight days without eating: that must have been when he
was in prayer; for he was subject to trances, and to the impetuosities of the love of God,
of which I was once a witness myself.

19. His poverty was extreme; and his mortification, from his youth, was such,--so he told me,--that
he was three years in one of the houses of his Order without knowing how to distinguish one
friar from another, otherwise than by the voice; for he never raised his eyes: and so, when
he was obliged to go from one part of the house to the other, he never knew the way, unless
he followed the friars.  His journeys, also, were made in the same way.  For many years, he
never saw a woman's face.  He told me that it was nothing to him then whether he saw it or
not: but he was an aged man when I made his acquaintance; and his weakness was so great, that
he seemed like nothing else but the roots of trees.  With all his sanctity, he was very agreeable;
though his words were few, unless when he was asked questions; he was very pleasant to speak
to, for he had a most clear understanding.

20. Many other things I should like to say of him, if I were not afraid, my father, that you
will say, Why does she meddle here? and it is in that fear I have written this.  So I leave
the subject, only saying that his last end was like his life--preaching to, and exhorting,
his brethren.  When he saw that the end was comes he repeated the Psalm, [19] "Laetatus sum
in his quae dicta sunt mihi;" and then, kneeling down, he died.

21. Since then, it has pleased our Lord that I should find more help from him than during his
life.  He advises me in many matters.  I have often seen him in great glory.  The first time
he appeared to me, he said: "O blessed penance, which has merited so great a reward!" with
other things.  A year before his death, he appeared to me being then far away.  I knew he was
about to die, and so I sent him word to that effect, when he was some leagues from here.  When
he died, he appeared to me, and said that he was going to his rest.  I did not believe it.
I spoke of it to some persons, and within eight days came the news that he was dead--or, to
speak more correctly, he had begun to live for evermore. [20]

22. Behold here, then, how that life of sharp penance is perfected in such great glory: and
now he is a greater comfort to me, I do believe, than he was on earth.  Our Lord said to me
on one occasion, that persons could not ask Him anything in his name, and He not hear them.
I have recommended many things to him that he was to ask of our Lord, and I have seen my petitions
granted.  God be blessed for ever!  Amen.

