"My one consolation," he said, "in this storm is a talk I had last month with a young Irishwoman
in Meath. She was a young person of twelve, and she took a fancy to me--I think because I went
with her in an alleged dangerous canoe she was forbidden to navigate alone. All day the eternal
Irish Question had banged about over her observant head. When we were out on the water she
suddenly decided to set me right upon a disregarded essential. 'You English,' she said, 'are
just a bit disposed to take all this trouble seriously. Don't you fret yourself about it...
Half the time we're just laffing at you. You'd best leave us all alone....'"

And then he went off at a tangent from his own anecdote.

"But look at this miserable spectacle!" he cried. "Here is a chance of getting something like
a reconciliation of the old feud of English and Irish, and something like a settlement of these
ancient distresses, and there seems no power, no conscience, no sanity in any of us, sufficient
to save it from this cantankerous bitterness, this sheer wicked mischief of mutual exasperation....
Just when Ireland is getting a gleam of prosperity.... A murrain on both your parties!"

"I see, Mr. Britling, you'd hand us all over to Jim Larkin!"

"I'd hand you all over to Sir Horace Plunkett--"

"That doctrinaire dairyman!" cried Lady Frensham, with an air of quite conclusive repartee.
"You're hopeless, Mr. Britling. You're hopeless."

And Lady Homartyn, seeing that the phase of mere personal verdicts drew near, created a diversion
by giving Lady Frensham a second cup of tea, and fluttering like a cooling fan about the heated
brows of the disputants. She suggested tennis....

Section 5

Mr. Britling was still flushed and ruffled as he and his guest returned towards the Dower House.
He criticised England himself unmercifully, but he hated to think that in any respect she fell
short of perfection; even her defects he liked to imagine were just a subtler kind of power
and wisdom. And Lady Frensham had stuck her voice and her gestures through all these amiable
illusions. He was like a lover who calls his lady a foolish rogue, and is startled to find
that facts and strangers do literally agree with him.

But it was so difficult to resolve Lady Frensham and the Irish squabble generally into anything
better than idiotic mischief, that for a time he was unusually silent--wrestling with the problem,
and Mr. Direck got the conversational initiative.

"To an American mind it's a little--startling," said Mr. Direck, "to hear ladies expressing
such vigorous political opinions."

"I don't mind that," said Mr. Britling. "Women over here go into politics and into public-houses--I
don't see why they shouldn't. If such things are good enough for men they are good enough for
women; we haven't your sort of chivalry. But it's the peculiar malignant silliness of this
sort of Toryism that's so discreditable. It's discreditable. There's no good in denying it.
Those people you have heard and seen are a not unfair sample of our governing class--of a certain
section of our governing class--as it is to-day. Not at all unfair. And you see how amazingly
they haven't got hold of anything. There was a time when they could be politic.... Hidden away
they have politic instincts even now.... But it makes me sick to think of this Irish business.
Because, you know, it's true--we are drifting towards civil war there."

"You are of that opinion?" said Mr. Direck.

"Well, isn't it so? Here's all this Ulster gun-running--you heard how she talked of it? Isn't
it enough to drive the south into open revolt?..."

"Is there very much, do you think, in the suggestion that some of this Ulster trouble is a
German intrigue? You and Mr. Philbert were saying things--"

"I don't know," said Mr. Britling shortly.

"I don't know," he repeated. "But it isn't because I don't think our Unionists and their opponents
aren't foolish enough for anything of the sort. It's only because I don't believe that the
Germans are so stupid as to do such things.... Why should they?...

"It makes me--expressionless with anger," said Mr. Britling after a pause, reverting to his
main annoyance. "They won't consider any compromise. It's sheer love of quarrelling.... Those
people there think that nothing can possibly happen. They are like children in a nursery playing
at rebellion. Unscathed and heedless. Until there is death at their feet they will never realise
they are playing with loaded guns...."

For a time he said no more; and listened perfunctorily while Mr. Direck tried to indicate the
feeling in New England towards the Irish Question and the many difficult propositions an American
politician has to face in that respect. And when Mr. Britling took up the thread of speech
again it had little or no relation to Mr. Direck's observations.

"The psychology of all this recent insubordination and violence is--curious. Exasperating too....
I don't quite grasp it.... It's the same thing whether you look at the suffrage business or
the labour people or at this Irish muddle. People may be too safe. You see we live at the end
of a series of secure generations in which none of the great things of life have changed materially.
We've grown up with no sense of danger--that is to say, with no sense of responsibility. None
of us, none of us--for though I talk my actions belie me--really believe that life can change
very fundamentally any more forever. All this",--Mr. Britling waved his arm comprehensively--"looks
as though it was bound to go on steadily forever. It seems incredible that the system could
be smashed. It seems incredible that anything we can do will ever smash the system. Lady Homartyn,
for example, is incapable of believing that she won't always be able to have week-end parties
at Claverings, and that the letters and the tea won't come to her bedside in the morning. Or
if her imagination goes to the point of supposing that some day she won't be there to receive
the tea, it means merely that she supposes somebody else will be. Her pleasant butler may fear
to lose his 'situation,' but nothing on earth could make him imagine a time when there will
not be a 'situation' for him to lose. Old Asquith thinks that we always have got along, and
that we always shall get along by being quietly artful and saying, 'Wait and see.' And it's
just because we are all convinced that we are so safe against a general breakdown that we are
able to be so recklessly violent in our special cases. Why shouldn't women have the vote? they
argue. What does it matter? And bang goes a bomb in Westminster Abbey. Why shouldn't Ulster
create an impossible position? And off trots some demented Carsonite to Germany to play at
treason on some half word of the German Emperor's and buy half a million rifles....

"Exactly like children being very, very naughty....

"And," said Mr. Britling with a gesture to round off his discourse, "we do go on. We shall
go on--until there is a spark right into the magazine. We have lost any belief we ever had
that fundamental things happen. We are everlasting children in an everlasting nursery...."

And immediately he broke out again.

"The truth of the matter is that hardly any one has ever yet mastered the fact that the world
is round. The world is round--like an orange. The thing is told us--like any old scandal--at
school. For all practical purposes we forget it. Practically we all live in a world as flat
as a pancake. Where time never ends and nothing changes. Who really believes in any world outside
the circle of the horizon? Here we are and visibly nothing is changing. And so we go on to--nothing
will ever change. It just goes on--in space, in time. If we could realise that round world
beyond, then indeed we should go circumspectly.... If the world were like a whispering gallery,
what whispers might we not hear now--from India, from Africa, from Germany, warnings from the
past, intimations of the future....

"We shouldn't heed them...."

Section 6

And indeed at the very moment when Mr. Britling was saying these words, in Sarajevo in Bosnia,
where the hour was somewhat later, men whispered together, and one held nervously to a black
parcel that had been given him and nodded as they repeated his instructions, a black parcel
with certain unstable chemicals and a curious arrangement of detonators therein, a black parcel
destined ultimately to shatter nearly every landmark of Mr. Britling's and Lady Frensham's
cosmogony....

Section 7

When Mr. Direck and Mr. Britling returned to the Dower House the guest was handed over to Mrs.
Britling and Mr. Britling vanished, to reappear at supper time, for the Britlings had a supper
in the evening instead of dinner. When Mr. Britling did reappear every trace of his vexation
with the levities of British politics and the British ruling class had vanished altogether,
and he was no longer thinking of all that might be happening in Germany or India....

While he was out of the way Mr. Direck extended his acquaintance with the Britling household.
He was taken round the garden and shown the roses by Mrs. Britling, and beyond the rose garden
in a little arbour they came upon Miss Corner reading a book. She looked very grave and pretty
reading a book. Mr. Direck came to a pause in front of her, and Mrs. Britling stopped beside
him. The young lady looked up and smiled.

"The last new novel?" asked Mr. Direck pleasantly.

"Campanella's 'City of the Sun.'"

"My word! but isn't that stiff reading?"

"You haven't read it," said Miss Corner.

"It's a dry old book anyhow."

"It's no good pretending you have," she said, and there Mr. Direck felt the conversation had
to end.

"That's a very pleasant young lady to have about," he said to Mrs. Britling as they went on
towards the barn court.

"She's all at loose ends," said Mrs. Britling. "And she reads like a--Whatever does read? One
drinks like a fish. One eats like a wolf."

They found the German tutor in a little court playing Badminton with the two younger boys.
He was a plump young man with glasses and compact gestures; the game progressed chiefly by
misses and the score was counted in German. He won thoughtfully and chiefly through the ardour
of the younger brother, whose enthusiastic returns invariably went out. Instantly the boys
attacked Mrs. Britling with a concerted enthusiasm. "Mummy! Is it to be dressing-up supper?"

Mrs. Britling considered, and it was manifest that Mr. Direck was material to her answer.

"We wrap ourselves up in curtains and bright things instead of dressing," she explained. "We
have a sort of wardrobe of fancy dresses. Do you mind?"

Mr. Direck was delighted.

And this being settled, the two small boys went off with their mother upon some special decorative
project they had conceived and Mr. Direck was left for a time to Herr Heinrich.

Herr Heinrich suggested a stroll in the rose garden, and as Mr. Direck had not hitherto been
shown the rose garden by Herr Heinrich, he agreed. Sooner or later everybody, it was evident,
had got to show him that rose garden.

"And how do you like living in an English household?" said Mr. Direck, getting to business
at once. "It's interesting to an American to see this English establishment, and it must be
still more interesting to a German."

"I find it very different from Pomerania," said Herr Heinrich. "In some respects it is more
agreeable, in others less so. It is a pleasant life but it is not a serious life.

"At any time," continued Herr Heinrich, "some one may say, 'Let us do this thing,' or 'Let
us do that thing,' and then everything is disarranged.

"People walk into the house without ceremony. There is much kindness but no politeness. Mr.
Britling will go away for three or four days, and when he returns and I come forward to greet
him and bow, he will walk right past me, or he will say just like this, 'How do, Heinrich?'"

"Are you interested in Mr. Britling's writings?" Mr. Direck asked.

"There again I am puzzled. His work is known even in Germany. His articles are reprinted in
German and Austrian reviews. You would expect him to have a certain authority of manner. You
would expect there to be discussion at the table upon questions of philosophy and aesthetics....
It is not so. When I ask him questions it is often that they are not seriously answered. Sometimes
it is as if he did not like the questions I askt of him. Yesterday I askt of him did he agree
or did he not agree with Mr. Bernard Shaw. He just said--I wrote it down in my memoranda--he
said: 'Oh! Mixt Pickles.' What can one understand of that?--Mixt Pickles!"...

The young man's sedulous blue eyes looked out of his pink face through his glasses at Mr. Direck,
anxious for any light he could offer upon the atmospheric vagueness of this England.

He was, he explained, a student of philology preparing for his doctorate. He had not yet done
his year of military service. He was studying the dialects of East Anglia--

"You go about among the people?" Mr. Direck inquired.

"No, I do not do that. But I ask Mr. Carmine and Mrs. Britling and the boys many questions.
And sometimes I talk to the gardener."

He explained how he would prepare his thesis and how it would be accepted, and the nature of
his army service and the various stages by which he would subsequently ascend in the orderly
professorial life to which he was destined. He confessed a certain lack of interest in philology,
but, he said, "it is what I have to do." And so he was going to do it all his life through.
For his own part he was interested in ideas of universal citizenship, in Esperanto and Ido
and universal languages and such-like attacks upon the barriers between man and man. But the
authorities at home did not favour cosmopolitan ideas, and so he was relinquishing them. "Here,
it is as if there were no authorities," he said with a touch of envy.

Mr. Direck induced him to expand that idea.

Herr Heinrich made Mr. Britling his instance. If Mr. Britling were a German he would certainly
have some sort of title, a definite position, responsibility. Here he was not even called Herr
Doktor. He said what he liked. Nobody rewarded him; nobody reprimanded him. When Herr Heinrich
asked him of his position, whether he was above or below Mr. Bernard Shaw or Mr. Arnold White
or Mr. Garvin or any other publicist, he made jokes. Nobody here seemed to have a title and
nobody seemed to have a definite place. There was Mr. Lawrence Carmine; he was a student of
Oriental questions; he had to do with some public institution in London that welcomed Indian
students; he was a Geheimrath--

"Eh?" said Mr. Direck.

"It is--what do they call it? the Essex County Council." But nobody took any notice of that.
And when Mr. Philbert, who was a minister in the government, came to lunch he was just like
any one else. It was only after he had gone that Herr Heinrich had learnt by chance that he
was a minister and "Right Honourable...."

"In Germany everything is definite. Every man knows his place, has his papers, is instructed
what to do...."

"Yet," said Mr. Direck, with his eyes on the glowing roses, the neat arbour, the long line
of the red wall of the vegetable garden and a distant gleam of cornfield, "it all looks orderly
enough."

"It is as if it had been put in order ages ago," said Herr Heinrich.

"And was just going on by habit," said Mr. Direck, taking up the idea.

Their comparisons were interrupted by the appearance of "Teddy," the secretary, and the Indian
young gentleman, damp and genial, as they explained, "from the boats." It seemed that "down
below" somewhere was a pond with a punt and an island and a toy dinghy. And while they discussed
swimming and boating, Mr. Carmine appeared from the direction of the park conversing gravely
with the elder son. They had been for a walk and a talk together. There were proposals for
a Badminton foursome. Mr. Direck emerged from the general interchange with Mr. Lawrence Carmine,
and then strolled through the rose garden to see the sunset from the end. Mr. Direck took the
opportunity to verify his impression that the elder son was the present Mrs. Britling's stepson,
and he also contrived by a sudden admiration for a distant row of evening primroses to deflect
their path past the arbour in which the evening light must now be getting a little too soft
for Miss Corner's book.

Miss Corner was drawn into the sunset party. She talked to Mr. Carmine and displayed, Mr. Direck
thought, great originality of mind. She said "The City of the Sun" was like the cities the
boys sometimes made on the playroom floor. She said it was the dearest little city, and gave
some amusing particulars. She described the painted walls that made the tour of the Civitas
Solis a liberal education. She asked Mr. Carmine, who was an authority on Oriental literature,
why there were no Indian nor Chinese Utopias.

Now it had never occurred to Mr. Direck to ask why there were no Indian nor Chinese Utopias,
and even Mr. Carmine seemed surprised to discover this deficiency.

"The primitive patriarchal village is Utopia to India and China," said Mr. Carmine, when they
had a little digested the inquiry. "Or at any rate it is their social ideal. They want no Utopias."

"Utopias came with cities," he said, considering the question. "And the first cities, as distinguished
from courts and autocratic capitals, came with ships. India and China belong to an earlier
age. Ships, trade, disorder, strange relationships, unofficial literature, criticism--and then
this idea of some novel remaking of society...."

Section 8

Then Mr. Direck fell into the hands of Hugh, the eldest son, and anticipating the inevitable,
said that he liked to walk in the rose garden. So they walked in the rose garden.

"Do you read Utopias?" said Mr. Direck, cutting any preface, in the English manner.

"Oh, rather!" said Hugh, and became at once friendly and confidential.

"We all do," he explained. "In England everybody talks of change and nothing ever changes."

"I found Miss Corner reading--what was it? the Sun People?--some old classical Italian work."

"Campanella," said Hugh, without betraying the slightest interest in Miss Corner. "Nothing
changes in England, because the people who want to change things change their minds before
they change anything else. I've been in London talking for the last half-year. Studying art
they call it. Before that I was a science student, and I want to be one again. Don't you think,
Sir, there's something about science--it's steadier than anything else in the world?"

Mr. Direck thought that the moral truths of human nature were steadier than science, and they
had one of those little discussions of real life that begin about a difference inadequately
apprehended, and do not so much end as are abandoned. Hugh struck him as being more speculative
and detached than any American college youth of his age that he knew--but that might not be
a national difference but only the Britling strain. He seemed to have read more and more independently,
and to be doing less. And he was rather more restrained and self-possessed.

Before Mr. Direck could begin a proper inquiry into the young man's work and outlook, he had
got the conversation upon America. He wanted tremendously to see America. "The dad says in
one of his books that over here we are being and that over there you are beginning. It must
be tremendously stimulating to think that your country is still being made...."

Mr. Direck thought that an interesting point of view. "Unless something tumbles down here,
we never think of altering it," the young man remarked. "And even then we just shore it up."

His remarks had the effect of floating off from some busy mill of thought within him. Hitherto
Mr. Direck had been inclined to think this silent observant youth, with his hands in his pockets
and his shoulders a little humped, as probably shy and adolescently ineffective. But the head
was manifestly quite busy....

"Miss Corner," he began, taking the first thing that came into his head, and then he remembered
that he had already made the remark he was going to make not five minutes ago.

"What form of art," he asked, "are you contemplating in your studies at the present time in
London?"....

Before this question could be dealt with at all adequately, the two small boys became active
in the garden beating in everybody to "dress-up" before supper. The secretary, Teddy, came
in a fatherly way to look after Mr. Direck and see to his draperies.

Section 9

Mr. Direck gave his very best attention to this business of draping himself, for he had not
the slightest intention of appearing ridiculous in the eyes of Miss Corner. Teddy came with
an armful of stuff that he thought "might do."

"What'll I come as?" asked Mr. Direck.

"We don't wear costumes," said Teddy. "We just put on all the brightest things we fancy. If
it's any costume at all, it's Futurist."

"And surely why shouldn't one?" asked Mr. Direck, greatly struck by this idea. "Why should
we always be tied by the fashions and periods of the past?"

He rejected a rather Mephistopheles-like costume of crimson and a scheme for a brigand-like
ensemble based upon what was evidently an old bolero of Mrs. Britling's, and after some reflection
he accepted some black silk tights. His legs were not legs to be ashamed of. Over this he tried
various brilliant wrappings from the Dower House armoire, and chose at last, after some hesitation
in the direction of a piece of gold and purple brocade, a big square of green silk curtain
stuff adorned with golden pheasants and other large and dignified ornaments; this he wore toga
fashion over his light silken under-vest--Teddy had insisted on the abandonment of his shirt
"if you want to dance at all"--and fastened with a large green glass-jewelled brooch. From
this his head and neck projected, he felt, with a tolerable dignity. Teddy suggested a fillet
of green ribbon, and this Mr. Direck tried, but after prolonged reflection before the glass
rejected. He was still weighing the effect of this fillet upon the mind of Miss Corner when
Teddy left him to make his own modest preparations. Teddy's departure gave him a chance for
profile studies by means of an arrangement of the long mirror and the table looking-glass that
he had been too shy to attempt in the presence of the secretary. The general effect was quite
satisfactory.

"Wa-a-a-l," he said with a quaver of laughter, "now who'd have thought it?" and smiled a consciously
American smile at himself before going down.

The company was assembling in the panelled hall, and made a brilliant show in the light of
the acetylene candles against the dark background. Mr. Britling in a black velvet cloak and
black silk tights was a deeper shade among the shadows; the high lights were Miss Corner and
her sister, in glittering garments of peacock green and silver that gave a snake-like quality
to their lithe bodies. They were talking to the German tutor, who had become a sort of cotton
Cossack, a spectacled Cossack in buff and bright green. Mrs. Britling was dignified and beautiful
in a purple djibbah, and her stepson had become a handsome still figure of black and crimson.
Teddy had contrived something elaborate and effective in the Egyptian style, with a fish-basket
and a cuirass of that thin matting one finds behind washstands; the small boys were brigands,
with immensely baggy breeches and cummerbunds in which they had stuck a selection of paper-knives
and toy pistols and similar weapons. Mr. Carmine and his young man had come provided with real
Indian costumes; the feeling of the company was that Mr. Carmine was a mullah. The aunt-like
lady with the noble nose stood out amidst these levities in a black silk costume with a gold
chain. She refused, it seemed, to make herself absurd, though she encouraged the others to
extravagance by nods and enigmatical smiles. Nevertheless she had put pink ribbons in her cap.
A family of father, golden-haired mother, and two young daughters, sympathetically attired,
had just arrived, and were discarding their outer wrappings with the assistance of host and
hostess.

It was all just exactly what Mr. Direck had never expected in England, and equally unexpected
was the supper on a long candle-lit table without a cloth. No servants were present, but on
a sideboard stood a cold salmon and cold joints and kalter aufschnitt and kartoffel salat,
and a variety of other comestibles, and many bottles of beer and wine and whisky. One helped
oneself and anybody else one could, and Mr. Direck did his best to be very attentive to Mrs.
Britling and Miss Corner, and was greatly assisted by the latter.

Everybody seemed unusually gay and bright-eyed. Mr. Direck found something exhilarating and
oddly exciting in all this unusual bright costume and in this easy mutual service; it made
everybody seem franker and simpler. Even Mr. Britling had revealed a sturdy handsomeness that
had not been apparent to Mr. Direck before, and young Britling left no doubts now about his
good looks. Mr. Direck forgot his mission and his position, and indeed things generally, in
an irrational satisfaction that his golden pheasants harmonised with the glitter of the warm
and smiling girl beside him. And he sat down beside her--"You sit anywhere," said Mrs. Britling--with
far less compunction than in his ordinary costume he would have felt for so direct a confession
of preference. And there was something in her eyes, it was quite indefinable and yet very satisfying,
that told him that now he escaped from the stern square imperatives of his patriotic tailor
in New York she had made a discovery of him.

Everybody chattered gaily, though Mr. Direck would have found it difficult to recall afterwards
what it was they chattered about, except that somehow he acquired the valuable knowledge that
Miss Corner was called Cecily, and her sister Letty, and then--so far old Essex custom held--the
masculine section was left for a few minutes for some imaginary drinking, and a lighting of
cigars and cigarettes, after which everybody went through interwoven moonlight and afterglow
to the barn. Mr. Britling sat down to a pianola in the corner and began the familiar cadences
of "Whistling Rufus."

"You dance?" said Miss Cecily Corner.

"I've never been much of a dancing man," said Mr. Direck. "What sort of dance is this?"

"Just anything. A two-step."

Mr. Direck hesitated and regretted a well-spent youth, and then Hugh came prancing forward
with outstretched hands and swept her away.

Just for an instant Mr. Direck felt that this young man was a trifle superfluous....

But it was very amusing dancing.

It wasn't any sort of taught formal dancing. It was a spontaneous retort to the leaping American
music that Mr. Britling footed out. You kept time, and for the rest you did as your nature
prompted. If you had a partner you joined hands, you fluttered to and from one another, you
paced down the long floor together, you involved yourselves in romantic pursuits and repulsions
with other couples. There was no objection to your dancing alone. Teddy, for example, danced
alone in order to develop certain Egyptian gestures that were germinating in his brain. There
was no objection to your joining hands in a cheerful serpent....

Mr. Direck hung on to Cissie and her partner. They danced very well together; they seemed to
like and understand each other. It was natural of course for two young people like that, thrown
very much together, to develop an affection for one another.... Still, she was older by three
or four years.

It seemed unreasonable that the boy anyhow shouldn't be in love with her....

It seemed unreasonable that any one shouldn't be in love with her....

Then Mr. Direck remarked that Cissie was watching Teddy's manoeuvres over her partner's shoulder
with real affection and admiration....

But then most refreshingly she picked up Mr. Direck's gaze and gave him the slightest of smiles.
She hadn't forgotten him.

The music stopped with an effect of shock, and all the bobbing, whirling figures became walking
glories.

"Now that's not difficult, is it?" said Miss Corner, glowing happily.

"Not when you do it," said Mr. Direck.

"I can't imagine an American not dancing a two-step. You must do the next with me. Listen!
It's 'Away Down Indiana' ... ah! I knew you could."

Mr. Direck, too, understood now that he could, and they went off holding hands rather after
the fashion of two skaters.

"My word!" said Mr. Direck. "To think I'd be dancing."

But he said no more because he needed his breath.

He liked it, and he had another attempt with one of the visitor daughters, who danced rather
more formally, and then Teddy took the pianola and Mr. Direck was astonished by the spectacle
of an eminent British thinker in a whirl of black velvet and extremely active black legs engaged
in a kind of Apache dance in pursuit of the visitor wife. In which Mr. Lawrence Carmine suddenly
mingled.

"In Germany," said Herr Heinrich, "we do not dance like this. It could not be considered seemly.
But it is very pleasant."

And then there was a waltz, and Herr Heinrich bowed to and took the visitor wife round three
times, and returned her very punctually and exactly to the point whence he had taken her, and
the Indian young gentleman (who must not be called "coloured") waltzed very well with Cecily.
Mr. Direck tried to take a tolerant European view of this brown and white combination. But
he secured her as soon as possible from this Asiatic entanglement, and danced with her again,
and then he danced with her again.

"Come and look at the moonlight," cried Mrs. Britling.

And presently Mr. Direck found himself strolling through the rose garden with Cecily. She had
the sweetest moonlight face, her white shining robe made her a thing of moonlight altogether.
If Mr. Direck had not been in love with her before he was now altogether in love. Mamie Nelson,
whose freakish unkindness had been rankling like a poisoned thorn in his heart all the way
from Massachusetts, suddenly became Ancient History.

A tremendous desire for eloquence arose in Mr. Direck's soul, a desire so tremendous that no
conceivable phrase he could imagine satisfied it. So he remained tongue-tied. And Cecily was
tongue-tied, too. The scent of the roses just tinted the clear sweetness of the air they breathed.

Mr. Direck's mood was an immense solemnity, like a dark ocean beneath the vast dome of the
sky, and something quivered in every fibre of his being, like moonlit ripples on the sea. He
felt at the same time a portentous stillness and an immense enterprise....

Then suddenly the pianola, pounding a cake walk, burst out into ribald invitation....

"Come back to dance!" cried Cecily, like one from whom a spell has just been broken. And Mr.
Direck, snatching at a vanishing scrap of everything he had not said, remarked, "I shall never
forget this evening."

She did not seem to hear that.

They danced together again. And then Mr. Direck danced with the visitor lady, whose name he
had never heard. And then he danced with Mrs. Britling, and then he danced with Letty. And
then it seemed time for him to look for Miss Cecily again.

And so the cheerful evening passed until they were within a quarter of an hour of Sunday morning.
Mrs. Britling went to exert a restraining influence upon the pianola.

"Oh! one dance more!" cried Cissie Corner.

"Oh! one dance more!" cried Letty.

"One dance more," Mr. Direck supported, and then things really had to end.

There was a rapid putting out of candles and a stowing away of things by Teddy and the sons,
two chauffeurs appeared from the region of the kitchen and brought Mr. Lawrence Carmine's car
and the visitor family's car to the front door, and everybody drifted gaily through the moonlight
and the big trees to the front of the house. And Mr. Direck saw the perambulator waiting--the
mysterious perambulator--a little in the dark beyond the front door.

The visitor family and Mr. Carmine and his young Indian departed. "Come to hockey!" shouted
Mr. Britling to each departing car-load, and Mr. Carmine receding answered: "I'll bring three!"

Then Mr. Direck, in accordance with a habit that had been growing on him throughout the evening,
looked around for Miss Cissie Corner and failed to find her. And then behold she was descending
the staircase with the mysterious baby in her arms. She held up a warning finger, and then
glanced at her sleeping burthen. She looked like a silvery Madonna. And Mr. Direck remembered
that he was still in doubt about that baby....

Teddy, who was back in his flannels, seized upon the perambulator. There was much careful baby
stowing on the part of Cecily; she displayed an infinitely maternal solicitude. Letty was away
changing; she reappeared jauntily taking leave, disregarding the baby absolutely, and Teddy
departed bigamously, wheeling the perambulator between the two sisters into the hazes of the
moonlight. There was much crying of good nights. Mr. Direck's curiosities narrowed down to
a point of great intensity....

Of course, Mr. Britling's circle must be a very "Advanced" circle....

Section 10

Mr. Direck found he had taken leave of the rest of the company, and drifted into a little parlour
with Mr. Britling and certain glasses and siphons and a whisky decanter on a tray....

"It is a very curious thing," said Mr. Direck, "that in England I find myself more disposed
to take stimulants and that I no longer have the need for iced water that one feels at home.
I ascribe it to a greater humidity in the air. One is less dried and one is less braced. One
is no longer pursued by a thirst, but one needs something to buck one up a little. Thank you.
That is enough."

Mr. Direck took his glass of whisky and soda from Mr. Britling's hand.

Mr. Britling seated himself in an armchair by the fireplace and threw one leg carelessly over
the arm. In his black velvet cloak and cap, and his black silk tights, he was very like a minor
character, a court chamberlain for example, in some cloak and rapier drama. "I find this week-end
dancing and kicking about wonderfully wholesome," he said. "That and our Sunday hockey. One
starts the new week clear and bright about the mind. Friday is always my worst working day."

Mr. Direck leant against the table, wrapped in his golden pheasants, and appreciated the point.

"Your young people dance very cheerfully," he said.

"We all dance very cheerfully," said Mr. Britling.

"Then this Miss Corner," said Mr. Direck, "she is the sister, I presume, is she? of that pleasant
young lady who is married--she is married, isn't she?--to the young man you call Teddy."

"I should have explained these young people. They're the sort of young people we are producing
over here now in quite enormous quantity. They are the sort of equivalent of the Russian Intelligentsia,
an irresponsible middle class with ideas. Teddy, you know, is my secretary. He's the son, I
believe, of a Kilburn solicitor. He was recommended to me by Datcher of The Times. He came
down here and lived in lodgings for a time. Then suddenly appeared the young lady."

"Miss Corner's sister?"

"Exactly. The village was a little startled. The cottager who had let the rooms came to me
privately. Teddy is rather touchy on the point of his personal independence, he considers any
demand for explanations as an insult, and probably all he had said to the old lady was, 'This
is Letty--come to share my rooms.' I put the matter to him very gently. 'Oh, yes,' he said,
rather in the manner of some one who has overlooked a trifle. 'I got married to her in the
Christmas holidays. May I bring her along to see Mrs. Britling?' We induced him to go into
a little cottage I rent. The wife was the daughter of a Colchester journalist and printer.
I don't know if you talked to her."

"I've talked to the sister rather."

"Well, they're both idea'd. They're highly educated in the sense that they do really think
for themselves. Almost fiercely. So does Teddy. If he thinks he hasn't thought anything he
thinks for himself, he goes off and thinks it different. The sister is a teacher who wants
to take the B.A. degree in London University. Meanwhile she pays the penalty of her sex."

"Meaning--?" asked Mr. Direck, startled.

"Oh! that she puts in a great deal too much of her time upon housework and minding her sister's
baby."

"She's a very interesting and charming young lady indeed," said Mr. Direck. "With a sort of
Western college freedom of mind--and something about her that isn't American at all."

Mr. Britling was following the train of his own thoughts.

"My household has some amusing contrasts," he said. "I don't know if you have talked to that
German.

"He's always asking questions. And you tell him any old thing and he goes and writes it down
in his room upstairs, and afterwards asks you another like it in order to perplex himself by
the variety of your answers. He regards the whole world with a methodical distrust. He wants
to document it and pin it down. He suspects it only too justly of disorderly impulses, and
a capacity for self-contradiction. He is the most extraordinary contrast to Teddy, whose confidence
in the universe amounts almost to effrontery. Teddy carries our national laxness to a foolhardy
extent. He is capable of leaving his watch in the middle of Claverings Park and expecting to
find it a month later--being carefully taken care of by a squirrel, I suppose--when he happens
to want it. He's rather like a squirrel himself--without the habit of hoarding. He is incapable
of asking a question about anything; he would be quite sure it was all right anyhow. He would
feel that asking questions betrayed a want of confidence--was a sort of incivility. But my
German, if you notice,--his normal expression is one of grave solicitude. He is like a conscientious
ticket-collector among his impressions. And did you notice how beautifully my pianola rolls
are all numbered and catalogued? He did that. He set to work and did it as soon as he got here,
just as a good cat when you bring it into the house sets to work and catches mice. Previously
the pianola music was chaos. You took what God sent you.

"And he looks like a German," said Mr. Britling.

"He certainly does that," said Mr. Direck.

"He has the fair type of complexion, the rather full habit of body, the temperamental disposition,
but in addition that close-cropped head, it is almost as if it were shaved, the plumpness,
the glasses--those are things that are made. And the way he carries himself. And the way he
thinks. His meticulousness. When he arrived he was delightful, he was wearing a student's corps
cap and a rucksack, he carried a violin; he seemed to have come out of a book. No one would
ever dare to invent so German a German for a book. Now, a young Frenchman or a young Italian
or a young Russian coming here might look like a foreigner, but he wouldn't have the distinctive
national stamp a German has. He wouldn't be plainly French or Italian or Russian. Other peoples
are not made; they are neither made nor created but proceeding--out of a thousand indefinable
causes. The Germans are a triumph of directive will. I had to remark the other day that when
my boys talked German they shouted. 'But when one talks German one must shout,' said Herr Heinrich.
'It is taught so in the schools.' And it is. They teach them to shout and to throw out their
chests. Just as they teach them to read notice-boards and not think about politics. Their very
ribs are not their own. My Herr Heinrich is comparatively a liberal thinker. He asked me the
other day, 'But why should I give myself up to philology? But then,' he reflected, 'it is what
I have to do.'"

Mr. Britling seemed to have finished, and then just as Mr. Direck was planning a way of getting
the talk back by way of Teddy to Miss Corner, he snuggled more deeply into his chair, reflected
and broke out again.

"This contrast between Heinrich's carefulness and Teddy's easy-goingness, come to look at it,
is I suppose one of the most fundamental in the world. It reaches to everything. It mixes up
with education, statecraft, morals. Will you make or will you take? Those are the two extreme
courses in all such things. I suppose the answer of wisdom to that is, like all wise answers,
a compromise. I suppose one must accept and then make all one can of it.... Have you talked
at all to my eldest son?"

"He's a very interesting young man indeed," said Mr. Direck. "I should venture to say there's
a very great deal in him. I was most impressed by the few words I had with him."

"There, for example, is one of my perplexities," said Mr. Britling.

Mr. Direck waited for some further light on this sudden transition.

"Ah! your troubles in life haven't begun yet. Wait till you're a father. That cuts to the bone.
You have the most delicate thing in the world in hand, a young kindred mind. You feel responsible
for it, you know you are responsible for it; and you lose touch with it. You can't get at it.
Nowadays we've lost the old tradition of fatherhood by divine right--and we haven't got a new
one. I've tried not to be a cramping ruler, a director, a domestic tyrant to that lad--and
in effect it's meant his going his own way.... I don't dominate. I hoped to advise. But you
see he loves my respect and good opinion. Too much. When things go well I know of them. When
the world goes dark for him, then he keeps his trouble from me. Just when I would so eagerly
go into it with him.... There's something the matter now, something--it may be grave. I feel
he wants to tell me. And there it is!--it seems I am the last person to whom he can humiliate
himself by a confession of blundering, or weakness.... Something I should just laugh at and
say, 'That's in the blood of all of us, dear Spit of myself. Let's see what's to be done.'..."

He paused and then went on, finding in the unfamiliarity and transitoriness of his visitor
a freedom he might have failed to find in a close friend.

"I am frightened at times at all I don't know about in that boy's mind. I know nothing of his
religiosities. He's my son and he must have religiosities. I know nothing of his ideas or of
his knowledge about sex and all that side of life. I do not know of the things he finds beautiful.
I can guess at times; that's all; when he betrays himself.... You see, you don't know really
what love is until you have children. One doesn't love women. Indeed you don't! One gives and
gets; it's a trade. One may have tremendous excitements and expectations and overwhelming desires.
That's all very well in its way. But the love of children is an exquisite tenderness: it rends
the heart. It's a thing of God. And I lie awake at nights and stretch out my hands in the darkness
to this lad--who will never know--until his sons come in their time...."

He made one of his quick turns again.

"And that's where our English way makes for distresses. Mr. Prussian respects and fears his
father; respects authorities, attends, obeys and--his father has a hold upon him. But I said
to myself at the outset, 'No, whatever happens, I will not usurp the place of God. I will not
be the Priest-Patriarch of my children. They shall grow and I will grow beside them, helping
but not cramping or overshadowing.' They grow more. But they blunder more. Life ceases to be
a discipline and becomes an experiment...."

"That's very true," said Mr. Direck, to whom it seemed the time was ripe to say something.
"This is the problem of America perhaps even more than of England. Though I have not had the
parental experience you have undergone.... I can see very clearly that a son is a very serious
proposition."

"The old system of life was organisation. That is where Germany is still the most ancient of
European states. It's a reversion to a tribal cult. It's atavistic.... To organise or discipline,
or mould characters or press authority, is to assume that you have reached finality in your
general philosophy. It implies an assured end. Heinrich has his assured end, his philological
professorship or thereabouts as a part of the Germanic machine. And that too has its assured
end in German national assertion. Here, we have none of those convictions. We know we haven't
finality, and so we are open and apologetic and receptive, rather than wilful.... You see all
organisation, with its implication of finality, is death. We feel that. The Germans don't.
What you organise you kill. Organised morals or organised religion or organised thought are
dead morals and dead religion and dead thought. Yet some organisation you must have. Organisation
is like killing cattle. If you do not kill some the herd is just waste. But you musn't kill
all or you kill the herd. The unkilled cattle are the herd, the continuation; the unorganised
side of life is the real life. The reality of life is adventure, not performance. What isn't
adventure isn't life. What can be ruled about can be machined. But priests and schoolmasters
and bureaucrats get hold of life and try to make it all rules, all etiquette and regulation
and correctitude.... And parents and the love of parents make for the same thing. It is all
very well to experiment for oneself, but when one sees these dear things of one's own, so young
and inexperienced and so capable of every sort of gallant foolishness, walking along the narrow
plank, going down into dark jungles, ah! then it makes one want to wrap them in laws and foresight
and fence them about with 'Verboten' boards in all the conceivable aspects...."

"In America of course we do set a certain store upon youthful self-reliance," said Mr. Direck.

"As we do here. It's in your blood and our blood. It's the instinct of the English and the
Irish anyhow to suspect government and take the risks of the chancy way.... And manifestly
the Russians, if you read their novelists, have the same twist in them.... When we get this
young Prussian here, he's a marvel to us. He really believes in Law. He likes to obey. That
seems a sort of joke to us. It's curious how foreign these Germans are--to all the rest of
the world. Because of their docility. Scratch the Russian and you get the Tartar. Educate the
Russian or the American or the Englishman or the Irishman or Frenchman or any real northern
European except the German, and you get the Anarchist, that is to say the man who dreams of
order without organisation--of something beyond organisation....

"It's one o'clock," said Mr. Britling abruptly, perceiving a shade of fatigue upon the face
of his hearer and realising that his thoughts had taken him too far, "and Sunday. Let's go to bed."

Section 11

For a time Mr. Direck could not sleep. His mind had been too excited by this incessant day
with all its novelties and all its provocations to comparison. The whole complicated spectacle
grouped itself, with a naturalness and a complete want of logic that all who have been young
will understand, about Cecily Corner.

She had to be in the picture, and so she came in as though she were the central figure, as
though she were the quintessential England. There she was, the type, the blood, the likeness,
of no end of Massachusetts families, the very same stuff indeed, and yet she was different....

For a time his thoughts hovered ineffectively about certain details of her ear and cheek, and
one may doubt if his interest in these things was entirely international....

Then he found himself under way with an exposition of certain points to Mr. Britling. In the
security of his bed he could imagine that he was talking very slowly and carefully while Mr.
Britling listened; already he was more than half way to dreamland or he could not have supposed
anything so incredible.

"There's a curious sort of difference," he was saying. "It is difficult to define, but on the
whole I might express it by saying that such a gathering as this if it was in America would
be drawn with harder lines, would show its bones more and have everything more emphatic. And
just to take one illustrative point: in America in such a gathering as this there would be
bound to be several jokes going on as it were, running jokes and running criticisms, from day
to day and from week to week.... There would be jokes about your writing and your influence
and jokes about Miss Corner's advanced reading.... You see, in America we pay much more attention
to personal character. Here people, I notice, are not talked to about their personal characters
at all, and many of them do not seem to be aware and do not seem to mind what personal characters
they have....

"And another thing I find noteworthy is the way in which what I might call mature people seem
to go on having a good time instead of standing by and applauding the young people having a
good time.... And the young people do not seem to have set out to have a good time at all....
Now in America, a charming girl like Miss Corner would be distinctly more aware of herself
and her vitality than she is here, distinctly more. Her peculiarly charming sidelong look,
if I might make so free with her--would have been called attention to. It's a perfectly beautiful
look, the sort of look some great artist would have loved to make immortal. It's a look I shall
find it hard to forget.... But she doesn't seem to be aware in the least of it. In America
she would be aware of it. She would be distinctly aware of it. She would have been made aware
of it. She would have been advised of it. It would be looked for and she would know it was
looked for. She would give it as a singer gives her most popular song. Mamie Nelson, for example,
used to give a peculiar little throw back of the chin and a laugh.... It was talked about.
People came to see it....

"Of course Mamie Nelson was a very brilliant girl indeed. I suppose in England you would say
we spoilt her. I suppose we did spoil her...."

It came into Mr. Direck's head that for a whole day he had scarcely given a thought to Mamie
Nelson. And now he was thinking of her--calmly. Why shouldn't one think of Mamie Nelson calmly?

She was a proud imperious thing. There was something Southern in her. Very dark blue eyes she
had, much darker than Miss Corner's....

But how tortuous she had been behind that outward pride of hers! For four years she had let
him think he was the only man who really mattered in the world, and all the time quite clearly
and definitely she had deceived him. She had made a fool of him and she had made a fool of
the others perhaps--just to have her retinue and play the queen in her world. And at last humiliation,
bitter humiliation, and Mamie with her chin in the air and her bright triumphant smile looking
down on him.

Hadn't he, she asked, had the privilege of loving her?

She took herself at the value they had set upon her.

Well--somehow--that wasn't right....

All the way across the Atlantic Mr. Direck had been trying to forget her downward glance with
the chin up, during that last encounter--and other aspects of the same humiliation. The years
he had spent upon her! The time! Always relying upon her assurance of a special preference
for him. He tried to think he was suffering from the pangs of unrequited love, and to conceal
from himself just how bitterly his pride and vanity had been rent by her ultimate rejection.
There had been a time when she had given him reason to laugh in his sleeve at Booth Wilmington.

Perhaps Booth Wilmington had also had reason for laughing in his sleeve....

Had she even loved Booth Wilmington? Or had she just snatched at him?...

Wasn't he, Direck, as good a man as Booth Wilmington anyhow?...

For some moments the old sting of jealousy rankled again. He recalled the flaring rivalry that
had ended in his defeat, the competition of gifts and treats.... A thing so open that all Carrierville
knew of it, discussed it, took sides.... And over it all Mamie with her flashing smile had
sailed like a processional goddess....

Why, they had made jokes about him in the newspapers!

One couldn't imagine such a contest in Matching's Easy. Yet surely even in Matching's Easy
there are lovers.

Is it something in the air, something in the climate that makes things harder and clearer in
America?...

Cissie--why shouldn't one call her Cissie in one's private thoughts anyhow?--would never be
as hard and clear as Mamie. She had English eyes--merciful eyes....

That was the word--merciful!

The English light, the English air, are merciful....

Merciful....

They tolerate old things and slow things and imperfect apprehensions. They aren't always getting
at you....

They don't laugh at you.... At least--they laugh differently....

Was England the tolerant country? With its kind eyes and its wary sidelong look. Toleration.
In which everything mellowed and nothing was destroyed. A soft country. A country with a passion
for imperfection. A padded country....

England--all stuffed with soft feathers ... under one's ear. A pillow--with soft, kind Corners
... Beautiful rounded Corners.... Dear, dear Corners. Cissie Corners. Corners. Could there
be a better family?

Massachusetts--but in heaven....

Harps playing two-steps, and kind angels wrapped in moonlight.

  Very softly I and you,
  One turn, two turn, three turn, too.
  Off we go!....

CHAPTER THE THIRD

THE ENTERTAINMENT OF MR. DIRECK REACHES A CLIMAX

Section 1

Breakfast was in the open air, and a sunny, easy-going feast. Then the small boys laid hands
on Mr. Direck and showed him the pond and the boats, while Mr. Britling strolled about the
lawn with Hugh, talking rather intently. And when Mr. Direck returned from the boats in a state
of greatly enhanced popularity he found Mr. Britling conversing over his garden railings to
what was altogether a new type of Britisher in Mr. Direck's experience. It was a tall, lean,
sun-bitten youngish man of forty perhaps, in brown tweeds, looking more like the Englishman
of the American illustrations than anything Mr. Direck had met hitherto. Indeed he came very
near to a complete realisation of that ideal except that there was a sort of intensity about
him, and that his clipped moustache had the restrained stiffness of a wiry-haired terrier.
This gentleman Mr. Direck learnt was Colonel Rendezvous. He spoke in clear short sentences,
they had an effect of being punched out, and he was refusing to come into the garden and talk.

"Have to do my fourteen miles before lunch," he said. "You haven't seen Manning about, have you?"

"He isn't here," said Mr. Britling, and it seemed to Mr. Direck that there was the faintest
ambiguity in this reply.

"Have to go alone, then," said Colonel Rendezvous. "They told me that he had started to come here."

"I shall motor over to Bramley High Oak for your Boy Scout festival," said Mr. Britling.

"Going to have three thousand of 'em," said the Colonel. "Good show."

His steely eyes seemed to search the cover of Mr. Britling's garden for the missing Manning,
and then he decided to give him up. "I must be going," he said. "So long. Come up!"

A well-disciplined dog came to heel, and the lean figure had given Mr. Direck a semi-military
salutation and gone upon its way. It marched with a long elastic stride; it never looked back.

"Manning," said Mr. Britling, "is probably hiding up in my rose garden."

"Curiously enough, I guessed from your manner that that might be the case," said Mr. Direck.

"Yes. Manning is a London journalist. He has a little cottage about a mile over there"--Mr.
Britling pointed vaguely--"and he comes down for the week-ends. And Rendezvous has found out
he isn't fit. And everybody ought to be fit. That is the beginning and end of life for Rendezvous.
Fitness. An almost mineral quality, an insatiable activity of body, great mental simplicity.
So he takes possession of poor old Manning and trots him for that fourteen miles--at four miles
an hour. Manning goes through all the agonies of death and damnation, he half dissolves, he
pants and drags for the first eight or ten miles, and then I must admit he rather justifies
Rendezvous' theory. He is to be found in the afternoon in a hammock suffering from blistered
feet, but otherwise unusually well. But if he can escape it, he does. He hides."

"But if he doesn't want to go with Rendezvous, why does he?" said Mr. Direck.

"Well, Rendezvous is accustomed to the command of men. And Manning's only way of refusing things
is on printed forms. Which he doesn't bring down to Matching's Easy. Ah! behold!"

Far away across the lawn between two blue cedars there appeared a leisurely form in grey flannels
and a loose tie, advancing with manifest circumspection.

"He's gone," cried Britling.

The leisurely form, obviously amiable, obviously a little out of condition, became more confident,
drew nearer.

"I'm sorry to have missed him," he said cheerfully. "I thought he might come this way. It's
going to be a very warm day indeed. Let us sit about somewhere and talk.

"Of course," he said, turning to Direck, "Rendezvous is the life and soul of the country."

They strolled towards a place of seats and hammocks between the big trees and the rose garden,
and the talk turned for a time upon Rendezvous. "They have the tidiest garden in Essex," said
Manning. "It's not Mrs. Rendezvous' fault that it is so. Mrs. Rendezvous, as a matter of fact,
has a taste for the picturesque. She just puts the things about in groups in the beds. She
wants them, she says, to grow anyhow. She desires a romantic disorder. But she never gets it.
When he walks down the path all the plants dress instinctively.... And there's a tree near
their gate; it used to be a willow. You can ask any old man in the village. But ever since
Rendezvous took the place it's been trying to present arms. With the most extraordinary results.
I was passing the other day with old Windershin. 'You see that there old poplar,' he said.
'It's a willow,' said I. 'No,' he said, 'it did used to be a willow before Colonel Rendezvous
he came. But now it's a poplar.'... And, by Jove, it is a poplar!"...

The conversation thus opened by Manning centred for a time upon Colonel Rendezvous. He was
presented as a monster of energy and self-discipline; as the determined foe of every form of
looseness, slackness, and easy-goingness.

"He's done wonderful work for the local Boy Scout movement," said Manning.

"It's Kitchenerism," said Britling.

"It's the army side of the efficiency stunt," said Manning.

There followed a digression upon the Boy Scout movement, and Mr. Direck made comparisons with
the propaganda of Seton Thompson in America. "Colonel Teddyism," said Manning. "It's a sort
of reaction against everything being too easy and too safe."

"It's got its anti-decadent side," said Mr. Direck.

"If there is such a thing as decadence," said Mr. Britling.

"If there wasn't such a thing as decadence," said Manning, "we journalists would have had to
invent it."...

"There is something tragical in all this--what shall I call it?--Kitchenerism," Mr. Britling
reflected "Here you have it rushing about and keeping itself--screwed up, and trying desperately
to keep the country screwed up. And all because there may be a war some day somehow with Germany.
Provided Germany is insane. It's that war, like some sort of bee in Rendezvous' brains, that
is driving him along the road now to Market Saffron--he always keeps to the roads because they
are severer--through all the dust and sunshine. When he might be here gossiping....

"And you know, I don't see that war coming," said Mr. Britling. "I believe Rendezvous sweats
in vain. I can't believe in that war. It has held off for forty years. It may hold off forever."

He nodded his head towards the German tutor, who had come into view across the lawn, talking
profoundly with Mr. Britling's eldest son.

"Look at that pleasant person. There he is--Echt Deutsch--if anything ever was. Look at my
son there! Do you see the two of them engaged in mortal combat? The thing's too ridiculous.
The world grows sane. They may fight in the Balkans still; in many ways the Balkan States are
in the very rear of civilisation; but to imagine decent countries like this or Germany going
back to bloodshed! No.... When I see Rendezvous keeping it up and keeping it up, I begin to
see just how poor Germany must be keeping it up. I begin to realise how sick Germany must be
getting of the high road and the dust and heat and the everlasting drill and restraint....
My heart goes out to the South Germans. Old Manning here always reminds me of Austria. Think
of Germany coming like Rendezvous on a Sunday morning, and looking stiffly over Austria's fence.
'Come for a good hard walk, man. Keep Fit....'"

"But suppose this Balkan trouble becomes acute," said Manning.

"It hasn't; it won't. Even if it did we should keep out of it."

"But suppose Russia grappled Austria and Germany flung herself suddenly upon France--perhaps
taking Belgium on the way."

"Oh!--we should fight. Of course we should fight. Could any one but a congenital idiot suppose
we shouldn't fight? They know we should fight. They aren't altogether idiots in Germany. But
the thing's absurd. Why should Germany attack France? It's as if Manning here took a hatchet
suddenly and assailed Edith.... It's just the dream of their military journalists. It's such
schoolboy nonsense. Isn't that a beautiful pillar rose? Edith only put it in last year....
I hate all this talk of wars and rumours of wars.... It's worried all my life. And it gets
worse and it gets emptier every year...."

Section 2

Now just at that moment there was a loud report....

But neither Mr. Britling nor Mr. Manning nor Mr. Direck was interrupted or incommoded in the
slightest degree by that report. Because it was too far off over the curve of this round world
to be either heard or seen at Matching's Easy. Nevertheless it was a very loud report. It occurred
at an open space by a river that ran through a cramped Oriental city, a city spiked with white
minarets and girt about by bare hills under a blazing afternoon sky. It came from a black parcel
that the Archduke Francis Ferdinand of Austria, with great presence of mind, had just flung
out from the open hood of his automobile, where, tossed from the side of the quay, it had descended
a few seconds before. It exploded as it touched the cobbled road just under the front of the
second vehicle in the procession, and it blew to pieces the front of the automobile and injured
the aide-de-camp who was in it and several of the spectators. Its thrower was immediately gripped
by the bystanders. The procession stopped. There was a tremendous commotion amongst that brightly-costumed
crowd, a hot excitement in vivid contrast to the Sabbath calm of Matching's Easy....

Mr. Britling, to whom the explosion was altogether inaudible, continued his dissertation upon
the common-sense of the world and the practical security of our Western peace.

Section 3

Lunch was an open-air feast again. Three visitors had dropped in; they had motored down from
London piled up on a motor-cycle and a side-car; a brother and two sisters they seemed to be,
and they had apparently reduced hilariousness to a principle. The rumours of coming hockey
that had been floating on the outskirts of Mr. Direck's consciousness ever since his arrival,
thickened and multiplied.... It crept into his mind that he was expected to play....

He decided he would not play. He took various people into his confidence. He told Mr. Britling,
and Mr. Britling said, "We'll make you full back, where you'll get a hit now and then and not
have very much to do. All you have to remember is to hit with the flat side of your stick and
not raise it above your shoulders." He told Teddy, and Teddy said, "I strongly advise you to
dress as thinly as you can consistently with decency, and put your collar and tie in your pocket
before the game begins. Hockey is properly a winter game." He told the maiden aunt-like lady
with the prominent nose, and she said almost enviously, "Every one here is asked to play except
me. I assuage the perambulator. I suppose one mustn't be envious. I don't see why I shouldn't
play. I'm not so old as all that." He told Hugh, and Hugh warned him to be careful not to get
hold of one of the sprung sticks. He considered whether it wouldn't be wiser to go to his own
room and lock himself in, or stroll off for a walk through Claverings Park. But then he would
miss Miss Corner, who was certain, it seemed, to come up for hockey. On the other hand, if
he did not miss her he might make himself ridiculous in her eyes, and efface the effect of
the green silk stuff with the golden pheasants.

He determined to stay behind until she arrived, and explain to her that he was not going to
play. He didn't somehow want her to think he wasn't perfectly fit to play.

Mr. Carmine arrived in an automobile with two Indians and a gentleman who had been a prospector
in Alaska, the family who had danced overnight at the Dower House reappeared, and then Mrs.
Teddy, very detached with a special hockey stick, and Miss Corner wheeling the perambulator.
Then came further arrivals. At the earliest opportunity Mr. Direck secured the attention of
Miss Corner, and lost his interest in any one else.

"I can't play this hockey," said Mr. Direck. "I feel strange about it. It isn't an American
game. Now if it were baseball--!"

He left her to suppose him uncommonly hot stuff at baseball.

"If you're on my side," said Cecily, "mind you pass to me."

It became evident to Mr. Direck that he was going to play this hockey after all.

"Well," he said, "if I've got to play hockey, I guess I've got to play hockey. But can't I
just get a bit of practice somewhere before the game begins?"

So Miss Corner went off to get two sticks and a ball and came back to instruct Mr. Direck.
She said he had a good eye. The two small boys scenting play in the air got sticks and joined
them. The overnight visitor's wife appeared from the house in abbreviated skirts, and wearing
formidable shin-guards. With her abundant fair hair, which was already breaking loose, so to
speak, to join the fray, she looked like a short stout dismounted Valkyr. Her gaze was clear
and firm.

Section 4

Hockey as it was played at the Dower House at Matching's Easy before the war, was a game combining
danger, physical exercise and kindliness in a very high degree. Except for the infant in the
perambulator and the outwardly calm but inwardly resentful aunt, who wheeled the child up and
down in a position of maximum danger just behind the unnetted goal, every one was involved.
Quite able-bodied people acquainted with the game played forward, the less well-informed played
a defensive game behind the forward line, elderly, infirm, and bulky persons were used chiefly
as obstacles in goal. Several players wore padded leg-guards, and all players were assumed
to have them and expected to behave accordingly.

Proceedings began with an invidious ceremony called picking up. This was heralded by Mr. Britling,
clad in the diaphanous flannels and bearing a hockey stick, advancing with loud shouts to the
centre of the hockey field. "Pick up! Pick up!" echoed the young Britlings.

Mr. Direck became aware of a tall, drooping man with long hair and long digressive legs in
still longer white flannel trousers, and a face that was somehow familiar. He was talking with
affectionate intimacy to Manning, and suddenly Mr. Direck remembered that it was in Manning's
weekly paper, The Sectarian, in which a bitter caricaturist enlivened a biting text, that he
had become familiar with the features of Manning's companion. It was Raeburn, Raeburn the insidious,
Raeburn the completest product of the party system.... Well, that was the English way. "Come
for the pick up!" cried the youngest Britling, seizing upon Mr. Direck's elbow. It appeared
that Mr. Britling and the overnight dinner guest--Mr. Direck never learnt his name--were picking
up.

Names were shouted. "I'll take Cecily!" Mr. Direck heard Mr. Britling say quite early. The
opposing sides as they were picked fell into two groups. There seemed to be difficulties about
some of the names. Mr. Britling, pointing to the more powerful looking of the Indian gentlemen,
said, "You, Sir."

"I'm going to speculate on Mr. Dinks," said Mr. Britling's opponent.

Mr. Direck gathered that Mr. Dinks was to be his hockey name.

"You're on our side," said Mrs. Teddy. "I think you'll have to play forward, outer right, and
keep a sharp eye on Cissie."

"I'll do what I can," said Mr. Direck.

His captain presently confirmed this appointment.

His stick was really a sort of club and the ball was a firm hard cricket ball.... He resolved
to be very gentle with Cecily, and see that she didn't get hurt.

The sides took their places for the game, and a kind of order became apparent to Mr. Direck.
In the centre stood Mr. Britling and the opposing captain, and the ball lay between them. They
were preparing to "bully off" and start the game. In a line with each of them were four other
forwards. They all looked spirited and intent young people, and Mr. Direck wished he had had
more exercise to justify his own alert appearance. Behind each centre forward hovered one of
the Britling boys. Then on each side came a vaguer row of three backs, persons of gentler disposition
or maturer years. They included Mr. Raeburn, who was considered to have great natural abilities
for hockey but little experience. Mr. Raeburn was behind Mr. Direck. Mrs. Britling was the
centre back. Then in a corner of Mr. Direck's side was a small girl of six or seven, and in
the half-circle about the goal a lady in a motoring dust coat and a very short little man whom
Mr. Direck had not previously remarked. Mr. Lawrence Carmine, stripped to the braces, which
were richly ornamented with Oriental embroidery, kept goal for our team.

The centre forwards went through a rapid little ceremony. They smote their sticks on the ground,
and then hit the sticks together. "One," said Mr. Britling. The operation was repeated. "Two,"
... "Three."

Smack, Mr. Britling had got it and the ball had gone to the shorter and sturdier of the younger
Britlings, who had been standing behind Mr. Direck's captain. Crack, and it was away to Teddy;
smack, and it was coming right at Direck.

"Lordy!" he said, and prepared to smite it.

Then something swift and blue had flashed before him, intercepted the ball and shot it past
him. This was Cecily Corner, and she and Teddy were running abreast like the wind towards Mr.
Raeburn.

"Hey!" cried Mr. Raeburn, "stop!" and advanced, as it seemed to Mr. Direck, with unseemly and
threatening gestures towards Cissie.

But before Mr. Direck could adjust his mind to this new phase of affairs, Cecily had passed
the right honourable gentleman with the same mysterious ease with which she had flashed by
Mr. Direck, and was bearing down upon the miscellaneous Landwehr which formed the "backs" of
Mr. Direck's side.

"You rabbit!" cried Mr. Raeburn, and became extraordinarily active in pursuit, administering
great lengths of arm and leg with a centralised efficiency he had not hitherto displayed.

Running hard to the help of Mr. Raeburn was the youngest Britling boy, a beautiful contrast.
It was like a puff ball supporting and assisting a conger eel. In front of Mr. Direck the little
stout man was being alert. Teddy was supporting the attack near the middle of the field, crying
"Centre!" while Mr. Britling, very round and resolute, was bouncing straight towards the threatened
goal. But Mrs. Teddy, running as swiftly as her sister, was between Teddy and the ball. Whack!
the little short man's stick had clashed with Cecily's. Confused things happened with sticks
and feet, and the little short man appeared to be trying to cut down Cecily as one cuts down
a tree, she tried to pass the ball to her centre forward--too late, and then Mrs. Teddy had
intercepted it, and was flickering back towards Mr. Britling's goal in a rush in which Mr.
Direck perceived it was his duty to join.

Yes, he had to follow up Mrs. Teddy and pick up the ball if he had a chance and send it in
to her or the captain or across to the left forwards, as circumstances might decide. It was
perfectly clear.

Then came his moment. The little formidably padded lady who had dined at the Dower House overnight,
made a gallant attack upon Mrs. Teddy. Out of the confusion of this clash the ball spun into
Mr. Direck's radius. Where should he smite and how? A moment of reflection was natural.

But now the easy-fitting discipline of the Dower House style of hockey became apparent. Mr.
Direck had last observed the tall young Indian gentleman, full of vitality and anxious for
destruction, far away in the distance on the opposing right wing. But now, regardless of the
more formal methods of the game, this young man had resolved, without further delay and at
any cost, to hit the ball hard, and he was travelling like some Asiatic typhoon with an extreme
velocity across the remonstrances of Mr. Britling and the general order of his side. Mr. Direck
became aware of him just before his impact. There was a sort of collision from which Mr. Direck
emerged with a feeling that one side of his face was permanently flattened, but still gallantly
resolved to hit the comparatively lethargic ball. He and the staggered but resolute Indian
clashed sticks again. And Mr. Direck had the best of it. Years of experience couldn't have
produced a better pass to the captain....

"Good pass!"

Apparently from one of the London visitors.

But this was some game!

The ball executed some rapid movements to and fro across the field. Our side was pressing hard.
There was a violent convergence of miscellaneous backs and suchlike irregulars upon the threatened
goal. Mr. Britling's dozen was rapidly losing its disciplined order. One of the sidecar ladies
and the gallant Indian had shifted their activities to the defensive back, and with them was
a spectacled gentleman waving his stick, high above all recognised rules. Mr. Direck's captain
and both Britling boys hurried to join the fray. Mr. Britling, who seemed to Mr. Direck to
be for a captain rather too demagogic, also ran back to rally his forces by loud cries. "Pass
outwardly!" was the burthen of his contribution.

The struggle about the Britling goal ceased to be a game and became something between a fight
and a social gathering. Mr. Britling's goal-keeper could be heard shouting, "I can't see the
ball! Lift your feet!" The crowded conflict lurched towards the goal posts. "My shin!" cried
Mr. Manning. "No, you don't!"

Whack, but again whack!

Whack! "Ah! would you?" Whack.

"Goal!" cried the side-car gentleman.

"Goal!" cried the Britling boys....

Mr. Manning, as goal-keeper, went to recover the ball, but one of the Britling boys politely
anticipated him.

The crowd became inactive, and then began to drift back to loosely conceived positions.

"It's no good swarming into goal like that," Mr. Britling, with a faint asperity in his voice,
explained to his followers. "We've got to keep open and not crowd each other."

Then he went confidentially to the energetic young Indian to make some restrictive explanation
of his activities.

Mr. Direck strolled back towards Cecily. He was very warm and a little blown, but not, he felt,
disgraced. He was winning.

"You'll have to take your coat off," she said.

It was a good idea.

It had occurred to several people and the boundary line was already dotted with hastily discarded
jackets and wraps and so forth. But the lady in the motoring dust coat was buttoning it to
the chin.

"One goal love," said the minor Britling boy.

"We haven't begun yet, Sunny," said Cecily.

"Sonny! That's American," said Mr. Direck.

"No. We call him Sunny Jim," said Cecily. "They're bullying off again."

"Sunny Jim's American too," said Mr. Direck, returning to his place....

The struggle was resumed. And soon it became clear that the first goal was no earnest of the
quality of the struggle. Teddy and Cecily formed a terribly efficient combination. Against
their brilliant rushes, supported in a vehement but effective manner by the Indian to their
right and guided by loud shoutings from Mr. Britling (centre), Mr. Direck and the side-car
lady and Mr. Raeburn struggled in vain. One swift advance was only checked by the dust cloak,
its folds held the ball until help arrived; another was countered by a tremendous swipe of
Mr. Raeburn's that sent the ball within an inch of the youngest Britling's head and right across
the field; the third resulted in a swift pass from Cecily to the elder Britling son away on
her right, and he shot the goal neatly and swiftly through the lattice of Mr. Lawrence Carmine's
defensive movements. And after that very rapidly came another goal for Mr. Britling's side
and then another.

Then Mr. Britling cried out that it was "Half Time," and explained to Mr. Direck that whenever
one side got to three goals they considered it was half time and had five minutes' rest and
changed sides. Everybody was very hot and happy, except the lady in the dust cloak who was
perfectly cool. In everybody's eyes shone the light of battle, and not a shadow disturbed the
brightness of the afternoon for Mr. Direck except a certain unspoken anxiety about Mr. Raeburn's
trousers.

You see Mr. Direck had never seen Mr. Raeburn before, and knew nothing about his trousers.

They appeared to be coming down.

To begin with they had been rather loose over the feet and turned up, and as the game progressed,
fold after fold of concertina-ed flannel gathered about his ankles. Every now and then Mr.
Raeburn would seize the opportunity of some respite from the game to turn up a fresh six inches
or so of this accumulation. Naturally Mr. Direck expected this policy to end unhappily. He
did not know that the flannel trousers of Mr. Raeburn were like a river, that they could come
down forever and still remain inexhaustible....

He had visions of this scene of happy innocence being suddenly blasted by a monstrous disaster....

Apart from this worry Mr. Direck was as happy as any one there!

Perhaps these apprehensions affected his game. At any rate he did nothing that pleased him
in the second half, Cecily danced all over him and round and about him, and in the course of
ten minutes her side had won the two remaining goals with a score of Five-One; and five goals
is "game" by the standards of Matching's Easy.

And then with the very slightest of delays these insatiable people picked up again. Mr. Direck
slipped away and returned in a white silk shirt, tennis trousers and a belt. This time he and
Cecily were on the same side, the Cecily-Teddy combination was broken, and he it seemed was
to take the place of the redoubtable Teddy on the left wing with her.

This time the sides were better chosen and played a long, obstinate, even game. One-One. One-Two.
One-Three. (Half Time.) Two-Three. Three all. Four-Three. Four all....

By this time Mr. Direck was beginning to master the simple strategy of the sport. He was also
beginning to master the fact that Cecily was the quickest, nimblest, most indefatigable player
on the field. He scouted for her and passed to her. He developed tacit understandings with
her. Ideas of protecting her had gone to the four winds of Heaven. Against them Teddy and a
sidecar girl with Raeburn in support made a memorable struggle. Teddy was as quick as a cat.
"Four-Three" looked like winning, but then Teddy and the tall Indian and Mrs. Teddy pulled
square. They almost repeated this feat and won, but Mr. Manning saved the situation with an
immense oblique hit that sent the ball to Mr. Direck. He ran with the ball up to Raeburn and
then dodged and passed to Cecily. There was a lively struggle to the left; the ball was hit
out by Mr. Raeburn and thrown in by a young Britling; lost by the forwards and rescued by the
padded lady. Forward again! This time will do it!

Cecily away to the left had worked round Mr. Raeburn once more. Teddy, realising that things
were serious, was tearing back to attack her.

Mr. Direck supported with silent intentness. "Centre!" cried Mr. Britling. "Cen-tre!"

"Mr. Direck!" came her voice, full of confidence. (Of such moments is the heroic life.) The
ball shot behind the hurtling Teddy. Mr. Direck stopped it with his foot, a trick he had just
learnt from the eldest Britling son. He was neither slow nor hasty. He was in the half-circle,
and the way to the goal was barred only by the dust-cloak lady and Mr. Lawrence Carmine. He
made as if to shoot to Mr. Carmine's left and then smacked the ball, with the swiftness of
a serpent's stroke, to his right.

He'd done it! Mr. Carmine's stick and feet were a yard away.

Then hard on this wild triumph came a flash of horror. One can't see everything. His eye following
the ball's trajectory....

Directly in its line of flight was the perambulator.

The ball missed the legs of the lady with the noble nose by a kind of miracle, hit and glanced
off the wheel of the perambulator, and went spinning into a border of antirrhinums.

"Good!" cried Cecily. "Splendid shot!"

He'd shot a goal. He'd done it well. The perambulator it seemed didn't matter. Though apparently
the impact had awakened the baby. In the margin of his consciousness was the figure of Mr.
Britling remarking: "Aunty. You really mustn't wheel the perambulator--just there."

"I thought," said the aunt, indicating the goal posts by a facial movement, "that those two
sticks would be a sort of protection.... Aah! Did they then?"

Never mind that.

"That's game!" said one of the junior Britlings to Mr. Direck with a note of high appreciation,
and the whole party, relaxing and crumpling like a lowered flag, moved towards the house and tea.

Section 5

"We'll play some more after tea," said Cecily. "It will be cooler then."

"My word, I'm beginning to like it," said Mr. Direck.

"You're going to play very well," she said.

And such is the magic of a game that Mr. Direck was humbly proud and grateful for her praise,
and trotted along by the side of this creature who had revealed herself so swift and resolute
and decisive, full to overflowing of the mere pleasure of just trotting along by her side.
And after tea, which was a large confused affair, enlivened by wonderful and entirely untruthful
reminiscences of the afternoon by Mr. Raeburn, they played again, with fewer inefficients and
greater skill and swiftness, and Mr. Direck did such quick and intelligent things that everybody
declared that he was a hockey player straight from heaven. The dusk, which at last made the
position of the ball too speculative for play, came all too soon for him. He had played in
six games, and he knew he would be as stiff as a Dutch doll in the morning. But he was very,
very happy.

The rest of the Sunday evening was essentially a sequel to the hockey.

Mr. Direck changed again, and after using some embrocation that Mrs. Britling recommended very
strongly, came down in a black jacket and a cheerfully ample black tie. He had a sense of physical
well-being such as he had not experienced since he came aboard the liner at New York. The curious
thing was that it was not quite the same sense of physical well-being that one had in America.
That is bright and clear and a little dry, this was--humid. His mind quivered contentedly,
like sunset midges over a lake--it had no hard bright flashes--and his body wanted to sit about.
His sense of intimacy with Cecily increased each time he looked at her. When she met his eyes
she smiled. He'd caught her style now, he felt; he attempted no more compliments and was frankly
her pupil at hockey and Badminton. After supper Mr. Britling renewed his suggestion of an automobile
excursion on the Monday.

"There's nothing to take you back to London," said Mr. Britling, "and we could just hunt about
the district with the little old car and see everything you want to see...."

Mr. Direck did not hesitate three seconds. He thought of Gladys; he thought of Miss Cecily Corner.

"Well, indeed," he said, "if it isn't burthening you, if I'm not being any sort of inconvenience
here for another night, I'd be really very glad indeed of the opportunity of going around and
seeing all these ancient places...."

Section 6

The newspapers came next morning at nine, and were full of the Sarajevo Murders. Mr. Direck
got the Daily Chronicle and found quite animated headlines for a British paper.

"Who's this Archduke," he asked, "anyhow? And where is this Bosnia? I thought it was a part
of Turkey."

"It's in Austria," said Teddy.

"It's in the middle ages," said Mr. Britling. "What an odd, pertinaceous business it seems
to have been. First one bomb, then another; then finally the man with the pistol. While we
were strolling about the rose garden. It's like something out of 'The Prisoner of Zenda.'"

"Please," said Herr Heinrich.

Mr. Britling assumed an attentive expression.

"Will not this generally affect European politics?"

"I don't know. Perhaps it will."

"It says in the paper that Serbia has sent those bombs to Sarajevo."

"It's like another world," said Mr. Britling, over his paper. "Assassination as a political
method. Can you imagine anything of the sort happening nowadays west of the Adriatic? Imagine
some one assassinating the American Vice-President, and the bombs being at once ascribed to
the arsenal at Toronto!... We take our politics more sadly in the West.... Won't you have another
egg, Direck?"

"Please! Might this not lead to a war?"

"I don't think so. Austria may threaten Serbia, but she doesn't want to provoke a conflict
with Russia. It would be going too near the powder magazine. But it's all an extraordinary
business."

"But if she did?" Herr Heinrich persisted.

"She won't.... Some years ago I used to believe in the inevitable European war," Mr. Britling
explained to Mr. Direck, "but it's been threatened so long that at last I've lost all belief
in it. The Powers wrangle and threaten. They're far too cautious and civilised to let the guns
go off. If there was going to be a war it would have happened two years ago when the Balkan
League fell upon Turkey. Or when Bulgaria attacked Serbia...."

Herr Heinrich reflected, and received these conclusions with an expression of respectful edification.

"I am naturally anxious," he said, "because I am taking tickets for my holidays at an Esperanto
Conference at Boulogne."

Section 7

"There is only one way to master such a thing as driving an automobile," said Mr. Britling
outside his front door, as he took his place in the driver's seat, "and that is to resolve
that from the first you will take no risks. Be slow if you like. Stop and think when you are
in doubt. But do nothing rashly, permit no mistakes."

It seemed to Mr. Direck as he took his seat beside his host that this was admirable doctrine.

They started out of the gates with an extreme deliberation. Indeed twice they stopped dead
in the act of turning into the road, and the engine had to be restarted.

"You will laugh at me," said Mr. Britling; "but I'm resolved to have no blunders this time."

"I don't laugh at you. It's excellent," said Mr. Direck.

"It's the right way," said Mr. Britling. "Care--oh damn! I've stopped the engine again. Ugh!--ah!--so!--Care,
I was saying--and calm."

"Don't think I want to hurry you," said Mr. Direck. "I don't...."

They passed through the tillage at a slow, agreeable pace, tooting loudly at every corner,
and whenever a pedestrian was approached. Mr. Direck was reminded that he had still to broach
the lecture project to Mr. Britling. So much had happened--

The car halted abruptly and the engine stopped.

"I thought that confounded hen was thinking of crossing the road," said Mr. Britling. "Instead
of which she's gone through the hedge. She certainly looked this way.... Perhaps I'm a little
fussy this morning.... I'll warm up to the work presently."

"I'm convinced you can't be too careful," said Mr. Direck. "And this sort of thing enables
one to see the country better...."

Beyond the village Mr. Britling seemed to gather confidence. The pace quickened. But whenever
other traffic or any indication of a side way appeared discretion returned. Mr. Britling stalked
his sign posts, crawling towards them on the belly of the lowest gear; he drove all the morning
like a man who is flushing ambuscades. And yet accident overtook him. For God demands more
from us than mere righteousness.

He cut through the hills to Market Saffron along a lane-road with which he was unfamiliar.
It began to go up hill. He explained to Mr. Direck how admirably his engine would climb hills
on the top gear.

They took a curve and the hill grew steeper, and Mr. Direck opened the throttle.

They rounded another corner, and still more steeply the hill rose before them.

The engine began to make a chinking sound, and the car lost pace. And then Mr. Britling saw
a pleading little white board with the inscription "Concealed Turning." For the moment he thought
a turning might be concealed anywhere. He threw out his clutch and clapped on his brake. Then
he repented of what he had done. But the engine, after three Herculean throbs, ceased to work.
Mr. Britling with a convulsive clutch at his steering wheel set the electric hooter snarling,
while one foot released the clutch again and the other, on the accelerator, sought in vain
for help. Mr. Direck felt they were going back, back, in spite of all this vocalisation. He
clutched at the emergency brake. But he was too late to avoid misfortune. With a feeling like
sitting gently in butter, the car sank down sideways and stopped with two wheels in the ditch.

Mr. Britling said they were in the ditch--said it with quite unnecessary violence....

This time two cart horses and a retinue of five men were necessary to restore Gladys to her
self-respect....

After that they drove on to Market Saffron, and got there in time for lunch, and after lunch
Mr. Direck explored the church and the churchyard and the parish register....

After lunch Mr. Britling became more cheerful about his driving. The road from Market Saffron
to Blandish, whence one turns off to Matching's Easy, is the London and Norwich high road;
it is an old Roman Stane Street and very straightforward and honest in its stretches. You can
see the cross roads half a mile away, and the low hedges give you no chance of a surprise.
Everybody is cheered by such a road, and everybody drives more confidently and quickly, and
Mr. Britling particularly was heartened by it and gradually let out Gladys from the almost
excessive restriction that had hitherto marked the day. "On a road like this nothing can happen,"
said Mr. Britling.

"Unless you broke an axle or burst a tyre," said Mr. Direck.

"My man at Matching's Easy is most careful in his inspection," said Mr. Britling, putting the
accelerator well down and watching the speed indicator creep from forty to forty-five. "He
went over the car not a week ago. And it's not one month old--in use that is."

Yet something did happen.

It was as they swept by the picturesque walls under the big old trees that encircle Brandismead
Park. It was nothing but a slight miscalculation of distances. Ahead of them and well to the
left, rode a postman on a bicycle; towards them, with that curious effect of implacable fury
peculiar to motor cycles, came a motor cyclist. First Mr. Britling thought that he would not
pass between these two, then he decided that he would hurry up and do so, then he reverted
to his former decision, and then it seemed to him that he was going so fast that he must inevitably
run down the postman. His instinct not to do that pulled the car sharply across the path of
the motor cyclist. "Oh, my God!" cried Mr. Britling. "My God!" twisted his wheel over and distributed
his feet among his levers dementedly.

He had an imperfectly formed idea of getting across right in front of the motor cyclist, and
then they were going down the brief grassy slope between the road and the wall, straight at
the wall, and still at a good speed. The motor cyclist smacked against something and vanished
from the problem. The wall seemed to rush up at them and then--collapse. There was a tremendous
concussion. Mr. Direck gripped at his friend the emergency brake, but had only time to touch
it before his head hit against the frame of the glass wind-screen, and a curtain fell upon
everything....

He opened his eyes upon a broken wall, a crumpled motor car, and an undamaged motor cyclist
in the aviator's cap and thin oilskin overalls dear to motor cyclists. Mr. Direck stared and
then, still stunned and puzzled, tried to raise himself. He became aware of acute pain.

"Don't move for a bit," said the motor cyclist. "Your arm and side are rather hurt, I think...."

Section 8

In the course of the next twelve hours Mr. Direck was to make a discovery that was less common
in the days before the war than it has been since. He discovered that even pain and injury
may be vividly interesting and gratifying.

If any one had told him he was going to be stunned for five or six minutes, cut about the brow
and face and have a bone in his wrist put out, and that as a consequence he would find himself
pleased and exhilarated, he would have treated the prophecy with ridicule; but here he was
lying stiffly on his back with his wrist bandaged to his side and smiling into the darkness
even more brightly than he had smiled at the Essex landscape two days before. The fact is pain
hurts or irritates, but in itself it does not make a healthily constituted man miserable. The
expectation of pain, the certainty of injury may make one hopeless enough, the reality rouses
our resistance. Nobody wants a broken bone or a delicate wrist, but very few people are very
much depressed by getting one. People can be much more depressed by smoking a hundred cigarettes
in three days or losing one per cent. of their capital.

And everybody had been most delightful to Mr. Direck.

He had had the monopoly of damage. Mr. Britling, holding on to the steering wheel, had not
even been thrown out. "Unless I'm internally injured," he said, "I'm not hurt at all. My liver
perhaps--bruised a little...."

Gladys had been abandoned in the ditch, and they had been very kindly brought home by a passing
automobile. Cecily had been at the Dower House at the moment of the rueful arrival. She had
seen how an American can carry injuries. She had made sympathy and helpfulness more delightful
by expressed admiration.

"She's a natural born nurse," said Mr. Direck, and then rather in the tone of one who addressed
a public meeting: "But this sort of thing brings out all the good there is in a woman."

He had been quite explicit to them and more particularly to her, when they told him he must
stay at the Dower House until his arm was cured. He had looked the application straight into
her pretty eyes.

"If I'm to stay right here just as a consequence of that little shake up, may be for a couple
of weeks, may be three, and if you're coming to do a bit of a talk to me ever and again, then
I tell you I don't call this a misfortune. It isn't a misfortune. It's right down sheer good
luck...."

And now he lay as straight as a mummy, with his soul filled with radiance of complete mental
peace. After months of distress and confusion, he'd got straight again. He was in the middle
of a real good story, bright and clean. He knew just exactly what he wanted.

"After all," he said, "it's true. There's ideals. She's an ideal. Why, I loved her before ever
I set eyes on Mamie. I loved her before I was put into pants. That old portrait, there it was
pointing my destiny.... It's affinity.... It's natural selection....

"Well, I don't know what she thinks of me yet, but I do know very well what she's got to think
of me. She's got to think all the world of me--if I break every limb of my body making her do it.

"I'd a sort of feeling it was right to go in that old automobile.

"Say what you like, there's a Guidance...."

He smiled confidentially at the darkness as if they shared a secret.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH

MR. BRITLING IN SOLILOQUY

Section 1

Very different from the painful contentment of the bruised and broken Mr. Direck was the state
of mind of his unwounded host. He too was sleepless, but sleepless without exaltation. The
day had been too much for him altogether; his head, to borrow an admirable American expression,
was "busy."

How busy it was, a whole chapter will be needed to describe....

The impression Mr. Britling had made upon Mr. Direck was one of indefatigable happiness. But
there were times when Mr. Britling was called upon to pay for his general cheerful activity
in lump sums of bitter sorrow. There were nights--and especially after seasons of exceptional
excitement and nervous activity--when the reckoning would be presented and Mr. Britling would
welter prostrate and groaning under a stormy sky of unhappiness--active insatiable unhappiness--a
beating with rods.

The sorrows of the sanguine temperament are brief but furious; the world knows little of them.
The world has no need to reckon with them. They cause no suicides and few crimes. They hurry
past, smiting at their victim as they go. None the less they are misery. Mr. Britling in these
moods did not perhaps experience the grey and hopeless desolations of the melancholic nor the
red damnation of the choleric, but he saw a world that bristled with misfortune and error,
with poisonous thorns and traps and swampy places and incurable blunderings. An almost insupportable
remorse for being Mr. Britling would pursue him--justifying itself upon a hundred counts....

And for being such a Britling!...

Why--he revived again that bitter question of a thousand and one unhappy nights--why was he
such a fool? Such a hasty fool? Why couldn't he look before he leapt? Why did he take risks?
Why was he always so ready to act upon the supposition that all was bound to go well? (He might
as well have asked why he had quick brown eyes.)

Why, for instance, hadn't he adhered to the resolution of the early morning? He had begun with
an extremity of caution....

It was a characteristic of these moods of Mr. Britling that they produced a physical restlessness.
He kept on turning over and then turning over again, and sitting up and lying back, like a
martyr on a gridiron....

This was just the latest instance of a life-long trouble. Will there ever be a sort of man
whose thoughts are quick and his acts slow? Then indeed we shall have a formidable being. Mr.
Britling's thoughts were quick and sanguine and his actions even more eager than his thoughts.
Already while he was a young man Mr. Britling had found his acts elbow their way through the
hurry of his ideas and precipitate humiliations. Long before his reasons were marshalled, his
resolutions were formed. He had attempted a thousand remonstrances with himself; he had sought
to remedy the defects in his own character by written inscriptions in his bedroom and memoranda
inside his watch case. "Keep steady!" was one of them. "Keep the End in View." And, "Go steadfastly,
coherently, continuously; only so can you go where you will." In distrusting all impulse, scrutinising
all imagination, he was persuaded lay his one prospect of escape from the surprise of countless
miseries. Otherwise he danced among glass bombs and barbed wire.

There had been a time when he could exhort himself to such fundamental charge and go through
phases of the severest discipline. Always at last to be taken by surprise from some unexpected
quarter. At last he had ceased to hope for any triumph so radical. He had been content to believe
that in recent years age and a gathering habit of wisdom had somewhat slowed his leaping purpose.
That if he hadn't overcome he had at least to a certain extent minimised it. But this last
folly was surely the worst. To charge through this patient world with--how much did the car
weigh? A ton certainly and perhaps more--reckless of every risk. Not only to himself but others.
At this thought, he clutched the steering wheel again. Once more he saw the bent back of the
endangered cyclist, once more he felt rather than saw the seething approach of the motor bicycle,
and then through a long instant he drove helplessly at the wall....

Hell perhaps is only one such incident, indefinitely prolonged....

Anything might have been there in front of him. And indeed now, out of the dreamland to which
he could not escape something had come, something that screamed sharply....

"Good God!" he cried, "if I had hit a child! I might have hit a child!" The hypothesis flashed
into being with the thought, tried to escape and was caught. It was characteristic of Mr. Britling's
nocturnal imagination that he should individualise this child quite sharply as rather plain
and slender, with reddish hair, staring eyes, and its ribs crushed in a vivid and dreadful
manner, pinned against the wall, mixed up with some bricks, only to be extracted, oh! horribly.

But this was not fair! He had hurt no child! He had merely pitched out Mr. Direck and broken
his arm....

It wasn't his merit that the child hadn't been there!

The child might have been there!

Mere luck.

He lay staring in despair--as an involuntary God might stare at many a thing in this amazing
universe--staring at the little victim his imagination had called into being only to destroy....

Section 2

If he had not crushed a child other people had. Such things happened. Vicariously at any rate
he had crushed many children....

Why are children ever crushed?

And suddenly all the pain and destruction and remorse of all the accidents in the world descended
upon Mr. Britling.

No longer did he ask why am I such a fool, but why are we all such fools? He became Man on
the automobile of civilisation, crushing his thousands daily in his headlong and yet aimless
career....

That was a trick of Mr. Britling's mind. It had this tendency to spread outward from himself
to generalised issues. Many minds are like that nowadays. He was not so completely individualised
as people are supposed to be individualised--in our law, in our stories, in our moral judgments.
He had a vicarious factor. He could slip from concentrated reproaches to the liveliest remorse
for himself as The Automobilist in General, or for himself as England, or for himself as Man.
From remorse for smashing his guest and his automobile he could pass by what was for him the
most imperceptible of transitions to remorse for every accident that has ever happened through
the error of an automobilist since automobiles began. All that long succession of blunderers
became Mr. Britling. Or rather Mr. Britling became all that vast succession of blunderers.

These fluctuating lapses from individuation made Mr. Britling a perplexity to many who judged
only by the old personal standards. At times he seemed a monster of cantankerous self-righteousness,
whom nobody could please or satisfy, but indeed when he was most pitiless about the faults
of his race or nation he was really reproaching himself, and when he seemed more egotistical
and introspective and self-centred he was really ransacking himself for a clue to that same
confusion of purposes that waste the hope and strength of humanity. And now through the busy
distresses of the night it would have perplexed a watching angel to have drawn the line and
shown when Mr. Britling, was grieving for his own loss and humiliation and when he was grieving
for these common human weaknesses of which he had so large a share.

And this double refraction of his mind by which a concentrated and individualised Britling
did but present a larger impersonal Britling beneath, carried with it a duplication of his
conscience and sense of responsibility. To his personal conscience he was answerable for his
private honour and his debts and the Dower House he had made and so on, but to his impersonal
conscience he was answerable for the whole world. The world from the latter point of view was
his egg. He had a subconscious delusion that he had laid it. He had a subconscious suspicion
that he had let it cool and that it was addled. He had an urgency to incubate it. The variety
and interest of his talk was largely due to that persuasion, it was a perpetual attempt to
spread his mental feathers over the task before him....

Section 3

After this much of explanation it is possible to go on to the task which originally brought
Mr. Direck to Matching's Easy, the task that Massachusetts society had sent him upon, the task
of organising the mental unveiling of Mr. Britling. Mr. Direck saw Mr. Britling only in the
daylight, and with an increasing distraction of the attention towards Miss Cecily Corner. We
may see him rather more clearly in the darkness, without any distraction except his own.

Now the smashing of Gladys was not only the source of a series of reproaches and remorses directly
arising out of the smash; it had also a wide system of collateral consequences, which were
also banging and blundering their way through the Britling mind. It was extraordinarily inconvenient
in quite another direction that the automobile should be destroyed. It upset certain plans
of Mr. Britling's in a direction growing right out from all the Dower House world in which
Mr. Direck supposed him to be completely set and rooted. There were certain matters from which
Mr. Britling had been averting his mind most strenuously throughout the week-end. Now, there
was no averting his mind any more.

Mr. Britling was entangled in a love affair. It was, to be exact, and disregarding minor affinities,
his eighth love affair. And the new automobile, so soon as he could drive it efficiently, was
to have played quite a solvent and conclusive part in certain entangled complications of this
relationship.

A man of lively imagination and quick impulses naturally has love affairs as he drives himself
through life, just as he naturally has accidents if he drives an automobile.

And the peculiar relations that existed between Mr. Britling and Mrs. Britling tended inevitably
to make these love affairs troublesome, undignified and futile. Especially when they were viewed
from the point of view of insomnia.

Mr. Britling's first marriage had been a passionately happy one. His second was by comparison
a marriage in neutral tint. There is much to be said for that extreme Catholic theory which
would make marriage not merely lifelong but eternal. Certainly Mr. Britling would have been
a finer if not a happier creature if his sentimental existence could have died with his first
wife or continued only in his love for their son. He had married in the glow of youth, he had
had two years of clean and simple loving, helping, quarrelling and the happy ending of quarrels.
Something went out of him into all that, which could not be renewed again. In his first extremity
of grief he knew that perfectly well--and then afterwards he forgot it. While there is life
there is imagination, which makes and forgets and goes on.

He met Edith under circumstances that did not in any way recall his lost Mary. He met her,
as people say, "socially"; Mary, on the other hand, had been a girl at Newnham while he was
a fellow of Pembroke, and there had been something of accident and something of furtiveness
in their lucky discovery of each other. There had been a flush in it; there was dash in it.
But Edith he saw and chose and had to woo. There was no rushing together; there was solicitation
and assent. Edith was a Bachelor of Science of London University and several things like that,
and she looked upon the universe under her broad forehead and broad-waving brown hair with
quiet watchful eyes that had nothing whatever to hide, a thing so incredible to Mr. Britling
that he had loved and married her very largely for the serenity of her mystery. And for a time
after their marriage he sailed over those brown depths plumbing furiously.

Of course he did not make his former passion for Mary at all clear to her. Indeed, while he
was winning Edith it was by no means clear to himself. He was making a new emotional drama,
and consciously and subconsciously he dismissed a hundred reminiscences that sought to invade
the new experience, and which would have been out of key with it. And without any deliberate
intention to that effect he created an atmosphere between himself and Edith in which any discussion
of Mary was reduced to a minimum, and in which Hugh was accepted rather than explained. He
contrived to believe that she understood all sorts of unsayable things; he invented miracles
of quite uncongenial mute mutuality....

It was over the chess-board that they first began to discover their extensive difficulties
of sympathy. Mr. Britling's play was characterised by a superficial brilliance, much generosity
and extreme unsoundness; he always moved directly his opponent had done so--and then reflected
on the situation. His reflection was commonly much wiser than his moves. Mrs. Britling was,
as it were, a natural antagonist to her husband; she was as calm as he was irritable. She was
never in a hurry to move, and never disposed to make a concession. Quietly, steadfastly, by
caution and deliberation, without splendour, without error, she had beaten him at chess until
it led to such dreadful fits of anger that he had to renounce the game altogether. After every
such occasion he would be at great pains to explain that he had merely been angry with himself.
Nevertheless he felt, and would not let himself think (while she concluded from incidental
heated phrases), that that was not the complete truth about the outbreak.

Slowly they got through the concealments of that specious explanation. Temperamentally they
were incompatible.

They were profoundly incompatible. In all things she was defensive. She never came out; never
once had she surprised him halfway upon the road to her. He had to go all the way to her and
knock and ring, and then she answered faithfully. She never surprised him even by unkindness.
If he had a cut finger she would bind it up very skilfully and healingly, but unless he told
her she never discovered he had a cut finger. He was amazed she did not know of it before it
happened. He piped and she did not dance. That became the formula of his grievance. For several
unhappy years she thwarted him and disappointed him, while he filled her with dumb inexplicable
distresses. He had been at first so gay an activity, and then he was shattered; fragments of
him were still as gay and attractive as ever, but between were outbreaks of anger, of hostility,
of something very like malignity. Only very slowly did they realise the truth of their relationship
and admit to themselves that the fine bud of love between them had failed to flower, and only
after long years were they able to delimit boundaries where they had imagined union, and to
become--allies. If it had been reasonably possible for them to part without mutual injury and
recrimination they would have done so, but two children presently held them, and gradually
they had to work out the broad mutual toleration of their later relations. If there was no
love and delight between them there was a real habitual affection and much mutual help. She
was proud of his steady progress to distinction, proud of each intimation of respect he won;
she admired and respected his work; she recognised that he had some magic, of liveliness and
unexpectedness that was precious and enviable. So far as she could help him she did. And even
when he knew that there was nothing behind it, that it was indeed little more than an imaginative
inertness, he could still admire and respect her steady dignity and her consistent honourableness.
Her practical capacity was for him a matter for continual self-congratulation. He marked the
bright order of her household, her flowering borders, the prosperous high-born roses of her
garden with a wondering appreciation. He had never been able to keep anything in order. He
relied more and more upon her. He showed his respect for her by a scrupulous attention to her
dignity, and his confidence by a franker and franker emotional neglect. Because she expressed
so little he succeeded in supposing she felt little, and since nothing had come out of the
brown depths of her eyes he saw fit at last to suppose no plumb-line would ever find anything
there. He pursued his interests; he reached out to this and that; he travelled; she made it
a matter of conscience to let him go unhampered; she felt, she thought--unrecorded; he did,
and he expressed and re-expressed and over-expressed, and started this and that with quick
irrepressible activity, and so there had accumulated about them the various items of the life
to whose more ostensible accidents Mr. Direck was now for an indefinite period joined.

It was in the nature of Mr. Britling to incur things; it was in the nature of Mrs. Britling
to establish them. Mr. Britling had taken the Dower House on impulse, and she had made it a
delightful home. He had discovered the disorderly delights of mixed Sunday hockey one week-end
at Pontings that had promised to be dull, and she had made it an institution.... He had come
to her with his orphan boy and a memory of a passionate first loss that sometimes, and more
particularly at first, he seemed to have forgotten altogether, and at other times was only
too evidently lamenting with every fibre of his being. She had taken the utmost care of the
relics of her duskily pretty predecessor that she found in unexpected abundance in Mr. Britling's
possession, and she had done her duty by her sometimes rather incomprehensible stepson. She
never allowed herself to examine the state of her heart towards this youngster; it is possible
that she did not perceive the necessity for any such examination....

So she went through life, outwardly serene and dignified, one of a great company of rather
fastidious, rather unenterprising women who have turned for their happiness to secondary things,
to those fair inanimate things of household and garden which do not turn again and rend one,
to aestheticisms and delicacies, to order and seemliness. Moreover she found great satisfaction
in the health and welfare, the growth and animation of her own two little boys. And no one
knew, and perhaps even she had contrived to forget, the phases of astonishment and disillusionment,
of doubt and bitterness and secret tears, that spread out through the years in which she had
slowly realised that this strange, fitful, animated man who had come to her, vowing himself
hers, asking for her so urgently and persuasively, was ceasing, had ceased, to love her, that
his heart had escaped her, that she had missed it; she never dreamt that she had hurt it, and
that after its first urgent, tumultuous, incomprehensible search for her it had hidden itself
bitterly away....

Section 4

The mysterious processes of nature that had produced Mr. Britling had implanted in him an obstinate
persuasion that somewhere in the world, from some human being, it was still possible to find
the utmost satisfaction for every need and craving. He could imagine as existing, as waiting
for him, he knew not where, a completeness of understanding, a perfection of response, that
would reach all the gamut of his feelings and sensations from the most poetical to the most
entirely physical, a beauty of relationship so transfiguring that not only would she--it went
without saying that this completion was a woman--be perfectly beautiful in its light but, what
was manifestly more incredible, that he too would be perfectly beautiful and quite at his ease....
In her presence there could be no self-reproaches, no lapses, no limitations, nothing but happiness
and the happiest activities.... To such a persuasion half the imaginative people in the world
succumb as readily and naturally as ducklings take to water. They do not doubt its truth any
more than a thirsty camel doubts that presently it will come to a spring.

This persuasion is as foolish as though a camel hoped that some day it would drink from such
a spring that it would never thirst again. For the most part Mr. Britling ignored its presence
in his mind, and resisted the impulses it started. But at odd times, and more particularly
in the afternoon and while travelling and in between books, Mr. Britling so far succumbed to
this strange expectation of a wonder round the corner that he slipped the anchors of his humour
and self-contempt and joined the great cruising brotherhood of the Pilgrims of Love....

In fact--though he himself had never made a reckoning of it--he had been upon eight separate
cruises. He was now upon the eighth....

Between these various excursions--they took him round and about the world, so to speak, they
cast him away on tropical beaches, they left him dismasted on desolate seas, they involved
the most startling interventions and the most inconvenient consequences--there were interludes
of penetrating philosophy. For some years the suspicion had been growing up in Mr. Britling's
mind that in planting this persuasion in his being, the mysterious processes of Nature had
been, perhaps for some purely biological purpose, pulling, as people say, his leg, that there
were not these perfect responses, that loving a woman is a thing one does thoroughly once for
all--or so--and afterwards recalls regrettably in a series of vain repetitions, and that the
career of the Pilgrim of Love, so soon as you strip off its credulous glamour, is either the
most pitiful or the most vulgar and vile of perversions from the proper conduct of life. But
this suspicion had not as yet grown to prohibitive dimensions with him, it was not sufficient
to resist the seasons of high tide, the sudden promise of the salt-edged breeze, the invitation
of the hovering sea-bird; and he was now concealing beneath the lively surface of activities
with which Mr. Direck was now familiar, a very extensive system of distresses arising out of
the latest, the eighth of these digressional adventures....

Mr. Britling had got into it very much as he had got into the ditch on the morning before his
smash. He hadn't thought the affair out and he hadn't looked carefully enough. And it kept
on developing in just the ways he would rather that it didn't.

The seventh affair had been very disconcerting. He had made a fool of himself with quite a
young girl; he blushed to think how young; it hadn't gone very far, but it had made his nocturnal
reflections so disagreeable that he had--by no means for the first time--definitely and forever
given up these foolish dreams of love. And when Mrs. Harrowdean swam into his circle, she seemed
just exactly what was wanted to keep his imagination out of mischief. She came bearing flattery
to the pitch of adoration. She was the brightest and cleverest of young widows. She wrote quite
admirably criticism in the Scrutator and the Sectarian, and occasionally poetry in the Right
Review--when she felt disposed to do so. She had an intermittent vein of high spirits that
was almost better than humour and made her quickly popular with most of the people she met,
and she was only twenty miles away in her pretty house and her absurd little jolly park.

There was something, she said, in his thought and work that was like walking in mountains.
She came to him because she wanted to clamber about the peaks and glens of his mind.

It was natural to reply that he wasn't by any means the serene mountain elevation she thought
him, except perhaps for a kind of loneliness....

She was a great reader of eighteenth century memoirs, and some she conveyed to him. Her mental
quality was all in the vein of the friendships of Rousseau and Voltaire, and pleasantly and
trippingly she led him along the primrose path of an intellectual liaison. She came first to
Matching's Easy, where she was sweet and bright and vividly interested and a great contrast
to Mrs. Britling, and then he and she met in London, and went off together with a fine sense
of adventure for a day at Richmond, and then he took some work with him to her house and stayed
there....

Then she went away into Scotland for a time and he wanted her again tremendously and clamoured
for her eloquently, and then it was apparent and admitted between them that they were admirably
in love, oh! immensely in love.

The transitions from emotional mountaineering to ardent intimacies were so rapid and impulsive
that each phase obliterated its predecessor, and it was only with a vague perplexity that Mr.
Britling found himself transferred from the rôle of a mountainous objective for pretty little
pilgrims to that of a sedulous lover in pursuit of the happiness of one of the most uncertain,
intricate, and entrancing of feminine personalities. This was not at all his idea of the proper
relations between men and women, but Mrs. Harrowdean had a way of challenging his gallantry.
She made him run about for her; she did not demand but she commanded presents and treats and
surprises; she even developed a certain jealousy in him. His work began to suffer from interruptions.
Yet they had glowing and entertaining moments together that could temper his rebellious thoughts
with the threat of irreparable loss. "One must love, and all things in life are imperfect,"
was how Mr. Britling expressed his reasons for submission. And she had a hold upon him too
in a certain facile pitifulness. She was little; she could be stung sometimes by the slightest
touch and then her blue eyes would be bright with tears.

Those possible tears could weigh at times even more than those possible lost embraces.

And there was Oliver.

Oliver was a person Mr. Britling had never seen. He grew into the scheme of things by insensible
gradations. He was a government official in London; he was, she said, extraordinarily dull,
he was lacking altogether in Mr. Britling's charm and interest, but he was faithful and tender
and true. And considerably younger than Mr. Britling. He asked nothing but to love. He offered
honourable marriage. And when one's heart was swelling unendurably one could weep in safety
on his patient shoulder. This patient shoulder of Oliver's ultimately became Mr. Britling's
most exasperating rival.

She liked to vex him with Oliver. She liked to vex him generally. Indeed in this by no means
abnormal love affair, there was a very strong antagonism. She seemed to resent the attraction
Mr. Britling had for her and the emotions and pleasure she had with him. She seemed under the
sway of an instinctive desire to make him play heavily for her, in time, in emotion, in self-respect.
It was intolerable to her that he could take her easily and happily. That would be taking her
cheaply. She valued his gifts by the bother they cost him, and was determined that the path
of true love should not, if she could help it, run smooth. Mr. Britling on the other hand was
of the school of polite and happy lovers. He thought it outrageous to dispute and contradict,
and he thought that making love was a cheerful, comfortable thing to be done in a state of
high good humour and intense mutual appreciation. This levity offended the lady's pride. She
drew unfavourable contrasts with Oliver. If Oliver lacked charm he certainly did not lack emotion.
He desired sacrifice, it seemed, almost more than satisfactions. Oliver was a person of the
most exemplary miserableness; he would weep copiously and frequently. She could always make
him weep when she wanted to do so. By holding out hopes and then dashing them if by no other
expedient. Why did Mr. Britling never weep? She wept.

Some base streak of competitiveness in Mr. Britling's nature made it seem impossible that he
should relinquish the lady to Oliver. Besides, then, what would he do with his dull days, his
afternoons, his need for a properly demonstrated affection?

So Mr. Britling trod the path of his eighth digression, rather overworked in the matter of
flowers and the selection of small jewellery, stalked by the invisible and indefatigable Oliver,
haunted into an unwilling industry of attentions--attentions on the model of the professional
lover of the French novels--by the memory and expectation of tearful scenes. "Then you don't
love me! And it's all spoilt. I've risked talk and my reputation.... I was a fool ever to dream
of making love beautifully...."

Exactly like running your car into a soft wet ditch when you cannot get out and you cannot
get on. And your work and your interests waiting and waiting for you!...

The car itself was an outcome of the affair. It was Mrs. Harrowdean's idea, she thought chiefly
of pleasant expeditions to friendly inns in remote parts of the country, inns with a flavour
of tacit complicity, but it fell in very pleasantly with Mr. Britling's private resentment
at the extraordinary inconvenience of the railway communications between Matching's Easy and
her station at Pyecrafts, which involved a journey to Liverpool Street and a long wait at a
junction. And now the car was smashed up--just when he had acquired skill enough to take it
over to Pyecrafts without shame, and on Tuesday or Wednesday at latest he would have to depart
in the old way by the London train....

Only the most superficial mind would assert nowadays that man is a reasonable creature. Man
is an unreasonable creature, and it was entirely unreasonable and human for Mr. Britling during
his nocturnal self-reproaches to mix up his secret resentment at his infatuation for Mrs. Harrowdean
with his ill-advised attack upon the wall of Brandismead Park. He ought never to have bought
that car; he ought never to have been so ready to meet Mrs. Harrowdean more than halfway.

What exacerbated his feeling about Mrs. Harrowdean was a new line she had recently taken with
regard to Mrs. Britling. From her first rash assumption that Mr. Britling was indifferent to
his wife, she had come to realise that on the contrary he was in some ways extremely tender
about his wife. This struck her as an outrageous disloyalty. Instead of appreciating a paradox
she resented an infidelity. She smouldered with perplexed resentment for some days, and then
astonished her lover by a series of dissertations of a hostile and devastating nature upon
the lady of the Dower House.

He tried to imagine he hadn't heard all that he had heard, but Mrs. Harrowdean had a nimble
pen and nimbler afterthoughts, and once her mind had got to work upon the topic she developed
her offensive in half-a-dozen brilliant letters.... On the other hand she professed a steadily
increasing passion for Mr. Britling. And to profess passion for Mr. Britling was to put him
under a sense of profound obligation--because indeed he was a modest man. He found himself
in an emotional quandary.

You see, if Mrs. Harrowdean had left Mrs. Britling alone everything would have been quite tolerable.
He considered Mrs. Harrowdean a charming human being, and altogether better than he deserved.
Ever so much better. She was all initiative and response and that sort of thing. And she was
so discreet. She had her own reputation to think about, and one or two of her predecessors--God
rest the ashes of those fires!--had not been so discreet. Yet one could not have this sort
of thing going on behind Edith's back. All sorts of things one might have going on behind Edith's
back, but not this writing and saying of perfectly beastly things about Edith. Nothing could
alter the fact that Edith was his honour....

Section 5

Throughout the week-end Mr. Britling had kept this trouble well battened down. He had written
to Mrs. Harrowdean a brief ambiguous note saying, "I am thinking over all that you have said,"
and after that he had scarcely thought about her at all. Or at least he had always contrived
to be much more vividly thinking about something else. But now in these night silences the
suppressed trouble burst hatches and rose about him.

What a mess he had made of the whole scheme of his emotional life! There had been a time when
he had started out as gaily with his passions and his honour as he had started out with Gladys
to go to Market Saffron. He had as little taste for complications as he had for ditches. And
now his passions and his honour were in a worse case even than poor muddy smashed up Gladys
as the cart-horses towed her off, for she at any rate might be repaired. But he--he was a terribly
patched fabric of explanations now. Not indeed that he had ever stooped to explanations. But
there he was! Far away, like a star seen down the length of a tunnel, was that first sad story
of a love as clean as starlight. It had been all over by eight-and-twenty and he could find
it in his heart to grieve that he had ever given a thought to love again. He should have lived
a decent widower.... Then Edith had come into his life, Edith that honest and unconscious defaulter.
And there again he should have stuck to his disappointment. He had stuck to it--nine days out
of every ten. It's the tenth day, it's the odd seductive moment, it's the instant of confident
pride--and there is your sanguine temperament in the ditch.

He began to recapitulate items in the catalogue of his escapades, and the details of his automobile
misadventures mixed themselves up with the story of his heart steering. For example there was
that tremendous Siddons affair. He had been taking the corner of a girlish friendship and he
had taken it altogether too far. What a frightful mess that had been! When once one is off
the road anything may happen, from a crumpled mud-guard to the car on the top of you. And there
was his forty miles an hour spurt with the great and gifted Delphine Marquise--for whom he
was to have written a play and been a perfect Annunzio. Until Willersley appeared--very like
the motor-cyclist--buzzing in the opposite direction. And then had ensued angers, humiliations....

Had every man this sort of crowded catalogue? Was every forty-five-year-old memory a dark tunnel
receding from the star of youth? It is surely a pity that life cannot end at thirty. It comes
to one clean and in perfect order....

Is experience worth having?

What a clean, straight thing the spirit of youth is. It is like a bright new spear. It is like
a finely tempered sword. The figure of his boy took possession of his mind, his boy who looked
out on the world with his mother's, dark eyes, the slender son of that whole-hearted first
love. He was a being at once fine and simple, an intimate mystery. Must he in his turn get
dented and wrinkled and tarnished?

The boy was in trouble. What was the trouble?

Was it some form of the same trouble that had so tangled and tainted and scarred the private
pride of his father? And how was it possible for Mr. Britling, disfigured by heedless misadventures,
embarrassed by complications and concealments, to help this honest youngster out of his perplexities?
He imagined possible forms of these perplexities. Graceless forms. Ugly forms. Such forms as
only the nocturnal imagination would have dared present....

Oh, why had he been such a Britling? Why was he still such a Britling?

Mr. Britling sat up in his bed and beat at the bedclothes with his fists. He uttered uncompleted
vows, "From this hour forth ... from this hour forth...."

He must do something, he felt. At any rate he had his experiences. He could warn. He could
explain away. Perhaps he might help to extricate, if things had got to that pitch.

Should he write to his son? For a time he revolved a long, tactful letter in his mind. But
that was impossible. Suppose the trouble was something quite different? It would have to be
a letter in the most general terms....

Section 6

It was in the doubly refracting nature of Mr. Britling's mind that while he was deploring his
inefficiency in regard to his son, he was also deploring the ineffectiveness of all his generation
of parents. Quite insensibly his mind passed over to the generalised point of view.

In his talks with Mr. Direck, Mr. Britling could present England as a great and amiable spectacle
of carelessness and relaxation, but was it indeed an amiable spectacle? The point that Mr.
Direck had made about the barn rankled in his thoughts. His barn was a barn no longer, his
farmyard held no cattle; he was just living laxly in the buildings that ancient needs had made,
he was living on the accumulated prosperity of former times, the spendthrift heir of toiling
generations. Not only was he a pampered, undisciplined sort of human being; he was living in
a pampered, undisciplined sort of community. The two things went together.... This confounded
Irish business, one could laugh at it in the daylight, but was it indeed a thing to laugh at?
We were drifting lazily towards a real disaster. We had a government that seemed guided by
the principles of Mr. Micawber, and adopted for its watchword "Wait and see." For months now
this trouble had grown more threatening. Suppose presently that civil war broke out in Ireland!
Suppose presently that these irritated, mishandled suffragettes did some desperate irreconcilable
thing, assassinated for example! The bomb in Westminster Abbey the other day might have killed
a dozen people.... Suppose the smouldering criticism of British rule in India and Egypt were
fanned by administrative indiscretions into a flame....

And then suppose Germany had made trouble....

Usually Mr. Britling kept his mind off Germany. In the daytime he pretended Germany meant nothing
to England. He hated alarmists. He hated disagreeable possibilities. He declared the idea of
a whole vast nation waiting to strike at us incredible. Why should they? You cannot have seventy
million lunatics.... But in the darkness of the night one cannot dismiss things in this way.
Suppose, after all, their army was more than a parade, their navy more than a protest?

We might be caught--It was only in the vast melancholia of such occasions that Mr. Britling
would admit such possibilities, but we might be caught by some sudden declaration of war....
And how should we face it?

He recalled the afternoon's talk at Claverings and such samples of our governmental machinery
as he chanced to number among his personal acquaintance. Suppose suddenly the enemy struck!
With Raeburn and his friends to defend us! Or if the shock tumbled them out of power, then
with these vituperative Tories, these spiteful advocates of weak tyrannies and privileged pretences
in the place of them. There was no leadership in England. In the lucid darkness he knew that
with a terrible certitude. He had a horrible vision of things disastrously muffled; of Lady
Frensham and her Morning Post friends first garrulously and maliciously "patriotic," screaming
her way with incalculable mischiefs through the storm, and finally discovering that the Germans
were the real aristocrats and organising our national capitulation on that understanding. He
knew from talk he had heard that the navy was weak in mines and torpedoes, unprovided with
the great monitors needed for a war with Germany; torn by doctrinaire feuds; nevertheless the
sea power was our only defence. In the whole country we might muster a military miscellany
of perhaps three hundred thousand men. And he had no faith in their equipment, in their direction.
General French, the one man who had his entire confidence, had been forced to resign through
some lawyer's misunderstanding about the Irish difficulty. He did not believe any plans existed
for such a war as Germany might force upon us, any calculation, any foresight of the thing at all.

Why had we no foresight? Why had we this wilful blindness to disagreeable possibilities? Why
did we lie so open to the unexpected crisis? Just what he said of himself he said also of his
country. It was curious to remember that. To realise how closely Dower House could play the
microcosm to the whole Empire....

It became relevant to the trend of his thoughts that his son had through his mother a strong
strain of the dark Irish in his composition.

How we had wasted Ireland! The rich values that lay in Ireland, the gallantry and gifts, the
possible friendliness, all these things were being left to the Ulster politicians and the Tory
women to poison and spoil, just as we left India to the traditions of the chattering army women
and the repressive instincts of our mandarins. We were too lazy, we were too negligent. We
passed our indolent days leaving everything to somebody else. Was this the incurable British,
just as it was the incurable Britling, quality?

Was the whole prosperity of the British, the far-flung empire, the securities, the busy order,
just their good luck? It was a question he had asked a hundred times of his national as of
his personal self. No doubt luck had favoured him. He was prosperous, and he was still only
at the livelier end of middle age. But was there not also a personal factor, a meritorious
factor? Luck had favoured the British with a well-placed island, a hardening climate, accessible
minerals, but then too was there not also a national virtue? Once he had believed in that,
in a certain gallantry, a noble levity, an underlying sound sense. The last ten years of politics
had made him doubt that profoundly. He clung to it still, but without confidence. In the night
that dear persuasion left him altogether.... As for himself he had a certain brightness and
liveliness of mind, but the year of his fellowship had been a soft year, he had got on to The
Times through something very like a misapprehension, and it was the chances of a dinner and
a duchess that had given him the opportunity of the Kahn show. He'd dropped into good things
that suited him. That at any rate was the essence of it. And these lucky chances had been no
incentive to further effort. Because things had gone easily and rapidly with him he had developed
indolence into a philosophy. Here he was just over forty, and explaining to the world, explaining
all through the week-end to this American--until even God could endure it no longer and the
smash stopped him--how excellent was the backwardness of Essex and English go-as-you-please,
and how through good temper it made in some mysterious way for all that was desirable. A fat
English doctrine. Punch has preached it for forty years.

But this wasn't what he had always been. He thought of the strenuous intentions of his youth,
before he had got into this turmoil of amorous experiences, while he was still out there with
the clean star of youth. As Hugh was....

In those days he had had no amiable doctrine of compromise. He had truckled to no "domesticated
God," but talked of the "pitiless truth"; he had tolerated no easy-going pseudo-aristocratic
social system, but dreamt of such a democracy "mewing its mighty youth" as the world had never
seen. He had thought that his brains were to do their share in building up this great national
imago, winged, divine, out of the clumsy, crawling, snobbish, comfort-loving caterpillar of
Victorian England. With such dreams his life had started, and the light of them, perhaps, had
helped him to his rapid success. And then his wife had died, and he had married again and become
somehow more interested in his income, and then the rather expensive first of the eight experiences
had drained off so much of his imaginative energy, and the second had drained off so much,
and there had been quarrels and feuds, and the way had been lost, and the days had passed.
He hadn't failed. Indeed he counted as a success among his generation. He alone, in the night
watches, could gauge the quality of that success. He was widely known, reputably known; he
prospered. Much had come, oh! by a mysterious luck, but everything was doomed by his invincible
defects. Beneath that hollow, enviable show there ached waste. Waste, waste, waste--his heart,
his imagination, his wife, his son, his country--his automobile....

Then there flashed into his mind a last straw of disagreeable realisation.

He hadn't as yet insured his automobile! He had meant to do so. The papers were on his writing-desk.

Section 7

On these black nights, when the personal Mr. Britling would lie awake thinking how unsatisfactorily
Mr. Britling was going on, and when the impersonal Mr. Britling would be thinking how unsatisfactorily
his universe was going on, the whole mental process had a likeness to some complex piece of
orchestral music wherein the organ deplored the melancholy destinies of the race while the
piccolo lamented the secret trouble of Mrs. Harrowdean; the big drum thundered at the Irish
politicians, and all the violins bewailed the intellectual laxity of the university system.
Meanwhile the trumpets prophesied wars and disasters, the cymbals ever and again inserted a
clashing jar about the fatal delay in the automobile insurance, while the triangle broke into
a plangent solo on the topic of a certain rotten gate-post he always forgot in the daytime,
and how in consequence the cows from the glebe farm got into the garden and ate Mrs. Britling's
carnations.

Time after time he had promised to see to that gate-post....

The organ motif battled its way to complete predominance. The lesser themes were drowned or
absorbed. Mr. Britling returned from the rôle of an incompetent automobilist to the rôle of
a soul naked in space and time wrestling with giant questions. These cosmic solicitudes, it
may be, are the last penalty of irreligion. Was Huxley right, and was all humanity, even as
Mr. Britling, a careless, fitful thing, playing a tragically hopeless game, thinking too slightly,
moving too quickly, against a relentless antagonist?

Or is the whole thing just witless, accidentally cruel perhaps, but not malignant? Or is it
wise, and merely refusing to pamper us? Is there somewhere in the immensities some responsive
kindliness, some faint hope of toleration and assistance, something sensibly on our side against
death and mechanical cruelty? If so, it certainly refuses to pamper us.... But if the whole
thing is cruel, perhaps also it is witless and will-less? One cannot imagine the ruler of everything
a devil--that would be silly. So if at the worst it is inanimate then anyhow we have our poor
wills and our poor wits to pit against it. And manifestly then, the good of life, the significance
of any life that is not mere receptivity, lies in the disciplined and clarified will and the
sharpened and tempered mind. And what for the last twenty years--for all his lectures and writings--had
he been doing to marshal the will and harden the mind which were his weapons against the Dark?
He was ready enough to blame others--dons, politicians, public apathy, but what was he himself
doing?

What was he doing now?

Lying in bed!

His son was drifting to ruin, his country was going to the devil, the house was a hospital
of people wounded by his carelessness, the country roads choked with his smashed (and uninsured)
automobiles, the cows were probably lined up along the borders and munching Edith's carnations
at this very moment, his pocketbook and bureau were stuffed with venomous insults about her--and
he was just lying in bed!

Suddenly Mr. Britling threw back his bedclothes and felt for the matches on his bedside table.

Indeed this was by no means the first time that his brain had become a whirring torment in
his skull. Previous experiences had led to the most careful provision for exactly such states.
Over the end of the bed hung a light, warm pyjama suit of llama-wool, and at the feet of it
were two tall boots of the same material that buckled to the middle of his calf. So protected,
Mr. Britling proceeded to make himself tea. A Primus stove stood ready inside the fender of
his fireplace, and on it was a brightly polished brass kettle filled with water; a little table
carried a tea-caddy, a tea-pot, a lemon and a glass. Mr. Britling lit the stove and then strolled
to his desk. He was going to write certain "Plain Words about Ireland." He lit his study lamp
and meditated beside it until a sound of water boiling called him to his tea-making.

He returned to his desk stirring the lemon in his glass of tea. He would write the plain common
sense of this Irish situation. He would put things so plainly that this squabbling folly would
have to cease. It should be done austerely, with a sort of ironical directness. There should
be no abuse, no bitterness, only a deep passion of sanity.

What is the good of grieving over a smashed automobile?

He sipped his tea and made a few notes on his writing pad. His face in the light of his shaded
reading lamp had lost its distraught expression, his hand fingered his familiar fountain pen....

Section 8

The next morning Mr. Britling came into Mr. Direck's room. He was pink from his morning bath,
he was wearing a cheerful green-and-blue silk dressing gown, he had shaved already, he showed
no trace of his nocturnal vigil. In the bathroom he had whistled like a bird. "Had a good night?"
he said. "That's famous. So did I. And the wrist and arm didn't even ache enough to keep you
awake?"

"I thought I heard you talking and walking about," said Mr. Direck.

"I got up for a little bit and worked. I often do that. I hope I didn't disturb you. Just for
an hour or so. It's so delightfully quiet in the night...."

He went to the window and blinked at the garden outside. His two younger sons appeared on their
bicycles returning from some early expedition. He waved a hand of greeting. It was one of those
summer mornings when attenuated mist seems to fill the very air with sunshine dust.

"This is the sunniest morning bedroom in the house," he said. "It's south-east."

The sunlight slashed into the masses of the blue cedar outside with a score of golden spears.

"The Dayspring from on High," he said.... "I thought of rather a useful pamphlet in the night.

"I've been thinking about your luggage at that hotel," he went on, turning to his guest again.
"You'll have to write and get it packed up and sent down here--

"No," he said, "we won't let you go until you can hit out with that arm and fell a man. Listen!"

Mr. Direck could not distinguish any definite sound.

"The smell of frying rashers, I mean," said Mr. Britling. "It's the clarion of the morn in
every proper English home....

"You'd like a rasher, coffee?

"It's good to work in the night, and it's good to wake in the morning," said Mr. Britling,
rubbing his hands together. "I suppose I wrote nearly two thousand words. So quiet one is,
so concentrated. And as soon as I have had my breakfast I shall go on with it again."

CHAPTER THE FIFTH

THE COMING OF THE DAY

Section 1

It was quite characteristic of the state of mind of England in the summer of 1914 that Mr.
Britling should be mightily concerned about the conflict in Ireland, and almost deliberately
negligent of the possibility of a war with Germany.

The armament of Germany, the hostility of Germany, the consistent assertion of Germany, the
world-wide clash of British and German interests, had been facts in the consciousness of Englishmen
for more than a quarter of a century. A whole generation had been born and brought up in the
threat of this German war. A threat that goes on for too long ceases to have the effect of
a threat, and this overhanging possibility had become a fixed and scarcely disturbing feature
of the British situation. It kept the navy sedulous and Colonel Rendezvous uneasy; it stimulated
a small and not very influential section of the press to a series of reminders that bored Mr.
Britling acutely, it was the excuse for an agitation that made national service ridiculous,
and quite subconsciously it affected his attitude to a hundred things. For example, it was
a factor in his very keen indignation at the Tory levity in Ireland, in his disgust with many
things that irritated or estranged Indian feeling. It bored him; there it was, a danger, and
there was no denying it, and yet he believed firmly that it was a mine that would never be
fired, an avalanche that would never fall. It was a nuisance, a stupidity, that kept Europe
drilling and wasted enormous sums on unavoidable preparations; it hung up everything like a
noisy argument in a drawing-room, but that human weakness and folly would ever let the mine
actually explode he did not believe. He had been in France in 1911, he had seen how close things
had come then to a conflict, and the fact that they had not come to a conflict had enormously
strengthened his natural disposition to believe that at bottom Germany was sane and her militarism
a bluff.

But the Irish difficulty was a different thing. There, he felt, was need for the liveliest
exertions. A few obstinate people in influential positions were manifestly pushing things to
an outrageous point....

He wrote through the morning--and as the morning progressed the judicial calm of his opening
intentions warmed to a certain regrettable vigour of phrasing about our politicians, about
our political ladies, and our hand-to-mouth press....

He came down to lunch in a frayed, exhausted condition, and was much afflicted by a series
of questions from Herr Heinrich. For it was an incurable characteristic of Herr Heinrich that
he asked questions; the greater part of his conversation took the form of question and answer,
and his thirst for information was as marked as his belief that German should not simply be
spoken but spoken "out loud." He invariably prefaced his inquiries with the word "Please,"
and he insisted upon ascribing an omniscience to his employer that it was extremely irksome
to justify after a strenuous morning of enthusiastic literary effort. He now took the opportunity
of a lull in the solicitudes and congratulations that had followed Mr. Direck's appearance--and
Mr. Direck was so little shattered by his misadventure that with the assistance of the kindly
Teddy he had got up and dressed and come down to lunch--to put the matter that had been occupying
his mind all the morning, even to the detriment of the lessons of the Masters Britling.

"Please!" he said, going a deeper shade of pink and partly turning to Mr. Britling.

A look of resignation came into Mr. Britling's eyes. "Yes?" he said.

"I do not think it will be wise to take my ticket for the Esperanto Conference at Boulogne.
Because I think it is probable to be war between Austria and Servia, and that Russia may make
war on Austria."

"That may happen. But I think it improbable."

"If Russia makes war on Austria, Germany will make war on Russia, will she not?"

"Not if she is wise," said Mr. Britling, "because that would bring in France."

"That is why I ask. If Germany goes to war with France I should have to go to Germany to do
my service. It will be a great inconvenience to me."

"I don't imagine Germany will do anything so frantic as to attack Russia. That would not only
bring in France but ourselves."

"England?"

"Of course. We can't afford to see France go under. The thing is as plain as daylight. So plain
that it cannot possibly happen.... Cannot.... Unless Germany wants a universal war."

"Thank you," said Herr Heinrich, looking obedient rather than reassured.

"I suppose now," said Mr. Direck after a pause, "that there isn't any strong party in Germany
that wants a war. That young Crown Prince, for example."

"They keep him in order," said Mr. Britling a little irritably. "They keep him in order....

"I used to be an alarmist about Germany," said Mr. Britling, "but I have come to feel more
and more confidence in the sound common sense of the mass of the German population, and in
the Emperor too if it comes to that. He is--if Herr Heinrich will permit me to agree with his
own German comic papers--sometimes a little theatrical, sometimes a little egotistical, but
in his operatic, boldly coloured way he means peace. I am convinced he means peace...."

Section 2

After lunch Mr. Britling had a brilliant idea for the ease and comfort of Mr. Direck.

It seemed as though Mr. Direck would be unable to write any letters until his wrist had mended.
Teddy tried him with a typewriter, but Mr. Direck was very awkward with his left hand, and
then Mr. Britling suddenly remembered a little peculiarity he had which it was possible that
Mr. Direck might share unconsciously, and that was his gift of looking-glass writing with his
left hand. Mr. Britling had found out quite by chance in his schoolboy days that while his
right hand had been laboriously learning to write, his left hand, all unsuspected, had been
picking up the same lesson, and that by taking a pencil in his left hand and writing from right
to left, without watching what he was writing, and then examining the scrawl in a mirror, he
could reproduce his own handwriting in exact reverse. About three people out of five have this
often quite unsuspected ability. He demonstrated his gift, and then Miss Cecily Corner, who
had dropped in in a casual sort of way to ask about Mr. Direck, tried it, and then Mr. Direck
tried it. And they could all do it. And then Teddy brought a sheet of copying carbon, and so
Mr. Direck, by using the carbon reversed under his paper, was restored to the world of correspondence
again.

They sat round a little table under the cedar trees amusing themselves with these experiments,
and after that Cecily and Mr. Britling and the two small boys entertained themselves by drawing
pigs with their eyes shut, and then Mr. Britling and Teddy played hard at Badminton until it
was time for tea. And Cecily sat by Mr. Direck and took an interest in his accident, and he
told her about summer holidays in the Adirondacks and how he loved to travel. She said she
would love to travel. He said that so soon as he was better he would go on to Paris and then
into Germany. He was extraordinarily curious about this Germany and its tremendous militarism.
He'd far rather see it than Italy, which was, he thought, just all art and ancient history.
His turn was for modern problems. Though of course he didn't intend to leave out Italy while
he was at it. And then their talk was scattered, and there was great excitement because Herr
Heinrich had lost his squirrel.

He appeared coming out of the house into the sunshine, and so distraught that he had forgotten
the protection of his hat. He was very pink and deeply moved.

"But what shall I do without him?" he cried. "He has gone!"

The squirrel, Mr. Direck gathered, had been bought by Mrs. Britling for the boys some month
or so ago; it had been christened "Bill" and adored and then neglected, until Herr Heinrich
took it over. It had filled a place in his ample heart that the none too demonstrative affection
of the Britling household had left empty. He abandoned his pursuit of philology almost entirely
for the cherishing and adoration of this busy, nimble little creature. He carried it off to
his own room, where it ran loose and took the greatest liberties with him and his apartment.
It was an extraordinarily bold and savage little beast even for a squirrel, but Herr Heinrich
had set his heart and his very large and patient will upon the establishment of sentimental
relations. He believed that ultimately Bill would let himself be stroked, that he would make
Bill love him and understand him, and that his would be the only hand that Bill would ever
suffer to touch him. In the meanwhile even the untamed Bill was wonderful to watch. One could
watch him forever. His front paws were like hands, like a musician's hands, very long and narrow.
"He would be a musician if he could only make his fingers go apart, because when I play my
violin he listens. He is attentive."

The entire household became interested in Herr Heinrich's attacks upon Bill's affection. They
watched his fingers with particular interest because it was upon those that Bill vented his
failures to respond to the stroking advances.

"To-day I have stroked him once and he has bitten me three times," Herr Heinrich reported.
"Soon I will stroke him three times and he shall not bite me at all.... Also yesterday he climbed
up me and sat on my shoulder, and suddenly bit my ear. It was not hard he bit, but sudden.

"He does not mean to bite," said Herr Heinrich. "Because when he has bit me he is sorry. He
is ashamed.

"You can see he is ashamed."

Assisted by the two small boys, Herr Heinrich presently got a huge bough of oak and brought
it into his room, converting the entire apartment into the likeness of an aviary. "For this,"
said Herr Heinrich, looking grave and diplomatic through his glasses, "Billy will be very grateful.
And it will give him confidence with me. It will make him feel we are in the forest together."

Mrs. Britling came to console her husband in the matter.

"It is not right that the bedroom should be filled with trees. All sorts of dust and litter
came in with it."

"If it amuses him," said Mr. Britling.

"But it makes work for the servants."

"Do they complain?"

"No."

"Things will adjust themselves. And it is amusing that he should do such a thing...."

And now Billy had disappeared, and Herr Heinrich was on the verge of tears. It was so ungrateful
of Billy. Without a word.

"They leave my window open," he complained to Mr. Direck. "Often I have askit them not to.
And of course he did not understand. He has out climbit by the ivy. Anything may have happened
to him. Anything. He is not used to going out alone. He is too young.

"Perhaps if I call--"

And suddenly he had gone off round the house crying: "Beelee! Beelee! Here is an almond for
you! An almond, Beelee!"

"Makes me want to get up and help," said Mr. Direck. "It's a tragedy."

Everybody else was helping. Even the gardener and his boy knocked off work and explored the
upper recesses of various possible trees.

"He is too young," said Herr Heinrich, drifting back.... And then presently: "If he heard my
voice I am sure he would show himself. But he does not show himself."

It was clear he feared the worst....

At supper Billy was the sole topic of conversation, and condolence was in the air. The impression
that on the whole he had displayed rather a brutal character was combated by Herr Heinrich,
who held that a certain brusqueness was Billy's only fault, and told anecdotes, almost sacred
anecdotes, of the little creature's tenderer, nobler side. "When I feed him always he says,
'Thank you,'" said Herr Heinrich. "He never fails." He betrayed darker thoughts. "When I went
round by the barn there was a cat that sat and looked at me out of a laurel bush," he said.
"I do not like cats."

Mr. Lawrence Carmine, who had dropped in, was suddenly reminded of that lugubrious old ballad,
"The Mistletoe Bough," and recited large worn fragments of it impressively. It tells of how
a beautiful girl hid away in a chest during a Christmas game of hide-and-seek, and how she
was found, a dried vestige, years afterwards. It took a very powerful hold upon Herr Heinrich's
imagination. "Let us now," he said, "make an examination of every box and cupboard and drawer.
Marking each as we go...."

When Mr. Britling went to bed that night, after a long gossip with Carmine about the Bramo
Samaj and modern developments of Indian thought generally, the squirrel was still undiscovered.

The worthy modern thinker undressed slowly, blew out his candle and got into bed. Still meditating
deeply upon the God of the Tagores, he thrust his right hand under his pillow according to
his usual practice, and encountered something soft and warm and active. He shot out of bed
convulsively, lit his candle, and lifted his pillow discreetly.

He discovered the missing Billy looking crumpled and annoyed.

For some moments there was a lively struggle before Billy was gripped. He chattered furiously
and bit Mr. Britling twice. Then Mr. Britling was out in the passage with the wriggling lump
of warm fur in his hand, and paddling along in the darkness to the door of Herr Heinrich. He
opened it softly.

A startled white figure sat up in bed sharply.

"Billy," said Mr. Britling by way of explanation, dropped his capture on the carpet, and shut
the door on the touching reunion.

Section 3

A day was to come when Mr. Britling was to go over the history of that sunny July with incredulous
minuteness, trying to trace the real succession of events that led from the startling crime
at Sarajevo to Europe's last swift rush into war. In a sense it was untraceable; in a sense
it was so obvious that he was amazed the whole world had not watched the coming of disaster.
The plain fact of the case was that there was no direct connection; the Sarajevo murders were
dropped for two whole weeks out of the general consciousness, they went out of the papers,
they ceased to be discussed; then they were picked up again and used as an excuse for war.
Germany, armed so as to be a threat to all the world, weary at last of her mighty vigil, watching
the course of events, decided that her moment had come, and snatched the dead archduke out
of his grave again to serve her tremendous ambition.

It may well have seemed to the belligerent German patriot that all her possible foes were confused,
divided within themselves, at an extremity of distraction and impotence. The British Isles
seemed slipping steadily into civil war. Threat was met by counter-threat, violent fool competed
with violent fool for the admiration of the world, the National Volunteers armed against the
Ulster men; everything moved on with a kind of mechanical precision from parade and meeting
towards the fatal gun-running of Howth and the first bloodshed in Dublin streets. That wretched
affray, far more than any other single thing, must have stiffened Germany in the course she
had chosen. There can be no doubt of it; the mischief makers of Ireland set the final confirmation
upon the European war. In England itself there was a summer fever of strikes; Liverpool was
choked by a dockers' strike, the East Anglian agricultural labourers were in revolt, and the
building trade throughout the country was on the verge of a lockout. Russia seemed to be in
the crisis of a social revolution. From Baku to St. Petersburg there were insurrectionary movements
in the towns, and on the 23rd--the very day of the Austrian ultimatum--Cossacks were storming
barbed wire entanglements in the streets of the capital. The London Stock Exchange was in a
state of panic disorganisation because of a vast mysterious selling of securities from abroad.
And France, France it seemed was lost to all other consideration in the enthralling confrontations
and denunciations of the Caillaux murder trial, the trial of the wife of her ex-prime Minister
for the murder of a blackmailing journalist. It was a case full of the vulgarest sexual violence.
Before so piquant a spectacle France it seemed could have no time nor attention for the revelation
of M. Humbert, the Reporter of the Army Committee, proclaiming that the artillery was short
of ammunition, that her infantry had boots "thirty years old" and not enough of those....

Such were the appearances of things. Can it be wondered if it seemed to the German mind that
the moment for the triumphant assertion of the German predominance in the world had come? A
day or so before the Dublin shooting, the murder of Sarajevo had been dragged again into the
foreground of the world's affairs by an ultimatum from Austria to Serbia of the extremest violence.
From the hour when the ultimatum was discharged the way to Armageddon lay wide and unavoidable
before the feet of Europe. After the Dublin conflict there was no turning back. For a week
Europe was occupied by proceedings that were little more than the recital of a formula. Austria
could not withdraw her unqualified threats without admitting error and defeat, Russia could
not desert Serbia without disgrace, Germany stood behind Austria, France was bound to Russia
by a long confederacy of mutual support, and it was impossible for England to witness the destruction
of France or the further strengthening of a loud and threatening rival. It may be that Germany
counted on Russia giving way to her, it may be she counted on the indecisions and feeble perplexities
of England, both these possibilities were in the reckoning, but chiefly she counted on war.
She counted on war, and since no nation in all the world had ever been so fully prepared in
every way for war as she was, she also counted on victory.

One writes "Germany." That is how one writes of nations, as though they had single brains and
single purposes. But indeed while Mr. Britling lay awake and thought of his son and Lady Frensham
and his smashed automobile and Mrs. Harrowdean's trick of abusive letter-writing and of God
and evil and a thousand perplexities, a multitude of other brains must also have been busy,
lying also in beds or sitting in studies or watching in guard-rooms or chatting belatedly in
cafés or smoking-rooms or pacing the bridges of battleships or walking along in city or country,
upon this huge possibility the crime of Sarajevo had just opened, and of the state of the world
in relation to such possibilities. Few women, one guesses, heeded what was happening, and of
the men, the men whose decision to launch that implacable threat turned the destinies of the
world to war, there is no reason to believe that a single one of them had anything approaching
the imaginative power needed to understand fully what it was they were doing. We have looked
for an hour or so into the seething pot of Mr. Britling's brain and marked its multiple strands,
its inconsistencies, its irrational transitions. It was but a specimen. Nearly every brain
of the select few that counted in this cardinal determination of the world's destinies, had
its streak of personal motive, its absurd and petty impulses and deflections. One man decided
to say this because if he said that he would contradict something he had said and printed four
or five days ago; another took a certain line because so he saw his best opportunity of putting
a rival into a perplexity. It would be strange if one could reach out now and recover the states
of mind of two such beings as the German Kaiser and his eldest son as Europe stumbled towards
her fate through the long days and warm, close nights of that July. Here was the occasion for
which so much of their lives had been but the large pretentious preparation, coming right into
their hands to use or forgo, here was the opportunity that would put them into the very forefront
of history forever; this journalist emperor with the paralysed arm, this common-fibred, sly,
lascivious son. It is impossible that they did not dream of glory over all the world, of triumphant
processions, of a world-throne that would outshine Caesar's, of a godlike elevation, of acting
Divus Caesar while yet alive. And being what they were they must have imagined spectators,
and the young man, who was after all a young man of particularly poor quality, imagined no
doubt certain women onlookers, certain humiliated and astonished friends, and thought of the
clothes he would wear and the gestures he would make. The nickname his English cousins had
given this heir to all the glories was the "White Rabbit." He was the backbone of the war party
at court. And presently he stole bric-à-brac. That will help posterity to the proper values
of things in 1914. And the Teutonic generals and admirals and strategists with their patient
and perfect plans, who were so confident of victory, each within a busy skull must have enacted
anticipatory dreams of his personal success and marshalled his willing and unwilling admirers.
Readers of histories and memoirs as most of this class of men are, they must have composed
little eulogistic descriptions of the part themselves were to play in the opening drama, imagined
pleasing vindications and interesting documents. Some of them perhaps saw difficulties, but
few foresaw failure. For all this set of brains the thing came as a choice to take or reject;
they could make war or prevent it. And they chose war.

It is doubtful if any one outside the directing intelligence of Germany and Austria saw anything
so plain. The initiative was with Germany. The Russian brains and the French brains and the
British brains, the few that were really coming round to look at this problem squarely, had
a far less simple set of problems and profounder uncertainties. To Mr. Britling's mind the
Round Table Conference at Buckingham Palace was typical of the disunion and indecision that
lasted up to the very outbreak of hostilities. The solemn violence of Sir Edward Carson was
intensely antipathetic to Mr. Britling, and in his retrospective inquiries he pictured to himself
that dark figure with its dropping under-lip, seated, heavy and obstinate, at that discussion,
still implacable though the King had but just departed after a little speech that was packed
with veiled intimations of imminent danger...

Mr. Britling had no mercy in his mind for the treason of obstinate egotism and for persistence
in a mistaken course. His own temperamental weaknesses lay in such different directions. He
was always ready to leave one trail for another; he was always open to conviction, trusting
to the essentials of his character for an ultimate consistency. He hated Carson in those days
as a Scotch terrier might hate a bloodhound, as something at once more effective and impressive,
and exasperatingly, infinitely less intelligent.

Section 4

Thus--a vivid fact as yet only in a few hundred skulls or so--the vast catastrophe of the Great
War gathered behind the idle, dispersed and confused spectacle of an indifferent world, very
much as the storms and rains of late September gathered behind the glow and lassitudes of August,
and with scarcely more of set human intention. For the greater part of mankind the European
international situation was at most something in the papers, no more important than the political
disturbances in South Africa, where the Herzogites were curiously uneasy, or the possible trouble
between Turkey and Greece. The things that really interested people in England during the last
months of peace were boxing and the summer sales. A brilliant young Frenchman, Carpentier,
who had knocked out Bombardier Wells, came over again to defeat Gunboat Smith, and did so to
the infinite delight of France and the whole Latin world, amidst the generous applause of Anglo-Saxondom.
And there was also a British triumph over the Americans at polo, and a lively and cultured
newspaper discussion about a proper motto for the arms of the London County Council. The trial
of Madame Caillaux filled the papers with animated reports and vivid pictures; Gregori Rasputin
was stabbed and became the subject of much lively gossip about the Russian Court; and Ulivi,
the Italian impostor who claimed he could explode mines by means of an "ultra-red" ray, was
exposed and fled with a lady, very amusingly. For a few days all the work at Woolwich Arsenal
was held up because a certain Mr. Entwhistle, having refused to erect a machine on a concrete
bed laid down by non-unionists, was rather uncivilly dismissed, and the Irish trouble pounded
along its tiresome mischievous way. People gave a divided attention to these various topics,
and went about their individual businesses.

And at Dower House they went about their businesses. Mr. Direck's arm healed rapidly; Cecily
Corner and he talked of their objects in life and Utopias and the books of Mr. Britling, and
he got down from a London bookseller Baedeker's guides for Holland and Belgium, South Germany
and Italy; Herr Heinrich after some doubt sent in his application form and his preliminary
deposit for the Esperanto Conference at Boulogne, and Billy consented to be stroked three times
but continued to bite with great vigour and promptitude. And the trouble about Hugh, Mr. Britling's
eldest son, resolved itself into nothing of any vital importance, and settled itself very easily.

Section 5

After Hugh had cleared things up and gone back to London Mr. Britling was inclined to think
that such a thing as apprehension was a sin against the general fairness and integrity of life.

Of all things in the world Hugh was the one that could most easily rouse Mr. Britling's unhappy
aptitude for distressing imaginations. Hugh was nearer by far to his heart and nerves than
any other creature. In the last few years Mr. Britling, by the light of a variety of emotional
excursions in other directions, had been discovering this. Whatever Mr. Britling discovered
he talked about; he had evolved from his realisation of this tenderness, which was without
an effort so much tenderer than all the subtle and tremendous feelings he had attempted in
his--excursions, the theory that he had expounded to Mr. Direck that it is only through our
children that we are able to achieve disinterested love, real love. But that left unexplained
that far more intimate emotional hold of Hugh than of his very jolly little step-brothers.
That was a fact into which Mr. Britling rather sedulously wouldn't look....

Mr. Britling was probably much franker and more open-eyed with himself and the universe than
a great number of intelligent people, and yet there were quite a number of aspects of his relations
with his wife, with people about him, with his country and God and the nature of things, upon
which he turned his back with an attentive persistence. But a back too resolutely turned may
be as indicative as a pointing finger, and in this retrogressive way, and tacitly even so far
as his formal thoughts, his unspoken comments, went, Mr. Britling knew that he loved his son
because he had lavished the most hope and the most imagination upon him, because he was the
one living continuation of that dear life with Mary, so lovingly stormy at the time, so fine
now in memory, that had really possessed the whole heart of Mr. Britling. The boy had been
the joy and marvel of the young parents; it was incredible to them that there had ever been
a creature so delicate and sweet, and they brought considerable imagination and humour to the
detailed study of his minute personality and to the forecasting of his future. Mr. Britling's
mind blossomed with wonderful schemes for his education. All that mental growth no doubt contributed
greatly to Mr. Britling's peculiar affection, and with it there interwove still tenderer and
subtler elements, for the boy had a score of Mary's traits. But there were other things still
more conspicuously ignored. One silent factor in the slow widening of the breach between Edith
and Mr. Britling was her cool estimate of her stepson. She was steadfastly kind to this shock-headed,
untidy little dreamer, he was extremely well cared for in her hands, she liked him and she
was amused by him--it is difficult to imagine what more Mr. Britling could have expected--but
it was as plain as daylight that she felt that this was not the child she would have cared
to have borne. It was quite preposterous and perfectly natural that this should seem to Mr.
Britling to be unfair to Hugh.

Edith's home was more prosperous than Mary's; she brought her own money to it; the bringing
up of her children was a far more efficient business than Mary's instinctive proceedings. Hugh
had very nearly died in his first year of life; some summer infection had snatched at him;
that had tied him to his father's heart by a knot of fear; but no infection had ever come near
Edith's own nursery. And it was Hugh that Mr. Britling had seen, small and green-faced and
pitiful under an anaesthetic for some necessary small operation to his adenoids. His younger
children had never stabbed to Mr. Britling's heart with any such pitifulness; they were not
so thin-skinned as their elder brother, not so assailable by the little animosities of dust
and germ. And out of such things as this evolved a shapeless cloud of championship for Hugh.
Jealousies and suspicions are latent in every human relationship. We go about the affairs of
life pretending magnificently that they are not so, pretending to the generosities we desire.
And in all step-relationships jealousy and suspicion are not merely latent, they stir.

It was Mr. Britling's case for Hugh that he was something exceptional, something exceptionally
good, and that the peculiar need there was to take care of him was due to a delicacy of nerve
and fibre that was ultimately a virtue. The boy was quick, quick to hear, quick to move, very
accurate in his swift way, he talked unusually soon, he began to sketch at an early age with
an incurable roughness and a remarkable expressiveness. That he was sometimes ungainly, often
untidy, that he would become so mentally preoccupied as to be uncivil to people about him,
that he caught any malaise that was going, was all a part of that. The sense of Mrs. Britling's
unexpressed criticisms, the implied contrasts with the very jolly, very uninspired younger
family, kept up a nervous desire in Mr. Britling for evidences and manifestations of Hugh's
quality. Not always with happy results; it caused much mutual irritation, but not enough to
prevent the growth of a real response on Hugh's part to his father's solicitude. The youngster
knew and felt that his father was his father just as certainly as he felt that Mrs. Britling
was not his mother. To his father he brought his successes and to his father he appealed.

But he brought his successes more readily than he brought his troubles. So far as he himself
was concerned he was disposed to take a humorous view of the things that went wrong and didn't
come off with him, but as a "Tremendous Set-Down for the Proud Parent" they resisted humorous
treatment....

Now the trouble that he had been hesitating to bring before his father was concerned with that
very grave interest of the young, his Object in Life. It had nothing to do with those erotic
disturbances that had distressed his father's imagination. Whatever was going on below the
surface of Hugh's smiling or thoughtful presence in that respect had still to come to the surface
and find expression. But he was bothered very much by divergent strands in his own intellectual
composition. Two sets of interests pulled at him, one--it will seem a dry interest to many
readers, but for Hugh it glittered and fascinated--was crystallography and molecular physics;
the other was caricature. Both aptitudes sprang no doubt from the same exceptional sensitiveness
to form. As a schoolboy he exercised both very happily, but now he was getting to the age of
specialisation, and he was fluctuating very much between science and art. After a spell of
scientific study he would come upon a fatigue period and find nothing in life but absurdities
and a lark that one could represent very amusingly; after a bout of funny drawings his mind
went back to his light and crystals and films like a Magdalen repenting in a church. After
his public school he had refused Cambridge and gone to University College, London, to work
under the great and inspiring Professor Cardinal; simultaneously Cardinal had been arranging
to go to Cambridge, and Hugh had scarcely embarked upon his London work when Cardinal was succeeded
by the dull, conscientious and depressing Pelkingham, at whose touch crystals became as puddings,
bubble films like cotton sheets, transparency vanished from the world, and X rays dwarfed and
died. And Hugh degenerated immediately into a scoffing trifler who wished to give up science
for art.

He gave up science for art after grave consultation with his father, and the real trouble that
had been fretting him, it seemed, was that now he repented and wanted to follow Cardinal to
Cambridge, and--a year lost--go on with science again. He felt it was a discreditable fluctuation;
he knew it would be a considerable expense; and so he took two weeks before he could screw
himself up to broaching the matter.

"So that is all," said Mr. Britling, immensely relieved.

"My dear Parent, you didn't think I had backed a bill or forged a cheque?"

"I thought you might have married a chorus girl or something of that sort," said Mr. Britling.

"Or bought a large cream-coloured motor-car for her on the instalment system, which she'd smashed
up. No, that sort of thing comes later.... I'll just put myself down on the waiting list of
one of those bits of delight in the Cambridge tobacco shops--and go on with my studies for
a year or two...."

Section 6

Though Mr. Britling's anxiety about his son was dispelled, his mind remained curiously apprehensive
throughout July. He had a feeling that things were not going well with the world, a feeling
he tried in vain to dispel by various distractions. Perhaps some subtler subconscious analysis
of the situation was working out probabilities that his conscious self would not face. And
when presently he bicycled off to Mrs. Harrowdean for flattery, amusement, and comfort generally,
he found her by no means the exalting confirmation of everything he wished to believe about
himself and the universe, that had been her delightful rôle in the early stages of their romantic
friendship. She maintained her hostility to Edith; she seemed bent on making things impossible.
And yet there were one or two phases of the old sustaining intimacies.

They walked across her absurd little park to the summer-house with the view on the afternoon
of his arrival, and they discussed the Irish pamphlet which was now nearly finished.

"Of course," she said, "it will be a wonderful pamphlet."

There was a reservation in her voice that made him wait.

"But I suppose all sorts of people could write an Irish pamphlet. Nobody but you could write
'The Silent Places.' Oh, why don't you finish that great beautiful thing, and leave all this
world of reality and newspapers, all these Crude, Vulgar, Quarrelsome, Jarring things to other
people? You have the magic gift, you might be a poet, you can take us out of all these horrid
things that are, away to Beautyland, and you are just content to be a critic and a disputer.
It's your surroundings. It's your sordid realities. It's that Practicality at your elbow. You
ought never to see a newspaper. You ought never to have an American come within ten miles of
you. You ought to live on bowls of milk drunk in valleys of asphodel."

Mr. Britling, who liked this sort of thing in a way, and yet at the same time felt ridiculously
distended and altogether preposterous while it was going on, answered feebly and self-consciously.

"There was your letter in the Nation the other day," she said. "Why do you get drawn into arguments?
I wanted to rush into the Nation and pick you up and wipe the anger off you, and carry you
out of it all--into some quiet beautiful place."

"But one has to answer these people," said Mr. Britling, rolling along by the side of her like
a full moon beside Venus, and quite artlessly falling in with the tone of her.

She repeated lines from "The Silent Places" from memory. She threw quite wonderful emotion
into her voice. She made the words glow. And he had only shown her the thing once....

Was he indeed burying a marvellous gift under the dust of current affairs? When at last in
the warm evening light they strolled back from the summer-house to dinner he had definitely
promised her that he would take up and finish "The Silent Places."... And think over the Irish
pamphlet again before he published it....

Pyecrafts was like a crystal casket of finer soil withdrawn from the tarred highways of the
earth....

And yet the very next day this angel enemy of controversies broke out in the most abominable
way about Edith, and he had to tell her more plainly than he had done hitherto, that he could
not tolerate that sort of thing. He wouldn't have Edith guyed. He wouldn't have Edith made
to seem base. And at that there was much trouble between them, and tears and talk of Oliver....

Mr. Britling found himself unable to get on either with "The Silent Places" or the pamphlet,
and he was very unhappy....

Afterwards she repented very touchingly, and said that if only he would love her she would
swallow a thousand Ediths. He waived a certain disrespect in the idea of her swallowing Edith,
and they had a beautiful reconciliation and talked of exalted things, and in the evening he
worked quite well upon "The Silent Places" and thought of half-a-dozen quite wonderful lines,
and in the course of the next day he returned to Dower House and Mr. Direck and considerable
piles of correspondence and the completion of the Irish pamphlet.

But he was restless. He was more restless in his house than he had ever been. He could not
understand it. Everything about him was just as it had always been, and yet it was unsatisfactory,
and it seemed more unstable than anything had ever seemed before. He was bored by the solemn
development of the Irish dispute; he was irritated by the smouldering threat of the Balkans;
he was irritated by the suffragettes and by a string of irrational little strikes; by the general
absence of any main plot as it were to hold all these wranglings and trivialities together....
At the Dower House the most unpleasant thoughts would come to him. He even had doubts whether
in "The Silent Places," he had been plagiarising, more or less unconsciously, from Henry James's
"Great Good Place."...

On the twenty-first of July Gladys came back repaired and looking none the worse for her misadventure.
Next day he drove her very carefully over to Pyecrafts, hoping to drug his uneasiness with
the pretence of a grand passion and the praises of "The Silent Places," that beautiful work
of art that was so free from any taint of application, and alas! he found Mrs. Harrowdean in
an evil mood. He had been away from her for ten days--ten whole days. No doubt Edith had manoeuvred
to keep him. She hadn't! Hadn't she? How was he, poor simple soul! to tell that she hadn't?
That was the prelude to a stormy afternoon.

The burthen of Mrs. Harrowdean was that she was wasting her life, that she was wasting the
poor, good, patient Oliver's life, that for the sake of friendship she was braving the worst
imputations and that he treated her cavalierly, came when he wished to do so, stayed away heartlessly,
never thought she needed little treats, little attentions, little presents. Did he think she
could settle down to her poor work, such as it was, in neglect and loneliness? He forgot women
were dear little tender things, and had to be made happy and kept happy. Oliver might not be
clever and attractive but he did at least in his clumsy way understand and try and do his duty....

Towards the end of the second hour of such complaints the spirit of Mr. Britling rose in revolt.
He lifted up his voice against her, he charged his voice with indignant sorrow and declared
that he had come over to Pyecrafts with no thought in his mind but sweet and loving thoughts,
that he had but waited for Gladys to be ready before he came, that he had brought over the
manuscript of "The Silent Places" with him to polish and finish up, that "for days and days"
he had been longing to do this in the atmosphere of the dear old summer-house with its distant
view of the dear old sea, and that now all that was impossible, that Mrs. Harrowdean had made
it impossible and that indeed she was rapidly making everything impossible....

And having delivered himself of this judgment Mr. Britling, a little surprised at the rapid
vigour of his anger, once he had let it loose, came suddenly to an end of his words, made a
renunciatory gesture with his arms, and as if struck with the idea, rushed out of her room
and out of the house to where Gladys stood waiting. He got into her and started her up, and
after some trouble with the gear due to the violence of his emotion, he turned her round and
departed with her--crushing the corner of a small bed of snapdragon as he turned--and dove
her with a sulky sedulousness back to the Dower House and newspapers and correspondence and
irritations, and that gnawing and irrational sense of a hollow and aimless quality in the world
that he had hoped Mrs. Harrowdean would assuage. And the further he went from Mrs. Harrowdean
the harsher and unjuster it seemed to him that he had been to her.

But he went on because he did not see how he could very well go back.

Section 7

Mr. Direck's broken wrist healed sooner than he desired. From the first he had protested that
it was the sort of thing that one can carry about in a sling, that he was quite capable of
travelling about and taking care of himself in hotels, that he was only staying on at Matching's
Easy because he just loved to stay on and wallow in Mrs. Britling's kindness and Mr. Britling's
company. While as a matter of fact he wallowed as much as he could in the freshness and friendliness
of Miss Cecily Corner, and for more than a third of this period Mr. Britling was away from
home altogether.

Mr. Direck, it should be clear by this time, was a man of more than European simplicity and
directness, and his intentions towards the young lady were as simple and direct and altogether
honest as such intentions can be. It is the American conception of gallantry more than any
other people's, to let the lady call the tune in these affairs; the man's place is to be protective,
propitiatory, accommodating and clever, and the lady's to be difficult but delightful until
he catches her and houses her splendidly and gives her a surprising lot of pocket-money, and
goes about his business; and upon these assumptions Mr. Direck went to work. But quite early
it was manifest to him that Cecily did not recognise his assumptions. She was embarrassed when
he got down one or two little presents of chocolates and flowers for her from London--the Britling
boys were much more appreciative--she wouldn't let him contrive costly little expeditions for
her, and she protested against compliments and declared she would stay away when he paid them.
And she was not contented by his general sentiments about life, but asked the most direct questions
about his occupation and his activities. His chief occupation was being the well provided heir
of a capable lawyer, and his activities in the light of her inquiries struck him as being light
and a trifle amateurish, qualities he had never felt as any drawback about them before. So
that he had to rely rather upon aspirations and the possibility, under proper inspiration,
of a more actively serviceable life in future.

"There's a feeling in the States," he said, "that we've had rather a tendency to overdo work,
and that there is scope for a leisure class to develop the refinement and the wider meanings
of life."

"But a leisure class doesn't mean a class that does nothing," said Cecily. "It only means a
class that isn't busy in business."

"You're too hard on me," said Mr. Direck with that quiet smile of his.

And then by way of putting her on the defensive he asked her what she thought a man in his
position ought to do.

"Something," she said, and in the expansion of this vague demand they touched on a number of
things. She said that she was a Socialist, and there was still in Mr. Direck's composition
a streak of the old-fashioned American prejudice against the word. He associated Socialists
with Anarchists and deported aliens. It was manifest too that she was deeply read in the essays
and dissertations of Mr. Britling. She thought everybody, man or woman, ought to be chiefly
engaged in doing something definite for the world at large. ("There's my secretaryship of the
Massachusetts Modern Thought Society, anyhow," said Mr. Direck.) And she herself wanted to
be doing something--it was just because she did not know what it was she ought to be doing
that she was reading so extensively and voraciously. She wanted to lose herself in something.
Deep in the being of Mr. Direck was the conviction that what she ought to be doing was making
love in a rapturously egotistical manner, and enjoying every scrap of her own delightful self
and her own delightful vitality--while she had it, but for the purposes of their conversation
he did not care to put it any more definitely than to say that he thought we owed it to ourselves
to develop our personalities. Upon which she joined issue with great vigour.

"That is just what Mr. Britling says about you in his 'American Impressions,'" she said. "He
says that America overdoes the development of personalities altogether, that whatever else
is wrong about America that is where America is most clearly wrong. I read that this morning,
and directly I read it I thought, 'Yes, that's exactly it! Mr. Direck is overdoing the development
of personalities.'"

"Me!"

"Yes. I like talking to you and I don't like talking to you. And I see now it is because you
keep on talking of my Personality and your Personality. That makes me uncomfortable. It's like
having some one following me about with a limelight. And in a sort of way I do like it. I like
it and I'm flattered by it, and then I go off and dislike it, dislike the effect of it. I find
myself trying to be what you have told me I am--sort of acting myself. I want to glance at
looking-glasses to see if I am keeping it up. It's just exactly what Mr. Britling says in his
book about American women. They act themselves, he says; they get a kind of story and explanation
about themselves and they are always trying to make it perfectly plain and clear to every one.
Well, when you do that you can't think nicely of other things."

"We like a clear light on people," said Mr. Direck.

"We don't. I suppose we're shadier," said Cecily.

"You're certainly much more in half-tones," said Mr. Direck. "And I confess it's the half-tones
get hold of me. But still you haven't told me, Miss Cissie, what you think I ought to do with
myself. Here I am, you see, very much at your disposal. What sort of business do you think
it's my duty to go in for?"

"That's for some one with more experience than I have, to tell you. You should ask Mr. Britling."

"I'd rather have it from you."

"I don't even know for myself," she said.

"So why shouldn't we start to find out together?" he asked.

It was her tantalising habit to ignore all such tentatives.

"One can't help the feeling that one is in the world for something more than oneself," she said....

Section 8

Soon Mr. Direck could measure the time that was left to him at the Dower House no longer by
days but by hours. His luggage was mostly packed, his tickets to Rotterdam, Cologne, Munich,
Dresden, Vienna, were all in order. And things were still very indefinite between him and Cecily.
But God has not made Americans clean-shaven and firm-featured for nothing, and he determined
that matters must be brought to some sort of definition before he embarked upon travels that
were rapidly losing their attractiveness in this concentration of his attention....

A considerable nervousness betrayed itself in his voice and manner when at last he carried
out his determination.

"There's just a lil' thing," he said to her, taking advantage of a moment when they were together
after lunch, "that I'd value now more than anything else in the world."

She answered by a lifted eyebrow and a glance that had not so much inquiry in it as she intended.

"If we could just take a lil' walk together for a bit. Round by Claverings Park and all that.
See the deer again and the old trees. Sort of scenery I'd like to remember when I'm away from it."

He was a little short of breath, and there was a quite disproportionate gravity about her moment
for consideration.

"Yes," she said with a cheerful acquiescence that came a couple of bars too late. "Let's. It
will be jolly."

"These fine English afternoons are wonderful afternoons," he remarked after a moment or so
of silence. "Not quite the splendid blaze we get in our summer, but--sort of glowing."

"It's been very fine all the time you've been here," she said....

After which exchanges they went along the lane, into the road by the park fencing, and so to
the little gate that lets one into the park, without another word.

The idea took hold of Mr. Direck's mind that until they got through the park gate it would
be quite out of order to say anything. The lane and the road and the stile and the gate were
all so much preliminary stuff to be got through before one could get to business. But after
the little white gate the way was clear, the park opened out and one could get ahead without
bothering about the steering. And Mr. Direck had, he felt, been diplomatically involved in
lanes and by-ways long enough.

"Well," he said as he rejoined her after very carefully closing the gate. "What I really wanted
was an opportunity of just mentioning something that happens to be of interest to you--if it
does happen to interest you.... I suppose I'd better put the thing as simply as possible....
Practically.... I'm just right over the head and all in love with you.... I thought I'd like
to tell you...."

Immense silences.

"Of course I won't pretend there haven't been others," Mr. Direck suddenly resumed. "There
have. One particularly. But I can assure you I've never felt the depth and height or anything
like the sort of Quiet Clear Conviction.... And now I'm just telling you these things, Miss
Corner, I don't know whether it will interest you if I tell you that you're really and truly
the very first love I ever had as well as my last. I've had sent over--I got it only yesterday--this
lil' photograph of a miniature portrait of one of my ancestor's relations--a Corner just as
you are. It's here...."

He had considerable difficulties with his pockets and papers. Cecily, mute and flushed and
inconvenienced by a preposterous and unaccountable impulse to weep, took the picture he handed her.

"When I was a lil' fellow of fifteen," said Mr. Direck in the tone of one producing a melancholy
but conclusive piece of evidence, "I worshipped that miniature. It seemed to me--the loveliest
person.... And--it's just you...."

He too was preposterously moved.

It seemed a long time before Cecily had anything to say, and then what she had to say she said
in a softened, indistinct voice. "You're very kind," she said, and kept hold of the little
photograph.

They had halted for the photograph. Now they walked on again.

"I thought I'd like to tell you," said Mr. Direck and became tremendously silent.

Cecily found him incredibly difficult to answer. She tried to make herself light and offhand,
and to be very frank with him.

"Of course," she said, "I knew--I felt somehow--you meant to say something of this sort to
me--when you asked me to come with you--"

"Well?" he said.

"And I've been trying to make my poor brain think of something to say to you."

She paused and contemplated her difficulties....

"Couldn't you perhaps say something of the same kind--such as I've been trying to say?" said
Mr. Direck presently, with a note of earnest helpfulness. "I'd be very glad if you could."

"Not exactly," said Cecily, more careful than ever.

"Meaning?"

"I think you know that you are the best of friends. I think you are, oh--a Perfect Dear."

"Well--that's all right--so far."

"That is as far."

"You don't know whether you love me? That's what you mean to say."

"No.... I feel somehow it isn't that.... Yet...."

"There's nobody else by any chance?"

"No." Cecily weighed things. "You needn't trouble about that."

"Only ... only you don't know."

Cecily made a movement of assent.

"It's no good pretending I haven't thought about you," she said.

"Well, anyhow I've done my best to give you the idea," said Mr. Direck. "I seem now to have
been doing that pretty nearly all the time."

"Only what should we do?"

Mr. Direck felt this question was singularly artless. "Why!--we'd marry," he said. "And all
that sort of thing."

"Letty has married--and all that sort of thing," said Cecily, fixing her eye on him very firmly
because she was colouring brightly. "And it doesn't leave Letty very much--forrader."

"Well now, they have a good time, don't they? I'd have thought they have a lovely time!"

"They've had a lovely time. And Teddy is the dearest husband. And they have a sweet little
house and a most amusing baby. And they play hockey every Sunday. And Teddy does his work.
And every week is like every other week. It is just heavenly. Just always the same heavenly.
Every Sunday there is a fresh week of heavenly beginning. And this, you see, isn't heaven;
it is earth. And they don't know it but they are getting bored. I have been watching them,
and they are getting dreadfully bored. It's heart-breaking to watch, because they are almost
my dearest people. Teddy used to be making perpetual jokes about the house and the baby and
his work and Letty, and now--he's made all the possible jokes. It's only now and then he gets
a fresh one. It's like spring flowers and then--summer. And Letty sits about and doesn't sing.
They want something new to happen.... And there's Mr. and Mrs. Britling. They love each other.
Much more than Mrs. Britling dreams, or Mr. Britling for the matter of that. Once upon a time
things were heavenly for them too, I suppose. Until suddenly it began to happen to them that
nothing new ever happened...."

"Well," said Mr. Direck, "people can travel."

"But that isn't real happening," said Cecily.

"It keeps one interested."

"But real happening is doing something."

"You come back to that," said Mr. Direck. "I never met any one before who'd quite got that
spirit as you have it. I wouldn't alter it. It's part of you. It's part of this place. It's
what Mr. Britling always seems to be saying and never quite knowing he's said it. It's just
as though all the things that are going on weren't the things that ought to be going on--but
something else quite different. Somehow one falls into it. It's as if your daily life didn't
matter, as if politics didn't matter, as if the King and the social round and business and
all those things weren't anything really, and as though you felt there was something else--out
of sight--round the corner--that you ought to be getting at. Well, I admit, that's got hold
of me too. And it's all mixed up with my idea of you. I don't see that there's really a contradiction
in it at all. I'm in love with you, all my heart's in love with you, what's the good of being
shy about it? I'd just die for your littlest wish right here now, it's just as though I'd got
love in my veins instead of blood, but that's not taking me away from that other thing. It's
bringing me round to that other thing. I feel as if without you I wasn't up to anything at
all, but with you--We'd not go settling down in a cottage or just touring about with a Baedeker
Guide or anything of that kind. Not for long anyhow. We'd naturally settle down side by side
and do ..."

"But what should we do?" asked Cecily.

There came a hiatus in their talk.

Mr. Direck took a deep breath.

"You see that old felled tree there. I was sitting on it the day before yesterday and thinking
of you. Will you come there and sit with me on it? When you sit on it you get a view, oh! a
perfectly lovely English view, just a bit of the house and those clumps of trees and the valley
away there with the lily pond. I'd love to have you in my memory of it...."

They sat down, and Mr. Direck opened his case. He was shy and clumsy about opening it, because
he had been thinking dreadfully hard about it, and he hated to seem heavy or profound or anything
but artless and spontaneous to Cecily. And he felt even when he did open his case that the
effect of it was platitudinous and disappointing. Yet when he had thought it out it had seemed
very profound and altogether living.

"You see one doesn't want to use terms that have been used in a thousand different senses in
any way that isn't a perfectly unambiguous sense, and at the same time one doesn't want to
seem to be canting about things or pitching anything a note or two higher than it ought legitimately
to go, but it seems to me that this sort of something that Mr. Britling is always asking for
in his essays and writings and things, and what you are looking for just as much and which
seems so important to you that even love itself is a secondary kind of thing until you can
square the two together, is nothing more nor less than Religion--I don't mean this Religion
or that Religion but just Religion itself, a Big, Solemn, Comprehensive Idea that holds you
and me and all the world together in one great, grand universal scheme. And though it isn't
quite the sort of idea of love-making that's been popular--well, in places like Carrierville--for
some time, it's the right idea; it's got to be followed out if we don't want love-making to
be a sort of idle, troublesome game of treats and flatteries that is sure as anything to lead
right away to disappointments and foolishness and unfaithfulness and--just Hell. What you are
driving at, according to my interpretation, is that marriage has got to be a religious marriage
or else you are splitting up life, that religion and love are most of life and all the power
there is in it, and that they can't afford to be harnessed in two different directions....
I never had these ideas until I came here and met you, but they come up now in my mind as though
they had always been there.... And that's why you don't want to marry in a hurry. And that's
why I'm glad almost that you don't want to marry in a hurry."

He considered. "That's why I'll have to go on to Germany and just let both of us turn things
over in our minds."

"Yes," said Cecily, weighing his speech. "I think that is it. I think that I do want a religious
marriage, and that what is wrong with Teddy and Letty is that they aren't religious. They pretend
they are religious somewhere out of sight and round the corner.... Only--"

He considered her gravely.

"What is Religion?" she asked.

Here again there was a considerable pause.

"Very nearly two-thirds of the papers read before our Massachusetts society since my connection
with it, have dealt with that very question," Mr. Direck began. "And one of our most influential
members was able to secure the services of a very able and highly trained young woman from
Michigan University, to make a digest of all these representative utterances. We are having
it printed in a thoroughly artistic mariner, as the club book for our autumn season. The drift
of her results is that religion isn't the same thing as religions. That most religions are
old and that religion is always new.... Well, putting it simply, religion is the perpetual
rediscovery of that Great Thing Out There.... What the Great Thing is goes by all sorts of
names, but if you know it's there and if you remember it's there, you've got religion.... That's
about how she figured it out.... I shall send you the book as soon as a copy comes over to
me.... I can't profess to put it as clearly as she puts it. She's got a real analytical mind.
But it's one of the most suggestive lil' books I've ever seen. It just takes hold of you and
makes you think."

He paused and regarded the ground before him--thoughtfully.

"Life," said Cecily, "has either got to be religious or else it goes to pieces.... Perhaps
anyhow it goes to pieces...."

Mr. Direck endorsed these observations by a slow nodding of the head.

He allowed a certain interval to elapse. Then a vaguely apprehended purpose that had been for
a time forgotten in these higher interests came back to him. He took it up with a breathless
sense of temerity.

"Well," he said, "then you don't hate me?"

She smiled.

"You don't dislike me or despise me?"

She was still reassuring.

"You don't think I'm just a slow American sort of portent?"

"No."

"You think, on the whole, I might even--someday--?"

She tried to meet his eyes with a pleasant frankness, and perhaps she was franker than she
meant to be.

"Look here," said Mr. Direck, with a little quiver of emotion softening his mouth. "I'll ask
you something. We've got to wait. Until you feel clearer. Still.... Could you bring yourself--?
If just once--I could kiss you....

"I'm going away to Germany," he went on to her silence. "But I shan't be giving so much attention
to Germany as I supposed I should when I planned it out. But somehow--if I felt--that I'd kissed
you...."

With a delusive effect of calmness the young lady looked first over her left shoulder and then
over her right and surveyed the park about them. Then she stood up. "We can go that way home,"
she said with a movement of her head, "through the little covert."

Mr. Direck stood up too.

"If I was a poet or a bird," said Mr. Direck, "I should sing. But being just a plain American
citizen all I can do is just to talk about all I'd do if I wasn't...."

And when they had reached the little covert, with its pathway of soft moss and its sheltering
screen of interlacing branches, he broke the silence by saying, "Well, what's wrong with right
here and now?" and Cecily stood up to him as straight as a spear, with gifts in her clear eyes.
He took her soft cool face between his trembling hands, and kissed her sweet half-parted lips.
When he kissed her she shivered, and he held her tighter and would have kissed her again. But
she broke away from him, and he did not press her. And muter than ever, pondering deeply, and
secretly trembling in the queerest way, these two outwardly sedate young people returned to
the Dower House....

And after tea the taxicab from the junction came for him and he vanished, and was last seen
as a waving hat receding along the top of the dog-rose hedge that ran beyond the hockey field
towards the village.

"He will see Germany long before I shall," said Herr Heinrich with a gust of nostalgia. "I
wish almost I had not agreed to go to Boulogne."

And for some days Miss Cecily Corner was a very grave and dignified young woman indeed. Pondering....

Section 9

After the departure of Mr. Direck things international began to move forward with great rapidity.
It was exactly as if his American deliberation had hitherto kept things waiting. Before his
postcard from Rotterdam reached the Dower House Austria had sent an ultimatum to Serbia, and
before Cecily had got the letter he wrote her from Cologne, a letter in that curiously unformed
handwriting the stenographer and the typewriter are making an American characteristic, Russia
was mobilising, and the vast prospect of a European war had opened like the rolling up of a
curtain on which the interests of the former week had been but a trivial embroidery. So insistent
was this reality that revealed itself that even the shooting of the Dublin people after the
gun-running of Howth was dwarfed to unimportance. The mind of Mr. Britling came round from
its restless wanderings to a more and more intent contemplation of the hurrying storm-clouds
that swept out of nothingness to blacken all his sky. He watched it, he watched amazed and
incredulous, he watched this contradiction of all his reiterated confessions of faith in German
sanity and pacifism, he watched it with all that was impersonal in his being, and meanwhile
his personal life ran in a continually deeper and narrower channel as his intelligence was
withdrawn from it.

Never had the double refraction of his mind been more clearly defined. On the one hand the
Britling of the disinterested intelligence saw the habitual peace of the world vanish as the
daylight vanishes when a shutter falls over the window of a cell; and on the other the Britling
of the private life saw all the pleasant comfort of his relations with Mrs. Harrowdean disappearing
in a perplexing irrational quarrel. He did not want to lose Mrs. Harrowdean; he contemplated
their breach with a profound and profoundly selfish dismay. It seemed the wanton termination
of an arrangement of which he was only beginning to perceive the extreme and irreplaceable
satisfactoriness.

It wasn't that he was in love with her. He knew almost as clearly as though he had told himself
as much that he was not. But then, on the other hand, it was equally manifest in its subdued
and ignored way that as a matter of fact she was hardly more in love with him. What constituted
the satisfactoriness of the whole affair was its essential unlovingness and friendly want of
emotion. It left their minds free to play with all the terms and methods of love without distress.
She could summon tears and delights as one summons servants, and he could act his part as lover
with no sense of lost control. They supplied in each other's lives a long-felt want--if only,
that is, she could control her curious aptitude for jealousy and the sexual impulse to vex.
There, he felt, she broke the convention of their relations and brought in serious realities,
and this little rift it was that had widened to a now considerable breach. He knew that in
every sane moment she dreaded and wished to heal that breach as much as he did. But the deep
simplicities of the instincts they had tacitly agreed to bridge over washed the piers of their
reconciliation away.

And unless they could restore the bridge things would end, and Mr. Britling felt that the ending
of things would involve for him the most extraordinary exasperation. She would go to Oliver
for comfort; she would marry Oliver; and he knew her well enough to be sure that she would
thrust her matrimonial happiness with Oliver unsparingly upon his attention; while he, on the
other hand, being provided with no corresponding Olivette, would be left, a sort of emotional
celibate, with his slack times and his afternoons and his general need for flattery and amusement
dreadfully upon his own hands. He would be tormented by jealousy. In which case--and here he
came to verities--his work would suffer. It wouldn't grip him while all these vague demands
she satisfied fermented unassuaged.

And, after the fashion of our still too adolescent world, Mr. Britling and Mrs. Harrowdean
proceeded to negotiate these extremely unromantic matters in the phrases of that simple, honest
and youthful passionateness which is still the only language available, and at times Mr. Britling
came very near persuading himself that he had something of the passionate love for her that
he had once had for his Mary, and that the possible loss of her had nothing to do with the
convenience of Pyecrafts or any discretion in the world. Though indeed the only thing in the
whole plexus of emotional possibility that still kept anything of its youthful freshness in
his mind was the very strong objection indeed he felt to handing her over to anybody else in
the world. And in addition he had just a touch of fatherly feeling that a younger man would
not have had, and it made him feel very anxious to prevent her making a fool of herself by
marrying a man out of spite. He felt that since an obstinate lover is apt to be an exacting
husband, in the end the heavy predominance of Oliver might wring much sincerer tears from her
than she had ever shed for himself. But that generosity was but the bright edge to a mainly
possessive jealousy.

It was Mr. Britling who reopened the correspondence by writing a little apology for the corner
of the small snapdragon bed, and this evoked an admirably touching reply. He replied quite
naturally with assurances and declarations. But before she got his second letter her mood had
changed. She decided that if he had really and truly been lovingly sorry, instead of just writing
a note to her he would have rushed over to her in a wild, dramatic state of mind, and begged
forgiveness on his knees. She wrote therefore a second letter to this effect, crossing his
second one, and, her literary gift getting the better of her, she expanded her thesis into
a general denunciation of his habitual off-handedness with her, to an abandonment of all hope
of ever being happy with him, to a decision to end the matter once for all, and after a decent
interval of dignified regrets to summon Oliver to the reward of his patience and goodness.
The European situation was now at a pitch to get upon Mr. Britling's nerves, and he replied
with a letter intended to be conciliatory, but which degenerated into earnest reproaches for
her "unreasonableness." Meanwhile she had received his second and tenderly eloquent letter;
it moved her deeply, and having now cleared her mind of much that had kept it simmering uncomfortably,
she replied with a sweetly loving epistle. From this point their correspondence had a kind
of double quality, being intermittently angry and loving; her third letter was tender, and
it was tenderly answered in his fourth; but in the interim she had received his third and answered
it with considerable acerbity, to which his fifth was a retort, just missing her generous and
conclusive fifth. She replied to his fifth on a Saturday evening--it was that eventful Saturday,
Saturday the First of August, 1914--by a telegram. Oliver was abroad in Holland, engaged in
a much-needed emotional rest, and she wired to Mr. Britling: "Have wired for Oliver, he will
come to me, do not trouble to answer this."

She was astonished to get no reply for two days. She got no reply for two days because remarkable
things were happening to the telegraph wires of England just then, and her message, in the
hands of a boy scout on a bicycle, reached Mr. Britling's house only on Monday afternoon. He
was then at Claverings discussing the invasion of Belgium that made Britain's participation
in the war inevitable, and he did not open the little red-brown envelope until about half-past
six. He failed to mark the date and hours upon it, but he perceived that it was essentially
a challenge. He was expected, he saw, to go over at once with his renovated Gladys and end
this unfortunate clash forever in one striking and passionate scene. His mind was now so full
of the war that he found this the most colourless and unattractive of obligations. But he felt
bound by the mysterious code of honour of the illicit love affair to play his part. He postponed
his departure until after supper--there was no reason why he should be afraid of motoring by
moonlight if he went carefully--because Hugh came in with Cissie demanding a game of hockey.
Hockey offered a nervous refreshment, a scampering forgetfulness of the tremendous disaster
of this war he had always believed impossible, that nothing else could do, and he was very
glad indeed of the irruption....

Section 10

For days the broader side of Mr. Britling's mind, as distinguished from its egotistical edge,
had been reflecting more and more vividly and coherently the spectacle of civilisation casting
aside the thousand dispersed activities of peace, clutching its weapons and setting its teeth,
for a supreme struggle against militarist imperialism. From the point of view of Matching's
Easy that colossal crystallising of accumulated antagonisms was for a time no more than a confusion
of headlines and a rearrangement of columns in the white windows of the newspapers through
which those who lived in the securities of England looked out upon the world. It was a display
in the sphere of thought and print immeasurably remote from the real green turf on which one
walked, from the voice and the church-bells of Mr. Dimple that sounded their ample caresses
in one's ears, from the clashing of the stags who were beginning to knock the velvet from their
horns in the park, or the clatter of the butcher's cart and the respectful greeting of the
butcher boy down the lane. It was the spectacle of the world less real even to most imaginations
than the world of novels or plays. People talked of these things always with an underlying
feeling that they romanced and intellectualised.

On Thursday, July 23rd, the Austro-Hungarian minister at Belgrade presented his impossible
ultimatum to the Serbian government, and demanded a reply within forty-eight hours. With the
wisdom of retrospect we know now clearly enough what that meant. The Sarajevo crime was to
be resuscitated and made an excuse for war. But nine hundred and ninety-nine Europeans out
of a thousand had still no suspicion of what was happening to them. The ultimatum figured prominently
in the morning papers that came to Matching's Easy on Friday, but it by no means dominated
the rest of the news; Sir Edward Carson's rejection of the government proposals for Ulster
was given the pride of place, and almost equally conspicuous with the Serbian news were the
Caillaux trial and the storming of the St. Petersburg barricades by Cossacks. Herr Heinrich's
questions at lunch time received reassuring replies.

On Saturday Sir Edward Carson was still in the central limelight, Russia had intervened and
demanded more time for Serbia, and the Daily Chronicle declared the day a critical one for
Europe. Dublin with bayonet charges and bullets thrust Serbia into a corner on Monday. No shots
had yet been fired in the East, and the mischief in Ireland that Germany had counted on was
well ahead. Sir Edward Grey was said to be working hard for peace.

"It's the cry of wolf," said Mr. Britling to Herr Heinrich.

"But at last there did come a wolf," said Herr Heinrich. "I wish I had not sent my first moneys
to that Conference upon Esperanto. I feel sure it will be put off."

"See!" said Teddy very cheerfully to Herr Heinrich on Tuesday, and held up the paper, in which
"The Bloodshed in Dublin" had squeezed the "War Cloud Lifting" into a quite subordinate position.

"What did we tell you?" said Mrs. Britling. "Nobody wants a European war."

But Wednesday's paper vindicated his fears. Germany had commanded Russia not to mobilise.

"Of course Russia will mobilise," said Herr Heinrich.

"Or else forever after hold her peace," said Teddy.

"And then Germany will mobilise," said Herr Heinrich, "and all my holiday will vanish. I shall
have to go and mobilise too. I shall have to fight. I have my papers."

"I never thought of you as a soldier before," said Teddy.

"I have deferred my service until I have done my thesis," said Herr Heinrich. "Now all that
will be--Piff! And my thesis three-quarters finished."

"That is serious," said Teddy.

"Verdammte Dummheit!" said Herr Heinrich. "Why do they do such things?"

On Thursday, the 30th of July, Caillaux, Carson, strikes, and all the common topics of life
had been swept out of the front page of the paper altogether; the stock exchanges were in a
state of wild perturbation, and food prices were leaping fantastically. Austria was bombarding
Belgrade, contrary to the rules of war hitherto accepted; Russia was mobilising; Mr. Asquith
was, he declared, not relaxing his efforts "to do everything possible to circumscribe the area
of possible conflict," and the Vienna Conference of Peace Societies was postponed. "I do not
see why a conflict between Russia and Austria should involve Western Europe," said Mr. Britling.
"Our concern is only for Belgium and France."

But Herr Heinrich knew better. "No," he said. "It is the war. It has come. I have heard it
talked about in Germany many times. But I have never believed that it was obliged to come.
Ach! It considers no one. So long as Esperanto is disregarded, all these things must be."

Friday brought photographs of the mobilisation in Vienna, and the news that Belgrade was burning.
Young men in straw hats very like English or French or Belgian young men in straw hats were
shown parading the streets of Vienna, carrying flags and banners portentously, blowing trumpets
or waving hats and shouting. Saturday saw all Europe mobilising, and Herr Heinrich upon Teddy's
bicycle in wild pursuit of evening papers at the junction. Mobilisation and the emotions of
Herr Heinrich now became the central facts of the Dower House situation. The two younger Britlings
mobilised with great vigour upon the playroom floor. The elder had one hundred and ninety toy
soldiers with a considerable equipment of guns and wagons; the younger had a force of a hundred
and twenty-three, not counting three railway porters (with trucks complete), a policeman, five
civilians and two ladies. Also they made a number of British and German flags out of paper.
But as neither would allow his troops to be any existing foreign army, they agreed to be Redland
and Blueland, according to the colour of their prevailing uniforms. Meanwhile Herr Heinrich
confessed almost promiscuously the complication of his distresses by a hitherto unexpected
emotional interest in the daughter of the village publican. She was a placid receptive young
woman named Maud Hickson, on whom the young man had, it seemed, imposed the more poetical name
of Marguerite.

"Often we have spoken together, oh yes, often," he assured Mrs. Britling. "And now it must
all end. She loves flowers, she loves birds. She is most sweet and innocent. I have taught
her many words in German and several times I have tried to draw her in pencil, and now I must
go away and never see her any more."

His implicit appeal to the whole literature of Teutonic romanticism disarmed Mrs. Britling's
objection that he had no business whatever to know the young woman at all.

"Also," cried Herr Heinrich, facing another aspect of his distresses, "how am I to pack my
things? Since I have been here I have bought many things, many books, and two pairs of white
flannel trousers and some shirts and a tin instrument that I cannot work, for developing privately
Kodak films. All this must go into my little portmanteau. And it will not go into my little
portmanteau!

"And there is Billy! Who will now go on with the education of Billy?"

The hands of fate paused not for Herr Heinrich's embarrassments and distresses. He fretted
from his room downstairs and back to his room, he went out upon mysterious and futile errands
towards the village inn, he prowled about the garden. His head and face grew pinker and pinker;
his eyes were flushed and distressed. Everybody sought to say and do kind and reassuring things
to him.

"Ach!" he said to Teddy; "you are a civilian. You live in a free country. It is not your war.
You can be amused at it...."

But then Teddy was amused at everything.

Something but very dimly apprehended at Matching's Easy, something methodical and compelling
away in London, seemed to be fumbling and feeling after Herr Heinrich, and Herr Heinrich it
appeared was responding. Sunday's post brought the decision.

"I have to go," he said. "I must go right up to London to-day. To an address in Bloomsbury.
Then they will tell me how to go to Germany. I must pack and I must get the taxi-cab from the
junction and I must go. Why are there no trains on the branch line on Sundays for me to go by it?"

At lunch he talked politics. "I am entirely opposed to the war," he said. "I am entirely opposed
to any war."

"Then why go?" asked Mr. Britling. "Stay here with us. We all like you. Stay here and do not
answer your mobilisation summons."

"But then I shall lose all my country. I shall lose my papers. I shall be outcast. I must go."

"I suppose a man should go with his own country," Mr. Britling reflected.

"If there was only one language in all the world, none of such things would happen," Herr Heinrich
declared. "There would be no English, no Germans, no Russians."

"Just Esperantists," said Teddy.

"Or Idoists," said Herr Heinrich. "I am not convinced of which. In some ways Ido is much better."

"Perhaps there would have to be a war between Ido and Esperanto to settle it," said Teddy.

"Who shall we play skat with when you have gone?" asked Mrs. Britling.

"All this morning," said Herr Heinrich, expanding in the warmth of sympathy, "I have been trying
to pack and I have been unable to pack. My mind is too greatly disordered. I have been told
not to bring much luggage. Mrs. Britling, please."

Mrs. Britling became attentive.

"If I could leave much of my luggage, my clothes, some of them, and particularly my violin,
it would be much more to my convenience. I do not care to be mobilised with my violin. There
may be much crowding. Then I would but just take my rucksack...."

"If you will leave your things packed up."

"And afterwards they could be sent."

But he did not leave them packed up. The taxi-cab, to order which he had gone to the junction
in the morning on Teddy's complaisant machine, came presently to carry him off, and the whole
family and the first contingent of the usual hockey players gathered about it to see him off.
The elder boy of the two juniors put a distended rucksack upon the seat. Herr Heinrich then
shook hands with every one.

"Write and tell us how you get on," cried Mrs. Britling.

"But if England also makes war!"

"Write to Reynolds--let me give you his address; he is my agent in New York," said Mr. Britling,
and wrote it down.

"We'll come to the village corner with you, Herr Heinrich," cried the boys.

"No," said Herr Heinrich, sitting down into the automobile, "I will part with you altogether.
It is too much...."

"Auf Wiedersehen!" cried Mr. Britling. "Remember, whatever happens there will be peace at last!"

"Then why not at the beginning?" Herr Heinrich demanded with a reasonable exasperation and
repeated his maturer verdict on the whole European situation; "Verdammte Bummelei!"

"Go," said Mr. Britling to the taxi driver.

"Auf Wiedersehen, Herr Heinrich!"

"Auf Wiedersehen!"

"Good-bye, Herr Heinrich!"

"Good luck, Herr Heinrich!"

The taxi started with a whir, and Herr Heinrich passed out of the gates and along the same
hungry road that had so recently consumed Mr. Direck. "Give him a last send-off," cried Teddy.
"One, Two, Three! Auf Wiedersehen!"

The voices, gruff and shrill, sounded raggedly together. The dog-rose hedge cut off the sight
of the little face. Then the pink head bobbed up again. He was standing up and waving the panama
hat. Careless of sunstroke....

Then Herr Heinrich had gone altogether....

"Well," said Mr. Britling, turning away.

"I do hope they won't hurt him," said a visitor.

"Oh, they won't put a youngster like that in the fighting line," said Mr. Britling. "He's had
no training yet. And he has to wear glasses. How can he shoot? They'll make a clerk of him."

"He hasn't packed at all," said Mrs. Britling to her husband. "Just come up for an instant
and peep at his room. It's--touching."

It was touching.

It was more than touching; in its minute, absurd way it was symbolical and prophetic, it was
the miniature of one small life uprooted.

The door stood wide open, as he had left it open, careless of all the little jealousies and
privacies of occupation and ownership. Even the windows were wide open as though he had needed
air; he who had always so sedulously shut his windows since first he came to England. Across
the empty fireplace stretched the great bough of oak he had brought in for Billy, but now its
twigs and leaves had wilted, and many had broken off and fallen on the floor. Billy's cage
stood empty upon a little table in the corner of the room. Instead of packing, the young man
had evidently paced up and down in a state of emotional elaboration; the bed was disordered
as though he had several times flung himself upon it, and his books had been thrown about the
room despairfully. He had made some little commencements of packing in a borrowed cardboard
box. The violin lay as if it lay in state upon the chest of drawers, the drawers were all partially
open, and in the middle of the floor sprawled a pitiful shirt of blue, dropped there, the most
flattened and broken-hearted of garments. The fireplace contained an unsuccessful pencil sketch
of a girl's face, torn across....

Husband and wife regarded the abandoned room in silence for a time, and when Mr. Britling spoke
he lowered his voice.

"I don't see Billy," he said.

"Perhaps he has gone out of the window," said Mrs. Britling also in a hushed undertone....

"Well," said Mr. Britling abruptly and loudly, turning away from this first intimation of coming
desolations, "let us go down to our hockey! He had to go, you know. And Billy will probably
come back again when he begins to feel hungry...."

Section 11

Monday was a public holiday, the First Monday in August, and the day consecrated by long-established
custom to the Matching's Easy Flower Show in Claverings Park. The day was to live in Mr. Britling's
memory with a harsh brightness like the brightness of that sunshine one sees at times at the
edge of a thunderstorm. There were tents with the exhibits, and a tent for "Popular Refreshments,"
there was a gorgeous gold and yellow steam roundabout with motor-cars and horses, and another
in green and silver with wonderfully undulating ostriches and lions, and each had an organ
that went by steam; there were cocoanut shies and many ingenious prize-giving shooting and
dart-throwing and ring-throwing stalls, each displaying a marvellous array of crockery, clocks,
metal ornaments, and suchlike rewards. There was a race of gas balloons, each with a postcard
attached to it begging the finder to say where it descended, and you could get a balloon for
a shilling and have a chance of winning various impressive and embarrassing prizes if your
balloon went far enough--fish carvers, a silver-handled walking-stick, a bog-oak gramophone-record
cabinet, and things like that. And by a special gate one could go for sixpence into the Claverings
gardens, and the sixpence would be doubled by Lady Homartyn and devoted next winter to the
Matching's Easy coal club. And Mr. Britling went through all the shows with his boys, and finally
left them with a shilling each and his blessing and paid his sixpence for the gardens and made
his way as he had promised, to have tea with Lady Homartyn.

The morning papers had arrived late, and he had been reading them and re-reading them and musing
over them intermittently until his family had insisted upon his coming out to the festivities.
They said that if for no other reason he must come to witness Aunt Wilshire's extraordinary
skill at the cocoanut shy. She could beat everybody. Well, one must not miss a thing like that.
The headlines proclaimed, "The Great Powers at War; France Invaded by Germany; Germany invaded
by Russia; 100,000 Germans march into Luxemburg; Can England Abstain? Fifty Million Loan to
be Issued." And Germany had not only violated the Treaty of London but she had seized a British
ship in the Kiel Canal.... The roundabouts were very busy and windily melodious, and the shooting
gallery kept popping and jingling as people shot and broke bottles, and the voices of the young
men and women inviting the crowd to try their luck at this and that rang loud and clear. Teddy
and Letty and Cissie and Hugh were developing a quite disconcerting skill at the dart-throwing,
and were bent upon compiling a complete tea-set for the Teddy cottage out of their winnings.
There was a score of automobiles and a number of traps and gigs about the entrance to the portion
of the park that had been railed off for the festival, the small Britling boys had met some
nursery visitors from Claverings House and were busy displaying skill and calm upon the roundabout
ostriches, and less than four hundred miles away with a front that reached from Nancy to Liège
more than a million and a quarter of grey-clad men, the greatest and best-equipped host the
world had ever seen, were pouring westward to take Paris, grip and paralyse France, seize the
Channel ports, invade England, and make the German Empire the master-state of the earth. Their
equipment was a marvel of foresight and scientific organisation, from the motor kitchens that
rumbled in their wake to the telescopic sights of the sharp-shooters, the innumerable machine-guns
of the infantry, the supply of entrenching material, the preparations already made in the invaded
country....

"Let's try at the other place for the sugar-basin!" said Teddy, hurrying past. "Don't get two
sugar-basins," said Cissie breathless in pursuit. "Hugh is trying for a sugar-basin at the
other place."

Then Mr. Britling heard a bellicose note.

"Let's have a go at the bottles," said a cheerful young farmer. "Ought to keep up our shooting,
these warlike times...."

Mr. Britling ran against Hickson from the village inn and learnt that he was disturbed about
his son being called up as a reservist. "Just when he was settling down here. It seems a pity
they couldn't leave him for a bit."

"'Tis a noosence," said Hickson, "but anyhow, they give first prize to his radishes. He'll
be glad to hear they give first prize to his radishes. Do you think, Sir, there's very much
probability of this war? It do seem to be beginning like."

"It looks more like beginning than it has ever done," said Mr. Britling. "It's a foolish business."

"I suppose if they start in on us we got to hit back at them," said Mr. Hickson. "Postman--he's
got his papers too...."

Mr. Britling made his way through the drifting throng towards the little wicket that led into
the Gardens....

He was swung round suddenly by a loud bang.

It was the gun proclaiming the start of the balloon race.

He stood for some moments watching the scene. The balloon start had gathered a little crowd
of people, village girls in white gloves and cheerful hats, young men in bright ties and ready-made
Sunday suits, fathers and mothers, boy scouts, children, clerks in straw hats, bicyclists and
miscellaneous folk. Over their heads rose Mr. Cheshunt, the factotum of the estate. He was
standing on a table and handing the little balloons up into the air one by one. They floated
up from his hand like many-coloured grapes, some rising and falling, some soaring steadily
upward, some spinning and eddying, drifting eastward before the gentle breeze, a string of
bubbles against the sky and the big trees that bounded the park. Farther away to the right
were the striped canvas tents of the flower-show, still farther off the roundabouts churned
out their music, the shooting galleries popped, and the swing boats creaked through the air.
Cut off from these things by a line of fencing lay the open park in which the deer grouped
themselves under the great trees and regarded the festival mistrustfully. Teddy and Hugh appeared
breaking away from the balloon race cluster, and hurrying back to their dart-throwing. A man
outside a little tent that stood apart was putting up a brave-looking notice, "Unstinted Teas
One Shilling." The Teddy perambulator was moored against the cocoanut shy, and Aunt Wilshire
was still displaying her terrible prowess at the cocoanuts. Already she had won twenty-seven.
Strange children had been impressed by her to carry them, and formed her retinue. A wonderful
old lady was Aunt Wilshire....

Then across all the sunshine of this artless festival there appeared, as if it were writing
showing through a picture, "France Invaded by Germany; Germany Invaded by Russia."

Mr. Britling turned again towards the wicket, with its collectors of tribute, that led into
the Gardens.

Section 12

The Claverings gardens, and particularly the great rockery, the lily pond, and the herbaceous
borders, were unusually populous with unaccustomed visitors and shy young couples. Mr. Britling
had to go to the house for instructions, and guided by the under-butler found Lady Homartyn
hiding away in the walled Dutch garden behind the dairy. She had been giving away the prizes
of the flower-show, and she was resting in a deck chair while a spinster relation presided
over the tea. Mrs. Britling had fled the outer festival earlier, and was sitting by the tea-things.
Lady Meade and two or three visitors had motored out from Hartleytree to assist, and Manning
had come in with his tremendous confirmation of all that the morning papers had foreshadowed.

"Have you any news?" asked Mr. Britling.

"It's war!" said Mrs. Britling.

"They are in Luxemburg," said Manning. "That can only mean that they are coming through Belgium."

"Then I was wrong," said Mr. Britling, "and the world is altogether mad. And so there is nothing
else for us to do but win.... Why could they not leave Belgium alone?"

"It's been in all their plans for the last twenty years," said Manning.

"But it brings us in for certain."

"I believe they have reckoned on that."

"Well!" Mr. Britling took his tea and sat down, and for a time he said nothing.

"It is three against three," said one of the visitors, trying to count the Powers engaged.

"Italy," said Manning, "will almost certainly refuse to fight. In fact Italy is friendly to
us. She is bound to be. This is, to begin with, an Austrian war. And Japan will fight for us...."

"I think," said old Lady Meade, "that this is the suicide of Germany. They cannot possibly
fight against Russia and France and ourselves. Why have they ever begun it?"

"It may be a longer and more difficult war than people suppose," said Manning. "The Germans
reckon they are going to win."

"Against us all?"

"Against us all. They are tremendously prepared."

"It is impossible that Germany should win," said Mr. Britling, breaking his silence. "Against
her Germany has something more than armies; all reason, all instinct--the three greatest peoples
in the world."

"At present very badly supplied with war material."

"That may delay things; it may make the task harder; but it will not alter the end. Of course
we are going to win. Nothing else is thinkable. I have never believed they meant it. But I
see now they meant it. This insolent arming and marching, this forty years of national blustering;
sooner or later it had to topple over into action...."

He paused and found they were listening, and he was carried on by his own thoughts into further
speech.

"This isn't the sort of war," he said, "that is settled by counting guns and rifles. Something
that has oppressed us all has become intolerable and has to be ended. And it will be ended.
I don't know what soldiers and politicians think of our prospects, but I do know what ordinary
reasonable men think of the business. I know that all we millions of reasonable civilised onlookers
are prepared to spend our last shillings and give all our lives now, rather than see Germany
unbeaten. I know that the same thing is felt in America, and that given half a chance, given
just one extra shake of that foolish mailed fist in the face of America, and America also will
be in this war by our side. Italy will come in. She is bound to come in. France will fight
like one man. I'm quite prepared to believe that the Germans have countless rifles and guns;
have got the most perfect maps, spies, plans you can imagine. I'm quite prepared to hear that
they have got a thousand tremendous surprises in equipment up their sleeves. I'm quite prepared
for sweeping victories for them and appalling disasters for us. Those are the first things.
What I do know is that the Germans understand nothing of the spirit of man; that they do not
dream for a moment of the devil of resentment this war will arouse. Didn't we all trust them
not to let off their guns? Wasn't that the essence of our liberal and pacific faith? And here
they are in the heart of Europe letting off their guns?"

"And such a lot of guns," said Manning.

"Then you think it will be a long war, Mr. Britling?" said Lady Meade.

"Long or short, it will end in the downfall of Germany. But I do not believe it will be long.
I do not agree with Manning. Even now I cannot believe that a whole great people can be possessed
by war madness. I think the war is the work of the German armaments party and of the Court
party. They have forced this war on Germany. Well--they must win and go on winning. So long
as they win, Germany will hold together, so long as their armies are not clearly defeated nor
their navy destroyed. But once check them and stay them and beat them, then I believe that
suddenly the spirit of Germany will change even as it changed after Jena...."

"Willie Nixon," said one of the visitors, "who came back from Hamburg yesterday, says they
are convinced they will have taken Paris and St. Petersburg and one or two other little places
and practically settled everything for us by about Christmas."

"And London?"

"I forgot if he said London. But I suppose a London more or less hardly matters. They don't
think we shall dare come in, but if we do they will Zeppelin the fleet and walk through our
army--if you can call it an army."

Manning nodded confirmation.

"They do not understand," said Mr. Britling.

"Sir George Padish told me the same sort of thing," said Lady Homartyn. "He was in Berlin in June."

"Of course the efficiency of their preparations is almost incredible," said another of Lady
Meade's party.

"They have thought out and got ready for everything--literally everything."

Section 13

Mr. Britling had been a little surprised by the speech he had made. He hadn't realised before
he began to talk how angry and scornful he was at this final coming into action of the Teutonic
militarism that had so long menaced his world. He had always said it would never really fight--and
here it was fighting! He was furious with the indignation of an apologist betrayed. He had
only realised the strength and passion of his own belligerent opinions as he had heard them,
and as he walked back with his wife through the village to the Dower House, he was still in
the swirl of this self-discovery; he was darkly silent, devising fiercely denunciatory phrases
against Krupp and Kaiser. "Krupp and Kaiser," he grasped that obvious, convenient alliteration.
"It is all that is bad in mediævalism allied to all that is bad in modernity," he told himself.

"The world," he said, startling Mrs. Britling with his sudden speech, "will be intolerable
to live in, it will be unendurable for a decent human being, unless we win this war.

"We must smash or be smashed...."

His brain was so busy with such stuff that for a time he stared at Mrs. Harrowdean's belated
telegram without grasping the meaning of a word of it. He realised slowly that it was incumbent
upon him to go over to her, but he postponed his departure very readily in order to play hockey.
Besides which it would be a full moon, and he felt that summer moonlight was far better than
sunset and dinner time for the declarations he was expected to make. And then he went on phrase-making
again about Germany until he had actually bullied off at hockey.

Suddenly in the midst of the game he had an amazing thought. It came to him like a physical twinge.

"What the devil are we doing at this hockey?" he asked abruptly of Teddy, who was coming up
to bully after a goal. "We ought to be drilling or shooting against those infernal Germans."

Teddy looked at him questioningly.

"Oh, come on!" said Mr. Britling with a gust of impatience, and snapped the sticks together.

Section 14

Mr. Britling started for his moonlight ride about half-past nine that night. He announced that
he could neither rest nor work, the war had thrown him into a fever; the driving of the automobile
was just the distraction he needed; he might not, he added casually, return for a day or so.
When he felt he could work again he would come back. He filled up his petrol tank by the light
of an electric torch, and sat in his car in the garage and studied his map of the district.
His thoughts wandered from the road to Pyecrafts to the coast, and to the possible route of
a raider. Suppose the enemy anticipated a declaration of war! Here he might come, and here....

He roused himself from these speculations to the business in hand.

The evening seemed as light as day, a cool moonshine filled the world. The road was silver
that flushed to pink at the approach of Mr. Britling's headlight, the dark turf at the wayside
and the bushes on the bank became for a moment an acid green as the glare passed. The full
moon was climbing up the sky, and so bright that scarcely a star was visible in the blue grey
of the heavens. Houses gleamed white a mile away, and ever and again a moth would flutter and
hang in the light of the lamps, and then vanish again in the night.

Gladys was in excellent condition for a run, and so was Mr. Britling. He went neither fast
nor slow, and with a quite unfamiliar confidence. Life, which had seemed all day a congested
confusion darkened by threats, became cool, mysterious and aloof and with a quality of dignified
reassurance.

He steered along the narrow road by the black dog-rose hedge, and so into the high road towards
the village. The village was alight at several windows but almost deserted. Out beyond, a coruscation
of lights burnt like a group of topaz and rubies set in the silver shield of the night. The
festivities of the Flower Show were still in full progress, and the reduction of the entrance
fee after seven had drawn in every lingering outsider. The roundabouts churned out their relentless
music, and the bottle-shooting galleries popped and crashed. The well-patronised ostriches
and motorcars flickered round in a pulsing rhythm; black, black, black, before the naphtha flares.

Mr. Britling pulled up at the side of the road, and sat for a little while watching the silhouettes
move hither and thither from shadow to shadow across the bright spaces.

"On the very brink of war--on the brink of Armageddon," he whispered at last. "Do they understand?
Do any of us understand?"

He slipped in his gear to starting, and was presently running quietly with his engine purring
almost inaudibly along the level road to Hartleytree. The sounds behind him grew smaller and
smaller, and died away leaving an immense unruffled quiet under the moon. There seemed no motion
but his own, no sound but the neat, subdued, mechanical rhythm in front of his feet. Presently
he ran out into the main road, and heedless of the lane that turned away towards Pyecrafts,
drove on smoothly towards the east and the sea. Never before had he driven by night. He had
expected a fumbling and tedious journey; he found he had come into an undreamt-of silvery splendour
of motion. For it seemed as though even the automobile was running on moonlight that night....
Pyecrafts could wait. Indeed the later he got to Pyecrafts the more moving and romantic the
little comedy of reconciliation would be. And he was in no hurry for that comedy. He felt he
wanted to apprehend this vast summer calm about him, that alone of all the things of the day
seemed to convey anything whatever of the majestic tragedy that was happening to mankind. As
one slipped through this still vigil one could imagine for the first time the millions away
there marching, the wide river valleys, villages, cities, mountain-ranges, ports and seas inaudibly
busy.

"Even now," he said, "the battleships may be fighting."

He listened, but the sound was only the low intermittent drumming of his cylinders as he ran
with his throttle nearly closed, down a stretch of gentle hill.

He felt that he must see the sea. He would follow the road beyond the Rodwell villages, and
then turn up to the crest of Eastonbury Hill. And thither he went and saw in the gap of the
low hills beyond a V-shaped level of moonlit water that glittered and yet lay still. He stopped
his car by the roadside, and sat for a long time looking at this and musing. And once it seemed
to him three little shapes like short black needles passed in line ahead across the molten silver.

But that may have been just the straining of the eyes....

All sorts of talk had come to Mr. Britling's ears about the navies of England and France and
Germany; there had been public disputes of experts, much whispering and discussion in private.
We had the heavier vessels, the bigger guns, but it was not certain that we had the preeminence
in science and invention. Were they relying as we were relying on Dreadnoughts, or had they
their secrets and surprises for us? To-night, perhaps, the great ships were steaming to conflict....

To-night all over the world ships must be in flight and ships pursuing; ten thousand towns
must be ringing with the immediate excitement of war....

Only a year ago Mr. Britling had been lunching on a battleship and looking over its intricate
machinery. It had seemed to him then that there could be no better human stuff in the world
than the quiet, sunburnt, disciplined men and officers he had met.... And our little army,
too, must be gathering to-night, the little army that had been chastened and reborn in South
Africa, that he was convinced was individually more gallant and self-reliant and capable than
any other army in the world. He would have sneered or protested if he had heard another Englishman
say that, but in his heart he held the dear belief....

And what other aviators in the world could fly as the Frenchmen and Englishmen he had met once
or twice at Eastchurch and Salisbury could fly? These are things of race and national quality.
Let the German cling to his gasbags. "We shall beat them in the air," he whispered. "We shall
beat them on the seas. Surely we shall beat them on the seas. If we have men enough and guns
enough we shall beat them on land.... Yet--For years they have been preparing...."

There was little room in the heart of Mr. Britling that night for any love but the love of
England. He loved England now as a nation of men. There could be no easy victory. Good for
us with our too easy natures that there could be no easy victory. But victory we must have
now--or perish....

He roused himself with a sigh, restarted his engine, and went on to find some turning place.
He still had a colourless impression that the journey's end was Pyecrafts.

"We must all do the thing we can," he thought, and for a time the course of his automobile
along a winding down-hill road held his attention so that he could not get beyond it. He turned
about and ran up over the hill again and down long slopes inland, running very softly and smoothly
with his lights devouring the road ahead and sweeping the banks and hedges beside him, and
as he came down a little hill through a village he heard a confused clatter and jingle of traffic
ahead, and saw the danger triangle that warns of cross-roads. He slowed down and then pulled
up abruptly.

Riding across the gap between the cottages was a string of horsemen, and then a grey cart,
and then a team drawing a heavy object--a gun, and then more horsemen, and then a second gun.
It was all a dim brown procession in the moonlight. A mounted officer came up beside him and
looked at him and then went back to the cross-roads, but as yet England was not troubling about
spies. Four more guns passed, and then a string of carts and more mounted men, sitting stiffly.
Nobody was singing or shouting; scarcely a word was audible, and through all the column there
was an effect of quiet efficient haste. And so they passed, and rumbled and jingled and clattered
out of the scene, leaving Mr. Britling in his car in the dreaming village. He restarted his
engine once more, and went his way thoughtfully.

He went so thoughtfully that presently he missed the road to Pyecrafts--if ever he had been
on the road to Pyecrafts at all--altogether. He found himself upon a highway running across
a flattish plain, and presently discovered by the sight of the Great Bear, faint but traceable
in the blue overhead, that he was going due north. Well, presently he would turn south and
west; that in good time; now he wanted to feel; he wanted to think. How could he best help
England in the vast struggle for which the empty silence and beauty of this night seemed to
be waiting? But indeed he was not thinking at all, but feeling, feeling wonder, as he had never
felt it since his youth had passed from him. This war might end nearly everything in the world
as he had known the world; that idea struggled slowly through the moonlight into consciousness,
and won its way to dominance in his mind.

The character of the road changed; the hedges fell away, the pine trees and pine woods took
the place of the black squat shapes of the hawthorn and oak and apple. The houses grew rarer
and the world emptier and emptier, until he could have believed that he was the only man awake
and out-of-doors in all the slumbering land....

For a time a little thing caught hold of his dreaming mind. Continually as he ran on, black,
silent birds rose startled out of the dust of the road before him, and fluttered noiselessly
beyond his double wedge of light. What sort of bird could they be? Were they night-jars? Were
they different kinds of birds snatching at the quiet of the night for a dust bath in the sand?
This little independent thread of inquiry ran through the texture of his mind and died away....

And at one place there was a great bolting of rabbits across the road, almost under his wheels....

The phrases he had used that afternoon at Claverings came back presently into his head. They
were, he felt assured, the phrases that had to be said now. This war could be seen as the noblest
of wars, as the crowning struggle of mankind against national dominance and national aggression;
or else it was a mere struggle of nationalities and pure destruction and catastrophe. Its enormous
significances, he felt, must not be lost in any petty bickering about the minor issues of the
conflict. But were these enormous significances being stated clearly enough? Were they being
understood by the mass of liberal and pacific thinkers? He drove more and more slowly as these
questions crowded upon his attention until at last he came to a stop altogether.... "Certain
things must be said clearly," he whispered. "Certain things--The meaning of England.... The
deep and long-unspoken desire for kindliness and fairness.... Now is the time for speaking.
It must be put as straight now as her gun-fire, as honestly as the steering of her ships."

Phrases and paragraphs began to shape themselves in his mind as he sat with one arm on his
steering-wheel.

Suddenly he roused himself, turned over the map in the map-case beside him, and tried to find
his position....

So far as he could judge he had strayed right into Suffolk....

About one o'clock in the morning he found himself in Newmarket. Newmarket too was a moonlit
emptiness, but as he hesitated at the cross-roads he became aware of a policeman standing quite
stiff and still at the corner by the church.

"Matching's Easy?" he cried.

"That road, Sir, until you come to Market Saffron, and then to the left...."

Mr. Britling had a definite purpose now in his mind, and he drove faster, but still very carefully
and surely. He was already within a mile or so of Market Saffron before he remembered that
he had made a kind of appointment with himself at Pyecrafts. He stared at two conflicting purposes.
He turned over certain possibilities.

At the Market Saffron cross-roads he slowed down, and for a moment he hung undecided.

"Oliver," he said, and as he spoke he threw over his steering-wheel towards the homeward way....
He finished his sentence when he had negotiated the corner safely. "Oliver must have her...."

And then, perhaps fifty yards farther along, and this time almost indignantly: "She ought to
have married him long ago...."

He put his automobile in the garage, and then went round under the black shadow of his cedars
to the front door. He had no key, and for a long time he failed to rouse his wife by flinging
pebbles and gravel at her half-open window. But at last he heard her stirring and called out
to her.

He explained he had returned because he wanted to write. He wanted indeed to write quite urgently.
He went straight up to his room, lit his reading-lamp, made himself some tea, and changed into
his nocturnal suit. Daylight found him still writing very earnestly at his pamphlet. The title
he had chosen was: "And Now War Ends."

Section 15

In this fashion it was that the great war began in Europe and came to one man in Matching's
Easy, as it came to countless intelligent men in countless pleasant homes that had scarcely
heeded its coming through all the years of its relentless preparation. The familiar scenery
of life was drawn aside, and War stood unveiled. "I am the Fact," said War, "and I stand astride
the path of life. I am the threat of death and extinction that has always walked beside life,
since life began. There can be nothing else and nothing more in human life until you have reckoned
with me."

BOOK II

MATCHING'S EASY AT WAR

CHAPTER THE FIRST

ONLOOKERS

Section 1

On that eventful night of the first shots and the first deaths Mr. Britling did not sleep until
daylight had come. He sat writing at this pamphlet of his, which was to hail the last explosion
and the ending of war. For a couple of hours he wrote with energy, and then his energy flagged.
There came intervals when he sat still and did not write. He yawned and yawned again and rubbed
his eyes. The day had come and the birds were noisy when he undressed slowly, dropping his
clothes anyhow upon the floor, and got into bed....

He woke to find his morning tea beside him and the housemaid going out of the room. He knew
that something stupendous had happened to the world, but for a few moments he could not remember
what it was. Then he remembered that France was invaded by Germany and Germany by Russia, and
that almost certainly England was going to war. It seemed a harsh and terrible fact in the
morning light, a demand for stresses, a certainty of destruction; it appeared now robbed of
all the dark and dignified beauty of the night. He remembered just the same feeling of unpleasant,
anxious expectation as he now felt when the Boer War had begun fifteen years ago, before the
first news came. The first news of the Boer War had been the wrecking of a British armoured
train near Kimberley. What similar story might not the overdue paper tell when presently it came?

Suppose, for instance, that some important division of our Fleet had been surprised and overwhelmed....

Suppose the Germans were already crumpling up the French armies between Verdun and Belfort,
very swiftly and dreadfully....

Suppose after all that the Cabinet was hesitating, and that there would be no war for some
weeks, but only a wrangle about Belgian neutrality. While the Germans smashed France....

Or, on the other hand, there might be some amazing, prompt success on our part. Our army and
navy people were narrow, but in their narrow way he believed they were extraordinarily good....

What would the Irish do?...

His thoughts were no more than a thorny jungle of unanswerable questions through which he struggled
in un-progressive circles.

He got out of bed and dressed in a slow, distraught manner. When he reached his braces he discontinued
dressing for a time; he opened the atlas at Northern France, and stood musing over the Belgian
border. Then he turned to Whitaker's Almanack to browse upon the statistics of the great European
armies. He was roused from this by the breakfast gong.

At breakfast there was no talk of anything but war. Hugh was as excited as a cat in thundery
weather, and the small boys wanted information about flags. The Russian and the Serbian flag
were in dispute, and the flag page of Webster's Dictionary had to be consulted. Newspapers
and letters were both abnormally late, and Mr. Britling, tiring of supplying trivial information
to his offspring, smoked cigarettes in the garden. He had an idea of intercepting the postman.
His eyes and ears informed him of the approach of Mrs. Faber's automobile. It was an old, resolute-looking
machine painted red, and driven by a trusted gardener; there was no mistaking it.

Mrs. Faber was in it, and she stopped it outside the gate and made signals. Mrs. Britling,
attracted by the catastrophic sounds of Mrs. Faber's vehicle, came out by the front door, and
she and her husband both converged upon the caller.

Section 2

"I won't come in," cried Mrs. Faber, "but I thought I'd tell you. I've been getting food."

"Food?"

"Provisions. There's going to be a run on provisions. Look at my flitch of bacon!"

"But--"

"Faber says we have to lay in what we can. This war--it's going to stop everything. We can't
tell what will happen. I've got the children to consider, so here I am. I was at Hickson's
before nine...."

The little lady was very flushed and bright-eyed. Her fair hair was disordered, her hat a trifle
askew. She had an air of enjoying unwonted excitements. "All the gold's being hoarded too,"
she said, with a crow of delight in her voice. "Faber says that probably our cheques won't
be worth that in a few days. He rushed off to London to get gold at his clubs--while he can.
I had to insist on Hickson taking a cheque. 'Never,' I said, 'will I deal with you again--never--unless
you do....' Even then he looked at me almost as if he thought he wouldn't.

"It's Famine!" she said, turning to Mr. Britling. "I've laid hands on all I can. I've got the
children to consider."

"But why is it famine?" asked Mr. Britling.

"Oh! it is!" she said.

"But why?"

"Faber understands," she said. "Of course it's Famine...."

"And would you believe me," she went on, going back to Mrs. Britling, "that man Hickson stood
behind his counter--where I've dealt with him for years, and refused absolutely to let me have
more than a dozen tins of sardines. Refused! Point blank!

"I was there before nine, and even then Hickson's shop was crowded--crowded, my dear!"

"What have you got?" said Mr. Britling with an inquiring movement towards the automobile.

She had got quite a lot. She had two sides of bacon, a case of sugar, bags of rice, eggs, a
lot of flour.

"What are all these little packets?" said Mr. Britling.

Mrs. Faber looked slightly abashed.

"Cerebos salt," she said. "One gets carried away a little. I just got hold of it and carried
it out to the car. I thought we might have to salt things later."

"And the jars are pickles?" said Mr. Britling.

"Yes. But look at all my flour! That's what will go first...."

The lady was a little flurried by Mr. Britling's too detailed examination of her haul. "What
good is blacking?" he asked. She would not hear him. She felt he was trying to spoil her morning.
She declared she must get on back to her home. "Don't say I didn't warn you," she said. "I've
got no end of things to do. There's peas! I want to show cook how to bottle our peas. For this
year--it's lucky, we've got no end of peas. I came by here just for the sake of telling you."
And with that she presently departed--obviously ruffled by Mrs. Britling's lethargy and Mr.
Britling's scepticism.

Mr. Britling watched her go off with a slowly rising indignation.

"And that," he said, "is how England is going to war! Scrambling for food--at the very beginning."

"I suppose she is anxious for the children," said Mrs. Britling.

"Blacking!"

"After all," said Mr. Britling, "if other people are doing that sort of thing--"

"That's the idea of all panics. We've got not to do it.... The country hasn't even declared
war yet! Hallo, here we are! Better late than never."

The head of the postman, bearing newspapers and letters, appeared gliding along the top of
the hedge as he cycled down the road towards the Dower House corner.

Section 3

England was not yet at war, but all the stars were marching to that end. It was as if an event
so vast must needs take its time to happen. No doubt was left upon Mr. Britling's mind, though
a whole-page advertisement in the Daily News, in enormous type and of mysterious origin, implored
Great Britain not to play into the hands of Russia, Russia the Terrible, that bugbear of the
sentimental Radicals. The news was wide and sweeping, and rather inaccurate. The Germans were
said to be in Belgium and Holland, and they had seized English ships in the Kiel Canal. A moratorium
had been proclaimed, and the reports of a food panic showed Mrs. Faber to be merely one example
of a large class of excitable people.

Mr. Britling found the food panic disconcerting. It did not harmonise with his leading motif
of the free people of the world rising against the intolerable burthen of militarism. It spoilt
his picture....

Mrs. Britling shared the paper with Mr. Britling, they stood by the bed of begonias near the
cedar tree and read, and the air was full of the cheerful activities of the lawn-mower that
was being drawn by a carefully booted horse across the hockey field.

Presently Hugh came flitting out of the house to hear what had happened. "One can't work somehow,
with all these big things going on," he apologised. He secured the Daily News while his father
and mother read The Times. The voices of the younger boys came from the shade of the trees;
they had brought all their toy soldiers out of doors, and were making entrenched camps in the
garden.

"The financial situation is an extraordinary one," said Mr. Britling, concentrating his attention....
"All sorts of staggering things may happen. In a social and economic system that has grown
just anyhow.... Never been planned.... In a world full of Mrs. Fabers...."

"Moratorium?" said Hugh over his Daily News. "In relation to debts and so on? Modern side you
sent me to, Daddy. I live at hand to mouth in etymology. Mors and crematorium--do we burn our
bills instead of paying them?"

"Moratorium," reflected Mr. Britling; "Moratorium. What nonsense you talk! It's something that
delays, of course. Nothing to do with death. Just a temporary stoppage of payments.... Of course
there's bound to be a tremendous change in values...."

Section 4

"There's bound to be a tremendous change in values."

On that text Mr. Britling's mind enlarged very rapidly. It produced a wonderful crop of possibilities
before he got back to his study. He sat down to his desk, but he did not immediately take up
his work. He had discovered something so revolutionary in his personal affairs that even the
war issue remained for a time in suspense.

Tucked away in the back of Mr. Britling's consciousness was something that had not always been
there, something warm and comforting that made life and his general thoughts about life much
easier and pleasanter than they would otherwise have been, the sense of a neatly arranged investment
list, a shrewdly and geographically distributed system of holdings in national loans, municipal
investments, railway debentures, that had amounted altogether to rather over five-and-twenty
thousand pounds; his and Mrs. Britling's, a joint accumulation. This was, so to speak, his
economic viscera. It sustained him, and kept him going and comfortable. When all was well he
did not feel its existence; he had merely a pleasant sense of general well-being. When here
or there a security got a little disarranged he felt a vague discomfort. Now he became aware
of grave disorders. It was as if he discovered he had been accidentally eating toadstools,
and didn't quite know whether they weren't a highly poisonous sort. But an analogy may be carried
too far....

At any rate, when Mr. Britling got back to his writing-desk he was much too disturbed to resume
"And Now War Ends."

"There's bound to be a tremendous change in values!"

He had never felt quite so sure as most people about the stability of the modern financial
system. He did not, he felt, understand the working of this moratorium, or the peculiar advantage
of prolonging the bank holidays. It meant, he supposed, a stoppage of payment all round, and
a cutting off of the supply of ready money. And Hickson the grocer, according to Mrs. Faber,
was already looking askance at cheques.

Even if the bank did reopen Mr. Britling was aware that his current balance was low; at the
utmost it amounted to twenty or thirty pounds. He had been expecting cheques from his English
and American publishers, and the usual Times cheque. Suppose these payments were intercepted!

All these people might, so far as he could understand, stop payment under this moratorium!
That hadn't at first occurred to him. But, of course, quite probably they might refuse to pay
his account when it fell due.

And suppose The Times felt his peculiar vein of thoughtfulness unnecessary in these stirring days!

And then if the bank really did lock up his deposit account, and his securities became unsaleable!

Mr. Britling felt like an oyster that is invited to leave its shell....

He sat back from his desk contemplating these things. His imagination made a weak attempt to
picture a world in which credit has vanished and money is of doubtful value. He supposed a
large number of people would just go on buying and selling at or near the old prices by force
of habit.

His mind and conscience made a valiant attempt to pick up "And Now War Ends" and go on with
it, but before five minutes were out he was back at the thoughts of food panic and bankruptcy....

Section 5

The conflict of interests at Mr. Britling's desk became unendurable. He felt he must settle
the personal question first. He wandered out upon the lawn and smoked cigarettes.

His first conception of a great convergent movement of the nations to make a world peace and
an end to militant Germany was being obscured by this second, entirely incompatible, vision
of a world confused and disorganised. Mrs. Fabers in great multitudes hoarding provisions,
riotous crowds attacking shops, moratorium, shut banks and waiting queues. Was it possible
for the whole system to break down through a shock to its confidence? Without any sense of
incongruity the dignified pacification of the planet had given place in his mind to these more
intimate possibilities. He heard a rustle behind him, and turned to face his wife.

"Do you think," she asked, "that there is any chance of a shortage of food?"

"If all the Mrs. Fabers in the world run and grab--"

"Then every one must grab. I haven't much in the way of stores in the house."

"H'm," said Mr. Britling, and reflected.... "I don't think we must buy stores now."

"But if we are short."

"It's the chances of war," said Mr. Britling.

He reflected. "Those who join a panic make a panic. After all, there is just as much food in
the world as there was last month. And short of burning it the only way of getting rid of it
is to eat it. And the harvests are good. Why begin a scramble at a groaning board?"

"But people are scrambling! It would be awkward--with the children and everything--if we ran
short."

"We shan't. And anyhow, you mustn't begin hoarding, even if it means hardship."

"Yes. But you won't like it if suddenly there's no sugar for your tea."

Mr. Britling ignored this personal application.

"What is far more serious than a food shortage is the possibility of a money panic."

He paced the lawn with her and talked. He said that even now very few people realised the flimsiness
of the credit system by which the modern world was sustained. It was a huge growth of confidence,
due very largely to the uninquiring indolence of--everybody. It was sound so long as mankind
did, on the whole, believe in it; give only a sufficient loss of faith and it might suffer
any sort of collapse. It might vanish altogether--as the credit system vanished at the breaking
up of Italy by the Goths--and leave us nothing but tangible things, real property, possession
nine points of the law, and that sort of thing. Did she remember that last novel of Gissing's?--"Veranilda,"
it was called. It was a picture of the world when there was no wealth at all except what one
could carry hidden or guarded about with one. That sort of thing came to the Roman Empire slowly,
in the course of lifetimes, but nowadays we lived in a rapider world--with flimsier institutions.
Nobody knew the strength or the weakness of credit; nobody knew whether even the present shock
might not send it smashing down.... And then all the little life we had lived so far would
roll away....

Mrs. Britling, he noted, glanced ever and again at her sunlit house--there were new sunblinds,
and she had been happy in her choice of a colour--and listened with a sceptical expression
to this disquisition.

"A few days ago," said Mr. Britling, trying to make things concrete for her, "you and I together
were worth five-and-twenty thousand pounds. Now we don't know what we are worth; whether we
have lost a thousand or ten thousand...."

He examined his sovereign purse and announced he had six pounds. "What have you?"

She had about eighteen pounds in the house.

"We may have to get along with that for an indefinite time."

"But the bank will open again presently," she said. "And people about here trust us."

"Suppose they don't?"

She did not trouble about the hypothesis. "And our investments will recover. They always do
recover."

"Everything may recover," he admitted. "But also nothing may recover. All this life of ours
which has seemed so settled and secure--isn't secure. I have felt that we were fixed here and
rooted--for all our lives. Suppose presently things sweep us out of it? It's a possibility
we may have to face. I feel this morning as if two enormous gates had opened in our lives,
like the gates that give upon an arena, gates giving on a darkness--through which anything
might come. Even death. Suppose suddenly we were to see one of those great Zeppelins in the
air, or hear the thunder of guns away towards the coast. And if a messenger came upon a bicycle
telling us to leave everything and go inland...."

"I see no reason why one should go out to meet things like that."

"But there is no reason why one should not envisage them...."

"The curious thing," said Mr. Britling, pursuing his examination of the matter, "is that, looking
at these things as one does now, as things quite possible, they are not nearly so terrifying
and devastating to the mind as they would have seemed--last week. I believe I should load you
all into Gladys and start off westward with a kind of exhilaration...."

She looked at him as if she would speak, and said nothing. She suspected him of hating his
home and affecting to care for it out of politeness to her....

"Perhaps mankind tries too much to settle down. Perhaps these stirrings up have to occur to
save us from our disposition to stuffy comfort. There's the magic call of the unknown experience,
of dangers and hardships. One wants to go. But unless some push comes one does not go. There
is a spell that keeps one to the lair and the old familiar ways. Now I am afraid--and at the
same time I feel that the spell is broken. The magic prison is suddenly all doors. You may
call this ruin, bankruptcy, invasion, flight; they are doors out of habit and routine.... I
have been doing nothing for so long, except idle things and discursive things."

"I thought that you managed to be happy here. You have done a lot of work."

"Writing is recording, not living. But now I feel suddenly that we are living intensely. It
is as if the whole quality of life was changing. There are such times. There are times when
the spirit of life changes altogether. The old world knew that better than we do. It made a
distinction between weekdays and Sabbaths, and between feasts and fasts and days of devotion.
That is just what has happened now. Week-day rules must be put aside. Before--oh! three days
ago, competition was fair, it was fair and tolerable to get the best food one could and hold
on to one's own. But that isn't right now. War makes a Sabbath, and we shut the shops. The
banks are shut, and the world still feels as though Sunday was keeping on...."

He saw his own way clear.

"The scale has altered. It does not matter now in the least if we are ruined. It does not matter
in the least if we have to live upon potatoes and run into debt for our rent. These now are
the most incidental of things. A week ago they would have been of the first importance. Here
we are face to face with the greatest catastrophe and the greatest opportunity in history.
We have to plunge through catastrophe to opportunity. There is nothing to be done now in the
whole world except to get the best out of this tremendous fusing up of all the settled things
of life." He had got what he wanted. He left her standing upon the lawn and hurried back to
his desk....

Section 6

When Mr. Britling, after a strenuous morning among high ideals, descended for lunch, he found
Mr. Lawrence Carmine had come over to join him at that meal. Mr. Carmine was standing in the
hall with his legs very wide apart reading The Times for the fourth time. "I can do no work,"
he said, turning round. "I can't fix my mind. I suppose we are going to war. I'd got so used
to the war with Germany that I never imagined it would happen. Gods! what a bore it will be....
And Maxse and all those scaremongers cock-a-hoop and 'I told you so.' Damn these Germans!"

He looked despondent and worried. He followed Mr. Britling towards the dining-room with his
hands deep in his pockets.

"It's going to be a tremendous thing," he said, after he had greeted Mrs. Britling and Hugh
and Aunt Wilshire and Teddy, and seated himself at Mr. Britling's hospitable board. "It's going
to upset everything. We don't begin to imagine all the mischief it is going to do."

Mr. Britling was full of the heady draught of liberal optimism he had been brewing upstairs.
"I am not sorry I have lived to see this war," he said. "It may be a tremendous catastrophe
in one sense, but in another it is a huge step forward in human life. It is the end of forty
years of evil suspense. It is crisis and solution."

"I wish I could see it like that," said Mr. Carmine.

"It is like a thaw--everything has been in a frozen confusion since that Jew-German Treaty
of Berlin. And since 1871."

"Why not since Schleswig-Holstein?" said Mr. Carmine.

"Why not? Or since the Treaty of Vienna?"

"Or since--One might go back."

"To the Roman Empire," said Hugh.

"To the first conquest of all," said Teddy....

"I couldn't work this morning," said Hugh. "I have been reading in the Encyclopædia about races
and religions in the Balkans.... It's very mixed."

"So long as it could only be dealt with piecemeal," said Mr. Britling. "And that is just where
the tremendous opportunity of this war comes in. Now everything becomes fluid. We can redraw
the map of the world. A week ago we were all quarrelling bitterly about things too little for
human impatience. Now suddenly we face an epoch. This is an epoch. The world is plastic for
men to do what they will with it. This is the end and the beginning of an age. This is something
far greater than the French Revolution or the Reformation.... And we live in it...."

He paused impressively.

"I wonder what will happen to Albania?" said Hugh, but his comment was disregarded.

"War makes men bitter and narrow," said Mr. Carmine.

"War narrowly conceived," said Mr. Britling. "But this is an indignant and generous war."

They speculated about the possible intervention of the United States. Mr. Britling thought
that the attack on Belgium demanded the intervention of every civilised power, that all the
best instincts of America would be for intervention. "The more," he said, "the quicker."

"It would be strange if the last power left out to mediate were to be China," said Mr. Carmine.
"The one people in the world who really believe in peace.... I wish I had your confidence,
Britling."

For a time they contemplated a sort of Grand Inquest on Germany and militarism, presided over
by the Wisdom of the East. Militarism was, as it were, to be buried as a suicide at four cross-roads,
with a stake through its body to prevent any untimely resuscitation.

Section 7

Mr. Britling was in a phase of imaginative release. Such a release was one of the first effects
of the war upon many educated minds. Things that had seemed solid forever were visibly in flux;
things that had seemed stone were alive. Every boundary, every government, was seen for the
provisional thing it was. He talked of his World Congress meeting year by year, until it ceased
to be a speculation and became a mere intelligent anticipation; he talked of the "manifest
necessity" of a Supreme Court for the world. He beheld that vision at the Hague, but Mr. Carmine
preferred Delhi or Samarkand or Alexandria or Nankin. "Let us get away from the delusion of
Europe anyhow," said Mr. Carmine....

As Mr. Britling had sat at his desk that morning and surveyed the stupendous vistas of possibility
that war was opening, the catastrophe had taken on a more and more beneficial quality. "I suppose
that it is only through such crises as these that the world can reconstruct itself," I said.
And, on the whole that afternoon he was disposed to hope that the great military machine would
not smash itself too easily. "We want the nations to feel the need of one another," he said.
"Too brief a campaign might lead to a squabble for plunder. The Englishman has to learn his
dependence on the Irishman, the Russian has to be taught the value of education and the friendship
of the Pole.... Europe will now have to look to Asia, and recognise that Indians and Chinamem
are also 'white.'... But these lessons require time and stresses if they are to be learnt properly...."

They discussed the possible duration of the war.

Mr. Carmine thought it would be a long struggle; Mr. Britling thought that the Russians would
be in Berlin by the next May. He was afraid they might get there before the end of the year.
He thought that the Germans would beat out their strength upon the French and Belgian lines,
and never be free to turn upon the Russian at all. He was sure they had underrated the strength
and energy of the French and of ourselves. "The Russians meanwhile," he said, "will come on,
slowly, steadily, inevitably...."

Section 8

That day of vast anticipations drew out into the afternoon. It was a day--obsessed. It was
the precursor of a relentless series of doomed and fettered days. There was a sense of enormous
occurrences going on just out of sound and sight--behind the mask of Essex peacefulness. From
this there was no escape. It made all other interests fitful. Games of Badminton were begun
and abruptly truncated by the arrival of the evening papers; conversations started upon any
topic whatever returned to the war by the third and fourth remark....

After lunch Mr. Britling and Mr. Carmine went on talking. Nothing else was possible. They repeated
things they had already said. They went into things more thoroughly. They sat still for a time,
and then suddenly broke out with some new consideration....

It had been their custom to play skat with Herr Heinrich, who had shown them the game very
explicitly and thoroughly. But there was no longer any Herr Heinrich--and somehow German games
were already out of fashion. The two philosophers admitted that they had already considered
skat to be complicated without subtlety, and that its chief delight for them had been the pink
earnestness of Herr Heinrich, his inability to grasp their complete but tacit comprehension
of its innocent strategy, and his invariable ill-success to bring off the coups that flashed
before his imagination.

He would survey the destructive counter-stroke with unconcealed surprise. He would verify his
first impression by craning towards it and adjusting his glasses on his nose. He had a characteristic
way of doing this with one stiff finger on either side of his sturdy nose.

"It is very fortunate for you that you have played that card," he would say, growing pinker
and pinker with hasty cerebration. "Or else--yes"--a glance at his own cards--"it would have
been altogether bad for you. I had taken only a very small risk.... Now I must--"

He would reconsider his hand.

"Zo!" he would say, dashing down a card....

Well, he had gone and skat had gone. A countless multitude of such links were snapping that
day between hundreds of thousands of English and German homes.

Section 9

The imminence of war produced a peculiar exaltation in Aunt Wilshire. She developed a point
of view that was entirely her own.

It was Mr. Britling's habit, a habit he had set himself to acquire after much irritating experience,
to disregard Aunt Wilshire. She was not, strictly speaking, his aunt; she was one of those
distant cousins we find already woven into our lives when we attain to years of responsibility.
She had been a presence in his father's household when Mr. Britling was a boy. Then she had
been called "Jane," or "Cousin Jane," or "Your cousin Wilshire." It had been a kindly freak
of Mr. Britling's to promote her to Aunty rank.

She eked out a small inheritance by staying with relatives. Mr. Britling's earlier memories
presented her as a slender young woman of thirty, with a nose upon which small boys were forbidden
to comment. Yet she commented upon it herself, and called his attention to its marked resemblance
to that of the great Duke of Wellington. "He was, I am told," said Cousin Wilshire to the attentive
youth, "a great friend of your great-grandmother's. At any rate, they were contemporaries.
Since then this nose has been in the family. He would have been the last to draw a veil over
it, but other times, other manners. 'Publish,' he said, 'and be damned.'"

She had a knack of exasperating Mr. Britling's father, a knack which to a less marked degree
she also possessed in relation to the son. But Mr. Britling senior never acquired the art of
disregarding her. Her method--if one may call the natural expression of a personality a method--was
an invincibly superior knowledge, a firm and ill-concealed belief that all statements made
in her hearing were wrong and most of them absurd, and a manner calm, assured, restrained.
She may have been born with it; it is on record that at the age of ten she was pronounced a
singularly trying child. She may have been born with the air of thinking the doctor a muff
and knowing how to manage all this business better. Mr. Britling had known her only in her
ripeness. As a boy, he had enjoyed her confidences--about other people and the general neglect
of her advice. He grew up rather to like her--most people rather liked her--and to attach a
certain importance to her unattainable approval. She was sometimes kind, she was frequently
absurd....

With very little children she was quite wise and Jolly....

So she circulated about a number of houses which at any rate always welcomed her coming. In
the opening days of each visit she performed marvels of tact, and set a watch upon her lips.
Then the demons of controversy and dignity would get the better of her. She would begin to
correct, quietly but firmly, she would begin to disapprove of the tone and quality of her treatment.
It was quite common for her visit to terminate in speechless rage both on the side of host
and of visitor. The remarkable thing was that this speechless rage never endured. Though she
could exasperate she could never offend. Always after an interval during which she was never
mentioned, people began to wonder how Cousin Jane was getting on.... A tentative correspondence
would begin, leading slowly up to a fresh invitation.

She spent more time in Mr. Britling's house than in any other. There was a legend that she
had "drawn out" his mind, and that she had "stood up" for him against his father. She had certainly
contradicted quite a number of those unfavourable comments that fathers are wont to make about
their sons. Though certainly she contradicted everything. And Mr. Britling hated to think of
her knocking about alone in boarding-houses and hydropathic establishments with only the most
casual chances for contradiction.

Moreover, he liked to see her casting her eye over the morning paper. She did it with a manner
as though she thought the terrestrial globe a great fool, and quite beyond the reach of advice.
And as though she understood and was rather amused at the way in which the newspaper people
tried to keep back the real facts of the case from her.

And now she was scornfully entertained at the behaviour of everybody in the war crisis.

She confided various secrets of state to the elder of the younger Britlings--preferably when
his father was within earshot.

"None of these things they are saying about the war," she said, "really matter in the slightest
degree. It is all about a spoilt carpet and nothing else in the world--a madman and a spoilt
carpet. If people had paid the slightest attention to common sense none of this war would have
happened. The thing was perfectly well known. He was a delicate child, difficult to rear and
given to screaming fits. Consequently he was never crossed, allowed to do everything. Nobody
but his grandmother had the slightest influence with him. And she prevented him spoiling this
carpet as completely as he wished to do. The story is perfectly well known. It was at Windsor--at
the age of eight. After that he had but one thought: war with England....

"Everybody seemed surprised," she said suddenly at tea to Mr. Carmine. "I at least am not surprised.
I am only surprised it did not come sooner. If any one had asked me I could have told them,
three years, five years ago."

The day was one of flying rumours, Germany was said to have declared war on Italy, and to have
invaded Holland as well as Belgium.

"They'll declare war against the moon next!" said Aunt Wilshire.

"And send a lot of Zeppelins," said the smallest boy. "Herr Heinrich told us they can fly thousands
of miles."

"He will go on declaring war until there is nothing left to declare war against. That is exactly
what he has always done. Once started he cannot desist. Often he has had to be removed from
the dinner-table for fear of injury. Now, it is ultimatums."

She was much pleased by a headline in the Daily Express that streamed right across the page:
"The Mad Dog of Europe." Nothing else, she said, had come so near her feelings about the war.

"Mark my words," said Aunt Wilshire in her most impressive tones. "He is insane. It will be
proved to be so. He will end his days in an asylum--as a lunatic. I have felt it myself for
years and said so in private.... Knowing what I did.... To such friends as I could trust not
to misunderstand me.... Now at least I can speak out.

"With his moustaches turned up!" exclaimed Aunt Wilshire after an interval of accumulation....
"They say he has completely lost the use of the joint in his left arm, he carries it stiff
like a Punch and Judy--and he wants to conquer Europe.... While his grandmother lived there
was some one to keep him in order. He stood in Awe of her. He hated her, but he did not dare
defy her. Even his uncle had some influence. Now, nothing restrains him.

"A double-headed mad dog," said Aunt Wilshire. "Him and his eagles!... A man like that ought
never to have been allowed to make a war.... Not even a little war.... If he had been put under
restraint when I said so, none of these things would have happened. But, of course I am nobody....
It was not considered worth attending to."

Section 10

One remarkable aspect of the English attitude towards the war was the disposition to treat
it as a monstrous joke. It is a disposition traceable in a vast proportion of the British literature
of the time. In spite of violence, cruelty, injustice, and the vast destruction and still vaster
dangers of the struggles, that disposition held. The English mind refused flatly to see anything
magnificent or terrible in the German attack, or to regard the German Emperor or the Crown
Prince as anything more than figures of fun. From first to last their conception of the enemy
was an overstrenuous, foolish man, red with effort, with protruding eyes and a forced frightfulness
of demeanour. That he might be tremendously lethal did not in the least obscure the fact that
he was essentially ridiculous. And if as the war went on the joke grew grimmer, still it remained
a joke. The German might make a desert of the world; that could not alter the British conviction
that he was making a fool of himself.

And this disposition kept coming to the surface throughout the afternoon, now in a casual allusion,
now in some deliberate jest. The small boys had discovered the goose step, and it filled their
little souls with amazement and delight. That human beings should consent to those ridiculous
paces seemed to them almost incredibly funny. They tried it themselves, and then set out upon
a goose-step propaganda. Letty and Cissie had come up to the Dower House for tea and news,
and they were enrolled with Teddy and Hugh. The six of them, chuckling and swaying, marched,
in vast scissor strides across the lawn. "Left," cried Hugh. "Left."

"Toes out more," said Mr. Lawrence Carmine.

"Keep stiffer," said the youngest Britling.

"Watch the Zeppelins and look proud," said Hugh. "With the chest out. Zo!"

Mrs. Britling was so much amused that she went in for her camera, and took a snapshot of the
detachment. It was a very successful snapshot, and a year later Mr. Britling was to find a
print of it among his papers, and recall the sunshine and the merriment....

Section 11

That night brought the British declaration of war against Germany. To nearly every Englishman
that came as a matter of course, and it is one of the most wonderful facts in history that
the Germans were surprised by it. When Mr. Britling, as a sample Englishman, had said that
there would never be war between Germany and England, he had always meant that it was inconceivable
to him that Germany should ever attack Belgium or France. If Germany had been content to fight
a merely defensive war upon her western frontier and let Belgium alone, there would scarcely
have been such a thing as a war party in Great Britain. But the attack upon Belgium, the westward
thrust, made the whole nation flame unanimously into war. It settled a question that was in
open debate up to the very outbreak of the conflict. Up to the last the English had cherished
the idea that in Germany, just as in England, the mass of people were kindly, pacific, and
detached. That had been the English mistake. Germany was really and truly what Germany had
been professing to be for forty years, a War State. With a sigh--and a long-forgotten thrill--England
roused herself to fight. Even now she still roused herself sluggishly. It was going to be an
immense thing, but just how immense it was going to be no one in England had yet imagined.

Countless men that day whom Fate had marked for death and wounds stared open-mouthed at the
news, and smiled with the excitement of the headlines, not dreaming that any of these things
would come within three hundred miles of them. What was war to Matching's Easy--to all the
Matching's Easies great and small that make up England? The last home that was ever burnt by
an enemy within a hundred miles of Matching's Easy was burnt by the Danes rather more than
a thousand years ago.... And the last trace of those particular Danes in England were certain
horny scraps of indurated skin under the heads of the nails in the door of St. Clement Danes
in London....

Now again, England was to fight in a war which was to light fires in England and bring death
to English people on English soil. There were inconceivable ideas in August, 1914. Such things
must happen before they can be comprehended as possible.

Section 12

This story is essentially the history of the opening and of the realisation of the Great War
as it happened to one small group of people in Essex, and more particularly as it happened
to one human brain. It came at first to all these people in a spectacular manner, as a thing
happening dramatically and internationally, as a show, as something in the newspapers, something
in the character of an historical epoch rather than a personal experience; only by slow degrees
did it and its consequences invade the common texture of English life. If this story could
be represented by sketches or pictures the central figure would be Mr. Britling, now sitting
at his desk by day or by night and writing first at his tract "And Now War Ends" and then at
other things, now walking about his garden or in Claverings park or going to and fro in London,
in his club reading the ticker or in his hall reading the newspaper, with ideas and impressions
continually clustering, expanding, developing more and more abundantly in his mind, arranging
themselves, reacting upon one another, building themselves into generalisations and conclusions....

All Mr. Britling's mental existence was soon threaded on the war. His more or less weekly Times
leader became dissertations upon the German point of view; his reviews of books and Literary
Supplement articles were all oriented more and more exactly to that one supreme fact....

It was rare that he really seemed to be seeing the war; few people saw it; for most of the
world it came as an illimitable multitude of incoherent, loud, and confusing impressions. But
all the time he was at least doing his utmost to see the war, to simplify it and extract the
essence of it until it could be apprehended as something epic and explicable, as a stateable
issue....

Most typical picture of all would be Mr. Britling writing in a little circle of orange lamplight,
with the blinds of his room open for the sake of the moonlight, but the window shut to keep
out the moths that beat against it. Outside would be the moon and the high summer sky and the
old church tower dim above the black trees half a mile away, with its clock--which Mr. Britling
heard at night but never noted by day--beating its way round the slow semicircle of the nocturnal
hours. He had always hated conflict and destruction, and felt that war between civilised states
was the quintessential expression of human failure, it was a stupidity that stopped progress
and all the free variation of humanity, a thousand times he had declared it impossible, but
even now with his country fighting he was still far from realising that this was a thing that
could possibly touch him more than intellectually. He did not really believe with his eyes
and finger-tips and backbone that murder, destruction, and agony on a scale monstrous beyond
precedent was going on in the same world as that which slumbered outside the black ivy and
silver shining window-sill that framed his peaceful view.

War had not been a reality of the daily life of England for more than a thousand years. The
mental habit of the nation for fifty generations was against its emotional recognition. The
English were the spoilt children of peace. They had never been wholly at war for three hundred
years, and for over eight hundred years they had not fought for life against a foreign power.
Spain and France had threatened in turn, but never even crossed the seas. It is true that England
had had her civil dissensions and had made wars and conquests in every part of the globe and
established an immense empire, but that last, as Mr. Britling had told Mr. Direck, was "an
excursion." She had just sent out younger sons and surplus people, emigrants and expeditionary
forces. Her own soil had never seen any successful foreign invasion; her homeland, the bulk
of her households, her general life, had gone on untouched by these things. Nineteen people
out of twenty, the middle class and most of the lower class, knew no more of the empire than
they did of the Argentine Republic or the Italian Renaissance. It did not concern them. War
that calls upon every man and threatens every life in the land, war of the whole national being,
was a thing altogether outside English experience and the scope of the British imagination.
It was still incredible, it was still outside the range of Mr. Britling's thoughts all through
the tremendous onrush and check of the German attack in the west that opened the great war.
Through those two months he was, as it were, a more and more excited spectator at a show, a
show like a baseball match, a spectator with money on the event, rather than a really participating
citizen of a nation thoroughly at war....

Section 13

After the jolt of the food panic and a brief, financial scare, the vast inertia of everyday
life in England asserted itself. When the public went to the banks for the new paper money,
the banks tendered gold--apologetically. The supply of the new notes was very insufficient,
and there was plenty of gold. After the first impression that a universal catastrophe had happened
there was an effect as if nothing had happened.

Shops re-opened after the Bank Holiday, in a tentative spirit that speedily became assurance;
people went about their business again, and the war, so far as the mass of British folk were
concerned, was for some weeks a fever of the mind and intelligence rather than a physical and
personal actuality. There was a keen demand for news, and for a time there was very little
news. The press did its best to cope with this immense occasion. Led by the Daily Express,
all the halfpenny newspapers adopted a new and more resonant sort of headline, the streamer,
a band of emphatic type that ran clean across the page and announced victories or disconcerting
happenings. They did this every day, whether there was a great battle or the loss of a trawler
to announce, and the public mind speedily adapted itself to the new pitch.

There was no invitation from the government and no organisation for any general participation
in war. People talked unrestrictedly; every one seemed to be talking; they waved flags and
displayed much vague willingness to do something. Any opportunity of service was taken very
eagerly. Lord Kitchener was understood to have demanded five hundred thousand men; the War
Office arrangements for recruiting, arrangements conceived on a scale altogether too small,
were speedily overwhelmed by a rush of willing young men. The flow had to be checked by raising
the physical standard far above the national average, and recruiting died down to manageable
proportions. There was a quite genuine belief that the war might easily be too exclusively
considered; that for the great mass of people it was a disturbing and distracting rather than
a vital interest. The phase "Business as Usual" ran about the world, and the papers abounded
in articles in which going on as though there was no war at all was demonstrated to be the
truest form of patriotism. "Leave things to Kitchener" was another watchword with a strong
appeal to the national quality. "Business as usual during Alterations to the Map of Europe"
was the advertisement of one cheerful barber, widely quoted....

Hugh was at home all through August. He had thrown up his rooms in London with his artistic
ambitions, and his father was making all the necessary arrangements for him to follow Cardinal
to Cambridge. Meanwhile Hugh was taking up his scientific work where he had laid it down. He
gave a reluctant couple of hours in the afternoon to the mysteries of Little-go Greek, and
for the rest of his time he was either working at mathematics and mathematical physics or experimenting
in a little upstairs room that had been carved out of the general space of the barn. It was
only at the very end of August that it dawned upon him or Mr. Britling that the war might have
more than a spectacular and sympathetic appeal for him. Hitherto contemporary history had happened
without his personal intervention. He did not see why it should not continue to happen with
the same detachment. The last elections--and a general election is really the only point at
which the life of the reasonable Englishman becomes in any way public--had happened four years
ago, when he was thirteen.

Section 14

For a time it was believed in Matching's Easy that the German armies had been defeated and
very largely destroyed at Liège. It was a mistake not confined to Matching's Easy.

The first raiding attack was certainly repulsed with heavy losses, and so were the more systematic
assaults on August the sixth and seventh. After that the news from Liège became uncertain,
but it was believed in England that some or all of the forts were still holding out right up
to the German entry into Brussels. Meanwhile the French were pushing into their lost provinces,
occupying Altkirch, Mulhausen and Saarburg; the Russians were invading Bukovina and East Prussia;
the Goeben, the Breslau and the Panther had been sunk by the newspapers in an imaginary battle
in the Mediterranean, and Togoland was captured by the French and British. Neither the force
nor the magnitude of the German attack through Belgium was appreciated by the general mind,
and it was possible for Mr. Britling to reiterate his fear that the war would be over too soon,
long before the full measure of its possible benefits could be secured. But these apprehensions
were unfounded; the lessons the war had in store for Mr. Britling were far more drastic than
anything he was yet able to imagine even in his most exalted moods.

He resisted the intimations of the fall of Brussels and the appearance of the Germans at Dinant.
The first real check to his excessive anticipations of victory for the Allies came with the
sudden reappearance of Mr. Direck in a state of astonishment and dismay at Matching's Easy.
He wired from the Strand office, "Coming to tell you about things," and arrived on the heels
of his telegram.

He professed to be calling upon Mr. and Mrs. Britling, and to a certain extent he was; but
he had a quick eye for the door or windows; his glance roved irrelevantly as he talked. A faint
expectation of Cissie came in with him and hovered about him, as the scent of violets follows
the flower.

He was, however, able to say quite a number of things before Mr. Britling's natural tendency
to do the telling asserted itself.

