Henry the fourth of France had but one coach between himself and his queen; whereas no respectable
person can now dispense at the least with a travelling chariot, a barouche, a cab, and a dennet.
Civilization, which received a temporary check during the revolutionary war, has resumed its
march in double-quick time since the Continent has been opened. Champaigne and ices have now
become absolute necessaries at tables where a bottle of humble port and a supernumerary pudding
were esteemed luxuries, fit only for honouring the more solemn rites of hospitality. I say
nothing of heads of hair, and false (I beg pardon--artificial) teeth; without which, at a certain
age, there is no appearing. A bald head, at the present day, is as great an indecency as Humphrey
Clinker's unmentionables; and a dismantled mouth is an outrage on well-bred society. Then,
again, how necessary is a cigar and a meerschaum to a well-appointed man of fashion, and how
can a gentleman possibly show at Melton without at least a dozen hunters, and two or three
hacks, to ride to cover! Yet no one in his senses would tax these things as luxuries; or would
blame his friend for getting into the King's Bench for their indulgence. Even the most austere
judges of the land, and the most jealous juries of tradesmen, have borne ample testimony to
the reasonableness of this modern extension of the wants of life, by the liberal allowance
of necessaries which they have sanctioned in the tailors' bills of litigating minors. This
liberality, indeed, follows, as consequence follows cause. Some one has found, or invented,
a story of a shipwrecked traveller's hailing the gallows as the sure token of a civilized community.
But the jest is by no means a ben trovato; the member of gibbets being inversely as the perfection
of social institutions; and if any one object, that England, while it is the best-governed
country in Europe--its envy and admiration--is also a hanging community par excellence, I must
beg to remind him of the intense interest which an English public feels in the victims of capital
punishment, in the Thurtells and the Fauntleroys; as also of the universal conviction prevailing
in England, that the gallows is a short and sure cut to everlasting happiness. From all this,
if there is any force in logic, we must conclude, that hanging, in this country, is only applied
honoris causâ, as an ovation, in consideration of the great and magnanimous daring of the Alexanders
and Caesars on a small scale, to whom the law adjudges the "palmam qui meruit ferat." The real
and true test of a refined polity is not the gallows; but is to be found rather in such well-imagined
insolvent laws, as discharge a maximum of debt with a minimum of assets; and rid a gentleman
annually of his duns, with the smallest possible quantity of corporeal inconvenience. When
luxuries become necessaries, insolvency is the best safety-valve to discharge the surplus dishonesty
of the people, which, if pent up, would explode in dangerous overt acts of crime and violence;
and it should be encouraged accordingly.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes of a Reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST OF THE PLANTAGENETS. Sir Thomas, finding him very old, is said to have offered him
the run of his kitchen, which he declined, on the ground of his patron having a large family;
but asked his permission to build a small house in one of his fields, and this being granted,
he built a cottage, and continued in it till his death.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIQUITIES BURLESQUED.

We have often been amused with the different wonders of ancient Rome, but seldom more than
with the following piece of antiquarianism burlesqued:--

