In the front of the new part overlooking the entrance court there are six windows, three in
each floor. They are all, except for a slight variation in detail, exactly alike, and are evidently
derived from the Moorish windows in the other parts of the palace. Like them each has two round-headed
lights, and a framing standing on corbelled-out bases at the sides. The capitals are various,
most are mere wreaths of foliage, but one belonging to the centre shaft of the middle window
on the lower floor has twisted round it two branches out of which grow the cusps. While at
the sides there is no distinct abacus, in the centre it is always square and moulded. The cusps
end in knobs like thistle-heads, and are themselves rather branchlike. In the hollow between
the shafts and the framing there are sometimes square or round flowers, sometimes twisting
branches. Branches too form the framing of all, they are intertwined up the sides, and form
above the arches a straight-topped mass of interlacing twigs, out of which grow three large
finials.

Originally the three windows of the upper floor belonged to a large hall whose ceiling was
like that of the Sala dos Cysnes. Unfortunately the ceiling was destroyed, and the hall cut
up into small rooms some time ago. (Fig. 52.)

Inside are several Manoelino doorways. One at the end of a passage has a half-octagonal head,
with curved sides. Beyond a hollow moulding enriched with square flowers are thick twisted
shafts, which are carried up to form a hood-mould following the curves of the opening below,
and having at each angle a large radiating finial.

Besides these additions Dom Manoel made not a few changes in the older part of the palace.
The main door leading into the Sala dos Cysnes is of his time, as is too a window in the upper
passage leading to the chapel gallery. Though the walls of the Sala das Duas Irmãs are probably
older, he altered it inside and built the two rows of columns and arches which support the
floor of the Sala dos Brazões above. The arches are round and unmoulded. The thin columns are
also round, but the bases are eight-sided; so are the capitals, but with a round abacus of
boughs and twisted ribbons. The great hall above is also Dom Manoel's work, though the ceiling
may probably have been retouched since. His also are the two-light windows, with slender shafts
and heads more or less trefoil in shape, but with many small convex curves in the middle. The
lower part of the outer cornice too is interesting, and made of brick plastered. At the bottom
is a large rope moulding, then three courses of tilelike bricks set diagonally. Above them
is a broad frieze divided into squares by a round moulding; there are two rows of these squares,
and in each is an opening with a triangular head like a pigeon-hole, which has given rise to
the belief that it was added by the Marquez de Pombal after the great earthquake. Pombal means
'dovecot,' and so it is supposed that the marquis added a pigeon-house wherever he could. He
may have built the upper part of the cornice, which might belong to the eighteenth century,
but the lower part is certainly older.

The white marble door leading to the Sala dos Brazões from the upper passage is part of Dom
Manoel's work. It has a flat ogee head with round projections which give it a roughly trefoil
shape, and is framed in rope mouldings of great size, which end above in three curious finials.

[Sidenote: Gollegã.]

There are not very many churches built entirely in this style, though to many a door or a window
may have been added or even a nave, as was done to the church of the Order of Christ at Thomar
and perhaps to the cathedral of Guarda. Santa Cruz at Coimbra is entirely Manoelino, but is
too large and too full of the work of the foreigners who brought in the most beautiful features
of the French renaissance to be spoken of now. Another is the church at Gollegã, not far from
the Tagus and about half-way between Santarem and Thomar. It is a small church, with nave and
aisles of five bays and a square chancel. The piers consist of four half-round shafts round
a square. In front the capitals are round next the neck moulding and square next the moulded
abacus, while at the sides they become eight-sided. The arches are of two orders and only chamfered.
The bases are curious, as each part belonging to a different member of the pier begins at a
different level. That of the shaft at the side begins highest, and of the shaft in front lowest,
and both becoming eight-sided, envelop the base of the square centre. These eight-sided bases
interpenetrate with the mouldings of a lower round base, and all stand on a large splayed octagon,
formed from a square by curious ogee curves at the corners. The nave is roofed in wood, but
the chancel is vaulted, having ribs enriched like the chancel arch with cable moulding. The
west front has a plain tower at the end of the south aisle, buttresses with Gothic pinnacles,
a large door below and a round window above. The doorhead is a depressed trefoil, or quatrefoil,
as the central leaf is of two curves. Between the inner and outer round moulding is as usual
a hollow filled with branches. The outer moulding, on its upper side, throws out the most fantastic
curves and cusps, which with their finials nearly encircle two little round windows, and then
in wilder curves push up through the square framing at the top to a finial just below the window.
At the sides two large twisted shafts standing on very elaborate bases end in twisted pinnacles.
The round window is surrounded by large rope moulding, out of which grow two little arms, to
support armillary spheres.

[Sidenote: Sé, Elvas.]

Dom Manoel also built the cathedral at Elvas, but it has been very much pulled about. Only
the nave--in part at least--and an earlier west tower survive. Outside the buttresses are square
below and three-cornered above; all the walls are battlemented; the aisle windows are tall
and round-headed. On the north side a good trefoil-headed door leads to the interior, where
the arches are round, the piers clustered with cable-moulded capitals and starry eight-sided
abaci. There is a good vault springing from corbels, but the clerestory windows have been replaced
by large semicircles.

[Sidenote: Marvilla, Santarem.]

All the body of the church of Santa Maria da Marvilla at Santarem is built in the style of
Dom João III., that is, the nave arcade has tall Ionic columns and round arches. The rebuilding
of the church was ordered by Dom Manoel, but the style called after him is only found in the
chancel and in the west door. The chancel, square and vaulted, is entered by a wide and high
arch, consisting, like the door to the Sala das Pegas at Cintra, of a series of moulded convex
curves. The west door is not unlike that at Gollegã. It has a trefoiled head; with a round
moulding at the angle resting on the

capitals of thin shafts. Beyond a broad hollow over which straggles a very realistic and thick-stemmed
plant is a large round moulding springing from larger shafts and concentric with the inner.
As at Gollegã from the outer side of this moulding large cusps project, one on each side, while
in the middle it rises up in two curves forming an irregular pentagon with curved sides. Each
outward projection of this round moulding ends in a large finial, so that there are five in
all, one to each cusp and three to the pentagon. Beyond this moulding a plain flat band runs
up the jambs and round the top cutting across the base of the cusps and of the pentagon. The
bases of the shafts rest on a moulded plinth and are eight-sided, as are the capitals round
which run small wreaths of leaves. Here the upright shafts at the sides are not twisted but
run up in three divisions to Gothic pinnacles. (Fig. 53.)

[Sidenote: Madre de Deus.]

Almost exactly the same is a door in the Franciscan nunnery called Madre de Deus, founded to
the east of Lisbon in 1509 by Dona Leonor, the widow of Dom João II. and sister of Dom Manoel.
The only difference is that the shafts at the sides are both twisted, that the pentagon at
the top is a good deal larger and has in it the royal arms, and that at the sides are shields,
one on the right with the arms of Lisbon--the ship guided by ravens in which St. Vincent's
body floated from the east of Spain to the cape called after him--and one on the left with
a pelican vulning her breast.[107]

The proportions of this door are rather better than those of the door at Santarem, and it looks
less clumsy, but it is impossible to admire either the design or the execution. The fat round
outer moulding with its projecting curves and cusps is very unpleasing, the shafts at the sides
are singularly purposeless, and the carving is coarse. At Gollegã the design was even more
outrageous, but there it was pulled together and made into a not displeasing whole by the square
framing.

[Sidenote: University Chapel, Coimbra.]

What has been since 1540 the university at Coimbra was originally the royal palace, and the
master of the works there till the time of his death in 1524 was Marcos Pires, who also planned
and carried out most of the great church of Santa Cruz. Probably the university chapel is his
work, for the windows are not at all unlike those at Santa Cruz. The door in many ways resembles
the three last described, but the detail is smaller and all the proportions better. The door
is double with a triple shaft in the middle; the two openings have very flat trefoil heads
with a small ogee curve to the central leaf. The jambs have on each side two slender shafts
between which there is a delicate twisted branch, and beyond them is a band of finely carved
foliage and then another shaft. From these side shafts there springs a large trefoil, encompassing
both openings. It is crocketed on the outside and has the two usual ogee cusps or projections
on the outer side; but, instead of a large curved pentagon in the middle, the mouldings of
the projections and of the trefoil then intertwine and rise up to some height forming a kind
of wide-spreading cross with hollow curves between the arms. The arms of the cross end in finials,
as do the ogee projections; there is a shield on each side below the cross arms, another crowned
and charged with the royal arms above the central shaft, and on one side of it the Cross of
the Order of Christ, and on the other an armillary sphere. On either side, as usual, on an
octagonal base are tall twisted shafts, with a crown round the base of the twisted pinnacles
which rise just to the level of the spreading arms of the cross. Like the door at Santarem
the whole would be sprawling and ill-composed but that here the white-wash of the wall comes
down only to the arms of the cross, so as to give it--built as it is of grey limestone--a simple
square outline, broken only by the upper arm and finial of the cross.

The heads of the two windows, one on either side of the door, are half-irregular octagons with
convex sides. They are surrounded by a broad hollow splay framed by thin shafts resting on
corbels and bearing a head, a flat ogee in shape, but broken by two hanging points; one of
the most common shapes for a Manoelino window. (Fig. 54.)

One more doorway before ending this chapter, already too long.

[Sidenote: São Julião, Setubal.]

The parish church of São Julião at Setubal was built during the early years of the sixteenth
century, but was so shattered by the great earthquake of 1755 that only two of the doorways
survive of the original building. The western is not of much interest, but that on the north--probably
the work of João Fenacho who is mentioned as being a well-known carver working at Setubal in
1513--is one of the most elaborate doorways of that period.

The northern side of the church is now a featureless expanse

of whitewashed plaster, scarcely relieved by a few simple square windows up near the cornice;
but near the west end, in almost incongruous contrast, the plainness of the plaster is emphasised
by the exuberant mouldings and carving of the door. Though in some features related to the
doors at Santarem or the Madre de Deus the door here is much more elaborate and even barbaric,
but at the same time, being contained within a simple gable-shaped moulding under a plain round
arch, with no sprawling projections, the whole design--as is the case with the university chapel
at Coimbra--is much more pleasing, and if the large outer twisted shafts with their ogee trefoiled
head had been omitted, would even have been really beautiful.

The opening of the door itself has a trefoiled head, whose hollow moulding is enriched with
small well-carved roses and flowers. This trefoiled head opens under a round arch, springing
from delicate round shafts, shafts and arch-mould being alike enriched with several finely
carved rings, while from ring to ring the rounded surface is beautifully wrought with wonderful
minutely carved spirals. The bases and caps of these, as of the other larger shafts, are of
the usual Manoelino type, round with a hollow eight-sided abacus. Beyond these shafts and their
arch, rather larger shafts, ringed in the same way and carved with a delicate diaper, support
a larger arch, half-octagonal in shape and with convex sides, all ornamented like its supports,
while all round this and outside it there runs a broad band of foliage, half Gothic, half renaissance
in character. Beyond these again are the large shafts with their ogee trefoiled arch, which
though they spoil the beauty of the design, at the same time do more than all the rest to give
that strange character which it possesses. These shafts are much larger than the others, indeed
they are made up of several round mouldings twisted together each of the same size as the shaft
next them. Base and capital are of course also much larger, and there is only one ring ornament,
above which the twisting is reversed. All the mouldings are carved, some with spirals, some
with bundles of leaves bound round by a rope, with bunches of grape-like fruit between. The
twisted mouldings are carried up beyond the capitals to form a huge trefoil turning up at the
top to a large and rather clumsy finial. In this case the upright shafts at the sides are not
twisted as in the other doors; they are square in plan, interrupted by a moulding at the level
of the capitals, below which they are carved on each face with large square flowers, while
above they have a round moulding at the angles. At the top are plain Gothic pinnacles; behind
which rises the enclosing arch, due doubtless to the restoration after the earthquake. The
gable-shaped moulding runs from the base of these pinnacles to the top of the ogee, and forms
the boundary between the stonework and the plaster.

Such then is the Manoelino in its earlier forms, and there can be little doubt that it was
gradually evolved from a union of late Gothic and Moorish, owing some peculiarities such as
twisted shafts, rounded mouldings, and coupled windows to Moorish, and to Gothic others such
as its flowery finials. The curious outlines of its openings may have been derived, the simpler
from Gothic, the more complex from Moorish. Steps are wanting to show whence came the sudden
growth of naturalism, but it too probably came from late Gothic, which had already provided
crockets, finials and carved bands of foliage so that it needed but little change to connect
these into one growing plant. Sometimes these Manoelino designs, as in the palace at Cintra,
are really beautiful when the parts are small and do not straggle all over the surface, but
sometimes as in the Marvilla door at Santarem, or in that of the convent of the Madre de Deus
at Lisbon, the mouldings are so clumsy and the design so sprawling and ill-connected, that
they can only be looked on as curiosities of architectural aberration. He and his men were
well received by the zamorim or ruler of the town--then the most important trade centre in
India--and were much helped in their intercourse by a renegade native of Seville who acted
as interpreter. After a stay of about two months he started for home with his ships laden with
spices, and with a letter to Dom Manoel in which the zamorim said:--

'Vasco da Gama, a nobleman of thy household, has visited my kingdom, and has given me great
pleasure. In my kingdom is abundance of cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and precious stones;
what I seek from thy country is gold, silver, coral and scarlet.'[108]

Arriving at Lisbon in July 1499, Vasco da Gama met with a splendid reception from king and
people; was given 20,000 gold cruzados, a pension of 500 cruzados a year, and the title of
Dom; while provision was also made for the families of those who had perished during the voyage;
for out of one hundred and forty-eight who started two years earlier only ninety-six lived
to see Lisbon again.

So valuable were spices in those days that the profit to the king on this expedition, after
all expenses had been paid and all losses deducted, was reckoned as being in the proportion
of sixty to one.

No wonder then that another expedition was immediately organised by Dom Manoel. This armada--in
which the largest ship was of no more than four hundred tons--sailed from Lisbon under the
command of Pedro Alvares Cabral on March 9, 1500. Being driven out of his course, Cabral after
many days saw a high mountain which he took to be an island, but sailing on found that it was
part of a great continent. He landed, erected a cross, and took possession of it in the name
of his king, thus securing Brazil for Portugal. One ship was sent back to Lisbon with the news,
and the rest turned eastwards to make for the Cape of Good Hope. Four were sunk by a great
gale, but the rest arrived at Calicut on September 13th.

Here he too was well received by the zamorim and built a factory, but this excited the anger
of the Arab traders, who burned it, killing fifty Portuguese. Cabral retorted by burning part
of the town and sailed south to Cochin, whose ruler, a vassal of the zamorim, was glad to receive
the strangers and to accept their help against his superior. Thence he soon sailed homewards
with the three ships which remained out of his fleet of thirteen.

In 1502 Dom Manoel received from the Pope Alexander VI. the title of 'Lord of Navigation, conquests
and trade of Ethiopia, Arabia, Persia, and India,' and sent out another great expedition under
Vasco da Gama, who, however, with his lieutenant, Vicente Sodre, found legitimate trade less
profitable than the capture of pilgrim ships going to and from Mecca, which they rifled and
sank with all on board. From the first thus treated they took 12,000 ducats in money and 10,000
ducats' worth in goods, and then blew up the ship with 240 men besides women and children.

Reaching Calicut, the town was again bombarded and sacked, since the zamorim would not or could
not expel all the Arab merchants, the richest of his people.

Other expeditions followed every year till in 1509 a great Mohammedan fleet led by the 'Mirocem,
the Grand Captain of the Sultan of Grand Cairo and of Babylon,' was defeated off the island
of Diu, and next year the second viceroy, Affonso de Albuquerque, moved the seat of the government
from Cochin to Gôa, which, captured and held with some difficulty, soon became one of the richest
and most splendid cities of the East.

Ormuz at the mouth of the Persian Gulf and the great depot of Persian trade had been captured
in 1509, and it was not long before the Portuguese had penetrated to the Straits of Malacca
and even to China and Japan.

So within twelve years from the time of Vasco da Gama's voyage the foundations of the Portuguese
empire in the East had been firmly laid--an empire which, however, existed merely as a great
trading concern in which Dom Manoel was practically sole partner and so soon became the richest
sovereign of his time.

Seeing therefore how close the intercourse was between Lisbon and India,[109] it is perhaps
no wonder that, in his very interesting book on the Renaissance Architecture of Portugal, Albrecht
Haupt, struck by the very strange forms used at Thomar and to a lesser degree in the later
additions to Batalha, propounded a theory that this strangeness was directly due to the importation
of Indian details. That the discovery of a sea route to India had a great influence on the
architecture of Portugal cannot be denied, for the direct result of this discovery was to fill
the coffers of a splendour-loving king with what was, for the time, untold wealth, and so to
enable him to cover the country with innumerable buildings; but tempting as it would be to
accept Haupt's theory, it is surely more reasonable to look nearer home for the origin of these
peculiar features, and to see in them only the culmination of the Manoelino style and the product
of an even more exuberant fancy than that possessed by any other contemporary builder. Of course,
when looking for parallels with such a special object in view it is easy enough to find them,
and to see resemblances between the cloister windows at Batalha and various screens or panels
at Ahmedabad; and when we find that a certain Thomas Fernandes[110] had been sent to India
in 1506 as military engineer and architect; that another Fernandes, Diogo of Beja, had in 1513
formed part of an embassy sent to Gujerat and so probably to the capital Ahmedabad; and that
Fernandes was also the name of the architects of Batalha, it becomes difficult not to connect
these separate facts together and to jump to the quite unwarrantable conclusion that the four
men of the same name may have been related and that one of them, probably Diogo, had given
his kinsmen sketches or descriptions on which they founded their designs.[111]

With regard to Thomar, where the detail is even more curious and Indian-looking, the temptation
to look for Indian models is still stronger, owing to the peculiar position which the Order
of Christ at Thomar now held, for the knights of that order had for some time possessed complete
spiritual jurisdiction over India and all other foreign conquests.

This being so, it might have seemed appropriate enough for Dom Manoel to decorate the additions
he made to the old church with actual Indian detail, as his builder did with corals and other
symbols of the strange discoveries then made. The fact also that on the stalls at Santa Cruz
in Coimbra are carved imaginary scenes from India and from Brazil might seem to be in favour
of the Indian theory, but the towns and forests there depicted are exactly what a mediæval
artist would invent for himself, and are not at all like what they were supposed to represent,
and so, if they are to be used in the argument at all, would rather go to show how little was
actually known of what India was like.

There seems also not to be even a tradition that anything of the sort was done, and if a tradition
has survived about the stalls at Coimbra, surely, had there been one, it might have survived
at Thomar as well.

At the same time it must be admitted that the bases of the jambs inside the west window in
the chapter-house are very unlike anything else, and are to a Western eye like Indian work.
However, a most diligent search in the Victoria and Albert Museum through endless photographs
of Indian buildings failed to find anything which was really at all like them, and this helped
to confirm the belief that this resemblance is more fancied than real; besides, the other strange
features, the west window outside, and the south window, now a door, are surely nothing more
than Manoelino realism gone a little mad.

Thomar has already been seen in the twelfth century when Dom Gualdim Paes built the sixteen-sided
church and the castle, and when he and his Templars withstood the Moorish invaders with such
success.

As time went on the Templars in other lands became rich and powerful, and in the fourteenth
century Philippe le Bel of France determined to put an end to them as an order and to confiscate
their goods. So in 1307 the grand master was imprisoned, and five years later the Council of
Vienne, presided over by Clement V.--a Frenchman, Bertrand de Goth--suppressed the order. Philippe
seized their property, and in 1314 the grand master was burned.

In Portugal their services against the Moors were still remembered, and although by this time
no part of Portugal was under Mohammedan rule, Granada was not far off, and Morocco was still
to some extent a danger.

Dom Diniz therefore determined not to exterminate the Templars, but to change them into a new
military order, so in 1319 he obtained a bull from John XXII. from Avignon constituting the
Order of Christ. At first their headquarters were at Castro-Marim at the mouth of the Guadiana,
but soon they returned to their old Templar stronghold at Thomar and were re-granted most of
their old possessions.

The Order of Christ soon increased in power, and under the administration of Prince Henry,
1417 to 1460, took a great part in the discoveries and explorations which were to bring such
wealth and glory to their country. In 1442, Eugenius IV. confirmed the spiritual jurisdiction
of the order over all conquests in Africa, and Nicholas V. and Calixtus III. soon extended
this to all other conquests made, or to be made anywhere, so that the knights had spiritual
authority over them 'as if they were in Thomar itself.' This boon was obtained by Dom Affonso
V. at his uncle Prince Henry's wish.

When Prince Henry died he was succeeded as duke of Vizeu and as governor of the order by his
nephew Fernando, the second son of Dom Duarte. Fernando died ten years later and was succeeded
by his elder son Diogo, who was murdered fifteen years later by Dom João II. in 1485. Then
the title passed to his brother Dom Manoel, and with it the administration of the order, a
position which he retained when he ascended the throne, and which has since belonged to all
his successors.

Prince Henry finding that the old Templar church with its central altar was unsuited to the
religious services of the order, built a chapel or small chancel out from one of the eastern
sides and dedicated it to St. Thomas of Canterbury. But as the order advanced in wealth and
in power this addition was found to be far too small, and in a general chapter held by Dom
Manoel in 1492 it was determined to build a new Coro large enough to hold all the knights and
leaving the high altar in its old place in the centre of the round church.

In all the Templar churches in England, when more room was wanted, a chancel was built on to
the east, so that the round part, instead of containing the altar, has now become merely a
nave or a vestibule. At Thomar, however, probably because it was already common to put the
stalls in a gallery over the west door, it was determined to build the new Coro to the west,
and this was done by breaking through the two westernmost sides of the sixteen-sided building
and inserting a large pointed arch.

Although it was decided to build in 1492, little or nothing can have been done for long, if
it is true that João de Castilho who did the work was only born about the year 1490; and that
he did it is certain, as he says himself that he 'built the Coro, the chapter-house--under
the Coro--the great arch of the church, and the principal door.'

Two stone carvers, Alvaro Rodrigues and Diogo de Arruda, were working there in 1512 and 1513,
and the stalls were begun in July 1511, so that some progress must have been made by them.
If then João de Castilho did the work he must have been born some time before 1490, as he could
hardly have been entrusted with such a work when a boy of scarcely twenty.

João de Castilho, who is said to have been by birth a Biscayan, soon became the most famous
architect of his time. He not only was employed on this Coro, but was afterwards summoned to
superintend the great Jeronymite monastery of Belem, which he finished. Meanwhile he was charged
by João III. with the building of the vast additions made necessary at Thomar when in 1523
the military order was turned into a body of monks. He lived long enough to become a complete
convert to the renaissance, for at Belem the Gothic framework is all overlaid with renaissance
detail, while in his latest additions at Thomar no trace of Gothic has been left. He died shortly
before 1553, as we learn from a document dated January 1st of that year, which states that
his daughter Maria de Castilho then began, on the death of her father, to receive a pension
of 20,000 reis.

The new Coro is about eighty-five feet long inside by thirty wide, and is of three bays. Standing,
as does the Templars' church, on the highest point of the hill, it was, till the erection of
the surrounding cloisters, clear of any buildings. Originally the round church, being part
of the fortifications, could only be entered from the north, but the first thing done by Dom
Manoel was to build on the south side a large platform or terrace reached from the garden on
the east by a great staircase. This terrace is now bounded on the west by the Cloister dos
Filippes, on the south by a high wall and by the chapter-house, begun by Dom Manoel but never
finished, and on the north by the round church and by one bay of the Coro; and in this bay
is now the chief entrance to the church. The lower part of the two western bays is occupied
by the chapter-house, with one window looking west over the cloister of Santa Barbara, and
one south, now hidden by the upper Cloister dos Filippes and used as a door. [See plan p. 225.]

Inside, the part over the chapter-house is raised to form the choir, and there, till they were
burned in 1810 by the French for firewood, stood the splendid stalls begun in July 1511 by
Olivel of Ghent who had already made stalls for São Francisco at Evora.[112] The stalls had
large figures carved on their backs, a continuous canopy, and a high and elaborate cresting,
while in the centre on the west side the Master's stall ended in a spire which ran up with
numberless pinnacles, ribs and finials to a large armillary sphere just under the vaulting.[113]
Now the inside is rather bare, with no ornament beyond the intricacy of the finely moulded
ribs and the elaborate corbels from which they spring. These are a mass of carving, armillary
spheres, acanthus leaves, shields upheld by well-carved figures, crosses, and at the top small
cherubs holding the royal crown.

The inner side of the door has a segmental head and on either jamb are tall twisted shafts.
A moulded string course running round just above the level once reached by the top of the stalls
turns up over the window as a hood-mould.

At the same time much was done to enrich the old Templars' church. All the shafts were covered
with gilt diaper and the capitals with gold; crockets were fixed to the outer sides of the
pointed arches of the central octagon, and inside it were placed figures of saints standing
on Gothic corbels under canopies of beautiful tabernacle work. Similar statues stand on the
vaulting shafts of the outer polygon and between them, filling in the spaces below the round-headed
windows, are large paintings in the Flemish style common to all Portuguese pictures of that
time--of the Nativity, of the Visit of the Magi, of the Annunciation, and of the Virgin and Child.

To-day the only part of the south side visible down to the ground level is the eastern bay
in which opens the great door. This is one of the works which João de Castilho claims as his,
and on one of the jambs there is carved a strap, held by two lion's paws on which are some
letters supposed to be his signature, and some figures which have been read as 1515, probably
wrongly, for there seems to have been no renaissance work done in Portugal except by Sansovino
till the coming of Master Nicolas to Belem in 1517 or later.[114] If it is 1515 and gives the
date, it must mean the year when the mere building was finished, not the carving, for the renaissance
band can hardly have been done till after his return from Belem.

The doorway is one of great beauty, indeed is one of the most beautiful pieces of work in the
kingdom. The opening itself is round-headed with three bands of carving running all round it,
separated by slender shafts of which the outermost up to the springing of the arch is a beautiful
spiral with four-leaved flowers in the hollows. Of the carved bands the innermost is purely
renaissance, with candelabra, medallions, griffins and leaves all most beautifully cut in the
warm yellow limestone. On the next band are large curly leaves still Gothic in style and much
undercut; and in the last, four-leaved flowers set some distance one from the other.

At the top, the drip-mould grows into a large trefoil with crockets outside and an armillary
sphere within. At the sides tall thin buttresses end high above the door in sharp carved pinnacles
and bear under elaborate canopies many figures of saints.[115] Two other pinnacles rise from
the top of the arch, and between them are more saints. In the middle stands Our Lady, and from
her canopy a curious broken and curving moulding runs across the other pinnacles and canopies
to the sides.

But that which gives to the whole design its chief beauty is the deep shadow cast by the large
arch thrown across from one main buttress to the other just under the parapet. This arch, moulded
and enriched with four-leaved flowers, is fringed with elaborate cusps, irregular in size,
which with rounded mouldings are given a trefoil shape by small beautifully carved crockets.
(Fig. 55.)

Except the two round buttresses at the west end and one on the north side which has Manoelino
pinnacles, all are the same, breaking into a cluster of Gothic pinnacles rather more than half-way
up and ending in one large square crocketed pinnacle very like those at Batalha. The roof being
flat and paved there is no gable at the west end; there is a band of carving for cornice, then
a moulding, and above it a parapet of flattened quatrefoils, in each of which is an armillary
sphere, and at the top a cresting, alternately of cusped openings and crosses of the Order
of Christ, most of which, however, have been broken away. Of the windows all are wide and pointed,
without tracery and deeply splayed. The one in the central bay next the porch has niches and
canopies at the side for statues and jambs not unlike those designed some years after at Belem.
There is also a certain resemblance between the door here and the great south entrance to Belem,
though this one is of far greater beauty, being more free from over-elaboration and greatly
helped by the shadow of the high arch.

So far the design has shown nothing very abnormal; but for one or two renaissance details it
is all of good late Gothic, with scarcely any Manoelino features. It is also more pleasing
than any other contemporary building in Portugal, and the detail, though very rich, is more
restrained. This may be due to the nationality of João de Castilho, for some of the work is
almost Spanish, for example the buttresses, the pinnacles, and the door with its trefoiled
drip-mould.

If, however, the two eastern bays are good late Gothic, what can be said of the western? Here
the fancy of the designer seems to have run quite wild, and here it is that what have been
considered to be Indian features are found.

It is hard to believe that João de Castilho, who nowhere, except perhaps in the sacristy door
at Alcobaça, shows any love of what is abnormal and outlandish, should have designed these
extraordinary details, and so perhaps the local tradition may be so far true, according to
which the architect was not João but one Ayres do Quintal. Nothing else seems to be known of
Ayres--though a head carved under the west window of the chapter-house is said to be his--but
in a country so long illiterate as Portugal, where unwritten stories have been handed down
from quite distant times, it is possible that oral tradition may be as true as written records.

Now it is known that João de Castilho was working at Alcobaça in 1519. In 1522 he was busy
at Belem, where he may have been since 1517, when for the first time some progress seems to
have been made with the building there. What really happened, therefore, may be that when he
left Thomar, the Coro was indeed built, and the eastern buttresses finished, but that the carving
of the western part was still uncut and so may have been the work of Ayres after João was himself
gone.[116] This is, of course, only a conjecture, for Ayres seems to be mentioned in no document,
but whoever it was who carved these buttresses and windows was a man of extraordinary originality,
and almost mad fancy.

To turn now from the question of the builder to the building itself. The large round buttresses
at the west end are fluted at the bottom; at about half their height comes a band of carving
about six feet deep seeming to represent a mass of large ropes ending in tasselled fringes
or possibly of roots. On one buttress a large chain binds these together, on the others a strap
and buckle--probably the Order of the Garter given to Dom Manoel by Henry VII. Above this five
large knotty tree-trunks or branches of coral grow up the buttresses uniting in rough trefoiled
heads at the top, and having statues between them--Dom Affonso Henriques,

Dom Gualdim Paes, Dom Diniz and Dom Manoel--two on each buttress. Then the buttress becomes
eight-sided and smaller, and, surrounded by five thick growths, of which not a square inch
is unworked and whose pinnacles are covered with carving, rises with many a strange moulding
to a high round pinnacle bearing the cross of the order--a sign, if one may take the coral
and the trees to be symbolical of the distant seas crossed and of the new lands visited, of
the supreme control exercised by the order over all missions.

Coral-like mouldings too run round the western windows on both north and south sides, and at
the bottom these are bound together with basket work.

Strange as are the details of these buttresses, still more strange are the windows of the chapter-house.
Since about 1560 the upper cloister of the Filippes has covered the south side of the church
so that the south chapter-house window, which now serves as a door, is hidden away in the dark.
Still there is light enough to see that in naturalism and in originality it far surpasses anything
elsewhere, except the west window of the same chapter-house. Up the jambs grow branches bound
round by a broad ribbon. From the spaces between the ribbons there sprout out on either side
thick shoots ending in large thistle heads. The top of the opening is low, of complicated curves
and fine mouldings, on the outermost of which are cut small curly leaves, but higher up the
branches of the jambs with their thistle heads and ribbons with knotted ropes and leaves form
a mass of inextricable intricacy, of which little can be seen in the dark except the royal arms.

Inside the vault is Gothic and segmental, but the west window is even more strange than the
southern; its inner arch is segmental and there are window seats in the thickness of the wall.
The jambs have large round complicated bases of many mouldings, some enriched with leaves,
some with thistle heads, some with ribbons, and one with curious projections like small elephants'
trunks--in short very much what a Western mind might imagine some Hindu capital, reversed,
to be like. On the jamb itself and round the head are three upright mouldings held together
by carved basket work of cords, and bearing at intervals thistle heads in threes; beyond is
another band of leaf-covered carving, and beyond it an upright strip of wavy lines.[117] The
opening has a head like that of the other window and is filled with a bronze grille.

Still more elaborate and extraordinary is the outside of this window, nor would it be possible
to find words to describe it.

The jambs are of coral branches, with large round shafts beyond, entirely leaf-covered and
budding into thistle heads. Ropes bind them round at the bottom and half-way up great branches
are fastened on by chains. At the top are long finials with more chains holding corals on which
rest armillary spheres. The head of the window is formed of twisted masses, from which project
downwards three large thistle heads. Above this is a great wreath of leaves, hung with two
large loops of rope, and twisting up as a sort of cusped ogee trefoil to the royal arms and
a large cross of the Order of Christ. A square frame with flamelike border rises to the top
of the side finials to enclose a field cut into squares by narrow grooves. Below the window
more branches, coral, and ropes knot each other round the head of Ayres just below the rope
moulding which runs across from buttress to buttress. Above the top of the opening and about
half-way up the whole composition there is an offset, and on it rests a series of disks, set
diagonally and strung on another rope. (Fig. 56.)

Although, were the royal arms and the cross removed, the window might not look out of place
in some wild Indian temple, yet it is much more likely not to be Indian, but that the shafts
at the sides are but the shafts seen in many Manoelino doors, that the window head is an elaboration
of other heads,[118] that the coral jambs are another form of common naturalism, and that the
great wreath is only the hood-mould rendered more extravagant. In no other work in Portugal
or anywhere in the West are these features carved and treated with such wild elaboration, nor
anywhere else is there seen a base like that of the jambs inside, but surely there is nothing
which a man of imagination could not have evolved from details already existing in the country.

Above the window the details are less strange. A little higher than the cross a string course
traverses the front from north to south, crested with pointed cusps. Higher up still, a round
window, set far back in a deep splay, lights the church above. Outside the sharp projecting
outer moulding of this window are rich curling leaves, inside a rope, while other ropes run
spirally across the splay, which seems to swell like a sail, and was perhaps meant to remind
all who saw it that it was the sea that had brought the order and its master such riches and
power. At the top are the royal arms crowned, and above the spheres of the parapet and the
crosses of the cresting another larger cross dominates the whole front.

Such is Dom Manoel's addition to the Templars' church, and outlandish and strange as some of
it is, the beautiful rich yellow of the stone under the blue sky and the dark shadows thrown
by the brilliant sun make the whole a building of real beauty. Even the wild west window is
helped by the compactness of its outline and by the plainness of the wall in which it is set,
and only the great coral branches of the round buttresses are actually unpleasing. The size
too of the windows and the great thickness of the wall give the Coro a strength and a solidity
which agree well with the old church, despite the richness of the one and the severe plainness
of the other. There is perhaps no building in Portugal which so well tells of the great increase
of wealth which began under Dom Manoel, or which so well recalls the deeds of his heroic captains--their
long and terrible voyages, and their successful conquests and discoveries. Well may the emblem
of Hope,[119] the armillary sphere, whereby they found their way across the ocean, be carved
all round the parapet, over the door, and beside the west window with its wealth of knots and
wreaths.

Whether or not Ayres or João de Castilho meant the branches of coral to tell of the distant
oceans, the trees of the forests of Brazil, and the ropes of the small ships which underwent
such dangers, is of little consequence. To the present generation which knows that all these
discoveries were only possible because Prince Henry and his Order of Christ had devoted their
time and their wealth to the one object of finding the way to the East, Thomar will always
be a fitting memorial of these great deeds, and of the great men, Bartholomeu Diaz, Vasco da
Gama, Affonso de Albuquerque, Pedro Cabral, and Tristão da Cunha, by whom Prince Henry's great
schemes were brought to a successful issue.

CHAPTER XII

THE ADDITIONS TO BATALHA

Little had been done to the monastery of Batalha since the death of Dom Duarte left his great
tomb-chapel unfinished. Dom Affonso v., bent on wasting the lives of the bravest of his people
and his country's wealth in the vain pursuit of conquests in Morocco, could spare no money
to carry out what his father had begun, and so make it possible to move his parents' bodies
from their temporary resting-place before the high altar to the chapel intended to receive
them. Affonso V. himself dying was laid in a temporary tomb of wood in the chapter-house, as
were his wife and his grandson, the only child of Dom João II.; while a coffin of wood in one
of the side chapels held Dom João himself.

When João died, his widow Dona Leonor is said to have urged her brother, the new king, to finish
the work begun by their ancestor and so form a fitting burial-place for her son as well as
for himself and his descendants. Dom Manoel therefore determined to finish the Capellas Imperfeitas,
and the work was given to the elder Matheus Fernandes, who had till 1480, when he was followed
by João Rodrigues, been master of the royal works at Santarem. The first document which speaks
of him at Batalha is dated 1503, and mentions him as Matheus Fernandes, vassal of the king,
judge in ordinary of the town of Santa Maria da Victoria, and master of the works of the same
monastery, named by the king. He died in 1515, and was buried near the west door.[120] He was
followed by another Matheus Fernandes, probably his son, who died in 1528, to be succeeded
by João de Castilho. But by then Dom Manoel was already dead. He had been buried not here,
but in his new foundation of Belem, and his son João III. and João de Castilho himself were
too much occupied in finishing Belem and in making great additions to Thomar to be able to
do much to the Capellas Imperfeitas. So after building two beautiful but incongruous arches,
João de Castilho went back to his work elsewhere, and the chapels remain Imperfeitas to this
day. When Matheus Fernandes began his work most of the seven surrounding chapels were finished
except for their vaulting, but not all, as in two or three the outer moulding of the entrance
arch is enriched by small crosses of the Order of Christ, and by armillary spheres carved in
the hollow; while the whole building stood isolated and unconnected with the church.

The first thing, therefore, done by Matheus was to build an entrance hall or pateo uniting
the octagon with the church. Unless the walls of the Pateo be older than Dom Manoel's time
it is impossible now to tell how Huguet, Dom Duarte's architect, meant to connect the two,
perhaps by a low passage running eastwards from the central apse, perhaps not at all.

The plan carried out by Matheus took the form of a rectangular hall enclosing the central apse
and the two smaller apses to the north and south, but leaving--now at any rate--a space between
it and the side apses. Possibly the original intention may have been to pull down the two side
apses, and so to form a square ambulatory behind the high altar leading to the great octagon
beyond; but if that were the intention it was never carried out, and now the only entrance
is through an insignificant pointed door on the north side.

The walls of the Pateo with their buttresses, string courses and parapet are so exactly like
the older work as to suggest that they may really date from the time of Dom Duarte, and that
all that Matheus Fernandes did was to build the vault, insert the windows, and form the splendid
entrance to the octagon; but in any case the building was well advanced if not finished in
1509, when over the small entrance door was written, 'Perfectum fuit anno Domini 1509.'

Two windows light the Pateo, one looking north and one south. They are both alike, and both
are thoroughly Manoelino in style. They are of two lights, with well-moulded jambs, and half-octagonal
heads. The drip-mould, instead or merely surrounding the half octagon, is so broken and bent
as to project across it at four points, being indeed shaped like half a square with a semicircle
on the one complete side, and two quarter circles on the half sides, all enriched by many a
small cusp and leaf. The mullion is made of two branches twisting upwards, and the whole window
head is filled with curving boughs and leaves forming a most curious piece of naturalistic
tracery, to be compared with the tracery of some of the openings in the Claustro Real. (Fig. 58.)

No doubt, while the Pateo was being built, the great entrance to the Imperfect chapels, one
of the richest as well as one of the largest doorways in the world, was begun, and it must
have taken a long time to build and to carve, for the lower part, on the chapel side especially,
seems to be rather earlier in style than the upper. The actual opening to the springing of
the arch measures some 17 feet wide by 28 feet high, while including the jambs the whole is
about 24 feet wide on the chapel, and considerably more on the Pateo side,--since there the
splay is much deeper--by 40 feet high. To take the chapel side first:--Above a complicated
base there is up the middle of each jamb a large hollow, in which are two niches one above
the other, with canopies and bases of the richest late Gothic; on either side of this hollow
are tall thin shafts entirely carved with minute diaper, two on the inner and one on the outer
side. Next towards the chapel is another slender shaft, bearing two small statues one above
the other, and outside it slender Gothic pinnacles and tabernacle work rise up to the capital.
Up the outer side of the jambs are carved sharp pointed leaves, like great acanthus whose stalk
bears many large exquisitely carved crockets. On the other side of the central hollow the diapered
shaft is separated from the tiers of tiny pinnacles which form the inner angle of the jamb
by a broad band of carving, which for beauty of design and for delicacy of carving can scarcely
be anywhere surpassed. On the Pateo side the carving is even more wonderful.[121] There are
seven shafts in all on each side, some diapered, some covered with spirals of leaves, one with
panelling and one with exquisite foliage carved as minutely as on a piece of ivory.

Between each shaft are narrow mouldings, and between the outer five four bands of ivy, not
as rich or as elaborately undercut as on the chapel side, but still beautiful, and interesting
as the ivy forms many double circles, two hundred and four in all, in each of which are written
the words 'Tãyas Erey' or 'Tãya Serey,' Dom Manoel's motto. For years this was a great puzzle.
In the seventeenth century the writer of the history of the Dominican Order in Portugal, Frei
Luis de Souza, boldly said they were Greek, and in this opinion he was supported by 'persons
of great judgment, for "Tanyas" is the accusative of a Greek word "Tanya," which is the same
as region, and "erey" is the imperative of the verb "ereo", which signifies to seek, inquire,
investigate, so that the meaning is, addressed to Dom Manoel, seek for new regions, new climes.'
Of course whatever the meaning may be it is not Greek, indeed at that time in Portugal there
was hardly any one who could speak Greek, and Senhora de Vasconcellos--than whom no one has
done more for the collecting of inscriptions in Portugal--has come to the very probable conclusion
that the words are Portuguese. She holds that 'Tãyas erey' or 'Tãya serey' should be read 'Tanaz
serey,' 'I shall be tenacious'--for Tanaz is old Portuguese for Tenaz--and that the Y is nothing
but a rebus or picture of a tenaz or pair of pincers, and indeed the Y's are very like pincers.
In this opinion she is upheld by the carving of the tenacious ivy round each word, and the
fact that Dom Manoel was not really tenacious at all, but rather changeable, makes it all the
more likely that he would adopt such a motto.

The carvers were doubtless quite illiterate and may well have thought that the pincers in the
drawing from which they were working were a letter and may therefore have mixed them up to
the puzzling of future generations.[122] Or since nowhere is 'Tayaz serey' written with the
'z' may not the first 'y' be the final 'z' of Tanaz misplaced?

The arched head of the opening is treated differently on the two sides. Towards the Pateo the
two outer mouldings form a large half octagon set diagonally and with curved sides; the next
two form a large trefoil. In the spandrels between these are larger wreaths enclosing 'Tanyas
erey,' which is also repeated all round these four mouldings.

The trefoils form large hanging cusps in front of the complicated inner arch. This too is more
or less trefoil in shape,

but with smaller curves between the larger, and all elaborately fringed with cuspings and foliage.

Four mouldings altogether are of this shape, two on each side, and beyond them towards the
chapel is that arch or moulding which gives to the whole its most distinctive character. The
great trefoil, with large cusps, which forms the head is crossed by another moulding in such
a way as to become a cinquefoil, while the second moulding, like the hood of the door at Santarem,
forms three large reversed cusps, each ending in splendid acanthus leaves. Further, the whole
of these mouldings are on the inner side carved with a delicate spiral of ribbon and small
balls, and on the outer with the same acanthus that runs up the jambs.

Now, on the chapel side especially, from the base to the springing there is little that might
not be found in late French Gothic work, except perhaps that diapered shafts were not then
used in France, and that the bands of carving are rather different in spirit from French work;
but as for the head, no opening of that size was made in France of so complicated and, it must
be added, so unconstructional a shape. It is the chef-d'oeuvre of the Manoelino style, and
although a foreigner may be inclined at first, from its very strangeness, to call it Eastern,
it is really only a true development in the hands of a real artist of what Manoelino was; an
expression of Portugal's riches and power, and of the gradual assimilation of such Moors as
still remained on this side the Straits. Of course it is easy to say that it is extravagant,
overloaded and debased; and so it may be. Yet no one who sees it can help falling a victim
to its fascination, for perhaps its only real fault is that the great cusps and finials are
on rather too large a scale for the rest. Not even the greatest purist could help admiring
the exquisite fineness of the carving--a fineness made possible by the limestone, very soft
when new, which gradually hardens and grows to a lovely yellow with exposure to the air. No
records tell us so, but considering the difference in style between the upper and the lower
part it may perhaps be conjectured that the elder Matheus designed the lower part, and the
younger the upper, after his father's death in 1515.

In the great octagon itself the first thing to be done was to build huge piers, which partly
encroach on the small sepulchral chapels between the larger apses. These piers now rise nearly
to the level of the central aisle of the church where they are cut off unfinished; they must
be about 80 or 90 feet in height. On the outer side they are covered with many circular shafts
which are banded together by mouldings at nearly regular intervals. Haupt has pointed out that
in general appearance they are not unlike the great minar called the Kutub at Old Delhi, and
a lively imagination might see a resemblance to the vast piers, once the bases of minars, which
flank the great entrance archways of some mosques at Ahmedabad, for example those in the Jumma
Musjid. Yet there is no necessity to go so far afield. Manoelino architects had always been
fond of bundles of round mouldings and so naturally used them here, nor indeed are the piers
at all like either the Kutub or the minars at Ahmedabad. They have not the batter or the sharp
angles of the one, nor the innumerable breaks and mouldings of the others.

Between each pier a large window was meant to open, of which unfortunately nothing has been
built but part of the jambs.

Inside the vaulting of the apsidal chapels was first finished; all the vaults are elaborate,
have well-moulded ribs, and bosses, some carved with crosses of the Order of Christ, some with
armillary spheres, others with a cross and the words 'In hoc signo vinces,' or with a sphere
and the words 'Espera in Domino.' Where Dom João II. was to be buried is a pelican vulning
herself--for that was his device--and in that intended for his father Dom Affonso V. a 'rodisio'
or mill-wheel. A little above the entrance arches to the chapels the octagon is surrounded
by two carved string courses separated by a broad plain frieze.[123] On the lower string are
the beautifully modelled necks and heads of dragons, springing from acanthus leaves and so
set as to form a series of M's, and on the upper an exquisite pattern arranged in squares,
while on it rests a most remarkable cresting. In this cresting, which is formed of a single
bud set on branches between two coupled buds, the forms are most strange and at the same time
beautiful.

Inside, the great piers have been much more highly adorned than without. The vaulting shafts
in the middle--which, formed of several small round mouldings, have run up quite plain from
the ground, only interrupted by shields and their mantling on the frieze--are here broken and
twisted. On either side are niches with Gothic canopies, above which are interlacing leaves
and branches. Beyond the niches are the window jambs, on which, next the opening, are shafts
carved with naturalistic tree-stems, and between these and the niches two bands of ornament
separated by thin plain shafts.

In each opening these bands are different. In some is Gothic foliage, in others semi-classic
carving like the string below or realistic like the cresting. In others are naturalistic branches,
and in the opening over the chapel where Dom Manoel was to lie are cut the letters M in one
hand and R in the other; Manoel Rey. (Fig. 59.)

Only the first foot or so of the vaulting has been built, and there is nothing now to show
how the great octagon was to be roofed. Murphy[124] gives his idea; the eight piers carried
high up and capped with spires, huge Gothic windows between, and the whole covered by a vast
pointed roof--presumably of wood--above the vault. Haupt with his Indian prepossessions suggests
a dome surrounded by eight great domed pinnacles. Probably neither is right; certainly Murphy's
great roof of wood would never have been made, and as for Haupt's dome nothing domed was built
in Portugal till long after and that at first only on a small scale.[125] Besides, the well-developed
Gothic ribs which are seen springing in each corner clearly show that some kind of Gothic vault
was meant, and not a dome; and that the Portuguese could build wonderful vaults had been already
shown by the chapter-house here and was soon to be shown by the transept at Belem. So in all
probability the roof would have been a great Gothic vault of which the centre would rise very
considerably above the sides; for there is no sign of stilting the ribs over the windows. The
whole would have been covered with stone slabs, and would have been surrounded by eight groups
of pinnacles, most of which would no doubt have been twisted.

Deeply though one must regret that this great chapel has been left unfinished and open to the
sky, yet even in its incomplete state it is a treasure-house of beautiful ornament, and it
is wonderful how well the more commonplace Gothic of Huguet's work agrees with and even enhances
the richness of the detail which Fernandes drew from so many sources, late Gothic, early renaissance,
and naturalistic, and which he knew so well how to combine into a beautiful whole.

The great Claustro Real, built by Dom João I., was peculiar among Portuguese cloisters in having,
or at least being prepared for, large traceried windows. Probably these had remained blank,
and for about a hundred years awaited the tracery which more than any part of the convent shows
the skill of Matheus Fernandes.

There seems to be no exact record of when the work was done, but it must have been while additions
were being made to the Imperfect chapels, though more fortunate than they, the work here was
successfully finished.

The cloister has seven bays on each side, of which the five in the middle are nearly equal,
having either five or six lights. In the eastern corners the openings have only three lights,
in the south-western they have four, and in the north-western there stands the square two-bayed
lavatory. (Fig. 60.)

In all the openings the shafts are alike. They have tall eight-sided and round bases, similar
capitals and a moulded ring half-way up, while the whole shaft from ring to base and from ring
to capital is carved with the utmost delicacy, with spirals, with diaper patterns, or with
leaflike scales. Above the capitals the pointed openings are filled in with veils of tracery
of three different patterns. In the central bay, and in the two next but one on either side
of it, and so filling nine openings, is what at first seems to be a kind of reticulated tracery.
But on looking closer it is found to be built up of leaf-covered curves and of buds very like
those forming the cresting in the Capellas Imperfeitas. In the corner bays--except where stands
the lavatory--there is another form of reticulated tracery, where the larger curves are formed
by branches, whose leaves make the cusps, while filling in the larger spaces are budlike growths
like those in the first-mentioned windows.

On either side of the central openings the tracery is more naturalistic than elsewhere; here
the whole is formed of interlacing and intertwining branches, with leaves and large fruit-like
poppy heads, and in the centre the Cross of the Order of Christ. But of all, the most successful
is in the lavatory; there the two bays which form each side are high and narrow,

with richly cusped pointed arches. Instead of cutting out the cusps and filling the upper part
with tracery, Matheus Fernandes has with extraordinary skill thrown a crested transome across
the opening and below it woven together a veil of exquisitely carved branches, which, resting
on a central shaft, half hide and half reveal the large marble fountain within. (Fig. 61.)

At first, perhaps, accustomed to the ordinary forms of Gothic tracery, these windows seem strange,
to some even unpleasing. Soon, however, when they have been studied more closely, when it has
been recognised that the brilliant sunshine needs closer tracery and smaller openings than
does the cooler North, and that indeed the aim of the designer is to keep out rather than to
let in the direct rays of light, no one can be anything but thankful that Matheus Fernandes,
instead of trying to adapt Gothic forms to new requirements, as was done by his predecessors
in the church, boldly invented new forms for himself; forms which are entirely suited to the
sun, the clear air and sky, and which with their creamy lace make a fitting background to the
roses and flowers with which the cloister is now planted.

Now the question arises, from whence did Matheus Fernandes draw his inspiration? We have seen
that windows with good Gothic tracery are almost unknown in Portugal, for even in the church
here at Batalha the larger windows nearly all show a want of knowledge, and a wish to shut
out the sun as much as possible, and besides there is really no resemblance between the tracery
in the church and that in the cloister.

In the lowest floor of the Torre de São Vicente, begun by Dom João II. and finished by Dom
Manoel to defend the channel of the Tagus, the central hall is divided from a passage by a
thin wall whose upper part is pierced to form a perforated screen. The original plan for the
tower is said to have been furnished by Garcia de Resende, whose house we have seen at Evora,
and if this screen, which is built up of heart-shaped curves, is older than the cloister windows
at Batalha, he may have suggested to Matheus Fernandes the tracery which has a more or less
reticulated form, though on the other hand it may be later and have been suggested by them.
Most probably, however, Matheus Fernandes thought out the tracery for himself. He would not
have had far to go to see real reticulated panelling, for the church is covered with it; but
an even more likely source of this reticulation might be found in the beautiful Moorish panelling
which exists on such buildings as the Giralda or the tower at Rabat, and if we find Moors among
the workmen at Thomar there may well have been some at Batalha as well. As for the naturalistic
tracery, it is clearly only an improvement on such windows as those of the Pateo behind the
church, and there is no need to go to Ahmedabad and find there pierced screens to which they
have a certain resemblance.

However, whatever may be its origin, this tracery it is which makes the Claustro Real not only
the most beautiful cloister in Portugal, but even, as that may not seem very great praise,
one of the most beautiful cloisters in the world, and it must have been even more beautiful
before a modern restoration crowned all the walls with a pierced Gothic parapet and a spiky
cresting, whose angular form and sharp mouldings do not quite harmonise with the rounded and
gentle curves of the tracery below.

After the suppression of the monastic orders in 1834, Batalha, which had already suffered terribly
from the French invasion--for in 1810 during the retreat under Massena two cloisters were burned
and much furniture destroyed--was for a time left to decay. However, in 1840 the Cortes decreed
an annual expenditure of two contos of reis,[126] or about £450 to keep the buildings in repair
and to restore such parts as were damaged.

The first director was Senhor Luis d'Albuquerque, and he and his successors have been singularly
successful in their efforts, and have carried out a restoration with which little fault can
be found, except that they have been too lavish in building pierced parapets, and in filling
the windows of the church with wooden fretwork and with hideous green, red and blue glass.

CHAPTER XIII

BELEM

Belem or Bethlehem lies close to the shore, after the broad estuary of the Tagus has again
grown narrow, about four miles from the centre of Lisbon, and may best be reached by one of
the excellent electric cars which now so well connect together the different parts of the town
and its wide-spreading suburbs.

Situated where the river mouth is at its narrowest, it is natural that it was chosen as the
site of one of the forts built to defend the capital. Here, then, on a sandbank washed once
by every high tide, but now joined to the mainland by so unromantic a feature as the gasworks,
a tower begun by Dom João II., and designed, it is said, by Garcia de Resende, was finished
by Dom Manoel about 1520 and dedicated to São Vicente, the patron of Lisbon.[127]

The tower is not of very great size, perhaps some forty feet square by about one hundred high.
It stands free on three sides, but on the south towards the water it is protected by a great
projecting bastion, which, rather wider than the tower, ends at the water edge in a polygon.

The tower contains several stories of one room each, none of which are in themselves in any
way remarkable except the lowest, in which is the perforated screen mentioned in the last chapter.
In the second story the south window opens on to a long balcony running the whole breadth of
the tower, and the other windows on to smaller balconies. The third story is finished with
a fortified parapet resting on great corbels. The last and fourth, smaller than those below,
is fortified with pointed merlons, and with a round corbelled turret at each corner.

On entering, it is found that the bastion contains a sort of cloister with a flat paved roof
on to which opens the door of the tower. Under the cloister are horrid damp dungeons, last
used by Dom Miguel, who during his usurpation imprisoned in them such of his liberal opponents
as he could catch. The whole bastion is fortified with great merlons, rising above a rope moulding,
each, like those on the tower, bearing a shield carved with the Cross of the Order of Christ,
and by round turrets corbelled out at the corners. These, like all the turrets, are capped
with melon-shaped stone roofs, and curious finials. Similar turrets jut out from two corners
of the ground floor.

The parapet also of the cloister is interesting. It is divided into squares, in each of which
a quatrefoil encloses a cross of the Order of Christ. At intervals down the sides are spiral
pinnacles, at the corners columns bearing spheres, and at the south end a tall niche, elaborately
carved, under whose strange canopy stand a Virgin and Child.

The most interesting features of the tower are the balconies. That on the south side, borne
on huge corbels, has in front an arcade of seven round arches, resting on round shafts with
typical Manoelino caps. A continuous sloping stone roof covers the whole, enriched at the bottom
by a rope moulding, and marked with curious nicks at the top. The parapet is Gothic and very
thin. The other balconies are the same, a pointed tentlike roof ending in a knob, a parapet
whose circles enclose crosses of the order, but with only two arches in front.

The third story is lit by two light windows on three sides, and on the south side by two round-headed
windows, between which is cut a huge royal coat-of-arms crowned.

Altogether the building is most picturesque, the balconies are charming, and the round turrets
and the battlements give it a look of strength and at the same time add greatly to its appearance.
The general outline, however, is not altogether pleasing owing to the setting back of the top
story. (Fig. 62.)

The detail, however, is most interesting. It is throughout Manoelino, and that too with hardly
an admixture of Gothic. There is no naturalism, and hardly any suggestion of the renaissance,
and as befits a fort it is without any of the exuberance so common to buildings of this time.

Now here again, as at Thomar and Batalha, Haupt has seen a result of the intercourse with India;
both in the balconies and in the turret roofs[128] he sees a likeness to a temple in Gujerat;
and it must be admitted that in the example he gives the balconies and roofs are not at all
unlike those at Belem. It might further be urged that Garcia de Resende who designed the tower,
if he was never in India himself, formed part of Dom Manoel's great embassy to Rome in 1514,
when the wonders of the East were displayed before the Pope, that he might easily be familiar
with Indian carvings or paintings, and that finally there are no such balconies elsewhere in
Portugal. All that may be true, and yet in his own town of Evora there are still many pavilions
more like the smaller balconies than are those in India, and it surely did not need very great
originality to put such a pavilion on corbels and so give the tower its most distinctive feature.
As for the turrets, in Spain there are many, at Medina del Campo or at Coca, which are corbelled
out in much the same way, though their roofs are different, and like though the melon-shaped
dome of the turrets may be to some in Gujerat, they are more like those at Bacalhôa, and surely
some proof of connection between Belem and Gujerat, better than mere likeness, is wanted before
the Indian theory can be accepted. That the son of an Indian viceroy should roof his turrets
at Bacalhôa with Indian domes might seem natural; but the turrets were certainly built before
he bought the Quinta in 1528, and neither they nor the house shows any other trace of Indian
influence.

The night of July 7, 1497, the last Vasco da Gama and his captains were to spend on shore before
starting on the momentous voyage which ended at Calicut, was passed by them in prayer, in a
small chapel built by Prince Henry the Navigator for the use of sailors, and dedicated to Nossa
Senhora do Restello.

Two years later he landed again in the Tagus, with a wonderful story of the difficulties overcome
and of the vast wealth which he had seen in the East. As a thankoffering Dom Manoel at once
determined to found a great monastery for the Order of St. Jerome on the spot where stood Prince
Henry's chapel. Little time was lost, and the first stone was laid on April 1 of the next year.

The first architect was that Boutaca who, about ten years before, had built the Jesus Church
at Setubal for the king's nurse, Justa Rodrigues, and to him is probably due the plan. Boutaca
was succeeded in 1511 by Lourenço Fernandes, who in turn gave place to João de Castilho in
1517[129] or 1522.

It is impossible now to say how much each of these different architects contributed to the
building as finished. At Setubal Boutaca had built a church with three vaulted aisles of about
the same height. The idea was there carried out very clumsily, but it is quite likely that
Belem owes its three aisles of equal height to his initiative even though they were actually
carried out by some one else.

Judging also from the style, for the windows show many well-known Manoelino features, while
the detail of the great south door is more purely Gothic, they too and the walls may be the
work of Boutaca or of Lourenço Fernandes, while the great door is almost certainly that of
João de Castilho.

In any case, when João de Castilho came the building was not nearly finished, for in 1522 he
received a thousand cruzados towards building columns and the transept vault.[130]

But even more important to the decoration of the building than either Boutaca or João de Castilho
was the coming of Master Nicolas, the Frenchman[131] whom we shall see at work at Coimbra and
at São Marcos. Belem seems to have been the first place to which he came after leaving home,
and we soon find him at work there on the statues of the great south door, and later on those
of the west door, where, with the exception of the Italian door at Cintra, is carved what is
probably the earliest piece of renaissance detail in the country.

The south door, except for a band of carving round each entrance, is free of renaissance detail,
and so was probably built before Nicolas added the statues, but in the western a few such details
begin to appear, and in these, as in the band round the other openings, he may have had a hand.
Inside renaissance detail is more in evidence, but since the great piers would not be carved
till after they were built, it is more likely that the renaissance work there is due to João
de Castilho himself and to what he had learned either from Nicolas or

from the growing influence of the Coimbra School. It is, of course, also possible that when
Nicolas went to Coimbra, where he was already at work in 1524, some French assistant may have
stayed behind, yet the carving on the piers is rather coarser than in most French work, and
so was more probably done by Portuguese working under Castilho's direction.

The monastic buildings were begun after the church; but although at first renaissance forms
seem supreme in the cloisters, closer inspection will show that they are practically confined
to the carving on the buttresses and on the parapets of the arches thrown across from buttress
to buttress. All the rest, except the door of the chapter-house--the refectory, undertaken
by Leonardo Vaz, the chapter-house itself, and the great undercroft of the dormitory stretching
607 feet away opposite the west door, and scarcely begun in 1521, are purely Manoelino, so
that the date 1544 on the lower cloister must refer to the finishing of the renaissance additions
and not to the actual building, especially as the upper cloister is even more completely Gothic
than the lower.

The sacristy, adjoining the north transept, must have been one of the last parts of the original
building to be finished, since in it the vault springs in the centre from a beautiful round
shaft covered with renaissance carving and standing on a curious base. (Fig. 63.)

The first chancel, which in 1523 was nearly ready, was thought to be too small and so was pulled
down, being replaced in 1551 by a rather poor classic structure designed by Diogo de Torralva.
In it now lie Dom Manoel, his son Dom João III., and the unfortunate Dom Sebastião, his great-grandson.
Vasco da Gama and other national heroes have also found a resting-place in the church, and
the chapter-house is nearly filled with the tomb of Herculano, the best historian of his country.

Since the expulsion of the monks in 1834 the monastic buildings have been turned into an excellent
orphanage for boys, who to the number of about seven hundred are taught some useful trade and
who still use the refectory as their dining-hall. The only other change since 1835 has been
the building of an exceedingly poor domed top to the south-west tower instead of its original
low spire, the erection of an upper story above the long undercroft, and of a great entrance
tower half-way along, with the result that the tower soon fell, destroying the vault below.

The plan of the church is simple but original. It consists of a nave of four bays with two
oblong towers to the west. The westernmost bay is divided into two floors by a great choir
gallery entered from the upper cloister and also extending to the west between the towers,
which on the ground floor form chapels. The whole nave with its three aisles of equal height
measures from the west door to the transept some 165 feet long by 77 broad and over 80 high.
East of the nave the church spreads out into an enormous transept 95 feet long by 65 wide,
and since the vast vault is almost barrel-shaped considerably higher than the nave. North and
south of this transept are smaller square chapels, and to the east the later chancel, the whole
church being some 300 feet long inside. North of the nave is the cloister measuring 175 feet
by 185, on its western side the refectory 125 feet by 30, and on the east next the transept
a sacristy 48 feet square, and north of it a chapter-house of about the same size, but increased
on its northern side by a large apse. In the thickness of the north wall of the nave a stair
leads from the transept to the upper cloister, and a series of confessionals open alternately,
the one towards the church for the penitent and the next towards the lower cloister for the
father confessor. Lastly, separated from the church by an open space once forming a covered
porch, there stretches away to the west the great undercroft, 607 feet long by 30 wide.

Taking the outside of the church first. The walls of the transept and of the transept chapel
are perfectly plain, without buttresses, with but little cornice and, now at least, without
a cresting or parapet. They are only relieved by an elaborate band of ornament which runs along
the whole south side of the church, by the tall round-headed windows, and in the main transept
by a big rope moulding which carries on the line of the chapel roof. Plain as it is, this part
of the church is singularly imposing from its very plainness and from its great height, and
were the cornice and cresting complete and the original chancel still standing would equal
if not surpass in beauty the more elaborate nave. The windows--one of which lights the main
transept on each side of the chancel, and two, facing east and west, the chapel which also
has a smaller round window looking south--are of great size, being about thirty-four feet high
by over six wide; they are deeply set in the thick wall, are surrounded by two elaborate bands
of carving, and have crocketed ogee hood-moulds.

The great band of ornament which is interrupted by the lower part of the windows has a rope
moulding at the top above which are carved and interlacing branches, two rope mouldings at
the bottom, and between them a band of carving consisting of branches twisted into intertwining
S's, ending in leaves at the bottom and buds at the top, the whole being nearly six feet across.

The three eastern bays of the nave are separated by buttresses, square below, polygonal above,
and ending in round shafts and pinnacles at the top. The cornice, here complete, is deep with
its five carved mouldings, but not of great projection. On it stands the cresting of elaborately
branched leaves, nearly six feet high.

The central bay is entirely occupied by the great south door which, with its niches, statues
and pinnacles entirely hides the lower part of the buttresses. The outer round arch of the
door is thrown across between the two buttresses, which for more than half their height are
covered with carved and twisted mouldings, with niches, canopies, corbels, and statues all
carved with the utmost elaboration. Immediately above the great arch is a round-headed window,
and on either side between it and the buttresses are two rows of statues and niches in tiers
separated by elaborate statue-bearing shafts and pinnacles. Statues even occupy niches on the
window jamb, and a Virgin and Child stand up in front on the end of the ogee drip-mould of
the great arch. (Fig. 64.)

It will be seen later how poorly Diogo de Castilho at Coimbra finished off his window on the
west front of Santa Cruz. Here the work was probably finished first, and it is curious that
Diogo in copying his brother's design did not also copy the great canopy which overshadows
the window and which, rising through the cornice to a great pinnacled niche, so successfully
finishes the whole design. Here too the buttresses carry up the design to the top of the wall,
and with the strong cornice and rich cresting save it from the weakness which at Coimbra is
emphasised by the irregularity of the walling above.

Luckier than the door at Coimbra this one retains its central jamb, on which, on a twisting
shaft from whose base look out two charming lions, there stands, most appropriately, Prince
Henry the Navigator, without whose enterprise Vasco da Gama would in all probability never
have sailed to India and so given occasion for the founding of this church. Round each of the
two entrances runs a band of renaissance carving, and the flat reliefs in the divided tympanum
are rather like some that may be seen in France,[132] but otherwise the detail is all Gothic.
Twisted shafts bearing the corbels, elaborate canopies, crocketed finials, all are rather Gothic
than Manoelino. Since the material--a kind of marble--is much less fine than the stone used
at Batalha or in Coimbra or Thomar, the carving is naturally less minute and ivory-like than
it is there, and this is especially the case with the foliage, which is rather coarse. The
statues too--except perhaps Prince Henry's--are a little short and sturdy.

The tall windows in the bays on either side of this great door are like those in the transept,
except that round them are three bands of carving instead of two, the one in the centre formed
of rods which at intervals of about a foot are broken to cross each other in the middle, and
that beyond the jambs tall twisted shafts run up to round finials just under the cornice.

In the next bay to the west, where is the choir gallery inside, there are two windows, one
above the other, like the larger ones but smaller, and united by a moulding which runs round both.

The same is the case with the tower, where, however, the upper window is divided into two,
the lower being a circle and the upper having three intersecting lights. The drip-mould is
also treated in the common Manoelino way with large spreading finials. Above the cornice, which
is less elaborate than in the nave, was a short octagonal drum capped by a low spire, now replaced
by a poor dome and flying buttresses.

The west door once opened into a three-aisled porch now gone. It is much less elaborate than
the great south door, but shows great ingenuity in fitting it in under what was once the porch
vault. The twisted and broken curves of the head follow a common Manoelino form, and below
the top of the broken hood-mould are two flying angels who support a large corbel on which
is grouped the Holy Family. On the jambs are three narrow bands of foliage, and one of figures
standing under renaissance canopies. On either side are spreading corbels and large niches
with curious bulbous canopies[133] under which kneel Dom Manoel on the left presented by St.
Jerome, and on the right, presented by St. John the Baptist, his second wife, Queen Maria--like
the first, Queen Isabel, a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella and the aunt of his third wife,
Leonor. These figures are evidently portraits, and even if they were flattered show that they
were not a handsome couple.

Below these large corbels, on which are carved large angels, are two smaller niches with figures,
one on each side of the twisted shaft. Renaissance curves form the heads of these as they do
of larger niches, one on each side of the Holy Family above, which contain the Annunciation
and the Visit of the Wise Men.

Beyond Dom Manoel and his wife are square shafts with more niches and figures, and beyond them
again flatter niches, half Manoelino, half renaissance. The rest of the west front above the
ruined porch is plain except for a large round window lighting the choir gallery. The north-west
tower does not rise above the roof.

Outside, the church as a whole is neither well proportioned nor graceful. The great mass of
the transept is too overwhelming, the nave not long enough, and above all, the large windows
of the nave too large. It would have looked much better had they been only the size of the
smaller windows lighting the choir gallery--omitting the one below, and this would further
have had the advantage of not cutting up the beautiful band of ornament. But the weakest part
of the whole design are the towers, which must always have been too low, and yet would have
been too thin for the massive building behind them had they been higher. Now, of course, the
one finished with a dome has nothing to recommend it, neither height, nor proportion, nor design.
Yet the doorway taken by itself, or together with the bay on either side, is a very successful
composition, and on a brilliantly sunny day so blue is the sky and so white the stone that
hardly any one would venture to criticise it for being too elaborate and over-charged, though
no doubt it might seem so were the stone dingy and the sky grey and dull.

The church of Belem may be ill-proportioned and unsatisfactory outside, but within it is so
solemn and vast as to fill one with surprise. Compared with many churches the actual area is
not really very great nor is it very high, yet there is perhaps no other building which gives
such an impression of space and of freedom. Entering from the brilliant sunlight it seems far
darker than, with large windows, should be the case, and however hideous the yellow-and-blue
checks with which they are filled may be, they have the advantage of keeping out all brilliant
light; the huge transept too is not well lit and gives that feeling of vastness and mystery
which, as the supports are few and slender, would otherwise be wanting, while looking westwards
the same result is obtained by the dark cavernous space under the gallery. (Fig. 65.)

On the south side the walls are perfectly plain, broken only by the windows, whose jambs are
enriched with empty niches; on the north the small windows are placed very high up, the twisted
vaulting shafts only come down a short way to a string course some way below the windows, leaving
a great expanse of cliff-like wall. At the bottom are the confessional doors, so small that
they add greatly to the scale, and above them tall narrow niches and their canopies. But the
nave piers are the most astonishing part of the whole building. Not more than three feet thick,
they rise up to a height of nearly seventy feet to support a great stone vault. Four only of
the six stand clear from floor to roof, for the two western are embedded at the bottom in the
jambs of the gallery arches. From their capitals the vaulting ribs spread out in every direction,
being constructively not unlike an English fan vault, and covering the whole roof with a network
of lines. The piers are round, stand on round moulded pedestals, and are divided into narrow
strips by eight small shafts. The height is divided into four nearly equal parts by well-moulded
rings, encircling the whole pier, and in the middle of the second of these divisions are corbels
and canopies for statues. The capitals are round and covered with leaves, but scarcely exceed
the piers in diameter. Besides all this each strip between the eight thin shafts is covered
from top to bottom--except where the empty niches occur--with carving in slight relief, either
foliage or, more usually, renaissance arabesques.

Larger piers stand next the transept, cross-shaped, formed of four of the thinner piers set
together, and about six feet thick. They are like the others, except that there are corbels
and canopies for statues in the angles, and that a capital is formed by a large moulding carved
with what is meant for egg and tongue. From this, well moulded and carved arches, round in
the central and pointed in the side aisles, cross the nave from side to side, dividing its
vault from that of the transept.

This transept vault, perhaps the largest attempted since the days of the Romans--for it covers
a space measuring about ninety-five feet by sixty-five--is three bays long from north to south
and two wide from east to west; formed of innumerable ribs springing from these points--of
which those at the north and south ends are placed immediately above the arches leading to
the chapels--it practically assumes in the middle the shape of a flat oblong dome.

Now, though the walls are thick, there are no buttresses, and the skill and daring required
to build a vault sixty-five feet wide and about a hundred feet high resting on side walls on
one side and on piers scarcely six feet thick on the other must not only excite the admiration
of every one, especially when it is remembered that no damage was caused by the great earthquake
which shook Lisbon to pieces in 1755, but must also raise the wish that what has been so skilfully
done here had been also done in the Capellas Imperfeitas at Batalha.

At the north end of the main transept are two doors, one leading to the cloister and one to
the sacristy. A straight and curved moulding surrounds their trefoil heads under a double twining
hood-mould. Outside, other mouldings rise high above the whole to form a second large trefoil,
whose hood-mould curves into two great crocketed circles before rising to a second ogee.

The chancel has a round and the chapels pointed entrance arches, formed, as are the jambs,
of two bands of carving and two thick twisted mouldings. Tomb recesses, added later, with strapwork
pediments line the chapels, and at the entrance to the chancel are two pulpits, for the Gospel
and Epistle. These are rather like João de Ruão's pulpit at Coimbra in outline, but supported
on a large capital are quite Gothic, as are the large canopies which rise above them.

Strong arches with cable mouldings lead to the space under the gallery, which is supported
by an elaborate vault, elliptical in the central and pointed in the side aisles.

In the gallery itself--only to be entered from the upper cloister--are the choir stalls, of
Brazil wood, added in 1560, perhaps from the designs of Diogo da Carta.[134]

With the earlier stalls at Santa Cruz and at Funchal, and the later at Evora, these are almost
the only ones left which have not been replaced by rococo extravagances.

The back is divided into large panels three stalls wide, each containing a painting of a saint,
and separated by panelled and carved Corinthian pilasters. Below each painting is an oblong
panel with, in the centre, a beautifully carved head looking out of a circle, and at the sides
bold carvings of leaves, dragons, sirens, or animals, while beautiful figures of saints stand
in round-headed niches under the pilasters. At the ends are larger pilasters, and a cornice
carried on corbels serves as canopy. Each of the lower stalls has a carved panel under the
upper book-board, but the small figures which stood between them on the arms are nearly all gone.

If 1560 be the real date, the carving is extraordinarily early in character; the execution
too is excellent, though perhaps the heads under the paintings are on too large a scale for
woodwork, still they are not at all coarse, and would be worthy of the best Spanish or French
sculptors.

The cloister, nearly, but not quite square, has six bays on each side, of which the four central
bays are of four lights each, while narrower ones at the ends have no tracery. In the traceried
bays the arches are slightly elliptical, subdivided by two round-headed arches, which in turn
enclose two smaller round arches enriched some with trefoil cusps, some with curious hanging
pieces of tracery which are put, not in the middle, but a little to the side nearer the central
shaft. The shafts are round, very like those at Batalha, and, like every inch of the arch and
tracery mouldings, are covered with ornament; some are twisted, some diapered, some covered
with renaissance detail. Broad bands too of carving run round the inside and the outside of
the main arches, the inner being almost renaissance and the outer purely Manoelino. The vault
of many ribs, varying in arrangement in the different walks, is entirely Gothic, while all
the doors--except the double opening leading to the chapter-house, which has beautifully carved
renaissance panels on the jambs--are Manoelino. The untraceried openings at the ends are fringed
with very extraordinary lobed projections, and on the solid pieces of walling at the corners
are carved very curious and interesting coats of arms crosses and emblems worked in with beautifully
cut leaves and birds. (Figs. 66 and 67.)

Outside, between each bay, wide buttresses project, of which the front--formed into a square
pilaster--is enriched with panels of beautiful renaissance work, while the back part is fluted
or panelled. From the top mouldings of these pilasters, rather higher than the capitals of
the openings, elliptical arches with a vault behind are thrown across from pier to pier with
excellent effect. Now, the base mouldings of these panelled pilasters either do not quite fit
those of the fluted strips behind, or else are cut off against them, as are also the top mouldings
of the fluted part; further, the fluted part runs up rather awkwardly into the vault, so that
it seems reasonable to conjecture that these square renaissance pilasters and the arches may
be an after-thought, added because it was found that the original buttresses were not quite
strong enough for their work, and this too would account for the purely renaissance character
of the carving on them, while the rest is almost entirely Gothic or Manoelino. The arches are
carried diagonally across the corners, in a very picturesque manner, and they all help to keep
out the direct sunlight and to throw most effective shadows.

The parapet above these arches is carved with very pleasing renaissance details, and above
each pier rise a niche and saint.

The upper cloister is simpler than the lower. All the arches are round with a big splay on
each side carved with four-leaved flowers. They are cusped at the top, and at the springing
two smaller cusped arches are thrown across to a pinnacled shaft in the centre. The buttresses
between them are covered with spiral grooves, and are all finished off with twisted pinnacles.
Inside the pointed vault is much simpler than in the walks below.

Here the tracery is very much less elaborate than in the Claustro Real at Batalha, but as scarcely
a square inch of the whole cloister is left uncarved the effect is much more disturbed and
so less pleasing.

Beautiful though most of the ornament is, there is too much of it, and besides, the depressed
shape of the lower arches is bad and ungraceful, and the attempt at tracery in the upper walks
is more curious than successful.

The chapter-house too, though a large and splendid room, would have looked better with a simpler
vault and without the elliptical arches of the apse recesses.

The refectory, without any other ornament than the bold ribs of its vaulted roof, and a dado
of late tiles, is far more pleasing.

Altogether, splendid as it is, Belem is far less pleasing, outside at least, than the contemporary
work at Batalha or at Thomar, for, like the tower of São Vicente near by, it is wanting in
those perfect proportions which more than richness of detail give charm to a building. Inside
it is not so, and though many of the vaulting ribs might be criticised as useless

and the whole vault as wanting in simplicity, yet there is no such impressive interior in Portugal
and not many elsewhere.

The very over-elaboration which spoils the cloister is only one of the results of all the wealth
which flowed in from the East, and so, like the whole monastery, is a worthy memorial of all
that had been done to further exploration from the time of Prince Henry, till his efforts were
crowned with success by Vasco da Gama.

[Sidenote: Conceição, Velha.]

There can be little doubt that the transept front of the church of the Conceição Velha was
also designed by João de Castilho. The church was built after 1520 on the site of a synagogue,
and was almost entirely destroyed by the earthquake of 1755. Only the transept front has survived,
robbed of its cornice and cresting, and now framed in plain pilasters and crowned by a pediment.
The two windows, very like those at Belem, have beautiful renaissance details and saints in
niches on the jambs.

The large door has a round arch with uprights at the sides rising to a horizontal crested moulding.
Below, these uprights have a band of renaissance carving on the outer side, and in front a
canopied niche with a well-modelled figure. Above they become semicircular and end in sphere-bearing
spirelets. The great round arch is filled with two orders of mouldings, one a broad strip of
arabesque, the other a series of kneeling angels below and of arabesque above. The actual openings
are formed of two round-headed arches whose outer mouldings cross each other on the central
jamb. Above them are two reversed semicircles, and then a great tympanum carved with a figure
of Our Lady sheltering popes, bishops, and saints under her robe: a carving which seems to
have lately taken the place of a large window. (Fig. 68.)

As it now stands the front is not pleasing. It is too wide, and the great spreading pediment
is very ugly. Of course it ought not to be judged by its present appearance, and yet it must
be admitted that the windows are too large and come too near the ground, and that much of the
detail is coarse. Still it is of interest if only because it is the only surviving building
closely related to the church of Belem. Built perhaps to commemorate the expulsion of the Jews,
it shared the fate of the Jesuits who instigated the expulsion, and was destroyed only a few
years before they were driven from the country by the Marques de Pombal.

CHAPTER XIV

THE COMING OF THE FOREIGN ARTISTS

If João de Castilho and his brother Diogo were really natives of one of the Basque provinces,
they might rightly be included among the foreign artists who played such an important part
in Portugal towards the end of Dom Manoel's reign and the beginning of that of his son, Dom
João III. Yet the earlier work of João de Castilho at Thomar shows little trace of that renaissance
influence which the foreigners, and especially the Frenchmen, were to do so much to introduce.

[Sidenote: Santa Cruz, Coimbra.]

A great house of the Canon Regular of St. Augustine had been founded at Coimbra by Dom Affonso
Henriques for his friend São Theotonio in 1131. But with the passage of centuries the church
and monastic building of Sta. Cruz had become dilapidated, and were no longer deemed worthy
of so wealthy and important a body. So in 1502 Dom Manoel determined to rebuild them and to
adorn the church, and it was for this adorning that he summoned so many sculptors in stone
and in wood to his aid.

The first architect of the church was Marcos Pires, to whom are due the cloister and the whole
church except the west door, which was finished by his successor Diogo de Castilho with the
help of Master Nicolas, a Frenchman.

One Gregorio Lourenço seems to have been what would now be called master of the works, and
from his letters to Dom Manoel we learn how the work was going on. After Dom Manoel's death
in 1521 he writes to Dom João III., telling him what, of all the many things his father the
late king had ordered, was already finished and what was still undone.

The church consists of a nave of four bays, measuring some 105 feet by 39, with flanking chapels,
the whole lined with eighteenth-century tiles, mostly blue and white. There are also a great
choir gallery at the west end, a chancel, polygonal

within but square outside, 54 feet long by 20 broad, with a seventeenth-century sacristy to
the south, a cloister to the north, and chapels, one of which was the chapter-house, forming
a kind of passage from sacristy to cloister behind the chancel.

By 1518 the church must have been already well advanced, for in January of that year Gregorio
Lourenço writes to Dom Manoel saying that 'the wall of the dormitory was shaken and therefore
I have sent for "Pere Anes"--Pedro Annes had been master builder of the royal palace, now the
university at Coimbra, and being older may have had more experience than Marcos Pires, the
designer of the monastery--who had it shored up, and they say that after the vault of the cloister
is finished and the wooden floors in it will be quite safe. Also six days ago came the master
of the reredos from Seville and set to work at once to finish the great reredos, for which
he has worked all the wood--he must surely have brought it with him from Seville--but the glazier
has not yet come to finish the windows.'

On 22nd July following he writes again that all but one of the vaults of the cloister were
finished--'and Marcos Pirez works well, and the master of the reredos has finished the tabernacle,
and the "cadeiras" [that is probably, sedilia] and the bishop has come to see them and they
are very good, and the master who is making the tombs of the kings is working at his job, and
has already much stonework.'

These tombs of the kings are the monuments of Dom Affonso Henriques on the north wall of the
chancel and of Dom Sancho I. on the south. The two first kings of Portugal had originally been
buried in front of the old church, and were now for the first time given monuments worthy of
their importance in the history of their country.

In 1521 Dom Manoel died, and next year Gregorio tells his successor what his father had ordered;
after speaking of the pavement, the vault of São Theotonio's Chapel, the dormitory with its
thirty beds and its fireplace, the refectory, the royal tombs and a great screen twenty-five
palms, or about eighteen feet high, he comes to the pulpit--'This, Sir, which is finished,
all who see it say, that in Spain there is no piece of stone of better workmanship, for this
20$000 have been paid,' leaving some money still due.

He then speaks of the different reredoses, tombs of two priors, silver candlesticks, a great
silver cross made by Eytor Gonsalves, a goldsmith of Lisbon, much other church plate, and then
goes on to say that a lectern was ordered for the choir but was not made and was much needed,
as was a silver monstrance, and that the monastery had no money to pay Christovam de Figueiredo
for painting the great reredos of the high altar and those of the other chapels, 'and, Sir,
it is necessary that they should be painted.'

Besides making so many gifts to Sta. Cruz, Dom Manoel endowed it with many privileges. The
priors were exempt from the jurisdiction of the bishop, and had themselves complete control
over their own dependent churches. All the canons were chaplains to the king, and after the
university came back to Coimbra from Lisbon in 1539 Dom João III. made the priors perpetual
chancellors.[135]

By 1522 then the church must have been practically ready, though some carving still had to be done.

Marcos Pires died in 1524 and was succeeded by Diogo de Castilho, and in a letter dated from
Evora in that year the king orders a hundred gold cruzados to be paid to Diogo and to Master
Nicolas[136] for the statues on the west door which were still wanting, and two years later
in September another letter granted Diogo the privilege of riding on a mule.[137]

The interest of the church itself is very inferior to that of the different pieces of church
furniture, nearly all the work of foreigners, with which it was adorned, and of which some,
though not all, survive to the present day.

Inside there is nothing very remarkable in the structure of the church except the fine vaulting
with its many moulded ribs, the large windows with their broken Manoelino heads, and the choir
gallery which occupies nearly two bays at the west end. Vaulted underneath, it opens to the
church by a large elliptical arch which springs from jambs ornamented with beautiful candelabrum
shafts.

Of the outside little is to be seen except the west front, one of the least successful designs
of that period.

In the centre--now partly blocked up by eighteenth-century additions, and sunk several feet
below the street--is a great moulded arch, about eighteen feet across and once divided into
two by a central jamb bearing a figure of Our Lord, whence the door was called 'Portal da Majestade';
above the arch a large round-headed window, deeply recessed, lights the choir gallery, and
between it and the top of the arch are three renaissance niches, divided by pilasters, and
containing three figures--doubtless some of those for which Diogo de Castilho and Master Nicolas
were paid one hundred cruzados in 1524. The window with its mouldings is much narrower than
the door, and is joined to the tall pinnacles which rise to the right and left of the great
opening by Gothic flying buttresses. Between the side pinnacles and the central mass of the
window a curious rounded and bent shaft rises from the hood-mould of the door to end in a semi-classic
column between two niches, and from the shaft there grow out two branches to support the corbels
on which the niche statues stand. All this is very like the great south door of the Jeronymite
monastery at Belem, the work of Diogo's brother João de Castilho; both have a wide door below
with a narrower window above, surrounded by a mass of pinnacles and statues, but here the lower
door is far too wide, and the upper window too small, and besides the wall is set back a foot
or two immediately on each side of the window so that the surface is more broken up. Again,
instead of the whole rising up with a great pinnacled niche to pierce the cornice and to dominate
parapet and cresting, the drip-mould of the window only gives a few ugly twists, and leaves
a blank space between the window head and the straight line of the cornice and parapet; a line
in no way improved by the tall rustic cross or the four broken pinnacles which rise above it.
Straight crested parapets also crown the wall where it is set back, but at the sides the two
corners grow into eight-sided turrets ending in low crocketed stone roofs. Of course the whole
front has suffered much from the raising of the street level, but it can never have been beautiful,
for the setting back of part of the wall looks meaningless, and the turrets are too small for
towers and yet far too large for angle pinnacles. (Fig. 69.)

Although the soft stone is terribly perished, greater praise can be given to the smaller details,
especially to the figures, which show traces of considerable vigour and skill.

If the church shows that Marcos Pires was not a great architect, the cloister still more marks
his inferiority to the Fernandes or to João de Castilho, though with its central fountain and
its garden it is eminently picturesque. Part of it is now, and probably all once was, of two
stories. The buttresses are picturesque, polygonal below, a cluster of rounded shafts above,
and are carried up in front of the upper cloister to end in a large cross. All the openings
have segmental pointed heads with rather poor mouldings. Each is subdivided into two lights
with segmental round heads, supporting a vesica-like opening. All the shafts are round, with
round moulded bases and round Manoelino caps. The central shaft has a ring moulding half-way
up, and all, including the flat arches and the vesicae, are either covered with leaves, or
are twisted into ropes, but without any of that wonderful delicacy which is so striking at
Batalha. Across one corner a vault has been thrown covering a fountain, and though elsewhere
the ribs are plainly moulded, here they are covered with leaf carving, and altogether make
this north-east corner the most picturesque part of the whole cloister. (Fig. 70.)

The upper walk with its roof of wood is much simpler, there being three flat arches to each
bay upheld by short round shafts.

Now to turn from the church itself and its native builders to the beautiful furniture provided
for it by foreign skill. Much of it has vanished. The church plate when it became unfashionable
was sent to Gôa, the great metal screen made by Antonius Fernandes is gone, and so is the reredos
carved by a master from Seville and painted by Christovão de Figueredo. There still hang on
the wall of the sacristy two or three

pictures which may have formed part of this reredos. They are high up and very dirty, but seem
to have considerable merit, especially one of 'Pentecost' which is signed 'Velascus.' The 'Pentecost'
still has for its frame some pieces of beautiful early renaissance moulding not unlike what
may still be seen on the reredos at Funchal, and it is just the size of a panel for a large
reredos. Of course 'Velascus' is not Grão Vasco, though the name is the same, nor can he be
Christovão de Figueredo, but perhaps the painting spoken of by Gregorio Lourenço as done by
Christovão may only have been of the framing and not necessarily of the panels.

These are gone, but there are still left the royal tombs, the choir stalls, the pulpit, and
three beautiful carved altar-pieces in the cloister.

The royal tombs are both practically alike. In each the king lies under a great round arch,
on a high altar-tomb, on whose front, under an egg and tongue moulding a large scroll bearing
an inscription is upheld by winged children. The arch is divided into three bands of carving,
one--the widest--carved with early renaissance designs, the next which is also carried down
the jambs, with very rich Gothic foliage, and the outermost with more leaves. The back of each
tomb is divided into three by tall Gothic pinnacles, and contains three statues on elaborate
corbels and under very intricate canopies, of which the central rises in a spire to the top
of the arch.

On the jambs, under the renaissance band of carving, are two statues one above the other on
Gothic corbels but under renaissance canopies.

Beyond the arch great piers rise up with three faces separated by Gothic pinnacles. On each
face there is at the bottom--above the interpenetrating bases--a classic medallion encompassed
by Manoelino twisting stems and leaves, and higher up two statues one above the other. Of these
the lower stands on a Gothic corbel under a renaissance canopy, and the upper, standing on
the canopy, has over it another tall canopy Gothic in style. Higher up the piers rise up to
the vault with many pinnacles and buttresses, and between them, above the arch, are other figures
in niches and two angels holding the royal arms.

The design of the whole is still very Manoelino, and therefore the master of the royal tombs
spoken of by Gregorio Lourenço was probably a Portuguese, but the skill shown in modelling
the figures and the renaissance details are something quite new. (Fig. 71.)

Many Frenchmen are known to have worked in Santa Cruz. One, Master Nicolas, has been met already
working at Belem and at the west door here, and others--Longuim, Philipo Uduarte, and finally
João de Ruão (Jean de Rouen)--are spoken of as having worked at the tombs.

Though the figures are good with well-modelled draperies, their faces, or those of most of
them, are rather expressionless, and some of them look too short--all indeed being less successful
than those on the pulpit, the work of João de Ruão. It is likely then that the figures are
mostly the work of the lesser known men and not of Master Nicolas or of João de Ruão, though
João, who came later to Portugal, may have been responsible for some of the renaissance canopies
which are not at all unlike some of his work on the pulpit.

The pulpit projects from the north wall of the church between two of the chapels. In shape
it is a half-octagon set diagonally, and is upheld by circular corbelling. It was ready by
the time Gregorio Lourenço wrote to Dom João III. in 1522, but still wanted a suitable finishing
to its door. This Gregorio urged Dom João to add, but it was never done, and now the entrance
is only framed by a simple classic architrave.

Now Georges d'Amboise, the second archbishop of that name to hold the see of Rouen, began the
beautiful tomb, on which he and his uncle kneel in prayer, in the year 1520, and the pulpit
at Coimbra was finished before March 1522.

Among the workmen employed on this tomb a Jean de Rouen is mentioned, but he left in 1521.
The detail of the tomb at Rouen and that of the pulpit here are alike in their exceeding fineness
and beauty, and a man thought worthy of taking part in the carving of the tomb might well be
able to carry out the pulpit; besides, on it are cut initials or signs which have been read
as J.R.[138] The J or I is distinct, the R much less so, but the carver of the pulpit was certainly
a Frenchman well acquainted with the work of the French renaissance. It may therefore be accepted
with perhaps some likelihood, that the Jean de Rouen who left Normandy in 1521, came then to
Coimbra, carved this pulpit, and is the same who as João de Ruão is mentioned in later documents as

still working for Santa Cruz, where he signed a discharge as late as 1549.[139]

The whole pulpit is but small, not more than about five feet high including the corbelled support,
and all carved with a minuteness and delicacy not to be surpassed and scarcely to be equalled
by such a work as the tomb at Rouen. At the top is a finely moulded cornice enriched with winged
heads, tiny egg and tongue and other carving. Below on each of the four sides are niches whose
shell tops rest on small pilasters all covered with the finest ornaments, and in each niche
sits a Father of the Western Church, St. Augustine, St. Jerome, St. Gregory, and St. Ambrose.
Their feet rest on slightly projecting bases, on the front of each of which is a small panel
measuring about four inches by two carved with tiny figures and scenes in slight relief. On
the shell heads, which project a little in the centre, there stand, above St. Augustine three
minute figures of boys with wreaths, the figures being about three or four inches high, above
St. Jerome sit two others, with masks hanging from their arms, upholding a shield and a cross
of the Order of Christ. Those above St. Gregory support a sphere, and above St. Ambrose one
stands alone with a long-necked bird on each side. At each angle two figures, one above the
other, each about eight inches high, stand under canopies the delicacy of whose carving could
scarcely be surpassed in ivory. They represent, above, Religion with Faith, Hope, and Charity,
and below, four prophets. The corbelled support is made up of a great many different mouldings,
most of them enriched in different ways.

Near the top under the angles of the pulpit are beautiful cherubs' heads. About half-way down
creatures with wings and human heads capped with winged helmets grow out of a mass of flat
carving, and at the very bottom is a kind of winged dragon whose five heads stretch up across
the lower mouldings. (Fig. 72.)

Altogether the pulpit is well worthy of the praise given it by Gregorio; there may be more
elaborate pieces of carving in Spain, but scarcely one so beautiful in design and in execution,
and indeed it may almost be doubted whether France itself can produce a finer piece of work.
The figure sculpture is worthy of the best French artists, the whole design is elaborate, but
not too much so, considering the smallness of the scale, and the execution is such as could
only have been carried out in alabaster or the finest limestone, such as that found at Ançã
not far off, and used at Coimbra for all delicate work.[140]

In the discharge signed by João de Ruão in 1549 reredoses are spoken of as worked by him. There
is nothing in the document to show whether these are the three great pieces of sculpture in
the cloisters each of which must once have been meant for a reredos. Unfortunately in the seventeenth
century they were walled up, and were only restored to view not many years ago, and though
much destroyed, enough survives to show that they were once worthy of the pulpit.

They represent 'Christ shown to the people by Pilate,' the 'Bearing of the Cross,' and the
'Entombment.'

In each there is at the bottom a shelf narrower than the carving above, and uniting the two,
a broad band wider at the top than at the bottom, most exquisitely carved in very slight relief,
with lovely early renaissance scrolls, and with winged boys holding shields or medallions in
the centre. Above is a large square framework, flanked at the sides by tall candelabrum shafts
on corbels, and finished at the top by a moulding or, above the 'Bearing of the Cross,' by
a crested entablature, with beautifully carved frieze. Within this framework the stone is cut
back with sloping sides, carved with architectural detail, arches, doors, entablatures in perspective.
At the top is a panelled canopy.

In the 'Ecce Homo' on the left is a flight of steps leading up to the judgment seat of Pilate,
who sits under a large arch, with Our Lord and a soldier on his right. The other half of the
composition has a large arch in the background, and in front a crowd of people some of whom
are seen coming through the opening in the sloping side.

In the 'Bearing of the Cross' the background is taken up by the walls and towers of Jerusalem.
Our Lord with a great T-shaped cross is in the centre, with St. Veronica on the right and a
great crowd of people behind, while other persons look out of the perspective arches at the
side. (Fig. 73.)

In all, especially perhaps in the 'Ecce Homo,' the composition is good, and the modelling of
the figures excellent. Unfortunately the faces are much decayed and perhaps the figures may
be rather wanting in repose, and yet even in their decay they are very beautiful pieces of
work, and show that João de Ruão--if he it was who carved them--was as able to design a large
composition as to carve a small pulpit. Under the 'Ecce Homo,' in a tablet held by winged boys
who grow out of the ends of the scrolls, there is a date which seems to read 1550. The 'Quitaçam'
was signed on the 11th of September 1549, and if 1550 is the date here carved it may show when
the work was finally completed.[141]

There once stood in the refectory a terra cotta group of the 'Last Supper.' Now nothing is
left but a few fragments in the Museum, but there too the figures of the apostles were well
modelled and well executed.

Of the other works ordered by Dom Manoel the only one which still remains are the splendid
stalls in the western choir gallery. These in two tiers of seats run round the three walls
of the gallery except where interrupted by the large west window. They can hardly be the 'cadeiras'
or seats mentioned in Gregorio's letter of July 1518, for it is surely impossible that they
should have been begun in January and finished in July however active the Seville master may
have been, and judging from their carving they seem more Flemish than Spanish, and we know
that Flemings had been working not very long before on the cathedral reredos. The lower tier
of seats has Gothic panelling below, good Miserere seats, arms, on each of which sits a monster,
and on the top between each and supporting the book-board of the upper row, small figures of
men, with bowed backs, beggars, pilgrims, men and women all most beautifully carved. The panels
behind the upper tier are divided by twisted Manoelino shafts bearing Gothic pinnacles, and
the upper part of each panel is enriched with deeply undercut leaves and finials surrounding
armillary spheres. Above the panels, except over the end stalls where sat the Dom Prior and
the other dignitaries, and which have higher canopies, there runs a continuous canopy panelled
with Gothic quatrefoils, and having in front a fringe of interlacing cusps. Between this and
the cresting is a beautiful carved cornice of leaves and of crosses of the Order of Christ,
and the cresting itself is formed by a number of carved scenes, cities, forests, ships, separated
by saintly figures and surmounted by a carved band from which grow up great curling leaves
and finials. These scenes are supposed to represent the great discoveries of Vasco da Gama
and of Pedro Alvares Cabral in India and in Brazil, but if this is really so the carvers must
have been left to their own imagination, for the towns do not look particularly Indian, nor
do the forests suggest the tropical luxuriance of Brazil: perhaps the small three-masted ships
alone, with their high bows and stern, represent the reality. (Fig. 74.)

As a whole the design is entirely Gothic, only at the ends of each row of stalls is there anything
else, and there the panels are carved with renaissance arabesque, which, being gilt like all
the other carving, stands out well from the dark brown background.

These are almost the only mediæval stalls left in the country. Those at Thomar were burnt by
the French, those in the Carmo at Lisbon destroyed by the earthquake, and those at Alcobaça
have disappeared. Only at Funchal are there stalls of the same date, for those at Vizeu seem
rather later and are certainly poorer, their chief interest now being derived from the old
Chinese stamped paper with which their panels are covered.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Sé Velha.]

If the stalls at Santa Cruz are the only examples of this period still left on the mainland,
the Sé Velha possesses the only great mediæval reredos. In Spain great structures are found
in almost every cathedral rising above the altar to the vault in tier upon tier of niche and
panel. Richly gilded, with fine paintings on the panels, with delicate Gothic pinnacles and
tabernacle work, they and the metal screens which half hide them do much to make Spanish churches
the most interesting in the world. Unfortunately in Portugal the bad taste of the eighteenth
century has replaced all those that may have existed by great and heavy erections of elaborately
carved wood. All covered with gold, the Corinthian columns, twisted and wreathed with vines,
the overloaded arches and elaborate entablatures are now often sadly out of place in some old
interior, and make one grieve the more over the loss of the simpler or more appropriate reredos
which came before them.

Dom Jorge d'Almeida held the see of Coimbra and the countship of Arganil--for the bishops are
always counts of

Arganil--from 1481 till 1543, when he died at the age of eighty-five; during these sixty-two
years he did much to beautify his church, and of these additions the oldest is the reredos
put up in 1508. This we learn from a 'quitaçã' or discharge granted in that year to 'Mestre
Vlimer framengo, ora estante nesta cidada, e seu Parceiro João Dipri,' that is, to 'Master
Vlimer a Fleming, now in this city, and to his partner John of Ypres.'

The reredos stands well back in the central apse; it is divided into five upright parts, of
which that in the centre is twice as wide as any of the others, while the outermost with the
strips of panelling and carving which come beyond them are canted, following the line of the
apse wall. Across these five upright divisions and in a straight line is thrown a great flattened
trefoil arch joined to the back with Gothic vaulting. In the middle over the large division
it is fringed with the intersecting circles of curved branches, while from the top to the blue-painted
apse vault with its gilded ribs and stars a forest of pinnacles, arches, twisting and intertwining
branches and leaves rises high above the bishop's arms and mitre and the two angels who uphold
them.

Below the arch the five parts are separated by pinnacle rising above pinnacle. At the bottom
under long canopies of extraordinary elaboration are scenes in high relief. Above them in the
middle the apostles watch the Assumption of the Virgin; saints stand in the other divisions,
one in each, and over their heads are immense canopies rising across a richly cusped background
right up to the vaulting of the arch. Though not so high, the canopy over the Virgin is far
more intricate as it forms a great curve made up of seven little cusped arches with innumerable
pinnacles and spires. (Fig. 75.)

Being the work of Flemings, the reredos is naturally full of that exuberant Flemish detail
which may be seen in a Belgian town-hall or in the work of an early Flemish painter; and if
the stalls at Santa Cruz are not by this same Master Vlimer, the intertwining branches on the
cresting and the sharply carved leaves on the panels show that he had followers or pupils.

Like most Flemish productions, the reredos is wanting in grace. Though it throws a fine deep
shadow the great arch is very ugly in shape and the great canopies are far too large, and yet
the mass of gold, well lit by the windows of the lantern and rising to the dim blue vault,
makes a singularly fine ending to the old and solemn church.

More important than the reredos in the art history of the country are some other changes made
by Dom Jorge, which show that the Frenchmen working at Santa Cruz were soon employed elsewhere.

On the north side of the nave a door leads out of the church, and this these Frenchmen entirely
transformed.

At the bottom, between two much decayed Corinthian pilasters, is the door reached by a flight
of steps. The arch is of several orders, one supported by thin columns, one by square fluted
pilasters. Within these, at right angles to each other, are broad faces carved and resting
on piers at whose corners are tiny round columns, in two stories, with carved reliefs between
the upper pair. In the tympanum is a beautiful Madonna and Child, and two round medallions
with heads adorn the spandrils above the arch. Beyond each pilaster is a canted side joining
the porch to the wall and having a large niche and figure near the top. The whole surface has
been covered with exquisite arabesques like those below the reredoses in the cloister at Santa
Cruz, but they have now almost entirely perished.

Above the entablature a second story rises forming a sort of portico. At the corners are square
fluted Corinthian pilasters; between them in front runs a balustrading, divided into three
by the pedestals of two slender columns, Corinthian also, and there are others next the pilasters.
The entablature has been most delicate, with the finest wreaths carved on the frieze. Over
the canted sides are built small round-domed turrets.

Above this the third story reaches nearly up to the top of the wall. In the middle is an arch
resting on slender columns and supporting a pediment; on either side are square niches with
columns at the sides, beyond them fan-shaped semicircles, and at the corners vases. Behind
this there rise to the top of the battlements four panelled Doric pilasters with cornice above,
and two deep round-headed niches with figures, one on each side.

Inside the church are pilasters and a wealth of delicate relief.

Perhaps the whole may not be much more fortunate than most attempts to build up a tall composition
by piling columns one above the other, and the top part is certainly too heavy

for what comes below it. Yet the details are or were beautiful, and the portico above the door
most graceful and pleasing, though, being unfortunately on the north side, the effect is lost
of the deep shadow the sun would have thrown and the delicacy of the mouldings almost wasted.

Less important are the changes made to the north transept door. Fluted pilasters and Corinthian
columns were inserted below, a medallion with a figure cut on the tympanum, and small coupled
shafts resting on the Doric capitals of the pilasters built to uphold the entablature.

Inside the most important, as well as the most beautiful addition, was a reredos built by Dom
Jorge as his monument in the chapel of São Pedro, the small apse to the north of the high altar.

Just above the altar table--which is of stone supported on one central shaft--are three panels
filled in high relief with sculptured scenes from the life of St. Peter, the central and widest
panel representing his martyrdom, while on the uprights between them are small figures under
canopies.

The upper and larger part is arranged somewhat like a Roman triumphal arch. There are three
arches, one larger and higher in the middle, with a lower and narrower one on each side, separated
by most beautiful tall candelabrum shafts with very delicate half-Ionic capitals. In the centre,
in front of the representation of some town, probably Rome, is Our Lord bearing His Cross and
St. Peter kneeling at His feet--no doubt the well-known legend 'Domine quo vadis?' In the side
arches stand two figures with books: one is St. Paul with a sword, and the other probably St.
Peter himself. Above each of the side arches there is a small balustraded loggia, scarcely
eighteen inches high, in each of which are two figures, talking, all marvellously lifelike.
Beautiful carvings enrich the friezes everywhere, and small heads in medallions all the spandrils.
At the top, in a hollow circle upheld by carved supports, crowned and bearing an orb in His
left hand, is God the Father Himself. (Fig. 76.)

Less elaborate than the pulpit and less pictorial than the altar-pieces in the cloister of
Santa Cruz, this reredos is one of the most successful of all the French works at Coimbra,
and its beauty is enhanced by the successful lighting through a large window cut on purpose
at the side, and by the beautiful tiles--probably contemporary--with which the chapel is lined.

In front of the altar lies Dom Jorge d'Almeida, under a flat stone, bearing his arms, and this
inscription in Latin, 'Here lies Jorge d'Almeida by the goodness of the divine power bishop
and count. He lived eighty-five years, and died eight days before the Kalends of Sextillis
A.D. 1543, having held both dignities sixty-two years.'

CHAPTER XV

THE INFLUENCE OF THE FOREIGNER

Very quickly the fame of these French workers spread across the country, and they or their
pupils were employed to design tombs, altar-pieces, or chapels outside of Coimbra. Perhaps
the da Silvas, lords of Vagos, were among the very first to employ them, and in their chapel
of São Marcos, some eight or nine miles from Coimbra, more than one example of their handiwork
may still be seen.

[Sidenote: Tomb in Nossa Senhora dos Olivaes, Thomar.]

However, before visiting São Marcos mention must be made of two tombs, one in Nossa Senhora
dos Olivaes at Thomar, and one in the Graça church at Santarem. Both are exceedingly French
in design, and both were erected not long after the coming of the foreigners.

The tomb in Thomar is the older. It is that of Diogo Pinheiro, the first bishop of Funchal--which
he never visited--who died in 1525. No doubt the monument was put up soon after. It is placed
rather high on the north wall of the chancel; at the very bottom is a moulding enriched with
egg and tongue, separated by a plain frieze--crossed by a shield with the bishop's arms--from
the plinth and from the pedestals of the side shafts and their supporting mouldings. On the
plinth under a round arched recess stands a sarcophagus with a tablet in front bearing the
date A.D. 1525, while behind in an elegant shell-topped niche is a figure kneeling on a beautiful
corbel. The front of this arch is adorned with cherubs' heads, the jambs with arabesques, and
heads look out of circles in the spandrils. At the sides are Corinthian pilasters, and in front
of them beautiful candelabrum shafts. The cornice with a well-carved frieze is simple, and
in the pediment are again carved Dom Diogo's arms, surmounted by his bishop's hat.

At the ends are vase-shaped finials, and another supported by dragons rises from the pediment.
(Fig. 77.)

This monument is indeed one of the most pleasing pieces of renaissance work in existence, and
one would be tempted to attribute it to João de Castilho were it not that it is more French
than any of his work, and that in 1525 he can hardly have come back to Thomar, where the Claustro
da Micha, the first of the new additions, was only begun in 1528. It will be safer then to
attribute it to one of the Coimbra Frenchmen.

[Sidenote: Tomb in Graça, Santarem.]

The same must be said of the tomb in the Graça church at Santarem. It was built in 1532 in
honour of three men already long dead--Pero Carreiro, Gonzalo Gil Barbosa his son-in-law, and
Francisco Barbosa his grandson. The design is like that of Bishop Pinheiro's monument, omitting
all beneath the plinth, except that the back is plain, the arch elliptical, and the pediment
small and round. The coffer has a long inscription,[142] the jambs and arch are covered with
arabesques, the side shafts are taller and even more elegant than at Thomar, and in the round
pediment is a coat of arms, and on one side the head of a young man wearing a helmet, and on
the other the splendidly modelled head of an old man; though much less pleasing as a whole,
this head for excellent realism is better than anything found on the bishop's tomb.

If we cannot tell which Frenchman designed these tombs, we know the name of one who worked
for the da Silvas at São Marcos, and we can also see there the work of some of their pupils
and successors.

[Sidenote: São Marcos.]

São Marcos, which lies about two miles to the north of the road leading from Coimbra through
Tentugal to Figueira de Foz at the mouth of the Mondego, is now unfortunately much ruined.
Nothing remains complete but the church, for the monastic buildings were all burned not so
long ago by some peasantry to injure the landlord to whom they belonged, and with them perished
many a fine piece of carving.

The da Silvas had long had here a manor-house with a chapel, and in 1452 Dona Brites de Menezes,
the wife of Ayres Gomes da Silva, the fourth lord of Vagos, founded a small Jeronymite monastery.
Of her chapel, designed by

Gil de Souza, little now remains, for the chancel was rebuilt in the next century and the nave
in the seventeenth. Only the tomb of Dona Brites' second son, Fernão Telles de Menezes, still
survives, for the west door, with a cusped arch, beautifully undercut foliage, and knotted
shafts at the side, was added in 1570.

The tomb of Fernão Telles, which was erected about the year 1471, is still quite Gothic. In
the wall there opens a large pointed and cusped arch, within which at the top there hangs a
small tent which, passing through a ring, turns into a great stone curtain upheld by hairy
wild men. Inside this curtain Dom Fernão lies in armour on a tomb whose front is covered with
beautifully carved foliage, and which has a cornice of roses. On it are three coats of arms,
Dom Fernão's, those of his wife, Maria de Vilhena, and between them his and hers quartered.

Most of the tombs, five in all, are found in the chancel which was rebuilt by Ayres da Silva,
fifth lord of Vagos, the grandson of Dona Brites, in 1522 and 1523. These are, on the north
side, first, at the east end, Dona Brites herself, then her son João da Silva in the middle,
and her grandson Ayres at the west, the tombs of Ayres and his father being practically identical.
Opposite Dona Brites lies the second count of Aveiras, who died in 1672 and whose tomb is without
interest, and opposite Ayres, his son João da Silva, sixth lord of Vagos, who died in 1559.
At the east end is a great reredos given by Ayres and containing figures of himself and of
his wife Dona Guiomar de Castro, while opening from the north side of the nave is a beautiful
domed chapel built by Dona Antonia de Vilhena as a tomb-house for her husband, Diogo da Silva,
who died in 1556. In it also lies his elder brother Lourenço, seventh lord of Vagos.

The chancel, which is of two bays, one wide, and one to the east narrower, has a low vault
with many well-moulded ribs springing from large corbels, some of which are Manoelino, while
others have on them shields and figures of the renaissance. It still retains an original window
on each side, small, round-headed, with a band of beautiful renaissance carving on the splay.

Dona Brites lies on a plain tomb in front of which there is a long inscription. Above her rises
a round arch set in a square frame. Large flowers like Tudor roses are cut on the spandrils,
the ogee hood-mould is enriched with huge wonderfully undercut curly crockets, all Gothic,
but the band between the two mouldings of the arch is carved with renaissance arabesques. The
tomb of Ayres himself and that of his father João are much more elaborate. Each, lying like
Dona Brites on an altar-tomb, is clad in full armour. In front are semi-classic mouldings at
the top and bottom, and between them a tablet held by cherubs, that on Dom João's bearing a
long inscription, while Dom Ayres' has been left blank. The arches over the recumbent figures
are slightly elliptical, and like that of the foundress's tomb each is enriched by a band of
renaissance carving, but with classic mouldings outside, instead of a simple round, and with
a rich fringe of leafy cusps within. At the ends and between the tombs are square buttresses
or pilasters ornamented on each face with renaissance corbels and canopies. The background
of each recess is covered with delicate flowing leaves in very slight relief, and has in the
centre a niche, with rustic shafts and elaborate Gothic base and canopy under which stands
a figure of Our Lord holding an orb in His left hand and blessing with His right. The buttresses,
on which stand curious vase-shaped finials, are joined by a straight moulded cornice, above
which rises a rounded pediment floriated on the outer side. From the pediment there stands
out a helmet whose mantling entirely covers the flat surface, and below it hangs a shield,
charged with the da Silva arms, a lion rampant. (Fig. 78.)

Here, as in the royal tombs at Coimbra, Manoelino and renaissance forms have been used together,
but here the renaissance largely predominates, for even the cusping is not Gothic, although,
as is but natural, the general design still is after the older style. Though very elaborate,
these tombs cannot be called quite satisfactory. The figure sculpture is poor, and it is only
the arabesques which show skill in execution. Probably then it was the work not of one of the
well-known Frenchmen, but of one of their pupils.[143]

Raczynski[144] thought that here in São Marcos he had found some works of Sansovino: a battlepiece
in relief, a statue of St. Mark, and the reredos. The first two are gone, but if they were
as unlike Italian work as is the reredos, one may be sure that they were not by him. A recently
found document[145] confirms what its appearance suggests, namely, that it is French. It was
in fact the work of Mestre Nicolas, the Nicolas Chantranez who worked first at Belem and then
on the Portal da Magestade at Santa Cruz, and who carved an altar-piece in the Pena chapel
at Cintra. Though much larger in general design, it is not altogether unlike the altar-piece
in the Sé Velha. It is divided into two stories. In the lower are four divisions, with a small
tabernacle in the middle, and in each division, which has either a curly broken pediment, or
a shell at its head, are sculptured scenes from the life of St. Jerome.

The upper part contains only three divisions, one broad under an arch in the centre, and one
narrower and lower on each side. As in the cathedral, slim candelabrum shafts stand between
each division and at the ends, but the entablatures are less refined, and the sharp pediments
at the two sides are unpleasing, as is the small round one and the vases at the top. The large
central arch is filled with a very spirited carving of the 'Deposition.' In front of the three
crosses which rise behind with the thieves still hanging to the two at the sides, is a group
of people--officials on horseback on the left, and weeping women on the right. In the division
to the left kneels Ayres himself presented by St. Jerome, and in the other on the right Dona
Guiomar de Castro, his wife, presented by St. Luke. Throughout all the figure sculpture is
excellent, as good as anything at Coimbra, but compared with the reredos in the Sé Velha, the
architecture is poor in the extreme: the central division is too large, and the different levels
of the cornice, rendered necessary of course by the shape of the vault, is most unpleasing.
No one, however, can now judge of the true effect, as it has all been carefully and hideously
painted with the brightest of colours. (Fig. 79.)

Being architecturally so inferior to the Sé Velha reredos, it is scarcely possible that they
should be by the same hand, and therefore it seems likely that both the work in St. Peter's
chapel and the pulpit in Santa Cruz may have been executed by the same man, namely by João
de Ruão.[146]

[Sidenote: Pena Chapel, Cintra.]

Leaving São Marcos for a minute to finish with the works of Nicolas Chantranez, we turn to
the small chapel of Nossa Senhora da Pena, founded by Dom Manoel in 1503 as a cell of the Jeronymite
monastery at Belem. Here in 1532 his son João III. dedicated a reredos of alabaster and black
marble as a thankoffering for the birth of a son.[147]

Like Nicolas' work at São Marcos the altar piece is full of exquisite carving, more beautiful
than in his older work. In the large central niche, with its fringe of cusps, is the 'Entombment,'
where Our Lord is being laid by angels in a beautiful sarcophagus. Above this niche sit the
Virgin and Child, on the left are the Annunciation above and the Birth at Bethlehem below,
and on the right the Visit of the Magi and the Flight into Egypt. Nothing can exceed the delicacy
of these alabaster carvings or of the beautiful little reliefs that form the pradella. Many
of the little columns too are beautifully wrought, with good capitals and exquisitely worked
drums, and yet, though the separate details may be and are fine, the whole is even more unsatisfactory
than is his altar-piece at São Marcos, and one has to look closely and carefully to see its
beauties. As the one at São Marcos is spoiled by paint, this one is spoiled by the use of different-coloured
marble; besides, the different parts are even worse put together. There is no repose anywhere,
for the little columns are all different, and the bad effect is increased by the way the different
entablatures are broken out over the many projections.

[Sidenote: São Marcos.]

Interesting and even beautiful as are the tombs on the north side of the chancel of São Marcos,
the chapel dos Reis Magos is even more important historically. This chapel, as stated above,
was built by Dona Antonia de Vilhena in 1556 as a monument to her husband. Dona Antonia was
in her time noted for her devotion to her husband's memory, and for her patriotism in that
she sent her six sons to fight in Morocco, from whence three never returned. Her brother-in-law,
Lourenço da Silva, also, who lies on the east side of the same chapel, fell in Africa in the
fatal battle of Alcacer-Quebir in 1578, where Portugal lost her king and soon after her independence.

The chapel is entered from the nave by a large arch enriched in front with beautiful cherubs'
heads and wreaths of flowers, and on the under side with coffered panels. This arch springs
from a beautifully modelled entablature borne on either side by a Corinthian pilaster, panelled
and carved, and by a column fluted above, and wreathed with hanging fruits and flowers below,
while similar arches form recesses on the three remaining sides of the chapel, one--to the
north--containing the altar, and the other two the tombs of Diogo and of Lourenço da Silva.

On the nave side, outside the columns, there stands on either side--placed like the columns
on a high pedestal--a pilaster, panelled and carved with exquisite arabesques. These pilasters
have no capitals, but instead well-moulded corbels, carved with griffin heads, uphold the entablature,
and, by a happy innovation, on the projection thus formed are pedestals bearing short Corinthian
columns. These support the main entablature whose cornice and frieze are enriched, the one
with egg and tongue and with dentils, and the other with strapwork and with leaves. In the
spandrils above the arch are medallions surrounding the heads of St. Peter and of St. Paul,
St. Peter being especially expressive.

Inside, the background of each tomb recess is covered with strapwork, surrounding in one case
an open and in another a blank window, but unfortunately the reredos representing the Visit
of the Magi is gone, and its place taken by a very poor picture of Our Lady of Lourdes.

The pendentives with their cherub heads are carried by corbels in the corners, and the dome
is divided by bold ribs, themselves enriched with carving, into panels filled with strapwork.
(Fig. 80.)

This chapel then is of great interest, not only because of the real beauty of its details but
also because it was the first built of a type which was repeated more than once elsewhere,
as, for instance, at Marceana near Alemquer, on the Tagus, and in the church of Nossa Senhora
dos Anjos at Montemor-o-Velho, not far from São Marcos. Of the chapels at Montemor one at least
was built by the same family, and in another where the reredos--a very fine piece of carving--represents
a Pietà, small angels are seen to weep as they look from openings high up at the sides.

Perhaps the most successful feature of the design is the happy way in which corbels take the
place of capitals on the lower pilasters of the front. By this expedient it was possible to
keep the upper column short without having to compare its proportions with those of the pilaster
below, and also by projecting these columns to give the upper part an importance and an emphasis
it would not otherwise have had.

There is no record of who designed this or the similar chapels, but by 1556 enough time had
passed since the coming of the French for native pupils to have learned much from them. There
is in the design something which seems to show that it is not from the hand of a Frenchman,
but from that of some one who had learned much from Master Nicolas or from João de Ruão, but
who had also learned something from elsewhere. While the smaller details remain partly French,
the dome with its bold ribs suggests Italy, and it is known that Dom Manoel, and after him
Dom João, sent young men to Italy for study. In any case the result is something neither Italian
nor French.

Even more Italian is the tomb of Dona Antonia's father-in-law, João da Silva, sixth lord of
Vagos, erected in 1559 and probably by the same sculptor. João da Silva lies in armour under
a round arch carved with flowers and cherubs. In front of his tomb is a long inscription on
a tablet held by beautifully modelled boys. On each side of the arch is a Corinthian pilaster,
panelled and carved below and having at the top a shallow niche in which stand saints. On the
entablature, enriched with medallions and strapwork, is a frame supported by boys and containing
the da Silva arms. But the most interesting and beautiful part of the monument is the back,
above the effigy. Here, in the upper part, is a shallow recess flanked by corbel-carried pilasters,
and containing a relief of the Assumption of the Virgin. Now, the execution of the Virgin and
of the small angels who bear her up may not be of the best, but the character of the whole
design is quite Italian, and could only have been carved by some one who knew Italian work.
On either side of this recess are round-headed niches containing saints, while boys sit in
the spandrils above the arch.

Any one seeing this tomb will be at once struck with the Italian character of the design, especially
perhaps with the boys who hold the tablet and with those who sit in the spandrils.[148]

Even without leaving their country, Portuguese designers would already have had no great difficulty
in finding pieces of real Italian work. Not to speak of the white marble door in the old palace
of Cintra, possibly the work of Sansovino himself, with its simple mouldings and the beautiful
detail of its architrave, there exist at Evora two doorways originally belonging to the church
of São Domingos, which must either be the work of Italians or of some man who knew Italy. (Fig.
81.)

[Sidenote: Evora, São Domingos.]

Built of white marble from Estremoz and dating from about 1530, the panelled jambs have moulded
caps on which rests the arch. Like the jambs, the arch has a splay which is divided into small
panels. Above in the spandrils are ribboned circles enclosing well-carved heads. On either
side are pilasters with Corinthian capitals of the earlier Italian kind. The entablature is
moulded only, and instead of a pediment two curves lead up to a horizontal moulding supporting
a shell, and above it a cherub's head.

Such real Italian doors, which would look quite at home in Genoa, seem almost unique, but there
are many examples of work which, like the tomb and the chapel at São Marcos, seem to have been
influenced not only by the French school at Coimbra, but also by Italian work.

[Sidenote: Portalegre.]

[Sidenote: Tavira.]

[Sidenote: Lagos.]

Not very far from Evora in Portalegre, where a bishop's see was founded by Dom João III. in
1549, there is a very fine monument of this kind to a bishop of the Mello family in the seminary,
and also a doorway, while at Tavira in the Algarve the Misericordia has an interesting door,
not unlike that at Evora, but more richly ornamented by having a sculptured frieze and a band
of bold acanthus leaves joining the two capitals above the arch. There is another somewhat
similar, but less successful, in the church of São Sebastião at Lagos.

[Sidenote: Goes.]

[Sidenote: Trofa.]

Nearer Coimbra there are some fine monuments to the Silveira family at Goes not far from Louzã,
and four less interesting to the Lemos in the little parish church of Trofa near Agueda. At
Trofa there is a pair of tombs on each side of the chancel, round-arched, with pilasters and
with heads in the spandrils, and covered with arabesques. Each pair is practically alike except
that the tombs on the north side, being placed closer together leave no room for a central
pilaster and have small shafts instead of panelled jambs, and that the pair on the south have
pediments. The best feature is a figure of the founder of the chancel kneeling at prayer with
his face turned towards the high altar.

[Sidenote: Caminha.]

Even in the far north the doors of the church at Caminha show how important had been the coming
of the Frenchmen to Coimbra. They seem later than the church, but though very picturesque are
clearly the work of some one who was not yet quite familiar with renaissance forms. The south
door is the more interesting and picturesque. The arch and jambs are splayed, but there are
no capitals; heads look out of circles in the spandrils; and the splay as well as the panels
of the side pilasters are enriched with carvings which, partly perhaps owing to the granite
in which they are cut, are much less delicate than elsewhere. The Corinthian capitals of the
pilasters are distinctly clumsy, as are the mouldings, but the most interesting part of the
whole design is the frieze, which is so immensely extended as to leave room for four large
niches separated by rather clumsy shafts and containing figures of St. Mark and St. Luke in
the middle and of St. Peter and St. Paul at the ends. Above in the pediment are a Virgin and
Child with kneeling angels. Besides the innovation of the enlarged frieze, which reminds one
of a door in the Certosa near Pavia, the clumsiness of the mouldings and the comparative poorness
of the sculpture, though the figures are much better than any previously worked by native artists,
suggest that the designer and workmen were Portuguese.

The same applies to the west door, which is wider and where the capitals are of a much better
shape, though the pilasters are rather too tall. The sculpture frieze is a little wider than
usual, and instead of a pediment there is a picturesque cresting, above which are cut four
extraordinary monsters. (Fig. 82.)

[Sidenote: Moncorvo.]

A somewhat similar but much plainer door has been built against the older and round-arched
entrance of the Misericordia at Moncorvo in Traz os Montes. The parish church of the same place
begun in 1544 is both outside and in a curious mixture of Gothic and Classic. The three aisles
are of the same height with round-arched Gothic vaults, but the columns are large and round
with bases and capitals evidently copied from Roman doric, though the abacis have been made
circular.

Outside the buttresses are still Gothic in form, but the west door is of the fully developed
renaissance. The opening is

flanked by coupled columns which support an entablature on which rest four other shorter columns
separating three white marble niches. Above this is a window flanked by single columns which
carry a pediment. Though built of granite, the detail is good and the whole doorway not unpleasing.[149]

But, that it was not only such details as doors and monuments that began to show the result
of the coming of the Frenchmen is seen in the work of João de Castilho, after he first left
Thomar for Belem. There he had found Master Nicolas Chantranez already at work, and there he
learned, perhaps from him, so to change his style that by the time he returned to Thomar to
work for Dom João III. in 1528 he was able to design buildings practically free from that Gothic
spirit which is still found in his latest work at Belem. The father had been renowned for his
munificence and his splendour, the son cared more for the Church and for the suppression of
heresy. By him the Inquisition was introduced in 1536 to the gradual crushing of all independent
thought, and so by degrees to the degradation of his country. He reigned for thirty-six years,
a time of wealth and luxury, but before he died the nation had begun to suffer from this very
luxury; with all freedom of thought forbidden, with the most brave and adventurous of her sons
sailing east to the Indies or west to Brazil, most of them never to return, Portugal was ready
to fall an easy prey to Philip of Spain when in 1580 there died the old Cardinal King Henry,
last surviving son of Dom Manoel, once called the Fortunate King.

With the death of Dom Manoel, or at least with the finishing of the great work which he had
begun, the most brilliant and interesting period in the history of Portuguese architecture
comes to an end. When the younger Fernandes died seven years after his master in 1538, or when
João de Castilho saw the last vault built at Belem, Gothic, even as represented by Manoelino,
disappeared for ever, and renaissance architecture, taught by the French school at Coimbra,
or learned in Italy by those sent there by Dom Manoel, became universal, to flourish for a
time, and then to fall even lower than in any other country.

Except the Frenchmen at Coimbra no one played a greater part in this change than João de Castilho,
who, no doubt, first learned about the renaissance from Master Nicolas at Belem; Thomar also,
his own home, lies about half-way between Lisbon and Coimbra, so that he may well have visited
his brother Diogo at Santa Cruz and seen what other Frenchmen were doing there and so become
acquainted with better architects than Master Nicolas; but in any case, who ever it may have
been who taught him, he planned at Thomar, after his return there, the first buildings which
are wholly in the style of the renaissance and are not merely decorated with renaissance details.

[Sidenote: Alcobaça.]

But before following him back to Thomar, his additions to the abbey of Alcobaça must be mentioned,
as there for the last time, except in some parts of Belem, he allowed himself to follow the
older methods, though even at this early date--1518 and 1519--renaissance forms are beginning
to creep in.

On the southern side of the ambulatory one of the radiating chapels was pulled down in 1519
to form a passage, irregular in shape and roofed with a vault of many ribs. From this two doors
lead, one on the north to the sacristy, and one on the south to a chapel. Unfortunately both
sacristy and chapel have been rebuilt and now contain nothing of interest, except, in the sacristy,
some fine presses inlaid with ivory, now fast falling to pieces. The two doors are alike, and
show that João de Castilho was as able as any of his contemporaries to design a piece of extreme
realism. On the jambs is carved renaissance ornament, but nowhere else is there anything to
show that João and Nicolas had met at Belem some two years before. The head of the arch is
wavy and formed mostly of convex curves. Beyond the strip of carving there grows up on either
side a round tree, with roots and bark all shown; at the top there are some leaves for capitals,
and then each tree grows up to meet in the centre and so form a great ogee, from which grow
out many cut-off branches, all sprouting into great curly leaves.

This is realism carried to excess, and yet the leaves are so finely carved, the whole design
so compact, and the surrounding whitewashed wall with its dado of tiles so plain, that the
effect is quite good. (Fig. 83.)

The year before he had begun for Cardinal Henry, afterwards king, and then commendator of the
abbey, a second story to the great cloister of Dom Diniz. Reached by a picturesque stair on
the south side, the three-centred arches each enclose two or three smaller round arches, with
the spandrils merely pierced or sometimes cusped. The mouldings are simple but not at all classic.
The shafts which support these round arches are all carried down across the parapet through
the rope moulding at the top to the floor level, and are of three or more patterns. Those at
the jambs are plain with hollow chamfered edges, as are also a few of the others. They are,
however, mostly either twisted, having four round mouldings separated by four hollows, or else
shaped like a rather fat baluster; most of the capitals with curious volutes at the corner
are evidently borrowed from Corinthian capitals, but are quite unorthodox in their arrangement.

Though this upper cloister adds much to the picturesqueness of the whole it is not very pleasing
in itself, as the three-centred arches are often too wide and flat, and yet it is of great
interest as showing how João de Castilho was in 1518 beginning to accept renaissance forms
though still making them assume a Manoelino dress.

[Sidenote: Batalha, Santa Cruz.]

But in the door of the little parish church of Sta. Cruz at Batalha, also built by João de
Castilho, Manoelino and renaissance details are used side by side with the happiest result.
On each jamb are three round shafts and two bands of renaissance carving; of these the inner
band is carried round the broken and curved head of the opening, while the outer runs high
up to form a square framing. Of the three shafts the inner is carried round the head, the outer
round the outside of the framing, while the one in the centre divides into two, one part running
round the head, while the other forms the inner edge of the framing, and also forms a great
trefoil on the flat field above the opening. In the two corners between the trefoils and the
framing are circles enclosing shields, one charged with the Cross of the Order of Christ, the
other with the armillary sphere.

The inner side of the trefoil is cusped, crockets and finials enrich the outer moulding of
the opening, while beyond the jambs are niches, now empty. (Fig. 84.)

It is not too much to say that, except the great entrance to the Capellas Imperfeitas, this
is the most beautiful of all Manoelino doorways; in no other is the detail so refined nor has
any other so satisfactory a framing. Unfortunately the construction has not been good, so that
the upper part is now all full of cracks and gaping joints.

[Sidenote: Thomar.]

Since Dom João III. was more devoted to the Church than

to anything else he determined in 1524 to change the great Order of Christ from a body of military
knights bound, as had been the Templars, by certain vows, into a monastic order of regulars.
This necessitated great additions to the buildings at Thomar, for the knights had not been
compelled to live in common like monks.

Accordingly João de Castilho was summoned back from Belem and by 1528 had got to work.

All these additions were made to the west of the existing buildings, and to make room for them
Dom João had to buy several houses and gardens, which together formed a suburb called São Martinho,
and some of which were the property of João de Castilho, who received for them 463$000 or about
£100.[150]

These great additions, which took quite twenty-five years to build, cover an immense area,
measuring more than 300 feet long by 300 wide and containing five cloisters. Immediately to
the west of the Coro of the church, then probably scarcely finished, is the small cloister
of Sta. Barbara; to the north of this is the larger Claustro da Hospedaria, begun about 1539,
while to the south and hiding the lower part of the Coro is the splendid two-storied Claustro,
miscalled 'dos Filippes,' begun in its present form in 1557 by Diogo de Torralva some time
after de Castilho's death.

Further west are two other large cloisters, do Mixo or da Micha to the north and dos Corvos
to the south, and west of the Corvos a sort of farmyard called the Pateo dos Carrascos--that
is of the evergreen oaks, or since Carrasco also means a hangman, it may be that the executioners
of the Inquisition had their quarters there.

Between these cloisters, and dividing the three on the east from the two on the west, is an
immense corridor nearly three hundred feet long from which small cells open on each side; in
the centre it is crossed by another similar corridor stretching over one hundred and fifty
feet to the west, separating the two western cloisters, and with a small chapel to the east.

North of all the cloisters are more corridors and rooms extending eastwards almost to the Templars'
castle, but there the outer face dates mostly from the seventeenth century or later.

The first part to be begun was the Claustro da Micha, or loaf, so called from the bread distributed
there to the poor. Outside it was begun in 1528, but inside an inscription over the door says
it was begun in 1534 and finished in 1546. Being the kitchen cloister it is very plain, with
simple round-headed arches. Only the entrance door is adorned with a Corinthian column on either
side; its straight head rests on well-carved corbels, and above it is a large inscribed tablet
upheld by small boys.

Under the pavement of the cloister as well as under the Claustro dos Corvos is a great cistern.
On the south was the kitchen and the oil cellar, on the east the dispensary, and on the west
a great oven and wood-store with three large halls above, which seem to have been used by the
Inquisition.[151] The lodgings of the Dom Prior were above the cloister to the north.

Like the Claustro da Micha, the Claustro dos Corvos has plain round arches resting on round
columns and set usually in pairs with a buttress between each pair. On the south side, below,
were the cellars, finished in 1539, and above the library, on the west, various vaulted stores
with a passage above leading to the library from the dormitory.

The whole of the east side is occupied by the refectory, about 100 feet long by 30 wide. On
each of the long sides there is a pulpit, one bearing the date 1536, enriched with arabesques,
angels, and small columns. At the south end are two windows, and at the north a hatch communicating
with the kitchen.

The Claustro da Hospedaria, as its name denotes, was where strangers were lodged; like the
Claustro dos Corvos each pair of arches is divided by a buttress, and the round columns have
simple but effective capitals, in which nothing of the regular Corinthian is left but the abacus,
and a large plain leaf at each corner. Still, though plain, this cloister is very picturesque.
Its floor, like those of all the cloisters, lies deep below the level of the church, and looking
eastward from one of the cell windows the Coro and the round church are seen towering high
above the brown tile roofs of the rooms beyond the cloister and of the simple upper cloister,
which runs across the eastern walk. (Fig. 85.)

This part of the building, begun about 1539, must have been carried on during João de Castilho's
absence, as in 1541 he was sent to Mazagão on the Moroccan coast to build fortifications; there
he made a bastion 'so strong as to be able not only to resist the Shariff, but also the Turk,
so strong was it.'[152]

The small cloister of Santa Barbara is the most pleasing of all those which João de Castilho
was able to finish. In order not to hide the west front of the church its arches had to be
kept very low. They are three-centred and almost flat, while the vault is even flatter, the
bays being divided by a stone beam resting on beautifully carved brackets. The upper cloister
is not carried across the east side next the church; but in its south-west corner an opening
with a good entablature, resting on two columns with fine Corinthian capitals, leads to one
of those twisting stairs without a newel of which builders of this time were so fond. Going
up this stair one reaches the cloister of the Filippes which João did not live to carry out.

More interesting than any of these cloisters are the long dormitory passages. The walls for
about one-third of the height are lined with tiles, which with the red paving tiles were bought
for about £33 from one Aleixo Antunes. The roofs are throughout of dark panelled wood and semicircular
in shape. The only windows--except at the crossing--are at the ends of the three long arms.
There is a small round-headed window above, and below one, flat-headed, with a column in the
centre and one at each side, the window on the north end having on it the date 1541, eight
years after the chapel in the centre had been built.

On this chapel at the crossing has been expended far more ornament than on any other part of
the passages. Leading to each arm of the passage an arch, curiously enriched with narrow bands
which twice cross each other leaving diamond-shaped hollows, rests on Corinthian pilasters,
which have only four flutes, but are adorned with niches, whose elegant canopies mark the level
of the springing of the chapel vault. This vault, considerably lower than the passage arches,
is semicircular and coffered. Between it and the cornice which runs all round the square above
the passage arches is a large oblong panel, in the middle of which is a small round window.
Beautifully carved figures which, instead of having legs, end in great acanthus-leaf volutes
with dragons in the centre, hold a beautifully carved wreath round this window. In the middle
of the architrave below, a tablet, held by exquisite little winged boys, gives the date, 'Era
de 1533.' Above the cornice there rises a simple vault with a narrow round-headed window on
each side.

This carving over the chapel is one of the finest examples of renaissance work left in the
country. It is much bolder than any of the French work left at Coimbra, being in much higher
relief than was usual in the early French renaissance, and yet the figures and leaves are carved
with the utmost delicacy and refinement. (Fig. 86.)

The same delicacy characterises such small parts of the cloister dos Filippes as were built
by João de Castilho before he retired in 1551. These are now confined to two stairs leading
from the upper to the lower cloister. These stairs

are adorned with pilasters or thin columns against the walls, delicate cornices, medallions,
figures, and foliage; in one are square-headed built-up doors or doorlike spaces, with well-moulded
architraves, and always in the centre above the opening small figures are carved, in one an
exquisite little Cupid holding a torch. At the bottom of the eastern stair, which is decorated
with scenes from the life of St. Jerome and with the head of Frei Antonio of Lisbon, first
prior of the reformed order, a door led into the lower floor of the unfinished chapter-house.
On this same stair there is a date 1545, so the work was probably going on till the very end
of João's tenure of office, and fine as the present cloister is, it is a pity that he was not
able himself to finish it, for it is the chief cloister in the whole building, and on it he
would no doubt have employed all the resources of his art. (Fig. 87.)

It is not without interest to learn that, like architects of the present day, João de Castilho
often found very great difficulties in carrying out his work. Till well within the last hundred
years Portugal was an almost roadless country, and four centuries ago, as now, most of the
heavy carting was done by oxen, which are able to drag clumsy carts heavily laden up and down
the most impassable lanes. Several times does he write to the king of the difficulty of getting
oxen. On 4th March 1548 he says:

'I have written some days ago to Pero Carvalho to tell him of the want of carts, since those
which we had were away carrying stone for the works at Cardiga and at Almeirim'--a palace now
destroyed opposite Santarem--'the works of Thomar remaining without stone these three months.
And for want of a hundred cart-loads of stone which I had worked at the quarry--doors and windows--I
have not finished the students' studies'--probably in the noviciate near the Claustro da Micha.
'The studies are raised to more than half their height and in eight days' work I shall finish
them if only I had oxen, for those I had have died.

'I would ask 20$000 [about £4, 10s.] to buy five oxen, and with three which I have I could
manage the carriage of a thousand cart-loads of worked stone, besides that of which I speak
of to your Highness, and since there are no carts the men can bring nothing, even were they
given 60 reis [about 3d.] a cartload there is no one to do carting....

' ... And if your Highness will give me these oxen I shall finish the work very quickly, that
when your Highness comes here you may find something to see and have contentment of it.'

Later he again complains of transport difficulties, for the few carts there were in the town
were all being used by the Dom Prior; and in the year when he retired, 1551, he writes in despair
asking the king for 'a very strong edict [Alvará] that no one of any condition whatever might
be excused, because in this place those who have something of their own are excused by favour,
and the poor men do service, which to them seems a great aggravation and oppression. May your
Highness believe that I write this as a desperate man, since I cannot serve as I desire, and
may this provision be sent to the magistrate and judge that they may have it executed by their
officer, since the mayor [Alcaide] here is always away and never in his place.'[153]

These letters make it possible to understand how buildings in those days took such a long time
to finish, and how João de Castilho--though it was at least begun in 1545--was able to do so
little to the Claustro dos Filippes in the following six years.

The last letter also seems to show that some at least of the labour was forced.

Leaving the Claustro dos Filippes for the present, we must return to Batalha for a little,
and then mention some buildings in which the early renaissance details recall some of the work
at Thomar.

[Sidenote: Batalha.]

The younger Fernandes had died in 1528, leaving the Capellas Imperfeitas very much in the state
in which they still remain. Though so much more interested in his monastery at Thomar, Dom
João ordered João de Castilho to go on with the chapels, and in 1533 the loggia over the great
entrance door had been finished. Beautiful though it is it did not please the king, and is
not in harmony with the older work, and so nothing more was done.

In place of the large Manoelino window, which was begun on all the other seven sides, João
de Castilho here built two renaissance arches, each of two orders, of which the broader springs
from the square pilasters and the narrower from candelabrum shafts. In front there run up to
the cornice three beautiful shafts standing on high pedestals which rest

on corbels; the frieze of the cornice is carved much after the manner of the window panel in
the dormitory corridor at Thomar, and with long masks where it projects over the shafts.

Below, the carved cornice and architrave are carried across the opening as they are round the
whole octagon, but the frieze is open and filled with balusters. Behind, the whole space is
spanned by a three-centred arch, panelled like the passage arches at Thomar.

All the work is most exquisite, but it is not easy to see how the horizontal cornice was to
be brought into harmony with the higher windows intended on the other seven sides, nor does
the renaissance detail, beautiful though it is, agree very well with the exuberant Manoelino
of the rest.

With the beginning of the Claustro dos Filippes the work of João de Castilho comes to an end.
He had been actively employed for about forty years, beginning and ending at Thomar, finishing
Belem, and adding to Alcobaça, besides improving the now vanished royal palace and even fortifying
Mazagão on the Moroccan coast, where perhaps his work may still survive. In these forty years
his style went through more than one complete change. Beginning with late Gothic he was soon
influenced by the surrounding Manoelino; at Belem he first met renaissance artists, at Alcobaça
he either used Manoelino and renaissance side by side or else treated renaissance in a way
of his own, though shortly after, at Belem again, he came to use renaissance details more and
more fully. A little later at Thomar, having a free hand--for at Belem he had had to follow
out the lines laid down by Boutaca--he discarded Manoelino and Gothic alike in favour of renaissance.

In this final adoption of the renaissance he was soon followed by many others, even before
he laid down his charge at Thomar in 1551.

In most of these buildings, however, it is not so much his work at Thomar which is followed--except
in the case of cloisters--but rather the chapel of the Conceição, also at Thomar. Like it they
are free from the more exuberant details so common in France and in Spain, and yet they cannot
be called Italian.

[Sidenote: Thomar, Conceição.]

There is unfortunately no proof that the Conceição chapel is João's work; indeed the date inscribed
inside is 1572, twenty-one years after his retirement, and nineteen after his death. Still
this date is probably a mistake, and some of the detail is so like what is found in the great
convent on the hill above that probably it was really designed by him.

This small chapel stands on a projecting spur of the hill half-way down between the convent
and the town.

Inside the whole building is about sixty feet long by thirty wide, and consists of a nave with
aisles about thirty feet long, a transept the width of the central aisle but barely projecting
beyond the walls, a square choir with a chapel on each side, followed by an apse; east of the
north choir chapel is a small sacristy, and east of the south a newel-less stair--like that
in the Claustro de Sta. Barbara--leading up to the roof and down to some vestries under the
choir. Owing to the sacristy and stair the eastern part of the chancel, which is rather narrower
than the nave, is square, showing outside no signs of the apse.

The outside is very plain: Ionic pilasters at the angles support a simple cornice which runs
round the whole building; the west end and transepts have pediments with small semicircular
windows. The tile roofs are surmounted by a low square tower crowned by a flat plastered dome
at the crossing and by the domed stair turret at the south-east corner. The west door is plain
with a simple architrave. The square-headed windows have a deep splay--the wall being very
thick--their architraves as well as their cornices and pediments rest on small brackets set
not at right angles with the wall, but crooked so as to give an appearance of false perspective.

The inside is very much more pleasing, indeed it is one of the most beautiful interiors to
be found anywhere. (Fig. 88.)

On each side of the central aisle there are three Corinthian columns, with very correct proportions,
and exquisite capitals, beautifully carved if not quite orthodox. Corresponding pilasters stand
against the walls, as well as at the entrance to the choir, and at the beginning of the apse.
These and the columns support a beautifully modelled entablature, enriched only with a dentil
course. Central aisle, transepts and choir are all roofed with a larger and the side aisles
with a smaller barrel vault, divided into bays by shallow arches. In choir and transepts the
vault is coffered, but in the nave each bay is ornamented with three sets of four square panels,
set in the shape of a cross, each panel having in it another panel set diagonally to form a
diamond. At the crossing, which is crowned by a square coffered dome, the spandrils are filled
with curious winged heads, while the semi-dome of the apse is covered with narrow ribs. The
windows are exactly like those outside, but the west door has over it a very refined though
plain pediment.

So far, beyond the great refinement of the details, there has been nothing very characteristic
of João de Castilho, but when we find that the pilasters of the choir and apse, as well as
the choir and transept arches, are panelled in that very curious way--with strips crossing
each other at long intervals to form diamonds--which João employed in the passage arches in
the Thomar dormitory and in the loggia at Batalha, it would be natural enough to conclude that
this chapel is his work, and indeed the best example of what he could do with classic details.

Now under the west window of the north aisle there is a small tablet with the following inscription
in Portuguese[154]:--'This chapel was erected in A.D. 1572, but profaned in 1810 was restored
in 1848 by L. L. d'Abreu,' etc.

Of course in 1572 João de Castilho had been long dead, but the inscription was put up in 1848,
and it is quite likely that by then L. L. d'Abreu and his friends had forgotten or did not
know that even as late as the sixteenth century dates were sometimes still reckoned by the
era of Cæsar, so finding it recorded that the chapel had been built in the year 1572 they took
for granted that it was A.D. 1572, whereas it may just as well have been E.C. 1572, that is
A.D. 1534, just the very time when João de Castilho was building the dormitory in the convent
and using there the same curious panelling. Besides in 1572 this form of renaissance had long
been given up and been replaced by a heavier and more classic style brought from Italy. It
seems therefore not unreasonable to claim this as João de Castilho's work, and to see in it
one of the earliest as well as the most complete example of this form of renaissance architecture,
a form which prevailed side by side with the work of the Frenchmen and their pupils for about
fifteen years.

Now in some respects this chapel recalls some of the earlier renaissance buildings in Italy,
and yet no part of it is quite Italian, nor can it be called Spanish. The barrel vault here
and in the dormitory chapel in the convent are Italian features, but they have not been treated
exactly as was done there, or as was to be done in Portugal some fifty years later, so that
it seems more likely that João de Castilho got his knowledge of Italian work at second-hand,
perhaps from one of the men sent there by Dom Manoel, and not by having been there himself.

No other building in this style can be surely ascribed to him, and no other is quite so pleasing,
yet there are several in which refined classic detail of a similar nature is used, and one
of the best of these is the small church of the Milagre at Santarem. As for the cloisters which
are mentioned later, they have much in common with João de Castilho's work at Thomar, as, for
instance, in the Claustros da Micha, or the Claustro da Hospedaria; in the latter especially
the upper story suggests the arrangement which became so common.

This placing of a second story with horizontal architrave on the top of an arched cloister
is very common in Spain, and might have been suggested by such as are found at Lupiana or at
Alcalá de Henares,[155] but these are not divided into bays by buttresses, so it is more likely
that they were borrowed from such a cloister as that of Sta. Cruz at Coimbra, where the buttresses
run up to the roof of the upper story and where the arches of that story are almost flat.

[Sidenote: Santarem, Milagre.]

The Milagre or Miracle church at Santarem is so called because it stands near where the body
of St. Irene, martyred by the Romans at Nabantia, now Thomar, after floating down the Nabão,
the Zezere, and the Tagus, came to shore and so gave her name to Santarem.

The church is small, being about sixty-five feet long by forty wide. It has three aisles, wooden
panelled roofs, an arcade resting on Doric columns, and at the east a sort of transept followed
by an apse. The piers to the west side of this transept are made up of four pilasters, all
of different heights. The highest, the one on the west side, has a Corinthian capital and is
enriched in front by a statue under a canopy standing on a corbel upheld by a slender baluster
shaft. The second in height is plain, and supports the arch which crosses the central aisle.
The arches opening from the aisles into the transept chapel are lower still, and rest, not
on capitals, but on corbels. Like the nave arch, on their spandrels heads are carved looking
out of circles. Lowest of all--owing to the barrel vault which covers the central aisle at
the crossing--are the arches leading north and south to the chapels. They too spring from corbels
and are quite plain.

[Sidenote: Santarem, Marvilla.]

Up in the town on the top of the hill the nave of the church of the Marvilla--whose Manoelino
door and chancel have already been mentioned--is of about the same date. This nave is about
one hundred feet long by fifty-five wide, has three aisles with wooden ceilings; the arcades
of round arches with simple moulded architrave rest on the beautiful Ionic capitals of columns
over twenty-six feet high. These capitals, of Corinthian rather than of Ionic proportions,
with simple fluting instead of acanthus leaves, have curious double volutes at each angle,
and small winged heads in the middle of each side of the abacus.

Altogether the arcades are most stately, and the beauty of the church is further enhanced by
the exceptionally fine tiles with which the walls as well as the spandrels above the arches
are lined. Up to about the height of fifteen feet, above a stone bench, the tiles, blue, yellow,
and orange, are arranged in panels, two different patterns being used alternatively, with beautiful
borders, while in each spandrel towards the central aisle an Emblem of the Virgin, Tower of
Ivory, Star of the Sea, and so on, is surrounded by blue and yellow intertwining leaves. Above
these, as above the panels on the walls, the whole is covered with dark and light tiles arranged
in checks, and added as stated by a date over the chancel arch in 1617. The lower tiles are
probably of much the same date or a little earlier.

Against one of the nave columns there stands a very elegant little pulpit. It rests on the
Corinthian capital of a very bulbous baluster, is square, and has on each side four beautiful
little Corinthian columns, fluted and surrounded with large acanthus leaves at the bottom.
Almost exactly like it, but round and with balusters instead of columns, is the pulpit in the
church of Nossa Senhora dos Olivaes at Thomar. (Fig. 89.)

[Sidenote: Elvas, São Domingos.]

The most original in plan as well as in decoration of all the buildings of this time is the
church of the nunnery of São Domingos at Elvas, like nearly all nunneries in the kingdom now
fast falling to pieces. In plan it is an octagon about forty-two feet across with three apses
to the east and a smaller octagonal dome in the middle standing on eight white marble columns
with Doric capitals. The columns, the architrave below the dome, the arches of the apses and
their vaults, are all of white marble covered with exquisite carved ornament partly gilt, while
all the walls and the other vaults are lined with tiles, blue and yellow patterns on a white
ground. The abacus of each column is set diagonally to the diameter of the octagon, and between
it and the lower side of the architrave are interposed thin blocks of stone rounded at the ends.

Like the Conceicão at Thomar this too dates from near the end of Dom João's reign, having been
founded about 1550.

[Sidenote: Cintra, Penha Longa and Penha Verde.]

Capitals very like those in the nave of the Marvilla, but with a ring of leaves instead of
flutes, are found in the cloister of the church at Penha Longa near Cintra, and in the little
round chapel at Penha Verde not far off, where lies the heart of Dom João de Castro, fourth
viceroy of India. Built about 1535, it is a simple little round building with a square recess
for the altar opposite the door. Inside, the dome springs from a cornice resting on six columns
whose capitals are of the same kind.

Others nearly the same are found in the house of the Conde de São Vicente at Lisbon, only there
the volutes are replaced by winged figures, as is also the case in the arcades of the Misericordia
at Tavira, the door of which has been mentioned above.

[Sidenote: Vizeu, Cloister.]

Still more like the Marvilla capitals are those of the lower cloister of the cathedral of Vizeu.
This, the most pleasing of all the renaissance cloisters in Portugal, has four arches on each
side resting on fluted columns which though taller than usual in cloisters, have no entasis.
The capitals are exactly like those at Santarem, but being of granite are much coarser, with
roses instead of winged heads on the unmoulded abaci. At the angles two columns are placed
together and a shallow strip is carried up above them all to the cornice. Somewhere in the
lower cloister are the arms of Bishop Miguel da Silva, who is

said to have built it about 1524, but that is an impossibly early date, as even in far less
remote places such classical columns were not used till at least ten years later. Yet the cloister
must probably have been built some time before 1550. An upper unarched cloister, with an architrave
resting on simple Doric columns, was added, sede vacante, between 1720 and 1742, and greatly
increases the picturesqueness of the whole. (Fig. 90.)

[Sidenote: Lamego, Cloister.]

A similar but much lower second story was added by Bishop Manoel Noronha[156] in 1557 to the
cloister of Lamego Cathedral. The lower cloister with its round arches and eight-sided shafts
is interesting, as most of its capitals are late Gothic, some moulded, a few with leaves, though
some have been replaced by very good capitals of the Corinthian type but retaining the Gothic
abacus.[157]

[Sidenote: Coimbra, São Thomaz.]

[Sidenote: Carmo.]

[Sidenote: Cintra, Penha Longa.]

[Sidenote: Faro, São Bento.]

[Sidenote: Lorvão.]

Most, however, of the cloisters of this period do not have a continuous arcade like that of
Vizeu, but have arches set in pairs in the lower story with big buttresses between each pair.
Such is the cloister of the college of São Thomaz at Coimbra, founded in 1540, where the arches
of the lower cloister rest on Ionic capitals, while the architrave of the upper is upheld by
thin Doric columns; of the Carmo, also at Coimbra, founded in 1542, where the cloister is almost
exactly like that of São Thomaz, except that there are twice as many columns in the upper story;
of Penha Longa near Cintra, where the two stories are of equal height and the lower, with arches,
has moulded and the upper, with horizontal architrave, Ionic capitals, and of São Bento at
Faro, where the lower capitals are like those in the Marvilla, but without volutes, while the
upper are Ionic. In all these the big square buttress is carried right up to the roof of the
upper cloister, as it was also at Lorvão near Coimbra. There the arches below are much wider,
so that above the number of supports has been doubled.[158]

[Sidenote: Amarante.]

In one of the cloisters of São Gonçalvo at Amarante on the Tamega--famous for the battle on
the bridge during the French invasion--there is only one arch to each bay below, and it springs
from jambs, not from columns, and is very plain. The buttresses do not rise above the lower
cornice and have Ionic capitals, as have also the rather stout columns of the upper story.
The lower cloister is roofed with a beautiful three-centred vault with many ribs, and several
of the doors are good examples of early renaissance.

[Sidenote: Santarem, Sta. Clara.]

More like the other cloisters, but probably somewhat later in date, is that of Sta. Clara at
Santarem, fast falling to pieces. In it there are three arches, here three-centred, to each
bay, and instead of projecting buttresses wide pilasters, like the columns, Doric below, Ionic
above.

[Sidenote: Guarda, Reredos.]

On first seeing the great reredos in the cathedral of Guarda, the tendency is to attribute
it to a period but little later than the works of Master Nicolas at São Marcos or of João de
Ruão at Coimbra. But on looking closer it is seen that a good deal of the ornament--the decoration
of the pilasters and of the friezes--as well as the appearance of the figures, betray a later
date--a date perhaps as late as the end of the reign of Dom João III. (Fig. 91.)

Though the reredos is very much larger and of finer design, the figures have sufficient resemblance
to those in the chapel of the Holy Sacrament in the Sé Velha at Coimbra, put up in 1566, to
show that they must be more or less contemporary, the Guarda reredos being probably the older.[159]

Filling the whole of the east end of the apse of the Capella Mor, the structure rises in a
curve up to the level of the windows. Without the beautiful colouring of Master Vlimer's work
at Coimbra, or the charm of the reredos at Funchal, with figures distinctly inferior to those
by Master Nicolas at São Marcos, this Guarda reredos is yet a very fine piece of work, and
is indeed the only large one of its kind which still survives.

It is divided into three stories, each about ten feet high, with a half-story below resting
on a plain plinth.

Each story is divided into large square panels by pilasters or columns set pretty close together,
the topmost story having candelabrum shafts, the one below it Corinthian columns, the lowest
Doric pilasters, and the half-story below pedestals for these pilasters. Entablatures with
ornamental friezes divide each story, while at the top the centre is raised to admit of an
arch, an arrangement probably copied from João de Ruão's altar-piece.

In the half-story at the bottom are half-figures of the twelve Apostles, four under each of
the square panels at the sides, and one between each pair of pilasters.

Above is represented, on the left the Annunciation, on the right the Nativity; in the centre,
now hidden by a hideous wooden erection, there is a beautiful little tabernacle between two
angels. Between the pilasters, as between the columns above, stand large figures of prophets.

In the next story the scenes are, on the left the Magi, on the right the Presentation, and
in the centre the Assumption of the Virgin.

The whole of the top is taken up with the Story of the Crucifixion, our Lord bearing the Cross
on the left, the Crucifixion under the arch, and the Deposition on the right.

Although the whole is infinitely superior in design to anything by Master Nicolas, it must
be admitted that the sculpture is very inferior to his, and also to João de Ruão's. The best
are the Crucifixion scenes, where the grouping is better and the action freer, but everywhere
the faces are rather expressionless and the figures stiff.

As everything is painted, white for the background and an ugly yellow for the figures and detail,
it is not possible to see whether stone or terra cotta is the material; if terra cotta the
sculptor may have been a pupil of Filipe Eduard, who in the time of Dom Manoel wrought the
Last Supper in terra cotta, fragments of which still survive at Coimbra.

CHAPTER XVII

THE LATER RENAISSANCE AND THE SPANISH USURPATION

This earlier style did not, however, last very long. Even before the death of Dom João more
strictly classical forms began to come in from Italy, brought by some of the many pupils who
had been sent to study there. Once when staying at Almeirim the king had been much interested
in a model of the Colosseum brought to him by Gonçalo Bayão, whom he charged to reproduce some
of the monuments he had seen in Rome.

Whether he did reproduce them or not is unknown, but in the Claustro dos Filippes at Thomar
this new and thoroughly Italian style is seen fully developed.

[Sidenote: Thomar, Claustro dos Filippes.]

Diogo de Torralva had been nominated to direct the works in Thomar in 1554, but did nothing
to this cloister till 1557 after Dom João's death, when his widow, Dona Catharina, regent for
her grandson, Dom Sebastião, ordered him to pull down what was already built, as it was unsafe,
and to build another of the same size about one hundred and fifteen feet square, but making
the lower story rather higher.

The work must have been carried out quickly, since on the vault of the upper cloister there
is the date 1562--a date which shows that the whole must have been practically finished some
eighteen years before Philip of Spain secured the throne of Portugal, and that therefore the
cloister should rather be called after Dona Catharina, who ordered it, than after the 'Reis
Intrusos,' whose only connection with Thomar is that the first was there elected king.

Between each of the three large arches which form a side of the lower cloister stand two Roman
Doric columns of considerable size. They are placed some distance apart leaving room between
them for an opening, while another window-like opening occurs above the moulding from which
the arches

spring. In the four corners the space between the columns, as well as the entablature, is set
diagonally, leaving room in one instance for a circular stair. The cornice is enriched with
dentils and the frieze with raised squares. On the entablature more columns of about the same
height as those below, but with Ionic capitals, stand in pairs. Stairs lead up in each corner
to the flat roof, above which they rise in a short dome-bearing drum. In this upper cloister
the arches are much narrower, springing from square Ionic pilasters, two on each side, set
one behind the other, and leaving an open space beyond so that the whole takes the form of
a Venetian window. The small upper window between the columns is round instead of square, and
the cornice is carried on large corbels. In front of all the openings is a balustrade. Two
windows look south down the hillside over rich orchards and gardens, while immediately below
them a water channel, the end of a great aqueduct built under Philip I. of Portugal, II. of
Spain, by the Italian Filippo Terzi,[160] cools the air, and, overflowing, clothes the arches
with maidenhair fern. Another window opening on to the Claustro de Sta. Barbara gives a very
good view of the curious west front of the church. There is not and there probably never was
any parapet to the flat paved roof, from where one can look down on the surrounding cloisters,
and on the paved terrace before the church door where Philip was elected king in April 1580.
(Fig. 92.)

This cloister, the first example in Portugal of the matured Italian renaissance, is also, with
the exception of the church of São Vicente de Fora at Lisbon, the most successful, for all
is well proportioned, and shows that Diogo de Torralva really understood classic detail and
how to use it. He was much less successful in the chancel of Belem, while about the cathedral
which he built at Miranda de Douro it is difficult to find out anything, so remote and inaccessible
is it, except that it stands magnificently on a high rock above the river.[161]

The reigns of Dom Sebastião and of his grand-uncle, the Cardinal-King, were noted for no great
activity in building. Only at Evora, where he so long filled the position of archbishop before
succeeding to the throne, was the cardinal able to do much. The most important architectural
event in Dom Sebastião's reign was the coming of Filippo Terzi from Italy to build São Roque,
the church of the Jesuits in Lisbon, and the consequent school of architects, the Alvares,
Tinouco, Turianno, and others who were so active during the reign of Philip.

But before speaking of the work of this school some of Cardinal Henry's buildings at Evora
must be mentioned, and then the story told of how Philip succeeded in uniting the whole Peninsula
under his rule.

[Sidenote: Evora, Graça.]

A little to the south of the cathedral of Evora, and a little lower down the hill, stands the
Graça or church of the canons of St. Augustine. Begun during the reign of Dom João III., the
nave and chancel, in which there is a fine tomb, have many details which recall the Conceicão
at Thomar, such as windows set in sham perspective. But they were long in building, and the
now broken down barrel vault and the curious porch were not added till the reign of Dom Sebastião,
while the monastic buildings were finished about the same time.

This porch is most extraordinary. Below, there are in front four well-proportioned and well-designed
Doric columns; beyond them and next the outer columns are large projecting pilasters forming
buttresses, not unlike the buttresses in some of the earlier cloisters. Above the entablature,
which runs round these buttresses, there stand on the two central columns two tall Ionic semi-columns,
surmounted by an entablature and pointed pediment, and enclosing a large window set back in
sham perspective. On either side large solid square panels are filled by huge rosettes several
feet across, and above them half-pediments filled with shields reach up to the central pediment
but at a lower level. Above these pediments another raking moulding runs up supported on square
blocks, while on the top of the upper buttresses there sit figures of giant boys with globes
on their backs; winged figures also kneel on the central pediment.

It will be seen that this is one of the most extraordinary erections in the world. Though built
of granite some of the detail is quite fine, and the lower columns are well proportioned; but
the upper part is ridiculously heavy and out of keeping with the rest, and inconceivably ill-designed.
The different parts also are ill put together and look as if they had belonged to distinct
buildings designed on a totally different scale.

[Sidenote: Evora University.]

Not much need be said of the Jesuit University founded at Evora by the Cardinal in 1559 and
suppressed by the Marques de Pombal. Now partly a school and partly an orphanage, the great
hall for conferring degrees is in ruins, but the courtyard with its two ranges of galleries
still stands. The court is very large, and the galleries have round arches and white marble
columns, but is somehow wanting in interest. The church too is very poor, though the private
chapel with barrel vault and white marble dome is better, yet the whole building shows, like
the Graça porch, that classic architecture was not yet fully understood, for Diogo de Torralva
had not yet finished his cloister at Thomar, nor had Terzi begun to work in Lisbon.

When Dom João III. died in 1557 he was succeeded by his grandson Sebastião, who was then only
three years old. At first his grandmother, Dona Catharina, was regent, but she was thoroughly
Spanish, and so unpopular. For five years she withstood the intrigues of her brother-in-law,
Cardinal Henry, but at last in 1562 retired to Spain in disgust. The Cardinal then became regent,
but the country was really governed by two brothers, of whom the elder, Luis Gonçalves da Câmara,
a Jesuit, was confessor to the young king.

Between them Dom Sebastião grew up a dreamy bigot whose one ambition was to lead a crusade
against the Moors--an ambition in which popular rumour said he was encouraged by the Jesuits
at the instigation of his cousin, Philip of Spain, who would profit so much by his death.

Since the wealth of the Indies had begun to fill the royal treasury, the Cortes had not been
summoned, so there was no one able to oppose his will, when at last an expedition sailed in 1578.

At this time the country had been nearly drained of men by India and Brazil, so a large part
of the army consisted of mercenaries; peculation too had emptied the treasury, and there was
great difficulty in finding money to pay the troops.

Yet the expedition started, and landing first at Tangier afterwards moved on to Azila, which
Mulay Ahmed, a pretender to the Moorish umbrella, had handed over.

On July 29th, Dom Sebastião rashly started to march inland from Azila. The army suffered terribly
from heat and thirst, and was quite worn out before it met the reigning amir, Abd-el-Melik,
at Alcacer-Quebir, or El-Kasar-el-Kebir, 'the great castle,' on the 3rd of August.

Next morning the battle began, and though Abd-el-Melik died almost at once, the Moors, surrounding
the small Christian army, were soon victorious. Nine thousand were killed, and of the rest
all were taken prisoners except fifty. Both the Pretender and Dom Sebastião fell, and with
his death and the destruction of his army the greatness of Portugal disappeared.

For two years, till 1580, his feeble old grand-uncle the Cardinal Henry sat on the throne,
but when he died without nominating an heir none of Dom Manoel's descendants were strong enough
to oppose Philip II. of Spain. Philip was indeed a grandson of Dom Manoel through his mother
Isabel, but the duchess of Braganza, daughter of Dom Duarte, duke of Guimarães, Cardinal Henry's
youngest brother, had really a better claim.

But the spirit of the nation was changed, she dared not press her claims, and few supported
the prior of Crato, whose right was at least as good as had been that of Dom João I., and so
Philip was elected at Thomar in April 1580.

Besides losing her independence Portugal lost her trade, for Holland and England both now regarded
her as part of their great enemy, Spain, and so harried her ports and captured her treasure
ships. Brazil was nearly lost to the Dutch, who also succeeded in expelling the Portuguese
from Ceylon and from the islands of the East Indies, so that when the sixty years' captivity
was over and the Spaniards expelled, Portugal found it impossible to recover the place she
had lost.

It is then no wonder that almost before the end of the century money for building began to
fail, and that some of the churches begun then were never finished; and yet for about the first
twenty or thirty years of the Spanish occupation building went on actively, especially in Lisbon
and at Coimbra, where many churches were planned by Filippo Terzi, or by the two Alvares and
others. Filippo Terzi seems first to have been employed at Lisbon by the Jesuits in building
their church of São Roque, begun about 1570.[162]

[Sidenote: Lisbon, São Roque.]

Outside the church is as plain as possible; the front is divided into three by single Doric
pilasters set one on each side of the main door and two at each corner. Similar pilasters stand
on these, separated from them only by a shallow cornice. The main cornice is larger, but the
pediment is perfectly plain. Three windows, one with a pointed and two with round pediments,
occupy the spaces left between the upper pilasters. The inside is richer; the wooden ceiling
is painted, the shallow chancel and the side chapels vaulted with barrel vaults, of which those
in the chapels are enriched with elaborate strapwork. Above the chapels are square-headed windows,
and then a corbelled cornice. Even this is plain, and it owes most of its richness to the paintings
and to the beautiful tiles which cover part of the walls.[163]

The three other great churches which were probably also designed by Terzi are Santo Antão,
Sta. Maria do Desterro, and São Vicente de Fora.

Of these the great earthquake of 1755 almost entirely destroyed the first two and knocked down
the dome of the last.

[Sidenote: São Vicente de Fora.]

Though not the first to be built, São Vicente being the least injured may be taken before the
others. It is a large church, being altogether about 236 feet long by 75 wide, and consists
of a nave of three bays with connected chapels on each side, a transept with the fallen dome
at the crossing, a square chancel, a retro-choir for the monks about 45 feet deep behind the
chancel, and to the west a porch between two tall towers.

On the south side are two large square cloisters of no great interest with a sacristy between--in
which all the kings of the House of Braganza lie in velvet-covered coffins--and the various
monastic buildings now inhabited by the patriarch of Lisbon.

The outside is plain, except for the west front, which stands at the top of a great flight
of steps. On the west front two orders of pilasters are placed one above the other. Of these
the lower is Doric, of more slender proportions than usual, while the upper has no true capitals
beyond the projecting entablature and corbels on the frieze. Single pilasters divide the centre
of the front into three equal parts and coupled pilasters stand at the corners of the towers.
In the central part three plain arches open on to the porch, with a pedimented niche above
each. In the tower the niches are placed lower with oblong openings above and below.

Above the entablature of the lower order there are three windows in the middle flanked by Ionic
pilasters and surmounted by pediments, while in the tower are large round-headed niches with
pediments. (Fig. 93.)

The entablature of the upper order is carried straight across the whole front, with nothing
above it in the centre but a balustrading interrupted by obelisk-bearing pedestals, but at
the ends the towers rise in one more square story flanked with short Doric pilasters. Round-arched
openings for bells occur on each side, and within the crowning balustrade with its obelisks
a stone dome rises to an eight-sided domed lantern.

Like all the church, the front is built of beautiful limestone, rivalling Carrara marble in
whiteness, and seen down the narrow street which runs uphill from across the small praça the
whole building is most imposing. It would have been even more satisfactory had the central
part been a little narrower, and had there been something to mark the barrel vault within;
the omission too of the lower order, which is so much taller than the upper, would have been
an improvement, but even with these defects the design is most stately, and refreshingly free
of all the fussy over-elaboration and the fantastic piling up of pediments which soon became
too common.

But if the outside deserves such praise, the inside is worthy of far more. The great stone
barrel vault is simply coffered with square panels. The chapel arches are singularly plain,
and spring from a good moulding which projects nearly

to the face of the pilasters. Two of these stand between each chapel, and have very beautiful
capitals founded on the Doric but with a long fluted neck ornamented in front by a bunch of
crossed arrows and at the corners with acanthus leaves, and with egg and tongue carved on the
moulding below the Corinthian abacus. Of the entablature, only the frieze and architrave is
broken round the pilasters; for the cornice with its great mutules runs straight round the
whole church, supported over the chapels by carving out the triglyphs--of which there is one
over each pilaster, and two in the space between each pair of pilasters--so as to form corbels.

Only the pendentives of the dome and the panelled drum remain; the rest was replaced after
the earthquake by wooden ceiling pierced with skylights. (Fig. 94.)

Though so simple--there is no carved ornament except in the beautiful capitals--the interior
is one of the most imposing to be seen anywhere, and though not really very large gives a wonderful
impression of space and size, being in this respect one of the most successful of classic churches.
It is only necessary to compare São Vicente de Fora with the great clumsy cathedral which Herrera
had begun to build five years earlier at Valladolid to see how immensely superior Terzi was
to his Spanish contemporary. Even in his masterpiece, the church of the Escorial, Herrera did
not succeed in giving such spacious greatness, for, though half as large again, the Escorial
church is imposing rather from its stupendous weight and from the massiveness of its granite
piers than from the beauty of its proportions.

Philip took a great interest in the building of the Escorial, and also had the plans of São
Vicente submitted to him in 1590. This plan, signed by him in November 1590, was drawn by João
Nunes Tinouco, so that it is possible that Tinouco was the actual designer and not Terzi, but
Tinouco was still alive sixty years later when he published a plan of Lisbon, and so must have
been very young in 1590. It is probable, therefore, that tradition is right in assigning São
Vicente to Terzi, and even if it be actually the work of Tinouco, he has here done little but
copy what his master had already done elsewhere.

[Sidenote: Lisbon, Santo Antão.]

After São Roque the first church begun by Terzi was Santo Antão, now attached to the hospital
of São José. Begun in 1579 it was not finished till 1652, only to be destroyed by the earthquake
in 1755. As at São Vicente, the west front has a lower order of huge Doric pilasters nearly
fifty feet high. There is no porch, but three doors with poor windows above which look as if
they had been built after the earthquake.

Unfortunately, nearly all above the lower entablature is gone, but enough is left to show that
the upper order was Ionic and very short, and that the towers were to rise behind buttress-like
curves descending from the central part to two obelisks placed above the coupled corner pilasters.

The inside was almost exactly like São Vicente, but larger.

[Sidenote: Lisbon, Santa Maria do Desterro.]

Santa Maria do Desterro was begun later than either of the last two, in 1591. Unlike them the
two orders of the west front are short and of almost equal size, Doric below and Ionic above.
The arches of the porch reach up to the lower entablature, and the windows above are rather
squat; it looks as if there was to have been a third order above, but it is all gone.

The inside was of the usual pattern, except that the pilasters were not coupled between the
chapels, that they were panelled, and that above the low chapel arches there are square windows
looking into a gallery.

[Sidenote: Torreão do Paço.]

Besides these churches Terzi built for Philip a large addition to the royal palace in the shape
of a great square tower or pavilion, called the Torreão. The palace then stood to the west
of what is now called the Praça do Commercio, and the Torreão jutted out over the Tagus. It
seems to have had five windows on the longer and four on the shorter sides, to have been two
stories in height, and to have been covered by a great square dome-shaped roof, with a lantern
at the top and turrets at the corners. Pilasters stood singly between each window and in pairs
at the corners, and the windows all had pediments. Now, not a stone of it is left, as it was
in the palace square, the Terreno do Paço da Ribeira, that the earthquake was at its worst,
swallowing up the palace and overwhelming thousands of people in the waves of the river.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Sé Nova.]

Meanwhile the great Jesuit church at Coimbra, now the Sé Nova or new cathedral, had been gradually
rising. Founded by Dom João III. in 1552, and dedicated to the Onze mil Virgems, it cannot
have been begun in its present form till much later, till about 1580, while the main, or south,
front seems even later still.[164]

Inside, the church consists of a nave of four bays with side chapels--in one of which there
is a beautiful Manoelino font--transepts and chancel with a drumless dome over the crossing.
In some respects the likeness to São Vicente is very considerable; there are coupled Doric
pilasters between the chapels, the barrel vault is coffered, and the chapel arches are extremely
plain. But here the likeness ends. The pilasters are panelled and have very simple moulded
capitals; the entablature is quite ordinary, without triglyphs or mutules, and is broken round
each pair of pilasters; the coffers on the vault are very deep, and are scarcely moulded; and,
above all, the proportions are quite different as the nave is too wide for its height, and
the drum is terribly needed to lift up the dome. In short, the architect seems to have copied
the dispositions of Santo Antão and has done his best to spoil them, and yet he has at the
same time succeeded in making the interior look large, though with an almost Herrera-like clumsiness.

The south front is even more like Santo Antão. As there, three doors take the place of the
porch, and the only difference below is that each Doric pilaster is flanked by half pilasters.
Above the entablature the front breaks out into a wild up-piling of various pediments, but
even here the likeness to Santo Antão is preserved, in that a great curve comes down from the
outer Ionic pilasters of the central part, to end, however, not in obelisks, but in a great
volute: the small towers too are set much further back. Above, as below, the central part is
divided into three. Of these the two outer, flanked by Ionic pilasters on pedestals, are finished
off above with curved pediments broken to admit of obelisks. The part between these has a large
window below, a huge coat of arms above, and rises high above the sides to a pediment so arranged
that while the lower mouldings form an angle the upper form a curve on which stand two finials
and a huge cross. (Fig. 95.)

[Sidenote: Oporto, Collegio Novo.]

Very soon this fantastic way of piling up pieces of pediment and of entablature became only
too popular, being copied for instance in the Collegio Novo at Oporto, where, however, the
design is not quite so bad as the towers are brought forward and are carried up considerably
higher. But apart from this horrid misuse of classic details the greatest fault of the façade
at Coimbra is the disproportionate size of some of the details; the obelisks and the cherubs'
heads on which they stand, the statues at the ends, and the central cross, and above all the
colossal acanthus leaves in the great scrolls are of such a size as entirely to dwarf all the rest.

From what remains of the front of Santo Antão, it looks as if it and the front of the Sé Velha
had been very much alike. Santo Antão was not quite finished till 1652, so that it is probable
that the upper part of the west front dates from the seventeenth century, long after Terzi's
death, and that the Sé Nova at Coimbra was finished about the same time, and perhaps copied
from it.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Misericordia.]

But it was not only Terzi's churches which were copied at Coimbra. While the Sé Nova, then,
and for nearly two hundred years more, the church of the Jesuits, was still being built, the
architect of the chief pateo of the Misericordia took Diogo de Torralva's cloister at Thomar
as his model.

It was in the year 1590 that Cardinal Affonso de Castello Branco began to build the headquarters
of the Misericordia of Coimbra, founded in 1500 as a simple confraternity. The various offices
of the institution, including a church, the halls whose ceilings have been already mentioned,
and hospital dormitories--all now turned into an orphanage--are built round two courtyards,
one only of which calls for special notice, for nearly everything else has been rebuilt or
altered. In this court or cloister, the plan of the Claustro dos Filippes has been followed
in that there are three wide arches on each side, and between them--but not in the corners,
and further apart than at Thomar--a pair of columns. In this case the space occupied by one
arch is scarcely wider than that occupied by the two fluted Doric columns and the square-headed
openings between them. Another change is that the complete entablature with triglyphs and metopes
is only found above the columns, for the arches rise too high to leave room for more than the
cornice. (Fig. 96.)

The upper story is quite different, for it has only square-headed windows, though the line
of the columns is carried up by slender and short Ionic columns; a sloping tile roof rests
immediately on the upper cornice, above which rise small obelisks placed over the columns.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Episcopal Palace.]

At about the same time the Cardinal built a long loggia on the west side of the entrance court
of his palace at Coimbra. The hill on which the palace is built being extremely

steep, an immense retaining wall, some fifty or sixty feet high, bounds the courtyard on the
west, and it is on the top of this wall that the loggia is built forming a covered way two
stories in height and uniting the Manoelino palace on the north with some offices which bound
the yard on the south. This covered way is formed by two rows of seven arches, each resting
on Doric columns, with a balustrading between the outer columns on the top of the great wall.
The ceiling is of wood and forms the floor of the upper story, where the columns are Ionic
and support a continuous architrave. The whole is quite simple and unadorned, but at the same
time singularly picturesque, since the view through the arches, over the old cathedral and
the steeply descending town, down to the convent of Santa Clara and the wooded hills beyond
the Mondego, is most beautiful; besides, the courtyard itself is not without interest. In the
centre stands a fountain, and on the south side a stair, carried on a flying half-arch, leads
up to a small porch whose steep pointed roof rests on two walls, and on one small column.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Sé Velha Sacristy.]

The same bishop also built the sacristy of the old cathedral. Entered by a passage from the
south transept, and built across the back of the apse, it is an oblong room with coffered barrel
vault, lit by a large semicircular window at the north end. The cornice, of which the frieze
is adorned with eight masks, rests on corbels. On a black-and-white marble lavatory is the
date 1593 and the Cardinal's arms. The two ends are divided into three tiled panels by Doric
columns, and on the longer sides are presses.

Altogether it is very like the sacristy of Santa Cruz built some thirty years later, but plainer.

By 1590 or so several Portuguese followers of Terzi had begun to build churches, founded on
his work, but in some respects less like than is the Sé Nova at Coimbra. Such churches are
best seen at Coimbra, where many were built, all now more or less deserted and turned to base
uses. Three at least of these stand on either side of the long Rua Sophia which leads northwards
from the town.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, São Domingos.]

The oldest seems to be the church of São Domingos, founded by the dukes of Aveiro, but never
finished. Only the chancel with its flanking chapels and the transept have been built. Two
of the churches at Lisbon and the Sé Nova of Coimbra are noted for their extremely long Doric
pilasters. Here, in the chancel the pilasters and the half columns in the transept are Ionic,
and even more disproportionately tall. The architrave is unadorned, the frieze has corbels
set in pairs, and between the pairs curious shields and strapwork, and the cornice is enriched
with dentils, egg and tongue and modillions. Most elaborate of all is the barrel vault, where
each coffer is filled with round or square panels surrounded with strapwork.

This vault and the cornice were probably not finished till well on in the seventeenth century,
for on the lower, and probably earlier vaults, of the side chapels the ornamentation is much
finer and more delicate.

The transepts were to have been covered with groined vaults of which only the springing has
been built. In the north transept and in one of the chapels there still stand great stone reredoses
once much gilt, but now all broken and dusty and almost hidden behind the diligences and cabs
with which the church is filled. The great fault in São Domingos is the use of the same order
both for the tall pilasters in the chancel, and for the shorter ones in the side chapels; so
that the taller, which are twice as long and of about the same diameter, are ridiculously lanky
and thin.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Carmo.]

Almost opposite São Domingos is the church of the Carmo, begun by Frey Amador Arraes, bishop
of Portalegre about 1597. The church is an oblong hall about 135 feet long, including the chancel,
by nearly 40 wide, roofed with a coffered barrel vault. On each side of the nave are two rectangular
and one semicircular chapel; the vaults of the chapel are beautifully enriched with sunk panels
of various shapes. The great reredos covers the whole east wall with two stories of coupled
columns, niches and painted panels.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Graça.]

Almost exactly the same is the Graça church next door, both very plain and almost devoid of
interest outside.

[Sidenote: São Bento.]

Equally plain is the unfinished front of the church of São Bento up on the hill near the botanical
gardens. It was designed by Baltazar Alvares for Dom Diogo de Murça, rector of the University
in 1600, but not consecrated till thirty-four years later. The church, which inside is about
164 feet long, consists of a nave with side chapels, measuring 60 feet by about 35, a transept
of the same width, and a square chancel. Besides there is a deep porch in front between two
oblong towers, which have never been carried up above the roof.

The porch is entered by three arches, one in the middle wider and higher than the others. Above
are three niches with shell heads, and then three windows, two oblong and one round, all set
in rectangular frames. At the sides there are broad pilasters below, with the usual lanky Doric
pilasters above reaching to the main cornice, above which there now rises only an unfinished
gable end. The inside is much more pleasing. The barrel vaults of the chapels are beautifully
panelled and enriched with egg and tongue; between each, two pilasters rise only to the moulding
from which the chapel arches spring, and support smaller pilasters with a niche between. In
the spandrels of the arches are rather badly carved angels holding shields, and on the arches
themselves, as at São Marcos, are cherubs' heads. A plain entablature runs along immediately
above these arches, and from it to the main cornice, the walls, covered with blue and white
tiles, are perfectly blank, broken only by square-headed windows. Only at the crossing do pilasters
run up to the vault, and they are of the usual attenuated Doric form. As usual the roof is
covered with plain coffers, as is also the drumless dome.

This is very like the Carmo and the Graça, which repeat the fault of leaving a blank tiled
wall above the chapels, and it is quite possible that they too may have been built by Alvares;
the plan is evidently founded on that of one of Terzi's churches, as São Vicente, or on that
of the Sé Nova, but though some of the detail is charming there is a want of unity between
the upper and lower parts which is found in none of Terzi's work, nor even in the heavier Sé
Nova.[165]

[Sidenote: Lisbon, São Bento.]

Baltazar Alvares seems to have been specially employed by the order of St. Benedict, for not
only did he build their monasteries at Coimbra but also São Bento, now the Cortes in Lisbon,
as well as São Bento da Victoria at Oporto, his greatest and most successful work.

[Sidenote: Oporto, São Bento.]

The plan is practically the same as that of São Bento at Coimbra, but larger. Here, however,
there are no windows over the chapel arches, nor any dome at the crossing. Built of grey granite,
a certain heaviness seems suitable enough, and the great coffered vault is not without grandeur,
while the gloom of the inside is lit up by huge carved and gilt altar-pieces and by the elaborate
stalls in the choir gallery.

CHAPTER XVIII

OTHER BUILDINGS OF THE LATER RENAISSANCE, TILL THE EXPULSION OF THE SPANIARDS

In the last chapter the most important works of Terzi and of his pupils have been described,
and it is now necessary to go back and tell of various buildings which do not conform to his
plan of a great barrel-vaulted nave with flanking chapels, though the designers of some of
these buildings have copied such peculiarities as the tall and narrow pilasters of which his
school was so fond, and which, as will be seen, ultimately degenerated into mere pilaster strips.

[Sidenote: Vianna do Castello, Misericordia.]

But before speaking of the basilican and other churches of this time, the Misericordia at Vianna
do Castello must be described.[166]

The Misericordia of Vianna stands on the north side of the chief square of the town, and was
built in 1589 by one João Lopez, whose father had designed the beautiful fountain which stands
near by.

It is a building of very considerable interest, as there seems to be nothing else like it in
the country. The church of the Misericordia, a much older building ruined by later alteration,
is now only remarkable for the fine blue and white tile decoration with which its walls are
covered. Just to the west of it, and at the corner of the broad street in which is a fine Manoelino
house belonging to the Visconde de Carreira, stands the building designed by Lopez. The front
towards the street is plain, but that overlooking the square highly decorated.

At the two corners are broad rusticated bands which run up uninterrupted to the cornice; between
them the front is divided into three stories of open loggias. Of these the lowest has five
round arches resting on Ionic columns; in

the second, on a solid parapet, stand four whole and two half 'terms' or atlantes which support
an entablature with wreath-enriched frieze; corbels above the heads of the figures cross the
frieze, and others above them the low blocking course, and on them are other terms supporting
the main cornice, which is not of great projection. A simple pediment rises above the four
central figures, surmounted by a crucifix and containing a carving of a sun on a strapwork
shield. (Fig. 97.)

The whole is of granite and the figures and mouldings are distinctly rude, and yet it is eminently
picturesque and original, and shows that Lopez was a skilled designer if but a poor sculptor.

[Sidenote: Beja, São Thiago.]

Coming now to the basilican churches. That of São Thiago at Beja was begun in 1590 by Jorge
Rodrigues for Archbishop Theotonio of Evora. It has a nave and aisles of six bays covered with
groined vaults resting on Doric columns, a transept and three shallow rectangular chapels to
the east. The clerestory windows are round.

[Sidenote: Azeitão, São Simão.]

Much the same plan had been followed a little earlier by Affonso de Albuquerque, son of the
great viceroy of India, when about 1570 he built the church of São Simão close to his country
house of Bacalhôa, at Azeitão not far from Setubal. São Simão is a small church with nave and
aisles of five bays, the latter only being vaulted, with arcades resting on Doric columns;
at first there was a tower at each corner, but they fell in 1755, and only one has been rebuilt.
Most noticeable in the church are the very fine tiles put up in 1648, with saintly figures
over each arch. They are practically the same as those in the parish church of Alvito.

[Sidenote: Evora, Cartuxa.]

Another basilican church of this date is that of the Cartuxa or Charter House,[167] founded
by the same Archbishop Theotonio in 1587, a few miles out of Evora. Only the west front, built
about 1594 of black and white marble, deserves mention. Below there is a porch, spreading beyond
the church, and arranged exactly like the lower Claustro dos Filippes at Thomar, with round
arches separated by two Doric columns on pedestals, but with a continuous entablature carried
above the arches on large corbelled keystones. Behind rises the front in two stories. The lower
has three windows, square-headed and separated by Ionic columns, two on each side, with niches
between. Single Ionic columns also stand at the outer angles of the aisles. In the upper story
the central part is carried up to a pediment by Corinthian columns resting on the Ionic below;
between them is a large statued niche surrounded by panels.

Unfortunately the simplicity of the design is spoilt by the broken and curly volutes which
sprawl across the aisles, by ugly finials at the corners, and by a rather clumsy balustrading
to the porch.

[Sidenote: Beja, Misericordia.]

The interior of the Misericordia at Beja, a square, divided into nine smaller vaulted squares
by arches resting on fine Corinthian columns, with altar recesses beyond, looks as if it belonged
to the time of Dom João III., but if so the front must have been added later. This is very
simple, but at the same time strong and unique. The triple division inside is marked by three
great rusticated Doric pilasters on which rest a simple entablature and parapet. Between are
three round arches, enclosing three doors of which the central has a pointed pediment, while
over the others a small round window lights the interior.

[Sidenote: Oporto, Nossa Senhora da Serra do Pilar.]

But by far the most original of all the buildings of this later renaissance is the monastery
of Nossa Senhora da Serra do Pilar in Villa Nova de Gaya, the suburb of Oporto which lies south
of the Douro. Standing on a high granite knoll, which rises some fifty feet above the country
to the south, and descends by an abrupt precipice on the north to the deep-flowing river, here
some two hundred yards wide, and running in a narrow gorge, the monastery and its hill have
more than once played an important part in history. From there Wellington, in 1809, was able
to reconnoitre the French position across the river while his army lay hidden behind the rocks;
and it was from a creek just a little to the east that the first barges started for the north
bank with the men who seized the unfinished seminary and held it till enough were across to
make Soult see he must retreat or be cut off. Later, in 1832, the convent, defended for Queen
Maria da Gloria, was much knocked about by the besieging army of Dom Miguel.

The Augustinians had begun to build on the hill in 1540, but none of the present monastery
can be earlier than the seventeenth century, the date 1602 being found in the cloister.

The plan of the whole building is most unusual and original: the nave is a circle some seventy-two
feet in diameter, surmounted by a dome, and surrounded by eight shallow chapels, of which one
contains the entrance and another is prolonged to form a narrow chancel. This chancel leads
to a larger square choir behind the high altar, and east of it is a round cloister sixty-five
feet across. The various monastic buildings are grouped round the choir and cloister, leaving
the round nave standing free. The outside of the circle is two stories in height, divided by
a plain cornice carried round the pilasters which mark the recessed chapels within. The face
of the wall above this cornice is set a little back, and the pilaster strips are carried up
a short distance to form a kind of pedestal, and are then set back with a volute and obelisk
masking the offset. The main cornice has two large corbels to each bay, and carries a picturesque
balustrading within which rises a tile roof covering the dome and crowned by a small lantern
at the top. The west door has two Ionic columns on each side; a curious niche with corbelled
sides rises above it to the lower cornice; and the church is lit by a square-headed window
pierced through the upper part of each bay. Only the pilasters, cornices, door and window dressings
are of granite ashlar, all the rest being of rubble plastered and whitewashed.

Now the eucalyptus-trees planted round the church have grown so tall that only the parapet
can be seen rising above the tree-tops.

Though much of the detail of the outside is far from being classical or correct, the whole
is well proportioned and well put together, but the same cannot be said of the inside. Pilasters
of inordinate height have been seen in some of the Lisbon churches, but compared with these
which here stand in couples between the chapels they are short and well proportioned. These
pilasters, which are quite seventeen diameters high, have for capitals coarse copies of those
in São Vicente de Fora in Lisbon. In São Vicente the cornice was carried on corbels crossing
the frieze, and so was continuous and unbroken. Here all the lower mouldings of the cornice
are carried round the corbels and the pilasters so that only the two upper are continuous,
an arrangement which is anything but an improvement. Another unpleasing feature are the three
niches which, with hideous painted figures, are placed one above the other between the pilasters.
The chancel arch reaches up to the main cornice, but those of the door and chapel recesses
are low enough to leave room for the windows. The dome is divided into panels of various shapes
by broad flat ribs with coarse mouldings. The chancel and choir beyond have barrel vaults divided
into simple square panels.

The church then, though interesting from its plan, is--inside especially--remarkably unpleasing,
though it is perhaps only fair to attribute a considerable part of this disagreeable effect
to the state of decay into which it has fallen--a state which has only advanced far enough
to be squalid and dirty without being in the least picturesque. Far more pleasing than the
church is the round cloister behind. In it the thirty-six Ionic columns are much better proportioned,
and the capitals better carved; on the cornice stands an attic, rendered necessary by the barrel
vault, heavy indeed, but not too heavy for the columns below. This attic is panelled, and on
it stand obelisk-bearing pedestals, one above each column, and between them pediments of strapwork.
(Fig. 98.)

Had this cloister been square it would have been in no way very remarkable, but its round shape
as well as the fig-trees that now grow in the garth, and the many plants which sprout from
joints in the cornice, make it one of the most picturesque buildings in the country. The rest
of the monastic buildings have been in ruins since the siege of 1832.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Santa Cruz Sacristy.]

The sacristy of Santa Cruz at Coimbra must have been begun before Nossa Senhora da Serra had
been finished. Though so much later--for it is dated 1622--the architect of this sacristy has
followed much more closely the good Italian forms introduced by Terzi. Like that of the Sé
Velha, the sacristy of Santa Cruz is a rectangular building, and measures about 52 feet long
by 26 wide; each of the longer sides is divided into three bays by Doric pilasters which have
good capitals, but are themselves cut up into many small panels. The cornice is partly carried
on corbels as in the Serra church, but here the effect is much better. There are large semicircular
windows, divided into three lights at each end, and

the barrel vault is covered with deep eight-sided coffers. One curious feature is the way the
pilasters in the north-east corner are carried on corbels, so as to leave room for two doors,
one of which leads into the chapter-house behind the chancel. (Fig. 99.)

[Sidenote: Lisbon, Santa Engracia.]

Twenty years later was begun the church of Santa Engracia in Lisbon. It was planned on a great
scale; a vast dome in the centre surrounded by four equal apses, and by four square towers.
It has never been finished, and now only rises to the level of the main cornice; but had the
dome been built it would undoubtedly have been one of the very finest of the renaissance buildings
in the country.

Like the Serra church it is, outside, two stories in height having Doric pilasters below--coupled
at the angles of the towers--and Ionic above. In the western apse, the pilasters are replaced
by tall detached Doric columns, and the Ionic pilasters above by buttresses which grow out
of voluted curves. Large, simply moulded windows are placed between the upper pilasters, with
smaller blank windows above them, while in the western apse arches with niches set between
pediment-bearing pilasters lead into the church.

Here, in Santa Engracia, is a church designed in the simplest and most severe classic form,
and absolutely free of all the fantastic misuse of fragments of classic detail which had by
that time become so common, and which characterise such fronts as those of the Sé Nova at Coimbra
or the Collegio Novo at Oporto. The niches over the entrance arches are severe but well designed,
as are the windows in the towers and all the mouldings. Perhaps the only fault of the detail
is that the Doric pilasters and columns are too tall.

Now in its unfinished state the whole is heavy and clumsy, but at the same time imposing and
stately from its great size; but it is scarcely fair to judge so unfinished a building, which
would have been very different had its dome and four encompassing towers risen high above the
surrounding apses and the red roofs of the houses which climb steeply up the hillside.

[Sidenote: Coimbra, Santa Clara.]

The new convent of Santa Clara at Coimbra was begun about the same time--in 1640--on the hillside
overlooking the Mondego and the old church which the stream has almost buried; and, more fortunate
than Santa Engracia, it has been finished, but unlike it is a building of little interest.

The church is a rectangle with huge Doric pilasters on either side supporting a heavy coffered
roof. There are no aisles, but shallow altar recesses with square-headed windows above. The
chancel at the south end is like the nave but narrower; the two-storied nuns' choir is to the
north. As the convent is still occupied it cannot be visited, but contains the tomb of St.
Isabel, brought from the old church, in the lower choir, and her silver shrine in the upper.
Except for the cloister, which, designed after the manner of the Claustro dos Filippes at Thomar,
has coupled Doric columns between the arches, and above, niches flanked by Ionic columns between
square windows, the rest of the nunnery is even heavier and more barrack-like than the church.
Indeed almost the only interest of the church is the use of the huge Doric pilasters, since
from that time onward such pilasters, usually as clumsy and as large, are found in almost every
church.

This fondness for Doric is probably due to the influence of Terzi, who seems to have preferred
it to all the other orders, though he always gave his pilasters a beautiful and intricate capital.
In any case from about 1580 onwards scarcely any other order on a large scale is used either
inside or outside, and by 1640 it had grown to the ugly size used in Santa Clara and in nearly
all later buildings, the only real exception being perhaps in the work of the German who designed
Mafra and rebuilt the Capella Mor at Evora. Such pilasters are found forming piers in the church
built about 1600 to be the cathedral of Leiria, in the west front of the cathedral of Portalegre,
where they are piled above each other in three stories, huge and tall below, short and thinner
above, and in endless churches all over the country. Later still they degenerated into mere
angle strips, as in the cathedral of Angra do Heroismo in the Azores and elsewhere.

Such a building as Santa Engracia is the real ending of Architecture in Portugal, and its unfinished
state is typical of the poverty which had overtaken the country during the Spanish usurpation,
when robbed of her commerce by Holland and by England, united against her will to a decaying
power, she was unable to finish her last great work, while such buildings as she did herself
finish--for it must not be forgotten that Mafra was designed by a foreigner--show a meanness
of invention and design scarcely to be equalled in any other land, a strange contrast to the
exuberance of fancy lavished on the buildings of a happier age.

CHAPTER XIX

THE RESTORATION AND THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY

When elected at Thomar in 1580, Philip II. of Spain had sworn to govern Portugal only through
Portuguese ministers, a promise which he seems to have kept. He was fully alive to the importance
of commanding the mouth of the Tagus and the splendid harbour of Lisbon, and had he fixed his
capital there instead of at Madrid it is quite possible that the two countries might have remained
united.

For sixty years the people endured the ever-growing oppression and misgovernment. The duque
de Lerma, minister to Philip III., or II. of Portugal, and still more the Conde duque de Olivares
under Philip IV., treated Portugal as if it were a conquered province.

In 1640, the very year in which Santa Engracia was begun, the regent was Margaret of Savoy,
whose ministers, with hardly an exception, were Spaniards.

It will be remembered that when Philip II. was elected in 1580, Dona Catharina, duchess of
Braganza and daughter of Dom Manoel's sixth son, Duarte, duke of Guimarães, had been the real
heir to the throne of her uncle, the Cardinal King. Her Philip had bought off by a promise
of the sovereignty of Brazil, a promise which he never kept, and now in 1640 her grandson Dom
João, eighth duke of Braganza and direct descendant of Affonso, a bastard son of Dom João I.,
had succeeded to all her rights.

He was an unambitious and weak man, fond only of hunting and music, so Olivares had thought
it safe to restore to him his ancestral lands; and to bind him still closer to Spain had given
him a Spanish wife, Luisa Guzman, daughter of the duke of Medina Sidonia. Matters, however,
turned out very differently from what he had expected. A gypsy had once told Dona Luisa that
she would be a queen, and a queen she was determined to be. With difficulty she persuaded her
husband to become the nominal head of the conspiracy for the expulsion of the Spaniards, and
on the 1st of December 1640 the first blow was struck by the capture of the regent and her
ministers in the palace at Lisbon. Next day, December 2nd, the duke of Braganza was saluted
as King Dom João IV. at Villa Viçosa, his country home beyond Evora.

The moment of the revolution was well chosen, for Spain was at that time struggling with a
revolt which had broken out in Cataluña, and so was unable to send any large force to crush
Dom João. All the Indian and African colonies at once drove out the Spaniards, and in Brazil
the Dutch garrisons which had been established there by Count Maurice of Nassau were soon expelled.

Though a victory was soon gained over the Spaniards at Montijo, the war dragged on for twenty-eight
years, and it was only some years after Don John of Austria[168] had been defeated at Almeixial
by Schomberg (who afterwards took service under William of Orange) that peace was finally made
in 1668. Portugal then ceded Ceuta, and Spain acknowledged the independence of the revolted
kingdom, and granted to its sovereign the title of Majesty.

It is no great wonder, then, that with such a long-continued war and an exhausted treasury
a building like Santa Engracia should have remained unfinished, and it would have been well
for the architecture of the country had this state of poverty continued, for then far more
old buildings would have survived unaltered and unspoiled.

Unfortunately by the end of the seventeenth century trade had revived, and the discovery of
diamonds and of gold in Brazil had again brought much wealth to the king.

Of the innumerable churches and palaces built during the eighteenth century scarcely any are
worthy of mention, for perhaps the great convent palace of Mafra and the Capella Mor of the
Sé at Evora are the only exceptions.

In the early years of that century King João V. made a vow that if a son was born to him, he
would, on the site of the poorest monastery in the country, build the largest and the richest.
At the same time anxious to emulate the glories of the Escorial, he determined that his building
should contain a palace as well as a monastery--indeed it may almost be said to contain two
palaces, one for the king on the south, and one on the north for the queen.

[Sidenote: Mafra.]

A son was born, and the poorest monastery in the kingdom was found at Mafra, where a few Franciscans
lived in some miserable buildings. Having found his site, King João had next to find an architect
able to carry out his great scheme, and so low had native talent fallen, that the architect
chosen was a foreigner, Frederic Ludovici or Ludwig, a German.

The first stone of the vast building was laid in 1717, and the church was dedicated thirteen
years later, in 1730.[169]

The whole building may be divided into two main parts. One to the east, measuring some 560
feet by 350, and built round a large square courtyard, was devoted to the friars, and contained
the convent entrance, the refectory, chapter-house, kitchen, and cells for two hundred and
eighty brothers, as well as a vast library on the first floor.

The other and more extensive part to the west comprises the king's apartments on the south
side, the queen's on the north, and between them the church.

It is not without interest to compare the plan of this palace or monastery with the more famous
Escorial. Both cover almost exactly the same area,[170] but while in the Escorial the church
is thrust back at the end of a vast patio, here it is brought forward to the very front. There
the royal palace occupies only a comparatively small area in the north-west corner of the site,
and the monastic part the whole lying south of the entrance patio and of the church; here the
monastic part is thrust back almost out of sight, and the palace stretches all along the west
front except where it is interrupted in the middle by the church.

Indeed the two buildings differ from one another much as did the characters of their builders.
The gloomy fanaticism of Philip of Spain is exemplified by the preponderance of the monastic
buildings no less than by his own small dark bed-closet opening only to the church close to
the high altar. João V., pleasure-loving and luxurious, pushed the friars to the back, and
made his own and the queen's rooms the most prominent part of the whole building, and one cannot
but feel that, though a monastery had to be built to fulfil a vow, the king was actuated not
so much by religious zeal as by an ostentatious megalomania which led him to try and surpass
the size of the Escorial.

To take the plan rather more in detail. The west front, about 740 feet long, is flanked by
huge square projecting pavilions. The king's and the queen's apartments are each entered by
rather low and insignificant doorways in the middle of the long straight blocks which join
these pavilions to the church. These doors lead under the palace to large square courtyards,
one on each side of the church, and forming on the ground floor a cloister with a well-designed
arcading of round arches, separated by Roman Doric shafts. The king's and the queen's blocks
are practically identical, except that in the king's a great oval hall called the Sala dos
actos takes the place of some smaller rooms between the cloister and the outer wall.

Between these blocks stands the church reached by a great flight of steps. It has a nave and
aisles of three large and one small bay, a dome at the crossing, and transepts and chancel
ending in apses. In front, flanking towers projecting beyond the aisles are united by a long
entrance porch.

Between the secular and the monastic parts a great corridor runs north and south, and immediately
beyond it a range of great halls, including the refectory at the north end and the chapter-house
at the south. Further east the great central court with its surrounding cells divides the monastic
entrance and great stair from such domestic buildings as the kitchen, the bakery, and the lavatory.
Four stories of cells occupy the whole east side.

Though some parts of the palace and monastery such as the two entrance courts, the library,
and the interior of the church, may be better than might have been expected from the date,
it is quite impossible to speak at all highly of the building as a whole.

It is nearly all of the same height with flat paved roofs; indeed the only breaks are the corner
pavilions and the towers and dome of the church.

The west side consists of two monotonous blocks, one on each side of the church, with three
stories of windows. At either end is a great square projecting mass, rusticated on the lowest
floor, with short pilaster strips between the windows on the first, and Corinthian pilasters
on the second. The poor cornice is surmounted by a low attic, within which rises a hideous
ogee plastered roof. (Fig. 100.)

The church in the centre loses much by not rising above the rest of the front, and the two
towers, though graceful enough in outline, are poor in detail, and are finished off with a
very ugly combination of hollow curves and bulbous domes.

The centre dome, too, is very poor in outline with a drum and lantern far too tall for its
size; though of course, had the drum been of a better proportion, it would hardly have shown
above the palace roof.

Still more monotonous are the other sides with endless rows of windows set in a pink plastered
wall.

Very different is the outline of the Escorial, whose very plainness and want of detail suits
well the rugged mountain side in which it is set. The main front with its high corner towers
and their steep slate roofs, and with its high centre-piece, is far more impressive, and the
mere reiteration of its endless featureless windows gives the Escorial an appearance of size
quite wanting to Mafra. Above all the great church with massive dome and towers rises high
above all the rest, and gives the whole a sense of unity and completeness which the smaller
church of Mafra, though in a far more prominent place, entirely fails to do.

Poor though the church at Mafra is outside, inside there is much to admire, and but little
to betray the late date. The porch has an effective vault of black and white marble, and domes
with black and white panels cover the spaces under the towers. Inside the church is all built
of white marble with panels and pilasters of pink marble from Pero Pinheiro on the road to
Cintra. (Fig. 101.)

The whole church measures about 200 feet long by 100 wide, with a nave also 100 feet long.
The central aisle is over 40 feet wide, and has two very well-proportioned Corinthian pilasters
between each bay. Almost the only trace of the eighteenth century is found in the mouldings
of the pendentive panels, and in the marble vault, but on the whole the church is stately and
the detail refined and restrained.

The refectory, a very plain room with plastered barrel vault, 160 feet long by 40 wide, is
remarkable only for the splendid slabs of Brazil wood which form the tables, and for the beautiful
brass lamps which hang from the ceiling.

Much more interesting is the library which occupies the central part of the floor above. Over
200 feet long, it has a dome-surmounted transept in the middle, and a barrel vault divided
into panels. All the walls are lined with bookcases painted white like the barrel vault and
like the projecting gallery from which the upper shelves are reached. One half is devoted to
religious, and one half to secular books, and in the latter each country has a space more or
less large allotted to it. As scarcely any books seem to have been added since the building
was finished, it should contain many a rare and valuable volume, and as all seem to be in excellent
condition,

they might well deserve a visit from some learned book-lover.

Mafra does not seem to have ever had any interesting history. Within the lines of Torres Vedras,
the palace escaped the worst ravages of the French invasion. In 1834 the two hundred and eighty
friars were turned out, and since then most of the vast building has been turned into barracks,
while the palace is but occasionally inhabited by the king when he comes to shoot in the great
wooded tapada or enclosure which stretches back towards the east.

[Sidenote: Evora, Capella Mor.]

Just about the time that João V. was beginning his great palace at Mafra, the chapter of the
cathedral of Evora came to the conclusion that the old Capella Mor was too small, and altogether
unworthy of the dignity of an archiepiscopal see. So they determined to pull it down, and naturally
enough employed Ludovici to design the new one. The first stone was laid in 1717, and the chancel
was consecrated in 1746 at the cost of about £27,000.

The outside, of white marble, is enriched with two orders of pilasters, Corinthian and Composite.
Inside, white, pink and black marbles are used, the columns are composite, but the whole design
is far poorer than anything at Mafra.

King João V. died in 1750 after a long and prosperous reign. Besides building Mafra he gave
great sums of money to the Pope, and obtained in return the division of Lisbon into two bishoprics,
and the title of Patriarch for the archbishop of Lisboa Oriental, or Eastern Lisbon.

When he died he was succeeded by Dom José, whose reign is noted for the terrible earthquake
of 1755, and for the administration of the great Marques de Pombal.

It was on the 1st of November, when the population of Lisbon was assembled in the churches
for the services of All Saints' day, that the first shock was felt. This was soon followed
by two others which laid the city in ruins, killing many people. Most who had escaped rushed
to the river bank, where they with the splendid palace at the water's edge were all overwhelmed
by an immense tidal wave.

The damage done to the city was almost incalculable. Scarcely a house remained uninjured, and
of the churches nearly all were ruined. The cathedral was almost entirely destroyed, leaving
only the low chapels and the romanesque nave and transepts standing, and of the later churches
all were ruined, and only São Roque and São Vicente de Fora--which lost its dome--remained
to show what manner of churches were built at the end of the sixteenth century.

This is not the place to tell of the administration of the Marques de Pombal, who rose to eminence
owing to the great ability he showed after this awful calamity, or to give a history of how
he expelled the Jesuits, subdued the nobles, attempted to make Portugal a manufacturing country,
abolished slavery and the differences between the Old and the New Christians, reformed the
administration and the teaching of the University of Coimbra, and robbed the Inquisition of
half its terrors by making its trials public. In Lisbon he rebuilt the central part of the
town, laying out parallel streets, and surrounding the Praça do Commercio with great arcaded
government offices; buildings remarkable rather for the fine white stone of which they are
made, than for any architectural beauty. Indeed it is impossible to admire any of the buildings
erected in Portugal since the earthquake; the palaces of the Necessidades and the Ajuda are
but great masses of pink-washed plaster pierced with endless windows, and without any beauty
of detail or of design.

[Sidenote: Lisbon, Estrella.]

Nor does the church of the Coração de Jesus, usually called the Estrella, call for any admiration.
It copies the faults of Mafra, the tall drum, the poor dome, and the towers with bulbous tops.

[Sidenote: Oporto, Torre dos Clerigos.]

More vicious, indeed, than the Estrella, but much more original and picturesque, is the Torre
dos Clerigos at Oporto, built by the clergy in 1755. It stands at the top of a steep hill leading
down to the busiest part of the town. The tower is a square with rounded corners, and is of
very considerable height. The main part is four stories in height, of which the lowest is the
tallest and the one above it the shortest. All are adorned with pilasters or pilaster strips,
and the third, in which is a large belfry window, has an elaborate cornice, rising over the
window in a rounded pediment to enclose a great shield of arms. The fourth story is finished
by a globe-bearing parapet, within which the tower rises to another parapet much corbelled
out. The last or sixth story is set still further back and ends in a fantastic dome-shaped
roof. In short, the tower is a good example of the wonderful and ingenious way in which the
eighteenth-century builders of Portugal often contrived the strangest results by a use--or
misuse--of pieces of classic detail, forming a whole often more Chinese than Western in appearance,
but at the same time not unpicturesque.[171]

[Sidenote: Oporto, Quinta do Freixo.]

A much more pleasing example of the same school--a school doubtless influenced by the bad example
of Churriguera in Spain--is the house called the Quinta do Freixo on the Douro a mile or so
above the town. Here the four towers with their pointed slate roofs rise in so picturesque
a way at the four corners, and the whole house blends so well with the parapets and terraces
of the garden, that one can almost forgive the broken pediments which form so strange a gable
over the door, and the still more strange shapes of the windows. Now that factory chimneys
rise close on either side the charm is spoiled, but once the house, with its turrets, its vase-laden
parapets, its rococo windows, and the slates painted pale blue that cover its walls, must have
been a fit setting for the artificial civilisation of a hundred and fifty years ago, and for
the ladies in dresses of silk brocade and gentlemen in flowered waistcoats and powdered hair
who once must have gone up and down the terrace steps, or sat in the shell grottoes of the garden.

[Sidenote: Queluz.]

Though less picturesque and fantastic, the royal palace at Queluz, between Lisbon and Cintra,
is another really pleasing example of the more sober rococo. Built by Dom Pedro III. about
1780, the palace is a long building with a low tiled roof, and the gardens are rich in fountains
and statues.

[Sidenote: Guimarães, Quinta.]

Somewhat similar, but unfinished, and enriched with niches and statues, is a Quinta near the
station at Guimarães. Standing on a slope, the garden descends northwards in beautiful terraces,
whose fronts are covered with tiles. Being well cared for, it is rich in beautiful trees and
shrubs.

[Sidenote: Oporto, Hospital and Factory.]

Much more correct, and it must be said commonplace, are the hospital and the English factory--or
club-house--in Oporto. The plans of both have clearly been sent out from England, the hospital
especially being thoroughly English in design. Planned on so vast a scale that it has never
been completed, with the pediment of its Doric portico unfinished, the hospital is yet a fine
building, simple and severe, not unlike what might have been designed by some pupil of Chambers.

The main front has a rusticated ground floor with round-headed windows and doors. On this in
the centre stands a Doric portico of six columns, and at the ends narrower colonnades of four
shafts each. Between them stretches a long range of windows with simple, well-designed architraves.
The only thing, apart from its unfinished condition, which shows that the hospital is not in
England, are some colossal figures of saints which stand above the cornice, and are entirely
un-English in style.

Of later buildings little can be said. Many country houses are pleasing from their complete
simplicity; plastered, and washed pink, yellow, or white, they are devoid of all architectural
pretension, and their low roofs of red pantiles look much more natural than do the steep slated
roofs of some of the more modern villas.

The only unusual point about these Portuguese houses is that, as a rule, they have sash windows,
a form of window so rare in the South that one is tempted to see in them one of the results
of the Methuen Treaty and of the long intercourse with England. The chimneys, too, are often
interesting. Near Lisbon they are long, narrow oblongs, with a curved top--not unlike a tombstone
in shape--from which the smoke escapes by a long narrow slit. Elsewhere the smoke escapes through
a picturesque arrangement of tiles, and hardly anywhere is there to be seen a simple straight
shaft with a chimney can at the top.

For twenty years after the end of the Peninsular War the country was in a more or less disturbed
state. And it was only after Dom Miguel had been defeated and expelled, and the more liberal
party who supported Dona Maria II. had won the day, that Portugal again began to revive.

In 1834, the year which saw Dom Miguel's surrender, all monasteries throughout the country
were suppressed, and the monks turned out. Even more melancholy was the fate of the nuns, for
they were allowed to stay on till the last should have died. In some cases one or two survived
nearly seventy years, watching the gradual decay of their homes, a decay they were powerless
to arrest, till, when their death at last set the convents free, they were found, with leaking
roofs, and rotten floors, almost too ruinous to be put to any use.

The Gothic revival has not been altogether without its effects in Portugal. Batalha has been,
and Alcobaça is being, saved from ruin. The Sé Velha at Coimbra has been purged--too drastically
perhaps--of all the additions and disfigurements of the eighteenth century, and the same is
being done with the cathedral of Lisbon.

Such new buildings as have been put up are usually much less successful. Nothing can exceed
the ugliness of the new domed tower of the church of Belem, or of the upper story imposed on
the long undercroft. Nor can the new railway station in the Manoelino style be admired.

Probably the best of such attempts to copy the art of Portugal's greatest age is found at Bussaco,
where the hotel, with its arcaded galleries and its great sphere-bearing spire, is not unworthy
of the sixteenth century, and where the carving, usually the spontaneous work of uninstructed
men, shows that some of the mediæval skill, as well as some of the mediæval methods, have survived
till the present century.

BOOKS CONSULTED

Hieronymi Osorii Lusitani, Silvensis in Algarviis Episcopi: De rebus Emmanuelis, etc. Cologne,
1597.

Padre Ignacio da Piedade e Vasconcellos: Historia de Santarem Edificada. Lisboa Occidental, 1790.

J. Murphy: History and Description of the Royal Convent of Batalha. London, 1792.

Raczynski: Les Arts en Portugal. Paris, 1846.

Raczynski: Diccionaire Historico-Artistique du Portugal. Paris, 1847.

J. C. Robinson: 'Portuguese School of Painting' in the Fine Arts Quarterly Review. 1866.

Simões, A. F.: Architectura Religiosa em Coimbra na Idade Meia.

Ignacio de Vilhena Barbosa: Monumentos de Portugal Historicos, etc. Lisboa, 1886.

Oliveira Martims: Historia de Portugal.

Pinho Leal: Diccionario Geographico de Portugal.

Albrecht Haupt: Die Baukunst der Renaissance in Portugal. Frankfurt A.M., 1890.

Visconde de Condeixa: O Mosteiro da Batalha em Portugal. Lisboa & Paris.

Justi: 'Die Portugiesische Malerei des 16ten Jahrhunderts' in the Jahrbuch der K. Preuss. Kunstsammlung,
vol. ix. Berlin, 1888.

Joaquim Rasteiro: Quinta e Palacio de Bacalhôa em Azeitão. Lisboa, 1895.

Joaquim de Vasconcellos: 'Batalha' & 'São Marcos' from A Arte e a Natureza em Portugal. Ed.
E. Biel e Cie. Porto.

L. R. D.: Roteiro Illustrado do Viajante em Coimbra. Coimbra, 1894.

Caetano da Camara Manoel: Atravez a Cidade de Evora, etc. Evora, 1900.

Conde de Sabugosa: O Paço de Cintra. Lisboa, 1903.

Augusto Fuschini: A Architectura Religiosa da Edade Média. Lisboa, 1904.

José Queiroz: Ceramica Portugueza. Lisboa, 1907.

INDEX

A

Abd-el-Melik, 244.

Abrantes, 41, 103.

Abreu, L. L. d', 233.

Abu-Zakariah, the vezir, 44.

Affonso II., 64, 65.
  ---- III., 7, 64, 67, 68, 75, 116.
  ---- IV., 43, 73, 74, 76.
  ---- V., 92, 101, 102, 127, 134, 143, 161, 171, 176.
  ---- VI., 24, 127.
  ---- I., Henriques, 6, 31, 38, 40, 41, 44, 51, 117, 166, 196, 197.
  ---- of Portugal, Bishop of Evora, 19.
  ---- son of João I., 261.
  ---- son of João II., 144.

Africa, 66, 144, 161.

Aguas Santas, 33, 136.

Agua de Peixes, 131.

Ahmedabad, 159, 176, 180.

Albuquerque, Affonso de, 25, 144, 158, 170, 183, 255.
  ---- Luis de, 180, 183 n.

Alcacer-Quebir, battle of, 216, 244.

Alcacer Seguer, 102.

Alcantara, 28.

Alcobaça, 44, 45, 48, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 68, 70, 71, 75-78, 82, 166, 204, 206, 223, 227, 231, 270.

Al-Coraxi, emir, 42.

Alemquer, 217.

Alemtejo, 1, 10, 51, 100, 129, 143.

Alexander VI., Pope, 158.

Alfonso VI. of Castile and Leon, 6, 117.
  ---- VII. of Castile and Leon, 6, 7, 38, 39.
  ---- X. of Castile and Leon, 68.

Alga, San Giorgio in, 133.

Algarve, the, 7, 67, 68, 116, 219.

Alhambra, the, 120, 128.

Aljubarrota, battle of, 7, 18, 80, 93, 98.

Almada, Rodrigo Ruy de, 11.

Almansor, 30, 42.

Almeida, Bishop Jorge d', 21, 48, 206, 208, 209, 210.

Almeirim, palace of, 122, 144, 229, 240.

Almeixial, battle of, 262.

Almourol, 41.

Almoravides, the, 6.

Alvares, the, 49, 242, 244.
  ---- Baltazar, 252, 253.
  ---- Fernando, 19.

Alvito, 27, 100, 129-132, 255.

Amarante, 237.

Amaro, Sant', 27.

Amboise, Georges d', 202.

Ançã, 204.

Andalucia, 4.

Andrade, Fernão Peres de, 144.

Angra do Heroismo, in the Azores, 260.

Annes, Canon Gonçalo, 20 n.
  ---- Margarida, 91 n.
  ---- Pedro, 197.

Antunes, Aleixo, 228.

Antwerp, 11.

Arabes, Sala dos, Cintra, 23, 24, 124.

Aragon, 5.

Arganil, Counts of, 206, 207.

Arraes, Frey Amador, 252.

Arruda, Diogo de, 162.

Astorga, 41.

Asturias, 5.
  ---- Enrique, Prince of the, 81.

Augustus, reign of, 3.

Ave, river, 2, 29, 31, 107.

Aveiro, convent at, 142.
  ---- the Duque d', 140.
  ---- Dukes of, 251.

Avignon, 161.

Aviz, House of, 8.

Azeitão, 255.

Azila, in Morocco, 134, 243, 244.

Azurara, 63, 107, 108, 136.

B

Bacalhôa, Quinta de, 22, 25, 27, 176 n., 183, 255.

Barbosa, Francisco, 212.
  ---- Gonzalo Gil, 212.

Barcellos, 127.

Barcelona, 5.

Batalha, 24, 61 n., 62, 63, 65, 70, 78, 80-92, 95, 96, 97, 99, 109, 159, 171-181, 193, 194,
204, 224, 227, 230-233, 270.

Bayão, Gonçalo, 240.

Bayona, in Galicia, 39.

Beatriz, Dona, wife of Charles III. of Savoy, 14.
  ---- Queen of Affonso III., 68, 75.
  ---- ---- Affonso IV., 117.

Bebedim, 116, 168 n.

Beckford, 59.

Beira, 1, 7, 64.

Beja, 7, 51, 69, 148, 255, 256.
  ---- Luis, Duke of, 14.

Belem, 14, 15, 16, 20, 28, 100, 104, 162, 164, 166, 171, 172, 177, 183-195, 221, 222, 227,
231, 241, 271.

  ---- Tower of São Vicente, 146, 179, 181-183, 194.

Bernardo (of Santiago), 36, 48 n.
  ---- Master, 48.

Bernard, St., of Clairvaux, 59.

Boelhe, 32.

Bonacofú, 102.

Boulogne, Countess of, 68, 75.

Boutaca, or Boitaca, 147, 149, 184, 231.

Braga, 2, 3, 18, 19, 31, 34-40, 52, 62, 67, 98, 99, 104, 112-115.

Braganza, Archbishop José de, 114 n.
  ---- Catherine, Duchess of, 244, 261.
  ---- Duke of, 143.
  ---- Dukes of, 127.
  ---- João, Duke of, 261.

Brandão, Francisco, 11.

Brazil, 8, 66, 144, 158, 160, 222, 243, 244, 261, 262.

Brazil, Pedro of, 8.

Brazões, Sala dos, Cintra, 24, 126, 138, 151.

Brites, Dona, daughter of Fernando I., 80.
  ---- ---- mother of D. Manoel, 25, 183 n.

Buchanan, George, 198 n.

Bugimaa, 116, 168 n.

Burgos, 90.

Burgundy, Count Henry of, 6, 37, 41, 42, 114, 117.
  ---- Isabel, Duchess of, 11, 98 n., 120.

Bussaco, 271.

C

Cabral, Pedro Alvares, 8, 101, 144, 158, 170, 206.

Caldas da Rainha, 27, 146, 147.

Cales, 6.

Calicut, Portuguese at, 8, 144, 157, 158, 183.

Calixtus III., Pope, 161.

Câmara, Luis Gonçalves de, 243.

Caminha, 27, 109, 110, 136, 137, 218, 220.

Cantabrian Mountains, 1, 5.

Cantanhede, 215 n.

Canterbury Cathedral, 82.

Canton, Portuguese at, 144.

Cão, Diogo, 143.

Cardiga, 229.

Carlos, Frey, painter, 12.

Carnide, Pero de, 149.

Carreira, house of Visconde de, 254.

Carreiro, Pero, 212.

Carta, Diogo da, 192.

Carvalho, Pero, 229.

Castello Branco, Cardinal Affonso de, 19, 20, 140, 250.

Castile, 5, 6, 7, 44, 80.
  ---- Constance of, 80, 81.

Castilho, Diogo de, 188, 196, 198, 199.
  ---- João de, 22, 28, 72, 162, 164-166, 169, 171, 172, 184, 195, 196, 199,
       200, 212, 222-239.
  ---- Maria de, 162.

Castro de Avelans, 58.
  ---- Guiomar de, 213, 215.
  ---- Inez de, 38, 62, 76-78, 88.
  ---- Isabel de, 102.

Castro-Marim, 161.

Cataluña, 5, 262.

Catharina, queen of João III., 240, 243.

Cavado, river, 29.

Cellas, 70.

Cêras, 55.

Cetobriga, 2, 4.

Ceuta, 88, 100, 101, 262.

Ceylon, loss of, 244.

Chambers, 269.

Chantranez, Nicolas. See Nicolas, Master.

Chelb. See Silves.

Chillenden, Prior, 82.

Chimneys, 270.

China, Portuguese in, 158.

Christo de la Luz, 116.

Churriguera, 269.

Cintra, 21, 22, 23, 28, 116-128, 130, 136-138, 148, 184, 215, 216.

Citania, 2, 3.

Clairvaux, 59, 60.

Claustro Real, Batalha, 178-180.

Clement v., Pope, 161.

Coca, in Spain, 183.

Cochin, Portuguese in, 158.

Cogominho, Pedro Esteves, 94.

Coimbra, 16, 17, 19, 30, 40, 44, 79, 80, 109, 184, 239, 244.
  ---- Archdeacon João de, 114.
  ---- Carmo, 252.
  ---- County of, 6.
  ---- Episcopal palace, 250.
  ---- Graça, 252.
  ---- Misericordia, 140, 250.
  ---- Pedro, Duke of, 88, 101.
  ---- São Bento, 252.
  ---- São Domingos, 251.
  ---- São Thomaz, 237.
  ---- Sta. Clara, 72.  New, 259.
  ---- Sta. Cruz, 12, 13, 20, 151, 153, 160, 188, 192, 196-200, 214, 215, 234,
       258.
  ---- Sé Nova, 248, 253, 259.
  ---- Sé Velha, 19, 23, 41, 45, 49-51, 54, 62, 63, 71, 110,
       206-210, 251, 270.
  ---- University, 59, 141, 153, 198, 268.

Columbus, Christopher, 8, 143.

Condeixa, 2, 3.
  ---- Visconde de, 89.

Conimbriga, 2, 3.

Conselbo, Sala do, Cintra, 24, 121.

Cordeiro, Johan, 149.

Cordoba, 116.

Coro, the, Thomar, 161-170.

Coutinho, Beatriz, 101.

Crato, Prior of, 244.

Cunha, João Lourenço da, 74 n.
  ---- Tristão da, 170.

Cyprus, 89.

Cysnes, Sala de. See Swan Hall.

D

Dartmouth, 44.

David, Gerhard, 12.

Delhi, Old, Kutub at, 176.

Diana, Pateo de, Cintra, 24, 125.

Diaz, Bartholomeu, 143, 170.

Diniz, Dom, King, 7, 59, 62, 69, 72, 117, 161, 167, 223.
  ---- ---- son of Inez de Castro, 79.

Diogo, Duke of Vizen, 143, 161.

D'ipri, João, 49, 287.

Diu, 158.

Domingues, Affonso, 71, 82, 90.
  ---- Domingo, 71, 82.

Douro, river, 1, 2, 5, 6, 44, 256.

Dralia, Johannes, 13.

Duarte, Dom, 88, 91, 101, 122, 171, 172.

Durando, Bishop of Evora, 51, 54.

Dürer, Albert, 11.

E

Eannes, Affonso, 98.
  ---- Diogo, 109.
  ---- Gonçalo, 98.
  ---- Rodrigo, 98.

Earthquake at Lisbon, 8, 98, 192, 267, 268.

Ebro, river, 5.

Eduard, Felipe, 239.
  See Uduarte.

Ega, 117.

Egas Moniz, 7, 38, 39, 41.

Eja, 32.

El-Kasar-el-Kebir, 244.

Elsden, William, 60.

Elvas, 28, 152, 236.

English influence, supposed, 82-92.

Entre Minho e Douro, 29, 30.

Escorial, the, 247, 263-266.

Escudos, Sala dos. See Sala dos Brazões.

Espinheiro, 12.

Essex, Earl of, 68.

Estaço, Gaspar, 93 n.

Esteves, Pedro, 94.

Estrella, Serra d', 1.

Estremadura, 1, 2, 64.

Estremoz, 219.

Eugenius IV., Pope, 161.

Evora, 2, 9 n., 12, 51, 129, 143, 183, 198, 241.
  ---- Cartuxa, 255.
  ---- Fernão d', 92.
  ---- Graça, 242.
  ---- Henrique, Archbishop of, 14, 20.
  ---- Monte, 9.
  ---- Morgado de Cordovis, 132.
  ---- Paços Reaes, 132.
  ---- Resende, House of, 146, 148, 179.
  ---- São Braz, 135.
  ---- São Domingos, 219.
  ---- São Francisco, 134, 163.
  ---- Sé, 17, 19, 30, 51-55, 62, 64, 71, 72, 89, 192, 260, 262, 267.
  ---- Temple, 4.
  ---- University, 243.

Eyck, J. van, 11.

F

Familicão, 32.

Faro, 68 n., 237.

Felix, the goldsmith, 18.

Fenacho, João, 154.

Fernandes, Antonius, 200.
  ---- Diogo, 159.
  ---- Lourenço, 184.
  ---- Matheus, sen., 171, 172, 175, 200, 222, 230.
  ---- Matheus, jun., 171, 175, 178, 179, 200, 222, 230.
  ---- Thomas, 159.
  ---- Vasco, 12.

Ferdinand and Isabella (the Catholic king), 87, 144, 189.

Fernando I. of Castile and Leon, 5, 6, 44, 47.
  ---- I., Dom, 7, 74, 76, 78, 79.
  ---- son of João I., 88.
  ---- ---- Dom Duarte, 161.

Figueira de Foz, 212.

Figueredo, Christovão de, 198, 200, 201.

Flanders, Isabel of. See Burgundy, Duchess of.

Fontenay, 59, 71.

Fontfroide, 71.

Furness, 59.

Funchal, in Madeira, 67, 110, 136, 137, 192, 206, 211.

G

Galicia, 2, 5, 6, 7, 29, 42, 44, 67.

Gama, Vasco da, 8, 125, 143, 144, 157, 170, 183, 185, 188, 195, 206.

Gandara, 32.

Garcia, King of Galicia, 6.

Gata, Sierra de, 1.

Gaunt, John of, 80, 81.
  ---- ---- Philippa, daughter of. See Lancaster, Philippa of.

Gerez, the, 1, 3, 29.

Gilberto, Bishop. See Hastings, Gilbert of.

Giraldo, São, 18.

Giustiniani, San Lorenzo, 28, 133.

Gôa (India), 20, 144, 158, 200, 234 n.

Goes, 219.
  ---- Damião de, 11, 145.

Gollegã, 151, 152, 153.

Gomes, Gonçalo, 149.

Gonsalves, André, 149.
  ---- Eytor, 198.

Goth, Bertrand de. See Clement V.

Granada, 116, 161.

Guadiana, river, 1.

Guarda, 33, 61 n., 62, 95-99, 151, 238.
  ---- Fernando, Duke of, 14.

Guadelete, 5.

Guimarães, 2, 3, 7, 17, 18, 19, 20, 31, 38, 41, 42, 63,
65, 70, 80, 93, 94, 103, 127, 269.
  ---- Duarte, Duke of, 14, 244, 261.

Gujerat, 159, 183.

Guntino, Abbot, 73.

Guzman, Beatriz de, 68.
  See Beatriz, Queen of Affonso III.
  ---- Luisa, Queen of João IV., 261.

H

Haro, Dona Mencia de, 67.

Hastings, Gilbert of, 45, 55.

Haupt, Albrecht, 82, 85, 130, 159, 176, 177, 183.

Henares, Alcalá de, 234.

Henriques, Francisco, 135.

Henry, Cardinal King, 14, 20, 59, 72, 144, 222, 223, 241-244, 261.
  ---- Prince, the Navigator, Duke of Vizen, 8, 70, 88,
       102, 103, 161, 169, 170, 183, 188, 195.
  ---- VII. of England, 166.

Herculano, 185.

Herrera, 247.

Hollanda, Antonio de, 16, 17.
  ---- Francisco de, 17.

Holy Constable. See Pereira, Nuno Alvares.

Huguet (Ouguet, or Huet), 82, 90, 91, 98, 178.

I

Idacius, 4.

Idanha a Velha, 57.

India, 66, 144, 159, 243.

Indian influence, supposed, 159, 183.

Inquisition, the, 222, 248.

Isabel, St., Queen, 19, 20, 72, 117, 260.
  ---- Queen of D. Manoel, 87, 144, 189.
  ---- Queen of Charles V., 14, 244.

Italian influence, 219.

J

Jantar, Sala de, Cintra, 24, 123.

Japan, Portuguese in, 158.

Jeronymo, 203.

Jews, expulsion of the, 144.

João I., 1, 8, 11, 18, 23, 24, 42, 80, 81, 84, 88, 93, 95,
101, 117, 122, 123, 178, 244.
  ---- II., 8, 25, 92, 97, 93, 130, 131, 143, 144, 161, 171, 176, 179, 181.
  ---- III., 17, 95, 162, 185, 196, 198, 216, 218, 219,
       221, 222, 224, 225, 236, 242, 243, 248, 251, 256.
  ---- IV., 59, 261, 262.
  ---- V., 262, 263, 267.
  ---- Dom, son of Inez de Castro, 79, 80.
  ---- ---- son of João I., 88.

John, Don, of Austria, son of Philip of Spain, 262.

John XXII., Pope, 161.

José, Dom, 267.

Junot, Marshal, 8.

Justi, 12, 13.

L

Lagos, São Sebastião at, 219.

Lagrimas, Quinta das, 76.

Lamego, 4, 9 n., 44, 111, 237.

Lancaster, Philippa of, 81, 84, 88, 89, 100, 122.

Leça do Balio, 41, 42 n., 63, 67, 73, 74, 79.

Leiria, 33, 69, 260.

Leyre, S. Salvador de, 35 n.

Lemos family, 219.

Leo X., Pope, 122.

Leon, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 29, 44, 80.

Leonor, Queen of João II., 146, 153, 171.
  ---- Queen of D. Manoel, 14, 189.

Lerma, Duque de, 261.

Lima, river, 29.

Lis, river, 69.

Lisbon, 6, 9, 65, 157, 158, 159, 192, 227, 251, 261, 267.
  ---- Ajuda Palace, 268.
  ---- Carmo, 98, 99, 206.
    ---- ---- Museum, 78, 99.

  ---- Cathedral, 38, 45-47, 49, 50, 52, 54, 61 n., 71, 72, 74, 271.
  ---- Conceição Velha, 195.
  ---- Estrella, 268.
  ---- Madre de Deus, 26, 153, 155, 156.
  ---- Necessidades, Palace, 268.
  ---- São Bento, 253.
  ---- São Roque, 26, 242, 244, 245, 268.
  ---- São Vicente de Fora, 241, 245, 247, 253, 257, 268.
    ---- ---- house of Conde de, 236.
  ---- Santo Antão, 245, 247-248, 249, 250.
  ---- Sta. Maria do Desterro, 245, 248.
  ---- Torre do Tombo, 226 n.
  ---- Torreão do Paço, 248.
  ---- University, 248.
  ---- Affonso, Archbishop of, 14.

Lobo, Diogo, Barão d'Alvito, 131.

Lobos, Ruy de Villa, 75.

Loches, St. Ours, 126.

Lopez, João, 254-255.

Lorvão, 20, 237.

Longuim, 202.

Lourenço, Gregorio, 196, 197, 198, 201, 202.
  ---- Thereza, 76, 80.

Louzã, 10 n., 219.

Loyos, the, 99, 133, 260.

Ludovici, Frederic, 263, 267.

Lupiana, Spain, 234 n.

Lusitania, 1, 4.

M

Madrid, 10, 261.

Mafamede, 116, 168.

Mafra, 52, 260, 262, 263, 268.

Malabar Coast, 157.

Malacca, 158.

Manoel, Dom, 11, 12, 14, 20, 24, 26, 54, 56, 71, 83, 87, 95, 97, 104, 105, 108-111, 117-119,
144, 157, 159, 162-169, 171-172, 189, 196, 198, 199, 205, 216, 218, 222, 244.

Manuel, Jorge, 226 n.

Marão Mts., 1, 29.

Marceana, 217.

Maria I., 119, 121.
  ---- II., da Gloria, 8, 256, 270.
  ---- Queen of Dom Manoel, 144, 189.

Massena, General, 180.

Matsys, Quentin, 13.

Mattos, Francisco de, 22, 26, 28, 245 n.

Mazagão, Morocco, 227, 231.

Meca, Terreiro da, 125, 127.

Mecca, 158.

Medina del Campo, Spain, 183.
  ---- Sidonia, Duke of, 261.

Mello, family, 219.
  ---- Rodrigo Affonso de, 133, 134.

Melrose, 59.

Mendes, Hermengildo, Count of Tuy and Porto, 41.

Menendes, Geda, 18.

Menezes, Brites de, 212-215.
  ---- Duarte de, 57, 101, 102.
  ---- Fernão Telles de, 213.
  ---- Dona Leonor Telles de, 74 n., 79.
  ---- Leonor de, daughter of D. Pedro, 100.
  ---- Pedro de, 100, 101.

Merida, 4.

Mertola, 116.

Miguel, Dom, 8, 182, 256, 270.
  ---- Prince, son of D. Manoel, 144.
  ---- bishop of Coimbra, 18, 47, 48.

Minho, river, 1, 64, 109.

Miranda de Douro, 241.

Moissac, 72.

Moncorvo, 220.

Mondego, river, 5, 30, 44, 73, 212, 251, 259.

Montemor-o-Velho, 217.

Montijo, battle of, 262.

Morocco, 5, 21, 55, 88, 100, 121, 143, 171.

Mulay-Ahmed, 243.

Mumadona, Countess of Tuy and Porto, 41.

Muñoz, assistant of Olivel of Ghent, 163.

Murillo, 10.

Murça, Diogo de, 252.

Murphy, J., 90 n., 177.

N

Nabantia. See Thomar.

Nabão, river, 66, 234.

Napier, Captain Charles, 9.

Nassau, Maurice of, 262.

Navarre, 5, 35 n.

Nicolas, Master, 164, 184, 196, 198, 199, 200, 215, 216, 218, 221, 222,
223, 238, 239.
  ---- V., Pope, 161.

Noronha, Bishop Manoel, 237.

Noya, 254 n.

O

Oliva, Antonio ab, 28.

Olivares, Conde, Duque de, 261.

Olivel of Ghent, 135, 163.

Oporto, 6, 9, 22, 41, 73, 80.
  ---- Cathedral, 37, 39, 71, 72.
  ---- Cedofeita, 5, 32.
  ---- Collegio Novo, 249, 259.
  ---- Hospital and Factory, 269,
  ---- Misericordia, 13, 19.
  ---- Nossa Senhors da Serra do Pilar, 256-8.
  ---- Quinta ado Freixo, 269.
  ---- São Bento, 253.
  ---- São Francisco, 63.
  ---- Torre dos Clerigos, 268.

Order of Christ, the. See Thomar.

Orense, in Galicia, 6, 66 n., 254.

Ormuz, Portuguese in, 144, 158.

Ouguet. See Huguet.

Ourem, Count of, 100.

Ourique, 7, 51.

Ovidio, Archbishop, 18.

P

Pacheco, Lopo Fernandes, 75.
  ---- Maria Rodrigues, 75.

Paço de Souza, 38, 40.

Paes, Gualdim, 55, 56, 66, 117, 160, 167.

Palmella, 28, 62.

Pax Julia, the. See Beja.

Payo, Bishop, of Evora, 51 n.

Pedro I., 62, 76, 77, 79, 88.
  ---- II., 25.
  ---- III., 269.
  ---- son of João I., Duke of Coimbra, 88.
  ---- the Cruel, Constance, daughter of, 80.

Pegas, Sala das, Cintra, 24, 122, 145, 152.

Pekin, Portuguese in, 144.

Pelayo, Don, 5.

Penafiel, Constança de, 76.

Penha Longa, 236-237.
  ---- Verde, 236.

Pereira, Nuno Alvares, 11, 98.

Pero Pinheiro, 266.

Persia, 124.

Philip I. and II., 7, 14, 144, 222, 240-244, 261, 263.
  ---- III. and IV., 261.

Philippe le Bel, 161.

Pimentel, Frei Estevão Vasques, 73.

Pinhal, 80.

Pinheiro, Diogo, Bishop of Funchal, 211, 212.

Pires Marcos, 153, 196-198, 200.

Po, Fernando, 143.

Pombal, Marques de, 8, 122, 151, 195, 243, 267.

Pombeiro, 39, 40, 62.

Ponza, Carlos de. See Captain Napier, 9.

Pontigny, 60.

Portalegre, 219, 260.

Ptolomeu, Master, 18, 48 n.

Q

Queluz, 269.

Quintal, Ayres do, 166, 168, 169.

R

Rabat, minaret at, 168 n., 180.

Raczynski, Count, 11, 13, 160 n., 214.

Raimundes Alfonso. See Alfonso VII.

Ranulph, Abbot, 59.

Rates, São Pedro de, 3, 34, 36.

Raymond, Count of Toulouse, 6.

Resende, Garcia de, 146, 179, 181, 183.

Restello, Nossa Senhora do, 183.

Rio Mau, São Christovão do, 34.

Robbia, della, 26, 176 n.

Robert, Master, 49, 50.

Roderick, King, 5.

Rodrigues, Alvaro, 162.
  ---- João, 171.
  ---- Jorge, 255.
  ---- Justa, 13, 147, 184.

Roliça, battle of, 62 n.

Romans in Portugal, 2, 3, 4.

Rome, embassy to, 1514, 183.

Rouen, Jean de. See next.

Ruão, João de, 192, 202-205, 215, 218, 238, 239.

S

Sabrosa, 3.

Salamanca, 54.

Saldanha, Manoel de, 141.

Sancha, Dona, 64, 70.

Sancho, King of Castile, 6.

Sancho I., 7, 51, 52, 59, 64, 95, 197.
  ---- II., 64, 67.

Sansovino, Andrea da, 25, 130, 144, 164, 198, 214.

São Marcos, 177, 184, 185, 211-216.
  ---- Theotonio, 196.
  ---- Thiago d'Antas, 32.
  ---- Torquato, 18, 33, 94.

Santa Cruz. See Coimbra.
  ---- Maria da Victoria. See Batalha.

Santarem, 6, 44, 55, 56, 229.
  ---- Graça, 53, 100, 104, 105, 211, 212.
  ---- Marvilla, 27, 152, 153, 156, 235.
  ---- Milagre, 234.
  ---- São Francisco, 57. 65, 67, 78, 83.
  ---- São João de Alporão, 56-57, 63, 64, 101.
  ---- Sta. Clara, 238.
  ---- Frey Martinho de, 101.

Santiago, 36, 45, 47, 72, 254.

Santos, 227 n.

Santo Thyrso, 70, 103.

Sash windows, 270.

Savoy, Margaret of, 261.

Schomberg, Marshal, 262.

Sebastião, Dom, 100, 121, 185, 240-244.

Sem Pavor, Giraldo, 51.

Sempre Noiva, 123, 133, 146.

Sereias, Sala das, Cintra, 24, 122.

Sesnando, Count, 5, 47.

Setubal, 2, 4, 13, 147, 148, 154-156, 184.

Seville, 42, 116, 157, 197.

Silvas, the da, 211-215.

Silva, Ayres Gomes da, 212, 213.
  ---- Miguel da, Bishop of Vizeu, 236.
  ---- Diogo da, 213, 217.
  ---- João da, 213, 218.
  ---- Lourenço da, 213, 216, 217.

Silveira family, 219.

Silves, 63, 67, 68, 116.

Simão, 203.

Sodre, Vicente, 158.

Soeire, 48.

Soult, Marshal, 17, 256.

Soure, 55.

Souza, Diogo de, Archbishop of Braga, 19, 113.
  ---- Gil de, 213.

Sta. Maria a Velha, 59.

St. James, 3.

St. Vincent, Cape, battle of, 9.

Suevi, 2, 4, 5, 32.

Swan Hall, the, Cintra, 24, 119, 120, 137.

T

Taipas, 3.

Tagus, river, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 30, 51, 72 n., 129, 144, 261.

Tangier, 243.

Tarragona, 37, 55.

Tavira, 219, 236.

Telles, Maria, 79.

Templars, the, 55, 117, 160, 161.

Tentugal, 212.

Terzi, Filippo, 241, 242, 243, 244-253, 258, 260.

Tetuan, in Morocco, 21.

Theodomir, Suevic King, 5, 32.

Theotonio, Archbishop of Evora, 255.

Theresa, Dona, wife of Henry of Burgundy, 6, 37, 114.

Thomar, 56, 116, 222, 244, 261.
  ---- Convent of the Order of Christ, 12, 17, 28, 50, 51,
       55, 70, 103, 151, 157-170, 194, 206, 224-230, 240, 250, 255, 260.
  ---- Conceição, 231-234, 242.
  ---- Nossa Senhora do Olival, 63, 66, 68, 73, 74 n., 211.
  ---- São João Baptista, 13, 105.

Tinouco, João Nunes, 242, 247.

Toledo, 6, 37, 48, 58, 116.
  ---- Juan Garcia de, 42, 93, 94.

Torralva, Diogo de, 185, 226, 240-243, 250.

Torre de Murta, 117.
  ---- de São Vicente. See Belem.

Torres, Pero de, 149.
  ---- Pedro Fernandes de, 241.
  ---- Vedras, 267.

Toulouse, St. Sernin at, 36, 45, 47.

Trancoso, 33.

Trava, Fernando Peres de, 6, 7.

Traz os Montes, 1, 29, 220.

Trofa, near Agueda, 219, 220.

Troya, 3.

Tua, river, 2.

Turianno, 242.

Tuy, 6, 41.

U

Urraca, Queen of Castile and Leon, 6, 41.
  ---- Queen of Affonso II., 11, 65.

Uduarte, Philipo, 202.

V

Vagos, Lords. See the da Silvas, 211.

Valladolid, 247.

Vandals, the, 4.

Varziella, 215 n.

Vasari, 130.

Vasco, Grão, 11, 12, 14, 112, 201.

Vasconcellos, Senhora de, 174.

Vasquez, Master, 91.

Vaz, Leonardo, 185.

Velasquez, 10.

Vianna d'Alemtejo, 135.
  ---- do Castello, 254.

Vicente, family of goldsmiths, 20.
  ---- João, 99.

Vigo, 9.

Viegas, Godinho, 34.

Vilhegas, Diogo Ortiz de, Bishop of Vizeu, 16, 111.

Vilhelmus, Doñus, 27.

Vilhena, Antonia de, 213, 216.
  ---- Henrique de, 117.
  ---- Maria de, 213.

Villa do Conde, 29 n., 63, 106-108, 109, 136, 141, 142.
  ---- da Feira, 127, 128.
  ---- nova de Gaya, 256-258.

Villa Viçosa, 202.

Villar de Frades, 34-36, 99.

Villarinho, 31.

Vimaranes, 41.

Visigoths, 1, 4, 5.

Viterbo, San Martino al Cimino, near 60 n.

Vizeu, 11, 14, 16, 44, 111, 112, 143, 161, 206, 236, 237.
  ---- Diogo, Duke of, 143, 161.

Vizella, 31.

Vlimer, Master, 49, 110, 207.

Vouga, river, 29.

W

Walis, palace of, 117.

Wellington, Duke of, 62, 77 n., 241, 256.

Windsor, Treaty of, 1386, 80.

Y

Yakub, Emir of Morocco, 51, 56.

Yokes, ox, 29 n.

Ypres, John of. See D'ipri.

Yusuf, Emir of Morocco, 51.

Z

Zalaca, battle of, 6.

Zezere, river, 234.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The most noticeable difference in pronunciation, the Castilian guttural soft G and J, and
the lisping of the Z or soft C seems to be of comparatively modern origin. However different
such words as 'chave' and 'llave,' 'filho' and 'hijo,' 'mão' and 'mano' may seem they are really
the same in origin and derived from clavis, filius, and manus.

[2] From the name of this dynasty Moabitin, which means fanatic, is derived the word Maravedi
or Morabitino, long given in the Peninsula to a coin which was first struck in Morocco.

[3] The last nun in a convent at Evora only died in 1903, which must have been at least seventy
years after she had taken the veil.

[4] A narcissus triandrus with a white perianth and yellow cup is found near Lamego and at
Louzã, not far from Coimbra.

[5] See article by C. Justi, 'Die Portugesische Malerei des xvi. Jahrhunderts,' in vol. ix.
of the Jahrbuch der K. Preussischen Kunstsammlungen.

[6] Raczynski, Les Arts en Portugal.

[7] These are the 'Annunciation,' the 'Risen Lord appearing to His Mother,' the 'Ascension,'
the 'Assumption,' the 'Good Shepherd,' and perhaps a 'Pentecost' and a 'Nativity.'

[8] V. Guimarães, A Ordem de Christo, p. 155.

[9] A. Hapt, Die Baukunst, etc., in Portugal, vol. ii. p. 36.

[10] These may perhaps be by the so-called Master of São Bento, to whom are attributed a 'Visitation'--in
which Chastity, Poverty, and Humility follow the Virgin--and a 'Presentation,' both now in
Lisbon. Some paintings in São Francisco Evora seem to be by the same hand.

[11] Misericordia=the corporation that owns and manages all the hospitals, asylums, and other
charitable institutions in the town. There is one in almost every town in the country.

[12] She seems almost too old to be Dona Leonor and may be Dona Maria.

[13] His first wife was Dona Isabel, eldest daughter and heiress to the Catholic Kings. She
died in 1498 leaving an infant son Dom Miguel, heir to Castile and Aragon as well as to Portugal.
He died two years later when Dom Manoel married his first wife's sister, Dona Maria, by whom
he had six sons and two daughters. She died in 1517, and next year he married her niece Dona
Leonor, sister of Charles V. and daughter of Mad Juana. She had at first been betrothed to
his eldest son Dom João. All these marriages were made in the hope of succeeding to the Spanish
throne.

[14] Some authorities doubt the identification of the king and queen. But there is a distinct
likeness between the figures of Dom Manoel and his queen which adorn the west door of the church
at Belem, and the portrait of the king and queen in this picture.

[15] It has been reproduced by the Arundel Society, but the copyist has entirely missed the
splendid solemnity of St. Peter's face.

[16] See 'Portuguese School of Painting,' by J. C. Robinson, in the Fine Arts Quarterly of 1866.

[17] Vieira Guimarães, A Ordem de Christo, p. 150.

[18] Ibid., p. 157.

[19] Carriage hire is still cheap in Portugal, for in 1904 only 6$000 was paid for a carriage
from Thomar to Leiria, a distance of over thirty-five miles, though the driver and horses had
to stay at Leiria all night and return next day. 6$000 was then barely over twenty shillings.

[20] It was the gift of Bishop Affonso of Portugal who held the see from 1485 to 1522.

[21] This monstrance was given by Bishop Dom Jorge d'Almeida who died in 1543, having governed
the see for sixty-two years. (Fig. 7.)

[22] Presented by Canon Gonçalo Annes in 1534.

[23] D. Francisco Simonet, professor of Arabic at Granada. Note in Paço de Cintra, p. 206.

[24] See Miss I. Savory, In the Tail of the Peacock.

[25] A common pattern found at Bacalhôa, near Setubal, in the Museum at Oporto, and in the
Corporation Galleries of Glasgow, where it is said to have come from Valencia in Spain.

[26] Joaquim Rasteiro, Palacio e Quinta de Bacalhôa em Azeitão. Lisbon, 1895.

[27] Columns with corbel capitals support a house on the right. Such capitals were common in
Spain, so it is just possible that these tiles may have been made in Spain.

[28] Antonio ab Oliva=Antonio de Oliveira Bernardes, who also painted the tiles in São Pedro
de Rates.

[29] E.g. in the church of the Misericordia Vianna do Castello, the cloister at Oporto, the
Graça Santarem, Sta. Cruz Coimbra, the Sé, Lisbon, and in many other places.

[30] Paço de Cintra, Cond. de Sabugosa. Lisbon, 1903.

[31] These yokes are about 4 or 5 feet long by 18 inches or 2 feet broad, are made of walnut,
and covered with the most intricate pierced patterns. Each parish or district, though no two
are ever exactly alike, has its own design. The most elaborate, which are also often painted
bright red, green, and yellow are found south of the Douro near Espinho. Further north at Villa
do Conde they are much less elaborate, the piercings being fewer and larger. Nor do they extend
far up the Douro as in the wine country in Tras-os-Montes the oxen, darker and with shorter
horns, pull not from the shoulder but from the forehead, to which are fastened large black
leather cushions trimmed with red wool.

[32] Originally there was a bell-gable above the narthex door, since replaced by a low square
tower resting on the north-west corner of the narthex and capped by a plastered spire.

[33]

Theodomir rex gloriosus v. erex. & contrux. hoc. monast. can. B. Aug. ad. Gl. D. et V.M.G.D.
& B. Martini et fecit ita so: lemnit: sacrari ab Lucrec. ep. Brac. et alliis sub. J. III. P.
M. Prid. Idus. Nov. an. D. DLIX. Post id. rex in hac eccl. ab. eod. ep. palam bapt. et fil.
Ariamir cum magnat. suis. omnes conversi ad fid. ob. v. reg. & mirab. in fil. ex sacr. reliq.
B.M. a Galiis eo. reg. postul translatis & hic asservatis Kal. Jan. An. D. DLX.

[34] From M. Bernardes, Tratados Varios, vol. ii. p. 4. The same story is told of the monastery
of San Salvador de Leyre in Navarre, whose abbot, Virila, wondering how it could be possible
to listen to the heavenly choirs for ever without weariness, sat down to rest by a spring which
may still be seen, and there listened, enchanted, to the singing of a bird for three hundred years.

[35] E.g. the west door of Ste. Croix, Bordeaux, though it is of course very much more elaborate.

[36] Namely, to give back some Galician towns which had been captured.

[37] Bayona is one of the most curious and unusual churches in the north of Spain. Unfortunately,
during a restoration made a few years ago a plaster groined vault was added hiding the old
wooden roof.

[38]

The tomb is inscribed: Hic requiescit Fys:
                       Dei: Egas: Monis: Vir:
                       Inclitus: era: millesima:
                       centesima: LXXXII
                      i.e. Era of Caesar 1182, A.D. 1144.

[39] He died soon after at Medinaceli, and a Christian contemporary writer records the fact
saying: 'This day died Al-Mansor. He desecrated Santiago, and destroyed Pampluna, Leon and
Barcelona. He was buried in Hell.'

[40] Another cloister-like building of even earlier date is to be found behind the fourteenth-century
church of Leça de Balio: it was built probably after the decayed church had been granted to
the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem. (Fig. 17.)

[41] A careful restoration is now being carried out under the direction of Senhor Fuschini.

[42] The inscription is mutilated at both ends and seems to read, 'Ahmed-ben-Ishmael built
it strongly by order of ...'

[43] It is a pity that the difference in date makes it impossible to identify this Bernardo
with the Bernardo who built Santiago. For the work Dom Miguel gave 500 morabitinos, besides
a yoke of oxen worth 12, also silver altar fronts made by Master Ptolomeu. Besides the money
Bernardo received a suit of clothes worth 3 morabitinos and food at the episcopal table, while
Soeiro his successor got a suit of clothes, a quintal of wine, and a mora of bread. The bishop
also gave a great deal of church plate showing that the cathedral was practically finished
before his death.

[44] Compare the doorlike window of Nossa Senhora da Oliveira at Guimarães.

[45] The small church of São Salvador has also an old door, plainer and smaller than São Thiago.

[46] The five small shields with the Wounds of Christ on the Portuguese coat are supposed to
have been adopted because on the eve of this battle Christ crucified appeared to Affonso and
promised him victory, and because five kings were defeated.

[47] Andre de Rezende, a fifteenth-century antiquary, says, quoting from an old 'book of anniversaries':
'Each year an anniversary is held in memory of Bishop D. Payo on St. Mark's Day, that is May
21st, on which day he laid the first stone for the foundation of this cathedral, on the spot
where now is St. Mark's Altar, and he lies behind the said place and altar in the Chapel of
St. John. This church was founded Era 1224,' i.e. 1186 A.D. D. Payo became bishop in 1181.
Another stone in the chancel records the death, in era 1321, i.e. 1283 A.D., of Bishop D. Durando,
'who built and enriched this cathedral with his alms,' but probably he only made some additions,
perhaps the central lantern.

[48] It was built 1718-1746 by Ludovici or Ludwig the architect of Mafra and cost 160:000$000
or about £30,000.

[49] The whole inscription, the first part occurring also on a stone in the castle, runs thus:--

E (i.e. Era) MC : L[~X]. VIII. regnant : Afonso : illustrisimo rege Portugalis : magister :
galdinus : Portugalensium : Militum Templi : cum fratribus suis Primo : die : Marcii : cepit
edificari : hoc : castellu : n[=m]e Thomar : q[=o]d : prefatus rex obtulit : Deo : et militibus
: Templi : E. M. CC. XX. VIII : III. mens. : Julii : venit rex de maroqis ducens : CCCC milia
equit[=u] : et quingenta milia : pedit[=u]m : et obsedit castrum istud : per sex Dies : et
delevit : quantum extra : murum invenit : castell[=u] : et prefatus : magister : c[=u] : fratribus
suis liberavit Deus : de manibus : suis Idem : rex : remeavit : in patri[=a] : su[=a] : cu
: innumerabili : detrimento : homin[=u] et bestiarum.

[50] Cf. Templar church at Segovia, Old Castile, where, however, the interior octagon is nearly
solid with very small openings, and a vault over the lower story; it has also three eastern apses.

[51] There is a corbel table like it but more elaborate at Vezelay in Burgundy.

[52] E.g. in S. Martino al Cimino near Viterbo.

[53] So says Murray. Vilhena Barbosa says 1676. 1770 seems the more probable.

[54] Indeed to the end the native builders have been very chary of building churches with a
high-groined vault and a well-developed clerestory. The nave of Batalha and of the cathedral
of Guarda seem to be almost the only examples which have survived, for Lisbon choir was destroyed
by the great earthquake of 1755, as was also the church of the Carmo in the same city, which
perhaps shows that they were right in rejecting such a method of construction in a country
so liable to be shaken.

[55] Cf. similar corbel capitals in the nave of the cathedral of Orense in Galicia.

[56] Before the Black Death, which reduced the number to eight, there are said to have sometimes
been as many as 999 monks!

[57] It was a monk of Alcobaça who came to General Wellesley on the night of 16th August 1808,
and told him that if he wished to catch the French he must be quick as they meant to retire
early in the morning, thus enabling him to win the battle of Roliça, the first fight of the
Peninsular War.

[58] Cf. the clerestory windows of Burgos Cathedral, or those at Dunblane, where as at Guimarães
the circle merely rests on the lights below without being properly united with them.

[59] From the north-east corner of the narthex a door leads to the cloisters, which have a
row of coupled shafts and small pointed arches. From the east walk a good doorway of Dom Manoel's
time led into the chapter-house, now the barrack kitchen, the smoke from which has entirely
blackened alike the doorway and the cloister near.

[60] Compare the horseshoe moulding on the south door of the cathedral of Orense, Galicia,
begun 1120, where, however, each horseshoe is separated from the next by a deep groove.

[61] The town having much decayed owing to fevers and to the gradual shallowing of the river
the see was transferred to Faro in 1579. The cathedral there, sacked by Essex in 1596, and
shattered by the earthquake of 1755, has little left of its original work except the stump
of a west tower standing on a porch open on three sides with plain pointed arches, and leading
to the church on the fourth by a door only remarkable for the dog-tooth of its hood-mould.

[62] The towers stand quite separate from the walls and are united to them by wide round arches.

[63] In the dilapidated courtyard of the castle there is one very picturesque window of Dom
Manoel's time (his father the duke of Beja is buried in the church of the Conceição in the town).

[64] An inscription says:--

'Era 1362 [i.e. A.D. 1324] anos foi esta tore co (meçad) a (aos) 8 dias demaio. é mandou a
faze (r o muito) nobre Dom Diniz rei de P...'

[65] Just outside the castle there is a good romanesque door belonging to a now desecrated church.

[66] Some of the distinctive features of Norman such as cushion capitals seem to be unknown
in Normandy and not to be found any nearer than Lombardy.

[67] Sub Era MCCCXLVIII. idus Aprilis, Dnus Nuni Abbas monasterij de Alcobatie posuit primam
lapidem in fundamento Claustri ejusdem loci. presente Dominico Dominici magistro operis dicti
Claustri. Era 1348 = A.D. 1310.

[68] It is interesting to notice that the master builder was called Domingo Domingues, who,
if Domingues was already a proper name and not still merely a patronymic, may have been the
ancestor of Affonso Domingues who built Batalha some eighty years later and died 1402.

[69] In this cloister are kept in a cage some unhappy ravens in memory of their ancestors having
guided the boat which miraculously brought St. Vincent's body to the Tagus.

[70] Cf. the aisle windows of Sta. Maria dos Olivaes at Thomar.

[71] It was at Leça that Dom Fernando in 1372 announced his marriage with Dona Leonor Telles
de Menezes, the wife of João Lourenço da Cunha, whom he had seen at his sister's wedding, and
whom he married though he was himself betrothed to a daughter of the Castilian king, and though
Dona Leonor's husband was still alive: a marriage which nearly ruined Portugal, and caused
the extinction of the legitimate branch of the house of Burgundy.

[72] Opening off the north-west corner of the cathedral is an apsidal chapel of about the same
period, entered by a fine pointed door, one of whose mouldings is enriched by an early-looking
chevron, but whose real date is shown by the leaf-carving of its capitals.

[73] A note in Sir H. Maxwell's Life of Wellington, vol. i. p. 215, says of Alcobaça: 'They
had burned what they could and destroyed the remainder with an immense deal of trouble. The
embalmed kings and queens were taken out of their tombs, and I saw them lying in as great preservation
as the day they were interred. The fine tesselated pavement, from the entrance to the Altar,
was picked up, the facings of the stone pillars were destroyed nearly to the top, scaffolding
having been erected for that purpose. An orderly book found near the place showed that regular
parties had been ordered for the purpose' (Tomkinson, 77).

[74] There is in the Carmo Museum at Lisbon a fine tomb to Dom Fernando, Dom Pedro's unfortunate
successor. It was brought from São Francisco at Santarem, but is very much less elaborate,
having three panels on each side filled with variously shaped cuspings, enclosing shields,
all beautifully wrought.

[75] Another trophy is now at Alcobaça in the shape of a huge copper caldron some four feet
in diameter.

[76] This site at Pinhal was bought from one Egas Coelho.

[77] Though a good deal larger than most Portuguese churches, except of course Alcobaça, the
church is not really very large. Its total length is about 265 feet with a transept of about
109 feet long. The central aisle is about 25 feet wide by 106 high--an unusual proportion anywhere.

[78] Albrecht Haupt, Die Baukunst der Renaissance in Portugal, says that 'Der Plan durchaus
englisch ist (Lang-und Querschiff fast ganz identisch mit dener der Kathedral zu Canterbury,
nur thurmlos).'

[79] This spire has been rebuilt since the earthquake of 1755, and so may be quite different
from that originally intended.

[80] In his book on Batalha, Murphy, who stayed in the abbey for some months towards the end
of the eighteenth century, gives an engraving of an open-work spire on this chapel, saying
it had been destroyed in 1755.

[81] Huguet witnessed a document dated December 7, 1402, concerning a piece of land belonging
to Margarida Annes, servant to Affonso Domingues, master of the works, and his name also occurs
in a document of 1450 as having had a house granted to him by Dom Duarte, but he must have
been dead some time before that as his successor as master of the works, Master Vasquez, was
already dead before 1448. Probably Huguet died about 1440.

[82] Caspar Estaço, writing in the sixteenth century, says that this triptych was made of the
silver against which King João weighed himself, but the story of its capture at Aljubarrota
seems the older tradition.

[83] These capitals have the distinctive Manoelino feature of the moulding just under the eight-sided
abacus, being twisted like a rope or like two interlacing branches.

[84] The church was about 236 feet long with a transept of over 100 feet, which is about the
length of the Batalha transept.

[85] She also sent the beautiful bronze tomb in which her eldest brother Affonso, who died
young, lies in the cathedral, Braga. The bronze effigy lies on the top of an altar-tomb under
a canopy upheld by two slender bronze shafts. Unfortunately it is much damaged and stands in
so dark a corner that it can scarcely be seen.

[86] In one transept there is a very large blue tile picture.

[87] The Aleo is still at Ceuta. In the cathedral Our Lady of Africa holds it in her hand,
and it is given to each new governor on his arrival as a symbol of office.

[88] The inscription is:--

    Memoria de D. Duarte de Menezes
    Terceiro conde de Viana, Tronco
    dos condes de Tarouca. Primeiro
Capitão de Alcacer-Seguer, em Africa,
    que com quinhentos soldados defendeu
    esta praça contra cemmil
    Mouros, com os quaes teve
    muitos encontros, ficando n'elles
com grande honra e gloria. Morreu na
    serra de Bonacofú per salvar a
    vida do seu rei D. Affonso o Quinto.

[89] When the tomb was moved from São Francisco, only one tooth, not a finger, was found inside.

[90] Besides the church there is in Caminha a street in which most of the houses have charming
doors and windows of about the same date as the church.

[91] 1524 seems too early by some forty years.

[92] The rest of the west front was rebuilt and the inside altered by Archbishop Dom José de
Braganza, a son of Dom Pedro II., about two hundred years ago.

[93] A chapel was added at the back, and at a higher level some time during the seventeenth
century to cover in one of the statues, that of St. Anthony of Padua, who was then becoming
very popular.

[94] This winding stair was built by Dom Manoel: cf. some stairs at Thomar.

[95] A 'pelourinho' is a market cross.

[96] The kitchens in the houses at Marrakesh and elsewhere in Morocco have somewhat similar
chimneys. See B. Meakin, The Land of the Moors.

[97] 'Esta fortaleza se começou a xiij dagosto de mil cccc.l. P[N. of T. horizonal line through
it] iiij por mãdado del Rey dõ Joam o segundo nosso sõr e acabouse em tpõ del Rey dom Manoel
o primeiro nosso Sñor fela per seus mãdados dom Diogo Lobo baram dalvito.'

[98] The house of the duke of Cadaval called 'Agua de Peixes,' not very far off, has several
windows in the same Moorish style.

[99] Vilhena Barbosa, Monumentos de Portugal, p. 324.

[100] Though the grammar seems a little doubtful this seems to mean

Since these by service were And loyal efforts gained, By these and others like to them They
ought to be maintained.

[101] One blank space in one of the corners is pointed out as having contained the arms of
the Duque d'Aveiro beheaded for conspiracy in 1758. In reality it was painted with the arms
of the Coelhos, but the old boarding fell out and has never been replaced.

[102] Affonso de Albuquerque took Ormuz in 1509 and Gôa next year.

[103] Sumatra was visited in 1509.

[104] Fernão Peres de Andrade established himself at Canton in 1517 and reached Pekin in 1521.

[105] Compare the elaborate outlines of some Arab arches at the Alhambra or in Morocco.

[106] Some have supposed that Boutaca was a foreigner, but there is a place called Boutaca
near Batalha, so he probably came from there.

[107] Once the Madre de Deus was adorned with several della Robbia placques. They are now all gone.

[108] Danver's Portuguese in India, vol. i.

[109] See in Oliveira Martims' Historia de Portugal, vol. II. ch. i., the account of the Embassy
sent to Pope Leo IX. by Dom Manoel in 1514. No such procession had been seen since the days
of the Roman Empire. There were besides endless wealth, leopards from India, also an elephant
which, on reaching the Castle of S. Angelo, filled its trunk with scented water and 'asperged'
first the Pope and then the people. These with a horse from Ormuz represented the East. Unfortunately
the representative of Africa, a rhinoceros, died on the way.

[110] Danver's Portuguese in India, vol. i.

[111] Unfortunately Fernandes was one of the commonest of names. In his list of Portuguese
artists, Count Raczynski mentions an enormous number.

[112] In the year 1512 Olivel was paid 25$000. He had previously received 12$000 a month. He
died soon after and his widow undertook to finish his work with the help of his assistant Muñoz.

[113] See the drawing in A Ordem de Christo by Vieira Guimarães.

