Isn't it odd, when you think of it, that you may list all the celebrated Englishmen, Irishmen,
and Scotchmen of modern times, clear back to the first Tudors--a list containing five hundred
names, shall we say?--and you can go to the histories, biographies, and cyclopedias and learn
the particulars of the lives of every one of them. Every one of them except one--the most famous,
the most renowned--by far the most illustrious of them all--Shakespeare! You can get the details
of the lives of all the celebrated ecclesiastics in the list; all the celebrated tragedians,
comedians, singers, dancers, orators, judges, lawyers, poets, dramatists, historians, biographers,
editors, inventors, reformers, statesmen, generals, admirals, discoverers, prize-fighters,
murderers, pirates, conspirators, horse-jockeys, bunco-steerers, misers, swindlers, explorers,
adventurers by land and sea, bankers, financiers, astronomers, naturalists, claimants, impostors,
chemists, biologists, geologists, philologists, college presidents and professors, architects,
engineers, painters, sculptors, politicians, agitators, rebels, revolutionists, patriots, demagogues,
clowns, cooks, freaks, philosophers, burglars, highwaymen, journalists, physicians, surgeons--you
can get the life-histories of all of them but ONE. Just ONE--the most extraordinary and the
most celebrated of them all--Shakespeare!

You may add to the list the thousand celebrated persons furnished by the rest of Christendom
in the past four centuries, and you can find out the life-histories of all those people, too.
You will then have listed fifteen hundred celebrities, and you can trace the authentic life-histories
of the whole of them. Save one--far and away the most colossal prodigy of the entire accumulation--Shakespeare!
About him you can find out NOTHING. Nothing of even the slightest importance. Nothing worth
the trouble of stowing away in your memory. Nothing that even remotely indicates that he was
ever anything more than a distinctly commonplace person--a manager, an actor of inferior grade,
a small trader in a small village that did not regard him as a person of any consequence, and
had forgotten all about him before he was fairly cold in his grave. We can go to the records
and find out the life-history of every renowned RACE-HORSE of modern times--but not Shakespeare's!
There are many reasons why, and they have been furnished in cart-loads (of guess and conjecture)
by those troglodytes; but there is one that is worth all the rest of the reasons put together,
and is abundantly sufficient all by itself--HE HADN'T ANY HISTORY TO RECORD. There is no way
of getting around that deadly fact. And no sane way has yet been discovered of getting around
its formidable significance.

Its quite plain significance--to any but those thugs (I do not use the term unkindly) is, that
Shakespeare had no prominence while he lived, and none until he had been dead two or three
generations. The Plays enjoyed high fame from the beginning; and if he wrote them it seems
a pity the world did not find it out. He ought to have explained that he was the author, and
not merely a NOM DE PLUME for another man to hide behind. If he had been less intemperately
solicitous about his bones, and more solicitous about his Works, it would have been better
for his good name, and a kindness to us. The bones were not important. They will moulder away,
they will turn to dust, but the Works will endure until the last sun goes down.

Mark Twain.

