Upon Mr. Arbuthnot admitting that he studies Shakespere merely from a "curio" point of view,
and that for the poetry he cared nothing, Mr. Payne replied by quoting Schopenhauer: "A man
who is insensible to poetry, be he who he may, must be a barbarian."

Burton, who regarded himself as a poet, approved of the sentiment; Dr. Steingass, who wrote
execrable verses in English which neither rhymed nor scanned, though they were intended to
do both, was no less satisfied; Mr. Ashbee, who looked at matters solely from a bibliographical
point of view, dissented; and Mr. Arbuthnot sweetly changed the conversation to Balzac; with
the result, however, of another tempest, for on this subject Burton, who summed up Balzac as
"a great repertory of morbid anatomy," could never see eye to eye with Balzac's most enthusiastic
English disciple.

At Oxford, Burton met Professor Sayce, and did more literary work "under great difficulties"
at the Bodleian, though he escaped all the evil effects; but against its wretched accommodation
for students and its antediluvian methods he never ceased to inveigh. Early in August he was
at Ramsgate and had the amusement of mixing with a Bank Holiday crowd. But he was amazingly
restless, and wanted to be continually in motion. No place pleased him more than a day or two.

155. The Gypsy, August 1888.

Among the deal tables in Burton's rooms at Trieste was one devoted to a work on the Gypsies,
a race concerning whom, as we have seen, he had long been curious. He had first proposed to
himself to write on the subject when he was in Sind, where he had made investigations concerning
the affinity between the Jats and the Gypsies; and now with abundance of leisure he set about
the work in earnest. But it was never finished, and the fragment which was published in 1898
[557] contains, Mr. Watts-Dunton [558] assures me, many errors. Burton's idea was to describe
the Gypsy in all lands. Perhaps he is happiest in his account of the Spanish Gypsy woman. "Their
women," he says, "sell poultry and old rags.... and find in interpreting dreams, in philter
selling, and in fortune-telling the most lucrative industries. They sing, and play various
instruments, accompanying the music with the most voluptuous and licentious dances and attitudes;
but woe to the man who would obtain from these Bayaderes any boon beyond their provocative
exhibition. From the Indus to Gibraltar, the contrast of obscenity in language and in songs
with corporal chastity has ever been a distinctive characteristic.... Gypsy marriages, like
those of the high caste Hindus, entail ruinous expense; the revelry lasts three days, the 'Gentile'
is freely invited, and the profusion of meats and drinks often makes the bridgegroom a debtor
for life. The Spanish Gypsies are remarkable for beauty in early youth; for magnificent eyes
and hair, regular features, light and well-knit figures. Their locks, like the Hindus, are
lamp black, and without a sign of wave: [559] and they preserve the characteristic eye. I have
often remarked its fixity and brilliance, which flashes like phosphoric light, the gleam which
in some eyes denotes madness. I have also noticed the 'far-off look' which seems to gaze at
something beyond you and the alternation from the fixed stare to a glazing or filming of the
pupil." [560]

This peculiarity of the gypsy's eyes, Burton had himself, for which reason alone, some writers,
as we have already observed, have claimed him for the tribe. But he shared other peculiarities
with them. For example, there was his extraordinary restlessness--a restlessness which prevented
him from every settling long in any one place. Then, like the gypsies, he had an intense horror
of a corpse--even of pictures of corpses. Though brave to temerity he avoided churchyards,
and feared "the phosphorescence of the dead." Many of his letters testify to his keen interest
in the race. For example, he tells Mr. J. Pincherle, author of a Romani version of Solomon's
Song, [561] the whole story of his wife and Hagar Burton. In 1888 he joined the newly-founded
"Gypsy Lore Society," and in a letter to Mr. David MacRitchie (13th May 1888) he says in reference
to the Society's Journal: "Very glad to see that you write 'Gypsy.' I would not subscribe to
'Gipsy.'" In later letters he expresses his appreciation of Mr. MacRitchie's article "The Gypsies
of India," and wishes the Society "God speed," while in that of 13th August 1888, he laments
the trifling results that followed his own and Arbuthnot's efforts in behalf of Orientalism.
"We [The Gypsy Lore Society]" he says, "must advance slowly and depend for success upon our
work pleasing the public. Of course, all of us must do our best to secure new members, and
by Xmas I hope that we shall find ourselves on the right road. Mr. Pincherle writes to me hopefully
about his practical studies of Gypsy life in Trieste. As regards Orientalism in England generally
I simply despair of it. Every year the study is more wanted and we do less. It is the same
with anthropology, so cultivated in France, so stolidly neglected in England. I am perfectly
ashamed of our wretched "Institution" in Hanover Square when compared with the palace in Paris.
However, this must come to an end some day."

On 13th August 1888, Burton writes to Mr. A. G. Ellis from "The Langham," Portland Place, and
sends him the Preface to the last Supplemental Volume with the request that he would run his
eye over it. "You live," he continues, "in a magazine of learning where references are so easy,
and to us outsiders so difficult. Excuse this practical proof that need has no law." On September
26th he sent a short note to Mr. Payne. "Arbuthnot," he said, "will be in town on Tuesday October
2nd. What do you say to meeting him at the Langham 7 p.m. table d'hote hour?.... It will be
our last chance of meeting."

Sir Richard and Lady Burton, Dr. Baker, Arbuthnot, and Payne dined together on the evening
appointed; and on October 15th Burton left London, to which he was never to return alive.

The translation of the Supplemental Nights, that is to say, the collection of more or less
interesting Arabian tales not included in the Nights proper, was now completed. The first volume
had appeared in 1886, the last was to be issued in 1888. Although containing old favourites
such as "Alaeddin," "Zayn Al Asnam," "Ali Baba," and the "Story of the Three Princes," the
supplemental volumes are altogether inferior to the Nights proper. Then, too, many of the tales
are mere variants of the versions in the more important work. Burton's first two supplemental
volumes are from the Breslau text, and, as we said, cover the same ground as Mr. Payne's Tales
from the Arabic. In both he followed Mr. Payne closely, as will be seen from his notes (such
as "Here I follow Mr. Payne, who has skilfully fine-drawn the holes in the original text")
[562] which, frequent as they are, should have been multiplied one hundred-fold to express
anything like the real obligation he owed to Mr. Payne's translation. "I am amazed," he once
said to Mr. Payne, "at the way in which you have accomplished what I (in common with Lane and
other Arabists) considered an impossibility in the elucidation and general re-creation from
chaos of the incredibly corrupt and garbled Breslau Text. I confess that I could not have made
it out without your previous version. It is astonishing how you men of books get to the bottom
of things which are sealed to men of practical experience like me." And he expressed himself
similarly at other times. Of course, the secret was the literary faculty and intuition which
in Burton were wanting.

Burton's Third Volume [563] consists of the tales in Galland's edition which are not in the
Nights proper. All of them, with the exception of "Alaeddin" and "Zayn Al Asnam," are reproductions,
as we said, from a Hindustani translation of the French text--the Arabic originals of the tales
being still (1905) undiscovered.

His Fourth and Fifth Volumes [564] are from the Wortley-Montague Text. His sixth and last [565]
contains the Chavis and Cazotte Text--the manuscript of which is reputed to have been brought
to France by a Syrian priest named Shawish (Frenchlifted into Chavis), who collaborated with
a French litterateur named Cazotte. The work appeared in 1788. "These tales," says Mr. Payne,
"seem to me very inferior, in style, conduct, and diction, to those of 'the old Arabian Nights,'
whilst I think 'Chavis and Cazotte's continuation' utterly unworthy of republication whether
in part or 'in its entirety.' It is evident that Shawish (who was an adventurer of more than
doubtful character) must in many instances have utterly misled his French coadjutor (who had
no knowledge of Arabic), as to the meaning of the original."--Preface to Alaeddin, &c., xv.,
note. Mr. Payne adds, "I confess I think the tales, even in the original Arabic, little better
than rubbish, and am indeed inclined to believe they must have been, at least in part, manufactured
by Shawish." [566]

157. Comparison.

Burton's supplementary volume containing "Alaeddin" and "Zayn Al Asnam," appeared, as we have
seen, in 1887; and in 1889 Mr. Payne issued a Translation from Zotenberg's text. When dealing
with the Nights proper we gave the reader an opportunity of comparing Burton's translation
with Payne's which preceded it. We now purpose placing in juxtaposition two passages from their
supplemental volumes, and we cannot do better than choose from either "Alaeddin" or "Zayn Al
Asnam," as in the case of both the order is reversed, Burton's translation having preceded
Payne's. Let us decide on the latter. Any passage would do, but we will take that describing
the finding of the ninth image:

         Payne                             Burton

  Then he set out and             Then he set out nor
gave not over journeying ceased travelling till such till he came to
Bassora, time as he reached Bassorah, and entering his palace, when he
entered saluted his mother and his palace; and after told her all that
had saluting his mother, he befallen him; whereupon apprized her of all
things quoth she to him "Arise, that had befallen him. O my son, so thou
mayst She replied, "Arise, O see this ninth image, for my son, that we
may look that I am exceedingly upon the Ninth statue, rejoiced at its
presence with for I rejoice with extreme us. So they both joy at its
being in our descended into the underground possession." So both hall
wherein were descended into the pavilion the eight images, and where
stood the eight found there a great marvel; images of precious gems,
to wit, instead of the and here they found a ninth image, they beheld
mighty marvel. 'Twas the young lady resembling this: In lieu of seeing
the the sun in her loveliness. Ninth Statue upon the The prince knew her
golden throne, they found when he saw her, and seated thereon the young
she said to him, "Marvel lady whose beauty suggested not to find me
here in the sun. Zayn place of that which thou al-Asnam knew her at
soughtest; me thinketh first sight and presently thou wilt not repent
thee she addressed him saying, an thou take me in the "Marvel not for
that stead of the ninth image." here thou findest me "No, by Allah, Oh
my in place of that wherefor beloved!" replied Zein thou askedst; and
I ul Asnam. "For that thou deem that thou shalt not art the end of my
seeking, regret nor repent when and I would not exchange thou acceptest
me instead thee for all the jewels in of that thou soughtest." the
world. Didst thou Said he, "No, verily, but know the grief which
thou art the end of every possessed me for thy wish of me nor would
separation, thou whom I I exchange thee for all the took from thy
parents gems of the universe. by fraud and brought thee Would thou knew
what to the King of the Jinn!" was the sorrow which

                                surcharged me on account of
                                our separation and of my
                                reflecting that I took thee
                                from thy parents by fraud
                                and I bore thee as a present
                                to the King of the Jinn.

                                Indeed I had well nigh
                                determined to forfeit all
                                my profit of the Ninth
                                Statue and to bear thee
                                away to Bassorah as my
                                own bride, when my comrade
                                and councillor dissuaded
                                me from so doing lest
                                I bring about my death." [567]

  Scarce had the prince
           Nor had Zayn al Asnam

made an end of his speech ended his words ere they when they heard a noise heard the roar of
thunderings of thunder rending the that would rend a mountains and shaking mount and shake
the the earth, and fear gat earth, whereat the Queen hold upon the queen, the Mother was seized
with mother of Zein ul Asnam, mighty fear and affright. Yea and sore trembling; But presently
appeared but, after a little, the the King of the Jinn, King of the Jinn who said to her, "O
my appeared and said to her, lady, fear not! Tis I, the "O Lady, fear not, it is protector
of thy son, whom I who am thy son's I fondly affect for the protector and I love him affection
borne to me by with an exceeding love his sire. I also am he who for the love his father manifested
myself to him bore me. Nay, I am he in his sleep, and my object who appeared to him in therein
was to make trial his sleep and in this I of his valiance and to learn purposed to try his
an he could do violence to fortitude, whether or not his passions for the sake he might avail
to subdue of his promise, or whether himself for loyalty's the beauty of this lady sake." would
so tempt and allure

                                him that he could not
                                keep his promise to me
                                with due regard."

Here, again, Payne is concise and literal, Burton diffuse and gratuitously paraphrastic as
appears above and everywhere, and the other remarks which we made when dealing with the Nights
proper also apply, except, of course, that in this instance Burton had not Payne's version
to refer to, with the consequence that in these two tales ("Alaeddin" and "Zayn Al Asnam")
there are over five hundred places in which the two translators differ as to the rendering,
although they worked from the same MS. copy, that of M. Houdas, lent by him to Burton and afterwards
to Payne. Arabists tell us that in practically every instance Payne is right, Burton wrong.
The truth is that, while in colloquial Arabic Burton was perfect, in literary Arabic he was
far to seek, [568] whereas Mr. Payne had studied the subject carefully and deeply for years.
But Burton's weakness here is not surprising. A Frenchman might speak excellent English, and
yet find some difficulty in translating into French a play of Shakespeare or an essay of Macaulay.
Burton made the mistake of studying too many things. He attempted too much.

But in the Supplemental Nights, as in the Nights proper, his great feature is the annotating.
Again we have a work within a work, and the value of these notes is recognised on all sides.
Yet they are even less necessary for elucidating the text than those in the Nights proper.
Take for example the tremendous note in Vol. i. on the word "eunuchs." As everybody knows what
a eunuch is, the text is perfectly clear. Yet what a mass of curious knowledge he presents
to us! If it be urged that the bulk of Burton's notes, both to the Nights proper and the Supplemental
Nights, are out of place in a work of this kind--all we can say is "There they are." We must
remember, too, that he had absolutely no other means of publishing them.

Chapter XXXIV. "The Scented Garden"

Bibliography:

77. The Scented Garden. "My new Version," translated 1888-1890.

158. Nafzawi.

As we learn from a letter to Mr. Payne, 8th November 1888, Burton began his "new version" of
The Scented Garden, or as it is sometimes called, The Perfumed Garden, in real earnest early
in that month, and Lady Burton tells us that it "occupied him seriously only six actual months,"
[569] that is, the last six months of his life.

The Scented Garden, or to give its full title, "The Scented Garden for the Soul's Recreation"
was the work of a learned Arab Shaykh and physician named Nafzawi, who was born at Nafzawa,
a white, [570] palm-encinctured town which gleamed by the shore of the Sebkha--that is, salt
marsh--Shot al Jarid; and spent most of his life in Tunis. The date of his birth is unrecorded,
but The Scented Garden seems to have been written in 1431. [571] Nafzawi, like Vatsyayana,
from whose book he sometimes borrows, is credited with having been an intensely religious man,
but his book abounds in erotic tales seasoned to such an extent as would have put to the blush
even the not very sensitive "Tincker of Turvey." [572] It abounds in medical learning, [573]
is avowedly an aphrodisiac, and was intended, if one may borrow an expression from Juvenal,
"to revive the fire in nuptial cinders." [574] Moslems read it, just as they took ambergrised
coffee, and for the same reason. Nafzawi, indeed, is the very antithesis of the English Sir
Thomas Browne, with his well-known passage in the Religio Medici, [575] commencing "I could
be content that we might procreate like trees." Holding that no natural action of a man is
more degrading than another, Nafzawi could never think of amatory pleasures without ejaculating
"Glory be to God," or some such phrase. But "Moslems," says Burton, "who do their best to countermine
the ascetic idea inherent in Christianity, [576] are not ashamed of the sensual appetite, but
rather the reverse." [577] Nafzawi, indeed, praises Allah for amorous pleasures just as other
writers have exhausted the vocabulary in gratitude for a loaded fruit tree or an iridescent
sunset. His mind runs on the houris promised to the faithful after death, and he says that
these pleasures are "part of the delights of paradise awarded by Allah as a foretaste of what
is waiting for us, namely delights a thousand times superior, and above which only the sight
of the Benevolent is to be placed." We who anticipate walls of jasper and streets of gold ought
not, perhaps, to be too severe on the Tunisian. It must also be added that Nafzawi had a pretty
gift of humour. [578]

159. Origin of The Scented Garden.

The origin of the book was as follows: A small work, The Torch of the World, [579] dealing
with "The Mysteries of Generation," and written by Nafzawi, had come into the hands of the
Vizier of the Sultan of Tunis. Thereupon the Vizier sent for the author and received him "most
honourably." Seeing Nafzawi blush, he said, "You need not be ashamed; everything you have said
is true; no one need be shocked at your words. Moreover, you are not the first who has treated
of this matter; and I swear by Allah that it is necessary to know this book. It is only the
shameless boor and the enemy of all science who will not read it, or who will make fun of it.
But there are sundry things which you will have to treat about yet." And he mentioned other
subjects, chiefly of a medical character.

"Oh, my master," replied Nafzawi, "all you have said here is not difficult to do, if it is
the pleasure of Allah on high."

"I forthwith," comments Nafzawi, "went to work with the composition of this book, imploring
the assistance of Allah (May He pour His blessing on the prophet) [580] and may happiness and
pity be with him."

The most complete text of The Scented Garden is that now preserved in the library at Algiers,
and there are also manuscripts in the libraries of Paris, Gotha and Copenhagen. In 1850 a manuscript
which seems to have corresponded practically with The Torch of the World was translated into
French by a Staff Officer of the French Army in Algeria, and an edition of thirty-five copies
was printed by an autographic process in Algiers in the year 1876. [581] In 1886 an edition
of 220 copies was issued by the French publisher Isidore Liseux, and the same year appeared
a translation of Liseux's work bearing the imprint of the Kama Shastra Society. This is the
book that Burton calls "my old version," [582] which, of course, proves that he had some share
in it. [583]

There is no doubt that the average Englishman [584] would be both amazed and shocked on first
opening even the Kama Shastra Society's version; unless, perchance, he had been prepared by
reading Burton's Arabian Nights or the Fiftieth Chapter of Gibbon's Decline and Fall with the
Latin Notes, though even these give but a feeble idea of the fleshiness of The Scented Garden.
Indeed, as Ammianus Marcellinus, referring to the Arabs, says: "Incredible est quo ardore apud
eos in venerem uterque solvitur sexus."

160. Contents of The Scented Garden.

Nafzawi divided his book into twenty one-chapters "in order to make it easier reading for the
taleb (student)." It consists of descriptions of "Praiseworthy Men" and "Praiseworthy Women"
from a Nafzawin point of view, interpretations of dreams, medical recipes for impotence, &c.,
lists of aphrodisiacs, and stories confirmatory of Ammianus's remark. Among the longer tales
are those of Moseilma, "Bahloul [585] and Hamdonna," and "The Negro Al Dhurgham" [586]--all
furiously Fescinnine. The story of Moseilema, Lord of Yamama, is familiar in one form or another
to most students of Arab History. Washington Irving epitomises it in his inexpressibly beautiful
"Successors" of Mahomet [587] and Gibbon [588] tells it more fully, partly in his text and
partly in his Latin footnotes. Moseilema was, no doubt, for some years quite as influential
a prophet as his rival Mohammed. He may even have been as good a man, [589] but Nafzawi--staunch
Mohammedan--will not let "the Whig dogs have the best of the argument." He charges Moseilema
with having perverted sundry chapters in the Koran by his lies and impostures, and declares
that he did worse than fail when he attempted to imitate Mohammed's miracles. "Now Moseilema
(whom may Allah curse!), when he put his luckless hand on the head of some one who had not
much hair, the man was at once quite bald... and when he laid his hand upon the head of an
infant, saying, 'Live a hundred years,' the infant died within an hour." As a matter of fact,
however, Moseilema was one of the most romantic figures in Arabic history. [590] Sedja, Queen
and Prophetess, went to see him in much the same spirit that the Queen of Sheba visited Solomon.
Moseilema, who outlived Mohammed about a year, was defeated and slain near his capital Yamama,
by the Mohammedan hero Khalid, and Sedjah subsequently embraced Islamism.

