By Henry Charles Moore.

THROUGH FLOOD AND FLAME. Adventures and Perils of Protestant Heroes. By Henry Charles Moore.

HEROES OF THE GOODWIN SANDS. By the Rev. T. S. Treanor, M.A.

ON THE INDIAN TRAIL, AND OTHER STORIES OF THE CREE AND SALTEAUX INDIANS. By Egerton R. Young.

REMARKABLE ADVENTURES FROM REAL LIFE.

THROUGH FIRE AND THROUGH WATER. By T. S. Millington.

FRANK LAYTON. An Australian Story. By George E. Sargent.

THE REALM OF THE ICE-KING. A Narrative of Arctic Exploration. By T. Frost.

THE FOSTER-BROTHERS OF DOON. A Tale of the Irish Rebellion. By E. H. Walshe.

THE CAPTAIN'S STORY. By Captain E. F. Brooke-Knight.

STEADFAST AND TRUE. By L. C. Silke. By Henry Charles Moore.

THE LOG OF A SKY-PILOT; or, Work and Adventure around the Goodwin Sands. By T. S. Treanor, M.A.

SAXBY. A Tale of the Commonwealth Time. By Emma Leslie.

WITHIN SEA WALLS. By E. H. Walshe and G. E. Sargent.

THE HEROES OF MOSS HALL SCHOOL. A Public School Story. By E. C. Kenyon.

A GREAT MISTAKE. A Story of Adventure in the Franco-German War. By T. S. Millington.

THE TREASURE OF CHIN-LOO.

LONDON: THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVENTURES IN MANY LANDS

Told by

ALGERNON BLACKWOOD, WILLIAM WEBSTER, ALFRED COLBECK, A. LEE KNIGHT,
And Other Writers.                              245
   By Rowland W. Cater

XVII

A DROWNING MESSMATE                          257
   By A. Lee Knight

XVIII

THE PILOT OF PORT CREEK                      266
   By Burnett Fallow

ADVENTURES IN MANY LANDS

I

A TERRIBLE ADVENTURE WITH HYENAS

There are many mighty hunters, and most of them can tell of many very thrilling adventures
personally undergone with wild beasts; but probably none of them ever went through an experience
equalling that which Arthur Spencer, the famous trapper, suffered in the wilds of Africa.

As the right-hand man of Carl Hagenbach, the great Hamburg dealer in wild animals, for whom
Spencer trapped some of the finest and rarest beasts ever seen in captivity, thrilling adventures
were everyday occurrences to him. The trapper's life is infinitely more exciting and dangerous
than the hunter's, inasmuch as the latter hunts to kill, while the trapper hunts to capture,
and the relative risks are not, therefore, comparable; but Spencer's adventure with the "scavenger
of the wilds," as the spotted hyena is sometimes aptly called, was something so terrible that
even he could not recollect it without shuddering.

He was out with his party on an extended trapping expedition, and one day he chanced to get
separated from his followers; and, partly overcome by the intense heat and his fatigue, he
lay down and fell asleep--about the most dangerous thing a solitary traveller in the interior
of Africa can do. Some hours later, when the scorching sun was beginning to settle down in
the west, he was aroused by the sound of laughter not far away.

For the moment he thought his followers had found him, and were amused to find him taking his
difficulties so comfortably; but hearing the laugh repeated he realised at once that no human
being ever gave utterance to quite such a sound; in fact, his trained ear told him it was the
cry of the spotted hyena. Now thoroughly awake, he sat up and saw a couple of the ugly brutes
about fifty yards away on his left. They were sniffing at the air, and calling. He knew that
they had scented him, but had not yet perceived him.

In such a position, as sure a shot and one so well armed as Spencer was, a man who knew less
about wild animals and their habits would doubtless have sent the two brutes to earth in double
quick time, and thus destroyed himself. But Spencer very well knew from their manner that they
were but the advance-guard of a pack. The appearance of the pack, numbering about one hundred,
coincided with his thought. To tackle the whole party was, of course, utterly out of the question;
to escape by flight was equally out of the question, for hyenas are remarkably fast travellers.

His only possible chance of escape, therefore, was to hoodwink them, if he could, by feigning
to be dead; for it is a characteristic of the hyena to reject flesh that is not putrid. He
threw himself down again, and remained motionless, hoping the beasts would think him, though
dead, yet unfit for food. It was an off-chance, and he well knew it; but there was nothing
else to be done.

In a couple of seconds the advance-guard saw him, and, calling to their fellows, rushed to
him. The pack answered the cry and instantly followed. Spencer felt the brutes running over
him, felt their foul breath on his neck, as they sniffed at him, snapping, snarling, laughing;
but he did not move. One of them took a critical bite at his arm; but he did not stir. They
seemed nonplussed. Another tried the condition of his leg, while many of them pulled at his
clothes, as if in impotent rage at finding him so fresh. But he did not move; in an agony of
suspense he waited motionless.

Presently, to his amazement, he was lifted up by two hyenas, which fixed their teeth in his
ankle and his wrist, and, accompanied by the rest, his bearers set off with him swinging between
them, sometimes fairly carrying him, sometimes simply dragging him, now and again dropping
him for a moment to refix their teeth more firmly in his flesh. Believing him to be dead, they
were conveying him to their retreat, there to devour him when he was in a fit condition. He
fully realised this, but he was powerless to defend himself from such a fate.

How far they carried him Spencer could not tell, for from the pain he was suffering from his
wounds, and the dreadful strain of being carried in such a manner, he fell into semi-consciousness
from time to time; but the distance must have been considerable, for night was over the land
and the sky sparkling with stars before the beasts finally halted; and then they dropped him
in what he knew, by the horrible and overpowering smell peculiar to hyenas, was the cavern
home of the pack. Here he lay throughout the awful night, surrounded by his captors, suffering
acutely from his injuries, thirst, and the vile smell of the place.

When morning broke he found that the pack had already gone out in search of more ready food,
leaving him in charge of two immense brutes, which watched him narrowly all through the day;
for, unarmed as he was, and exhausted, he knew it would be suicide to attempt to tackle his
janitors. He could only wait on chance. Once or twice during the day the beasts tried him with
their teeth, giving unmistakable signs of disgust at the poor progress he was making. At nightfall
they tried him again, and, being apparently hungry, one of them deserted its post and went
off, like the others, in search of food.

This gave the wretched man a glimmering of hope, for he knew that the hyena dislikes its own
company, and that the remaining beast would certainly desert if the pack remained away long
enough. But for hour after hour the animal stayed on duty, never going farther than the mouth
of the cave. When the second morning broke, however, the hyena grew very restless, going out
and remaining away for brief periods. But it always returned, and every time it did so Spencer
naturally imagined it had seen the pack returning, and that the worst was in store for him.
But at length, about noon, the brute went out and did not come back.

Spencer waited and waited, fearing to move lest the creature should only be outside, fearing
to tarry lest he should miss his only chance of escaping. After about an hour of this suspense
he crept to the mouth of the cave. No living creature was within sight. He got upon his faltering
feet, and hurried away as fast as his weakness would permit; but his condition was so deplorable
that he had not covered a mile when he collapsed in a faint.

Fortune, however, favours the brave; and although he fell where he might easily have remained
for years without being discovered, he was found the same day by a party of Boers, who dressed
his wounds, gave him food and drink (which he had not touched for two days), and helped him
by easy stages to the coast.

Being a man of iron constitution, he made a rapid and complete recovery, but his wrist, ankle,
arms, and thigh still bear the marks of the hideous teeth which, but for his marvellous strength
of will, would have torn him, living, to shreds.

II

THE VEGA VERDE MINE

Jim Cayley clambered over the refuse-heaps of the mine, rejoicing in a tremendous appetite
which he was soon to have the pleasure of satisfying.

There was also something else.

Little Toro, the kiddy from Cuba--"Somebody's orphan," the Spaniards of the mine called him,
with a likely hit at the truth--little Toro had been to the Lago Frio with Jim, to see that
he didn't drown of cramp or get eaten by one of the mammoth trout, and had hinted at dark doings
to be wrought that very day, at closing time or thereabouts.

Hitherto, Jim had not quite justified his presence at the Vega Verde mine, some four thousand
feet above sea-level in these wilds of Asturias. To be sure, he was there for his health. But
Mr. Summerfield, the other engineer in partnership with Alfred Cayley, Jim's brother, had,
in a thoughtless moment, termed Jim "an idle young dog," and the phrase had stuck. Jim hadn't
liked it, and tried to say so. Unfortunately, he stammered, and Don Ferdinando (Mr. Summerfield)
had laughed and gone off, saying he couldn't wait.

Now it was Jim's chance. He felt that this was so, and he rejoiced in the sensation as well
as in his appetite and the thought of the excellent soup, omelette, cutlets, and other things
which it was Mrs. Jumbo's privilege to be serving to the three Englishmen (reckoning Jim in
the three) at half-past one o'clock precisely.

Toro had made a great fuss about his news. He was drying Jim at the time, and Jim was saying
that he didn't suppose any other English fellow of fifteen had had such a splendid bathe. There
were snow-peaks in the distance, slowly melting into that lake, which well deserved its name
of "Cold."

"Don Jimmy," said young Toro, pausing with the towel, "what do you think?"

"Think?" said Jimmy. "That I--I--I--I'll punch your black head for you if you don't finish
this j--j--j--job, and b--b--b--be quick about it."

He wasn't really fierce with the Cuban kiddy. The Cuban kiddy himself knew that, and grinned
as he made for Jim's shoulder.

"Yes, Don Jimmy," he said; "don't you worry about that. But I'm telling you a straight secret
this time--no figs about it."

Toro had picked up some peculiar English by association with the Americans who had swamped
his native land after the great war. Still, it was quite understandable English.

"A s--s--s--straight secret! Then j--j--just out with it, or I'll p--p--p--punch your head
for that as well," said Jimmy, rushing his words.

He often achieved remarkable victories over his affliction by rushing his words. He could do
this best with his inferiors, when he hadn't to trouble to think what words he ought to use.
At school he made howling mistakes just because of his respectful regard for the masters and
that sort of thing. They didn't seem to see how he suffered in his kindly consideration of them.

