I hesitated; but I gave her my arm, and, when she had settled herself in the seat beside the
driver's, I walked over to where the agent stood beside the guns and a steamer trunk of modest
size. I picked up the guns and told him to bring over the trunk. Together we put it into the
tonneau, the while I debated with myself what to do and what to say. As a matter of fact, there
seemed to be small choice. The lady was plainly determined to listen to no explanations. Moreover,
to attempt to make her mistake clear to her just now was to place her in an embarrassing predicament;
for whoever was to have met her had failed to appear, and already the station master had began
to extinguish the lights. I caught at her words "the clubhouse." That could be none other than
the Agawan. Well, I would take her there; the trip should be quickly made, and I would do my
best to keep her in ignorance of my identity, at least until she was among friends.

"Now, this is very nice," she said, as I threw in the high gear and we shot into the darkness.
"I've never been in an automobile before; we have very few of them in"--she named a little
town in the South. "You must explain everything to me."

I welcomed the invitation, and promised myself to keep the topic alive as long as there was
need for conversation. But I had hardly begun an enthusiastic exposition of the principles
of a four-cylinder, gear-driven, twenty-horse-power, French touring car, when she checked me.
"I forgot," she said. "We have never met before. We must start fair. You are to call me 'Margery';
I hate 'Miss Gans' from one who is really an old friend. And I shall call you--let me see?--yes,
for the present, I shall call you 'Mr. Page.'"

I started. Who would not have started? "Page" is my Christian name. And I was to call her "Margery"?
For just the briefest moment I wondered if my first impression of my companion could have been
amiss. But I rallied my self-command and such shreds of gallantry as my life and my convictions
had left. Undeniably she was a pretty girl, despite the disguising veil.

"It is a bargain," I said. "I shall hold you to it. But why the 'Mister Page'?"

"Toll to convention," she answered. "Besides, what would Edith say?"

That was a poser. Who in thunder was Edith? But I felt that I was on the right track. "As for
Edith," I returned, "I don't believe she would object."

She shook her head wisely. "Well, per-haps not. But even ten years' friendship has its breaking
point. And a wife----" She stopped there. She seemed to be considering the question.

"Doesn't it depend upon who is the wife?" I interpolated. Now I should learn if it was really
I who was married.

"Yes," she admitted. "But yours! Oh, I know Edith! Better even than you do. I knew her long
before you had even heard of her, and I could have told you things which would have been--useful
to you--if only you had come to me first."

The thought was alluring. "I wish I had," I said, with more fervor than discretion.

She turned upon me quickly, and her face was very close to my own for an instant. Through the
veil I managed to get a glimpse of her eyes. They pleased me immensely. "Why? Why? What do
you mean?" she asked. There was a soft little lift to her voice which affected me queerly.
I made sure that some part of me had made a short circuit with one of the battery wires. Then
she lifted her chin. "But--nonsense!" she said. "How could you? I was in a convent school when
you met and married Edith."

"And you haven't seen her since?"

"Since she was married? You know I haven't, you goose! Why, it is tonight I make my entrée
into the world of fashion?"

"At Agawan," I hazarded.

She nodded. "Where else? And you are to dance with me many times. Remember, I know none of
the men there."

For the first time in my life I ceased to feel scorn for an accomplishment which I did not
possess. But dancing, I reflected, was of the future, and the future must provide against itself.
"Margery" was very much of the present. Then abruptly it occurred to me that the present would
soon be of the past if we continued to travel as we were now moving; and I promptly cut down
our speed by one-half. I explained that the rest of the road to the club was dangerous at night.

She gave a little shiver. "And there is no other road?"

I remembered that there was--a longer road--and at the first turn to the right I took to it.
In a way it was a safer road, and if there was an accident--what would "Edith" say?

We slipped along in silence for a while. Then I asked her if she was warm enough. It was a
balmy evening, with the faintest of air stirring. She laughed.

Her amusement stung me, but I had just identified a landmark, and knew the clubhouse to be
less than a mile away. So I made another brilliant sally. "I am coming to that dance!" I announced.

She regarded me with an amazement which was obvious, though I could not see her face. And then,
"Will you please to tell me," she inquired, "just when you made up your mind to that heroic act?"

After-reflection convinced me that nothing less than a criminal mistake in the mixing of my
Rhine wine and seltzer was responsible for my reply. "Since I saw you," I answered, solemnly.

"Since you saw me?" Then something in the statement, of which I was not immediately aware,
appeared to impress her with its humor. She laughed.

I gave the steering wheel a vicious jerk. We sheered dangerously. She uttered a little, frightened
cry, and her gloved fingers closed upon my wrist. I was absolutely certain I had short-circuited
a battery wire when, her hand still resting on my arm, she pleaded: "Forgive me for laughing.
I remember now that Edith said you did not dance. You are coming this evening just for me,
aren't you?"

What reply was there but the one I made?

"You poor fellow," she went on, and it seemed as if there were a soft pressure from her fingers.
"You poor fellow. But--I tell you what we will do. We will watch the dancing together--as often
as I can steal away. And we will have a long talk by ourselves, if-if----"

"If what?" I asked.

"If Edith doesn't mind!"

"Damn Edith!" was on my tongue, but politeness, rather than common sense, transmuted the sentence.
"Oh, Edith won't mind," I declared, with conviction. And thereat we both laughed--though why,
I am not sure. But all at once we seemed to know each other much better. And then the lights
of the clubhouse came into view across the lawn, and we turned into the big gates.

During the passage of the driveway I devised an explanation. It was intended to salve my conscience
for not plumping out the truth. The Lord alone knows what I intended should ensue. One thing
only was clear to me---we would have that "long talk to ourselves," if it could be contrived.
So it was agreed between us that I was to come up to the dancing floor as soon as I had stabled
the automobile and put on evening clothes. Our exact meeting place was a vague locality described
by her as "wherever Edith is."

With that understanding we parted at the door of the clubhouse. I heard an attendant direct
her to the ladies' dressing room, and him I commissioned to have her trunk conveyed where she
might wish. As she disappeared within the doorway her hat brim gave me a saucy little nod of
farewell.

When I was in my room the enormity of my offense and the absurdity of my position were forced
upon me. Here I was impersonating another man and under promise to meet my victim in the very
presence of the wife of the man I impersonated, perhaps face to face with the man himself.
There could be no explanation, no palliation of the trick I had played, which would allow me
to retire with a resemblance of countenance. Who would credit my statement of innocence, even
was I willing to throw the burden of the mistake on the shoulders of--Margery? Margery! I pronounced
the name aloud, but in a whisper, and liked the sound of it so well that I said it again.

Then I realized that I was standing in front of my shaving mirror, one hand clasping a collar,
the other a tie, and that the glass reflected an expression positively disgusting in its rapture.
I chucked the collar into a corner and sat down on the edge of the bed to think it out. At
the end of twenty minutes I was where I had started in. But my mind was made up. At least she
should not find me a coward. I would do exactly as I had promised.

I shaved and dressed. Half an hour later I was standing in the doorway of the dancing floor
trying to discover where "Edith" was.

But "my wife," if present, inconsiderately was concealing her identity in the faces and figures
of half a hundred or more women, not one of whom I knew. Margery apparently had not yet come
upon the floor, or--the horrid thought obtruded itself--she had discovered who I was, or, rather,
who I was not. And what more likely? I had been an ass not to think of this before. And as
to the consequences? Each possibility was a shade more humiliating than the one before.

Then, just as I was about to turn away to hide myself, to forget myself, anywhere, anyhow,
I saw Margery; and, to save my soul, I could not have left without a lingering look by which
to remember all the sweet lines of her face and figure. Bereft of that long coat and close
veil, for the first time I saw what I had only guessed at before. She had stepped from the
shelter of a palm to lay a detaining hand upon the arm of an older woman; and as she stood
there, with bright eyes regarding the dancers, her head tilted back, the thought of flight
fled from me.

The woman she stood beside was not "Edith," but Mrs. "Ted" Mason--the wife of one of the best
fellows I ever knew, and a stanch friend of mine. Instantly my resolve was made. Mrs. "Ted's"
loyalty should be put to the supreme test. She should be my confessor, and, unless I was mistaken,
the counsel for my defense. I started on my way around the hem of promenaders.

Twice I was delayed by the incursions of dancers, and when I reached the side of my prospective
ally she was alone. Out on the floor a slender figure in lavender was smiling in the face of
her partner--a man I knew I was to dislike exceedingly when I should meet him.

Mrs. "Ted's" eyes grew big when I stood before her. And when she spoke it was with the air
of a tragedy queen. "Do I see aright? Is it you? Or is it your wraith? Is this Page Winslow?
And is this scene of revelry--a dancing floor? Oh, Page, Page! In my old age to give me this
shock is cruel--unlike you--utterly cruel, I say!"

My face burned for the shame I could not conceal, but I was beyond the point where any attack
was to divert me. I explained--lies came so readily now. I was present to-night by promise
to Tony Rennert, I said. Only by engaging to show myself at the dance had I been able to persuade
him to give me his company for a day's shooting. And Tony was detained in the city, and I was
here alone, unprotected, liable at any moment to be seized with stage fright and to swoon.
Such a thing would be disgraceful and embarrassing as well to all my friends--in other words,
to herself. No, I corrected myself, that was not quite true. There was one other person present
who might remember me--a Miss Gans----

"Margery Gans!" Mrs. Ted's amazement left her speechless for a moment. Then, while the first
words of my confession stuck in my throat, she burst out: "And you of all men! Why, she is
just out of a convent school! Tonight is her first! How on earth----?"

It was harder than ever now to say what I was trying to say, and she gave me small opportunity.
"Why? Why?" she resumed, and suddenly her voice took on a gravity which her mischievous eyes
belied. "My dear Page, do you believe in the instrumentality of coincidence?"

My confusion was patent, and she went on. "Because, whatever you have believed, you must believe
in it from this night. Do you know what has happened to Margery Gans?"

"What?" I gasped.

Mrs. "Ted" studied me from beneath lowered lids. "Oh!" she said, and "Oh!" again. Then she
linked her arm in mine. "There are chairs behind this palm," she suggested.

We sat down. "Page," she said, "I would not have believed it of you if you had not told me
yourself."

"What?" I asked, but her gaze was disconcerting; and when she smiled wisely, I did not repeat
the question.

She laid her fan across my hand. "I wonder," she remarked, reflectively, "I wonder how and
when you and Margery met. But, no, that is unfair. Don't tell me. I am very glad you did meet--that
is all. And I was nearer to the truth than I thought when I asked you about coincidences. This
is what I was going to tell you. Margery is the guest to-night of Edith Page--Mrs. Stoughton
Page. At the last moment Edith's baby was taken ill with the croup, and she sent word she could
not leave home. She asked me to act as chaperon. Soon afterward Stoughton Page arrived in his
car with Margery, and must have hurried home at once when he heard the baby was sick, for I
haven't been able to find him. I have told Margery that Mrs. Page was detained at home, but
I have not told her the details, and I don't wish you to. She would think it more serious than
it is, and it would spoil her evening."

I nodded.

"And now," she went on, "the affair is up to you and me. I am chaperon, and you are one of
the few men she appears to know. What are you going to do about it?"

A minute before I would have replied: "Tell her the whole truth." But now a way out of the
immediate complications seemed to present itself--a way beset with difficulties, but still
a way. I made the one reply which seemed to be safe. "Do?" I said. "Do all I can to give Miss
Gans a good time. I don't dance, you know, but----"

"But what?"

"But I'll hang around and talk to her and take her into supper--if she'll let me--and--all
that sort of thing."

"You dear!" cried Mrs. "Ted." "You dear, self-sacrificing thing!" With this last she cocked
a supercilious eye.

"But not if you're going to bait me, or make fun of me afterward," I qualified.

"I wouldn't think of it," declared Mrs. "Ted."

"And you promise not to mention my name to her, not even to allude to me? This sort of thing
is altogether out of my line."

"You surprise me," she said, but she promised.

So it happened that, a little later, in one of those nooks which the genius of decorators devises,
and the man of discernment discovers, Margery and I were having that talk--"all to ourselves."
It developed that we had an affinity of tastes. It was her ambition to travel--she had never
traveled. She delighted in long tramps--heretofore she had found no one to be her companion.
She was sure that automobiling was "just the best sort of fun," judging from the one ride she
had had. And so time slipped by, and I had utterly forgotten "Edith" and the other "Mr. Page,"
and everything else except one thing, when Mrs. "Ted's" voice, just outside the barrier of
foliage which hid us, complained that Miss Gans could not be found anywhere.

Margery heard, and flushed. "Come on," she said. "This is disgraceful." She rose.

"But----" I objected.

"No buts," she insisted. "Have you forgotten Edith?"

"For the time being," I admitted.

She brushed past me. Her bearing was one of indignant scorn. But, over her shoulder, she remarked,
as she looked back: "What a nice place this would be to eat supper."

I replied judiciously that whoever selected it for that purpose should anticipate the supper
hour by early occupation. I added that it was my intention to pass the intervening time in
the smoking room--alone.

She declared that I smoked too much. In Edith's absence, she supposed, it was her duty, etc.
Supper was at twelve o'clock; eleven-thirty seemed to be about the right hour to resume occupation
of the bower.

Mrs. "Ted" saw us coming to her, and waited. Margery presented me. Mrs. "Ted" was properly
grave. She remarked that she had had the honor of knowing the gentleman so long that sometimes
she forgot to put the "Mister" before his name. It was a contagious habit, she had observed.

I withdrew. Mrs. "Ted's" variety is infinite, and I was afraid she would forget--promises.

In the smoking room I got a corner to myself. But, not for long. Three men came and sat down
near by; and, in company with long glasses filled with ice and other things, told stories.
Most of these were of people of whom I knew nothing. But the mention of one name caught my
attention. It was "Stoughton Page." It appeared that he had met with an accident early in the
evening. His automobile had broken down on the way to meet the seven-fifty train, and he had
footed it to the railroad station, only to find that whoever he was to meet there had not come
down. He had crawled back to the club, and somebody called "Bobbie" had towed him to his home.

As I flung away my cigar and left the smoking room, I was more than' ever of the opinion that
Mrs. "Ted's" conclusions upon the instrumentality of coincidence had excellent premises. But
I was wary of another meeting with that lady, and so it wanted only a few minutes of twelve
when my maneuvers brought me, unnoticed, I hoped, to the bower of my seeking. Only to find
it empty. Nor was my search of the floor rewarded by a glimpse of the lavender gown. It was
at this point that I began to call myself names, and it must have been that I spoke one of
them aloud. If not, then mental telepathy had a remarkable demonstration.

"I would hardly call you a 'fool,' Mr. Page," said a laughing voice just behind me. "But, really,
you are just a little shortsighted, aren't you?"

"I am sure I have been looking everywhere," I answered, reproachfully.

"For how long, and for whom?" she inquired.

"Let us discuss it in the bower," I suggested.

"How very improper!" she remarked. But she led the way in, and, for the hour that followed,
the world began and ended for me just where a little semicircle of palms drew its friendly
screen about Margery and me. I believe I ate something; I know I made two forays upon the supper
table and hurried back just in time to come upon Mrs. "Ted," who made a most exasperating face
at me, but said nothing. And I remember recording a mental note of Margery's fondness for sweetbreads
en coquille. But of the rest my recollection retains only the picture of a slender girl in
the depths of a big, cane chair, a slipper impertinently cocked upon the rung of another chair,
the soft light which filtered through the leaves throwing into tantalizing shadow the curves
of a mouth and the hide-and-seek play of blue eyes which were successfully employed in supplying
me with an entirely new set of sensations.

This experience, absorbing to myself, apparently was not without its diversion to the other
party, for there was just enough left of "Home, Sweet Home" to identify the air when Margery
suddenly slipped from the chair, and I, perforce, followed her. "I will be ready in ten minutes,"
she told me. "Meet me downstairs." Then she turned--to run into the arms of Mrs. "Ted."

I waited by. There was no alternative; Mrs. "Ted" held me with a glance that definitely said:
"Flight is at your peril."

She asked Margery a question. I did not catch the words, but Margery's reply was unmistakable.
"Why, of course, Mr. Page will take me home. Edith expects me, you know." And with that she
passed into the dressing room.

Mrs. "Ted's" perplexity would have been comic from another point of view than mine. To me it
was like unto the frown of Jove. There was a little pause before she spoke. "Was there ever
such another man?" she said. "If it was anyone but you, Page, I would tell that girl the truth
at once. Mr. Stoughton Page has not come for her, and has sent no word. I see why, now, though
I don't understand it all, by any means. But--well, I am going to trust the rest to you, only--remember!"

I never liked Mrs. "Ted" as I did at that moment, and my liking was not altogether selfish,
either. As for her "Remember," it was--significant.

But when she had followed Margery, and I was walking slowly down the stairway, an appreciation
of my own position began to obscure every other feeling. A trickle of something cold seemed
to pass down my spine, and I am not accounted timid. In a haze I blundered over to the table.
There I had the sense to sit down and try to fit together the few facts which must guide me.

The proposition shaped itself something like this: Given an automobile and a young woman who
believes you to be the husband of her dearest friend--which you are not--how are you, without
chaperon or voucher, to deliver her, safely and without destruction of her faith in you or
of the good opinion of others for herself, into the keeping of this other man's wife--residence
unknown--at three o'clock in the morning?

I took up the premises separatively. First, the automobile. I lighted the lamps and cranked
the engine. The motor started sweetly, and mentally I checked off the first item. Second, the
young woman. I recalled my experience of the evening, and decided that, as Mrs. "Ted" trusted
me, Margery would have no reason to distrust me. So far so good. Third, "the safe delivery."
That depended upon knowledge of the place we were to reach, and of the roads thereto.

I hunted up a stableman, and asked him for the shortest and best route to Mr. Stoughton Page's
place. He gave me directions. I made him repeat them. As the repetition was a little more confusing
than the original information, I thanked him and decided to stake my chances on the apparent
facts that the traveling was excellent and the distance only eight miles. The devil of it was
there were four turnouts. I suspected that, before I was through, Mr. Stoughton Page's reputation
as an automobile driver would not be undamaged in the estimation of at least one person. But
for that and for what must be when the crisis arrived--well, it was inevitable. I threw in
the clutch and drew out of the stable. At any rate, there were the hours back of me, and Margery
was--Margery. There was sweetness in this thought, and infinite anguish, too.

She met me at the steps, hooded and veiled, and, with a pretty air of possession which made
my heart leap, instructed the doorman to have "the trunk put into the tonneau, please." A minute
later we were off, Mrs. "Ted" watching our departure and calling out: "Remember! I consider
myself responsible for Miss Gans until she is with Mrs. Page!"

"Miss Gans" and "Mrs. Page"! Even to my dull comprehension those formalities conveyed their
warning. A quickened sense of how I stood toward the slender girl, nestled so comfortably in
the seat beside me, stimulated my determination to do nothing, to say nothing, which she could
recall to my shame when--when the time came.

I must have administered my intentions with strictness; for, presently, she said, suppressing
the suspicion of a yawn: "Are you so very tired? Am I such dreadfully slow company?"

"Neither," I said, with emphasis, and stopped there.

She laughed. "You meant to say both. But the automobile does make one silent, doesn't it? And
contented, too. I shall look back on this evening for a long time to come."

"Thank you."

"For what?"

"For the pleasure of your company."

She became very grave over my statement. "If you really mean that, I am very glad," she said.
"For I like you, Mr. Page, 'deed I do. And I will confess you are very different from the picture
I had made of you--for myself."

"For yourself?" I began, quickly, but caught myself and added, with unimpeachable politeness:
"I am flattered that I should improve on acquaintance."

"You surely do," she replied. "Yet it is not so much that you do not look exactly as I had
imagined. It is not that. But, you see, all I had heard of you came from Edith, and she--she
nearly made me loathe you in advance by her continual singing of your praises. I had--yes,
I had about decided to stay away to-night, when I thought it would be better to come and see
for myself."

"And you aren't sorry?"

"Of course not. Haven't I told you?"

"Margery!" I cried. Duty and discretion slipped my mind. Anyhow, I reflected, a woman who would
make a fool of a man as "Edith" had done deserved no consideration. "Margery!" I repeated,
very earnestly, and something in my voice must have warned her.

She uttered a little "Oh!" and drew away from me. But I leaned toward her, and spoke her name
again.

And just then we struck a hummock on the side of the road, and the jolt threw me violently
against the steering wheel. Margery clutched at me and held on. We came to a dead stop, and
she sank back into the seat.

For an instant afterward I wavered between saying what it was in my heart to say and silence.
But my pose was not heroic, and, to speak the entire truth, I was having some difficulty in
regaining my breath. So I got out of the car slowly and explained. Something was wrong with
the machinery, probably a ground wire, broken by the shock. It was nothing at which to be alarmed.
Was she hurt?

She assured me she was not and that alarm was furtherest from her. I began my investigation,
but the broken ground wire was not the only trouble. It I promptly repaired, and still the
engine would not respond to my cranking. There were spasmodic explosions, but they came to
naught. Nor was the trouble due to any one of the half dozen primary accidents for which, in
turn, I made tests. There was a fine, fat spark at the plugs, the vibrator buzzed properly,
the gasoline feed appeared to be adequate, the carburettor was performing its duty, and the
engine did not seem to be overheated. The manifest fact was that the motor would not run. A
few irregular beats, I say, I got out of it by almost winding my arm out of its socket with
the crank, only to have the thing die away before I could regain my seat in the car. In my
desperation I advanced the spark to a point which resulted in a "back kick" so tremendous that
I was nearly thrown into the air.

Margery was patient and sympathetic through it all. She sat very still and watched me. When
at last I came upon the real trouble and she understood from my pause and silence that I was
puzzled by it, she asked: "Will you do something for me?"

"Anything," I answered.

"Then, take all the time you need. It doesn't matter in the least about me. I am very comfortable,
and only sorry I can't help you."

"But you do help me," I said; "you help me a great deal. If you only knew how much, you----"

"Tell me about it," she put in quickly--"what it is that has made us stop."

I obeyed reluctantly. "It is this little spring." I held it up. "You see, it closes the valve,
and the end of it is broken, and the valve does not act as it should. The worst of the thing
is that I have no substitute with me."

"And you can't mend the spring?"

"I'm going to try. But I must keep you waiting--perhaps quite a while."

"And that is all that is worrying you? Won't you forget I am here?"

"The one thing I cannot do," I answered. I dropped the spring and stepped to the side of the
car. "Margery!" I said. "Margery, don't you understand? I can't forget."

"But you have forgotten!" she interposed instantly. "You have forgotten Edith."

"Edith!" I ejaculated, in exasperation. "Edith may go to the devil for all I care!"

"Mr. Page!" she cried. There was no trace of raillery in her voice. I had hurt her, and I knew,
even in that moment, that for this she would never forgive me, unless--unless----

I told her the truth. "I am not Mr. Page," I said, bluntly.

She leaned forward and gazed at me in blank amazement. But what she was able to see of my face
must have convinced her that I spoke the truth. "Not Mr. Page?" she echoed, faintly, and shrank
from me.

"No," I said; "my name is Winslow. And I am not married to Edith, or to anyone else. Mr. Stoughton
Page, so far as I know, is at home and has been all evening."

I waited for her to speak, but she sat very still, her hands dropped in her lap, her head turned
from me, and I thought that I knew a little of what she was thinking, and every second, which
passed made it harder for me to have her think this.

"Let me tell you something," I said at last. "It was a mistake, and it was all my fault. I
did not know who you were when I first saw you. I only thought of taking you quickly to the
club and leaving you there before you should find out that I was not the person I let you think
I was. But on the way to the club I--I--it seemed to me as if I must have known you all my
life. And then--I saw Mrs. Mason, and she has been my friend for so long, and--everything helped
me. So, when no one came to take you home, I could not bear to give you up that way and maybe
never see you again. And I did--what I did. And--that is all."

She had not moved while I spoke and her face was denied me. But now she looked up. The veil
hid her eyes; I could only guess at what was in her mind.

"You let me call you 'Mr. Page'?" she said, after a moment.

"Page is my first name," I answered.

She gave a little gasp. Somehow, I felt that my case was not so nearly hopeless. "And Mrs.
Mason--did she--was she also helping to deceive me?" she asked.

"She thought it was Mr. Stoughton Page who brought you to the club. She never knew, until we
were leaving, that you did not know who I was. Oh, it was all my fault, all my fault, I tell
you!" I finished, as she regarded me in silence. "I let you think everything you did--I never
tried to help you out, after the first, because I couldn't. I loved you, Margery."

"You took a strange way to prove it," she returned.

Her head was thrown back, her gloved hands pressed together. "Oh! oh! I hate you! It was contemptible!
To take advantage of my trust! To lie to me! How could you do it?"

I turned away miserable, bitter with myself. And all the while I worked on the valve, stretching
the spring so it would do its work and replacing the part, she said nothing. Even when I had
started the engine and found it to work smoothly and climbed back in the car, she was silent.
But she drew away from me with a movement which was unmistakable.

The east had begun to lighten long since, and there was a white streak along the horizon, streaked
with the clearest of amber and rose, as we came to a crossroad, a mile on, and I got a glimpse
of a signpost. If its information was correct, I had made the turns in the road aright, and
we were within half a mile of our destination. A minute later we topped a slope, and I marked
down a large, stone house which answered the description I had from the club stableman. It
was approached by a driveway bordered with trees and shrubbery.

I brought the car to a stop at the gates. "I believe this is Mr. Page's place," I said.

"Yes," she said. It was the first word she had spoken since she knew who I was.

"And before we go in," I went on, "I thought you might wish to tell me who I am to be."

"I have nothing to do with that," she answered. "Please take me to the house."

"But," I insisted, "they will probably ask questions. If they do not, they will wonder. And
I can hardly be a stranger to you--under the circumstances."

"You will please take me to the house," she repeated.

I started up the driveway, and once or twice it seemed to me she was about to speak. But she
did not, and at the steps I got down and rang the bell. It was a matter of five minutes before
there was response. Then there came the faint sound of footsteps from within, and the door
was opened. A tall man, in dressing gown, candle in hand, sleep in his eyes, replied to my
inquiry. Yes, this was Mr. Stoughton Page's house, and he was Mr. Page. What did I want?

Before I could explain, a voice spoke at my elbow, and Margery stepped into the flickering
circle of light. "Only to ask you for shelter," she said.

The man in the dressing gown stared at her, then recognition sprang into his face, and he put
down the candle hastily. "Margery Gans!" he cried.

"None other," she answered. "Margery Gans, at your service, or, rather, at your door, and,
with her, Mr. Page Winslow, to whom she owes her presence here and an evening of experiences
besides. We are just from the dance at the club, at which, sir, you failed me. Is it a welcome,
or must we go further?"

He held the door open and began to explain. Presently he realized that I was standing by, and
urged me to come in. But I said no, I must return to the club, and all the while I looked at
Margery, hoping for some little sign.

But she kept her face resolutely upon her host, and said nothing. Then, as I turned to go,
she laid a hand upon his arm. "Oh!" she exclaimed, "I had almost forgotten my trunk! It is
in the car. Could you find some one to bring it in?"

"Of course," he said, and turned back into the house. She threw a swift look over her shoulder,
raised her veil, and stepped to the doorway. She held out both her hands.

I took them in mine. What I did concerned only us two. "Good-by, Margery," I said at last.

"No, no, not really good-by," she answered. "Just good-by for a little while----" She faltered.

"Page," I prompted.

"My 'Mr. Page,'" she repeated, softly, and, at the sound of returning footsteps, slipped from
me into the dimness of the hall, and was gone.

THE GIFTS OF GOLD

  Desire of joy--how keen, how keen it is!
    (Oh, the young heart--the young heart in its Spring!)
  There waits adventure on the road of bliss--
    A challenge in each note the free birds fling;
  The spur of pride to dare us climb and kiss--
  Desire of joy--how keen, how keen it is!

  Desire of tears--but this is sweet, most sweet!
    (Oh, the young heart--the young heart in its Spring!)
  That sits a little while at Sorrow's feet
    And tastes of pain as some forbidden thing,
  That draught where all things sweet and bitter meet--
  Desire of tears--ah me, but it is sweet!

  Desire of joy and tears--ah, gifts of gold! Necklaces
were still borne on the charred but once beautiful necks of the women,
and bracelets encircled their slender wrists. Thrice around the
skeleton arm of one wound a chain of gold, and priceless stones were
set in rings that still clung to the agony-clinched fingers of those
that there had faced the fatal fumes of Vesuvius.

As one reflects upon these discoveries, he is at first inclined to philosophize on the slightness
wrought by time in woman's nature. For were not all these blazing gems and precious metals
but proof that the jewel madness that burns in her veins to-day has coursed through woman's
veins throughout the ages?

