  It would be
well if one so young had a little more diffidence himself, and more trust in the honest purposes
of others,--if he could be brought to believe that old customs need not necessarily be evil,
and that changes may possibly be dangerous; but no, Bold has all the ardour and all the self-assurance
of a Danton, and hurls his anathemas against time-honoured practices with the violence of a
French Jacobin.

No wonder that Dr Grantly should regard Bold as a firebrand, falling, as he has done, almost
in the centre of the quiet ancient close of Barchester Cathedral.  Dr Grantly would have him
avoided as the plague; but the old Doctor and Mr Harding were fast friends.  Young Johnny Bold
used to play as a boy on Mr Harding's lawn; he has many a time won the precentor's heart by
listening with rapt attention to his sacred strains; and since those days, to tell the truth
at once, he has nearly won another heart within the same walls.

Eleanor Harding has not plighted her troth to John Bold, nor has she, perhaps, owned to herself
how dear to her the young reformer is; but she cannot endure that anyone should speak harshly
of him.  She does not dare to defend him when her brother-in-law is so loud against him; for
she, like her father, is somewhat afraid of Dr Grantly; but she is beginning greatly to dislike
the archdeacon.  She persuades her father that it would be both unjust and injudicious to banish
his young friend because of his politics; she cares little to go to houses where she will not
meet him, and, in fact, she is in love.

Nor is there any good reason why Eleanor Harding should not love John Bold.  He has all those
qualities which are likely to touch a girl's heart.  He is brave, eager, and amusing; well-made
and good-looking; young and enterprising; his character is in all respects good; he has sufficient
income to support a wife; he is her father's friend; and, above all, he is in love with her:
then why should not Eleanor Harding be attached to John Bold?

Dr Grantly, who has as many eyes as Argus, and has long seen how the wind blows in that direction,
thinks there are various strong reasons why this should not be so.  He has not thought it wise
as yet to speak to his father-in-law on the subject, for he knows how foolishly indulgent is
Mr Harding in everything that concerns his daughter; but he has discussed the matter with his
all-trusted helpmate, within that sacred recess formed by the clerical bed-curtains at Plumstead
Episcopi.

How much sweet solace, how much valued counsel has our archdeacon received within that sainted
enclosure!  'Tis there alone that he unbends, and comes down from his high church pedestal
to the level of a mortal man.  In the world Dr Grantly never lays aside that demeanour which
so well becomes him.  He has all the dignity of an ancient saint with the sleekness of a modern
bishop; he is always the same; he is always the archdeacon; unlike Homer, he never nods.  Even
with his father-in-law, even with the bishop and dean, he maintains that sonorous tone and
lofty deportment which strikes awe into the young hearts of Barchester, and absolutely cows
the whole parish of Plumstead Episcopi.  'Tis only when he has exchanged that ever-new shovel
hat for a tasselled nightcap, and those shining black habiliments for his accustomed robe de
nuit, that Dr Grantly talks, and looks, and thinks like an ordinary man.

