Mr. HORACE BLEACKLEY, whose last excursion into political fiction was a description of an opéra-bouffe
Labour Government in action, addresses himself, in The Monster (HEINEMANN), to a more serious
theme. His monster is the factory system, and if I say that this witty novel will provide the
ignorant and comfortable with instruction as well as entertainment I hope I shan't have done
him any harm. The author, while making his points against the system, notes truly enough that
the risen ranker, the one who had been through the dreadful mill, with its ninety-hour working
week for children, became the hardest master during that wonderful period of the Manchesterising
of England which laid the train for the explosions of our present discontents. He reminds us
also of that admirable speech, made about every ten years for the last hundred or so in the
House with the same fervour and conviction, to the effect that any change in conditions or
wages would surely mean the complete ruin of the country. A comforting speech, that! Perhaps
Mr. BLEACKLEY, presenting three generations from Peterloo to the Jubilee of QUEEN VICTORIA,
covers too much ground for full effect, but he has pleasantly gilded a wholesome pill for pleasant
people. Good luck to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

I did not take the publishers' statement that Pengard Awake (METHUEN) was "entirely unlike
Mr. STRAUS'S previous stories" as a recommendation, however alluring it was intended to be,
for he has good and enjoyable work to his credit. I doubt, indeed, if he has yet written a
book more acceptable to the novel-reading public than this tale of "action, mystery and wonderful
adventures" (again I quote from the paper wrapper). Possibly in a so-called mystery book the
author ought to have his readers guessing all the time, but if I was not perpetually engaged
in this rather exhausting pursuit I was, at any rate, intrigued. Pengard, who is also Sylvester,
and yet is neither the one nor the other, may be too much for your saner moments of credulity.
But Mr. STRAUS tells his queer story so plausibly and with so light a touch that even though
you may affect to scoff at his dashing improbabilities you cannot escape their attraction.
Indeed Mr. STRAUS'S adventure into fields hitherto strange to him has been so successful that
I am inclined to ask him to continue cultivating them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Life's Little Contradictions.

"Now mind, you know, if I kill you it's nothing, but if you kill me, by Jingo, it's murder."
This remark was put by JOHN LEECH into the lips of a small Special Constable, represented as
menacing a gigantic ruffian, and was not, as you might think, addressed by a Sinn Feiner to
a member of the Royal Irish Constabulary.

       *       *       *       *       *

Messrs. W. H. Smith & Son.

Mr. Punch wishes to offer the most sincere congratulations to his old friends on the occasion
of the centenary of their firm.