The bridegroom looked up, saw the decked-out skull, thought it was his bride, and nodded to
her, greeting her kindly. But when he and his guests had all gone into the house, the brothers
and kinsmen of the bride, who had been sent to rescue her, arrived. They locked all the doors
of the house, that no one might escape, set fire to it, and the wizard and all his crew had
to burn. Now there was a court-yard in front of their house in which was a juniper-tree, and
one day in winter the woman was standing beneath it, paring herself an apple, and while she
was paring herself the apple she cut her finger, and the blood fell on the snow.  "Ah," said
the woman, and sighed right heavily, and looked at the blood before her, and was most unhappy,
"ah, if I had but a child as red as blood and as white as snow!" And while she thus spake,
she became quite happy in her mind, and felt just as if that were going to happen. Then she
was quite comforted and happy until the next month was over, and then she had a child as white
as snow and as red as blood, and when she beheld it she was so delighted that she died.

Then her husband buried her beneath the juniper-tree, and he began to weep sore; after some
time he was more at ease, and though he still wept he could bear it, and after some time longer
he took another wife.

By the second wife he had a daughter, but the first wife's child was a little son, and he was
as red as blood and as white as snow. When the woman looked at her daughter she loved her very
much, but then she looked at the little boy and it seemed to cut her to the heart, for the
thought came into her mind that he would always stand in her way, and she was for ever thinking
how she could get all the fortune for her daughter, and the Evil One filled her mind with this
till she was quite wroth with the little boy, and slapped him here and cuffed him there, until
the unhappy child was in continual terror, for when he came out of school he had no peace in
any place. This made the woman angry, but she said, "Yes, when he comes out of school." And
when she saw from the window that he was coming, it was just as if the Devil entered into her,
and she snatched at the apple and took it away again from her daughter, and said, "Thou shalt
not have one before thy brother." Then she threw the apple into the chest, and shut it. Then
the little boy came in at the door, and the Devil made her say to him kindly, "My son, wilt
thou have an apple?" and she looked wickedly at him. "Mother," said the little boy, "how dreadful
you look! Yes, give me an apple." Then it seemed to her as if she were forced to say to him,
"Come with me," and she opened the lid of the chest and said, "Take out an apple for thyself,"
and while the little boy was stooping inside, the Devil prompted her, and crash! she shut the
lid down, and his head flew off and fell among the red apples. Then she was overwhelmed with
terror, and thought, "If I could but make them think that it was not done by me!" So she went
upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a white handkerchief out of the top
drawer, and set the head on the neck again, and folded the handkerchief so that nothing could
be seen, and she set him on a chair in front of the door, and put the apple in his hand.

After this Marlinchen came into the kitchen to her mother, who was standing by the fire with
a pan of hot water before her which she was constantly stirring round. "Go back to him," said
her mother, "and if he will not answer thee, give him a box on the ear." Marlinchen was terrified,
and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, and said, "Alas, mother, I have knocked
my brother's head off!" and she wept and wept and could not be comforted. "Marlinchen," said
the mother, "what hast thou done?  but be quiet and let no one know it; it cannot be helped
now, we will make him into black-puddings." Then the mother took the little boy and chopped
him in pieces, put him into the pan and made him into black puddings; but Marlinchen stood
by weeping and weeping, and all her tears fell into the pan and there was no need of any salt.

Then the father came home, and sat down to dinner and said, "But where is my son?" And the
mother served up a great dish of black-puddings, and Marlinchen wept and could not leave off.
Then the father again said, "But where is my son?"  "Ah," said the mother, "he has gone across
the country to his mother's great uncle; he will stay there awhile." "And what is he going
to do there? He did not even say good-bye to me."

"Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me if he might stay six weeks, he is well taken care of there."
"Ah," said the man, "I feel so unhappy lest all should not be right.  He ought to have said
good-bye to me." With that he began to eat and said, "Marlinchen, why art thou crying? Thy
brother will certainly come back." Then he said, "Ah, wife, how delicious this food is, give
me some more." And the more he ate the more he wanted to have, and he said, "Give me some more,
you shall have none of it. It seems to me as if it were all mine." And he ate and ate and threw
all the bones under the table, until he had finished the whole. But Marlinchen went away to
her chest of drawers, and took her best silk handkerchief out of the bottom drawer, and got
all the bones from beneath the table, and tied them up in her silk handkerchief, and carried
them outside the door, weeping tears of blood. Then the juniper-tree began to stir itself,
and the branches parted asunder, and moved together again, just as if some one was rejoicing
and clapping his hands. At the same time a mist seemed to arise from the tree, and in the centre
of this mist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the fire singing magnificently,
and he flew high up in the air, and when he was gone, the juniper-tree was just as it had been
before, and the handkerchief with the bones was no longer there. Marlinchen, however, was as
gay and happy as if her brother were still alive. And she went merrily into the house, and
sat down to dinner and ate.

The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a gold chain, when he heard the bird which
was sitting singing on his roof, and very beautiful the song seemed to him. He stood up, but
as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers.  But he went away right up the middle
of the street with one shoe on and one sock; he had his apron on, and in one hand he had the
gold chain and in the other the pincers, and the sun was shining brightly on the street. Then
he went right on and stood still, and said to the bird, "Bird," said he then, "how beautifully
thou canst sing! Sing me that piece again." "No," said the bird, "I'll not sing it twice for
nothing! Give me the golden chain, and then I will sing it again for thee." "There," said the
goldsmith, "there is the golden chain for thee, now sing me that song again." Then the bird
came and took the golden chain in his right claw, and went and sat in front of the goldsmith,
and sang,

 "My mother she killed me,
 My father he ate me,
 My sister, little Marlinchen,
 Gathered together all my bones,
 Tied them in a silken handkerchief,
 Laid them beneath the juniper-tree,

 Kywitt, kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!" "Bird," said he, "how beautifully thou
canst sing!" Then he called in at his door, "Wife, just come outside,
there is a bird, look at that bird, he just can sing well." Then he
called his daughter and children, and apprentices, boys and girls, and
they all came up the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful
he was, and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how like real
gold his neck was, and how the eyes in his head shone like stars. "Bird,"
said the shoemaker, "now sing me that song again." "Nay," said the bird,
"I do not sing twice for nothing; thou must give me something." "Wife,"
said the man, "go to the garret, upon the top shelf there stands a pair
of red shoes, bring them down."  Then the wife went and brought the
shoes. "There, bird," said the man, "now sing me that piece again."

And when he had sung the whole he flew away. In his right claw he had the chain and the shoes
in his left, and he flew far away to a mill, and the mill went, "klipp klapp, klipp klapp,
klipp klapp," and in the mill sat twenty miller's men hewing a stone, and cutting, hick hack,
hick hack, hick hack, and the mill went klipp klapp, klipp klapp, klipp klapp. Then the bird
went and sat on a lime-tree which stood in front of the mill, and sang,

 "My mother she killed me,"

Then one of them stopped working,

 "My father he ate me."

Then the last stopped also, and heard the last words. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully thou
singest! Let me, too, hear that. Sing that once more for me."

"Nay," said the bird, "I will not sing twice for nothing. Give me the millstone, and then I
will sing it again."

"Yes," said he, "if it belonged to me only, thou shouldst have it."

"Yes," said the others, "if he sings again he shall have it." Then the bird came down, and
the twenty millers all set to work with a beam and raised the stone up. "Nay," said the mother,
"I feel so uneasy, just as if a heavy storm were coming." Marlinchen, however, sat weeping
and weeping, and then came the bird flying, and as it seated itself on the roof the father
said, "Ah, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside, I feel just
as if I were about to see some old friend again." "Nay," said the woman, "I feel so anxious,
my teeth chatter, and I seem to have fire in my veins." And she tore her stays open, but Marlinchen
sat in a corner crying, and held her plate before her eyes and cried till it was quite wet.

 "My sister, little Marlinchen,"

Then Marlinchen laid her head on her knees and wept without ceasing, but the man said, "I am
going out, I must see the bird quite close." "Oh, don't go," said the woman, "I feel as if
the whole house were shaking and on fire." Then he went in and said, "Just look what a fine
bird that is, and what a handsome gold chain he has given me, and how pretty he is!" But the
woman was terrified, and fell down on the floor in the room, and her cap fell off her head.
Then sang the bird once more,

 "My mother she killed me."

"Would that I were a thousand feet beneath the earth so as not to hear that!"

 "My father he ate me,"

Then the woman fell down again as if dead.

 "My sister, little Marlinchen,"

"Ah," said Marlinchen, "I too will go out and see if the bird will give me anything," and she
went out.

 "Gathered together all my bones,
 Tied them in a silken handkerchief,"

Then he threw down the shoes to her.

Then she was light-hearted and joyous, and she put on the new red shoes, and danced and leaped
into the house. "Ah," said she, "I was so sad when I went out and now I am so light-hearted;
that is a splendid bird, he has given me a pair of red shoes!" "Well," said the woman, and
sprang to her feet and her hair stood up like flames of fire, "I feel as if the world were
coming to an end! I, too, will go out and see if my heart feels lighter." And as she went out
at the door, crash! the bird threw down the millstone on her head, and she was entirely crushed
by it.  The father and Marlinchen heard what had happened and went out, and smoke, flames,
and fire were rising from the place, and when that was over, there stood the little brother,
and he took his father and Marlinchen by the hand, and all three were right glad, and they
went into the house to dinner, and ate.

48 Old Sultan

A farmer once had a faithful dog called Sultan, who had grown old, and lost all his teeth,
so that he could no longer hold anything fast. One day the farmer was standing with his wife
before the house-door, and said, "To-morrow I intend to shoot Old Sultan, he is no longer of
any use."

His wife, who felt pity for the faithful beast, answered, "He has served us so long, and been
so faithful, that we might well give him his keep."

"Eh! what?" said the man. "You are not very sharp. He has not a tooth left in his mouth, and
not a thief is afraid of him; now he may be off. If he has served us, he has had good feeding
for it."

The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, had heard everything, and
was sorry that the morrow was to be his last day. He had a good friend, the wolf, and he crept
out in the evening into the forest to him, and complained of the fate that awaited him. "Hark
ye, gossip," said the wolf, "be of good cheer, I will help you out of your trouble. I have
thought of something.  To-morrow, early in the morning, your master is going with his wife
to make hay, and they will take their little child with them, for no one will be left behind
in the house. They are wont, during work-time, to lay the child under the hedge in the shade;
you lay yourself there too, just as if you wished to guard it. Then I will come out of the
wood, and carry off the child. You must rush swiftly after me, as if you would seize it again
from me. I will let it fall, and you will take it back to its parents, who will think that
you have saved it, and will be far too grateful to do you any harm; on the contrary, you will
be in high favor, and they will never let you want for anything again."

The plan pleased the dog, and it was carried out just as it was arranged. The father screamed
when he saw the Wolf running across the field with his child, but when Old Sultan brought it
back, then he was full of joy, and stroked him and said, "Not a hair of yours shall be hurt,
you shall eat my bread free as long as you live." And to his wife he said, "Go home at once
and make Old Sultan some bread-sop that he will not have to bite, and bring the pillow out
of my bed, I will give him that to lie upon."

Henceforth Old Sultan was as well off as he could wish to be.

Soon afterwards the wolf visited him, and was pleased that everything had succeeded so well.
"But, gossip," said he, "you will just wink an eye if when I have a chance, I carry off one
of your master's fat sheep." "Do not reckon upon that," answered the dog; "I will remain true
to my master; I cannot agree to that."  The wolf, who thought that this could not be spoken
in earnest, came creeping about in the night and was going to take away the sheep. But the
farmer, to whom the faithful Sultan had told the wolf's plan, caught him and dressed his hide
soundly with the flail. The wolf had to pack off, but he cried out to the dog, "Wait a bit,
you scoundrel, you shall pay for this."

The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest so
that they might settle the affair. Old Sultan could find no one to stand by him but a cat with
only three legs, and as they went out together the poor cat limped along, and at the same time
stretched out her tail into the air with pain.

The wolf and his friend were already on the spot appointed, but when they saw their enemy coming
they thought that he was bringing a sabre with him, for they mistook the outstretched tail
of the cat for one. And when the poor beast hopped on its three legs, they could only think
every time that it was picking up a stone to throw at them. So they were both afraid; the wild
boar crept into the under-wood and the wolf jumped up a tree.

The dog and the cat, when they came up, wondered that there was no one to be seen. The wild
boar, however, had not been able to hide himself altogether; and one of his ears was still
to be seen. Whilst the cat was looking carefully about, the boar moved his ear; the cat, who
thought it was a mouse moving there, jumped upon it and bit it hard. The boar made a fearful
noise and ran away, crying out, "The guilty one is up in the tree." The dog and cat looked
up and saw the wolf, who was ashamed of having shown himself so timid, and made friends with
the dog. When evening drew near he stopped and looked around him, and then he saw that he had
lost his way. He sought a way out, but could find none. Then he perceived an aged woman with
a head which nodded perpetually, who came towards him, but she was a witch. "Good woman," said
he to her, "Can you not show me the way through the forest?" "Oh, yes, Lord King," she answered,
"that I certainly can, but on one condition, and if you do not fulfil that, you will never
get out of the forest, and will die of hunger in it."

"What kind of condition is it?" asked the King.

"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as any one in the world, and
well deserves to be your consort, and if you will make her your Queen, I will show you the
way out of the forest." As he now feared that the step-mother might not treat them well, and
even do them some injury, he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.
It lay so concealed, and the way was so difficult to find that he himself would not have found
it, if a wise woman had not given him a ball of yarn with wonderful properties. When he threw
it down before him, it unrolled itself and showed him his path. The King, however, went so
frequently away to his dear children that the Queen observed his absence; she was curious and
wanted to know what he did when he was quite alone in the forest. She gave a great deal of
money to his servants, and they betrayed the secret to her, and told her likewise of the ball
which alone could point out the way. And now she knew no rest until she had learnt where the
King kept the ball of yarn, and then she made little shirts of white silk, and as she had learnt
the art of witchcraft from her mother, she sewed a charm inside them. And once when the King
had ridden forth to hunt, she took the little shirts and went into the forest, and the ball
showed her the way. The children, who saw from a distance that some one was approaching, thought
that their dear father was coming to them, and full of joy, ran to meet him. Next day the King
went to visit his children, but he found no one but the little girl. The King mourned, but
he did not think that the Queen had done this wicked deed, and as he feared that the girl would
also be stolen away from him, he wanted to take her away with him. But she was afraid of her
step-mother, and entreated the King to let her stay just this one night more in the forest castle.

The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here. I will go and seek my brothers." And when
night came, she ran away, and went straight into the forest.  She walked the whole night long,
and next day also without stopping, until she could go no farther for weariness. Then she saw
a forest-hut, and went into it, and found a room with six little beds, but she did not venture
to get into one of them, but crept under one, and lay down on the hard ground, intending to
pass the night there. Just before sunset, however, she heard a rustling, and saw six swans
come flying in at the window. They alighted on the ground and blew at each other, and blew
all the feathers off, and their swan's skins stripped off like a shirt. Then the maiden looked
at them and recognized her brothers, was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed. The brothers
were not less delighted to see their little sister, but their joy was of short duration. "Here
canst thou not abide," they said to her. "This is a shelter for robbers, if they come home
and find thee, they will kill thee." "But can you not protect me?" asked the little sister.
"No," they replied, "only for one quarter of an hour each evening can we lay aside our swan's
skins and have during that time our human form; after that, we are once more turned into swans."
The little sister wept and said, "Can you not be set free?" "Alas, no," they answered, "the
conditions are too hard! For six years thou mayst neither speak nor laugh, and in that time
thou must sew together six little shirts of starwort for us. And if one single word falls from
thy lips, all thy work will be lost." And when the brothers had said this, the quarter of an
hour was over, and they flew out of the window again as swans.

The maiden, however, firmly resolved to deliver her brothers, even if it should cost her her
life. She left the hut, went into the midst of the forest, seated herself on a tree, and there
passed the night. Next morning she went out and gathered starwort and began to sew. She could
not speak to any one, and she had no inclination to laugh; she sat there and looked at nothing
but her work. When she had already spent a long time there it came to pass that the King of
the country was hunting in the forest, and his huntsmen came to the tree on which the maiden
was sitting. They called to her and said, "Who art thou?" But she made no answer. "Come down
to us," said they. "We will not do thee any harm." She only shook her head. As they pressed
her further with questions she threw her golden necklace down to them, and thought to content
them thus. They, however, did not cease, and then she threw her girdle down to them, and as
this also was to no purpose, her garters, and by degrees everything that she had on that she
could do without until she had nothing left but her shift. The huntsmen, however, did not let
themselves be turned aside by that, but climbed the tree and fetched the maiden down and led
her before the King. The King asked, "Who art thou? What art thou doing on the tree?" But she
did not answer. He put the question in every language that he knew, but she remained as mute
as a fish. As she was so beautiful, the King's heart was touched, and he was smitten with a
great love for her. He put his mantle on her, took her before him on his horse, and carried
her to his castle. Then he caused her to be dressed in rich garments, and she shone in her
beauty like bright daylight, but no word could be drawn from her. He placed her by his side
at table, and her modest bearing and courtesy pleased him so much that he said, "She is the
one whom I wish to marry, and no other woman in the world." And after some days he united himself
to her.

