"Now they were rigged more for long marching, in fur caps, khaki coats of new issue with woollen
lining, and many carried Alpine poles, for in some places the going was hard.

"From our sled supply every man was given a package of Red Cross cigarettes, and every man
was asked if he had received his Christmas stocking. They all had. I dined, by the way, with
General Ironside last night, and he was very strong in his praise for this particular body
of men who have seen strenuous service and are in for more."

One of the most memorable events in the history of a company of Americans in Russia was the
march from Archangel to Pinega, one hundred and fifty miles in dead of winter. The first and
fourth platoons made the forced march December 18th to 27th inclusive, hurrying to the relief
of two platoons of another company with its back to the wall.

Two weeks later the second and third platoons came through the same march even faster, although
it was forty degrees below zero on three days, for it was told at Archangel that the other
half of "M" Company was in imminent danger of extermination.

The last instructions for the march, given in the old Smolny barracks, are typical of march
orders to American soldiers:

"We march tomorrow on Pinega. Many versts but not all in one day. We shall quarter at night
in villages, some friendly, some hostile. We may meet enemy troops. We march one platoon ahead,
one behind the 60-sleigh convoy. Alert advance and rear parties to protect the column from
surprise.

"Ours is a two-fold mission: First, to reinforce a half of another company which is now outnumbered
ten to one; second, to raise a regiment of loyal Russian troops in the great Pinega Valley
where half the people are loyal and half are Bolo sympathizers. We hold the balance of power.
Hold up your chins and push out your chests and bear your arms proudly when passing among the
Russian people. You represent the nation that was slow to wrath but irresistible in might when
its soldiers hit the Hindenburg Line. Make Russians respect your military bearing. The loyal
will breathe more freely because you have come. The treacherous Bolo sympathizers will be compelled
to wipe off their scowls and will fear to try any dirty work.

"And further, just as important, remember not only to bear yourselves as soldiers of a powerful
people, but bear yourselves as men of a courteous, generous, sympathetic, chivalrous people.
Treat these simple people right and you win their devoted friendship. Respect their oddities.
Do not laugh at them as do untactful soldiers of another nation. Molest no man's property except
of military necessity. You will discover likable traits in the character of these Russians.
Here, as everywhere in the world, in spite of differences of language and customs, of dress
and work and play and eating and housing, strangers among foreign people will find that in
the essentials of life folks is folks.

"You will wear your American field shoes and Arctics in preference to the clumsy and slippery
bottomed Shackleton boot. Overcoats will be piled loosely on top of sleighs so as to be available
when delay is long. Canteens will be filled each evening at Company "G-I" can. Drink no water
in villager's home. You may buy milk. Everyone must protect his health. We have no medical
man and only a limited supply of number nines.

"Tomorrow at noon we march. Prepare carefully and cheerfully."

The following account of the march is copied from the daily story written in an officer's diary:

To OUIMA--FIRST DAY, DECEMBER 18TH

After the usual delay with sleigh drivers, with shoutings and "brrs" and shoving and pullings,
the convoy was off at 11:55 a. m. December 18. The trail was an improved government road. The
sun was on our right hand but very low. The fire station of Smolny at last dropped out of the
rearward view. The road ran crooked, like the Dvina along whose hilly banks it wound. A treat
to our boys to see rolling, cleared country. Fish towns and lumber towns on the right. Hay
stacks and fields on the left, backed by forests. Here the trail is bareswept by the wind from
across the river. Again it is snow blown and men and ponies slacken speed in the drifts. Early
sets the sun, but the white snow affords us light enough. The point out of sight in front,
the rear party is lost behind the curve. Tiny specks on the ice below and distant are interpreted
to be sledges bound for some river port. Nets are exposed to the air and wait now for June
suns to move out the fetters of ice. Decent looking houses and people face the strange cavalcade
as it passes village after village. It is a new aspect of Russia to the Americans who for many
weeks have been in the woods along the Vologda railroad.

Well, halting is a wonderful performance. The headman--starosta--must be hunted up to quarter
officers and men. He is not sure about the drivers. Perhaps he fears for the great haystacks
in his yard. We cannot wait. In we go and Buffalo Bill's men never had anything on these Russki
drivers. But it all works out, Slava Bogga for army sergeants. American soldiers are quick
to pull things through anyway. Without friction we get all in order. Guard is mounted over
the sleighs. Now we find out that Mr. Poole was right in talking about "friendly Russians."
Our lowly hosts treat us royally. Tea from the samovar steams us a welcome. It is clean homes,
mostly, soldiers find themselves in,--clean clothing, clean floors, oil lamps, pictures on
the walls.

To LIABLSKAYA--SECOND DAY, DECEMBER 19TH

Crawled out of our sheepskin sleeping bags about 6:00 o'clock well rested. Breakfasted on bacon
and bread and coffee. Gave headman ten roubles. Every soldier reported very hospitable treatment.
Tea for all. Milk for many. Some delay caused by the sledge drivers who joined us late at night
from Bakaritza with oats. Left at 8:40. Billeting party given an hour's start, travelling ahead
of the point to get billets and dinner arranged. Marching hard. Cold sleet from southeast with
drifting snow. The Shackelton boot tricky. Men find it hard to navigate. Road very hilly. Cross
this inlet here. Down the long hill and up a winding hill to the crest again which overhangs
the stream that soon empties into the big Dvina. To the left on the ice-locked beach are two
scows. It is warmer now for the road winds between the pines on both sides. The snow ceases
gradually but we do not see the least brightness in the sky to show location of old Sol. We
are making four versts an hour in spite of the hills and the cumbrous boots. The drivers are
keeping up well. Only once is the advance party able to look back to the rear guard, the caravan
being extended more than a verst. Here is another steep hill. See the crazy Russki driver give
his pony his head to dash down the incline. Disaster hangs in a dizzy balance as he whirls
round and round and the heavily loaded sled pulls horse backwards down the hill. Now we meet
a larger party of dressed-up folks going to church. It is holy day for Saint Nicholas.

The long hill leading into Liablskaya is a good tester for courage. Some of the men are playing
out--eight versts more will be tough marching. Here is the billeting officer to tell us that
the eight versts is a mistake--it is nineteen instead. We must halt for the night. No one is
sorry. There is the blazing cook's fire and dinner will be ready soon. It is only 12:15, but
it seems nearly night. Men are quickly assigned to quarters by the one-eyed old headman, Kardacnkov,
who marks the building and then goes in to announce to the householder that so many Amerikanski
soldats will sleep there. Twenty-five minutes later the rear guard is in. Our host comes quickly
with samovar of hot water and a pot of tea. He is a clerical man from Archangel, a soldier
from the Caucasus. With our M. & V. we have fresh milk.

It is dark before 3:00 p.m. We need a lamp. All the men are well quartered and are trying to
dry their shoes. We find the sergeants in a fine home. A bos'n of a Russian vessel is home
on leave. We must sit in their party and drink a hop-ferment substitute for beer. Their coffee
and cakes are delicious and we hold converse on the political situation. "American soldiers
are here to stop the war and give Russia peace" is our message. In another home we find a war
prisoner from Germany, back less than a week from Petrograd front. He had to come around the
Bolsheviki lines on the Vologda R. R. He says the B. government is on its last legs at Petrograd.

To KOSKOGOR--THIRD DAY, DECEMBER 20TH

Oh, you silvery moon, are you interested in that bugle call? It is telling our men to come
to breakfast at once--6:45, for we start for Koskogor at 8:00 a. m. or before. The start is
made at 7:45. Road is fine--well-beaten yesterday by marketing convoys and by Russians bound
for church to celebrate Saint Nick's Day. Between the pines our road winds. Not a breath of
air has stirred since the fine snow came in the night and "ridged each twig inch deep with
pearl." What a sight it would have been if the sun had come up. Wisconsin, we think of you
as we traverse these bluffs. You tenth verst, you break a beautiful scene on us with your trail
across the valley. You courageous little pony, you deserve to eat all that hay you are lugging
up that hill. Your load is not any worse than that of the pony behind who hauls a giant log
on two sleds. You deserve better treatment, Loshad. When Russia grows up to an educated nation
animal power will be conserved.

Here we see the primitive saw mill. Perched high on a pair of horses is a great log. Up and
down cuts the long-toothed saw. Up pulls the man on top. Down draws the man on the ground.
Something is lacking--it is the snap-ring that we so remember from boyhood wood-cutting days
in Michigan.

Here we are back to the river again and another picturesque scene with its formidable hill--Verst
18. But we get on fast for the end is in sight. The windmill for grinding grain tells us a
considerable village is near. We arrive and stop on the top of the hill in the home of a merchant-peasant,
Lopatkin: a fine home--house plants and a big clock and a gramophone. It is cold, for the Russian
stove has not been fired since morning--great economy of fuel in a land of wood.

To KHOLMOGORA--FOURTH DAY, DECEMBER 21ST

Harbinger of hope! Oh you red sky line! Shall we see the sun today?

It is 8:00 a. m. and from our hill top the wide red horizon in the south affords a wonderful
scene. In the distance, headlands on the Dvina cut bold figures into the red. Far, far away
stretches the flat river. Now we are safely down the long, steep hill and assembled on the
river. Sergeant Getzloff narrowly escapes death from a reckless civilian's pony and sleigh.
We crawl along the east shore for a verst and then cross squarely to the other side, facing
a cold, harsh wind. What a wonderful subject for a picture. Tall pines--tallest we have yet
seen in Russia, on the island lift their huge trunks against the red, the broad red band on
the skyline. And now, too, the upland joins itself to the scene.

The going is drifty and sternly cold. Broad areas allow the biting wind full sweep. Ears are
covered and hands are thrashed. That "stolen horse" pole there may be a verst post. Sure enough,
and "5," it says, "16 to go." Look now for the barber poles. We are too late to get a glimpse
of the sun. Red is the horizon yet but the sun has risen behind a low cloud screen. The advance
guard has outwalked the convoy and while ponies toil up the hill, we seek shelter in the lee
of a house to rest, to smoke. The convoy at last comes up. One animal has a ball of ice on
his foot. We make the drivers rest their ponies and look after their feet. Ten minutes and then on.

It is a desperate cold. A driver's ears are tipped with white. The bugler's nose is frozen
on the windward side. Everyone with yarn mittens only is busy keeping fingers from freezing.
Here it is good going for the long straight road is flanked by woods that protect road from
drifts and traveller from icy blasts. This road ends in a half mile of drifts before a town
on the bank of a tributary to the Dvina. We descend to the river.

So there you are, steamboat, till the spring break-up frees you and then you will steam up
and down the river with logs and lumber and hemp and iron and glass and soldiers perhaps--but
no Americans, I hope. What is this train that has come through our point? Bolshevik? Those
uniforms of the Russki M. P.'s are alarmingly like those we have been shooting at. Go on with
your prisoners. Now it is noon. The sun is only a hand high in the sky. The day has grown grey
and colder. Or is it lack of food that makes us more susceptible to winter's blasts? A bit
of hard tack now during this rest while we admire the enduring red of the sky. We are nearing
our objective. For several versts we have skirted the edge of the river and watched the spires
and domes of the city come nearer to us. We wind into the old river town and pass on for a
verst and a half to an old monastery where we find quarters in a subsidiary building which
once was an orphan's home. The old women are very kind and hospitable. The rooms are clean
and airy and warm.

AT MONASTERY--FIFTH DAY, DECEMBER 22ND

We spend the day at rest. Men are contented to lie on the warm floors and ease their feet and
ankles. We draw our rations of food, forage and cigarettes. It is bitterly cold and we dread
the morrow. The Madam Botchkoreva, leader of the famous women's Battalion of Death, comes to
call on us. She excites only mild interest among the soldiers.

To UST PINEGA--SIXTH DAY, DECEMBER 23RD

Zero is here on the edge of a cutting wind. But we dash around and reorganize our convoy. Five
sleds and company property are left at the monastery in charge of two privates who are not
fit to march further. Five horses are unfit to go. Billeting party leaves about 8:00 a. m.
The convoy starts at 8:40. Along the river's edge we move. A big twelve-verst horseshoe takes
us till noon. Men suffer from cold but do not complain. We put up in village. People are friendly.
Officers are quartered with a good-natured peasant. Call up Pinega on long distance phone.
We are needed badly. Officer will try to get sleighs to come to meet us forty versts out of
Pinega. Maj. Williams, Red Cross, came in to see us after we had gone to bed, on his way to Pinega.

To VERKHNE PALENGA--SEVENTH DAY, DECEMBER 24TH

At breakfast telegram came from Pinega promising one hundred horses and Red Cross Christmas
dinners. Get away at 7:50 a. m. The lane is full of snow but the winding road through the pines
is a wonderfully fine road. For thirteen versts there is hardly a drift. The hills are very
moderate. Wood haulers are dotting the river. Stores are evidently collecting for scow transport
in the summer. No, do not take to the ice. Keep on to the left, along the river. This hill
is not so bad. We lost our point on a tortuous road, but find that we have avoided a ravine.
The fourteenth verst takes us across the river--follow the telephone wires there. Come back,
you point, and take the road to the left that climbs that steep bluff yonder. What a sight
from the top! The whole convoy lies extended from advance guard on the hill to rear guard on
the river.

Up and down our winding pine-flanked road takes us. It is hard going but the goal is only a
few versts away. Now we are in sight of the village and see many little fields. Oh boy! see
that ravine. This town is in two parts. Hospitable is the true word. Men turn out and cut notches
in the ice to help the ponies draw the sleds up the hill. It is some show. Several of the ponies
are barely able to make the grade. The big man of the village is Cukov. We stay in his home--fine
home. Headman Zelenian comes to see us. Opened our Red Cross Christmas stockings and doughboys
share their meagre sweets with Russki children.

To LEUNOVO--EIGHTH DAY, DECEMBER 25TH

Up at 6:00 for a Merry Christmas march. Away at 8:05. Good road for thirteen versts, to Uzinga.
Here we stop and call for the headman who gets his men to help us down the hill to the river.
Not cold. Holes in the river for washing clothes. Officer reported seeing women actually washing
clothes. Found out what the high fences are for. Hang their flax up to dry. The twenty-fourth
verst into Leunovo is a hard drag. Quarters are soon found. People sullen. Forester, Polish
man who lives in house apart at north end of village, tells me there are many Bolsheviki sympathizers
in the town. Also that Ostrov and Kuzomen are affected similarly. This place will have to be
garrisoned by American soldiers to protect our rear from treachery.

TO GBACH--NINTH DAY, DECEMBER 26TH

Delay in starting due to necessity for telephoning to Pinega in regard to rations and sleighs.
Some error in calculations. They had sleighs waiting us at Gbach this morning instead of tomorrow
morning. Snow falling as we start on the river road at 8:25. We find it glada (level) nearly
all the way but drifty and hard walking. Nevertheless we arrive at end of our twenty-one verst
march at 1:25. Met by friendly villagers and well quartered. These people need phone and a
guard the same as at Verkne Palenga. Find that people here view the villages of Ostrov and
Kuzomen with distrust. Kulikoff, a prominent leader in the Bolo Northern army, hails from one
of these villages. Spent an hour with the village schoolmaster. Had a big audience of men and
boys. Sgt. Young and interpreter came through from Pinega to untangle the sleigh situation.
We find that it is again all set here for an early start with one hundred sleighs. A spoiled
can of M. & V. makes headquarters party desperately sick.

TO PINEGA--TENTH DAY, DECEMBER 27TH

Hard to get up this morning. Horses and sleighs came early as promised. Put one man and his
barrack bag and equipment into each sleigh and in many sleighs added a light piece of freight
to lighten our regular convoy sleds. Got away at 9:00 a. m. Nice day for driving. The Russian
sleigh runs smoothly and takes the bumps gracefully. It is the first time these solders have
ridden in sleighs. Urgency impels us. Light ball snow falls. Much hay cut along this valley.
We meet the genial Red Cross man who passes out cigarettes and good cheer to all the men.

Arrive at Soyla at noon. Some mistake made. The hundred horses left yesterday and the headman
goes out to get them again for us to go on this evening. Seventeen sleighs got away at 3:00
p. m. Twenty-five more at 7:00 p. m. At 9:30 we got away with the remainder of company. Have
a good sleigh and can sleep. Here is Yural and I must awake and telephone to Pinega to see
how situation stands. Loafer in telegraph office informs us of the battle today resulting in
defeat of White Guards, the volunteers of Pinega who were supporting the hundred Americans.
Bad news. It is desperately cold. No more sleeping. The river road is bleak. We arrive at last--3:00
a. m. In the frosty night the hulks of boats and the bluffs of Pinega loom large. So endeth
diary of the remarkable march.

No group of healthy men anywhere in the world, no matter what the danger and hardships, will
long forego play. It is the safety valve. It may be expressed in outdoor sports, or indoor
games, or in hunting, fishing or in some simple diversion. It may be in a tramp or a ride into
some new scenery to drink in beauty, or what not, even to getting the view-points of strange
peoples. What soldier will ever forget the ride up to the old three-hundred-year-old monastery
and the simple feed that the monks set out for them. Or who will forget the dark night at Kodish
when the orator called out to the Americans and they joshed him back with great merriment.

Often the soldier on the great line of communication duty whiled away an hour helping some
native with her chores. "Her" is the right word, for in that area nearly every able-bodied
man was either in the army, driving transport, working in warehouses, or working on construction,
or old and disabled. Practically never was a strong man found at home except on furlough or
connected with the common job of the peasants, keeping the Bolo out of the district.

For a matter of several weeks in weather averaging twenty-four degrees below zero three American
soldiers were responsible for the patrol of seven versts of trail leading out from a village
on the line of communication toward a Bolo position which was threatening it. One or all of
them made this patrol by sleigh every six or eight hours, inspecting a cross-trail and a rest
shack which Bolo patrols might use. Their plan was never to disturb the snow except on the
path taken by themselves, so that any other tracks could be easily detected. One day there
were suspicious signs and one of the men tramped a circle around the shack inspecting it from
all sides before entering it.

Next morning, before daylight, another one of  the trio made the patrol and being informed
of the circle about the shack, saw what he took to be additional tracks leading out and into
the shack and proceeded to burn the shack as his orders were, if the shack were ever visited
and promised to be of use to the enemy. Later by daylight a comrade making the patrol came
back with the joke on his buddie who in the darkness had mistaken a huge snowshoe rabbit's
tracks, made out of curiosity smelling out the man's tracks. Often the patrol sled would travel
for hours through a fairy land. The snow-laden trees would be interlaced over the trail, so
that the sled travelled in a wonderful crystal, grey, green and golden tunnel. Filtering beams
of sunlight ahead of it. A mist of disturbed snow behind it. No sound save from the lightly
galloping pony, the ooh-chee-chee of the driver or the bump of the sleigh against a tree or
a root, or the occasional thunder of a rabchik or wild turkey in partridge-like flight. Beside
the trail or crossing might be seen the tracks of fox and wolf and in rare instances of reindeer.

Or on the open road in the night: solemn again the mood of the doughboy as he recollects some
of those lonely night rides. Here on his back in the hay of the little sled he reclines muffled
in blankets and robes, his driver hidden in his great bearskin parki, or greatcoat, hidden
all but his two piercing eyes, his nose and whiskers that turned up to shield his face. With
a jerk the fiery little pony pulls out, sending the two gleaming sled tracks to running rearward
in distant meeting points, the woods to flying past the sleigh and the snow to squealing faintly
under the runners; sending the great starry heavens to sweep through the tops of the pine forest
and sending the doughboy to long thoughts and solemn as he looks up at the North Star right
above him and thinks of what his father said when he left home:

"Son, you look at the North Star and I'll look at it and every time we will think of one another
while you are away, and if you never come back, I'll look at the North Star and know that it
is looking down at your grave where you went with a purpose as fixed as the great star and
a motive as pure as its white light." Oh, those wonderful night heavens to the thoughtful man!

