Playwright Mr. ROI COOPER-MEGRUE, and principal players Miss FAY COMPTON, the wife; Mr. STANLEY
LOGAN, the friend, and Mr. A.E. MATTHEWS, the husband, made a first-rate thing of two-thirds
of Tea for Three.

The wife is without blemish physically or morally. The husband is faithful with a single-minded
fidelity in thought, word and deed that looks (and, I am assured by equally innocent victims,
is) positively deadly. The friend "frits and flutters" about in a distinctly casual, not to
say polygamous, mood, but has one sacred place in his untidy heart in which the wife is enshrined.
He can manage to sustain life so long as he may come to triangular tea on Thursdays. But the
faithful husband puts his foot on that.

Hence the stolen lunch for two with which the play opens. Philosophy there is, and very good
philosophy too, from the flutterer and fritter, and such love-making as every virtuous woman
(at heart a minx) allows. She is sorry, doubtless, for the suffering she causes, but (this
is my gloss, not, I think, the author's) is really enjoying it like anything and taking jolly
good care to look her best. Then follow little lies and as little and as needless and quite
innocent indiscretions; and the jealous husband on the rampage.

All this excellently put together, seasoned with wisdom and wit and most capably played; Miss
FAY COMPTON, admirable example of a pretty actress who won't let herself be captured by stage
tricks, making everything explicable except her continued love for her intolerable bore (and
Turk) of a husband; Mr. A.E. MATTHEWS handling a desperately unsympathetic part, which was
already beginning to look impossible, with great adroitness; and Mr. STANLEY LOGAN, though
badly hampered by a shocking cold and fighting a coughing audience, carrying the bulk of the
good talk and lifting it gently over the few difficult places with a brilliant and well-concealed
art.

Thus till towards the end of the Second Act. Then a bad, a very bad, fairy stuffed into Mr.
MEGRUE'S head the idea of the suicide lottery. The infuriated husband, finding his wife in
her friend's room at 7 P.M. (frightfully improper hour), sternly offers his bowler (or Derby)
hat, in which are two cards. The one marked with a cross is drawn by the flutterer and means
that he is for it. He is to kill himself within twenty-four hours.... And all this with perfect
seriousness.

You will see how the Third Act of a comedy which had tied itself in this kind of a knot simply
could not be played. The author had completely sacrificed plausibility, and it was not uninteresting
to see him twisting and turning, hedging and bluffing to save it; and a little uncomfortable
to note the conviction oozing away out of the performers.... Queer also that it isn't more
generally recognised that to come to the theatre with a loud persistent cough is a form of
premeditated robbery with violence.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW LEAGUE OF NATIONS.

The latest development in connection with the International Brotherhood movement is the establishment
of a College of Correct Cosmopolitan Pronunciation. The need of such an institution has long
been clamant, and the visit of the Ukrainian choir has brought matters to a crisis. At their
concert last week several strong women wept like men at their inability to pronounce the title
of one of the most beautiful items on the programme-- "Shtchedryk." Again, as Mr. SMILLIE must
have bitterly reflected, how can we possibly render justice to the cause of Bolshevism so long
as we are unable to pronounce the names of its leaders correctly? The same remark applies to
the Russian Ballet; the Yugo-Slav handbell-ringers; the vegetarian Indian-club swingers from
the Karakoram Himalayas; the polyphonic gong-players from North Borneo; the synthetic quarter-tone
quartette from San Domingo; the anthropophagous back-chat comedians from the Solomon Islands;
not to mention a host of other interesting companies, troupes, corroborees and pow-wows which
are now in our midst for the purpose of cementing the confraternity of nations.

Suitable premises for the College have been secured in the heart of Mayfair and a competent
staff of instructors has already been appointed, who, with the aid of gramophones, will be
able to train the students to perfection in the requisite command of the most explosive gutturals,
labials and sibilants. Doctor Prtnkeivitchsvtnshchitzky will be the director of the College;
Dr. SETON WATSON and Mr. WICKHAM STEED have kindly undertaken to supervise the Yugo-Slav section,
and the list of patrons and patronesses includes the names of the Prince of Prinkipo; Madame
KARSAVINA, so long a victim of the mispronunciation of her melodious surname; Dr. DOUGLAS HYDE,
the famous Irish scholar; Prenk-Bib-Doda, the Albanian chieftain; Sir RABINDRANATH TAGORE;
Lord PARMOOR; Sir THOMAS BEECHAM and the Dowager Begum of BHOPAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PEGASUS AT POLO.

    "The following teams have entered for the Lahore Polo Tournament:--4th
    Cavalry, 17th Cavalry, 21st Lancers, 33rd Cavalry, 39th Central India
    Horse, Lahore, the Fox-hunters from Meerut, and the Royal Air Horse
    from Delhi."--Civil and Military Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN UP-TO-DATE COSTUME.

    "For your evening dress I advise you simply to buy a piece of broad
    silver ribbon, pass it twice round the waist and knot it at the side,
    with a little bunch of berries and leaves caught into the knot."--
    Ladies' Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVOLT OF THE SUPER-GEORGIANS.

WILD SCENES AT A MEETING OF PROTEST.

An Indignation Meeting, to protest against the outrageous attacks levelled against Georgian
writers and critics by Professor NOYES in his recent lecture at the Royal Institution and by
Mr. A.D. GODLEY in an article in the current Nineteenth Century, was held last Saturday evening
at the Klaxon Hall. The chair was taken by Mr. EDWARD MARSH, C.M.G., who was supported on the
platform by a compact bevy of Georgian bards; but at an early stage of the meeting it became
apparent that a majority of those present in the body of the hall were extremists of violent
type, and eventually, as will be seen, the proceedings ended in something approximating to
a free fight.

Mr. MARSH began by a frank confession. He had taken a First Class in the Cambridge Classical
Tripos. But the days in which he had been steeped to the lips in Latin and Greek were long
past, never to return. For many years he had not composed hexameters, elegiacs or iambics.
He had thrown in his lot with insurgent youth, not as a competitor or rival, but as an advocate,
an admirer and an adviser. Indeed, if he might venture to say so, he sometimes acted as a brake
on the wheels of the triumphal Chariot of Free Verse. He was not an adherent of the fantastic
movement known as "Dada." He had no desire to abolish the family, morality, logic, memory,
archæology, the law and the prophets. A little madness was a splendid thing, but it must be
methodic. Still, for the rest he was a Georgian, heart and soul, and it pained him when men
who ought to know better raised the standard of reaction and sought to discredit the achievements
of his protégés. These attacks could not be passed over in silence, and the meeting had been
convened to consider how they should be met, whether by a reasoned protest or by retaliation.

Miss Messalina Stoot, who punctuated her remarks with the clashing of a pair of cymbals, observed
that as a thorough-going Dadaist she had no sympathy with the half-hearted attitude of the
Chairman. It was a battle between Dada and Gaga, and emphatically Dada must win.

Mr. Mimram Stoot, who accompanied himself on the sarrusophone, endorsed the iconoclastic views
of his sister. The only poetry that counted was that which caused spinal chills and issued
from husky haughty lips. The moanings of mediæval molluscs were of no avail, though they might
excite the crustacean fossils of Oxford, the home of lost causes.

Mr. Seumas O'Gambhaoil wished to protest against Mr. NOYES' statement that there were ten thousand
Bolshevist poets in our midst. This was a shameless underestimate of the total, which was at
least twice that figure. Mr. GODLEY'S offence, however, was much worse, as he was an Irishman,
though of the self-expatriated type to which GOLDSMITH and MOORE belonged. The rest of Mr.
O'Gambhaoil's speech was delivered in Irish, but he was understood to advocate a repatriation
of all Irish renegades to be tried and dealt with by the Sinn Fein Republic.

Mr. Caradoc Cramp applauded the sentiments of the last speaker, but considered that he avoided
the real issue. The Chairman had declared himself a Georgian, but that was not enough. The
worst enemies of Free Verse were to be found in that camp. In technique and even in thought
there was little to choose between many so-called Georgians and the most effete and reactionary
Victorians. He alluded to the War poets, or rather the "Duration" poets, most of whom were
already back-numbers. Between these and the Post-war poets, the true super-Georgians or paulo-post-Georgians,
it was necessary to make a clean cut. To protest against Messrs. GODLEY and NOYES was a mere
waste of time and energy. They might just as well protest against the existence of an extinct
volcano or the skeleton of the brontosaurus. The real danger to be faced was the intrinsic
subjectivity of the early and mid-Georgian poets, of whom the Chairman had been so powerful
and consistent a supporter. He accordingly called for volunteers to storm the platform, and,
a large number having responded to his appeal, Mr. MARSH was dislodged from the Chair after
a gallant fight. A resolution of adherence to the principles of "Dada" having been passed by
a large majority, the meeting broke up to the strains of the famous song--

      a e ou o youyouyou i e ou o
              youyouyou
    drrrrdrrrrdrrrrgrrrrgrrrrrgrrrrrrrr
          beng bong beng bang
  boumboum boumboum boumboum.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Gentleman, Interested in Tattooing and largely covered, would like to
    hear from other enthusiasts to compare notes."--Times.

We trust the "bare-back" mode is not going to spread to the more modest sex.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a "stores" circular:--

    "THIS WEEK'S ECONOMY OFFERS.

    Honey in Sections, each 3/9, three for 14/0."

The economy consists, of course, in buying them one at a time.

       *       *       *       *       *

WATER-BABIES.

  In a limbo of desolate waters,
    In the void of a flood-stricken plain,
  You will find them--the sons and the daughters
          Of tropical rain.

  For when rivers are one with the ocean,
    When the ricefields and roads are no more,
  There's a feeling of magic, a notion
          Of fairyland lore;

  And the babies of Burma can revel
    In a nursery of whirlpool and slime,
  Where it thunders and rains like the devil
          For weeks at a time.

  They paddle their rafts through the jungle;
    They swim through a network of leaves;
  They clamber with never a bungle
          To dive from the eaves.

  'Tis an orgy of goblins, an image
    Of nudity flouting the flood,
  Of shorn-headed brownies who scrimmage
          And splash in the mud.

  As we row neath a tamarind, one'll
    Roll off with a gesture of fright,
  Bobbing up like a cork at our gunwale
          And gurgling delight.

  But never a stanza shall measure
    The joy of that desperate crew
  Of four-year-olds scouring for treasure
          Astride a bamboo.

  Their fathers smoke, huddled in sorrow,
    Their mothers chew betel and fret,
  And the pariahs howl for a morrow
          Which shall not be wet;

  The plovers wheel o'er them complaining,
    And it's only the babies who pray
  That the skies may be raining and raining
          For ever and aye.

  J.M.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER MESOPOTAMIAN SCANDAL.

    "The commodious and fast ss. 40 will leave Basrah for Baghdad and all
    intermediate ports on Saturday morning at 9 A.M. Passengers will embark
    at 10 A.M."--Basrah Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "END OF COTTON SUIT.

    DRAMATIC COLLAPSE."--Daily Paper.

We are more than ever convinced of the superior wearing qualities of woollen.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia agrees to the
    admission on passport of Indian merchants, students, tourests, with
    there irrespective wives."--Indian Paper.

But ought any Government to encourage this sort of thing?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

Following the iconoclastic spirit of the age, Mr. BARRY PAIN has essayed in The Death of Maurice
(SKEFFINGTON) the revolutionary experiment of a murder mystery tale that does not contain (a)
a love interest, (b) a wrongly suspected hero, (c) a baffled inspector, (d) an amateur, but
inspired, detective. It would be a grateful task to add that the result proves the superfluity
of these time-worn accessories. But the cold fact is that, to me at least, the proof went the
other way. From the first I was painfully aware of a lack of snap about the whole business,
and I am more than suspicious that the author himself may have shared my unwilling indifference.
Maurice was an artistic bachelor, a landowner, a manufacturer of jam, a twin (with a bogie
gift of knowing at any moment the relative position of his other half, which might have been
worked for far more effect than is actually obtained from it), and a reputation of making enemies.
He had also an unusual neighbour, in the person of a young woman whose unconventionality led
her to perambulate the common at midnight, playing the first bars of Solveig's Song upon the
flute. One night, at the close of the first chapter, a gun was heard. But you are wrong to
suppose (however naturally) that the flute-player was the victim. It was Maurice. And of course
the problem was, who did it. I have told you my own experience of the working out; nothing
written by Mr. BARRY PAIN can ever be really dull, just as no story starting with a mysterious
murder can lack a certain intrigue; but the fact remains that my wish, heroically resisted,
to look on to the last chapter was prompted more often by impatience than by any compelling
curiosity. Others may be happier.

       *       *       *       *       *

The author of A Journal of Small Things has done much to make us understand the sufferings
of stricken France and the more intimate sorrows of war. Chill Hours (MELROSE) deals with that
dark period before the end, when, to some, it seemed all but certain that the will to victory
must fail. Of the three parts of this gracious little book the first consists of six sketches
of life behind the lines, life both gentle and simple, as affected by war. "Odette in Pink
Taffeta," an episode of bereavement, is in particular exquisitely visualised. "Their Places"
and "The Second Hay" treat, with a quiet intensity of conviction, of the absolutely deadening
absorption, by overwork and anxiety, of peasant wives and children left to carry on in the
absence of their men. The third part is a series of hospital vignettes. They do not attempt
to be too cheery, but they have the stamp of realised truth. "Nostalgia," the second part,
is in another mood--recalled memories of the beauties of a loved land and of dear common things
affectionately seen. To those who dare look at war with open eyes and who take pleasure in
sincere and beautifully-phrased writing I commend Mrs. HELEN MACKAY'S book without reserve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhere in Christendom (ALLEN AND UNWIN) is somewhat embarrassing to a reviewer, for it has
the theme of a great book with the manner of a trivial one. It is the history of a very much
smaller nation, Ethuria, left despoiled and starving at the end of a nine-years' war, in which
its great neighbours have used it as a battle-ground. Revolution begins, but a woman prophet
steps in and switches it off in an unusual direction. The Ethurians perfect among themselves
that fellowship which is the nice ideal behind many nasty manifestations in the real world,
and, when next they are invaded by neighbouring nations anxious to use them as an excuse for
belligerency, they resolutely stick to their guns (only the metaphor is most unsuitable), refuse
to find any cause of quarrel with their "foreign brothers," and finally persuade them to abandon
the ideals of war, so that peace on earth becomes a reality at last. Here is the book's theme;
its working out allows for a boxing match between the President of Hygeia and the Foreign Secretary
of Tritonia as the minimum of hostilities; a wicked newspaper lord, who pulls strings in both
countries, and a faithful butler to the Royal Family, who becomes assistant state nursemaid
and cleans silver as a hobby. Though I quite agree with Miss EVELYN SHARP and the Ethurians
that it is love that makes the world go round, I am not so sure that either hers or theirs
is the best way of advocating their common cause.

       *       *       *       *       *

You may remember an original and striking book of papers about the theatre under the title
of Buzz-Buzz. Its author, JAMES E. AGATE, has now followed it with another, called, rather
grimly, Responsibility (RICHARDS). You will be absolutely correct in guessing that this is
not a treatise on revue, being indeed an autobiographical novel of (I feel bound to add) precisely
the same calibre as, in the sister realm of drama, made the name of Manchester at one period
a word of awe. Why do these young Mancunians recollect to such stupendous purpose? Here is
Mr. AGATE, with an introduction of forty-four pages, all about time and infinity, before he
can get his protagonist so much as started anywhere at all. It is a little like one of those
demon-scenes out of the pantomimes he describes so lovingly--"Do so! May safety and success
attend on Crusoe." But of course the subsequent action is more responsible. I imagine Mr. AGATE'S
picture of young-man life in the Manchester of the nineties to be very much like the real thing.
Relaxation was not wholly remote from it. Cotton and commandments were broken with equal facility.
Also you may be impressed by the number of Germans in it. Finally, after telling us, sometimes
engagingly, sometimes verbosely, all he can remember about Lancashire, Mr. AGATE brings his
hero to Town, levers him along, year after year, and gets (almost on his last page) to his
big situation. I won't spoil it. Responsibility, which might better have been called "Garrulity,"
is a novel containing boredom and charm in about equal proportions; not to mention promise
for the days when its author has learned to discipline his too-ready pen.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the early part of 1915 until the end of 1917 Admiral Sir REGINALD BACON commanded at Dover,
and from the preface to The Dover Patrol (HUTCHINSON) we can gather that he is smarting under
a considerable sense of injustice and injury. Of the merits of his case--he frankly describes
his dismissal as brutal--I do not pretend to judge, but can safely assume that the other side
have something to say for themselves, if they care to. However, you are not to suppose that
this is a bitter book. Most generous are the praises which the Admiral bestows upon his subordinates;
his venom he reserves for just the chosen few who, no doubt, can bear it. Apart from personal
recriminations, of which some of us must be more than tired, these two portly volumes are of
real historical value. You will find in them not only a record of actual achievements, often
carried out under desperately difficult conditions, but also of projects which for one reason
or another were never fulfilled. "Why don't we try to land on the Belgian coast?" was a question
our amateur strategists were never weary of asking. Well, here is their answer. Here, too,
are countless photographs, charts, plans and diagrams--a really wonderful collection. Even
if you are not in the least interested in Sir REGINALD'S grievances you will find him a writer
who has a lot of useful things to say and knows how to say them.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN EFFECT OF THE CRIME WAVE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The normal average amount of clothing required in a temperate climate
    such as ours is: One pound weight of clothing to every one stone
    weight of the body.... Thus the clothes of a child weighing 3 stones
    should be 3lb., and for a man or woman weighing 10 stones the clothes
    should weigh 10lb. This is a definite statement; at any rate, disprove
    it who can."--Sir JAMES CANTLIE in "The Daily Mail."

We gave instructions to our Mathematical specialist to work out the figures, and his report
is that he finds them substantially correct.