THE DUKE'S CHILDREN

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published in serial form in All the Year Round in 1879 and 1880 and in book form in 1880

CONTENTS

         I. When the Duchess Was Dead
        II. Lady Mary Palliser
       III. Francis Oliphant Tregear
        IV. Park Lane
         V. "It Is Impossible"
        VI. Major Tifto
       VII. Conservative Convictions
      VIII. "He Is a Gentleman"
        IX. "In Medias Res"
         X. "Why Not Like Romeo If I Feel Like Romeo?"
        XI. "Cruel"
       XII. At Richmond
      XIII. The Duke's Injustice
       XIV. The New Member for Silverbridge
        XV. The Duke Receives a Letter,--and Writes One
       XVI. "Poor Boy"
      XVII. The Derby
     XVIII. One of the Results of the Derby
       XIX. "No; My Lord, I Do Not"
        XX. "Then He Will Come Again"
       XXI. Sir Timothy Beeswax
      XXII. The Duke in His Study
     XXIII. Frank Tregear Wants a Friend
      XXIV. "She Must Be Made to Obey"
       XXV. A Family Breakfast-Table
      XXVI. Dinner at the Beargarden
     XXVII. Major Tifto and the Duke
    XXVIII. Mrs. Montacute Jones's Garden-Party
      XXIX. The Lovers Meet
       XXX. What Came of the Meeting
      XXXI. Miss Boncassen's River-Party. No. 1
     XXXII. Miss Boncassen's River-Party. No. 2
    XXXIII. The Langham Hotel
     XXXIV. Lord Popplecourt
      XXXV. "Don't You Think--?"
     XXXVI. Tally-Ho Lodge
    XXXVII. Grex
   XXXVIII. Crummie-Toddie
     XXXIX. Killancodlem
        XL. "And Then!"
       XLI. Ischl
      XLII. Again at Killancodlem
     XLIII. What Happened at Doncaster
      XLIV. How It Was Done
       XLV. "There Shall Not Be Another Word About It"
      XLVI. Lady Mary's Dream
     XLVII. Miss Boncassen's Idea of Heaven
    XLVIII. The Party at Custins Is Broken Up
      XLIX. The Major's Fate
         L. The Duke's Arguments
        LI. The Duke's Guests
       LII. Miss Boncassen Tells the Truth
      LIII. "Then I Am As Proud As a Queen"
       LIV. "I Don't Think She Is a Snake"
        LV. Polpenno
       LVI. The News Is Sent to Matching
      LVII. The Meeting at "The Bobtailed Fox"
     LVIII. The Major Is Deposed
       LIX. No One Can Tell What May Come to Pass
        LX. Lord Gerald in Further Trouble
       LXI. "Bone of My Bone"
      LXII. The Brake Country
     LXIII. "I've Seen 'Em Like That Before"
      LXIV. "I Believe Him to Be a Worthy Young Man"
       LXV. "Do You Ever Think What Money Is?"
      LXVI. The Three Attacks
     LXVII. "He Is Such a Beast"
    LXVIII. Brook Street
      LXIX. "Pert Poppet!"
       LXX. "Love May Be a Great Misfortune"
      LXXI. "What Am I to Say, Sir?"
     LXXII. Carlton Terrace
    LXXIII. "I Have Never Loved You"
     LXXIV. "Let Us Drink a Glass of Wine Together"
      LXXV. The Major's Story
     LXXVI. On Deportment
    LXXVII. "Mabel, Good-Bye"
   LXXVIII. The Duke Returns to Office
     LXXIX. The First Wedding
      LXXX. The Second Wedding

CHAPTER I

When the Duchess Was Dead

No one, probably, ever felt himself to be more alone in the world than our old friend, the
Duke of Omnium, when the Duchess died. When this sad event happened he had ceased to be Prime
Minister. During the first nine months after he had left office he and the Duchess remained
in England. Then they had gone abroad, taking with them their three children. The eldest, Lord
Silverbridge, had been at Oxford, but had had his career there cut short by some more than
ordinary youthful folly, which had induced his father to agree with the college authorities
that his name had better be taken off the college books,--all which had been cause of very
great sorrow to the Duke. The other boy was to go to Cambridge; but his father had thought
it well to give him a twelvemonth's run on the Continent, under his own inspection. Lady Mary,
the only daughter, was the youngest of the family, and she also had been with them on the Continent.
They remained the full year abroad, travelling with a large accompaniment of tutors, lady's-maids,
couriers, and sometimes friends. I do not know that the Duchess or the Duke had enjoyed it
much; but the young people had seen something of foreign courts and much of foreign scenery,
and had perhaps perfected their French. The Duke had gone to work at his travels with a full
determination to create for himself occupation out of a new kind of life. He had studied Dante,
and had striven to arouse himself to ecstatic joy amidst the loveliness of the Italian lakes.
But through it all he had been aware that he had failed. The Duchess had made no such resolution,--had
hardly, perhaps, made any attempt; but, in truth, they had both sighed to be back among the
war-trumpets. They had both suffered much among the trumpets, and yet they longed to return.
He told himself from day to day, that though he had been banished from the House of Commons,
still, as a peer, he had a seat in Parliament, and that, though he was no longer a minister,
still he might be useful as a legislator. She, in her career as a leader of fashion, had no
doubt met with some trouble,--with some trouble but with no disgrace; and as she had been carried
about among the lakes and mountains, among the pictures and statues, among the counts and countesses,
she had often felt that there was no happiness except in that dominion which circumstances
had enabled her to achieve once, and might enable her to achieve again--in the realms of London
society.

Then, in the early spring of 187--, they came back to England, having persistently carried
out their project, at any rate in regard to time. Lord Gerald, the younger son, was at once
sent up to Trinity. For the eldest son a seat was to be found in the House of Commons, and
the fact that a dissolution of Parliament was expected served to prevent any prolonged sojourn
abroad. Lady Mary Palliser was at that time nineteen, and her entrance into the world was to
be her mother's great care and great delight. In March they spent a few days in London, and
then went down to Matching Priory. When she left town the Duchess was complaining of cold,
sore throat, and debility. A week after their arrival at Matching she was dead.

Had the heavens fallen and mixed themselves with the earth, had the people of London risen
in rebellion with French ideas of equality, had the Queen persistently declined to comply with
the constitutional advice of her ministers, had a majority in the House of Commons lost its
influence in the country,--the utter prostration of the bereft husband could not have been
more complete. It was not only that his heart was torn to pieces, but that he did not know
how to look out into the world. It was as though a man should be suddenly called upon to live
without hands or even arms. He was helpless, and knew himself to be helpless. Hitherto he had
never specially acknowledged to himself that his wife was necessary to him as a component part
of his life. Though he had loved her dearly, and had in all things consulted her welfare and
happiness, he had at times been inclined to think that in the exuberance of her spirits she
had been a trouble rather than a support to him. But now it was as though all outside appliances
were taken away from him. There was no one of whom he could ask a question.

For it may be said of this man that, though throughout his life he had had many Honourable
and Right Honourable friends, and that though he had entertained guests by the score, and though
he had achieved for himself the respect of all good men and the thorough admiration of some
few who knew him, he had hardly made for himself a single intimate friend--except that one
who had now passed away from him. To her he had been able to say what he thought, even though
she would occasionally ridicule him while he was declaring his feelings. But there had been
no other human soul to whom he could open himself. There were one or two whom he loved, and
perhaps liked; but his loving and his liking had been exclusively political. He had so habituated
himself to devote his mind and his heart to the service of his country, that he had almost
risen above or sunk below humanity. But she, who had been essentially human, had been a link
between him and the world.

There were his three children, the youngest of whom was now nearly nineteen, and they surely
were links! At the first moment of his bereavement they were felt to be hardly more than burdens.
A more loving father there was not in England, but nature had made him so undemonstrative that
as yet they had hardly known his love. In all their joys and in all their troubles, in all
their desires and all their disappointments, they had ever gone to their mother. She had been
conversant with everything about them, from the boys' bills and the girl's gloves to the innermost
turn in the heart and the disposition of each. She had known with the utmost accuracy the nature
of the scrapes into which Lord Silverbridge had precipitated himself, and had known also how
probable it was that Lord Gerald would do the same. The results of such scrapes she, of course,
deplored; and therefore she would give good counsel, pointing out how imperative it was that
such evil-doings should be avoided; but with the spirit that produced the scrapes she fully
sympathised. The father disliked the spirit almost worse than the results; and was therefore
often irritated and unhappy.

And the difficulties about the girl were almost worse to bear than those about the boys. She
had done nothing wrong. She had given no signs of extravagance or other juvenile misconduct.
But she was beautiful and young. How was he to bring her out into the world? How was he to
decide whom she should or whom she should not marry? How was he to guide her through the shoals
and rocks which lay in the path of such a girl before she can achieve matrimony?

It was the fate of the family that, with a world of acquaintance, they had not many friends.
From all close connection with relatives on the side of the Duchess they had been dissevered
by old feelings at first, and afterwards by want of any similitude in the habits of life. She
had, when young, been repressed by male and female guardians with an iron hand. Such repression
had been needed, and had been perhaps salutary, but it had not left behind it much affection.
And then her nearest relatives were not sympathetic with the Duke. He could obtain no assistance
in the care of his girl from that source. Nor could he even do it from his own cousins' wives,
who were his nearest connections on the side of the Pallisers. They were women to whom he had
ever been kind, but to whom he had never opened his heart. When, in the midst of the stunning
sorrow of the first week, he tried to think of all this, it seemed to him that there was nobody.

There had been one lady, a very dear ally, staying in the house with them when the Duchess
died. This was Mrs. Finn, the wife of Phineas Finn, who had been one of the Duke's colleagues
when in office. How it had come to pass that Mrs. Finn and the Duchess had become singularly
bound together has been told elsewhere. But there had been close bonds,--so close that when
the Duchess on their return from the Continent had passed through London on her way to Matching,
ill at the time and very comfortless, it had been almost a thing of course, that Mrs. Finn
should go with her. And as she had sunk, and then despaired, and then died, it was this woman
who had always been at her side, who had ministered to her, and had listened to the fears and
the wishes and hopes she had expressed respecting the children.

At Matching, amidst the ruins of the old Priory, there is a parish burying-ground, and there,
in accordance with her own wish, almost within sight of her own bedroom-window, she was buried.
On the day of the funeral a dozen relatives came, Pallisers and M'Closkies, who on such an
occasion were bound to show themselves, as members of the family. With them and his two sons
the Duke walked across to the graveyard, and then walked back; but even to those who stayed
the night at the house he hardly spoke. By noon on the following day they had all left him,
and the only stranger in the house was Mrs. Finn.

On the afternoon of the day after the funeral the Duke and his guest met, almost for the first
time since the sad event. There had been just a pressure of the hand, just a glance of compassion,
just some murmur of deep sorrow,--but there had been no real speech between them. Now he had
sent for her, and she went down to him in the room in which he commonly sat at work. He was
seated at his table when she entered, but there was no book open before him, and no pen ready
to his hand. He was dressed of course in black. That, indeed, was usual with him, but now the
tailor by his funereal art had added some deeper dye of blackness to his appearance. When he
rose and turned to her she thought that he had at once become an old man. His hair was grey
in parts, and he had never accustomed himself to use that skill in managing his outside person
by which many men are able to preserve for themselves a look, if not of youth, at any rate
of freshness. He was thin, of an adust complexion, and had acquired a habit of stooping which,
when he was not excited, gave him an appearance of age. All that was common to him; but now
it was so much exaggerated that he who was not yet fifty might have been taken to be over sixty.

He put out his hand to greet her as she came up to him. "Silverbridge," he said, "tells me
that you go back to London to-morrow."

"I thought it would be best, Duke. My presence here can be of no comfort to you."

"I will not say that anything can be of comfort. But of course it is right that you should
go. I can have no excuse for asking you to remain. While there was yet a hope for her--" Then
he stopped, unable to say a word further in that direction, and yet there was no sign of a
tear and no sound of a sob.

"Of course I would stay, Duke, if I could be of any service."

"Mr. Finn will expect you to return to him."

"Perhaps it would be better that I should say that I would stay were it not that I know that
I can be of no real service."

"What do you mean by that, Mrs. Finn?"

"Lady Mary should have with her at such a time some other friend."

"There was none other whom her mother loved as she loved you--none, none." This he said almost
with energy.

"There was no one lately, Duke, with whom circumstances caused her mother to be so closely
intimate. But even that perhaps was unfortunate."

"I never thought so."

"That is a great compliment. But as to Lady Mary, will it not be as well that she should have
with her, as soon as possible, someone,--perhaps someone of her own kindred if it be possible,
or, if not that, at least one of her own kind?"

"Who is there? Whom do you mean?"

"I mean no one. It is hard, Duke, to say what I do mean, but perhaps I had better try. There
will be,--probably there have been,--some among your friends who have regretted the great intimacy
which chance produced between me and my lost friend. While she was with us no such feeling
would have sufficed to drive me from her. She had chosen for herself, and if others disapproved
her choice that was nothing to me. But as regards Lady Mary, it will be better, I think, that
from the beginning she should be taught to look for friendship and guidance to those--to those
who are more naturally connected with her."

"I was not thinking of any guidance," said the Duke.

"Of course not. But with one so young, where there is intimacy there will be guidance. There
should be somebody with her. It was almost the last thought that occupied her mother's mind.
I could not tell her, Duke, but I can tell you, that I cannot with advantage to your girl be
that somebody."

"Cora wished it."

"Her wishes, probably, were sudden and hardly fixed."

"Who should it be, then?" asked the father, after a pause.

"Who am I, Duke, that I should answer such a question?"

After that there was another pause, and then the conference was ended by a request from the
Duke that Mrs. Finn would stay at Matching for yet two days longer. At dinner they all met,--the
father, the three children, and Mrs. Finn. How far the young people among themselves had been
able to throw off something of the gloom of death need not here be asked; but in the presence
of their father they were sad and sombre, almost as he was. On the next day, early in the morning,
the younger lad returned to his college, and Lord Silverbridge went up to London, where he
was supposed to have his home.

"Perhaps you would not mind reading these letters," the Duke said to Mrs. Finn, when she again
went to him, in compliance with a message from him asking for her presence. Then she sat down
and read two letters, one from Lady Cantrip, and the other from a Mrs. Jeffrey Palliser, each
of which contained an invitation for his daughter, and expressed a hope that Lady Mary would
not be unwilling to spend some time with the writer. Lady Cantrip's letter was long, and went
minutely into circumstances. If Lady Mary would come to her, she would abstain from having
other company in the house till her young friend's spirits should have somewhat recovered themselves.
Nothing could be more kind, or proposed in a sweeter fashion. There had, however, been present
to the Duke's mind as he read it a feeling that a proposition to a bereaved husband to relieve
him of the society of an only daughter, was not one which would usually be made to a father.
In such a position a child's company would probably be his best solace. But he knew,--at this
moment he painfully remembered,--that he was not as are other men. He acknowledged the truth
of this, but he was not the less grieved and irritated by the reminder. The letter from Mrs.
Jeffrey Palliser was to the same effect, but was much shorter. If it would suit Mary to come
to them for a month or six weeks at their place in Gloucestershire, they would both be delighted.

"I should not choose her to go there," said the Duke, as Mrs. Finn refolded the latter letter.
"My cousin's wife is a very good woman, but Mary would not be happy with her."

"Lady Cantrip is an excellent friend for her."

"Excellent. I know no one whom I esteem more than Lady Cantrip."

"Would you wish her to go there, Duke?"

There came a wistful piteous look over the father's face. Why should he be treated as no other
father would be treated? Why should it be supposed that he would desire to send his girl away
from him? But yet he felt that it would be better that she should go. It was his present purpose
to remain at Matching through a portion of the summer. What could he do to make a girl happy?
What comfort would there be in his companionship?

"I suppose she ought to go somewhere," he said.

"I had not thought of it," said Mrs. Finn.

"I understood you to say," replied the Duke, almost angrily, "that she ought to go to someone
who would take care of her."

"I was thinking of some friend coming to her."

"Who would come? Who is there that I could possibly ask? You will not stay."

"I certainly would stay, if it were for her good. I was thinking, Duke, that perhaps you might
ask the Greys to come to you."

"They would not come," he said, after a pause.

"When she was told that it was for her sake, she would come, I think."

Then there was another pause. "I could not ask them," he said; "for his sake I could not have
it put to her in that way. Perhaps Mary had better go to Lady Cantrip. Perhaps I had better
be alone here for a time. I do not think that I am fit to have any human being here with me
in my sorrow."

CHAPTER II

Lady Mary Palliser

It may as well be said at once that Mrs. Finn knew something of Lady Mary which was not known
to the father, and which she was not yet prepared to make known to him. The last winter abroad
had been passed at Rome, and there Lady Mary Palliser had become acquainted with a certain
Mr. Tregear,--Francis Oliphant Tregear. The Duchess, who had been in constant correspondence
with her friend, had asked questions by letter as to Mr. Tregear, of whom she had only known
that he was the younger son of a Cornish gentleman, who had become Lord Silverbridge's friend
at Oxford. In this there had certainly been but little to recommend him to the intimacy of
such a girl as Lady Mary Palliser. Nor had the Duchess, when writing, ever spoken of him as
a probable suitor for her daughter's hand. She had never connected the two names together.
But Mrs. Finn had been clever enough to perceive that the Duchess had become fond of Mr. Tregear,
and would willingly have heard something to his advantage. And she did hear something to his
advantage,--something also to his disadvantage. At his mother's death this young man would
inherit a property amounting to about fifteen hundred a year. "And I am told," said Mrs. Finn,
"that he is quite likely to spend his money before it comes to him." There had been nothing
more written specially about Mr. Tregear; but Mrs. Finn had feared not only that the young
man loved the girl, but that the young man's love had in some imprudent way been fostered by
the mother.

Then there had been some fitful confidence during those few days of acute illness. Why should
not the girl have the man if he were lovable? And the Duchess referred to her own early days
when she had loved, and to the great ruin which had come upon her heart when she had been severed
from the man she had loved. "Not but that it has been all for the best," she had said. "Not
but that Plantagenet has been to me all that a husband should be. Only if she can be spared
what I suffered, let her be spared." Even when these things had been said to her, Mrs. Finn
had found herself unable to ask questions. She could not bring herself to inquire whether the
girl had in truth given her heart to this young Tregear. The one was nineteen and the other
as yet but two-and-twenty! But though she asked no questions she almost knew that it must be
so. And she knew also that the father, as yet, was quite in the dark on the matter. How was
it possible that in such circumstances she should assume the part of the girl's confidential
friend and monitress? Were she to do so she must immediately tell the father everything. In
such a position no one could be a better friend than Lady Cantrip, and Mrs. Finn had already
almost made up her mind that, should Lady Cantrip occupy the place, she would tell her ladyship
all that had passed between herself and the Duchess on the subject.

Of what hopes she might have, or what fears, about her girl, the Duchess had said no word to
her husband. But when she had believed that the things of the world were fading away from her,
and when he was sitting by her bedside,--dumb, because at such a moment he knew not how to
express the tenderness of his heart,--holding her hand, and trying so to listen to her words,
that he might collect and remember every wish, she had murmured something about the ultimate
division of the great wealth with which she herself had been endowed. "She had never," she
said, "even tried to remember what arrangements had been made by lawyers, but she hoped that
Mary might be so circumstanced, that if her happiness depended on marrying a poor man, want
of money need not prevent it." The Duke suspecting nothing, believing this to be a not unnatural
expression of maternal interest, had assured her that Mary's fortune would be ample.

Mrs. Finn made the proposition to Lady Mary in respect to Lady Cantrip's invitation. Lady Mary
was very like her mother, especially in having exactly her mother's tone of voice, her quick
manner of speech, and her sharp intelligence. She had also her mother's eyes, large and round,
and almost blue, full of life and full of courage, eyes which never seemed to quail, and her
mother's dark brown hair, never long but very copious in its thickness. She was, however, taller
than her mother, and very much more graceful in her movement. And she could already assume
a personal dignity of manner which had never been within her mother's reach. She had become
aware of a certain brusqueness of speech in her mother, a certain aptitude to say sharp things
without thinking whether the sharpness was becoming to the position which she held, and, taking
advantage of the example, the girl had already learned that she might gain more than she would
lose by controlling her words.

"Papa wants me to go to Lady Cantrip," she said.

"I think he would like it,--just for the present, Lady Mary."

Though there had been the closest possible intimacy between the Duchess and Mrs. Finn, this
had hardly been so as to the intercourse between Mrs. Finn and the children. Of Mrs. Finn it
must be acknowledged that she was, perhaps fastidiously, afraid of appearing to take advantage
of her friendship with the Duke's family. She would tell herself that though circumstances
had compelled her to be the closest and nearest friend of a Duchess, still her natural place
was not among dukes and their children, and therefore in her intercourse with the girl she
did not at first assume the manner and bearing which her position in the house would have seemed
to warrant. Hence the "Lady Mary."

"Why does he want to send me away, Mrs. Finn?"

"It is not that he wants to send you away, but that he thinks it will be better for you to
be with some friend. Here you must be so much alone."

"Why don't you stay? But I suppose Mr. Finn wants you to be back in London."

"It is not that only, or, to speak the truth, not that at all. Mr. Finn could come here if
it were suitable. Or for a week or two he might do very well without me. But there are other
reasons. There is no one whom your mother respected more highly than Lady Cantrip."

"I never heard her speak a word of Lady Cantrip."

"Both he and she are your father's intimate friends."

"Does papa want to be--alone here?"

"It is you, not himself, of whom he is thinking."

"Therefore I must think of him, Mrs. Finn. I do not wish him to be alone. I am sure it would
be better that I should stay with him."

"He feels that it would not be well that you should live without the companionship of some lady."

"Then let him find some lady. You would be the best, because he knows you so well. I, however,
am not afraid of being alone. I am sure he ought not to be here quite by himself. If he bids
me go, I must go, and then of course I shall go where he sends me; but I won't say that I think
it best that I should go, and certainly I do not want to go to Lady Cantrip." This she said
with great decision, as though the matter was one on which she had altogether made up her mind.
Then she added, in a lower voice: "Why doesn't papa speak to me about it?"

"He is thinking only of what may be best for you."

"It would be best for me to stay near him. Whom else has he got?"

All this Mrs. Finn repeated to the Duke as closely as she could, and then of course the father
was obliged to speak to his daughter.

"Don't send me away, papa," she said at once.

"Your life here, Mary, will be inexpressibly sad."

"It must be sad anywhere. I cannot go to college, like Gerald, or live anywhere just as I please,
like Silverbridge."

"Do you envy them that?"

"Sometimes, papa. Only I shall think more of poor mamma by being alone, and I should like to
be thinking of her always." He shook his head mournfully. "I do not mean that I shall always
be unhappy, as I am now."

"No, my dear; you are too young for that. It is only the old who suffer in that way."

"You will suffer less if I am with you; won't you, papa? I do not want to go to Lady Cantrip.
I hardly remember her at all."

"She is very good."

"Oh yes. That is what they used to say to mamma about Lady Midlothian. Papa, pray do not send
me to Lady Cantrip."

Of course it was decided that she should not go to Lady Cantrip at once, or to Mrs. Jeffrey
Palliser, and, after a short interval of doubt, it was decided also that Mrs. Finn should remain
at Matching for at least a fortnight. The Duke declared that he would be glad to see Mr. Finn,
but she knew that in his present mood the society of any one man to whom he would feel himself
called upon to devote his time, would be a burden to him, and she plainly said that Mr. Finn
had better not come to Matching at present. "There are old associations," she said, "which
will enable you to bear with me as you will with your butler or your groom, but you are not
as yet quite able to make yourself happy with company." This he bore with perfect equanimity,
and then, as it were, handed over his daughter to Mrs. Finn's care.

Very quickly there came to be close intimacy between Mrs. Finn and Lady Mary. For a day or
two the elder woman, though the place she filled was one of absolute confidence, rather resisted
than encouraged the intimacy. She always remembered that the girl was the daughter of a great
duke, and that her position in the house had sprung from circumstances which would not, perhaps,
in the eyes of the world at large, have recommended her for such friendship. She knew--the
reader may possibly know--that nothing had ever been purer, nothing more disinterested than
her friendship. But she knew also,--no one knew better,--that the judgment of men and women
does not always run parallel with facts. She entertained, too, a conviction in regard to herself,
that hard words and hard judgments were to be expected from the world,--were to be accepted
by her without any strong feeling of injustice,--because she had been elevated by chance to
the possession of more good things than she had merited. She weighed all this with a very fine
balance, and even after the encouragement she had received from the Duke, was intent on confining
herself to some position about the girl inferior to that which such a friend as Lady Cantrip
might have occupied. But the girl's manner, and the girl's speech about her own mother, overcame
her. It was the unintentional revelation of the Duchess's constant reference to her,--the way
in which Lady Mary would assert that "Mamma used always to say this of you; mamma always knew
that you would think so and so; mamma used to say that you had told her." It was the feeling
thus conveyed, that the mother who was now dead had in her daily dealings with her own child
spoken of her as her nearest friend, which mainly served to conquer the deference of manner
which she had assumed.

Then gradually there came confidences,--and at last absolute confidence. The whole story about
Mr. Tregear was told. Yes; she loved Mr. Tregear. She had given him her heart, and had told him so.

"Then, my dear, your father ought to know it," said Mrs. Finn.

"No; not yet. Mamma knew it."

"Did she know all that you have told me?"

"Yes; all. And Mr. Tregear spoke to her, and she said that papa ought not to be told quite yet."

