When Charlie had been two months down the mine as a trapper, he was advanced to a higher post
and better wages as a putter. He might have had the increase of wages quite a month before,
but he put off applying for the place until it was too late, and another boy had been appointed.
Harry Greenwell lent him some elementary books on mechanics, for his old love for such things
was as strong as ever, and now that he was putter he had many opportunities of examining the
working of the engine stationed down the mine. Those were glorious days for Charlie when it
was out of order, and the engineer had to come down; he would hover round him, holding the
tools for the men, helping to lift or carry anything, glad of any excuse to be near. His questions
were so sensible and thoughtful, and his suggestions sometimes, for a youth, so good, that
the engineer became quite interested in him, and explained to him thoroughly the working of
the engine, giving him really valuable teaching in mechanics; and this knowledge stood him
in good stead, as you will hear.

On coming down to his work one morning he was surprised to find his favourite, the engine,
at a stand-still. A number of the miners were near it, all talking together, trying to account
for the accident, and deploring the absence of the engineer, who was away for a day or two's
holiday.

Mr. Carlton, the viewer, looked vexed and annoyed; he was asking the overman to send to a mine
a few miles off for their engineer. Charlie made his way to the engine, and soon saw what was
wrong. It was not much, and he felt sure that if he had the help of a pair of strong arms he
could get it into working order.

In his excitement he pushed his way to Mr. Carlton, and exclaimed, "I know what is wrong with
her, sir; if you will just come and look, sir, I'll show you."

Mr. Carlton, surprised and amused, followed him, and Charlie, stooping down and pointing up,
full of animation, explained so clearly and intelligently the nature of the misfortune, and
how it might be remedied, that Mr. Carlton, no longer with the amused expression on his face,
called to one of the men, "Come here, Shields, and help him."

In an hour's time Charlie's pet was working away as hard as ever.

"Well done, my boy," said Mr. Carlton; "tell me where you picked up all this knowledge."

The men were gone off to their work, and Mr. Carlton soon drew all Charlie's little history
from him. He made no remark, excepting that when Charlie made his polite bow and turned off
to his work, he asked him where his father lived.

In the evening, when Charlie got home, he thought his father and mother looked very smiling
and mysterious, and after they had kept him guessing what was the cause for a little while,
they told him that Mr. Carlton had been there; he thought they would like to hear of Charlie's
success with the engine. "And here's good news for you," said his mother. "Mr. Carlton says
that if you like to work as a putter six hours a day you may help the engineer, and learn all
you can, the other six, and he will give you the same wages as you earn now."

Charlie threw himself into a chair, and sat quite still for a few moments. "Isn't it wonderful,
mother?" he said at last--"isn't it wonderful? When I went down the pit there seemed no chance
of my ever doing anything else all my life. The other seemed impossible; and yet how God has
brought it all about! I shall be an engineer after all, and I have good wages too to begin
with. If I hadn't given up all thoughts of it, and gone quietly down the pit because God made
me feel it was my duty, I should have lost all this. I hope I shall never doubt Him after this.
Won't it be capital, father?" he went on, getting excited. "When I get plenty of money you
shall have such a beautiful garden and greenhouse! I think you're feeling better for the rest
already, are you not?"

John Heedman could not bear to damp Charlie's happiness, so he turned off the question by saying,
"Mr. Roberts, the clergyman, was here to-day. I told him about Brownlee and Bob White; he was
very pleased to hear about you all meeting for Bible reading, and he is going to look out for
them, and get them to a Bible class he has every week, and to the house of God."

The only drawback to Charlie's happiness now was the increasing illness of his father. Sanguine
and hopeful as he was, he could not blind himself to the fact that every day his father got
weaker and weaker.

A visit to John Heedman was a lesson in Christianity to any one,--his wonderful patience under
suffering, his perfect trust in the Saviour, his quiet waiting for the end--happy to go, yet
happy to stay and suffer so long as it pleased God.

CHAPTER XI.

SORROW, HUMILIATION, AND REPENTANCE.

We are quite sure that you have been very glad to read of the progress which Charlie has made
since we first met him on the pier a little sunburnt boy only eight years old. You have seen
what good, kind friends he met with; how well he was trained; how nobly he came out when his
father was ill in denying himself and going down the mine, and how he was rewarded; and you
have seen, too, how he tried to do something for God in helping Brownlee and Bob White; and
yet we are so sorry to have to tell you that all this time his old habit of putting off was
still growing up with him, and latterly a good deal of self-righteousness had crept into his
heart. Unconsciously he began to have a very high opinion of himself, and would often think
with pride how different he was from many boys that he knew.

Unfortunately he seemed to have no idea how completely he was in the power of his old enemy,
procrastination. It would have made our story much too long if we had told you every instance
in which he gave way to it, but we think you will see that this habit of putting off was his
besetting sin, the one flaw in his character. The ship was sailing pleasantly along, with decks
clean swept, with colours flying, and all looking well and prosperous; but there was a leak,
one little treacherous leak, which, if it remained unnoticed and unstopped, would soon bring
confusion and destruction upon the ship, gay and gallant though she looked.

We may often be deceived in ourselves, and think that we are going on well, but God cannot
be deceived. He sees us as we really are, not as we appear to ourselves and to others. He is
training each one of us, and He saw in Charlie's case that a fiery trial was needed to burn
out of him that besetting sin that had been so long indulged. Just as gold is purified by being
passed through a fiery furnace, so our hearts need to be purified sometimes by great sorrows,
by fiery trials; and so it was that Charlie had to suffer a most bitter, a most sad and humiliating
fall.

Eleven months had passed since John Heedman first called in the doctor; he had lingered so
long, but now the end was very near. He would not hear of Charlie staying away from his work,
although Mr. Carlton had kindly offered to let him have a few days at home.

One evening when Charlie came in from work his mother gave him a letter. "You had better go
straight to the post with it," she said, afraid that he would put off. "Your father is very
anxious it should go by to-night's post. Now, Charlie, do take care," she said, anxiously.

Charlie's good opinion of himself--his pride--was touched.

"I wish, mother, you wouldn't talk to me as if you thought I didn't know what I was about,"
he said, in an angry tone, slamming the door after him as he went out. He had not gone far
when he met Bob White, who was going with a note from the clergyman to get some books out of
the library. "Come with me," said Bob, "and we'll have a look through the books."

"I've got to go to the post office," said Charlie, "but there's time enough yet; I'll go with
you." He argued with himself, "What's the use of putting the letter in ever so long before
post-time if it won't go a bit the quicker." He was in an irritable humour, angry to think
that he should have been doubted. If he had been like Tom Brown, or Joe Denton, or any of those
careless fellows, it would have been a different thing.

Arrived at the library, both the boys were soon interested in looking over the books, and the
time flew rapidly. "I'll just glance at these," thought Charlie, taking out two more with very
attractive titles, "and then I must be off to the post."

Charlie took up a third, determined that it should be the last, when Bob said, "I think you
had better inquire how the time goes."

"It's nothing like time for the post to close yet, is it, sir?" he asked of the librarian.

"It only wants three minutes to the time; it is not possible for you to save it, I am afraid."

Charlie dashed down the broad steps and along the streets as hard as he could run; but he was
too late, the post had just gone, and he was obliged to drop the letter into the empty box.
He walked slowly home, out of breath and out of temper, hoping no questions would be asked.
"I don't see why I should say it was too late unless I'm asked," he argued, shrinking from
confessing to his mother that she was justified in doubting him. Nothing was said about the
letter that night; his father was much worse, and everything else was forgotten. Charlie was
almost heartbroken to see him so ill, and miserable at the thought that he was deceiving him
about the letter.

The next morning, as he was leaving the room to go out to his work, his father called him back.
"Charlie," he said, "I am expecting a sister of mine to-night, and I want you to go to the
train and meet her; she would get the letter you posted last night this morning, and will have
time to get here by the half-past eight train to-night." He paused for a moment. Why did not
Charlie undeceive him about the letter at once? He made up his mind to tell him, but put it
off until his father had finished all he had to say.

"I have not seen my sister for years," said John Heedman; "she is the only relative I have
living, but some misunderstanding rose up between us after my mother's death--at least, she
took offence, and I do not know the reason even now. I wrote several times, but she did not
answer. That letter you posted last night was to her; she will come, I know, when she hears
that I am so near death. There must be something to explain away, and I am anxious for a reconciliation
before I die; indeed, it is the only earthly wish I have left." He said this so earnestly,
and with such an anxious, longing expression in his eyes, that Charlie was obliged to turn
away; he could not bear it.

How could he tell him that she had not got the letter? If only he had confessed his neglect
the same night, before he knew the contents of the letter, it would not have been half so bad.

"You had better go now, my boy," said his father, kindly, "or you'll be late at work."

Charlie went. I need not tell you that he had a miserable day.

At night his father called him into his room and gave him as careful a description of his sister
as he could to guide him in knowing her. Charlie dressed and went to the station, and walked
up and down the platform until the train came in, gazed at the people, and walked home again.
It seemed as if he could not help it; instead of recovering himself after the first false step,
he had gone on sinking deeper and deeper into sin and deception; he seemed powerless to help
himself.

"Hasn't she come?" exclaimed his mother, seeing he was alone. "Oh dear, what will your father
do? he has been almost living upon the expectation of seeing her these last few hours; he has
watched the door ever since you went out. I'm afraid the disappointment will throw him back sadly."

Charlie could not trust himself to speak, but turned into the sick room. His father was propped
up with pillows, and looked eagerly to the door when Charlie entered; he still waited in expectation
until Mrs. Heedman came in and closed the door. "Where is she?" he asked; "where is Jane?"

"She has not come," said Mrs. Heedman, gently; "perhaps to-morrow morning will bring her.--You
posted that letter in time, Charlie?" she asked.

"Yes, mother," Charlie answered, in desperation, and in a very low voice.

"It will be too late to-morrow," said John Heedman, sinking back on his pillows exhausted--"it
will be too late." He lay so still for about an hour that Charlie thought he slept; after that
he called Charlie to him, and wished him to sit up that night with his mother. He spoke very
tenderly and lovingly, and told Charlie how happy his gratitude and love and obedience had
made him, and how he thanked God that Charlie had never told him an untruth or deceived him,
although he had still grave faults to overcome. He spoke for some time, every word sending
a pang to Charlie's heart, who knew how unworthy he was of his confidence and praise. He sobbed
hysterically, but was unable to speak.

What a night that was for Charlie, as he sat there with his mother hour after hour in the still
and darkened room! His anguish and remorse became unbearable. How could he let his father die
without undeceiving him and asking his forgiveness? He could not--he must not. Oh! if he had
only spoken at first, when the first false step was taken, he would not have been led into
all this sinful deceit, and that terrible lie would never have been told. Now it was such a
difficult task--and yet he must do it. He glanced at the timepiece: when the hour-hand reached
one he would tell him; he would think now what he had better say--how he should begin. How
fast that hour seemed to fly! It was one o'clock, and he had nothing ready to say; he dare
not begin; he would wait until two, perhaps his father would be awake then. Two o'clock came;
his father still slept, looking so calm and peaceful--how could he disturb him to listen to
his sad tale of sin and shame?

Soon after his father awoke; he started up and looked anxiously round. Charlie and his mother
felt instinctively that it was death. In his terror, Charlie sprang towards him. "Father, forgive
me," he burst out, in an imploring tone. "I did not post the letter in time. I told a lie--forgive
me--speak to me! pray forgive me!" A look of unutterable anguish passed over his father's face.
Charlie waited for an answer, but none came. His father was far away from him--he was at rest;
he was in that home where sin and sorrow cannot come.

It is useless attempting to describe Charlie's misery, it was so great. His father, who had
so loved and trusted him, had at last died, with his hope in him crushed, his confidence in
him broken. His father had died, listening to his confession of sin and deception, and without
being able to judge whether his repentance was sincere. The confession came too late for his
forgiveness or counsel.

The thought of all this completely crushed Charlie. For hours he sat crouching on the floor
in his own room, without a single comforting thought. He had not only deceived his father,
he had offended God. He sat in his misery, feeling careless whether he lived or died. No tears
came, but his heart throbbed with a dull, aching pain that was unbearable.

It was a bitter, bitter lesson to Charlie, but it did its work; it led him to think and pray
more earnestly, and to watch; and by degrees the darling sin that had been so long indulged
was crushed and rooted out.

