BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

NO. CCCXXVIII. FEBRUARY, 1843. VOL. LIII.

CONTENTS.

    ARNOLD'S LECTURES ON HISTORY
    POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.--NO. V.
    REYNOLDS'S DISCOURSES. PART II.
    THE YOUNG GREY HEAD
    IMAGINARY CONVERSATION. BY WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR.
        OLIVER CROMWELL AND SIR OLIVER CROMWELL
    CALEB STUKELY. PART XI.
    THE WORLD OF LONDON. SECOND SERIES. PART II.
    EYRE'S CABUL
    THE EVACUATION OF AFFGHANISTAN
    DEATH OF THOMAS HAMILTON, ESQ.

       *       *       *       *       *

    EDINBURGH: WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARNOLD'S LECTURES ON HISTORY.

If any doubt could exist as to the nature of the loss which the premature death of Dr Arnold
has inflicted on the literature of his country, the perusal of the volume before us must be
sufficient to show how great, how serious, nay, all circumstances taken together, we had almost
said how irreparable, it ought to be considered. Recently placed in a situation which gave
his extraordinary faculties as a teacher still wider scope than they before possessed, at an
age when the vivacity and energy of a commanding intellect were matured, not chilled, by constant
observation and long experience--gifted with industry to collect, with sagacity to appreciate,
with skill to arrange the materials of history--master of a vivid and attractive style for
their communication and display--eminent, above all, for a degree of candour and sincerity
which gave additional value to all his other endowments--what but leisure did Dr Arnold require
to qualify him for a place among our most illustrious authors? Under his auspices, we might
not unreasonably have hoped for works that would have rivalled those of the great continental
writers in depth and variety of research; in which the light of original and contemporaneous
documents would be steadily flung on the still unexplored portions of our history; and that
Oxford would have balanced the fame of Schlösser and Thierry and Sismondi, by the labours of
a writer peculiarly, and, as this volume proves, most affectionately her own.

The first Lecture in the present volume is full of striking and original remarks, delivered
with a delightful simplicity; which, since genius has become rare among us, has almost disappeared
from the conversation and writings of Englishmen. Open the pages of Herodotus, or Xenophon,
or Cæsar, and how plain, how unpretending are the preambles to their immortal works--in what
exquisite proportion does the edifice arise, without apparent effort, without ostentatious
struggle, without, if the allusion may be allowed, the sound of the axe or hammer, till "the
pile stands fixed her stately height" before us--the just admiration of succeeding ages! But
our modern filosofastri insist upon stunning us with the noise of their machinery, and blinding
us with the dust of their operations. They will not allow the smallest portion of their vulgar
labours to escape our notice. They drag us through the chaos of sand and lime, and stone and
bricks, which they have accumulated, hoping that the magnitude of the preparation may atone
for the meanness of the performance. Very different from this is the style of Dr Arnold. We
will endeavour to exhibit a just idea of his views, so far as they regard the true character
of history, the manner in which it should be studied, and the events by which his theory is
illustrated. To study history as it should be studied, much more to write history as it should
be written, is a task which may dignify the most splendid abilities, and occupy the most extended
life.

Lucian in one of his admirable treatises, ridicules those who imagine that any one who chooses
may sit down and write history as easily as he would walk or sleep, or perform any other function
of nature,

    "Thought, to the man that never thinks, may seem
    As natural as when asleep to dream."

From the remarks of this greatest of all satirists, it is manifest that, in his days, history
had been employed, as it has in ours, for the purposes of slander and adulation. He selects
particularly a writer who compared, in his account of the Persian wars, the Roman emperor to
Achilles, his enemy to Thersites; and if Lucian had lived in the present day, he would have
discovered that the race of such writers was not extinguished. He might have found ample proofs
that the detestable habit still prevails of interweaving the names of our contemporaries among
the accounts of former centuries, and thus corrupting the history of past times into a means
of abuse and flattery for the present. This is to degrade history into the worst style of a
Treasury pamphlet, or a daily newspaper. It is a fault almost peculiar to this country.

We are told in one of these works, for instance, that the "tones of Sir W. Follett's voice
are silvery"--a proposition that we do not at all intend to dispute; nor would it be easy to
pronounce any panegyric on that really great man in which we should not zealously concur; but
can it be necessary to mention this in a history of the eighteenth century? Or can any thing
be more trivial or offensive, or totally without the shadow of justification, than this forced
allusion to the "ignorant present time," in the midst of what ought to be an unbiassed narrative
of events that affected former generations? We do not know whether the author of this ingenious
allusion borrowed the idea from the advertisements in which our humbler artists recommend their
productions to vulgar notice; or whether it is the spontaneous growth of his own happy intellect:
but plagiarized or original, and however adapted it may be to the tone and keeping of his work,
its insertion is totally irreconcilable with the qualities that a man should possess who means
to instruct posterity. When gold is extracted from lead, or silver from tin, such a writer
may become an historian. "Forget," says Lucian, "the present, look to future ages for your
reward; let it be said of you that you are high-spirited, full of independence, that there
is nothing about you servile or fulsome."

Modern history is now exclusively to be considered. Modern history, separated from the history
of Greece and Rome, and the annals of barbarous emigration, by the event which above all others
has influenced, and continues still to influence, after so many centuries, the fate of Europe--the
fall of the Western Empire--the boundary line which separates modern from ancient history,
is not ideal and capricious, but definite and certain. It can neither be advanced nor carried
back. Modern history displays a national life still in existence. It commences with that period
in which the great elements of separate national existence now in being--race, language, institutions,
and religion--can be traced in simultaneous operation. To the influences which pervaded the
ancient world, another, at first scarcely perceptible, for a time almost predominant, and even
now powerful and comprehensive, was annexed. In the fourth century of the Christian era, the
Roman world comprised Christianity, Grecian intellect, Roman jurisprudence--all the ingredients,
in short, of modern history, except the Teutonic element. It is the infusion of this element
which has changed the quality of the compound, and leavened the whole mass with its peculiarities.
To this we owe the middle ages, the law of inheritance, the spirit of chivalry, and the feudal
system, than which no cause more powerful ever contributed to the miseries of mankind. It filled
Europe not with men but slaves; and the tyranny under which the people groaned was the more
intolerable, as it was wrought into an artificial method, confirmed by law, established by
inveterate custom, and even supported by religion. In vain did the nations cast their eyes
to Rome, from whom they had a right to claim assistance, or at least sympathy and consolation.
The appeal was useless. The living waters were tainted in their source. Instead of health they
spread abroad infection--instead of giving nourishment to the poor, they were the narcotics
which drenched in slumber the consciences of the rich. Wretched forms, ridiculous legends,
the insipid rhetoric of the Fathers, were the substitutes for all generous learning. The nobles
enslaved the body; the hierarchy put its fetters on the soul. The growth of the public mind
was checked and stunted and the misery of Europe was complete. The sufferer was taught to expect
his reward in another world; their oppressor, if his bequests were liberal, was sure of obtaining
consolation in this, and the kingdom of God was openly offered to the highest bidder. But to
the causes which gave rise to this state of things, we must trace our origin as a nation.

With the Britons whom Cæsar conquered, though they occupied the surface of our soil, we have,
nationally speaking, no concern; but when the white horse of Hengist, after many a long and
desperate struggle, floated in triumph or in peace from the Tamar to the Tweed, our existence
as a nation, the period to which we may refer the origin of English habits, language, and institutions,
undoubtedly begins. So, when the Franks established themselves west of the Rhine, the French
nation may be said to have come into being. True, the Saxons yielded to the discipline and
valour of a foreign race; true, the barbarous hordes of the Elbe and the Saal were not the
ancestors, as any one who travels in the south of France can hardly fail to see, of the majority
of the present nation of the French: but the Normans and Saxons sprang from the same stock,
and the changes worked by Clovis and his warriors were so vast and durable, (though, in comparison
with their conquered vassals, they were numerically few,) that with the invasion of Hengist
in the one case, and the battle of Poictiers in the other, the modern history of both countries
may not improperly be said to have begun. To the student of that history, however, one consideration
must occur, which imparts to the objects of his studies an interest emphatically its own. It
is this: he has strong reason to believe that all the elements of society are before him. It
may indeed be true that Providence has reserved some yet unknown tribe, wandering on the banks
of the Amour or of the Amazons, as the instrument of accomplishing some mighty purpose--humanly
speaking, however, such an event is most improbable. To adopt such an hypothesis, would be
in direct opposition to all the analogies by which, in the absence of clearer or more precise
motives, human infirmity must be guided. The map of the world is spread out before us; there
are no regions which we speak of in the terms of doubt and ignorance that the wisest Romans
applied to the countries beyond the Vistula and the Rhine, when in Lord Bacon's words "the
world was altogether home-bred." When Cicero jested with Trebatius on the little importance
of a Roman jurist among hordes of Celtic barbarians, he little thought that from that despised
country would arise a nation, before the blaze of whose conquests the splendour of Roman Empire
would grow pale; a nation which would carry the art of government and the enjoyment of freedom
to a perfection, the idea of which, had it been presented to the illustrious orator, stored
as his mind was with all the lore of Grecian sages, and with whatever knowledge the history
of his own country could supply, would have been consigned by him, with the glorious visions
of his own Academy, to the shady spaces of an ideal world. Had he, while bewailing the loss
of that freedom which he would not survive, disfigured as it was by popular tumult and patrician
insolence--had he been told that a figure far more faultless was one day to arise amid the
unknown forests and marshes of Britain, and to be protected by the rude hands of her barbarous
inhabitants till it reached the full maturity of immortal loveliness--the eloquence of Cicero
himself would have been silenced, and, whatever might have been the exultation of the philosopher,
the pride of the Roman would have died within him. But we can anticipate no similar revolution.
The nations by which the world is inhabited are known to us; the regions which they occupy
are limited; there are no fresh combinations to count upon, no reserves upon which we can depend;--there
is every reason to suppose that, in the great conflict with physical and moral evil, which
it is the destiny of man to wage, the last battalion is in the field.

The course to be adopted by the student of modern history is pointed out in the following pages;
and the remarks of Dr Arnold on this subject are distinguished by a degree of good sense and
discrimination which it is difficult to overrate. Vast indeed is the difference between ancient
and modern annals, as far as relates to the demand upon the student's time and attention. Instead
of sailing upon a narrow channel, the shores of which are hardly ever beyond his view, he launches
out upon an ocean of immeasurable extent, through which the greatest skill and most assiduous
labour are hardly sufficient to conduct him--

    "Ipse diem noctemque negat discernere coelo,
    Nec meminisse viæ, mediâ Palinurus in undâ."

Instead of a few great writers, the student is beset on all sides by writers of different sort
and degree, from the light memorialist to the great historian; instead of two countries, two
hemispheres are candidates for his attention; and history assumes a variety of garbs, many
of which were strangers to her during the earlier period of her existence. To the careful study
of many periods of history, not extending over any very wide portion of time, the labour of
a tolerably long life would be inadequate. The unpublished Despatches of Cardinal Granvelle
at Besançon, amount to sixty volumes. The archives of Venice (a mine, by the way, scarcely
opened) fill a large apartment. For printed works it may be enough to mention the Benedictine
editions and Munatoris Annals, historians of the dark and middle ages, relating to two countries
only, and two periods. All history, therefore, however insatiable may be the intellectual boulimia
that devours him, can never be a proper object of curiosity to any man. It is natural enough
that the first effect produced by this discovery on the mind of the youthful student should
be surprise and mortification; nor is it before the conviction that his researches, to be valuable,
must be limited, forces itself upon him, that he concentrates to some particular period, and
perhaps to some exclusive object, the powers of his undivided attention. When he has thus put
an end to his desultory enquiries, and selected the portion of history which it is his purpose
to explore, his first object should be to avail himself of the information which other travellers
in the same regions have been enabled to collect. Their mistakes will teach him caution; their
wanderings will serve to keep him in the right path. Weak and feeble as he may be, compared
with the first adventurers who have visited the mighty maze before him, yet he has not their
difficulties to encounter, nor their perils to apprehend. The clue is in his hands which may
lead him through the labyrinth in which it has been the lot of so many master-spirits to wander--

    "And find no end, in boundless mazes lost."

But it is time to hear Dr Arnold:--

     "To proceed, therefore, with our supposed student's course of
     reading. Keeping the general history which he has been reading
     as his text, and getting from it the skeleton, in a manner, of
     the future figure, he must now break forth excursively to the
     right and left, collecting richness and fulness of knowledge
     from the most various sources. For example, we will suppose
     that where his popular historian has mentioned that an alliance
     was concluded between two powers, or a treaty of peace agreed
     upon, he first of all resolves to consult the actual documents
     themselves, as they are to be found in some one of the great
     collections of European treaties, or, if they are connected
     with English history, in Rymer's Foedera. By comparing the
     actual treaty with his historian's report of its provisions, we
     get, in the first place, a critical process of some value,
     inasmuch as the historian's accuracy is at once tested: but
     there are other purposes answered besides. An historian's
     report of a treaty is almost always an abridgement of it; minor
     articles will probably be omitted, and the rest condensed, and
     stripped of all their formal language. But our object now being
     to reproduce to ourselves so far as it is possible, the very
     life of the period which we are studying, minute particulars
     help us to do this; nay, the very formal enumeration of titles,
     and the specification of towns and districts in their legal
     style, help to realize the time to us, if it be only from their
     very particularity. Every common history records the substance
     of the treaty of Troyes, May 1420, by which the succession to
     the crown of France was given to Henry V. But the treaty in
     itself, or the English version of it which Henry sent over to
     England to be proclaimed there, gives a far more lively
     impression of the triumphant state of the great conqueror, and
     the utter weakness of the poor French king, Charles VI., in the
     ostentatious care taken to provide for the recognition of his
     formal title during his lifetime, while all real power is ceded
     to Henry, and provision is made for the perpetual union
     hereafter of the two kingdoms under his sole government.

     "I have named treaties as the first class of official
     instruments to be consulted, because the mention of them occurs
     unavoidably in every history. Another class of documents,
     certainly of no less importance, yet much less frequently
     referred to by popular historians, consists of statutes,
     ordinances, proclamations, acts, or by whatever various names
     the laws of each particular period happen to be designated.
     That the Statute Book has not been more habitually referred to
     by writers on English history, has always seemed to me a
     matter of surprise. Legislation has not perhaps been so busy in
     every country as it has been with us; yet every where, and in
     every period, it has done something. Evils, real or supposed,
     have always existed, which the supreme power in the nation has
     endeavoured to remove by the provisions of law. And under the
     name of laws I would include the acts of councils, which form
     an important part of the history of European nations during
     many centuries; provincial councils, as you are aware, having
     been held very frequently, and their enactments relating to
     local and particular evils, so that they illustrate history in
     a very lively manner. Now, in these and all the other laws of
     any given period, we find in the first place, from their
     particularity, a great additional help towards becoming
     familiar with the times in which they were passed; we learn the
     names of various officers, courts, and processes; and these,
     when understood, (and I suppose always the habit of reading
     nothing without taking pains to understand it,) help us, from
     their very number, to realize the state of things then
     existing; a lively notion of any object depending on our
     clearly seeing some of its parts, and the more we people it, so
     to speak, with distinct images, the more it comes to resemble
     the crowded world around us. But in addition to this benefit,
     which I am disposed to rate in itself very highly, every thing
     of the nature of law has a peculiar interest and value,
     because it is the expression of the deliberate mind of the
     supreme government of society; and as history, as commonly
     written, records so much of the passionate and unreflecting
     part of human nature, we are bound in fairness to acquaint
     ourselves with its calmer and better part also."

The inner life of a nation will be determined by its end, that end being the security of its
highest happiness, or, as it is "conceived and expressed more piously, a setting forth of God's
glory by doing his appointed work." The history of a nation's internal life is the history
of its institutions and its laws. Here, then, it is that we shall find the noblest lessons
of history; here it is that we must look for the causes, direct and indirect, which have modified
the characters, and decided the fate of nations. To this imperishable possession it is that
the philosopher appeals for the corroboration of his theory, as it is to it also that the statesman
ought to look for the regulation of his practice. Religion, property, science, commerce, literature,
whatever can civilize and instruct rude mankind, whatever can embellish life in its more advanced
condition, even till it exhibit the wonders of which it is now the theatre, may be referred
to this subject, and are comprised under this denomination. The importance of history has been
the theme of many a pen, but we question whether it has ever been more beautifully described
than in the following passage:--

     "Enough has been said, I think, to show that history contains
     no mean treasures; that, as being the biography of a nation, it
     partakes of the richness and variety of those elements which
     make up a nation's life. Whatever there is of greatness in the
     final cause of all human thought and action, God's glory and
     man's perfection, that is the measure of the greatness of
     history. Whatever there is of variety and intense interest in
     human nature, in its elevation, whether proud as by nature, or
     sanctified as by God's grace; in its suffering, whether blessed
     or unblessed, a martyrdom or a judgment; in its strange
     reverses, in its varied adventures, in its yet more varied
     powers, its courage and its patience, its genius and its
     wisdom, its justice and its love, that also is the measure of
     the interest and variety of history. The treasures indeed are
     ample, but we may more reasonably fear whether we may have
     strength and skill to win them."

In passing we may observe, after Dr Arnold, that the most important bearing of a particular
institution upon the character of a nation is not always limited to the effect which is most
obvious; few who have watched the proceedings in our courts of justice can doubt that, in civil
cases, the interference of a jury is often an obstacle, and sometimes an insurmountable obstacle,
to the attainment of justice. Dr Arnold's remarks on this subject are entitled to great attention:--

     "The effect," he says, "of any particular arrangement of the
     judicial power, is seen directly in the greater or less purity
     with which justice is administered; but there is a further
     effect, and one of the highest importance, in its furnishing to
     a greater or less portion of the nation one of the best means
     of moral and intellectual culture--the opportunity, namely, of
     exercising the functions of a judge. I mean, that to accustom a
     number of persons to the intellectual exercise of attending to,
     and weighing, and comparing evidence, and to the moral exercise
     of being placed in a high and responsible situation, invested
     with one of God's own attributes, that of judgment, and having
     to determine with authority between truth and falsehood, right
     and wrong, is to furnish them with very high means of moral and
     intellectual culture--in other words, it is providing them with
     one of the highest kinds of education. And thus a judicial
     constitution may secure a pure administration of justice, and
     yet fail as an engine of national cultivation, where it is
     vested in the hands of a small body of professional men, like
     the old French parliament. While, on the other hand, it may
     communicate the judicial office very widely, as by our system
     of juries, and thus may educate, if I may so speak, a very
     large portion of the nation, but yet may not succeed in
     obtaining the greatest certainty of just legal decisions. I do
     not mean that our jury system does not succeed, but it is
     conceivable that it should not. So, in the same way, different
     arrangements of the executive and legislative powers should be
     always regarded in this twofold aspect--as effecting their
     direct objects, good government and good legislation; and as
     educating the nation more or less extensively, by affording to
     a greater or less number of persons practical lessons in
     governing and legislating."

History is an account of the common purpose pursued by some one of the great families of the
human race. It is the biography of a nation; as the history of a particular sect, or a particular
body of men, describes the particular end which the sect or body was instituted to pursue,
so history, in its more comprehensive sense, describes the paramount object which the first
and sovereign society--the society to which all others are necessarily subordinate--endeavours
to attain. According to Dr Arnold, a nation's life is twofold, external and internal. Its external
life consists principally in wars. "Here history has been sufficiently busy. The wars of the
human race have been recorded when every thing else has perished."

Mere antiquarianism, Dr Arnold justly observes, is calculated to contract and enfeeble the
understanding. It is a pedantic love of detail, with an indifference to the result, for which
alone it can be considered valuable. It is the mistake, into which men are perpetually falling,
of the means for the end. There are people to whom the tragedies of Sophocles are less precious
than the Scholiast on Lycophron, and who prize the speeches of Demosthenes chiefly because
they may fling light on the dress of an Athenian citizen. The same tendency discovers itself
in other pursuits. Oxen are fattened into plethoras to encourage agriculture, and men of station
dress like grooms, and bet like blacklegs, to keep up the breed of horses. It is true that
such evils will happen when agriculture is encouraged, and a valuable breed of horses cherished;
but they are the consequences, not the cause of such a state of things. So the disciples of
the old philosophers drank hemlock to acquire pallid countenances--but they are as far from
obtaining the wisdom of their masters by this adventitious resemblance, as the antiquarian
is from the historian. To write well about the past, we must have a vigorous and lively perception
of the present. This, says Dr Arnold, is the merit of Mitford. It is certainly the only one
he possesses; a person more totally unqualified for writing history at all--to say nothing
of the history of Greece--it is difficult for us, aided as our imagination may be by the works
of our modern writers, to conceive. But Raleigh, whom he quotes afterwards, is indeed a striking
instance of that combination of actual experience with speculative knowledge which all should
aim at, but which it seldom happens that one man in a generation is fortunate enough to obtain.

From the sixteenth century, the writers of history begin to assume a different character from
that of their predecessors. During the middle ages, the elements of society were fewer and
less diversified. Before that time the people were nothing. Popes, emperors, kings, nobles,
bishops, knights, are the only materials about which the writer of history cared to know or
enquire. Perhaps some exception to this rule might be found in the historians of the free towns
of Italy; but they are few and insignificant. After that period, not only did the classes of
society increase, but every class was modified by more varieties of individual life. Even within
the last century, the science of political economy has given a new colouring to the thoughts
and actions of large communities, as the different opinions held by its votaries have multiplied
them into distinct and various classes. Modern historians, therefore, may be divided into two
classes; the one describing a state of society in which the elements are few; the other the
times in which they were more numerous. As a specimen of the first order, he selects Bede.
Bede was born in 674, fifty years after the flight of Mahomet from Mecca. He died in 755, two
or three years after the victory of Charles Martel over the Saracens. His ecclesiastical history,
in five books, describes the period from Augustine's arrival in Kent, 597.

Dr Arnold's dissertation on Bede involves him in the discussion of a question on which much
skill and ability have been exercised. We allude to the question of miracles. "The question,"
says he, "in Bede takes this form--What credit is to be attached to the frequent stories of
miracles or wonders which occur in his narrative?" He seizes at once upon the difficulty, without
compromise or evasion. He makes a distinction between a wonder and a miracle: "to say that
all recorded wonders are false, from those recorded by Herodotus to the latest reports of animal
magnetism, would be a boldness of assertion wholly unjustifiable." At the same time he thinks
the character of Bede, added to the religious difficulty, may incline us to limit miracles
to the earliest times of Christianity, and refuse our belief to all which are reported by the
historians of subsequent centuries. He then proceeds to consider the questions which suggest
themselves when we read Matthew Paris, or still more, any of the French, German, or Italian
historians of the same period:--

     "The thirteenth century contains in it, at its beginning, the
     most splendid period of the Papacy, the time of Innocent the
     Third; its end coincides with that great struggle between
     Boniface the Eighth and Philip the Fair, which marks the first
     stage of its decline. It contains the reign of Frederick the
     Second, and his long contest with the popes in Italy; the
     foundation of the orders of friars, Dominican and Franciscan;
     the last period of the crusades, and the age of the greatest
     glory of the schoolmen. Thus, full of matters of interest as it
     is, it will yet be found that all its interest is more or less
     connected with two great questions concerning the church;
     namely, the power of the priesthood in matters of government
     and in matters of faith; the merits of the contest between the
     Papacy and the kings of Europe; the nature and character of
     that influence over men's minds which affected the whole
     philosophy of the period, the whole intellectual condition of
     the Christian world."--P. 138.

The pretensions and corruptions of the Church are undoubtedly the chief object to which, at
this period, the attention of the reader must be attracted. "Is the church system of Innocent
III. in faith or government the system of the New Testament?" Is the difference between them
inconsiderable, such as may be accounted for by the natural progress of society, or does the
rent extend to the foundation? "The first century," says Dr Arnold, "is to determine our judgment
of the second and of all subsequent centuries. It will not do to assume that the judgment must
be interpreted by the very practices and opinions, the merits of which it has to try." As a
specimen of the chroniclers, he selects Philip de Comines, almost the last great writer of
his class. In him is exemplified one of the peculiar distinctions of attaching to modern history
the importance of attending to genealogies.

     "For instance, Comines records the marriage of Mary, duchess
     of Burgundy, daughter and sole heiress of Charles the Bold,
     with Maximilian, archduke of Austria. This marriage, conveying
     all the dominions of Burgundy to Maximilian and his heirs,
     established a great independent sovereign on the frontiers of
     France, giving to him on the north, not only the present
     kingdoms of Holland and Belgium, but large portions of what is
     now French territory, the old provinces of Artois and French
     Flanders, French Hainault and French Luxemburg; while on the
     east it gave him Franche Comté, thus yielding him a footing
     within the Jura, on the very banks of the Saône. Thence ensued
     in after ages, when the Spanish branch of the house of Austria
     had inherited this part of its dominions--the long contests
     which deluged the Netherlands with blood, the campaigns of King
     William and Luxembourg, the nine years of efforts, no less
     skilful than valiant, in which Marlborough broke his way
     through the fortresses of the iron frontier. Again, when Spain
     became in a manner French by the accession of the House of
     Bourbon, the Netherlands reverted once more to Austria itself;
     and from thence the powers of Europe advanced, almost in our
     own days, to assail France as a republic; and on this ground,
     on the plains of Fleurus, was won the first of those great
     victories which, for nearly twenty years, carried the French
     standards triumphantly over Europe. Thus the marriage recorded
     by Comines has been working busily down to our very own times:
     it is only since the settlement of 1814, and that more recent
     one of 1830, that the Netherlands have ceased to be effected by
     the union of Charles the Bold's daughter with Maximilian of
     Austria"--P. 148.

Again, in order to understand the contest which Philip de Comines records between a Frenchman
and a Spaniard for the crown of Naples, we must go back to the dark and bloody page in the
annals of the thirteenth century, which relates the extinction of the last heir of the great
Swabian race of Hohenstauffen by Charles of Anjou, the fit and unrelenting instrument of Papal
hatred--the dreadful expiation of that great crime by the Sicilian Vespers, the establishment
of the House of Anjou in Sicily, the crimes and misfortunes of Queen Joanna, the new contest
occasioned by her adoption--all these events must be known to him who would understand the
expedition of Charles VIII. The following passage is an admirable description of the reasons
which lend to the pages of Philip de Comines a deep and melancholy interest:--

