March 22nd, Sunday. We were ordered to be ready for inspection but there was none on account
of some of the rifles being loaded. Toward night we were ordered to be ready for marching,
and have such things as we could get along without, packed in boxes. It was raining as we were
getting ready for another start. Horace Newbury of our company died last night and we laid
him to rest this morning under a beautiful magnolia tree.

March 24th. In the forenoon we worked on our guns and in the afternoon we had inspection and
dress-parade.

March 25th. I was detailed to go on picket duty this morning. Lieutenant Gorman was officer
of the picket. The night was cool and clear and everything was quiet all along the lines.

March 26th. A beautiful morning with the birds singing merrily. I got into camp about eleven
o'clock. We had orders about nine o'clock in the evening to be ready for marching. It was very
rainy weather and there was very little done in camp.

March 27th. We had orders to march and all was packing and confusion. I was ordered to help
put our tents and baggage aboard the boat, the St. Mary. We had all our things aboard this
little craft about five o'clock in the afternoon. At last, after being over a week packing
up, waiting for orders, we were on the move. We left Baton Rouge at five o'clock and reached
this place at nine, (as luck would have it) in a rain-storm. Lay on the ground under the trees
all night.

March 28th. We just received marching orders again. Where we were going to nobody seemed to
know. I supposed our destination was Brashear City and Burwick Bay, but beyond that nothing
was known. Rumor said, Texas and Red River. We took tents and all our baggage and did not expect
again to see Baton Rouge.

Sunday morning, March 29th. Arrived in Donaldsonville about nine o'clock last evening. Slept
on the ground all night. In the morning had some hard-tack and coffee. We received a mail.
I got several letters, one was from mother. I went to a Catholic meeting. Donaldsonville is
an exceedingly pretty place, very old-fashioned, shingled-roofed town. A bayou extends through
the center, some three hundred yards wide; it runs to the gulf and is so deep that a frigate
lies in it about a mile from where it sets in from the Mississippi. The catalpa and China-bell
trees were in full blossom and the pecans were leafing out. There was a Catholic church here
that looked like a barn outside but quite pretty inside, as I saw for myself, and thither the
people who were mostly French and Spanish, were flocking. We here enjoyed the luxury of seeing
ladies, in clean white petticoats, walking the streets. And really we had to laugh, for actually
those petticoats were the most home-like things we had seen for some months. "Billy" Wilson's
Zouaves, who were in our division, were placed under arrest and had their arms taken from them.
They got very drunk coming down on the boat and mutinied.

March 30th. You can't imagine how beautiful the flowers were looking. Cherokee roses, jessamines,
jonquils, and a great variety of flowers were in blossom. We lived out under the trees with
the rain pattering upon us. We were greatly bothered with vermin, which it is almost impossible
to pick off. Campaigning evidently agreed with me, for I had gained several pounds since leaving
New York.

April 1st. We were on the march very early. Our brigade went ahead as skirmishers. We went
through a very pleasant country. We started about seven o'clock on the morning of April 2nd.
Our company was guard of the baggage train. We went through a place called Thibodeaux, a very
pretty village. We stopped "a right smart way," from Thibodeaux, as the contrabands used to
tell us when we inquired the distance of them. We were there only a short time, when we were
crowded on to some freight cars like cattle and transported to Bayou Boeuf, arriving at ten
o'clock at night, pretty well fagged out.

We had some awfully hot and fatiguing marches and the boys were very foot-sore. I held out
wonderfully; did not so much as raise a sign of a blister, though carrying a rubber blanket,
a heavy overcoat, canteen full of water, haversack, with two days' rations in it,--by no means
a small load as I found after a few miles' march. My nose and cheeks underwent a skinning operation
on our Port Hudson expedition and I felt quite badly when I found that they were again peeling.

April 3rd. We have fixed up our shelter tents, and I helped unload our baggage. The day was
pleasant but Bayou Boeuf was a very unpleasant place. A comrade came into our camp from the
Twelfth Regiment, C.V. His name was Wells Hubbard of Glastonbury, Conn.

April 5th, Sunday. On camp guard I was stationed in front of General Grover's headquarters
for the night. During the day we crossed over the Bayou Lefourche to the main part of the town
and spent some time in exploring it. It must have been an exceedingly beautiful place before
the bombardment a short time before. Many of the houses were lying in ruins. Then there was
a very pretty cemetery embowered in red and white roses which hung in clusters over the monuments.
I saw on some of the graves fresh wreaths of roses and pinks and on many pictures were hanging
showing the weeping survivors beneath a weeping willow. Blue pinks seemed to be a favorite
flower and were planted around a great many of the graves. There were some old tombstones at
that place.

Again we were all packed up and on the move at about 8 A.M. The road, in fact all the way to
Thibodeaux, lay along the Bayou Lefourche, a clear and cool stream, on which our steamers were
passing bearing the sick and baggage. As we wound along under the catalpa and China-ball trees,
the people were out on the piazzas watching us; this seemed to be their occupation almost everywhere.
Such a slovenly set you never saw,--the women with frizzled hair and slipshod shoes. They were
evidently very poor. But, oh, the fine clover fields we passed. The heart of a cow would have
leaped with joy at the sight; and it was just so all the way to Thibodeaux. It must have been
a splendid farming country. Sugar cane and cotton fields were also looking fine. After marching
about twelve miles we encamped at Paincourtville, pretty well tired out. There were plenty
of chickens, pigs, and sheep running loose of which we were not slow to avail ourselves. About
the last thing I saw when I had lain down for the night was a porker squealing for all he was
worth and charging blindly among the camp-fires over bunks and slumbering soldiers pursued
by a band of shouting men discharging all kinds of deadly missiles at him.

April 7th. We were off at 7 A.M. Still among clover fields. On our march we passed some beautiful
plantations; one was especially so. It was perfectly embowered in trees, had a smooth-cut lawn.
There was a fountain and some swans swimming in the pond in front of the house. On the veranda
there were two ladies working and some little children were playing. It was the prettiest sight
I had seen in Louisiana. It fairly stilled the boys, seeing those children, and I heard more
than one tough fellow sing out "God bless them." At another little white cottage we saw a lady
whose husband had fallen in the army. She sent her slaves out where we were with pails of cool
water. It was a simple act but we could not help blessing her for it.

And then we resumed our dusty way. The heat and dust were very intense; not a breath of air
was stirring. We marched fourteen miles to Labadieville, and camped for the night on a sugar
plantation, where we just had sugar and molasses to our hearts' content. Early the next morning
we started in a flood of moonlight that silvered the grass with dew-drops. There is something
very fascinating in camping-out; the camp-fires far and wide, the hum and bustle everywhere.
It makes one forget his troubles.

April 9th. We had marching orders this morning. We marched as far as Brashear City, and camped
for the night. It was the hardest day's march of all. The men staggered over the road from
fatigue and sore feet. We felt better when we passed from the road into the clover field to
lie down. At 6 P.M. came the order to fall in and we were ordered on board the little steamer,
St. Mary. We stayed there all night,--expecting to start every minute.

April 11th. Although it was a small boat, the Fifty-second Massachusetts, the Twenty-fourth
and Twenty-fifth Connecticut, and a battery with horses, were just packed on board. Just imagine
how we must have been crowded together.

April 12th. We steamed out of the bay at 9 o'clock, the Clifton flagship ahead, then the Calhoun,
Arizona, Laurel Hill, and St. Mary, also several tugs. We were now under convoy of these gunboats;
they were to pilot us up through the chain of lakes from Burwick Bay into Grand Lake, where
we arrived about 12 o'clock. It was an extremely hot day for so many to be crowded together,
and we slept but little.

April 13th. We went ashore at one o'clock. There was some firing on our picket line at night.
I was detailed to go back to the lake and help bring up some rations where our forces were
stationed. There was a heavy thunder shower and we slept but little all night.

I want to say here that we landed our forces, after sending out a party to reconnoitre under
cover of the Calhoun, which shelled the woods while we came ashore. Our object was to cut off
the retreat of the Confederates while Emory's and Sherman's division crossed Burwick Bay to
attack them.

April 14th. On this date came the hard-fought battle of Irish Bend. We started out at daylight
as skirmishers without any breakfast. When we had gone about a mile, brisk firing commenced
on both sides. We advanced very fast, loading and firing as we went. When we had advanced very
near the Rebel batteries and supposed that everything was going well, we were flanked by the
enemy. We were immediately ordered to fall back a short distance. The Thirteenth Connecticut
took our places soon in solid column, when the tune changed and the Confederates retreated
into the woods, whence they came. When our brigade got together and formed in line of battle,
we were again ordered to the front, where the Rebels sent shells into our ranks from their
gunboat Diana. They burned her about two o'clock and retreated.

April 15th. This morning I thought I must write a little in my diary. I think it was through
the mercy of God that my life was spared through the previous day's fight. It seemed a miracle
that one came out alive. I felt very thankful that I was able to come out of the Battle of
Irish Bend without a scratch, after hearing the horrible results. Our regiment suffered severely.
For about two hours we were under a hot fire entirely unsupported. We went into the fight with
380 men and lost 83 killed and wounded and 14 missing. Our third brigade was about the only
one engaged and we lost in that short space of time over 300 men killed, wounded and missing.
Colonel Birge had his horse shot from under him. We had two officers killed and four wounded.
It seems almost a miracle, when I think of it at this time, that so many escaped without a
mark. We started on the march on the morning of April 15, about nine o'clock pursuing the Rebels
very closely through the day. It was a fine rich country that we passed through; the cane and
cotton fields were looking finely. We went into camp at night near a sugar mill that had a
quantity of sugar in it, to which we helped ourselves. There was considerable firing through
the day.

A more detailed account of the Battle of Irish Bend is here given by Major Thomas McManus of
the Twenty-fifth.

THE BATTLE OF IRISH BEND.

Interesting Reminiscences of Terrible Conflict Between States.

Horrors of War Graphically Told by General Thomas McManus, Who Was Major of the Twenty-fifth
Regiment, Connecticut Volunteers.

By request of Major Thomas McManus I will give a brief account of the country of lower Louisiana
and the battle of Irish Bend, as given by him in an address at St. Patrick's Church, Collinsville,
April 23, 1893, and published in the Hartford Post of the date of April 14, 1913, being fifty
years to a day after that terrible conflict:

Lower Louisiana is a marshy, swampy level stretch of country with an imperceptible coast line.
No one can tell where the solid ground ends or where the sea begins. Approaching from the Gulf
of Mexico, you find your ship in muddy waters, and by and by you see here and there a speck
of mud itself, emerging above the surface, and barely large enough to be noticed, and after
a while these small islands grow together and you begin to realize that there are distinctly
defined banks each side of the broad muddy channel through which you are sailing, intersected
here and there by other channels extending in every direction. Twenty miles perhaps from the
place where you first perceived indications of real mud, the land will be firm enough to sustain
a few piles supporting a fisherman's cabin or pilot's hut. Ten miles further on and you may
see signs of life and cultivation. The river banks have risen to a height of two or three feet
above the level of the water. The whole southwestern part of the state is a network of bayous
or natural canals, usually narrow and always deep. In summer they are mere channels of drainage,
but in spring they are full to the top and often overflowing thus making a system of natural
waterways that reach within a mile or two of every plantation with currents strong enough to
carry the flat boats laden with sugar, cotton and corn to New Orleans, Brashear or the ports
on the coast. Here and there the yet unfilled depressions in the soil form large but shallow
lakes, that in the dry season are mere marshes.

This was the region where it was fated that the Twenty-fifth Connecticut regiment should make
its spring campaign in 1863. Early in December we had taken possession of Baton Rouge on the
Mississippi and had employed our time in practically learning the art of war, and we prided
ourselves on our proficiency in drill and discipline. The winter had been, to us who were accustomed
to our rigorous climate here, very mild, but we had begun to feel as early as the end of March,
a foretaste of that terrible enervation that the coming summer was to bring to our men habituated
to our bracing air of Connecticut. We were somewhat hardened to the little outdoor inconveniences
of Louisiana. We didn't mind the mosquitoes, although they were ten times as big--a hundred
times as hungry and a thousand times as vicious as those we raise here. We didn't mind the
wood-ticks, and although we preferred not to have moccasin snakes in our tents, they would
come sometimes. We had made a movement on Port Hudson early in March and the Twenty-fifth was
in the lead, seven miles in advance of the main army. We had built a bridge over the Bayou
Montecino, and had lain on our arms all night awaiting orders to attack Port Hudson, when Farragut's
fleet attempted to pass the batteries. Only two of his ships, the Hartford and Albatross, succeeded,
while the Richmond was disabled and the Mississippi was destroyed. We had engaged in a night
skirmish with the enemy at Montecino, and had lost one man in that affair. We had retired from
Port Hudson as rear guard to the column. Ours was the post of danger every time, and we had
encountered the worst storm and waded through the deepest mud to be found on the continent
and had bivouacked in a field almost as dry as the bottom of Lake Ontario.

With these experiences we felt like veterans, but we didn't then know how much we had to learn.
On March 31, our regiment was transported to Donaldsonville, fifty miles below Baton Rouge,
from there we marched beside Bayou Lefourche to Thibodeaux and then took the cars for Bayou
Boeuf, and after a few days' halt, marched over to Brashear. We knew that something was going
to be done, but didn't know what. We knew that somebody was going to be hurt, but didn't know
who. We knew that some folks were going to get badly whipped, but it wasn't us. We were certain
of that. Our superior officer and officers couldn't tell us anything or wouldn't tell us anything,
and I have since come to the conclusion that they were very much like some of the wire pulling
politicians of the present day. They didn't know themselves. It may be wisdom sometimes in
war and in politics, not to let your followers know just what you intend to make them do, but
it's mighty poor policy to let your enemy know it first.

On Saturday, April 11, 1863, the Twenty-fifth Connecticut, less than 500 strong, embarked on
the steamer St. Mary, a New York and Galveston liner built to carry 500 passengers at a pinch,
but loaded on this occasion with 2,500.

We were crowded. We were just packed as close as the squares of hardtack in the bread barrels,
closer than sardines in a box. So close that we didn't have room to sweat. We had to hold our
haversacks that contained three days' rations of sheet iron biscuit and salt pork, on our heads.
The decks were covered with a solid mass of humanity. We cast off the lines and our ship slowly
steamed up the Atchafalaya, now and then rubbing the banks so closely that we could grasp the
branches of the magnolia and cypress that formed one green, unbroken fringe on either side.

General Emory's division of Banks' army had already moved up the west bank of the Bayou Teche,
fighting its way against the fresh active troops of Dick Taylor. We were in General Cuvier
Grover's division, and were expected to sail up Grand Lake and disembark at Hutchins Landing,
where the Teche, by a sharp bend, comes within two miles of the lake; and on this narrow strip
was the only road (as we supposed) over which an army and especially artillery and baggage
wagons could pass. During Saturday night, Sunday, and Sunday night we were crammed, stifled
and suffocated on the steamer's deck, as she slowly felt her way up through the muddy and shallow
water of Grand Lake. To have run aground would have been disastrous failure to the whole expedition.
Towing astern were large flat bottomed scows, loaded with artillery and artillery men. These
were indispensable when on Monday morning we found that it was impossible for our ship to approach
within half a mile of the shore, and the men were ferried from the steamer to the bank, where
a lively little skirmish was going on between some Confederate scouts and Col. Dick Holcomb's
First Louisiana. General Grover was ahead of us, smoking as usual, and in his excitement he
had lighted a second cigar and was vigorously puffing and pulling at both corners of his mouth.
He grasped Colonel Bissell by the hands in welcome, as the colonel leaped from the boat. No
delay now, forward! A few hundred yards brought us to the woods. Our skirmishers went through
and we soon had orders to follow. We halted at the open clearing on the other side and awaited
to hear from General Grover, who had gone ahead to reconnoitre. Off to the southwest we could
hear the artillery firing that told us that Emory's forces were having a fierce fight with
Taylor's, only a few miles away. Another half mile advance, another halt and again forward.
Just as the sun was going down we crossed the Teche over a drawbridge and filed into the main
road and skirted the fertile plantation of Madame Porter. This stately, handsome lady, surrounded
by scores of fat, happy looking and well clad slaves, stood in front of her elegant home and
sadly watched us as we passed. No farm in Connecticut, however carefully supervised, could
show better evidences of wise management than this. The houses, fences, granaries, fields,
slave quarters and everything, were in perfect order--all were clean, whole, and systematically
arranged. The fertile soil seemed to proclaim audibly to our farmer boys its readiness to give
back a hundred and fifty fold for its seed and care. The shades of night were falling fast
when we filed into an open ploughed field and moved by the right of companies to the rear into
columns. We halted, stacked arms, ate hardtack and raw pork, and rested. The ground was soft
alluvial; mist came with sundown and rain came with the darkness, and the surface of the earth
was soon transformed into soft, deep mud. There was no noise, no music, no laughter. Every
man knew instinctively that the morrow's sun would shine upon many a corpse. Our generals had
believed, and we had hoped, that as soon as Taylor would find this large force of ours suddenly
occupying the road in his rear, he would submit to the inevitable and surrender, but he had
not surrendered and would not surrender, and that meant a fierce engagement for us. As soon
as darkness had set in, General Grover sent up rockets to apprise General Banks of our position.
Sleep was impossible. Colonel Bissell and I sat on a bread box, back to back, our feet in the
soft mud and our clothing gradually absorbing the rain that fell steadily upon us. We were
all on foot, officers and men alike. Our horses, baggage, and impediments had been left at
Brashear to follow the column of General Emory.

For a mile below Madame Porter's plantation the Bayou Teche runs to the southeast and then
turns sharply to the southwest towards Franklin, a very pretty village, some five miles below.
The road following the sinuosities of the stream runs parallel to it, with a strip of a few
rods in width between. We enter an immense cane field, its furrows in line with the road. On
the west the field was bounded by a rail fence, beyond which arose a dense wood of magnolias,
cotton wood and semi-tropical trees looking like a long green wall. Far in front arose a transverse
wall like to the first, and making at its intersection a right angle. At this angle, the road
entered the wood, near to the ground this forest was absolutely impenetrable to the sight,
by reason of the suffocating growth of briars, vines, palmettos and underbrush. We ought to
have occupied these woods the night before, and have hemmed the enemy in the open beyond. We
now knew that the foe was in our immediate front. We marched down the field, the right wing
deployed as skirmishers, the left wing in close battalion front following a few rods in its
rear. By and by a puff of smoke from the green wall in front of us and a second or two afterwards
the crack of a rifle. The fight had begun; another puff, another crack then more and more,
multiplying as we approached. The bend in the road is now disclosed, the enemy's skirmishers
disappeared from our front to reappear in greater numbers on our right. Our skirmishers were
called in and we changed front forward on first company, moved down towards the wood on the
right, and halting about 150 yards from the fence, we poured a volley into the enemy's ranks.
The One Hundred and Fifty-ninth New York came down into line on our left, the Twenty-sixth
Maine formed in our rear, the Thirteenth Connecticut took position on our extreme left occupying
both sides of the road. The canes of the previous year's sugar crop stood in the field and
their volley firing didn't get our range, and our lines were parallel with the furrows. The
enemy's shot rattled through the dry stalks, crackling like hail against the windows. The enemy
were armed with the smooth bores, every cartridge charged with a bullet and three buck shot,
while our regiment was armed with Enfield rifles and so the Rebels, man for man were giving
us four shots to our one in return.

The enemy had an immense advantage in position and the conviction was stealing over us that
they had the advantage in numbers also. Our men had warmed up to their work; every soldier
had long before drained the last drop from his canteen; the sun was rising high and hot and
we learned then that there is no thirst so burning and terrible as that which seizes upon the
soldier in battle. Every command given by the Confederate officers was as distinctly heard
by us as if given in our own companies. Their lines already extended far beyond our flank and
their oft-repeated cheers told us how rapidly their ranks were being increased by new arrivals.
Suddenly a loud cheer from the Rebels; then the thundering war of a field piece, and in an
instant from overhead came a crack, with a rain of iron fragments as a shell exploded right
over our line; another roar, a crack, and iron shower and we see to our dismay two brazen guns
admirably served, trained directly upon us pouring shell grape and cannister into our ranks,
while their musketry fire grew hotter and fiercer than ever. Our men were nearing the end of
their supply of ammunition. If the Confederates had charged upon us at this time they would
have annihilated our brigade!

Wounded men were crawling to the rear, where Dr. Wood, with McGill and his assistants, stood
under their yellow hospital flag. Col. Bissell's voice rang clear and cheerful as ever, but
his face was anxious. Down into the field came Bradley's battery at a gallop and very soon
their guns were answering the enemy's. Up went Bissell's sword, with a joyful cheer, as he
shouted to Lieutenant Dewey "There's music in the air!" Our re-enforcements of artillery gave
us renewed spirits but it was in vain to hope for victory against a better posted and overwhelming
force.

