Isolation and want of money naturally turn the thoughts of an energetic young man to marriage.
James Stephen resolved once more to appeal to Anne Stent. Her father's doors were closed to
him; but after long watching he managed to encounter her as she was walking. He declared his
unaltered passion, and she listened with apparent sympathy. She showed a reserve, however,
which was presently explained. In obedience to her parents' wishes, she had promised to marry
a young man who was on his return from the colonies. The avowal led to a pathetic scene: Anne
Stent wept and fainted, and finally her feelings became so clear that the couple pledged themselves
to each other; and the young gentleman from the colonies was rejected. Mr. Stent was indignant,
and sent his daughter to live elsewhere.

The young couple, however, were not forbidden to meet, and found an ally in James Stephen's
former schoolfellow, Thomas Stent. He was now a midshipman in the royal navy; and he managed
to arrange meetings between his sister and her lover. Stent soon had to go to sea, but suggested
an ingenious arrangement for the future. A lovely girl, spoken of as Maria, was known to both
the Stents and passionately admired by the sailor. She lived in a boarding-house, and Stent
proposed that Stephen should lodge in the same house, where he would be able both to see Anne
Stent and to plead his friend's cause with Maria. This judicious scheme led to difficulties.
When, after a time, Stephen began to speak to Maria on behalf of Stent, the lady at last hinted
that she had another attachment, and, on further pressure, it appeared that the object of the
attachment was Stephen himself. He was not insensible, as he then discovered, to Maria's charms.
'I have been told,' he says, 'that no man can love two women at once; but I am confident that
this is an error.'

The problem, however, remained as to the application of this principle to practice. The first
consequence was a breach with the old love. Miss Stent and her lover were parted. Maria, however,
was still under age, and Stephen was under the erroneous impression that a marriage with her
would be illegal without the consent of her guardians, which was out of the question. While
things were in this state, Thomas Stent came back from a cruise covered with glory. He hastened
at once from Portsmouth to his father, and persuaded the delighted old gentleman to restore
his daughter to her home and to receive James Stephen to the house as her acknowledged suitor.
He then sent news of his achievement to his friend; and an interview became necessary, to which
James Stephen repaired about as cheerfully, he says, as he would have gone to Tyburn tree.
He had to confess that he had broken off the engagement to his friend's sister because he had
transferred his affections to his friend's mistress. Stent must have been a magnanimous man.
He replied, after reflection, that the news would break his father's heart. The arrangement
he had made must be ostensibly carried out. Stephen must come to the elder Stent's house and
meet the daughter on apparently cordial terms. Young Stent's friendship was at an end; but
Stephen felt bound to adopt the prescribed plan.

Meanwhile Stephen's finances were at a low ebb. His uncle, Milner, had heard a false report,
that the nephew had misrepresented the amount of his father's debts. He declined to pay the
promised allowance, and Stephen felt the insult so bitterly that, after disproving the story,
he refused to take a penny from his uncle. He was once reduced to his last sixpence, and was
only kept afloat by accepting small loans, amounting to about 5l., from an old clerk of his
father's. At last, towards the end of 1780 a chance offered. The 'fighting parson,' Bate, afterwards
Sir Henry Bate Dudley, then a part proprietor of the 'Morning Post,' quarrelled with a fellow
proprietor, Joseph Richardson, put a bullet into his adversary's shoulder and set up a rival
paper, the 'Morning Herald.' A vacancy was thus created in the 'Morning Post,' and Richardson
gave the place to Stephen, with a salary of two guineas a week. Stephen had to report debates
on the old system, when paper and pen were still forbidden in the gallery. At the trial of
Lord George Gordon (February 5 and 6, 1781) he had to be in Westminster Hall at four in the
morning; and to stand wedged in the crowd till an early hour the next morning,[10] when the
verdict was delivered. He had then to write his report while the press was at work. The reporters
were employed at other times upon miscellaneous articles; and Stephen acquired some knowledge
of journalism and of the queer world in which journalists then lived. They were a rough set
of Bohemians, drinking, quarrelling, and duelling, and indulging in coarse amusements. Fortunately
Stephen's attendance upon the two ladies, for he still saw something of both, kept him from
joining in some of his fellows' amusements.

In 1781 there came a prospect of relief. The uncle in St. Christopher's died and left all his
property to his nephew William. William at once sent home supplies, which enabled his brother
James to give up reporting, to be called to the bar (January 26, 1782) and in the next year
to sail to St. Christopher's. His love affair had unravelled itself. He had been suspended
between the two ladies, and only able to decide that if either of them married he was bound
to marry the other. Miss Stent seems to have been the superior of Maria in intellect and accomplishments,
though inferior in beauty. She undoubtedly showed remarkable forbearance and good feeling.
Ultimately she married James Stephen before he sailed for the West Indies. Maria not long afterwards
married someone else, and, to the best of my belief, lived happily ever afterwards.

My grandfather's autobiography, written about forty years later, comes to an end at this point.
It is a curious document, full of the strong religious sentiment by which he came to be distinguished;
tracing the finger of Providence in all that happened to him, even in the good results brought
out of actions for which he expresses contrition; and yet with an obvious pleasure in recalling
the vivid impressions of his early and vigorous youth. I omit parts of what is at times a confession
of error. This much I think it only right to say. Although he was guilty of some lapses from
strict morality, for which he expresses sincere regret, it is also true that, in spite of his
surroundings and the temptations to which a very young man thrown upon the London world of
those days was exposed, he not only showed remarkable energy and independence and a strong
sense of honour, but was to all appearance entirely free from degrading vices. His mother's
influence seems to have impressed upon him a relatively high standard of morality, though he
was a man of impetuous and ardent character, turned loose in anything but a pure moral atmosphere.

James Stephen had at this time democratic tendencies. He had sympathised with the rebellious
colonists, and he had once covered himself with glory by a speech against slavery delivered
in Coachmakers' Hall in presence of Maria and Miss Stent. He had then got up the subject for
the occasion. He was now to make practical acquaintance with it. His ship touched at Barbadoes
in December 1783; and out of curiosity he attended a trial for murder. Four squalid negroes,
their hands tied by cords, were placed at the bar. A planter had been found dead with injuries
to his head. A negro girl swore that she had seen them inflicted by the four prisoners. There
was no jury, and the witnesses were warned in 'the most alarming terms' to conceal nothing
that made against the accused. Stephen, disgusted by the whole scene, was glad to leave the
court. He learnt afterwards that the prisoners were convicted upon the unsupported evidence
of the girl. The owner of two of them afterwards proved an alibi conclusively, and they were
pardoned; but the other two, convicted on precisely the same evidence, were burnt alive.[11]
Stephen resolved never to have any connection with slavery. During his stay at St. Christopher's
he had free servants, or, if he hired slaves, obtained their manumission. No one who had served
him long remained in slavery, except one man, who was so good and faithful a servant that his
owner refused to take even the full value when offered by his employer.[12] Other facts strengthened
his hatred of the system. In 1786 he was engaged in prosecuting a planter for gross cruelty
to two little negroes of 6 and 7 years of age. After long proceedings, the planter was fined 40s.

A lawyer's practice at St. Christopher's was supposed to be profitable. The sugar colonies
were flourishing; and Nelson, then captain of the 'Boreas,' was giving proof of his character,
and making work for the lawyers by enforcing the provisions of the Navigation Act upon recalcitrant
American traders and their customers.

Stephen earned enough to be able to visit England in the winter of 1788-9. There he sought
the acquaintance of Wilberforce, who was beginning his crusade against the slave trade. Information
from a shrewd observer on the spot was, of course, of great value; and, although prudence forbade
a public advocacy of the cause, Stephen supplied Wilberforce with facts and continued to correspond
with him after returning to St. Christopher's. The outbreak of the great war brought business.
During 1793-4 the harbour of St. Christopher's was crowded with American prizes, and Stephen
was employed to defend most of them in the courts. His health suffered from the climate, and
he now saved enough to return to England at the end of 1794. He then obtained employment in
the Prize Appeal Court of the Privy Council, generally known as the 'Cockpit.' He divided the
leading business with Dallas until his appointment to a Mastership in Chancery in 1811.

Stephen was now able to avow his anti-slavery principles and soon became one of Wilberforce's
most trusted supporters. He was probably second only to Zachary Macaulay, who had also practical
experience of the system. Stephen's wife died soon after his return, and was buried at Stoke
Newington on December 10, 1796. He was thrown for a time into the deepest dejection. Wilberforce
forced himself upon his solitude, and with the consolations of so dear a friend his spirits
recovered their elasticity. Four years later the friendship was drawn still closer by Stephen's
marriage to the only surviving sister of Wilberforce, widow of the Rev. Dr. Clarke, of Hull.
She was a rather eccentric but very vigorous woman. She spent all her income, some 300l. or
400l. a year, on charity, reserving 10l. for her clothes. She was often to be seen parading
Clapham in rags and tatters. Thomas Gisborne, a light of the sect, once tore her skirt from
top to bottom at his house, Yoxall Lodge, saying 'Now, Mrs. Stephen, you must buy a new dress.'
She calmly stitched it together and appeared in it next day. She made her stepchildren read
Butler's 'Analogy' before they were seven.[13] But in spite of her oddities and severities,
she seems to have been both respected and beloved by her nearest relations.

The marriage probably marked Stephen's final adhesion to the Evangelical party. He maintained
till his death the closest and most affectionate alliance with his brother-in-law Wilberforce.
The nature of their relations may be inferred from Wilberforce's 'Life and Letters.' Wilberforce
owed much of his influence to the singular sweetness of his disposition and the urbanity of
his manners. His wide sympathies interested him in many causes, and even his antagonists were
not enemies. Stephen, on the other hand, as Mr. Henry Adams says, was a 'high-minded fanatic.'
To be interested in any but the great cause was to rouse his suspicions. 'If you,' he once
wrote to Wilberforce, 'were Wellington, and I were Masséna, I should beat you by distracting
your attention from the main point.' Any courtesies shown by Wilberforce to his opponents or
to his old friend Pitt seemed to his ardent coadjutor to be concessions to the evil principle.
The Continental war, he held, was a Divine punishment inflicted upon England for maintaining
the slave trade; and he expounded this doctrine in various pamphlets, the first of which, 'The
Crisis of the Sugar Colonies,' appeared in 1802.

Yet Stephen owes a small niche in history to another cause, upon which he bestowed no little
energy. His professional practice had made him familiar with the course of the neutral trade.
In October 1805, almost on the day of the battle of Trafalgar, he published a pamphlet called
'War in Disguise.' The point of this, put very briefly, was to denounce a practice by which
our operations against France and Spain were impeded. American ships, or ships protected by
a fraudulent use of the American flag, sailed from the hostile colonies, ostensibly for an
American port, and then made a nominally distinct but really continuous voyage to Europe. Thus
the mother countries were still able to draw supplies from the colonies. The remedy suggested
in Stephen's pamphlet was to revive the claims made by England in the Seven Years' War which
entitled us to suppress the trade altogether. The policy thus suggested was soon embodied in
various Orders in Council. The first was made on January 7, 1807, by the Whig Government before
they left office and a more stringent order followed in November. The last was drawn by Perceval,
the new Chancellor of the Exchequer. Perceval was a friend of Wilberforce and sympathised both
with his religious views and his hatred of the slave trade. He soon became intimate with Stephen,
to whose influence the Orders in Council were generally attributed. Brougham, the chief opponent
of the policy, calls 'War in Disguise' 'brilliant and captivating,' and says that its statement
of facts was undeniable. I cannot say that I have found it amusing, but it is written with
vigour and impressive earnestness. Brougham calls Stephen the 'father of the system'; and,
whether the system were right or wrong, it had undoubtedly a great influence upon the course
of events. I fear that my grandfather was thus partly responsible for the unfortunate war with
the United States; but he clearly meant well. In any case, it was natural that Perceval should
desire to make use of his supporter's talents. He found a seat in Parliament for his friend.
Stephen was elected member for Tralee on Feb. 25, 1808, and in the Parliament which met in
1812 was returned for East Grimstead.

Stephen thus entered Parliament as an advocate of the Government policy. His revolutionary
tendencies had long vanished. He delivered a speech upon the Orders in Council on May 6, 1809,
which was reprinted as a pamphlet.[14] He defended the same cause against the agitation led
by Brougham in 1812. A Committee of the whole House was granted, and Stephen was cross-examining
one of Brougham's witnesses (May 11, 1812), when a shot was heard in the lobby, and Perceval
was found to have been murdered by Bellingham. Stephen had just before been in Perceval's company,
and it was thought, probably enough, that he would have been an equally welcome victim to the
maniac. He was made ill by the shock, but visited the wretched criminal to pray for his salvation.

Stephen, according to Brougham, showed abilities in Parliament which might have given him a
leading position as a debater. His defective education, his want of tact, and his fiery temper,
prevented him from rising to a conspicuous position. His position as holding a Government seat
in order to advocate a particular measure, and the fact that politics in general were to him
subsidiary to the one great end of abolishing slavery, would also be against him. Two incidents
of his career are characteristic. The benchers of Lincoln's Inn had passed a resolution--'after
dinner' it was said by way of apology--that no one should be called to the bar who had written
for hire in a newspaper. A petition was presented to the House of Commons upon which Stephen
made an effective speech (March 23, 1810). He put the case of a young man struggling against
difficulties to obtain admission to a legal career and convicted of having supported himself
for a time by reporting. Then he informed the House that this was no imaginary picture, but
the case of 'the humble individual who now addresses you.' Immense applause followed; Croker
and Sheridan expressed equal enthusiasm for Stephen's manly avowal, and the benchers' representatives
hastened to promise that the obnoxious rule should be withdrawn. When the allied sovereigns
visited London in 1814 another characteristic incident occurred. They were to see all the sights:
the King of Prussia and Field-Marshal Blücher were to be edified by hearing a debate; and the
question arose how to make a debate conducted in so august a presence anything but a formality.
'Get Whitbread to speak,' suggested someone, 'and Stephen will be sure to fly at him.' The
plan succeeded admirably. Whitbread asked for information about the proposed marriage of the
Princess Charlotte to the Prince of Orange. Stephen instantly sprang up and rebuked the inquirer.
Whitbread complained of the epithet 'indecent' used by his opponent. The Speaker intervened
and had to explain that the epithet was applied to Mr. Whitbread's proposition and not to Mr.
Whitbread himself. Stephen, thus sanctioned, took care to repeat the phrase; plenty of fire
was introduced into the debate, and Field-Marshal Blücher had the pleasure of seeing a parliamentary
battle.[15]

Whitbread was obnoxious to Stephen as a radical and as an opponent of the Orders in Council.
Upon another question Stephen was still more sensitive. When the topic of slavery is introduced,
the reporters describe him as under obvious agitation, and even mark a sentence with inverted
commas to show that they are giving his actual words. The slave-trade had been abolished before
he entered Parliament; but Government was occasionally charged with slackness in adopting some
of the measures necessary to carry out the law, and their supporters were accused of preserving
'a guilty silence.' Such charges stung Stephen to the quick. 'I would rather,' he exclaimed
(June 15, 1810), 'be on friendly terms with a man who had strangled my infant son than support
an administration guilty of slackness in suppressing the slave trade.' 'If Lord Castlereagh
does not keep to his pledges,' he exclaimed (June 29, 1814, when Romilly spoke of the 'guilty
silence'), 'may my God not spare me, if I spare the noble lord and his colleagues!' The Government
declined to take up a measure for the registration of slaves which Stephen had prepared, and
which was thought to be necessary to prevent evasions of the law. Thereupon he resigned, in
spite of all entreaties, accepting the Chiltern Hundreds, April 14, 1815.

