The Adored. Lots o' toimes. I do like 'er singing. She mykes sech comical soigns--and then
the things she sez! But I've 'eard she's very common in her tork, and that--orf the styge.

The S.A. I shouldn't wonder. Some on 'em are that way. You can't 'ave everythink!

His Adored. No, it is a pity, though. 'Spose we go out, and pl'y Kiss in the Ring? [They do.

AMONG THE ETHNOLOGICAL MODELS.

Wife of British Workman (spelling out placard under Hottentot Group). "It is extremely probable
that this interesting race will be completely exterminated at no very distant period." Pore things!

British Workman (with philosophy). Well, I shan't go inter mournin' for 'em, SAIRER!

Lambeth Larrikin (in a pasteboard "pickelhaube," and a false nose, thoughtfully, to BATTERSEA
BILL, who is wearing an old grey chimney-pot hat, with the brim uppermost, and a tow wig, as
they contemplate a party of Botocudo natives). Rum the sights these 'ere savidges make o' theirselves,
ain't it, BILL?

Batt. Bill (more thoughtfully). Yer right--but I dessay if you and me 'ad been born among that
lot, we shouldn't care 'ow we looked!

Vauxhall Voilet (who has exchanged headgear with CHELSEA CHORLEY--with dismal results). They
are cures those blackies! Why, yer carn't 'ardly tell the men from the wimmin! I expect this
lot'll be 'aving a beanfeast. See, they're plyin' their myusic.

Chelsea Chorley. Good job we can't 'ear 'em. They say as niggers' music is somethink downright
horful. Give us "Hi-tiddly-hi" on that mouth-orgin o' yours, will yer?

    [VAUXHALL VOILET obliges on that instrument; everyone in
    the neighbourhood begins to jig mechanically; exeunt party,
    dancing.

A Pimply Youth. "Hopium-eater from Java." That's the stuff they gits as stoopid as biled howls
on--it's about time we went and did another beer. [They retire for that purpose.

DURING THE FIREWORKS.

Chorus of Spectators. There's another lot o' bloomin' rockets gowin orf! Oo-oo, 'ynt that lur-uvly?
What a lark if the sticks come down on somebody's 'ed! There, didyer see 'em bust? Puts me
in mind of a shower o' foiry smuts. Lor, so they do--what a fancy you do 'ave, &c., &c.

COMING HOME.

An Old Gentleman (who has come out with the object of observing Bank Holiday manners--which
he has done from a respectful distance--to his friend, as they settle down in an empty first-class
compartment). There, now we shall just get comfortably off before the crush begins. Now, to
me, y'know, this has been a most interesting and gratifying experience--wonderful spectacle,
all that immense crowd enjoying itself in its own way--boisterously, perhaps, but, on the whole,
with marvellous decorum! Really, very exhilarating to see--but you don't agree with me?

His Friend (reluctantly). Well, I must say it struck me as rather pathetic than--

The O.G. (testily). Pathetic, Sir--nonsense! I like to see people putting their heart into
it, whether it's play or work. Give me a crowd--

    [As if in answer to this prayer, there is a sudden irruption
    of typical Bank Holiday-makers into the compartment.

Man by the Window. Third-class as good as fust, these days! There's ole FRED! Wayo, FRED, tumble
in, ole son--room for one more standin'!

    ["OLE FRED" plays himself in with a triumphal blast on a tin
    trumpet, after which he playfully hammers the roof with his
    stick, as he leans against the door.

Ole Fred. Where's my blanky friend? I 'it 'im one on the jaw, and I ain't seen 'im since! (Sings,
sentimentally, at the top of a naturally powerful voice.) "Com-rides, Com-rides! Hever since
we was boys! Sharin' each other's sorrers. Sharin' each hother's--beer!"

    [A "paraprosdokian," which delights him to the point of
    repetition.

The O.G. Might I ask you to make a little less disturbance there Sir? [Whimpers from over-tired
children.

Ole Fred (roaring). "I'm jolly as a Sandboy, I'm 'appy as a king! No matter what I see or 'ear,
I larf at heverything! I'm the morril of my moth-ar, (to O.G.) the himage of your Par! And
heverythink I see or 'ear, it makes me larf 'Ar-har!'"

    [He laughs "Ar-har," after which he gives a piercing
    blast upon the trumpet, with stick obbligato on the roof.

The O.G. (roused). I really must beg you not to be such an infernal nuisance! There are women
and children here who--

Old Fred. Shet up, ole umbereller whiskers! (Screams of laughter from women and children, which
encourage him to sing again.) "An' the roof is copper-bottomed, but the chimlies are of gold.
In my double-breasted mansion in the Strand!" (To people on platform, as train stops.) Come
in, oh, lor, do! "Oi-tiddly-oi-toi! hoi-toi-oy!"

    [The rest take up the refrain--"'Ave a drink an' wet your
    eye," &c., and beat time with their boots.

The O.G.. If this abominable noise goes on, I shall call the guard--disgraceful, coming in
drunk like this!

The Man by the Window. 'Ere, dry up, Guv'nor--'e ain't 'ad enough to 'urt 'im, 'e ain't!

Chorus of Females (to O.G.). An' Bank 'Oliday, too--you orter to be ashimed o' yerself, you
ought! 'E's as right as right, if you on'y let him alone!

Old Fred (to O.G.). Ga-arn, yer pore-'arted ole choiner boy! (Says, dismally), "Ow! for the
vanished Spring-time! Ow! for the dyes gorn boy! Ow! for the"--(changing the melody)--"'omeless,
I wander in lonely distress. No one ter pity me--none ter caress!" (Here he sheds tears, overcome
by his own pathos, but presently cheers up.) "I dornce all noight! An' I rowl 'ome toight!
I'm a rare-un at a rollick, or I'm ready fur a foight." Any man 'ere wanter foight me? Don't
say no, ole Frecklefoot! (To the O.G., who perspires freely.) Oh, I am enj'yin' myself! [He
keeps up this agreeable rattle, without intermission, for the remainder of the journey, which--as
the train stops everywhere, and takes quite three-quarters of an hour in getting from Queen's
Road, Battersea, to Victoria--affords a signal proof of his social resources, though it somewhat
modifies the O.G.'s enthusiasm for the artless gaiety of a Bank Holiday.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"ON THE SQUARE."

  "A CHEQUE-MATE's a husband who's found a good catch,"
    So lisp rosy lips that romance little reck.
  Yes, and many a close "matrimonial" match
    Is won by "perpetual cheque."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN 'UMBLE CORRECTION.

In "The New Yachting," a discursive paper, pleasantly written by Sir MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
in The Fortnightly for this month, the author quotes a verse from the old song of "Jim Collins,"
or, as he writes it, "John Collins" (by way of proving that the drink known by that name was
originated by this individual) but quotes it, to the best of our knowledge and belief, inaccurately.
It was set to the air of "Jenny Jones," and thus it ran:--

  "My name is JIM COLLINS,
    'Ead-vaiter at Limmers',
  The corner of Conduck Street,
    'Anover Square.

  "And my hokkipashun
    Is sarvin' out liquors
  To such sportin' covies
    As chance to come there."

This, we venture to assert, savours more of the old bar and the ancient sanded floors, more
of the by-gone Cider Cellars and extinct Vauxhall Gardens, more of the early mornings and late
nights, more of the rough-and-ready "P.R." times, than the veneered version for the drawing-room
given us by Sir M.M., M.D. We may be wrong, but--we don't think we are.

       *       *       *       *       *

AFTER LUNCH.

A FANCY SKETCH, COPIED FROM COBB.

    ["There are numerous instances of Members of the legal
    profession having acquired habits of intemperance in
    consequence of the facilities for procuring alcoholic drinks
    in the building, and the difficulty of obtaining tea and
    coffee."--Cobb, on the Refreshment Bars of the Law Courts.]

    SCENE--Apartment in the Chancery Division. Time, 2·15 P.M.
    Judge, Bar, Solicitors, and Public discovered in a state
    more easily imagined (by Mr. COBB) than described.

Judge (thickly). What want t'know--what-do-next? (Smiles.) Very hot! Very hot indeed! [Frowns.

First Q.C. (rising unsteadily). P'raps m'Lord let m'explain! Case of Brown-versus-Smith, should
say--course--Smith-versus-Brown. (Smiles.) Absurd! Can't-say-more! [Sits down abruptly.

Judge (angrily). Very irregular this! Commit--contempt--Court!

Second Q.C. (leaning luxuriously on desk). P'raps m'Lord let me explain. Learned friend--drunk!
[Disappears under his seat.

Judge (angrily, to Second Q.C.) So you! so everybody! (With maudlin tenderness.) Must respect
Court! (Savagely.) You are all disgusting--disgustingly--'tosticated! Adjourn--morrow mornin'.
Usher, brandy sodah! [Scene closes in--fortunately! Public business interrupted, and private
Member suspended. The victim is ATKINSON, Member for Boston; been on the rampage all last week;
a terror to the Clerks' table; haunting the SPEAKER's Chair, and making the Sergeant-at-Arms's
flesh creep. Decidedly inconvenient to have a gentleman with pale salmon neck-tie and white
waistcoat, suddenly popping his head round SPEAKER's Chair, and crying, "Ah, ah!" "No, you
don't!" "Would you, then?" and other discursive remarks. Curious how ATKINSON, indulging in
these luxuries himself; hotly resents attempts by others to enjoy similar exotics of conversation.
Narrating his grievances just now, he dwelt with especial fervour on one of them. "One of the
Clerks," he told the House, "when I showed him a Motion, said, 'Oh! oh!' I said, 'Don't say
"Oh! oh!" to me.'"

"Why not?" asked HANKEY, with that direct, almost abrupt manner that becomes a Magistrate for
Surrey and Chairman of the Consolidated Bank. "Why not? Are you to have monopoly of this simple
interjection? Are you to appropriate all the O's in the alphabet? Is not a Clerk at the Table
a man and a brother, and why may he not, if the idea flashes across his active brain, say,
'Oh! oh!'?"

That rather floored ATKINSON; brought him (so to speak) to his senses. Told me afterwards he
had never looked on matters in that light. Great advantage having a man like HANKEY going round
prepared at moment's notice to take common-sense view of situation and depict it in terse language.
Sobering effect on ATKINSON only momentary. Whilst SPEAKER was narrating circumstances on which
he had based charge against him of frivolous and vexatious conduct, Member for Boston was bouncing
about on seat like parched pea, shouting out, "Oh! oh!" "Ah! ah!" "No you don't!" and offering
other pertinent but fragmentary remarks.

"Reminds me," said Member for SARK, "of the scene in the Varden household, when Miss Miggs
returns expecting to be re-instated in her old place of predominance, near the person of Dolly's
mother. You remember how, when she finds the game is up, she turns rusty, and betrays her mistress's
ability to 'faint away stone dead whenever she had the inclinations so to do?' 'Of course,'
Miss Miggs continues, 'I never see sich cases with my own eyes. Ho, no! He, he, he! Nor master
neither! Ho, no! He, he, he!'"

