There is an element of real strength in the wild, stormy nature of these beautiful and impassioned
creatures: it is their misfortune not to know how to hide their weaknesses as well as their
more sophisticated sisters. The tide of time flows so smoothly with them, through such level
summer landscapes steeped in tropical repose, that the desire for excitement naturally arises,
and excitement itself becomes a necessity. Lacking many of the indoor employments of the women
of colder climates, time hangs heavy on their hands, idleness wearies, and they cast about
for a way in which to amuse, enjoy, and distract themselves. They find it in love. If no European
is near upon whom they can bestow their smiles and the lustre of their magnificent eyes, they
have to be content with their own countrymen, who woo them after the fashion of their Spanish
ancestors, by serenades at night, in which the strumming of guitars generally plays a more
important part than the words it accompanies.

While we are among the Peruvians, we must not entirely overlook their country, and the features
of its varied landscapes. It is divided by the Andes into three different lands, so to speak,
La Costa, the region between the coast and the Andes; La Sierra, the mountain region, and La
Montaña, or the wooded region east of the Andes. La Costa, in which Lima is situated, at the
distance of about six miles from the sea, may be briefly described as a sandy desert, interspersed
with fertile valleys, and watered by several rivers of no great magnitude. It seldom or never
rains there, but there are heavy dews at night which freshen and preserve the vegetation. The
magnificence of the mountain region baffles all attempts at word-painting, as it baffles the
art of the painter. Church, the artist, gives us what is, perhaps, the best representation
we are ever likely to have of it, but it is only a glimpse after all. Still more indescribable,
if that be possible, are the enormous wildernesses which stretch from the Andes to the vast
pampas to the eastward. "Here everything is on Nature's great scale. The whole country is one
continuous forest, which, beginning at very different heights, presents an undulating aspect.
One moves on his way with trees before, above, and beneath him, in a deep abyss like the ocean.
And in these woods, as on the immensity of the waters, the mind is bewildered; whatever way
it directs the eye there it meets the majesty of the Infinite. The marvels of Nature are in
these regions so common that one becomes accustomed to behold, without emotion, trees whose
tops exceed the height of 100 varas (290 English feet), with a proportionate thickness, beyond
the belief of such as never saw them; and, supporting on their trunks a hundred different plants,
they, individually, present rather the appearance of a small plantation than one great tree.
It is only after you leave the woods, and ordinary objects of comparison present themselves
to the mind, that you can realize in thought the colossal stature of these samples of Montana
vegetation."

Peru is a fitting theatre for the great dramas which have been played upon its wild, mountainous
stage. The dark background of its past is haunted by the shadows of the unknown race who built
its ruined cities and temples. Then come the beneficent, heavenly Incas, and the mild, pastoral
people over whom they rule. Last, the cruel, treacherous Spaniard, slaughtering his friendly
hosts with one hand, while the other holds the Bible to their lips!

THE OLD MAID'S VILLAGE.

I had been passing the summer on the banks of the Hudson--in that charmed region which lies
about what was once the home of Diedrich Knickerbocker, with the enchanted ground of Sleepy
Hollow on the one hand, and the shrine of Sunnyside on the other. In many happy morning walks
and peaceful twilight rambles, I had made the acquaintance of every winding lane, every shaded
avenue, every bosky dell and sunny glade for miles around. I had wandered hither and thither,
through all the golden season, and fairly steeped my soul in the beauty, the languor, the poetry
of the "Irving country;" and now, filled, as it were, with rare wine, content and happy, I
was ready to return to the town, and take up the matter-of-fact habit of life again.

But even on the last day of my sojourn, when my trunks stood packed and corded, and the loins
of my spirit were girt for departure on the morrow; as I stood at my window somewhat pensively
contemplating, for the last time, the peculiarly delicious river-bit which it framed, the door
opened suddenly, and Nannette, my fidus Achates, and the companion of my summer, ran in.

"Do you know," she cried, "I have just learned that we were about to leave the place without
visiting one of its greatest curiosities? We have narrowly escaped going without having seen
the 'Old Maid's Village!'"

"The 'Old Maid's Village!'" I echoed, stupidly. "But what village is not the peculiar property
of the race?"

"Yes, I know; but this village is really built on an old maid's property, and by her own hands.
And there is the 'Cat's Monument,' too. Come! don't stop to talk about it, but let us go and
see it. It will be just the thing for a last evening; in memoriam, you know, and all that.
Get on your hat, and come, and we shall see the sunset meeting the moonrise on the river once
more, as we return."

That, at least, was always worth seeing, I reflected; and so, without more ado, I put on my
wraps as I was bid, and reported myself under marching orders.

How lovely, how indescribably lovely, the world was that September afternoon, as we strolled
along the shaded sidewalk where the maples were already laying a mosaic of gold and garnet,
and looked off toward the river and the hills beyond--the far blue hills--all veiled in tenderest
amber mist! The very air was full of soft, warm color; the sunbeams, mild and level now, played
with the shadows across our path, and every now and then a leaf, flecked with orange or crimson,
fluttered to our feet. The blue-birds sang in the goldening boughs, unaffrighted by the constant
roll of elegant equipages in which, at this hour, the residents of the stately mansions on
either side the road were taking the air; and the crickets hopped about undisturbed in the
crevices of the gray stone walls.

We walked leisurely on, past one and another lofty gateway, until presently reaching an entrance
rather less assuming than its neighbors, but, like them, hospitably open, Nannette said, with
promptness:

"This is the place, I am sure. Square white house; black railing; next to the printing-press
man's great gate. Come right in; all are welcome, and not even thank you to pay, for one never
sees anyone to speak to here."

It seemed to my modesty rather an audacious proceeding, but trusting to my companion's superior
information, I followed her in, and we walked up a circular carriage-drive through smooth shaven
lawns dotted with brilliant clumps of salvia and gladiolus, towards the house--a square, solid
structure, white, and with broad verandas running across its front.

At its northern side, sloping towards the wall, was visible what looked like an ordinary terrace,
rather low, and ornamented with small shrubs and grotto-work; but which, on nearer approach,
proved to be a veritable village in miniature, constructed with a verisimilitude of design,
and a fidelity to detail, which was at once in the highest degree amazing and amusing. As Nannette
had been assured, no one appeared to interfere with us in any way, and full of a curious wonder
at such a manifestation of eccentric ingenuity, we seated ourselves upon a wooden box, evidently
kept more for the purpose of protecting the odd out-of-door plaything in bad weather, and proceeded
to give it the minute inspection which it merited; the result of which I chronicle here for
the benefit of the like curious minded.

The terrace, which forms the site of this doll-baby city, is low and semi-circular in shape,
and separated from the graveled drive by a close border of box. Within this protecting hedge
the ground is laid out in the most picturesque and fantastic manner compatible with a scale
of extreme minuteness. Winding roads, shady bye-paths ending in rustic stiles, willow-bordered
ponds, streams with fairy bridges, rocky ravines and sunny meadows, ferny dells, and steep
hills clambered over with a wilderness of tangled vines, and strewn with lichen-covered stones--all
are there, and all reproduced with the most conscientious fidelity to nature, and with Lilliputian
diminutiveness. Regular streets, "macadamized" with a gray cement which gives very much the
effect of asphaltum, separate one demesne from another; and each meadow, lawn, field, and barn-yard
has its own proper fence or wall, constructed in the most workmanlike manner. The streets are
bordered by trees, principally evergreens, which, though rigidly kept down to the height of
mere shrubs, appear stately by the side of the miniature mansions they overlook; and, in every
dooryard, or more pretentious greensward, tiny larches, pines yet in their babyhood, and dwarfed
cedars, cast a mimic shade, and bestow an air of dignity and venerableness to the place.

The first object upon which the eye is apt to rest on approaching this modern Lilliput is the
squire's house, the residence of the landed proprietor. This is a handsome edifice of some
eight by ten inches in breadth and height. It stands upon an eminence in the midst of ornamented
grounds, and with its white walls, its lofty cupola, and high, square portico, presents a properly
imposing appearance. There are signs of social life about the mansion befitting its own style
of conscious superiority. In the wide arched entrance hall stands a high-born dame attired
in gay Watteau costume--red-heeled slippers, brocaded petticoat, and bodice and train of puce-colored
satin. She is receiving the adieux of an elegant gentleman, hatted, booted, and spurred, who,
with whip in hand and dog by his side, is about to descend the steps and mount his horse for
a ride over his estate. A bird-cage swings by an open window, and, on the lawn, a group of
children, in charge of their nurse, are engaged in the time-honored game of "Ring-around-a-rosy."
Winding walks, bordered with shrubbery, disappear among fantastic mounds of rock-work, moss-grown
grottoes, and tiny dells of fern; and under a ruined arch, gray with lichen and green with
vines, flows a placid streamlet, spanned by a rustic bridge. In the meadow beyond, flocks of
sheep are cropping the grass, and an old negro is busily engaged in repairing a breach in the
stone wall.

Hard by this stately demesne is a humbler tenement, built of wattled logs, but showing signs
of comfort and thrift all about it. The old grandsire sits in a high-backed chair, sunning
himself in front of the door; on a bench, at the side of the house, stand rows of washtubs
filled with soiled linen, and a woman is busy wringing out clothes; while another, with a bucket
on her head, goes to the well to supply her with a fresh thimbleful of water; and still a third
milks a handsome dapple-gray cow in the yard where the dairy stands. There is a well-filled
barn behind, with another cow and a horse, too, for that matter, in the stable attached, and
the farmer, who is putting the last sheaf on his wheat-stack, looks contented enough with his lot.

Just beyond the stream, on whose bank the fisherman sits leisurely dropping his line, stands
the village church; a fac-simile of the old Dutch Church which has stood near the entrance
of Sleepy Hollow since long before the Revolution, and is hallowed now not only by the pious
associations of centuries, but by the near vicinage of Irving's grave. In its little twelve-inch
counterpart, every point of the ancient structure is preserved in exact detail. The dull red
walls, the beetling roof, the narrow pointed windows and low, arched door; the quaint Dutch
weathercock, and odd-shaped tower--aye, even the bell within, no bigger than a doll's thimble--and
upon all a sentimental traveler in the person of a china figure perhaps three inches in height,
is gazing half pensively, half curiously, as we suppose, at this relic of by-gone years!

On the other side of the stream the village school, likewise an ancient and steeple-crowned
edifice, stands out in the midst of a bare and clean swept playground. It bears its signature
upon its front:

"DISTRICT SCHOOL, NO. 2,"

and its worshipful character is otherwise indicated by the presence of the master, a venerable
looking puppet in cocked hat and knee-breeches, in the doorway, and sundry china children playing
rather stiffly about the stone steps.

Ascending by a steep, rocky path, one arrives at a rather pretentious looking wind-mill, which
spreads its wide white arms protectingly over the cottages below. Barrels of flour and sacks
of meal, well filled and plentiful in number, attest its thriving business, and the miller
himself, in a properly dusty coat, looks about him with contented air. At the foot of the hill
upon which the mill is perched, are several dwellings--all showing signs of more or less prosperous
life, with the exception of one, which affords the orthodox "haunted house" belonging to every
well-regulated village. The ruined walls of this old mansion, with lichen cropping out from
every crevice; the unhinged doors and broken windows; the ladder rotting as it leans against
the moss-grown roof, the broken well-sweep and deserted barn, offer an aspect of desolation
and decay which should prove sufficient bait to tempt any ghost of moderate demands.

In direct contrast to the gloom which surrounds this now empty and forsaken home, one observes,
in a shady grove surmounting a ridge of hills which rise somewhat steeply here from the roadway,
a party of "pic-nickers" gaily attired and disporting themselves after the time-honored manner
of such merry-makers; swinging, dancing, or, better still, strolling off arm in arm, in search
of cooler shades, and of that company which is never a crowd.

At the base of this rocky ridge, the same stream which one meets above flowing darkly under
arch and bridge, winds placidly along in sunshine and shadow until it loses itself in a clump
of alders and willows quite at the edge of the box-bordered terrace; and here the village ends.

Not so my sketch: for I have purposely left it to the last to make mention of the great central
idea round which all the rest is gathered, and which, doubtless, formed the germ of the whole
oddly-conceived, but most admirably-executed plan. This is the "Cat's Monument" of which Nannette
had made mention, and which is a structure so original and imposing that it deserves special
and minute description.

About midway the terrace, and conspicuous from its size and height, rises a mound of earth
shaped into the semblance of an urn or vase, crusted thickly with bits of rock, moss, and pebbles,
and overgrown with a tangle of tiny vines. Surmounting this picturesque pedestal is an obelisk
of black-veined marble on a granite base, the whole rising some seven feet from the ground.
On the polished surface of this memorial pillar is inscribed, in large black capitals, the
following classic and touching tribute to the venerable departed who sleeps in peace below:

    IN MEMORIAM
      TOMMY
  FELINI GENERIS
      OPTIMUS.
  DECESSIT A VITA
  MENSE NOVEMBRIS
  ANNO ÆTATIS 19.

       *       *       *       *       *

Quid me ploras? Nonne decessi gravis senectute? Nonne vivo amicorum ardentium memoria?

       *       *       *       *       *

On the reverse side of the column appears an inscription even more pathetic and poetic, to
yet another departed favorite, who seems, not like Tommy to have been gathered to his fathers
ripe in years and honors but to have been cut down in the bloom of youth by some untimely and
tragic fate. He is all the more felin'ly lamented:

      HIC JACET
        PUSSY
    SUI GENERIS
    PULCHERRIMUS.
    OCCISUS EST
    MENSE APRILIS
      ÆTAT. 9.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Vixi, et quum dederat cursum fortuna, peregi. Felix! heu nimium felix! si litora ista nunquam
tetigissem!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Thanks to certain by no means homoeopathic doses of the Latin grammar in my early years, I
was able to gather the meaning of these elegiac effusions, and when the last stanza embodying
poor Pussy's posthumous wail was discovered to be none other than the despairing death-cry
of the "infelix Dido" as immortalized by Virgil--the one step from the sublime to the ridiculous
seemed to have been passed.

I looked at Nannette, and Nannette looked at me, and we burst into silent but irrepressible
laughter. Nannette was the first to recover herself.

"We ought to be ashamed of ourselves," said she severely: "Honest grief is always respectable;
and a fitting tribute to departed worth, no more than what is due from the survivors. I have
no doubt but that Tommy and Pussy were most esteemed members of society, and that their loss
has left an aching void in the family of which they were the youngest and most petted darlings.
I have heard the history of this monument, and the village that has grown up around it, and
if you will comport yourself more as a Christian being should in the presence of a solemn memorial,
I will relate to you the interesting facts in my possession."

I immediately signified a due contrition and full purpose of amendment; when Nannette continued,
still speaking with the gravity befitting the subject.

"This estate then, this large and respectable mansion, and these pleasant grounds in which
we now sit, are the property in common of three most estimable ladies, all past their first
youth, and all possessed of sufficient good sense and strength of mind to remain their own
mistresses, which has procured for the very remarkable specimen of ingenuity now before us,
from some ignorant townspeople, the sobriquet of the 'Old Maid's Village.'

"There is only one of the ladies, however, I am informed, who interests herself in the construction
of these most ingenious toys. Possessed of ample means, and more than ample leisure, she amuses
herself in hours which might otherwise be devoted to gossip and tea, in putting together these
various models of buildings, all differing in style, and of most singular materials. The church,
for instance, is built of fragments of clinker, gathered from stove and grate, and held firmly
together by cement. Nothing could have reproduced so exactly the rough reddish stone of which
the old Sleepy Hollow Church is built. The window-glass is represented by carefully framed
pieces of tin foil; the gray stone of the gate-posts is imitated by sand rubbed on wooden pillars
with a coating of cement. The streets are paved in much the same clever fashion. The well,
the pond, the stream, are filled with water each day by the chatelaine's own careful hands.
Many of the mimic creatures, human and otherwise, are automata, manufactured to order; the
others are wooden or china figures selected with extreme care as to their fitness for their
purpose. So rare and so exceedingly pretty are some of these little figures, that they have
become objects of unlawful desire to certain soulless curiosity-mongers, who have rewarded
an open and confiding hospitality with base attempts at spoliation; and now a person is employed
to live in the cottage just beyond us, and do little else than take care of these unique possessions.

"No, you need not start. The woman is probably there at her post, and surveying our operations
from time to time. But we have behaved like decent people. We are taking away nothing but a
remembrance of a singularly interesting hour, and an admiring impression of the originality,
the ingenuity, the industry, and the independence of one of our own sex.

"Is it not so, my friend? And now, by the length of those cedar shadows, it is time for us
to rise up and be gone. Else the moonlight will have met and parted with the sunset ere we
reach home."

There was nothing to be said; the tale had been told, and with one last, lingering glance,
one parting smile, half amused, half touched, I rose, and together we walked home in somewhat
pensive mood. Was it not our last day in Fairyland?--Kate J. Hill.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINE AND KISSES.

TRANSLATED FROM THE PERSIAN OF MIRTSA SCHAFFY.

  The lover may be shy--
  His bashfulness goes by
        When first he kisses.

  The bibber, though so staid,
  Gets bravely unafraid
        When wine his bliss is.

  Yet he who, in his youth,
    No wine nor kiss hath tasted.
  Will some day think, in truth,
    That half his joys were wasted.

                        --Joel Benton.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have heard it asked why we speak of the dead with unqualified praise: of the living, always
with certain reservations. It may be answered, because we have nothing to fear from the former,
while the latter may stand in our way: so impure is our boasted solicitude for the memory of
the dead. If it were the sacred and earnest feeling we pretend, it would strengthen and animate
our intercourse with the living.--Goethe.

THE QUEEN'S CLOSET.

Did anybody ever see a fairy in the city? Was a glimpse ever caught of Fairyland there? I say
No. But I was in the country this summer where a great number of mushrooms grew, and one day
when I was walking in a grassy lane I met a little, old queen, who was fanning herself with
the leaf of the poor-man's-weather-glass; she had taken off her crown, and it was lying on
the top of a lovely red mushroom. I poked the mushroom with my parasol, and instantly felt
on my face a faint puff of air, and heard a hum no louder than the buzz of an angry fly.

I sat down on the grass, and then my eyes fell on the queen.

"You have let my crown fall in the dirt," she said, tossing a wisp of hair from her forehead;
"but you great, insensible beings are always in mischief when you are in the country. Why don't
you stay at home, in your brick cages that stand on heaps of flat stones? You are watched there
all the time by creatures with clubs in their leather belts, so you cannot tear and crush things
to pieces as you do here."

"Oh, I am so sorry, madam," I answered; "if you knew how unhappy I felt this morning when I
started on my last walk, you would pity me. I must go home at once, and my home is in the city--shut
in by houses before and behind it. If I look out of the window, I only see a strip of sky above
me, where neither sun nor moon passes on its journey round the world; and below me, only the
stone pavement over which goes an endless procession of men and women, upon a hundred errands
I never guess at."

The queen tapped her head with a white stick like a peeled twig, and made such a noise that
I examined it, and saw an ivory knob, which reminded me of the budding horns of a young deer.
As if in answer to my thought, she said:

"It drops off every year. In the fairy-nature all elements are united. We partake of the animal
and vegetable kingdoms, and add our own; this makes us what we are. We do not suffer, but we
experience, without suffering, of course; our long lives glide along like dreams. As you are
in sleep, so are we awake. If you love the country, which contains our kingdom, as the filbert-shell
contains the kernel, I will endow you with power. I will give you something to take back with you."

What do you think she gave me? A little closet with shelves; on each shelf were laid away all
my remembrances of the summer, for me to unfold at leisure. When she gave me the key, which
looked exactly like a steel pen, she said: "When you turn the key you will understand my power.
All things will be alive, will know as much, and talk as fast as you do. The closet, in short,
is but a wee corner of my kingdom, where to-day and to-morrow are the same--past and present
one. A maid-of-honor wishes to go to town. I'll send her in the closet. My slave, the geometrical
spider, must spin her a warm cobweb--and when you open the closet, be sure and not disturb
my little Fancie."

Some way Queen Imagin disappeared then. To any person less knowing than myself, it would have
seemed as if a dandelion ball was floating in the air; but I knew better, and I watched her
sailing, sailing away till lost behind the trees. The crown was gone, too; I discovered nothing
in the neighborhood of the red mushroom, except a tiny yellow blossom already wilted by the
heat of the sun.

Well, I am at home. I sit down this misty autumn morning in my lonely room, and wish for some
work or if not that, for something to play with. I am too old for dolls, but very young in
the way of amusement. Ah--the closet! I'll unlock that; the key is at hand--in my writing-desk.

Open Sesame! On the top shelf sits little Fancie, her eyes shining like diamonds in her soft,
dusky cobweb. She nods, so do I, and we are in Greenside again--on a summer evening. How the
crickets sing; and the tree-toads harp in the trees as if they were a picket guard entirely
surrounding us. Hueston's big dog barks in the lane at just the right distance. What security
I used to feel when I was a little child, tucked away in my bed, and heard a dog bark a mile
away; too far off ever to come up and bite, and yet near enough to frighten prowling robbers!

"When in the breeze the distant watch-dog bayed," I was about to say; but Polly, who is at
Greenside with me, calls, "Just hear the mosquitoes."

The blinds must be closed. What a delicious smell comes in! The dew wetting all the shrubs
and flowers distils sweet odors. What a family of moths have rushed in; this big, brown one,
with white and red markings, is very enterprising. He has voyaged twice down the lamp chimney,
as if it were the funnel of a steamship.

Get out, moth!

"Sho," she answers in a husky voice, as if very dry, "It is my nature to; that's all you know,
turning us to moral purposes, and making us a tiresome metaphor. We are much like you human
creatures--only we don't compare ourselves continually with others. We just scorch ourselves
as we please. My cousin, Noctilia Glow-worm, who is out late o' nights on the grass-bank in
poor company--the Katydids, who board for the season with the widow Poplar--a two-sided, deceitful
woman--she does not care where I go, and never shrieks out, 'A burnt moth dreads the lamp chimney.'
If she sees me wingless, she coughs, and throws out a green light, but says nothing. Don't
mind me; there's more coming."

It can't be moths making such a noise on the second shelf. It is Tom, who calls out to us,
from his room, to come, and help him catch a bat.

"Always mouthing something," somebody mutters. But we rush into Tom's room, and behold him
in the middle of the floor, flopping north and south, east and west, with a towel. No bat is
to be seen. I hear a pretty singing, however, and declare it to be from a young swallow fallen
down the chimney; but as there is no fire-place in the room, my opinion goes for nothing. Tom
maintains that it is a bat; that it flew in by the window; and that it is behind the bureau.
He is right, for the bat whirrs up to the ceiling and from that height accosts us in a squeaking
voice:

"I am weak-eyed, am I? and my wings are leathery? Catch me, and you will find my wings are
like down, my eyes as bright as diamonds. How much you know, writing yourselves down in books
as Naturalists! My name is Vespertila; my family are from Servia, at your service. Could you
offer me a fly, or a beetle? I was chasing Judge Blue Bottle, or I should not have been trapped.
Go to sleep, dears, and leave me to fan you. When you are asleep, I'll bite a hole in your
ear, and sup bountifully on your red blood."

Flop went our towels, and down went Miss Vespertila behind the bed crying. Polly crept up to
her; and caught her in a towel. What black beads of eyes had Miss Vespertila from Servia, where
her grandfather, General Vampire, still commands a brigade of rascals! Her teeth were sharp,
and white as pearls. Polly held her up, and she cunningly combed her furry wings with her hind
feet, and said:

"Polly, dear, I itch dreadfully; do you mind plain speaking? I am full of bat lice. Ariel caught
them, and the folks say that Queen Mab often buys fine combs--"

"Slanderer!" cried Polly, "fly to your witch home!"

She shook the towel out of the window, and the bat soared away.

"What's coming next?" we all asked. "There are the rabbits to hear from, the pigeons, the sparrows,
the mole, and the striped snake who lives by the garden gate?"

Slap, Bang! Fancie has pulled the door to. The cunning Queen Imagin placed her in the closet,
perhaps for this purpose. But I have the key. I shall unlock it to-morrow, for I must have
the picnic over again, under the beech tree, where the brown thrush built her nest, and reared
her young ones, who ate our crumbs, and chirped merrily when we laughed.--Lolly Dinks's Mother.

LITERATURE.

"Of the making of many books there is no end," said the Wise Man of old. Of the making of good
books there is frequently an end, say we. The good books of one year may be counted on the
fingers of one hand. Among those of the present year none ranks higher than Taine's "Art in
Greece," a translation of which, by Mr. John Durand, is published by Messrs. Holt & Williams.
The French are a nation of critics, and Taine is the critic of the French. This could not have
been said with truth during the lifetime of Sainte-Beuve, but since his death it is true. There
is nothing, apparently, which Taine is not competent to criticise, so subtle is his intellect,
and so wide the range of his studies, but what he is most competent to criticise is Art. We
have heard great things of a History of English Literature by him, but as it has not yet appeared
in an English dress (although Messrs. Holt & Williams have a translation of it in press) we
shall reserve our decision until it appears. Art, it seems to us, is the specialty to which
Taine has devoted himself, with the enthusiasm peculiar to his countrymen, and a thoroughness
peculiar to himself. Others may have accumulated greater stores of art-knowledge--the knowledge
indispensable to the historian of Art, and the biographer of artists--but none has so saturated
himself with the spirit of Art as Taine. We may not always agree with him, but he is always
worth listening to, and what he says is worthy of our serious consideration. We think he is
too philosophical sometimes, but then the fault may be in us. It may be that we are so accustomed
to the materialism of the English critics that we fail, at first, to apprehend the spirituality
of this most refined and refining of Frenchmen. No English critic could have written his "Art
in Greece," because no English critic could put himself in his place. We know what the English
think of Greek Art, or may, with a little reading: what Taine thinks of it is--that it is what
it is, simply because the Greeks were what they were. Before he tells us what Greek Art is,
he tells us what the Greeks were. Nor does he stop here, but goes on to tell us, or rather
begins by telling us, what kind of a country it was in which they dwelt, what skies shone over
them, what mountains looked down upon them, in the shadow of what trees they walked within
sight of the wine-dark sea. He begins at the beginning, as the children say. Whether he succeeds
in convincing us that it was Greece alone which made the Greeks what they were, depends somewhat
upon the cast of our minds, and somewhat upon our power to resist his eloquence. We think,
ourselves, that he lays too much stress upon the mere outward environment of the Grecian people.
The influence exercised over their lives, by the Institutions which grew up out of these lives--the
influence, in short, of their purely physical culture--is admirably described, as is also the
difference between this culture and ours:

