Another boy is a born mechanic; he understands machinery at a glance; he is all the while pondering
and studying and experimenting. But his wheels and his axles and his pulleys are all swept
away, as so much irrelevant lumber; he is doomed to go into the Latin School, and spend three
or four years in trying to learn what he never can learn well,--disheartened by always being
at the tail of his class, and seeing many a boy inferior to himself in general culture who
is rising to brilliant distinction simply because he can remember those hopeless, bewildering
Greek quantities and accents which he is constantly forgetting,--as, for example, how properispomena
become paroxytones when the ultimate becomes long, and proparoxytones become paroxytones when
the ultimate becomes long, while paroxytones with a short penult remain paroxytones. Each of
this class of rules, however, having about sixteen exceptions, which hold good except in three
or four other exceptional cases under them, the labyrinth becomes delightfully wilder and wilder;
and the crowning beauty of the whole is, that, when the bewildered boy has swallowed the whole,--tail,
scales, fins, and bones,--he then is allowed to read the classics in peace, without the slightest
occasion to refer to them again during his college course.

The great trouble with the so-called classical course of education is, that it is made strictly
for but one class of minds, which it drills in respects for which they have by nature an aptitude,
and to which it presents scarcely enough of difficulty to make it a mental discipline, while
to another and equally valuable class of minds it presents difficulties so great as actually
to crush and discourage. There are, we will venture to say, in every ten boys in Boston four,
and those not the dullest or poorest in quality, who could never go through the discipline
of the Boston Latin School without such a strain on the brain and nervous system as would leave
them no power for anything else.

A bright, intelligent boy, whose talents lay in the line of natural philosophy and mechanics,
passed with brilliant success through the Boston English High School. He won the first medals,
and felt all that pride and enthusiasm which belong to a successful student. He entered the
Latin Classical School. With a large philosophic and reasoning brain, he had a very poor verbal
and textual memory; and here he began to see himself distanced by boys who had hitherto looked
up to him. They could rattle off catalogues of names; they could do so all the better from
the habit of not thinking of what they studied. They could commit the Latin Grammar, coarse
print and fine, and run through the interminable mazes of Greek accents and Greek inflections.
This boy of large mind and brain, always behindhand, always incapable, utterly discouraged,
no amount of study could place on an equality with his former inferiors. His health failed,
and he dropped from school. Many a fine fellow has been lost to himself, and lost to an educated
life, by just such a failure. The collegiate system is like a great coal-screen: every piece
not of a certain size must fall through. This may do well enough for screening coal; but what
if it were used indiscriminately for a mixture of coal and diamonds?

"Poor boy!" said Ole Bull, compassionately, when one sought to push a schoolboy from the steps
of an omnibus, where he was getting a surreptitious ride. "Poor boy! let him stay. Who knows
his trials? Perhaps he studies Latin."

The witty Heinrich Heine says, in bitter remembrance of his early sufferings,--"The Romans
would never have conquered the world, if they had had to learn their own language. They had
leisure, because they were born with the knowledge of what nouns form their accusatives in im."

Now we are not among those who decry the Greek and Latin classics. We think it a glorious privilege
to read both those grand old tongues, and that an intelligent, cultivated man who is shut out
from the converse of the splendid minds of those olden times loses a part of his birthright;
and therefore it is that we mourn that but one dry, hard, technical path, one sharp, straight,
narrow way, is allowed into so goodly a land of knowledge. We think there is no need that the
study of Greek and Latin should be made such a horror. There is many a man without a verbal
memory, who could neither recite in order the paradigms of the Greek verbs, nor repeat the
lists of nouns that form their accusative in one termination or another, who, nevertheless,
by the exercise of his faculties of comparison and reasoning, could learn to read the Greek
and Latin classics so as to take their sense and enjoy their spirit; and that is all that they
are worth caring for. We have known one young scholar, who could not by any possibility repeat
the lists of exceptions to the rules in the Latin Grammar, who yet delightedly filled his private
note-book with quotations from the "Æneid," and was making extracts of literary gems from his
Greek Reader, at the same time that he was every day "screwed" by his tutor upon some technical
point of the language.

Is there not many a master of English, many a writer and orator, who could not repeat from
memory the list of nouns ending in y that form their plural in ies, with the exceptions under
it? How many of us could do this? Would it help a good writer and fluent speaker to know the
whole of Murray's Grammar by heart, or does real knowledge of a language ever come in this way?

At present the rich stores of ancient literature are kept like the savory stew which poor Dominie
Sampson heard simmering in the witch's kettle. One may have much appetite, but there is but
one way of getting it. The Meg Merrilies of our educational system, with her harsh voice, and
her "Gape, sinner, and swallow," is the only introduction,--and so, many a one turns and runs
frightened from the feast.

This intolerant mode of teaching the classical languages is peculiar to them alone. Multitudes
of girls and boys are learning to read and to speak German, French, and Italian, and to feel
all the delights of expatiating in the literature of a new language, purely because of a simpler,
more natural, less pedantic mode of teaching these languages.

Intolerance in the established system of education works misery in families, because family
pride decrees that every boy of good status in society, will he, nill he, shall go through
college, or he almost forfeits his position as a gentleman.

"Not go to Cambridge!" says Scholasticus to his first-born. "Why, I went there,--and my father,
and his father, and his father before him. Look at the Cambridge Catalogue and you will see
the names of our family ever since the College was founded!"

"But I can't learn Latin and Greek," says young Scholasticus. "I can't remember all those rules
and exceptions. I've tried, and I can't. If you could only know how my head feels when I try!
And I won't be at the foot of the class all the time, if I have to get my living by digging."

Suppose, now, the boy is pushed on at the point of the bayonet to a kind of knowledge in which
he has no interest, communicated in a way that requires faculties which Nature has not given
him,--what occurs?

He goes through his course, either shamming, shirking, parrying, all the while consciously
discredited and dishonored,--or else putting forth an effort that is a draft on all his nervous
energy, he makes merely a decent scholar, and loses his health for life.

