Having read thus far, you will very likely tap the floor impatiently with your foot, and say--if
you have not said it already--"Well, but what is the fellow about himself?" Patience, gentle
Christopher. I will tell you now. Upon my arrival with a pocket, as you are aware, not very
inconveniently laden, I kept of course "my eye ahead" for any thing suitable in the farming
way; sheep-stock or cattle. But it would not do. Capital was required to get a sheep-station,
and employment as an overseer, in consequence of the depression that existed in the markets
for all kinds of stock, altogether hopeless. No man is idle here longer than he can help it,
unless he have the wherewithal to look to; and there are fifty modes of gaining bread here,
if a man will turn to them? What could a briefless barrister do better than throw himself upon
the law? I smelled out the attorneys to begin with. The first with whom I came in contact was
one Mr ----, from a northern county in England. He had been here only three years, and was
already rattling about in his carriage. He arrived without a shoe to his foot, or a sixpence
in his pocket. Another was my old and respected friend Mr ----, writer to the signet, of Edinburgh,
who had been here about eighteen months, was living like a gentleman, and on the point of entering
a fine new dwelling-house, which he had himself erected out of his own honourable gains. Upon
him I waited, and from his kindness I obtained all the information I stood in need of; and
not only this, but immediate profitable employment in his office, which, with his leave, I
hold until something offers--whether I shall claim admission as attorney, solicitor, and proctor,
as some have done before me, or resort to my old calling of advocate, is as yet an undecided
question. I am now in the receipt of more than is necessary for subsistence, and I shall look
before I leap. The rents of houses are extravagantly high. The poorest tradesmen pay fifteen
shillings a-week for his small house--and he must pay it weekly; the better class of tradesmen
pay twenty and twenty-five shillings, and the higher class from two to four pounds a-week;
for a petty dwelling containing only three rooms and a kitchen. A small brick cottage held
by a friend of mine, and consisting of sitting-room, bed-room, servant's room, and kitchen,
is considered a great bargain at a hundred pounds per annum. The hours of business are limited
with strictness to seven--videlicit, from nine in the morning until four P.M. You are your
own master after four o'clock, and need fear no business-calls or interruptions. Whilst business,
however, is going on, the excitement and bustle compel me to regard Cheapside on a Saturday
afternoon, as a place of great quietness and an agreeable promenade. Fellows are riding as
hard as they can tear from one end of the town to the other--cattle are driving to and fro--bullock-drays
are crowding from the interior with wood--auctions are eternally at work--settlers are coming
from their stations, or getting their provisions in. Tradesmen and mercantile men are hurry-skurrying
with their orders. A vast amount of work is done up to four o'clock, and afterwards all is
silence, and the place looks unlike nothing so much as itself; and yet, notwithstanding all
this bustle, money is altogether out of the question. From what exact cause or series of causes,
I cannot tell you now--but the fact is certain that the mercantile community here is nearly
bankrupt. There is a glut of goods, a superabundance of every thing in the market. It has been
wrongfully supposed in England that every thing would sell here, and the consequence has been
that an overflow of every kind of commodity has poured in upon us. The supply has doubled and
trebled the demand. Upon the first establishment of these settlements the wants of the people
were of course many, and their prices for stock were so good, and their speculations in land
so profitable and bright, that they could afford the indulgence of a luxury, no matter what
price was asked to purchase it. It is very different now. The staple commodity of this colony
is wool. Well, so long as all the stations or sheep-runs continued unoccupied, and new settlers
arrived, the price of sheep kept naturally very high; but every station that can command a
due supply of water, is now in occupation, and consequently the demand for stock has ceased.
Sheep, which three years ago sold for twenty-five and eighteen shillings, command now, for
first quality, eight shillings and sixpence only; ordinary quality, six shillings; and middling
as low as five shillings. For cash sale by sheriff-warrant, I have seen beautiful ewes, free
from all disease--2000 of them--sold for two and sixpence each! Cattle three years ago sold
for ten, twelve, and sometimes fifteen pounds per head. At this moment they are so plentiful
that I could purchase a drove of fat cattle, two to three hundred head--and some of them weighing
eighty stone--for eight pounds a beast, and that on credit too by approved bill at four months'
date. Such are a few of the reasons why a damper has come over the Port Philip market, reducing
amongst other things the price of wages by nearly a third. Emigrants continue to pour in, and
they stare and are grievously disappointed at the rate of wages, so very different to that
which they expected. Twelve months since, a single labouring man got forty pounds per annum,
with weekly rations of provisions; now with his rations, he receives only twenty-five, or at
most thirty pounds per annum. Married men with young families will not be hired at any rate,
for they are only burdens on a station. A good thorough-bred shepherd maintains his price.
He is still in great demand, and may command from sixty to seventy pounds per annum, with rations,
cow's milk, free hut, and a portion of produce of stock in addition to all, if he chooses to
put his wages to that mode of profit. Women servants were formerly much wanted. They are now
at a discount. The filthy drabs ejected from Ireland are scarcely worth their meat. I am proud
to say it, and you should be proud to hear it, gentle Christopher, that a Scotch servant, male
or female, is forty per cent above every other in value in this colony. Scotch servants get
ahead in spite of every thing. The Scotch tradesmen have almost all of them made money; some
abundantly. I have met many here from the North who brought nothing but their energy, moderation,
and unconquerable perseverance with them, and they are affluent, and are becoming daily more
so. Donald ----, who was a servant lad at home, and is now a respected and respectable man
in Melbourne, is independent. He went first to Van Diemen's Land, and came here some three
years ago. "And had you arrived," he said to me the other day, "at the same time, you might
now have been moving home a prosperous gentleman." However, nil desperandum. There is still
a fair opportunity for an industrious man, who above all things has resolution to be SOBER
in his habits. The mischief with the labouring man has been, that having suddenly discovered
his wages to be high in comparison with those he received in the mother country, he has considered
himself entitled to have a proportionate extra amount of enjoyment at the public-house, where
drink is very high. Good tradesmen would infallibly make money, but for this great failing.
The bullock dray-drivers, certainly the best paid of all the working men, absolutely think
nothing of coming from the Bush into Melbourne, with twenty or thirty pounds in their pocket,
and spending every farthing of the sum--in one night--champagne to the mast-head. The innkeepers
make fortunes rapidly.