To begin the spectacle, they were waiting now only for Cæsar, who, unwilling to expose the
people to over-long waiting, and wishing to win them by promptness, came soon, in company with
the Augusta and Augustians.

Petronius arrived among the Augustians, having Vinicius in his litter. The latter knew that
Lygia was sick and unconscious; but as access to the prison had been forbidden most strictly
during the preceding days, and as the former guards had been replaced by new ones who were
not permitted to speak with the jailers or even to communicate the least information to those
who came to inquire about prisoners, he was not even sure that she was not among the victims
intended for the first day of spectacles. They might send out even a sick woman for the lions,
though she were unconscious. But since the victims were to be sewed up in skins of wild beasts
and sent to the arena in crowds, no spectator could be certain that one more or less might
not be among them, and no man could recognize any one. The jailers and all the servants of
the amphitheatre had been bribed, and a bargain made with the beast-keepers to hide Lygia in
some dark corner, and give her at night into the hands of a confidant of Vinicius, who would
take her at once to the Alban Hills. Petronius, admitted to the secret, advised Vinicius to
go with him openly to the amphitheatre, and after he had entered to disappear in the throng
and hurry to the vaults, where, to avoid possible mistake, he was to point out Lygia to the
guards personally.

The guards admitted him through a small door by which they came out themselves. One of these,
named Cyrus, led him at once to the Christians. On the way he said,--

"I know not, lord, that thou wilt find what thou art seeking. We inquired for a maiden named
Lygia, but no one gave us answer; it may be, though, that they do not trust us."

"Are there many?" asked Vinicius.

"Many, lord, had to wait till to-morrow."

"Are there sick ones among them?"

"There were none who could not stand."

Cyrus opened a door and entered as it were an enormous chamber, but low and dark, for the light
came in only through grated openings which separated it from the arena. At first Vinicius could
see nothing; he heard only the murmur of voices in the room, and the shouts of people in the
amphitheatre. But after a time, when his eyes had grown used to the gloom, he saw crowds of
strange beings, resembling wolves and bears. Those were Christians sewed up in skins of beasts.
Some of them were standing; others were kneeling in prayer. Here and there one might divine
by the long hair flowing over the skin that the victim was a woman. Women, looking like wolves,
carried in their arms children sewed up in equally shaggy coverings. But from beneath the skins
appeared bright faces and eyes which in the darkness gleamed with delight and feverishness.
It was evident that the greater number of those people were mastered by one thought, exclusive
and beyond the earth,--a thought which during life made them indifferent to everything which
happened around them and which could meet them. Some, when asked by Vinicius about Lygia, looked
at him with eyes as if roused from sleep, without answering his questions; others smiled at
him, placing a finger on their lips or pointing to the iron grating through which bright streaks
of light entered. But here and there children were crying, frightened by the roaring of beasts,
the howling of dogs, the uproar of people, and the forms of their own parents who looked like
wild beasts. Vinicius as he walked by the side of Cyrus looked into faces, searched, inquired,
at times stumbled against bodies of people who had fainted from the crowd, the stifling air,
the heat, and pushed farther into the dark depth of the room, which seemed to be as spacious
as a whole amphitheatre.

But he stopped on a sudden, for he seemed to hear near the grating a voice known to him. He
listened for a while, turned, and, pushing through the crowd, went near. Light fell on the
face of the speaker, and Vinicius recognized under the skin of a wolf the emaciated and implacable
countenance of Crispus.

"Mourn for your sins!" exclaimed Crispus, "for the moment is near. But whoso thinks by death
itself to redeem his sins commits a fresh sin, and will be hurled into endless fire. With every
sin committed in life ye have renewed the Lord's suffering; how dare ye think that that life
which awaits you will redeem this one? To-day the just and the sinner will die the same death;
but the Lord will find His own. Woe to you, the claws of the lions will rend your bodies; but
not your sins, nor your reckoning with God. The Lord showed mercy sufficient when He let Himself
be nailed to the cross; but thenceforth He will be only the judge, who will leave no fault
unpunished. Whoso among you has thought to extinguish his sins by suffering, has blasphemed
against God's justice, and will sink all the deeper. Mercy is at an end, and the hour of God's
wrath has come. Soon ye will stand before the awful Judge in whose presence the good will hardly
be justified. Bewail your sins, for the jaws of hell are open; woe to you, husbands and wives;
woe to you, parents and children."

And stretching forth his bony hands, he shook them above the bent heads; he was unterrified
and implacable even in the presence of death, to which in a while all those doomed people were
to go. After his words, were heard voices: "We bewail our sins!" Then came silence, and only
the cry of children was audible, and the beating of hands against breasts.

The blood of Vinicius stiffened in his veins. He, who had placed all his hope in the mercy
of Christ, heard now that the day of wrath had come, and that even death in the arena would
not obtain mercy. Through his head shot, it is true, the thought, clear and swift as lightning,
that Peter would have spoken otherwise to those about to die. Still those terrible words of
Crispus filled with fanaticism that dark chamber with its grating, beyond which was the field
of torture. The nearness of that torture, and the throng of victims arrayed for death already,
filled his soul with fear and terror. All this seemed to him dreadful, and a hundred times
more ghastly than the bloodiest battle in which he had ever taken part. The odor and heat began
to stifle him; cold sweat came out on his forehead. He was seized by fear that he would faint
like those against whose bodies he had stumbled while searching in the depth of the apartment;
so when he remembered that they might open the grating any moment, he began to call Lygia and
Ursus aloud, in the hope that, if not they, some one knowing them would answer.

In fact, some man, clothed as a bear, pulled his toga, and said,--

"Lord, they remained in prison. I was the last one brought out; I saw her sick on the couch."

"Who art thou?" inquired Vinicius.

"The quarryman in whose hut the Apostle baptized thee, lord. They imprisoned me three days
ago, and to-day I die."

Vinicius was relieved. When entering, he had wished to find Lygia; now he was ready to thank
Christ that she was not there, and to see in that a sign of mercy. Meanwhile the quarryman
pulled his toga again, and said,--

"Dost remember, lord, that I conducted thee to the vineyard of Cornelius, when the Apostle
discoursed in the shed?"

"I remember."

"I saw him later, the day before they imprisoned me, He blessed me, and said that he would
come to the amphitheatre to bless the perishing. If I could look at him in the moment of death
and see the sign of the cross, it would be easier for me to die. If thou know where he is,
lord, inform me."

Vinicius lowered his voice, and said,--

"He is among the people of Petronius, disguised as a slave. I know not where they chose their
places, but I will return to the Circus and see. Look thou at me when ye enter the arena. I
will rise and turn my face toward them; then thou wilt find him with thy eyes."

"Thanks to thee, lord, and peace be with thee."

"May the Redeemer be merciful to thee."

"Amen."

Vinicius went out of the cuniculum, and betook himself to the amphitheatre, where he had a
place near Petronius among the other Augustians.

"Is she there?" inquired Petronius.

"No; she remained in prison."

"Hear what has occurred to me, but while listening look at Nigidia for example, so that we
may seem to talk of her hair-dressing. Tigellinus and Chilo are looking at us now. Listen then.
Let them put Lygia in a coffin at night and carry her out of the prison as a corpse; thou divinest
the rest?"

"Yes," answered Vinicius.

Their further conversation was interrupted by Tullius Senecio, who, bending toward them, asked,--

"Do ye know whether they will give weapons to the Christians?"

"We do not," answered Petronius. "I should prefer that arms were given," said Tullius; "if
not, the arena will become like butcher's shambles too early. But what a splendid amphitheatre!"

The sight was, in truth, magnificent. The lower seats, crowded with togas were as white as
snow. In the gilded podium sat Cæsar, wearing a diamond collar and a golden crown on his head;
next to him sat the beautiful and gloomy Augusta, and on both sides were vestal virgins, great
officials, senators with embroidered togas, officers of the army with glittering weapons,--in
a word, all that was powerful, brilliant, and wealthy in Rome. In the farther rows sat knights;
and higher up darkened in rows a sea of common heads, above which from pillar to pillar hung
festoons of roses, lilies, ivy, and grapevines.

People conversed aloud, called to one another, sang; at times they broke into laughter at some
witty word which was sent from row to row, and they stamped with impatience to hasten the spectacle.

At last the stamping became like thunder, and unbroken. Then the prefect of the city, who rode
around the arena with a brilliant retinue, gave a signal with a handkerchief, which was answered
throughout the amphitheatre by "A-a-a!" from thousands of breasts.

Usually a spectacle was begun by hunts of wild beasts, in which various Northern and Southern
barbarians excelled; but this time they had too many beasts, so they began with andabates,--that
is, men wearing helmets without an opening for the eyes, hence fighting blindfold. A number
of these came into the arena together, and slashed at random with their swords; the scourgers
with long forks pushed some toward others to make them meet. The more select of the audience
looked with contempt and indifference at this spectacle; but the crowd were amused by the awkward
motions of the swordsmen. When it happened that they met with their shoulders, they burst out
in loud laughter. "To the right!" "To the left!" cried they, misleading the opponents frequently
by design. A number of pairs closed, however, and the struggle began to be bloody. The determined
combatants cast aside their shields, and giving their left hands to each other, so as not to
part again, struggled to the death with their right. Whoever fell raised his fingers, begging
mercy by that sign; but in the beginning of a spectacle the audience demanded death usually
for the wounded, especially in the case of men who had their faces covered and were unknown.
Gradually the number of combatants decreased; and when at last only two remained, these were
pushed together; both fell on the sand, and stabbed each other mutually. Then, amid cries of
"Peractum est!" servants carried out the bodies, youths raked away the bloody traces on the
sand and sprinkled it with leaves of saffron.

