 The clerks
pondered for a long time, but at last they said that no one was sure of his life with the head-servant,
for he could kill a man as easily as a midge, and that the bailiff ought to make him get into
the well and clean it, and when he was down below, they would roll up one of the mill-stones
which was lying there, and throw it on his head; and then he would never return to daylight.
The advice pleased the bailiff, and the head-servant was quite willing to go down the well.
When he was standing down below at the bottom, they rolled down the largest mill-stone and
thought they had broken his skull, but he cried, "Chase away those hens from the well, they
are scratching in the sand up there, and throwing the grains into my eyes, so that I can't
see." So the bailiff cried, "Sh-sh," and pretended to frighten the hens away. When the head-servant
had finished his work, he climbed up and said, "Just look what a beautiful neck-tie I have
on," and behold it was the mill-stone which he was wearing round his neck. The head-servant
now wanted to take his reward, but the bailiff again begged for a fortnight's delay. The clerks
met together and advised him to send the head-servant to the haunted mill to grind corn by
night, for from thence as yet no man had ever returned in the morning alive. The proposal pleased
the bailiff, he called the head-servant that very evening, and ordered him to take eight bushels
of corn to the mill, and grind it that night, for it was wanted. So the head-servant went to
the loft, and put two bushels in his right pocket, and two in his left, and took four in a
wallet, half on his back, and half on his breast, and thus laden went to the haunted mill.
The miller told him that he could grind there very well by day, but not by night, for the mill
was haunted, and that up to the present time whosoever had gone into it at night had been found
in the morning lying dead inside. He said, "I will manage it, just you go away to bed." Then
he went into the mill, and poured out the corn. About eleven o'clock he went into the miller's
room, and sat down on the bench.  When he had sat there a while, a door suddenly opened, and
a large table came in, and on the table, wine and roasted meats placed themselves, and much
good food besides, but everything came of itself, for no one was there to carry it. After this
the chairs pushed themselves up, but no people came, until all at once he beheld fingers, which
handled knives and forks, and laid food on the plates, but with this exception he saw nothing.
As he was hungry, and saw the food, he, too, place himself at the table, ate with those who
were eating and enjoyed it. When he had had enough, and the others also had quite emptied their
dishes, he distinctly heard all the candles being suddenly snuffed out, and as it was now pitch
dark, he felt something like a box on the ear. Then he said, "If anything of that kind comes
again, I shall strike out in return." And when he had received a second box on the ear, he,
too struck out. And so it continued the whole night.  He took nothing without returning it,
but repaid everything with interest, and did not lay about him in vain. At daybreak, however,
everything ceased. When the miller had got up, he wanted to look after him, and wondered if
he were still alive. Then the youth said, "I have eaten my fill, have received some boxes on
the ears, but I have given some in return." The miller rejoiced, and said that the mill was
now released from the spell, and wanted to give him much money as a reward. But he said, "Money,
I will not have, I have enough of it." So he took his meal on his back, went home, and told
the bailiff that he had done what he had been told to do, and would now have the reward agreed
on. When the bailiff heard that, he was seriously alarmed and quite beside himself; he walked
backwards and forwards in the room, and drops of perspiration ran down from his forehead. Then
he opened the window to get some fresh air, but before he was aware, the head-servant had given
him such a kick that he flew through the window out into the air, and so far away that no one
ever saw him again. Then said the head-servant to the bailiff's wife, "If he does not come
back, you must take the other blow." She cried, "No, no I cannot bear it," and opened the other
window, because drops of perspiration were running down her forehead. Then he gave her such
a kick that she, too, flew out, and as she was lighter she went much higher than her husband.
Her husband cried, "Do come to me," but she replied, "Come thou to me, I cannot come to thee."
And they hovered about there in the air, and could not get to each other, and whether they
are still hovering about, or not, I do not know, but the young giant took up his iron bar,
and went on his way.

91 The Gnome

There was once upon a time a rich King who had three daughters, who daily went to walk in the
palace garden, and the King was a great lover of all kinds of fine trees, but there was one
for which he had such an affection, that if anyone gathered an apple from it he wished him
a hundred fathoms underground. And when harvest time came, the apples on this tree were all
as red as blood. The three daughters went every day beneath the tree, and looked to see if
the wind had not blown down an apple, but they never by any chance found one, and the tree
was so loaded with them that it was almost breaking, and the branches hung down to the ground.
Then the King's youngest child had a great desire for an apple, and said to her sisters, "Our
father loves us far too much to wish us underground, it is my belief that he would only do
that to people who were strangers." And while she was speaking, the child plucked off quite
a large apple, and ran to her sisters, saying, "Just taste, my dear little sisters, for never
in my life have I tasted anything so delightful." Then the two other sisters also ate some
of the apple, whereupon all three sank deep down into the earth, where they could hear no cock
crow.

When mid-day came, the King wished to call them to come to dinner, but they were nowhere to
be found. He sought them everywhere in the palace and garden, but could not find them. Then
he was much troubled, and made known to the whole land that whosoever brought his daughters
back again should have one of them to wife. Hereupon so many young men went about the country
in search, that there was no counting them, for every one loved the three children because
they were so kind to all, and so fair of face. Three young huntsmen also went out, and when
they had travelled about for eight days, they arrived at a great castle, in which were beautiful
apartments, and in one room a table was laid on which were delicate dishes which were still
so warm that they were smoking, but in the whole of the castle no human being was either to
be seen or heard. They waited there for half a day, and the food still remained warm and smoking,
and at length they were so hungry that they sat down and ate, and agreed with each other that
they would stay and live in that castle, and that one of them, who should be chosen by casting
lots, should remain in the house, and the two others seek the King's daughters. They cast lots,
and the lot fell on the eldest; so next day the two younger went out to seek, and the eldest
had to stay home. At mid-day came a small, small mannikin and begged for a piece of bread,
then the huntsman took the bread which he had found there, and cut a round off the loaf and
was about to give it to him, but whilst he was giving it to the mannikin, the latter let it
fall, and asked the huntsman to be so good as to give him that piece again. The huntsman was
about to do so and stooped, on which the mannikin took a stick, seized him by the hair, and
gave him a good beating. Next day, the second stayed at home, and he fared no better. When
the two others returned in the evening, the eldest said, "Well, how have you got on?"

"Oh, very badly," said he, and then they lamented their misfortune together, but they said
nothing about it to the youngest, for they did not like him at all, and always called him Stupid
Hans, because he did not exactly belong to the forest.  On the third day, the youngest stayed
at home, and again the little mannikin came and begged for a piece of bread. When the youth
gave it to him, the elf let it fall as before, and asked him to be so good as to give him that
piece again. Then said Hans to the little mannikin, "What! canst thou not pick up that piece
thyself? If thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily bread, thou dost not deserve
to have it." Then the mannikin grew very angry and said he was to do it, but the huntsman would
not, and took my dear mannikin, and gave him a thorough beating. Then the mannikin screamed
terribly, and cried, "Stop, stop, and let me go, and I will tell thee where the King's daughters
are." When Hans heard that, he left off beating him and the mannikin told him that he was an
earth mannikin, and that there were more than a thousand like him, and that if he would go
with him he would show him where the King's daughters were. Then he showed him a deep well,
but there was no water in it. And the elf said that he knew well that the companions Hans had
with him did not intend to deal honourably with him, therefore if he wished to deliver the
King's children, he must do it alone. The two other brothers would also be very glad to recover
the King's daughters, but they did not want to have any trouble or danger. Hans was therefore
to take a large basket, and he must seat himself in it with his hanger and a bell, and be let
down. Below were three rooms, and in each of them was a princess, with a many-headed dragon,
whose heads she was to comb and trim, but he must cut them off. And having said all this, the
elf vanished. When it was evening the two brothers came and asked how he had got on, and he
said, "pretty well so far," and that he had seen no one except at mid-day when a little mannikin
had come and begged for a piece of bread, that he had given some to him, but that the mannikin
had let it fall and had asked him to pick it up again; but as he did not choose to do that,
the elf had begun to lose his temper, and that he had done what he ought not, and had given
the elf a beating, on which he had told him where the King's daughters were. Then the two were
so angry at this that they grew green and yellow. Next morning they went to the well together,
and drew lots who should first seat himself in the basket, and again the lot fell on the eldest,
and he was to seat himself in it, and take the bell with him. Then he said, "If I ring, you
must draw me up again immediately." When he had gone down for a short distance, he rang, and
they at once drew him up again. Then the second seated himself in the basket, but he did just
the same as the first, and then it was the turn of the youngest, but he let himself be lowered
quite to the bottom. When he had got out of the basket, he took his hanger, and went and stood
outside the first door and listened, and heard the dragon snoring quite loudly. He opened the
door slowly, and one of the princesses was sitting there, and had nine dragon's heads lying
upon her lap, and was combing them. Then he took his hanger and hewed at them, and the nine
fell off. The princess sprang up, threw her arms round his neck, embraced and kissed him repeatedly,
and took her stomacher, which was made of pure gold, and hung it round his neck. Then he went
to the second princess, who had a dragon with five heads to comb, and delivered her also, and
to the youngest, who had a dragon with four heads, he went likewise. And they all rejoiced,
and embraced him and kissed him without stopping. Then he rang very loud, so that those above
heard him, and he placed the princesses one after the other in the basket, and had them all
drawn up, but when it came to his own turn he remembered the words of the elf, who had told
him that his comrades did not mean well by him. So he took a great stone which was lying there,
and placed it in the basket, and when it was about half way up, his false brothers above cut
the rope, so that the basket with the stone fell to the ground, and they thought that he was
dead, and ran away with the three princesses, making them promise to tell their father that
it was they who had delivered them, and then they went to the King, and each demanded a princess
in marriage.

In the meantime the youngest huntsman was wandering about the three chambers in great trouble,
fully expecting to have to end his days there, when he saw, hanging on the wall, a flute; then
said he, "Why dost thou hang there, no one can be merry here?" He looked at the dragons, heads
likewise and said, "You too cannot help me now." He walked backwards and forwards for such
a long time that he made the surface of the ground quite smooth. But at last other thoughts
came to his mind, and he took the flute from the wall, and played a few notes on it, and suddenly
a number of elves appeared, and with every note that he sounded one more came. Then he played
until the room was entirely filled. They all asked what he desired, so he said he wished to
get above ground back to daylight, on which they seized him by every hair that grew on his
head, and thus they flew with him onto the earth again. When he was above ground, he at once
went to the King's palace, just as the wedding of one princess was about to be celebrated,
and he went to the room where the King and his three daughters were. When the princesses saw
him they fainted. Hereupon the King was angry, and ordered him to be put in prison at once,
because he thought he must have done some injury to the children. When the princesses came
to themselves, however, they entreated the King to set him free again. The King asked why,
and they said that they were not allowed to tell that, but their father said that they were
to tell it to the stove. And he went out, listened at the door, and heard everything. Then
he caused the two brothers to be hanged on the gallows, and to the third he gave his youngest
daughter, and on that occasion I wore a pair of glass shoes, and I struck them against a stone,
and they said, "Klink," and were broken.

92 The King of the Golden Mountain

There was a certain merchant who had two children, a boy and a girl; they were both young,
and could not walk. And two richly-laden ships of his sailed forth to sea with all his property
on board, and just as he was expecting to win much money by them, news came that they had gone
to the bottom, and now instead of being a rich man he was a poor one, and had nothing left
but one field outside the town. In order to drive his misfortune a little out of his thoughts,
he went out to this field, and as he was walking forwards and backwards in it, a little black
mannikin stood suddenly by his side, and asked why he was so sad, and what he was taking so
much to heart. Then said the merchant, "If thou couldst help me I would willingly tell thee."
"Who knows?" replied the black dwarf. "Perhaps, I can help thee." Then the merchant told him
that all he possessed had gone to the bottom of the sea, and that he had nothing left but this
field. "Do not trouble thyself," said the dwarf. "If thou wilt promise to give me the first
thing that rubs itself against thy leg when thou art at home again, and to bring it here to
this place in twelve years' time, thou shalt have as much money as thou wilt." The merchant
thought, "What can that be but my dog?" and did not remember his little boy, so he said yes,
gave the black man a written and sealed promise, and went home.

When he reached home, his little boy was so delighted that he held by a bench, tottered up
to him and seized him fast by the legs. The father was shocked, for he remembered his promise,
and now knew what he had pledged himself to do; as however, he still found no money in his
chest, he thought the dwarf had only been jesting. A month afterwards he went up to the garret,
intending to gather together some old tin and to sell it, and saw a great heap of money lying.
Then he was happy again, made purchases, became a greater merchant than before, and felt that
this world was well-governed. In the meantime the boy grew tall, and at the same time sharp
and clever. But the nearer the twelfth year approached the more anxious grew the merchant,
so that his distress might be seen in his face.  One day his son asked what ailed him, but
the father would not say. The boy, however, persisted so long, that at last he told him that
without being aware of what he was doing, he had promised him to a black dwarf, and had received
much money for doing so. He said likewise that he had set his hand and seal to this, and that
now when twelve years had gone by he would have to give him up.  Then said the son, "Oh, father,
do not be uneasy, all will go well. The black man has no power over me." The son had himself
blessed by the priest, and when the time came, father and son went together to the field, and
the son made a circle and placed himself inside it with his father. Then came the black dwarf
and said to the old man, "Hast thou brought with thee that which thou hast promised me?"  He
was silent, but the son asked, "What dost thou want here?" Then said the black dwarf, "I have
to speak with thy father, and not with thee." The son replied, "Thou hast betrayed and misled
my father, give back the writing." "No," said the black dwarf, "I will not give up my rights."
They spoke together for a long time after this, but at last they agreed that the son, as he
did not belong to the enemy of mankind, nor yet to his father, should seat himself in a small
boat, which should lie on water which was flowing away from them, and that the father should
push it off with his own foot, and then the son should remain given up to the water. So he
took leave of his father, placed himself in a little boat, and the father had to push it off
with his own foot. The boat capsized so that the keel was uppermost, and the father believed
his son was lost, and went home and mourned for him.

The boat, however, did not sink, but floated quietly away, and the boy sat safely inside it,
and it floated thus for a long time, until at last it stopped by an unknown shore. Then he
landed and saw a beautiful castle before him, and set out to go to it. But when he entered
it, he found that it was bewitched. He went through every room, but all were empty until he
reached the last, where a snake lay coiled in a ring. The snake, however, was an enchanted
maiden, who rejoiced to see him, and said, "Hast thou come, oh, my deliverer? I have already
waited twelve years for thee; this kingdom is bewitched, and thou must set it free."  "How
can I do that?" he inquired. "To-night come twelve black men, covered with chains who will
ask what thou art doing here; keep silent; give them no answer, and let them do what they will
with thee; they will torment thee, beat thee, stab thee; let everything pass, only do not speak;
at twelve o'clock, they must go away again. On the second night twelve others will come; on
the third, four-and-twenty, who will cut off thy head, but at twelve o'clock their power will
be over, and then if thou hast endured all, and hast not spoken the slightest word, I shall
be released. I will come to thee, and will have, in a bottle, some of the water of life. I
will rub thee with that, and then thou wilt come to life again, and be as healthy as before."
Then said he, "I will gladly set thee free." And everything happened just as she had said;
the black men could not force a single word from him, and on the third night the snake became
a beautiful princess, who came with the water of life and brought him back to life again. So
she threw herself into his arms and kissed him, and there was joy and gladness in the whole
castle. After this their marriage was celebrated, and he was King of the Golden Mountain.

They lived very happily together, and the Queen bore a fine boy. Eight years had already gone
by, when the King bethought him of his father; his heart was moved, and he wished to visit
him. The Queen, however, would not let him go away, and said, "I know beforehand that it will
cause my unhappiness;" but he suffered her to have no rest until she consented. At their parting
she gave him a wishing-ring, and said, "Take this ring and put it on thy finger, and then thou
wilt immediately be transported whithersoever thou wouldst be, only thou must promise me not
to use it in wishing me away from this place and with thy father." That he promised her, put
the ring on his finger, and wished himself at home, just outside the town where his father
lived. Instantly he found himself there, and made for the town, but when he came to the gate,
the sentries would not let him in, because he wore such strange and yet such rich and magnificent
clothing.  Then he went to a hill where a shepherd was watching his sheep, changed clothes
with him, put on his old shepherd's-coat, and then entered the town without hindrance. When
he came to his father, he made himself known to him, but he did not at all believe that the
shepherd was his son, and said he certainly had had a son, but that he was dead long ago; however,
as he saw he was a poor, needy shepherd, he would give him something to eat. Then the shepherd
said to his parents, "I am verily your son. Do you know of no mark on my body by which you
could recognize me?" "Yes," said his mother, "our son had a raspberry mark under his right
arm." He slipped back his shirt, and they saw the raspberry under his right arm, and no longer
doubted that he was their son. Then he told them that he was King of the Golden Mountain, and
a king's daughter was his wife, and that they had a fine son of seven years old. Then said
the father, "That is certainly not true; it is a fine kind of a king who goes about in a ragged
shepherd's-coat." On this the son fell in a passion, and without thinking of his promise, turned
his ring round, and wished both his wife and child with him.  They were there in a second,
but the Queen wept, and reproached him, and said that he had broken his word, and had brought
misfortune upon her. He said, "I have done it thoughtlessly, and not with evil intention,"
and tried to calm her, and she pretended to believe this; but she had mischief in her mind.

Then he led her out of the town into the field, and showed her the stream where the little
boat had been pushed off, and then he said, "I am tired; sit down, I will sleep awhile on thy
lap." And he laid his head on her lap, and fell asleep. When he was asleep, she first drew
the ring from his finger, then she drew away the foot which was under him, leaving only the
slipper behind her, and she took her child in her arms, and wished herself back in her own
kingdom. When he awoke, there he lay quite deserted, and his wife and child were gone, and
so was the ring from his finger, the slipper only was still there as a token. "Home to thy
parents thou canst not return," thought he, "they would say that thou wast a wizard; thou must
be off, and walk on until thou arrivest in thine own kingdom."  So he went away and came at
length to a hill by which three giants were standing, disputing with each other because they
did not know how to divide their father's property. When they saw him passing by, they called
to him and said little men had quick wits, and that he was to divide their inheritance for
them. The inheritance, however, consisted of a sword, which had this property that if any one
took it in his hand, and said, "All heads off but mine," every head would lie on the ground;
secondly, of a cloak which made any one who put it on invisible; thirdly, of a pair of boots
which could transport the wearer to any place he wished in a moment. He said, "Give me the
three things that I may see if they are still in good condition." They gave him the cloak,
and when he had put it on, he was invisible and changed into a fly. Then he resumed his own
form and said, "The cloak is a good one, now give me the sword." They said, "No, we will not
give thee that; if thou were to say, All heads off but mine,' all our heads would be off, and
thou alone wouldst be left with thine." Nevertheless they gave it to him with the condition
that he was only to try it against a tree. This he did, and the sword cut in two the trunk
of a tree as if it had been a blade of straw. Then he wanted to have the boots likewise, but
they said, "No, we will not give them; if thou hadst them on thy feet and wert to wish thyself
at the top of the hill, we should be left down here with nothing." "Oh, no," said he, "I will
not do that." So they gave him the boots as well. And now when he had got all these things,
he thought of nothing but his wife and his child, and said as though to himself, "Oh, if I
were but on the Golden Mountain," and at the same moment he vanished from the sight of the
giants, and thus their inheritance was divided. When he was near his palace, he heard sounds
of joy, and fiddles, and flutes, and the people told him that his wife was celebrating her
wedding with another. Then he fell into a rage, and said, "False woman, she betrayed and deserted
me whilst I was asleep!" So he put on his cloak, and unseen by all went into the palace. When
he entered the dining-hall a great table was spread with delicious food, and the guests were
eating and drinking, and laughing, and jesting. She sat on a royal seat in the midst of them
in splendid apparel, with a crown on her head. He placed himself behind her, and no one saw
him. When she put a piece of meat on a plate for herself, he took it away and ate it, and when
she poured out a glass of wine for herself, he took it away and drank it. She was always helping
herself to something, and yet she never got anything, for plate and glass disappeared immediately.
Then dismayed and ashamed, she arose and went to her chamber and wept, but he followed her
there. She said, "Has the devil power over me, or did my deliverer never come?" Then he struck
her in the face, and said, "Did thy deliverer never come? It is he who has thee in his power,
thou traitor. Have I deserved this from thee?" Then he made himself visible, went into the
hall, and cried, "The wedding is at an end, the true King has returned." The kings, princes,
and councillors who were assembled there, ridiculed and mocked him, but he did not trouble
to answer them, and said, "Will you go away, or not?" On this they tried to seize him and pressed
upon him, but he drew his sword and said, "All heads off but mine," and all the heads rolled
on the ground, and he alone was master, and once more King of the Golden Mountain.

93 The Raven

There was once upon a time a Queen who had a little daughter who was still so young that she
had to be carried. One day the child was naughty, and the mother might say what she liked,
but the child would not be quiet. Then she became impatient, and as the ravens were flying
about the palace, she opened the window and said, "I wish you were a raven and would fly away,
and then I should have some rest." Scarcely had she spoken the words, before the child was
changed into a raven, and flew from her arms out of the window. It flew into a dark forest,
and stayed in it a long time, and the parents heard nothing of their child. Then one day a
man was on his way through this forest and heard the raven crying, and followed the voice,
and when he came nearer, the bird said, "I am a king's daughter by birth, and am bewitched,
but thou canst set me free." "What am I to do," asked he. She said, "Go further into the forest,
and thou wilt find a house, wherein sits an aged woman, who will offer thee meat and drink,
but you must accept nothing, for if you eatest and drinkest anything, thou wilt fall into a
sleep, and then thou wilt not be able to deliver me. In the garden behind the house there is
a great heap of tan, and on this thou shalt stand and wait for me. For three days I will come
every afternoon at two o'clock in a carriage. On the first day four white horses will be harnessed
to it, then four chestnut horses, and lastly four black ones; but if thou art not awake, but
sleeping, I shall not be set free." The man promised to do everything that she desired, but
the raven said, alas, "I know already that thou wilt not deliver me; thou wilt accept something
from the woman." Then the man once more promised that he would certainly not touch anything
either to eat or to drink. But when he entered the house the old woman came to him and said,
"Poor man, how faint you are; come and refresh yourself; eat and drink." "No," said the man,
"I will not eat or drink."  She, however, let him have no peace, and said, "If you will not
eat, take one drink out of the glass; one is nothing." Then he let himself be persuaded, and
drank. Shortly before two o'clock in the afternoon he went into the garden to the tan heap
to wait for the raven. As he was standing there, his weariness all at once became so great
that he could not struggle against it, and lay down for a short time, but he was determined
not to go to sleep. Hardly, however, had he lain down, than his eyes closed of their own accord,
and he fell asleep and slept so soundly that nothing in the world could have aroused him. At
two o'clock the raven came driving up with four white horses, but she was already in deep grief
and said, "I know he is asleep." And when she came into the garden, he was indeed lying there
asleep on the heap of tan. She alighted from the carriage, went to him, shook him, and called
him, but he did not awake. Next day about noon, the old woman came again and brought him food
and drink, but he would not take any of it. But she let him have no rest and persuaded him
until at length he again took one drink out of the glass. Towards two o'clock he went into
the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven, but all at once felt such a great weariness
that his limbs would no longer support him. He could not help himself, and was forced to lie
down, and fell into a heavy sleep. When the raven drove up with four brown horses, she was
already full of grief, and said, "I know he is asleep." She went to him, but there he lay sleeping,
and there was no wakening him. Next day the old woman asked what was the meaning of this? He
was neither eating nor drinking anything; did he want to die? He replied, "I am not allowed
to eat or drink, and will not do so." But she set a dish with food, and a glass with wine before
him, and when he smelt it he could not resist, and swallowed a deep draught. When the time
came, he went out into the garden to the heap of tan, and waited for the King's daughter; but
he became still more weary than on the day before, and lay down and slept as soundly as if
he had been a stone. At two o'clock the raven came with four black horses, and the coachman
and everything else was black. She was already in the deepest grief, and said, "I know that
he is asleep and cannot deliver me." When she came to him, there he was lying fast asleep.
She shook him and called him, but she could not waken him. Then she laid a loaf beside him,
and after that a piece of meat, and thirdly a bottle of wine, and he might consume as much
of all of them as he liked, but they would never grow less. After this she took a gold ring
from her finger, and put it on his, and her name was graven on it. Lastly, she laid a letter
beside him wherein was written what she had given him, and that none of the things would ever
grow less; and in it was also written, "I see right well that here you will never be able to
deliver me, but if thou art still willing to deliver me, come to the golden castle of Stromberg;
it lies in thy power, of that I am certain." And when she had given him all these things, she
seated herself in her carriage, and drove to the golden castle of Stromberg.

When the man awoke and saw that he had slept, he was sad at heart, and said, "She has certainly
driven by, and I have not set her free." Then he perceived the things which were lying beside
him, and read the letter wherein was written how everything had happened. So he arose and went
away, intending to go to the golden castle of Stromberg, but he did not know where it was.
After he had walked about the world for a long time, he entered into a dark forest, and walked
for fourteen days, and still could not find his way out. Then it was once more evening, and
he was so tired that he lay down in a thicket and fell asleep.  Next day he went onwards, and
in the evening, as he was again about to lie down beneath some bushes, he heard such a howling
and crying that he could not go to sleep. And at the time when people light the candles, he
saw one glimmering, and arose and went towards it. Then he came to a house which seemed very
small, for in front of it a great giant was standing. He thought to himself, "If I go in, and
the giant sees me, it will very likely cost me my life."

At length he ventured it and went in. When the giant saw him, he said, "It is well that thou
comest, for it is long since I have eaten; I will at once eat thee for my supper." "I'd rather
you would leave that alone," said the man, "I do not like to be eaten; but if thou hast any
desire to eat, I have quite enough here to satisfy thee." "If that be true," said the giant,
"thou mayst be easy, I was only going to devour thee because I had nothing else." Then they
went, and sat down to the table, and the man took out the bread, wine, and meat which would
never come to an end. "This pleases me well," said the giant, and ate to his heart's content.
Then the man said to him, "Canst thou tell me where the golden castle of Stromberg is?" The
giant said, "I will look at my map; all the towns, and villages, and houses are to be found
on it." He brought out the map which he had in the room and looked for the castle, but it was
not to be found on it. "It's no matter!"  said he, "I have some still larger maps in my cupboard
upstairs, and we will look in them." But there, too, it was in vain. The man now wanted to
go onwards, but the giant begged him to wait a few days longer until his brother, who had gone
out to bring some provisions, came home. When the brother came home they inquired about the
golden castle of Stromberg. He replied, "When I have eaten and have had enough, I will look
in the map." Then he went with them up to his chamber, and they searched in his map, but could
not find it. Then he brought out still older maps, and they never rested until they found the
golden castle of Stromberg, but it was many thousand miles away. "How am I to get there?" 
asked the man. The giant said, "I have two hours' time, during which I will carry you into
the neighbourhood, but after that I must be at home to suckle the child that we have." So the
giant carried the man to about a hundred leagues from the castle, and said, "Thou canst very
well walk the rest of the way alone." And he turned back, but the man went onwards day and
night, until at length he came to the golden castle of Stromberg. It stood on a glass-mountain,
and the bewitched maiden drove in her carriage round the castle, and then went inside it. He
rejoiced when he saw her and wanted to climb up to her, but when he began to do so he always
slipped down the glass again. And when he saw that he could not reach her, he was filled with
trouble, and said to himself, "I will stay down here below, and wait for her." So he built
himself a hut and stayed in it for a whole year, and every day saw the King's daughter driving
about above, but never could go to her. Then one day he saw from his hut three robbers who
were beating each other, and cried to them, "God be with ye!" They stopped when they heard
the cry, but as they saw no one, they once more began to beat each other, and that too most
dangerously. So he again cried, "God be with ye!" Again they stopped, looked round about, but
as they saw no one they went on beating each other. Then he cried for the third time, "God
be with ye," and thought, "I must see what these three are about," and went thither and asked
why they were beating each other so furiously. One of them said that he found a stick, and
that when he struck a door with it, that door would spring open. The next said that he had
found a mantle, and that whenever he put it on, he was invisible, but the third said he had
found a horse on which a man could ride everywhere, even up the glass-mountain. And now they
did not know whether they ought to have these things in common, or whether they ought to divide
them. Then the man said, "I will give you something in exchange for these three things. Money
indeed have I not, but I have other things of more value; but first I must try yours to see
if you have told the truth." Then they put him on the horse, threw the mantle round him, and
gave him the stick in his hand, and when he had all these things they were no longer able to
see him. So he gave them some vigorous blows and cried, "Now, vagabonds, you have got what
you deserve, are you satisfied?" And he rode up the glass-mountain, but when he came in front
of the castle at the top, it was shut. Then he struck the door with his stick, and it sprang
open immediately. He went in and ascended the stairs until he came to the hall where the maiden
was sitting with a golden cup full of wine before her. She, however, could not see him because
he had the mantle on. And when he came up to her, he drew from his finger the ring which she
had given him, and threw it into the cup so that it rang. Then she cried, "That is my ring,
so the man who is to set me free must be here." They searched the whole castle and did not
find him, but he had gone out, and had seated himself on the horse and thrown off the mantle.
When they came to the door, they saw him and cried aloud in their delight.* Then he alighted
and took the King's daughter in his arms, but she kissed him and said, "Now hast thou set me
free, and to-morrow we will celebrate our wedding."

94 The Peasant's Wise Daughter

There was once a poor peasant who had no land, but only a small house, and one daughter. Then
said the daughter, "We ought to ask our lord the King for a bit of newly-cleared land." When
the King heard of their poverty, he presented them with a piece of land, which she and her
father dug up, and intended to sow with a little corn and grain of that kind. When they had
dug nearly the whole of the field, they found in the earth a mortar made of pure gold. "Listen,"
said the father to the girl, "as our lord the King has been so gracious and presented us with
the field, we ought to give him this mortar in return for it." The daughter, however, would
not consent to this, and said, "Father, if we have the mortar without having the pestle as
well, we shall have to get the pestle, so you had much better say nothing about it." He would,
however, not obey her, but took the mortar and carried it to the King, said that he had found
it in the cleared land, and asked if he would accept it as a present. The King took the mortar,
and asked if he had found nothing besides that? "No," answered the countryman.  Then the King
said that he must now bring him the pestle. The peasant said they had not found that, but he
might just as well have spoken to the wind; he was put in prison, and was to stay there until
he produced the pestle. The servants had daily to carry him bread and water, which is what
people get in prison, and they heard how the man cried out continually, "Ah! if I had but listened
to my daughter! Alas, alas, if I had but listened to my daughter!" and would neither eat nor
drink. So he commanded the servants to bring the prisoner before him, and then the King asked
the peasant why he was always crying, "Ah! if I had but listened to my daughter!" and what
it was that his daughter had said. "She told me that I ought not to take the mortar to you,
for I should have to produce the pestle as well." "If you have a daughter who is as wise as
that, let her come here." She was therefore obliged to appear before the King, who asked her
if she really was so wise, and said he would set her a riddle, and if she could guess that,
he would marry her. She at once said yes, she would guess it. Then said the King, "Come to
me not clothed, not naked, not riding, not walking, not in the road, and not out of the road,
and if thou canst do that I will marry thee." So she went away, put off everything she had
on, and then she was not clothed, and took a great fishing net, and seated herself in it and
wrapped it entirely round and round her, so that she was not naked, and she hired an ass, and
tied the fisherman's net to its tail, so that it was forced to drag her along, and that was
neither riding nor walking. The ass had also to drag her in the ruts, so that she only touched
the ground with her great toe, and that was neither being in the road nor out of the road.
And when she arrived in that fashion, the King said she had guessed the riddle and fulfilled
all the conditions. Then he ordered her father to be released from the prison, took her to
wife, and gave into her care all the royal possessions.

Now when some years had passed, the King was once drawing up his troops on parade, when it
happened that some peasants who had been selling wood stopped with their waggons before the
palace; some of them had oxen yoked to them, and some horses. There was one peasant who had
three horses, one of which was delivered of a young foal, and it ran away and lay down between
two oxen which were in front of the waggon. When the peasants came together, they began to
dispute, to beat each other and make a disturbance, and the peasant with the oxen wanted to
keep the foal, and said one of the oxen had given birth to it, and the other said his horse
had had it, and that it was his. The quarrel came before the King, and he give the verdict
that the foal should stay where it had been found, and so the peasant with the oxen, to whom
it did not belong, got it. Then the other went away, and wept and lamented over his foal. Now
he had heard how gracious his lady the Queen was because she herself had sprung from poor peasant
folks, so he went to her and begged her to see if she could not help him to get his foal back
again. Said she, "Yes, I will tell you what to do, if thou wilt promise me not to betray me.
Early to-morrow morning, when the King parades the guard, place thyself there in the middle
of the road by which he must pass, take a great fishing-net and pretend to be fishing; go on
fishing, too, and empty out the net as if thou hadst got it full" and then she told him also
what he was to say if he was questioned by the King. The next day, therefore, the peasant stood
there, and fished on dry ground. When the King passed by, and saw that, he sent his messenger
to ask what the stupid man was about? He answered, "I am fishing." The messenger asked how
he could fish when there was no water there? The peasant said, "It is as easy for me to fish
on dry land as it is for an ox to have a foal." The messenger went back and took the answer
to the King, who ordered the peasant to be brought to him and told him that this was not his
own idea, and he wanted to know whose it was? The peasant must confess this at once. The peasant,
however, would not do so, and said always, God forbid he should! the idea was his own. They
laid him, however, on a heap of straw, and beat him and tormented him so long that at last
he admitted that he had got the idea from the Queen.

When the King reached home again, he said to his wife, "Why hast thou behaved so falsely to
me? I will not have thee any longer for a wife; thy time is up, go back to the place from whence
thou camest to thy peasant's hut." One favour, however, he granted her; she might take with
her the one thing that was dearest and best in her eyes; and thus was she dismissed. She said,
"Yes, my dear husband, if you command this, I will do it," and she embraced him and kissed
him, and said she would take leave of him. Then she ordered a powerful sleeping draught to
be brought, to drink farewell to him; the King took a long draught, but she took only a little.
He soon fell into a deep sleep, and when she perceived that, she called a servant and took
a fair white linen cloth and wrapped the King in it, and the servant was forced to carry him
into a carriage that stood before the door, and she drove with him to her own little house.
She laid him in her own little bed, and he slept one day and one night without awakening, and
when he awoke he looked round and said, "Good God! where am I?" He called his attendants, but
none of them were there. At length his wife came to his bedside and said, "My dear lord and
King, you told me I might bring away with me from the palace that which was dearest and most
precious in my eyes I have nothing more precious and dear than yourself, so I have brought
you with me." Tears rose to the King's eyes and he said, "Dear wife, thou shalt be mine and
I will be thine," and he took her back with him to the royal palace and was married again to
her, and at the present time they are very likely still living.

95 Old Hildebrand

Once upon a time lived a peasant and his wife, and the parson of the village had a fancy for
the wife, and had wished for a long while to spend a whole day happily with her. The peasant
woman, too, was quite willing. One day, therefore, he said to the woman, "Listen, my dear friend,
I have now thought of a way by which we can for once spend a whole day happily together.

"I will manage it," said the woman promptly. Now therefore on the Wednesday, the peasant woman
took to her bed, and complained and lamented as agreed on, and her husband did everything for
her that he could think of, but nothing did her any good, and when Sunday came the woman said,
"I feel as ill as if I were going to die at once, but there is one thing I should like to do
before my end I should like to hear the parson's sermon that he is going to preach to-day."
On that the peasant said, "Ah, my child, do not do it---thou mightest make thyself worse if
thou wert to get up. Look, I will go to the sermon, and will attend to it very carefully, and
will tell thee everything the parson says."

"Well," said the woman, "go, then, and pay great attention, and repeat to me all that thou
hearest."

Then no one was more rejoiced than the peasant, and after the service was over, he went at
once to the parson, who gave him the bag for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer. After that
he went home, and even at the house door he cried, "Hurrah! dear wife, it is now almost the
same thing as if thou wert well! He was, however, hardly gone before the woman got up, and
the parson was there directly.

But now we will leave these two for a while, and follow the peasant, who walked on quickly
without stopping, in order to get the sooner to the Göckerli hill, and on his way he met his
gossip. His gossip was an egg-merchant, and was just coming from the market, where he had sold
his eggs. "May you be blessed," said the gossip, "where are you off to so fast?" "But listen,
gossip," said the egg-merchant to the peasant, "are you, then, stupid enough to believe such
a thing as that? Don't you know what it means? The parson wants to spend a whole day alone
with your wife in peace, so he has given you this job to do to get you out of the way."

"My word!" said the peasant. "How I'd like to know if that's true!"

"Come, then," said the gossip, "I'll tell you what to do. Get into my egg-basket and I will
carry you home, and then you will see for yourself." So that was settled, and the gossip put
the peasant into his egg-basket and carried him home.

When they got to the house, hurrah! but all was going merry there! The woman had already had
nearly everything killed that was in the farmyard, and had made pancakes, and the parson was
there, and had brought his fiddle with him. The gossip knocked at the door, and woman asked
who was there. "It is I, gossip," said the egg-merchant, "give me shelter this night; I have
not sold my eggs at the market, so now I have to carry them home again, and they are so heavy
that I shall never be able to do it, for it is dark already."

"Indeed, my friend," said the woman, "thou comest at a very inconvenient time for me, but as
thou art here it can't be helped, come in, and take a seat there on the bench by the stove."
Then she placed the gossip and the basket which he carried on his back on the bench by the
stove. The parson, however, and the woman, were as merry as possible. At length the parson
said, "Listen, my dear friend, thou canst sing beautifully; sing something to me." "Oh," said
the woman, "I cannot sing now, in my young days indeed I could sing well enough, but that's
all over now."

"Come," said the parson once more, "do sing some little song."

On that the woman began and sang,

 "I've sent my husband away from me
 To the Göckerli hill in Italy."

Thereupon the parson sang,

 "I wish 'twas a year before he came back,
 I'd never ask himfor the laurel-leaf sack."

Hallelujah.

Then the gossip who was in the background began to sing (but I ought to tell you the peasant
was called Hildebrand), so the gossip sang,

 "What art thou doing, my Hildebrand dear,
 There on the bench by the stove so near?"

Hallelujah.

And then the peasant sang from his basket,

 "All singing I ever shall hate from this day,
 And here in this basket no longer I'll stay."

Hallelujah.

And he got out of the basket, and cudgelled the parson out of the house.

96 The Three Little Birds

About a thousand or more years ago, there were in this country nothing but small kings, and
one of them who lived on the Keuterberg was very fond of hunting.  Once on a time when he was
riding forth from his castle with his huntsmen, three girls were watching their cows upon the
mountain, and when they saw the King with all his followers, the eldest girl pointed to him,
and called to the two other girls, "If I do not get that one, I will have none." Then the second
girl answered from the other side of the hill, and pointed to the one who was on the King's
right hand, "Hilloa! hilloa! If I do not get him, I will have no one." These, however, were
the two ministers. The King heard all this, and when he had come back from the chase, he caused
the three girls to be brought to him, and asked them what they had said yesterday on the mountain.
This they would not tell him, so the King asked the eldest if she really would take him for
her husband? Then she said, "Yes," and the two ministers married the two sisters, for they
were all three fair and beautiful of face, especially the Queen, who had hair like flax. But
the two sisters had no children, and once when the King was obliged to go from home he invited
them to come to the Queen in order to cheer her, for she was about to bear a child. She had
a little boy who brought a bright red star into the world with him. Then the two sisters said
to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the water. When they had thrown
him in (I believe it was into the Weser) a little bird flew up into the air, which sang,

 "To thy death art thou sped,
 Until God's word be said.

 In the white lily bloom,
 Brave boy, is thy tomb."

When the two heard that, they were frightened to death, and ran away in great haste. When the
King came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a dog. Then the King said,
"What God does, is well done!" But a fisherman who dwelt near the water fished the little boy
out again while he was still alive, and as his wife had no children, they reared him. When
a year had gone by, the King again went away, and the Queen had another little boy, whom the
false sisters likewise took and threw into the water.

And when the King came back, they told him that the Queen had once more given birth to a dog,
and he again said, "What God does, is well done." The fisherman, however, fished this one also
out of the water, and reared him.

Then the King again journeyed forth, and the Queen had a little girl, whom also the false sisters
threw into the water.

And when the King came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a cat. Then
the King grew angry, and ordered his wife to be cast into prison, and therein was she shut
up for many long years.

In the meantime the children had grown up. Then eldest once went out with some other boys to
fish, but the other boys would not have him with them, and said, "Go thy way, foundling."

Hereupon he was much troubled, and asked the old fisherman if that was true?  The fisherman
told him that once when he was fishing he had drawn him out of the water. So the boy said he
would go forth and seek his father. The fisherman, however, entreated him to stay, but he would
not let himself be hindered, and at last the fisherman consented. Then the boy went on his
way and walked for many days, and at last he came to a great piece of water by the side of
which stood an old woman fishing. "Good day, mother," said the boy.

"Many thanks," said she.

"Thou wilt fish long enough before thou catchest anything."

"And thou wilt seek long enough before thou findest thy father. How wilt thou get over the
water?" said the woman.

"God knows."

Then the old woman took him up on her back and carried him through it, and he sought for a
long time, but could not find his father.

When a year had gone by, the second boy set out to seek his brother. He came to the water,
and all fared with him just as with his brother. And now there was no one at home but the daughter,
and she mourned for her brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let
her set forth, for she wished to go in search of her brothers. Then she likewise came to the
great piece of water, and she said to the old woman, "Good day, mother."

"Many thanks," replied the old woman.

"May God help you with your fishing," said the maiden. When the old woman heard that, she became
quite friendly, and carried her over the water, gave her a wand, and said to her, "Go, my daughter,
ever onwards by this road, and when you come to a great black dog, you must pass it silently
and boldly, without either laughing or looking at it. Then you will come to a great high castle,
on the threshold of which you must let the wand fall, and go straight through the castle, and
out again on the other side. There you will see an old fountain out of which a large tree has
grown, whereon hangs a bird in a cage which you must take down. Take likewise a glass of water
out of the fountain, and with these two things go back by the same way. Pick up the wand again
from the threshold and take it with you, and when you again pass by the dog, strike him in
the face with it, but be sure that you hit him, and then just come back here to me." The maiden
found everything exactly as the old woman had said, and on her way back she found her two brothers
who had sought each other over half the world. They went together to the place where the black
dog was lying on the road; she struck it in the face, and it turned into a handsome prince
who went with them to the river. There the old woman was still standing. She rejoiced much
to see them again, and carried them all over the water, and then she too went away, for now
she was freed. The others, however, went to the old fisherman, and all were glad that they
had found each other again, but they hung the bird on the wall.

But the second son could not settle at home, and took his cross-bow and went a-hunting. When
he was tired he took his flute, and made music. The King was hunting too, and heard that and
went thither, and when he met the youth, he said, "Who has given thee leave to hunt here?"

"Oh, no one."

"To whom dost thou belong, then?"

"I am the fisherman's son."

"But he has no children."

"If thou wilt not believe, come with me."

That the King did, and questioned the fisherman, who told everything to him, and the little
bird on the wall began to sing,

 "The mother sits alone
 There in the prison small,
 O King of royal blood,
 These are thy children all.
 The sisters twain so false,
 They wrought the children woe,
 There in the waters deep
 Where the fishermen come and go."

Then they were all terrified, and the King took the bird, the fisherman and the three children
back with him to the castle, and ordered the prison to be opened and brought his wife out again.
She had, however, grown quite ill and weak.  Then the daughter gave her some of the water of
the fountain to drink, and she became strong and healthy. But the two false sisters were burnt,
and the daughter married the prince.

97 The Water of Life

There was once a King who had an illness, and no one believed that he would come out of it
with his life. He had three sons who were much distressed about it, and went down into the
palace-garden and wept. There they met an old man who inquired as to the cause of their grief.
They told him that their father was so ill that he would most certainly die, for nothing seemed
to cure him. Then the old man said, "I know of one more remedy, and that is the water of life;
if he drinks of it he will become well again; but it is hard to find." The eldest said, "I
will manage to find it," and went to the sick King, and begged to be allowed to go forth in
search of the water of life, for that alone could save him. "No," said the King, "the danger
of it is too great. I would rather die." But he begged so long that the King consented. The
prince thought in his heart, "If I bring the water, then I shall be best beloved of my father,
and shall inherit the kingdom." So he set out, and when he had ridden forth a little distance,
a dwarf stood there in the road who called to him and said, "Whither away so fast?" "Silly
shrimp," said the prince, very haughtily, "it is nothing to do with you," and rode on. But
the little dwarf had grown angry, and had wished an evil wish. Soon after this the prince entered
a ravine, and the further he rode the closer the mountains drew together, and at last the road
became so narrow that he could not advance a step further; it was impossible either to turn
his horse or to dismount from the saddle, and he was shut in there as if in prison. The sick
King waited long for him, but he came not. Then the second son said, "Father, let me go forth
to seek the water," and thought to himself, "If my brother is dead, then the kingdom will fall
to me." At first the King would not allow him to go either, but at last he yielded, so the
prince set out on the same road that his brother had taken, and he too met the dwarf, who stopped
him to ask, whither he was going in such haste? "Little shrimp," said the prince, "that is
nothing to thee," and rode on without giving him another look. But the dwarf bewitched him,
and he, like the other, rode into a ravine, and could neither go forwards nor backwards. So
fare haughty people.

As the second son also remained away, the youngest begged to be allowed to go forth to fetch
the water, and at last the King was obliged to let him go. When he met the dwarf and the latter
asked him whither he was going in such haste, he stopped, gave him an explanation, and said,
"I am seeking the water of life, for my father is sick unto death." "Dost thou know, then,
where that is to be found?"  "No," said the prince. "As thou hast borne thyself as is seemly,
and not haughtily like thy false brothers, I will give thee the information and tell thee how
thou mayst obtain the water of life. It springs from a fountain in the courtyard of an enchanted
castle, but thou wilt not be able to make thy way to it, if I do not give thee an iron wand
and two small loaves of bread. Strike thrice with the wand on the iron door of the castle and
it will spring open: inside lie two lions with gaping jaws, but if thou throwest a loaf to
each of them, they will be quieted. Then hasten to fetch some of the water of life before the
clock strikes twelve, else the door will shut again, and thou wilt be imprisoned." The prince
thanked him, took the wand and the bread, and set out on his way. When he arrived, everything
was as the dwarf had said. The door sprang open at the third stroke of the wand, and when he
had appeased the lions with the bread, he entered the castle, and came to a large and splendid
hall, wherein sat some enchanted princes whose rings he drew off their fingers. A sword and
a loaf of bread were lying there, which he carried away. After this, he entered a chamber,
in which was a beautiful maiden who rejoiced when she saw him, kissed him, and told him that
he had delivered her, and should have the whole of her kingdom, and that if he would return
in a year their wedding should be celebrated; likewise she told him where the spring of the
water of life was, and that he was to hasten and draw some of it before the clock struck twelve.
Then he went onwards, and at last entered a room where there was a beautiful newly-made bed,
and as he was very weary, he felt inclined to rest a little. So he lay down and fell asleep.
When he awoke, it was striking a quarter to twelve. He sprang up in a fright, ran to the spring,
drew some water in a cup which stood near, and hastened away. But just as he was passing through
the iron door, the clock struck twelve, and the door fell to with such violence that it carried
away a piece of his heel. He, however, rejoicing at having obtained the water of life, went
homewards, and again passed the dwarf. When the latter saw the sword and the loaf, he said,
"With these thou hast won great wealth; with the sword thou canst slay whole armies, and the
bread will never come to an end." But the prince would not go home to his father without his
brothers, and said, "Dear dwarf, canst thou not tell me where my two brothers are? They went
out before I did in search of the water of life, and have not returned." "They are imprisoned
between two mountains," said the dwarf. "I have condemned them to stay there, because they
were so haughty." Then the prince begged until the dwarf released them; but he warned him,
however, and said, "Beware of them, for they have bad hearts." When his brothers came, he rejoiced,
and told them how things had gone with him, that he had found the water of life and had brought
a cupful away with him, and had rescued a beautiful princess, who was willing to wait a year
for him, and then their wedding was to be celebrated and he would obtain a great kingdom. After
that they rode on together, and chanced upon a land where war and famine reigned, and the King
already thought he must perish, for the scarcity was so great. Then the prince went to him
and gave him the loaf, wherewith he fed and satisfied the whole of his kingdom, and then the
prince gave him the sword also wherewith he slew the hosts of his enemies, and could now live
in rest and peace. The prince then took back his loaf and his sword, and the three brothers
rode on. But after this they entered two more countries where war and famine reigned and each
time the prince gave his loaf and his sword to the Kings, and had now delivered three kingdoms,
and after that they went on board a ship and sailed over the sea.  During the passage, the
two eldest conversed apart and said, "The youngest has found the water of life and not we,
for that our father will give him the kingdom the kingdom which belongs to us, and he will
rob us of all our fortune." They then began to seek revenge, and plotted with each other to
destroy him. They waited until they found him fast asleep, then they poured the water of life
out of the cup, and took it for themselves, but into the cup they poured salt sea-water. Now
therefore, when they arrived home, the youngest took his cup to the sick King in order that
he might drink out of it, and be cured. But scarcely had he drunk a very little of the salt
sea-water than he became still worse than before. And as he was lamenting over this, the two
eldest brothers came, and accused the youngest of having intended to poison him, and said that
they had brought him the true water of life, and handed it to him. He had scarcely tasted it,
when he felt his sickness departing, and became strong and healthy as in the days of his youth.
After that they both went to the youngest, mocked him, and said, "You certainly found the water
of life, but you have had the pain, and we the gain; you should have been sharper, and should
have kept your eyes open. We took it from you whilst you were asleep at sea, and when a year
is over, one of us will go and fetch the beautiful princess. But beware that you do not disclose
aught of this to our father; indeed he does not trust you, and if you say a single word, you
shall lose your life into the bargain, but if you keep silent, you shall have it as a gift."

The old King was angry with his youngest son, and thought he had plotted against his life.
So he summoned the court together and had sentence pronounced upon his son, that he should
be secretly shot. And once when the prince was riding forth to the chase, suspecting no evil,
the King's huntsman had to go with him, and when they were quite alone in the forest, the huntsman
looked so sorrowful that the prince said to him, "Dear huntsman, what ails you?"  The huntsman
said, "I cannot tell you, and yet I ought." Then the prince said, "Say openly what it is, I
will pardon you." "Alas!" said the huntsman, "I am to shoot you dead, the King has ordered
me to do it." Then the prince was shocked, and said, "Dear huntsman, let me live; there, I
give you my royal garments; give me your common ones in their stead." The huntsman said, "I
will willingly do that, indeed I should not have been able to shoot you." Then they exchanged
clothes, and the huntsman returned home; the prince, however, went further into the forest.
After a time three waggons of gold and precious stones came to the King for his youngest son,
which were sent by the three Kings who had slain their enemies with the prince's sword, and
maintained their people with his bread, and who wished to show their gratitude for it. The
old King then thought, "Can my son have been innocent?" and said to his people, "Would that
he were still alive, how it grieves me that I have suffered him to be killed!" "He still lives,"
said the huntsman, "I could not find it in my heart to carry out your command," and told the
King how it had happened. Then a stone fell from the King's heart, and he had it proclaimed
in every country that his son might return and be taken into favour again.

The princess, however, had a road made up to her palace which was quite bright and golden,
and told her people that whosoever came riding straight along it to her, would be the right
wooer and was to be admitted, and whoever rode by the side of it, was not the right one, and
was not to be admitted. As the time was now close at hand, the eldest thought he would hasten
to go to the King's daughter, and give himself out as her deliverer, and thus win her for his
bride, and the kingdom to boot. Therefore he rode forth, and when he arrived in front of the
palace, and saw the splendid golden road, he thought, it would be a sin and a shame if he were
to ride over that, and turned aside, and rode on the right side of it. But when he came to
the door, the servants told him that he was not the right man, and was to go away again. Soon
after this the second prince set out, and when he came to the golden road, and his horse had
put one foot on it, he thought, it would be a sin and a shame to tread a piece of it off, and
he turned aside and rode on the left side of it, and when he reached the door, the attendants
told him he was not the right one, and he was to go away again.  When at last the year had
entirely expired, the third son likewise wished to ride out of the forest to his beloved, and
with her forget his sorrows. So he set out and thought of her so incessantly, and wished to
be with her so much, that he never noticed the golden road at all. So his horse rode onwards
up the middle of it, and when he came to the door, it was opened and the princess received
him with joy, and said he was her deliverer, and lord of the kingdom, and their wedding was
celebrated with great rejoicing. When it was over she told him that his father invited him
to come to him, and had forgiven him. So he rode thither, and told him everything; how his
brothers had betrayed him, and how he had nevertheless kept silence. The old King wished to
punish them, but they had put to sea, and never came back as long as they lived.

98 Doctor Knowall

There was once on a time a poor peasant called Crabb, who drove with two oxen a load of wood
to the town, and sold it to a doctor for two thalers. When the money was being counted out
to him, it so happened that the doctor was sitting at table, and when the peasant saw how daintily
he ate and drank, his heart desired what he saw, and he would willingly have been a doctor
too. So he remained standing a while, and at length inquired if he too could not be a doctor.
"Oh, yes," said the doctor, "that is soon managed." "What must I do?" asked the peasant. "In
the first place buy thyself an A B C book of the kind which has a cock on the frontispiece:
in the second, turn thy cart and thy two oxen into money, and get thyself some clothes, and
whatsoever else pertains to medicine; thirdly, have a sign painted for thyself with the words,
"I am Doctor Knowall," and have that nailed up above thy house-door." The peasant did everything
that he had been told to do. When he had doctored people awhile, but not long, a rich and great
lord had some money stolen. Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such and such
a village, and must know what had become of the money. So the lord had the horses put in his
carriage, drove out to the village, and asked Crabb if he were Doctor Knowall? Yes, he was,
he said.  Then he was to go with him and bring back the stolen money. "Oh, yes, but Grethe,
my wife, must go too." The lord was willing and let both of them have a seat in the carriage,
and they all drove away together. When they came to the nobleman's castle, the table was spread,
and Crabb was told to sit down and eat. "Yes, but my wife, Grethe, too," said he, and he seated
himself with her at the table. And when the first servant came with a dish of delicate fare,
the peasant nudged his wife, and said, "Grethe, that was the first," meaning that was the servant
who brought the first dish. The servant, however, thought he intended by that to say, "That
is the first thief," and as he actually was so, he was terrified, and said to his comrade outside,
"The doctor knows all: we shall fare ill, he said I was the first." The second did not want
to go in at all, but was forced. So when he went in with his dish, the peasant nudged his wife,
and said, "Grethe, that is the second." This servant was just as much alarmed, and he got out.
The third did not fare better, for the peasant again said, "Grethe, that is the third." The
fourth had to carry in a dish that was covered, and the lord told the doctor that he was to
show his skill, and guess what was beneath the cover. The doctor looked at the dish, had no
idea what to say, and cried, "Ah, poor Crabb." When the lord heard that, he cried, "There!
he knows it, he knows who has the money!"

On this the servants looked terribly uneasy, and made a sign to the doctor that they wished
him to step outside for a moment. When therefore he went out, all four of them confessed to
him that they had stolen the money, and said that they would willingly restore it and give
him a heavy sum into the bargain, if he would not denounce them, for if he did they would be
hanged. They led him to the spot where the money was concealed. With this the doctor was satisfied,
and returned to the hall, sat down to the table, and said, "My lord, now will I search in my
book where the gold is hidden." The fifth servant, however, crept into the stove to hear if
the doctor knew still more. The Doctor, however, sat still and opened his A B C book, turned
the pages backwards and forwards, and looked for the cock. As he could not find it immediately
he said, "I know you are there, so you had better show yourself." Then the fellow in the stove
thought that the doctor meant him, and full of terror, sprang out, crying, "That man knows
everything!" Then Dr. Knowall showed the count where the money was, but did not say who had
stolen it, and received from both sides much money in reward, and became a renowned man.

99 The Spirit in the Bottle

There was once a poor woodcutter who toiled from early morning till late night.  When at last
he had laid by some money he said to his boy, "You are my only child, I will spend the money
which I have earned with the sweat of my brow on your education; if you learn some honest trade
you can support me in my old age, when my limbs have grown stiff and I am obliged to stay at
home." Then the boy went to a High School and learned diligently so that his masters praised
him, and he remained there a long time. When he had worked through two classes, but was still
not yet perfect in everything, the little pittance which the father had earned was all spent,
and the boy was obliged to return home to him. "Ah," said the father, sorrowfully, "I can give
you no more, and in these hard times I cannot earn a farthing more than will suffice for our
daily bread." "Dear father," answered the son, "don't trouble yourself about it, if it is God's
will, it will turn to my advantage I shall soon accustom myself to it." When the father wanted
to go into the forest to earn money by helping to pile and stack wood ans also chop it, the
son said, "I will go with you and help you." "Nay, my son," said the father, "that would be
hard for you; you are not accustomed to rough work, and will not be able to bear it, besides
I have only one axe and no money left wherewith to buy another." "Just go to the neighbour,"
answered the son, "he will lend you his axe until I have earned one for myself." The father
then borrowed an axe of the neighbour, and next morning at break of day they went out into
the forest together. The son helped his father and was quite merry and brisk about it. But
when the sun was right over their heads, the father said, "We will rest, and have our dinner,
and then we shall work as well again." The son took his bread in his hands, and said, "Just
you rest, father, I am not tired; I will walk up and down a little in the forest, and look
for birds' nests." "Oh, you fool," said the father, "why should you want to run about there?
Afterwards you will be tired, and no longer able to raise your arm; stay here, and sit down
beside me." The son, however, went into the forest, ate his bread, was very merry and peered
in among the green branches to see if he could discover a bird's nest anywhere. So he went
up and down to see if he could find a bird's nest until at last he came to a great dangerous-looking
oak, which certainly was already many hundred years old, and which five men could not have
spanned. He stood still and looked at it, and thought, "Many a bird must have built its nest
in that." Then all at once it seemed to him that he heard a voice. He listened and became aware
that someone was crying in a very smothered voice, "Let me out, let me out!" He looked around,
but could discover nothing; nevertheless, he fancied that the voice came out of the ground.
Then he cried, "Where art thou?" The voice answered, "I am down here amongst the roots of the
oak-tree. Let me out! Let me out!" The scholar began to loosen the earth under the tree, and
search among the roots, until at last he found a glass bottle in a little hollow. He lifted
it up and held it against the light, and then saw a creature shaped like a frog, springing
up and down in it. "Let me out! Let me out!" it cried anew, and the scholar thinking no evil,
drew the cork out of the bottle. Immediately a spirit ascended from it, and began to grow,
and grew so fast that in a very few moments he stood before the scholar, a terrible fellow
as big as half the tree by which he was standing. "Knowest thou," he cried in an awful voice,
"what thy wages are for having let me out?" "No," replied the scholar fearlessly, "how should
I know that?" "Then I will tell thee," cried the spirit; "I must strangle thee for it." "Thou
shouldst have told me that sooner," said the scholar, "for I should then have left thee shut
up, but my head shall stand fast for all thou canst do; more persons than one must be consulted
about that."  "More persons here, more persons there," said the spirit. "Thou shalt have the
wages thou hast earned. Dost thou think that I was shut up there for such a long time as a
favour. No, it was a punishment for me. I am the mighty Mercurius.  Whoso releases me, him
must I strangle." "Softly," answered the scholar, "not so fast. I must first know that thou
really wert shut up in that little bottle, and that thou art the right spirit. If, indeed,
thou canst get in again, I will believe and then thou mayst do as thou wilt with me." The spirit
said haughtily, "that is a very trifling feat," drew himself together, and made himself as
small and slender as he had been at first, so that he crept through the same opening, and right
through the neck of the bottle in again. Scarcely was he within than the scholar thrust the
cork he had drawn back into the bottle, and threw it among the roots of the oak into its old
place, and the spirit was betrayed.

And now the scolar was about to return to his father, but the spirit cried very piteously,
"Ah, do let me out! ah, do let me out!" "No," answered the scholar, "not a second time! He
who has once tried to take my life shall not be set free by me, now that I have caught him
again." "If thou wilt set me free," said the spirit, "I will give thee so much that thou wilt
have plenty all the days of thy life." "No," answered the boy, "thou wouldst cheat me as thou
didst the first time." "Thou art playing away with thy own good luck," said the spirit; "I
will do thee no harm but will reward thee richly." The scholar thought, "I will venture it,
perhaps he will keep his word, and anyhow he shall not get the better of me." Then he took
out the cork, and the spirit rose up from the bottle as he had done before, stretched himself
out and became as big as a giant. "Now thou shalt have thy reward," said he, and handed the
scholar a little bag just like a plaster, and said, "If thou spreadest one end of this over
a wound it will heal, and if thou rubbest steel or iron with the other end it will be changed
into silver." "I must just try that," said the scholar, and went to a tree, tore off the bark
with his axe, and rubbed it with one end of the plaster. It immediately closed together and
was healed. "Now, it is all right," he said to the spirit, "and we can part." The spirit thanked
him for his release, and the boy thanked the spirit for his present, and went back to his father.

"Where hast thou been racing about?" said the father; "why hast thou forgotten thy work? I
said at once that thou wouldst never get on with anything." "Be easy, father, I will make it
up." "Make it up indeed," said the father angrily, "there's no art in that." "Take care, father,
I will soon hew that tree there, so that it will split."  Then he took his plaster, rubbed
the axe with it, and dealt a mighty blow, but as the iron had changed into silver, the edge
turned; "Hollo, father, just look what a bad axe you've given me, it has become quite crooked."
The father was shocked and said, "Ah, what hast thou done? now I shall have to pay for that,
and have not the wherewithal, and that is all the good I have got by thy work." "Don't get
angry," said the son, "I will soon pay for the axe." "Oh, thou blockhead," cried the father,
"wherewith wilt thou pay for it? Thou hast nothing but what I give thee. These are students'
tricks that are sticking in thy head, but thou hast no idea of wood-cutting." After a while
the scholar said, "Father, I can really work no more, we had better take a holiday." "Eh, what!"
answered he, "Dost thou think I will sit with my hands lying in my lap like thee? I must go
on working, but thou mayst take thyself off home." "Father, I am here in this wood for the
first time, I don't know my way alone. Do go with me." As his anger had now abated, the father
at last let himself be persuaded and went home with him. Then he said to the son, "Go and sell
thy damaged axe, and see what thou canst get for it, and I must earn the difference, in order
to pay the neighbour." The son took the axe, and carried it into town to a goldsmith, who tested
it, laid it in the scales, and said, "It is worth four hundred thalers, I have not so much
as that by me." The son said, "Give me what thou hast, I will lend you the rest." The goldsmith
gave him three hundred thalers, and remained a hundred in his debt. The son thereupon went
home and said, "Father, I have got the money, go and ask the neighbour what he wants for the
axe." "I know that already," answered the old man, "one thaler, six groschen." "Then give him
him two thalers, twelve groschen, that is double and enough; see, I have money in plenty,"
and he gave the father a hundred thalers, and said, "You shall never know want, live as comfortably
as you like." "Good heavens!" said the father, "how hast thou come by these riches?" The scholar
then told how all had come to pass, and how he, trusting in his luck, had made such a good
hit. But with the money that was left, he went back to the High School and went on learning
more, and as he could heal all wounds with his plaster, he became the most famous doctor in
the whole world.

100 The Devil's Sooty Brother

A disbanded soldier had nothing to live on, and did not know how to get on. So he went out
into the forest and when he had walked for a short time, he met a little man who was, however,
the Devil. The little man said to him, "What ails you, you seem so very sorrowful?" Then the
soldier said, "I am hungry, but have no money." The Devil said, "If you will hire yourself
to me, and be my serving-man, you shall have enough for all your life? You shall serve me for
seven years, and after that you shall again be free. But one thing I must tell you, and that
is, you must not wash, comb, or trim yourself, or cut your hair or nails, or wipe the water
from your eyes." The soldier said, "All right, if there is no help for it," and went off with
the little man, who straightway led him down into hell.  Then he told him what he had to do.
He was to poke the fire under the kettles wherein the hell-broth was stewing, keep the house
clean, drive all the sweepings behind the doors, and see that everything was in order, but
if he once peeped into the kettles, it would go ill with him. The soldier said, "Good, I will
take care." And then the old Devil went out again on his wanderings, and the soldier entered
upon his new duties, made the fire, and swept the dirt well behind the doors, just as he had
been bidden. When the old Devil came back again, he looked to see if all had been done, appeared
satisfied, and went forth a second time. The soldier now took a good look on every side; the
kettles were standing all round hell with a mighty fire below them, and inside they were boiling
and sputtering. He would have given anything to look inside them, if the Devil had not so particularly
forbidden him: at last, he could no longer restrain himself, slightly raised the lid of the
first kettle, and peeped in, and there he saw his former corporal shut in. "Aha, old bird!"
said he, "Do I meet you here? You once had me in your power, now I have you," and he quickly
let the lid fall, poked the fire, and added a fresh log. After that, he went to the second
kettle, raised its lid also a little, and peeped in; his former ensign was in that. "Aha, old
bird, so I find you here! you once had me in your power, now I have you." He closed the lid
again, and fetched yet another log to make it really hot. Then he wanted to see who might be
sitting up in the third kettle it was actually be but a general. "Aha, old bird, do I meet
you here? Once you had me in your power, now I have you." And he fetched the bellows and made
hell-fire blaze right under him. So he did his work seven years in hell, did not wash, comb,
or trim himself, or cut his hair or nails, or wash the water out of his eyes, and the seven
years seemed so short to him that he thought he had only been half a year. Now when the time
had fully gone by, the Devil came and said, "Well Hans, what have you done?" "I poked the fire
under the kettles, and I have swept all the dirt well behind the doors."

"But you have peeped into the kettles as well; it is lucky for you that you added fresh logs
to them, or else your life would have been forfeited; now that your time is up, will you go
home again?" "Yes," said the soldier, "I should very much like to see what my father is doing
at home." The Devil said, "In order that you may receive the wages you have earned, go and
fill your knapsack full of the sweepings, and take it home with you. You must also go unwashed
and uncombed, with long hair on your head and beard, and with uncut nails and dim eyes, and
when you are asked whence you come, you must say, "From hell," and when you are asked who you
are, you are to say, "The Devil's sooty brother, and my King as well." The soldier held his
peace, and did as the Devil bade him, but he was not at all satisfied with his wages. Then
as soon as he was up in the forest again, he took his knapsack from his back, to empty it,
but on opening it, the sweepings had become pure gold. "I should never have expected that,"
said he, and was well pleased, and entered the town. The landlord was standing in front of
the inn, and when he saw the soldier approaching, he was terrified, because Hans looked so
horrible, worse than a scare-crow. He called to him and asked, "Whence comest thou?" "From
hell." "Who art thou?" "The Devil's sooty brother, and my King as well." Then the host would
not let him enter, but when Hans showed him the gold, he came and unlatched the door himself.
Hans then ordered the best room and attendance, ate, and drank his fill, but neither washed
nor combed himself as the Devil had bidden him, and at last lay down to sleep. But the knapsack
full of gold remained before the eyes of the landlord, and left him no peace, and during the
night he crept in and stole it away. Next morning, however, when Hans got up and wanted to
pay the landlord and travel further, behold his knapsack was gone! But he soon composed himself
and thought, "Thou hast been unfortunate from no fault of thine own," and straightway went
back again to hell, complained of his misfortune to the old Devil, and begged for his help.
The Devil said, "Seat yourself, I will wash, comb, and trim you, cut your hair and nails, and
wash your eyes for you," and when he had done with him, he gave him the knapsack back again
full of sweepings, and said, "Go and tell the landlord that he must return you your money,
or else I will come and fetch him, and he shall poke the fire in your place." Hans went up
and said to the landlord, "Thou hast stolen my money; if thou dost not return it, thou shalt
go down to hell in my place, and wilt look as horrible as I." Then the landlord gave him the
money, and more besides, only begging him to keep it secret, and Hans was now a rich man.

He set out on his way home to his father, bought himself a shabby smock-frock to wear, and
strolled about making music, for he had learned to do that while he was with the Devil in hell.
There was however, an old King in that country, before whom he had to play, and the King was
so delighted with his playing, that he promised him his eldest daughter in marriage. But when
she heard that she was to be married to a common fellow in a smock-frock, she said, "Rather
than do that, I would go into the deepest water." Then the King gave him the youngest, who
was quite willing to do it to please her father, and thus the Devil's sooty brother got the
King's daughter, and when the aged King died, the whole kingdom likewise.

101 Bearskin

THERE was once a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier, conducted himself bravely, and was
always the foremost when it rained bullets. So long as the war lasted, all went well, but when
peace was made, he received his dismissal, and the captain said he might go where he liked.
His parents were dead, and he had no longer a home, so he went to his brothers and begged them
to take him in, and keep him until war broke out again. The brothers, however, were hard-hearted
and said, "What can we do with thee? thou art of no use to us; go and make a living for thyself."
The soldier had nothing left but his gun; he took that on his shoulder, and went forth into
the world. He came to a wide heath, on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees;
under these he sat sorrowfully down, and began to think over his fate. "I have no money," thought
he, "I have learnt no trade but that of fighting, and now that they have made peace they don't
want me any longer; so I see beforehand that I shall have to starve." All at once he heard
a rustling, and when he looked round, a strange man stood before him, who wore a green coat
and looked right stately, but had a hideous cloven foot.  "I know already what thou art in
need of," said the man; "gold and possessions shall thou have, as much as thou canst make away
with do what thou wilt, but first I must know if thou art fearless, that I may not bestow my
money in vain." "A soldier and fear -- how can those two things go together?" he answered;
"thou canst put me to the proof." "Very well, then," answered the man, "look behind thee."
The soldier turned round, and saw a large bear, which came growling towards him. "Oho!" cried
the soldier, "I will tickle thy nose for thee, so that thou shalt soon lose thy fancy for growling,"
and he aimed at the bear and shot it through the muzzle; it fell down and never stirred again.
"I see quite well," said the stranger, "that thou art not wanting in courage, but there is
still another condition which thou wilt have to fulfil." "If it does not endanger my salvation,"
replied the soldier, who knew very well who was standing by him. "If it does, I'll have nothing
to do with it." "Thou wilt look to that for thyself," answered Greencoat; "thou shalt for the
next seven years neither wash thyself, nor comb thy beard, nor thy hair, nor cut thy nails,
nor say one paternoster. I will give thee a coat and a cloak, which during this time thou must
wear. If thou diest during these seven years, thou art mine; if thou remainest alive, thou
art free, and rich to boot, for all the rest of thy life." The soldier thought of the great
extremity in which he now found himself, and as he so often had gone to meet death, he resolved
to risk it now also, and agreed to the terms. The Devil took off his green coat, gave it to
the soldier, and said, "If thou hast this coat on thy back and puttest thy hand into the pocket,
thou wilt always find it full of money." Then he pulled the skin off the bear and said, "This
shall be thy cloak, and thy bed also, for thereon shalt thou sleep, and in no other bed shalt
thou lie, and because of this apparel shalt thou be called Bearskin." After this the Devil
vanished.

The soldier put the coat on, felt at once in the pocket, and found that the thing was really
true. Then he put on the bearskin and went forth into the world, and enjoyed himself, refraining
from nothing that did him good and his money harm.  During the first year his appearance was
passable, but during the second he began to look like a monster. His hair covered nearly the
whole of his face, his beard was like a piece of coarse felt, his fingers had claws, and his
face was so covered with dirt that if cress had been sown on it, it would have come up. Whosoever
saw him, ran away, but as he everywhere gave the poor money to pray that he might not die during
the seven years, and as he paid well for everything he still always found shelter. In the fourth
year, he entered an inn where the landlord would not receive him, and would not even let him
have a place in the stable, because he was afraid the horses would be scared. But as Bearskin
thrust his hand into his pocket and pulled out a handful of ducats, the host let himself be
persuaded and gave him a room in an outhouse. Bearskin was, however, obliged to promise not
to let himself be seen, lest the inn should get a bad name.

As Bearskin was sitting alone in the evening, and wishing from the bottom of his heart that
the seven years were over, he heard a loud lamenting in a neighboring room. He had a compassionate
heart, so he opened the door, and saw an old man weeping bitterly, and wringing his hands.
Bearskin went nearer, but the man sprang to his feet and tried to escape from him. At last
when the man perceived that Bearskin's voice was human he let himself be prevailed on, and
by kind words bearskin succeeded so far that the old man revealed the cause of his grief. 
His property had dwindled away by degrees, he and his daughters would have to starve, and he
was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper, and was to be put in prison. "If that is your
only trouble," said Bearskin, "I have plenty of money." He caused the innkeeper to be brought
thither, paid him and put a purse full of gold into the poor old man's pocket besides.

When the old man saw himself set free from all his troubles he did not know how to be grateful
enough. "Come with me," said he to Bearskin; "my daughters are all miracles of beauty, choose
one of them for thyself as a wife. When she hears what thou hast done for me, she will not
refuse thee. Thou dost in truth look a little strange, but she will soon put thee to rights
again." This pleased Bearskin well, and he went. When the eldest saw him she was so terribly
alarmed at his face that she screamed and ran away. The second stood still and looked at him
from head to foot, but then she said, "How can I accept a husband who no longer has a human
form? The shaven bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased me far better,
for at any rate it wore a hussar's dress and white gloves. If it were nothing but ugliness,
I might get used to that." The youngest, however, said, "Dear father, that must be a good man
to have helped you out of your trouble, so if you have promised him a bride for doing it, your
promise must be kept." It was a pity that Bearskin's face was covered with dirt and with hair,
for if not they might have seen how delighted he was when he heard these words. He took a ring
from his finger, broke it in two, and gave her one half, the other he kept for himself. He
wrote his name, however, on her half, and hers on his, and begged her to keep her piece carefully,
and then he took his leave and said, "I must still wander about for three years, and if I do
not return then, thou art free, for I shall be dead. But pray to God to preserve my life."

The poor betrothed bride dressed herself entirely in black, and when she thought of her future
bridegroom, tears came into her eyes. Nothing but contempt and mockery fell to her lot from
her sisters. "Take care," said the eldest, "if thou givest him thy hand, he will strike his
claws into it." "Beware!" said the second.  "Bears like sweet things, and if he takes a fancy
to thee, he will eat thee up."  "Thou must always do as he likes," began the elder again, "or
else he will growl."  And the second continued, "But the wedding will be a merry one, for bears
dance well." The bride was silent, and did not let them vex her. Bearskin, however, travelled
about the world from one place to another, did good where he was able, and gave generously
to the poor that they might pray for him.

At length, as the last day of the seven years dawned, he went once more out on to the heath,
and seated himself beneath the circle of trees. It was not long before the wind whistled, and
the Devil stood before him and looked angrily at him; then he threw Bearskin his old coat,
and asked for his own green one back.  "We have not got so far as that yet," answered Bearskin,
"thou must first make me clean." Whether the Devil liked it or not, he was forced to fetch
water, and wash Bearskin, comb his hair, and cut his nails. After this, he looked like a brave
soldier, and was much handsomer than he had ever been before.

When the Devil had gone away, Bearskin was quite lighthearted. He went into the town, put on
a magnificent velvet coat, seated himself in a carriage drawn by four white horses, and drove
to his bride's house. No one recognized him, the father took him for a distinguished general,
and led him into the room where his daughters were sitting. He was forced to place himself
between the two eldest, they helped him to wine, gave him the best pieces of meat, and thought
that in all the world they had never seen a handsomer man. The bride, however, sat opposite
to him in her black dress, and never raised her eyes, nor spoke a word.  When at length he
asked the father if he would give him one of his daughters to wife, the two eldest jumped up,
ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses, for each of them fancied she was the chosen
one. The stranger, as soon as he was alone with his bride, brought out his half of the ring,
and threw it in a glass of wine which he reached across the table to her. She took the wine,
but when she had drunk it, and found the half ring lying at the bottom, her heart began to
beat. She got the other half, which she wore on a ribbon round her neck, joined them, and saw
that the two pieces fitted exactly together. Then said he, "I am thy betrothed bridegroom,
whom thou sawest as Bearskin, but through God's grace I have again received my human form,
and have once more become clean." He went up to her, embraced her, and gave her a kiss. In
the meantime the two sisters came back in full dress, and when they saw that the handsome man
had fallen to the share of the youngest, and heard that he was Bearskin, they ran out full
of anger and rage. One of them drowned herself in the well, the other hanged herself on a tree.
In the evening, some one knocked at the door, and when the bridegroom opened it, it was the
Devil in his green coat, who said, "Seest thou, I have now got two souls in the place of thy one!"

102 The Willow-Wren and the Bear

ONCE in summer-time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest, and the bear heard a
bird singing so beautifully that he said, "Brother wolf, what bird is it that sings so well?"
"That is the King of birds," said the wolf, "before whom we must bow down." It was, however,
in reality the willow-wren (Zaunkönig). "If that's the case," said the bear, "I should very
much like to see his royal palace; come, take me thither." "That is not done quite as you seem
to think," said the wolf; "you must wait until the Queen comes." Soon afterwards, the Queen
arrived with some food in her beak, and the lord King came too, and they began to feed their
young ones. The bear would have liked to go at once, but the wolf held him back by the sleeve,
and said, "No, you must wait until the lord and lady Queen have gone away again." So they observed
the hole in which was the nest, and trotted away. The bear, however, could not rest until he
had seen the royal palace, and when a short time had passed, again went to it. The King and
Queen had just flown out, so he peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying in it. "Is that
the royal palace?" cried the bear; "it is a wretched palace, and you are not King's children,
you are disreputable children!" When the young wrens heard that, they were frightfully angry,
and screamed, "No, that we are not! Our parents are honest people! Bear, thou wilt have to
pay for that!"

The bear and the wolf grew uneasy, and turned back and went into their holes.  The young willow-wrens,
however, continued to cry and scream, and when their parents again brought food they said,
"We will not so much as touch one fly's leg, no, not if we were dying of hunger, until you
have settled whether we are respectable children or not; the bear has been here and has insulted
us!" Then the old King said, "Be easy, he shall be punished," and he at once flew with the
Queen to the bear's cave, and called in, "Old Growler, why hast thou insulted my children?
Thou shalt suffer for it we will punish thee by a bloody war." Thus war was announced to the
Bear, and all four-footed animals were summoned to take part in it, oxen, asses, cows, deer,
and every other animal the earth contained.  And the willow-wren summoned everything which
flew in the air, not only birds, large and small, but midges, and hornets, bees and flies had
to come.

When the time came for the war to begin, the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who was
the enemy's commander-in-chief. The gnat, who was the most crafty, flew into the forest where
the enemy was assembled, and hid herself beneath a leaf of the tree where the watchword was
to be given. There stood the bear, and he called the fox before him and said, "Fox, thou art
the most cunning of all animals, thou shalt be general and lead us." "Good," said the fox,
"but what signal shall we agree upon?" When I lift my tail up quite high, all is going well,
and you must charge; but if I let it hang down, run away as fast as you can." When the gnat
had heard that, she flew away again, and revealed everything, with the greatest minuteness,
to the willow-wren.  When day broke, and the battle was to begin, all the four-footed animals
came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled. The willow-wren also came flying
through the air with his army with such a humming, and whirring, and swarming that every one
was uneasy and afraid, and on both sides they advanced against each other. But the willow-wren
sent down the hornet, with orders to get beneath the fox's tail, and sting with all his might.
When the fox felt the first sting, he started so that he drew up one leg, with the pain, but
he bore it, and still kept his tail high in the air; at the second sting, he was forced to
put it down for a moment; at the third, he could hold out no longer, and screamed out and put
his tail between his legs. When the animals saw that, they thought all was lost, and began
to fly, each into his hole and the birds had won the battle.

Then the King and Queen flew home to their children and cried, "Children, rejoice, eat and
drink to your heart's content, we have won the battle!" But the young wrens said, "We will
not eat yet, the bear must come to the nest, and beg for pardon and say that we are honorable
children, before we will do that." Then the willow-wren flew to the bear's hole and cried,
"Growler, thou art to come to the nest to my children, and beg their pardon, or else every
rib of thy body shall be broken." So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear, and begged
their pardon. And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat down together and ate
and drank, and made merry till quite late into the night.

103 Sweet Porridge

THERE was a poor but good little girl who lived alone with her mother, and they no longer had
anything to eat. So the child went into the forest, and there an aged woman met her who was
aware of her sorrow, and presented her with a little pot, which when she said, "Cook, little
pot, cook," would cook good, sweet porridge, and when she said, "Stop, little pot," it ceased
to cook. The girl took the pot home to her mother, and now they were freed from their poverty
and hunger, and ate sweet porridge as often as they chose. Once on a time when the girl had
gone out, her mother said, "Cook, little pot, cook." And it did cook and she ate till she was
satisfied, and then she wanted the pot to stop cooking, but did not know the word. So it went
on cooking and the porridge rose over the edge, and still it cooked on until the kitchen and
whole house were full, and then the next house, and then the whole street, just as if it wanted
to satisfy the hunger of the whole world, and there was the greatest distress, but no one knew
how to stop it. At last when only one single house remained, the child came home and just said,
"Stop, little pot," and it stopped and gave up cooking, and whosoever wished to return to the
town had to eat his way back.

104 Wise Folks

ONE day a peasant took his good hazel-stick out of the corner and said to his wife, "Trina,
I am going across country, and shall not return for three days. If during that time the cattle-dealer
should happen to call and want to buy our three cows, you may strike a bargain at once, but
not unless you can get two hundred thalers for them; nothing less, do you hear?" "For heaven's
sake just go in peace," answered the woman, "I will manage that." "You, indeed," said the man.
"You once fell on your head when you were a little child, and that affects you even now; but
let me tell you this, if you do anything foolish, I will make your back black and blue, and
not with paint, I assure you, but with the stick which I have in my hand, and the colouring
shall last a whole year, you may rely on that."  And having said that, the man went on his way.

Next morning the cattle-dealer came, and the woman had no need to say many words to him. When
he had seen the cows and heard the price, he said, "I am quite willing to give that, honestly
speaking, they are worth it. I will take the beasts away with me at once." He unfastened their
chains and drove them out of the byre, but just as he was going out of the yard-door, the woman
clutched him by the sleeve and said, "You must give me the two hundred thalers now, or I cannot
let the cows go." "True," answered the man, "but I have forgotten to buckle on my money-belt.
Have no fear, however, you shall have security for my paying. I will take two cows with me
and leave one, and then you will have a good pledge." The woman saw the force of this, and
let the man go away with the cows, and thought to herself, "How pleased Hans will be when he
finds how cleverly I have managed it!" The peasant came home on the third day as he had said
he would, and at once inquired if the cows were sold? "Yes, indeed, dear Hans," answered the
woman, "and as you said, for two hundred thalers. They are scarcely worth so much, but the
man took them without making any objection." "Where is the money?" asked the peasant. "Oh,
I have not got the money," replied the woman; "he had happened to forget his money-belt, but
he will soon bring it, and he left good security behind him." "What kind of security?"  asked
the man. "One of the three cows, which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two.
I have managed very cunningly, for I have kept the smallest, which eats the least." The man
was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to give her the beating he had promised
her. Suddenly he let the stick fail and said, "You are the stupidest goose that ever waddled
on God's earth, but I am sorry for you. I will go out into the highways and wait for three
days to see if I find anyone who is still stupider than you. If I succeed in doing so, you
shall go scot-free, but if I do not find him, you shall receive your well-deserved reward without
any discount."

He went out into the great highways, sat down on a stone, and waited for what would happen.
Then he saw a peasant's waggon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the
middle of it, instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her, or walking
near the oxen and leading them.  The man thought to himself, "That is certainly one of the
kind I am in search of," and jumped up and ran backwards and forwards in front of the waggon
like one who is not very wise. "What do you want, my friend?" said the woman to him; "I don't
know you, where do you come from?" "I have fallen down from heaven," replied the man, "and
don't know how to get back again, couldn't you drive me up?" "No," said the woman, "I don't
know the way, but if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband, who has been
there these three years is. You must have seen him?" "Oh, yes, I have seen him, but all men
can't get on well. He keeps sheep, and the sheep give him a great deal to do. They run up the
mountains and lose their way in the wilderness, and he has to run after them and drive them
together again. His clothes are all torn to pieces too, and will soon fall off his body. There
is no tailor there, for Saint Peter won't let any of them in, as you know by the story." "Who
would have thought it?" cried the woman, "I tell you what, I will fetch his Sunday coat which
is still hanging at home in the cupboard, he can wear that and look respectable. You will be
so kind as to take it with you." "That won't do very well," answered the peasant; "people are
not allowed to take clothes into Heaven, they are taken away from one at the gate."  "Then
hark you," said the woman, "I sold my fine wheat yesterday and got a good lot of money for
it, I will send that to him. If you hide the purse in your pocket, no one will know that you
have it." "If you can't manage it any other way," said the peasant, "I will do you that favor."
"Just sit still where you are," said she, "and I will drive home and fetch the purse, I shall
soon be back again. I do not sit down on the bundle of straw, but stand up in the waggon, because
it makes it lighter for the cattle." She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought, "That
woman has a perfect talent for folly, if she really brings the money, my wife may think herself
fortunate, for she will get no beating." It was not long before she came in a great hurry with
the money, and with her own hands put it in his pocket. Before she went away, she thanked him
again a thousand times for his courtesy.

When the woman got home again, she found her son who had come in from the field. She told him
what unlooked-for things had befallen her, and then added, "I am truly delighted at having
found an opportunity of sending something to my poor husband. Who would ever have imagined
that he could be suffering for want of anything up in heaven?" The son was full of astonishment.
"Mother," said he, "it is not every day that a man comes from Heaven in this way, I will go
out immediately, and see if he is still to be found; he must tell me what it is like up there,
and how the work is done." He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed. He found the peasant
who was sitting under a willow-tree, and was just going to count the money in the purse. "Have
you seen the man who has fallen down from Heaven?" cried the youth to him. "Yes," answered
the peasant, "he has set out on his way back there, and has gone up that hill, from whence
it will be rather nearer; you could still catch him up, if you were to ride fast." "Alas,"
said the youth, "I have been doing tiring work all day, and the ride here has completely worn
me out; you know the man, be so kind as to get on my horse, and go and persuade him to come
here." "Aha!" thought the peasant, "here is another who has no wick in his lamp!" "Why should
I not do you this favor?"  said he, and mounted the horse and rode off in a quick trot. The
youth remained sitting there till night fell, but the peasant never came back. "The man from
Heaven must certainly have been in a great hurry, and would not turn back," thought he, "and
the peasant has no doubt given him the horse to take to my father." He went home and told his
mother what had happened, and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have
to be always running about.  "Thou hast done well," answered she, "thy legs are younger than
his, and thou canst go on foot."

When the peasant got home, he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which he had as a
pledge, and then went to his wife and said, "Trina, as your luck would have it, I have found
two who are still sillier fools than you; this time you escape without a beating, I will store
it up for another occasion." Then he lighted his pipe, sat down in his grandfather's chair,
and said, "It was a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of
money into the bargain, for two lean cows. If stupidity always brought in as much as that,
I would be quite willing to hold it in honor." So thought the peasant, but you no doubt prefer
the simple folks.

105 Stories about Snakes

First Story.

There was once a little child whose mother gave her every afternoon a small bowl of milk and
bread, and the child seated herself in the yard with it. When she began to eat however, a snake
came creeping out of a crevice in the wall, dipped its little head in the dish, and ate with
her. The child had pleasure in this, and when she was sitting there with her little dish and
the snake did not come at once, she cried,

 "Snake, snake, come swiftly
 Hither come, thou tiny thing,

 Thou shalt have thy crumbs of bread,
 Thou shalt refresh thyself with milk."

Then the snake came in haste, and enjoyed its food. Moreover it showed gratitude, for it brought
the child all kinds of pretty things from its hidden treasures, bright stones, pearls, and
golden playthings. The snake, however, only drank the milk, and left the bread-crumbs alone.
Then one day the child took its little spoon and struck the snake gently on its head with it,
and said, "Eat the bread-crumbs as well, little thing." The mother, who was standing in the
kitchen, heard the child talking to someone, and when she saw that she was striking a snake
with her spoon, ran out with a log of wood, and killed the good little creature.

From that time forth, a change came over the child. As long as the snake had eaten with her,
she had grown tall and strong, but now she lost her pretty rosy cheeks and wasted away. It
was not long before the funeral bird began to cry in the night, and the redbreast to collect
little branches and leaves for a funeral garland, and soon afterwards the child lay on her bier.

Second Story.

An orphan child was sitting on the town walls spinning, when she saw a snake coming out of
a hole low down in the wall. Swiftly she spread out beside this one of the blue silk handkerchiefs
which snakes have such a strong liking for, and which are the only things they will creep on.
As soon as the snake saw it, it went back, then returned, bringing with it a small golden crown,
laid it on the handkerchief, and then went away again. The girl took up the crown, it glittered
and was of delicate golden filagree work. It was not long before the snake came back for the
second time, but when it no longer saw the crown, it crept up to the wall, and in its grief
smote its little head against it as long as it had strength to do so, until at last it lay
there dead. If the girl had but left the crown where it was, the snake would certainly have
brought still more of its treasures out of the hole.

Third Story.

A snake cries, "Huhu, huhu." A child says, "Come out." The snake comes out, then the child
inquires about her little sister: "Hast thou not seen little Red-stockings?" The snake says,
"No." "Neither have I." "Then I am like you.  Huhu, huhu, huhu."

106 The Poor Miller's Boy and the Cat

In a certain mill lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child, and three apprentices
served under him. As they had been with him several years, he one day said to them, "I am old,
and want to sit in the chimney-corner, go out, and whichsoever of you brings me the best horse
home, to him will I give the mill, and in return for it he shall take care of me till my death."
The third of the boys was, however, the drudge, who was looked on as foolish by the others;
they begrudged the mill to him, and afterwards he would not have it. Then all three went out
together, and when they came to the village, the two said to stupid Hans, "Thou mayst just
as well stay here, as long as thou livest thou wilt never get a horse." Hans, however, went
with them, and when it was night they came to a cave in which they lay down to sleep. The two
sharp ones waited until Hans had fallen asleep, then they got up, and went away leaving him
where he was.  And they thought they had done a very clever thing, but it was certain to turn
out ill for them. When the sun arose, and Hans woke up, he was lying in a deep cavern. He looked
around on every side and exclaimed, "Oh, heavens, where am I?" Then he got up and clambered
out of the cave, went into the forest, and thought, "Here I am quite alone and deserted, how
shall I obtain a horse now?" Whilst he was thus walking full of thought, he met a small tabby-cat
which said quite kindly, "Hans, where are you going?" "Alas, thou canst not help me." "I well
know your desire," said the cat. "You wish to have a beautiful horse. Come with me, and be
my faithful servant for seven years long, and then I will give you one more beautiful than
any you have ever seen in your whole life." "Well, this is a wonderful cat!" thought Hans,
"but I am determined to see if she is telling the truth." So she took him with her into her
enchanted castle, where there were nothing but cats who were her servants. They leapt nimbly
upstairs and downstairs, and were merry and happy. In the evening when they sat down to dinner,
three of them had to make music. One played the bassoon, the other the fiddle, and the third
put the trumpet to his lips, and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly could. When they
had dined, the table was carried away, and the cat said, "Now, Hans, come and dance with me."
"No," said he, "I won't dance with a pussy cat. I have never done that yet." "Then take him
to bed," said she to the cats. So one of them lighted him to his bed-room, one pulled his shoes
off, one his stockings, and at last one of them blew out the candle. Next morning they returned
and helped him out of bed, one put his stockings on for him, one tied his garters, one brought
his shoes, one washed him, and one dried his face with her tail. "That feels very soft!" said
Hans. He, however, had to serve the cat, and chop some wood every day, and to do that, he had
an axe of silver, and the wedge and saw were of silver and the mallet of copper. So he chopped
the wood small; stayed there in the house and had good meat and drink, but never saw anyone
but the tabby-cat and her servants. Once she said to him, "Go and mow my meadow, and dry the
grass," and gave him a scythe of silver, and a whetstone of gold, but bade him deliver them
up again carefully. So Hans went thither, and did what he was bidden, and when he had finished
the work, he carried the scythe, whetstone, and hay to the house, and asked if it was not yet
time for her to give him his reward. "No," said the cat, "you must first do something more
for me of the same kind. There is timber of silver, carpenter's axe, square, and everything
that is needful, all of silver, with these build me a small house." Then Hans built the small
house, and said that he had now done everything, and still he had no horse. Nevertheless the
seven years had gone by with him as if they were six months. The cat asked him if he would
like to see her horses? "Yes," said Hans. Then she opened the door of the small house, and
when she had opened it, there stood twelve horses, such horses, so bright and shining, that
his heart rejoiced at the sight of them. And now she gave him to eat and drink, and said, "Go
home, I will not give thee thy horse away with thee; but in three days' time I will follow
thee and bring it." So Hans set out, and she showed him the way to the mill. She had, however,
never once given him a new coat, and he had been obliged to keep on his dirty old smock-frock,
which he had brought with him, and which during the seven years had everywhere become too small
for him. When he reached home, the two other apprentices were there again as well, and each
of them certainly had brought a horse with him, but one of them was a blind one, and the other
lame. They asked Hans where his horse was. "It will follow me in three days' time." Then they
laughed and said, "Indeed, stupid Hans, where wilt thou get a horse?" "It will be a fine one!"
Hans went into the parlour, but the miller said he should not sit down to table, for he was
so ragged and torn, that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in. So they gave
him a mouthful of food outside, and at night, when they went to rest, the two others would
not let him have a bed, and at last he was forced to creep into the goose-house, and lie down
on a little hard straw. In the morning when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach
came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them! and a servant
brought a seventh as well, which was for the poor miller's boy. And a magnificent princess
alighted from the coach and went into the mill, and this princess was the little tabby-cat
whom poor Hans had served for seven years. She asked the miller where the miller's boy and
drudge was? Then the miller said, "We cannot have him here in the mill, for he is so ragged;
he is lying in the goose-house." Then the King's daughter said that they were to bring him
immediately. So they brought him out, and he had to hold his little smock-frock together to
cover himself. The servants unpacked splendid garments, and washed him and dressed him, and
when that was done, no King could have looked more handsome. Then the maiden desired to see
the horses which the other apprentices had brought home with them, and one of them was blind
and the other lame. So she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse, and when the miller
saw it, he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard. "And that is for
the third miller's boy," said she.  "Then he must have the mill," said the miller, but the
King's daughter said that the horse was there, and that he was to keep his mill as well, and
took her faithful Hans and set him in the coach, and drove away with him. They first drove
to the little house which he had built with the silver tools, and behold it was a great castle,
and everything inside it was of silver and gold; and then she married him, and he was rich,
so rich that he had enough for all the rest of his life. After this, let no one ever say that
anyone who is silly can never become a person of importance.

107 The Two Travellers

Hill and vale do not come together, but the children of men do, good and bad. In this way a
shoemaker and a tailor once met with each other in their travels. The tailor was a handsome
little fellow who was always merry and full of enjoyment.  He saw the shoemaker coming towards
him from the other side, and as he observed by his bag what kind of a trade he plied, he sang
a little mocking song to him,

 "Sew me the seam,
 Draw me the thread,
 Spread it over with pitch,
 Knock the nail on the head."

The shoemaker, however, could not endure a joke; he pulled a face as if he had drunk vinegar,
and made a gesture as if he were about to seize the tailor by the throat. But the little fellow
began to laugh, reached him his bottle, and said, "No harm was meant, take a drink, and swallow
your anger down." The shoemaker took a very hearty drink, and the storm on his face began to
clear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I spoke civilly to you; one speaks
well after much drinking, but not after much thirst. Shall we travel together?" "All right,"
answered the tailor, "if only it suits you to go into a big town where there is no lack of
work." "That is just where I want to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a small nest there is
nothing to earn, and in the country, people like to go barefoot." They travelled therefore
onwards together, and always set one foot before the other like a weasel in the snow.

Both of them had time enough, but little to bite and to break. When they reached a town they
went about and paid their respects to the tradesmen, and because the tailor looked so lively
and merry, and had such pretty red cheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and when luck
was good the master's daughters gave him a kiss beneath the porch, as well. When he again fell
in with the shoemaker, the tailor had always the most in his bundle. The ill-tempered shoemaker
made a wry face, and thought, "The greater the rascal the more the luck," but the tailor began
to laugh and to sing, and shared all he got with his comrade. If a couple of pence jingled
in his pockets, he ordered good cheer, and thumped the table in his joy till the glasses danced,
and it was lightly come, lightly go, with him.

When they had travelled for some time, they came to a great forest through which passed the
road to the capital. Two foot-paths, however, led through it, one of which was a seven days'
journey, and the other only two, but neither of the travellers knew which way was the short
one. They seated themselves beneath an oak-tree, and took counsel together how they should
forecast, and for how many days they should provide themselves with bread. The shoemaker said,
"One must look before one leaps, I will take with me bread for a week."  "What!" said the tailor,
"drag bread for seven days on one's back like a beast of burden, and not be able to look about.
I shall trust in God, and not trouble myself about anything! The money I have in my pocket
is as good in summer as in winter, but in hot weather bread gets dry, and mouldy into the bargain;
even my coat does not go as far as it might. Besides, why should we not find the right way?
Bread for two days, and that's enough." Each, therefore, bought his own bread, and then they
tried their luck in the forest.

It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook murmured, no bird sang, and
through the thickly-leaved branches no sunbeam forced its way.  The shoemaker spoke never a
word, the heavy bread weighed down his back until the perspiration streamed down his cross
and gloomy face. The tailor, however, was quite merry, he jumped about, whistled on a leaf,
or sang a song, and thought to himself, "God in heaven must be pleased to see me so happy."

This lasted two days, but on the third the forest would not come to an end, and the tailor
had eaten up all his bread, so after all his heart sank down a yard deeper. In the meantime
he did not lose courage, but relied on God and on his luck. On the third day he lay down in
the evening hungry under a tree, and rose again next morning hungry still; so also passed the
fourth day, and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree and devoured his dinner,
the tailor was only a looker-on. If he begged for a little piece of bread the other laughed
mockingly, and said, "Thou hast always been so merry, now thou canst try for once what it is
to be sad: the birds which sing too early in the morning are struck by the hawk in the evening,"
In short he was pitiless. But on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no longer stand up,
and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness; his cheeks were white, and his eyes red.
Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give thee a bit of bread to-day, but in return for
it, I will put out thy right eye." The unhappy tailor who still wished to save his life, could
not do it in any other way; he wept once more with both eyes, and then held them out, and the
shoemaker, who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye with a sharp knife. The tailor called
to remembrance what his mother had formerly said to him when he had been eating secretly in
the pantry. "Eat what one can, and suffer what one must." When he had consumed his dearly-bought
bread, he got on his legs again, forgot his misery and comforted himself with the thought that
he could always see enough with one eye. But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again,
and gnawed him almost to the heart. In the evening he fell down by a tree, and on the seventh
morning he could not raise himself up for faintness, and death was close at hand. Then said
the shoemaker, "I will show mercy and give thee bread once more, but thou shalt not have it
for nothing, I shall put out thy other eye for it." And now the tailor felt how thoughtless
his life had been, prayed to God for forgiveness, and said, "Do what thou wilt, I will bear
what I must, but remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively, and that an
hour will come when the evil deed which thou hast done to me, and which I have not deserved
of thee, will be requited. When times were good with me, I shared what I had with thee. My
trade is of that kind that each stitch must always be exactly like the other. If I no longer
have my eyes and can sew no more I must go a-begging. At any rate do not leave me here alone
when I am blind, or I shall die of hunger." The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out
of his heart, took the knife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,
held out a stick to him, and drew him on behind him.

When the sun went down, they got out of the forest, and before them in the open country stood
the gallows. Thither the shoemaker guided the blind tailor, and then left him alone and went
his way. Weariness, pain, and hunger made the wretched man fall asleep, and he slept the whole
night. When day dawned he awoke, but knew not where he lay. Two poor sinners were hanging on
the gallows, and a crow sat on the head of each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged
began to speak, and said, "Brother, art thou awake?" "Yes, I am awake," answered the second.
"Then I will tell thee something," said the first; "the dew which this night has fallen down
over us from the gallows, gives every one who washes himself with it his eyes again. If blind
people did but know this, how many would regain their sight who do not believe that to be possible."

When the tailor heard that, he took his pocket-handkerchief, pressed it on the grass, and when
it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his eyes with it.  Immediately was fulfilled what
the man on the gallows had said, and a couple of healthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was
not long before the tailor saw the sun rise behind the mountains; in the plain before him lay
the great royal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers, and the golden balls and
crosses which were on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish every leaf on the trees,
saw the birds which flew past, and the midges which danced in the air. He took a needle out
of his pocket, and as he could thread it as well as ever he had done, his heart danced with
delight. He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him, and said
his morning prayer. He did not forget also to pray for the poor sinners who were hanging there
swinging against each other in the wind like the pendulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle
on his back and soon forgot the pain of heart he had endured, and went on his way singing and
whistling.

The first thing he met was a brown foal running about the fields at large. He caught it by
the mane, and wanted to spring on it and ride into the town. The foal, however, begged to be
set free. "I am still too young," it said, "even a light tailor such as thou art would break
my back in two let me go till I have grown strong. A time may perhaps come when I may reward
thee for it." "Run off," said the tailor, "I see thou art still a giddy thing." He gave it
a touch with a switch over its back, whereupon it kicked up its hind legs for joy, leapt over
hedges and ditches, and galloped away into the open country.

But the little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun to be sure fills my
eyes," said he, "but the bread does not fill my mouth. The first thing that comes across me
and is even half edible will have to suffer for it." In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly
over the meadow towards him. "Halt, halt!"  cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I
don't know if thou art good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great choice. I must
cut thy head off, and roast thee." "Don't do that," replied the stork; "I am a sacred bird
which brings mankind great profit, and no one does me an injury. Leave me my life, and I may
do thee good in some other way." "Well, be off, Cousin Longlegs," said the tailor. The stork
rose up, let its long legs hang down, and flew gently away.

"What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last, "my hunger grows greater
and greater, and my stomach more and more empty. Whatsoever comes in my way now is lost." At
this moment he saw a couple of young ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him.
"You come just at the right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of them and was about to
wring its neck.  On this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds, began to scream loudly,
and swam to him with open beak, and begged him urgently to spare her dear children. "Canst
thou not imagine," said she, "how thy mother would mourn if any one wanted to carry thee off,
and give thee thy finishing stroke?" "Only be quiet," said the good-tempered tailor, "thou
shalt keep thy children," and put the prisoner back into the water.

When he turned round, he was standing in front of an old tree which was partly hollow, and
saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. "There I shall at once find the reward of my good
deed," said the tailor, "the honey will refresh me." But the Queen-bee came out, threatened
him and said, "If thou touchest my people, and destroyest my nest, our stings shall pierce
thy skin like ten thousand red-hot needles. But if thou wilt leave us in peace and go thy way,
we will do thee a service for it another time."

The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. "Three dishes empty and nothing
on the fourth is a bad dinner!" He dragged himself therefore with his starved-out stomach into
the town, and as it was just striking twelve, all was ready-cooked for him in the inn, and
he was able to sit down at once to dinner.  When he was satisfied he said, "Now I will get
to work." He went round the town, sought a master, and soon found a good situation. As, however,
he had thoroughly learnt his trade, it was not long before he became famous, and every one
wanted to have his new coat made by the little tailor, whose importance increased daily. "I
can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve every day." At last the King
appointed him court-tailor.

But how things do happen in the world! On the very same day his former comrade the shoemaker
also became court-shoemaker. When the latter caught sight of the tailor, and saw that he had
once more two healthy eyes, his conscience troubled him. "Before he takes revenge on me," thought
he to himself, "I must dig a pit for him." He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into
it himself. In the evening when work was over and it had grown dusk, he stole to the King and
said, "Lord King, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boasted that he will get the gold
crown back again which was lost in ancient times." "That would please me very much," said the
King, and he caused the tailor to be brought before him next morning, and ordered him to get
the crown back again, or to leave the town for ever. "Oho!" thought the tailor, "a rogue gives
more than he has got. If the surly King wants me to do what can be done by no one, I will not
wait till morning, but will go out of the town at once, to-day." He packed up his bundle, therefore,
but when he was without the gate he could not help being sorry to give up his good fortune,
and turn his back on the town in which all had gone so well with him. He came to the pond where
he had made the acquaintance of the ducks; at that very moment the old one whose young ones
he had spared, was sitting there by the shore, pluming herself with her beak. She knew him
again instantly, and asked why he was hanging his head so? "Thou wilt not be surprised when
thou hearest what has befallen me," replied the tailor, and told her his fate. "If that be
all," said the duck, "we can help thee. The crown fell into the water, and lies down below
at the bottom; we will soon bring it up again for thee. In the meantime just spread out thy
handkerchief on the bank." She dived down with her twelve young ones, and in five minutes she
was up again and sat with the crown resting on her wings, and the twelve young ones were swimming
round about and had put their beaks under it, and were helping to carry it. They swam to the
shore and put the crown on the handkerchief. No one can imagine how magnificent the crown was;
when the sun shone on it, it gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied his
handkerchief together by the four corners, and carried it to the King, who was full of joy,
and put a gold chain round the tailor's neck.

When the shoemaker saw that one stroke had failed, he contrived a second, and went to the King
and said, "Lord King, the tailor has become insolent again; he boasts that he will copy in
wax the whole of the royal palace, with everything that pertains to it, loose or fast, inside
and out." The King sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole of the royal
palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable or immovable, within and without, and
if he did not succeed in doing this, or if so much as one nail on the wall were wanting, he
should be imprisoned for his whole life under ground.

The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse! No one can endure that?" and threw his bundle
on his back, and went forth. When he came to the hollow tree, he sat down and hung his head.
The bees came flying out, and the Queen-bee asked him if he had a stiff neck, since he held
his head so awry? "Alas, no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me down,"
and he told her what the King had demanded of him. The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves,
and the Queen-bee said, "Just go home again, but come back to-morrow at this time, and bring
a large sheet with you, and then all will be well." So he turned back again, but the bees flew
to the royal palace and straight into it through the open windows, crept round about into every
corner, and inspected everything most carefully. Then they hurried back and modelled the palace
in wax with such rapidity that any one looking on would have thought it was growing before
his eyes. By the evening all was ready, and when the tailor came next morning, the whole of
the splendid building was there, and not one nail in the wall or tile of the roof was wanting,
and it was delicate withal, and white as snow, and smelt sweet as honey. The tailor wrapped
it carefully in his cloth and took it to the King, who could not admire it enough, placed it
in his largest hall, and in return for it presented the tailor with a large stone house.

The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time to the King and said,
"Lord King, it has come to the tailor's ears that no water will spring up in the court-yard
of the castle, and he has boasted that it shall rise up in the midst of the court-yard to a
man's height and be clear as crystal." Then the King ordered the tailor to be brought before
him and said, "If a stream of water does not rise in my court-yard by to-morrow as thou hast
promised, the executioner shall in that very place make thee shorter by the head." The poor
tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out to the gate, and because this time
it was a matter of life and death to him, tears rolled down his face. Whilst he was thus going
forth full of sorrow, the foal to which he had formerly given its liberty, and which had now
become a beautiful chestnut horse, came leaping towards him. "The time has come," it said to
the tailor, "when I can repay thee for thy good deed. I know already what is needful to thee,
but thou shalt soon have help; get on me, my back can carry two such as thou." The tailor's
courage came back to him; he jumped up in one bound, and the horse went full speed into the
town, and right up to the court-yard of the castle. It galloped as quick as lightning thrice
round it, and at the third time it fell violently down. At the same instant, however, there
was a terrific clap of thunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the court-yard sprang
like a cannon-ball into the air, and over the castle, and directly after it a jet of water
rose as high as a man on horseback, and the water was as pure as crystal, and the sunbeams
began to dance on it. When the King saw that he arose in amazement, and went and embraced the
tailor in the sight of all men.

But good fortune did not last long. The King had daughters in plenty, one still prettier than
the other, but he had no son. So the malicious shoemaker betook himself for the fourth time
to the King, and said, "Lord King, the tailor has not given up his arrogance. He has now boasted
that if he liked, he could cause a son to be brought to the Lord king through the air." The
King commanded the tailor to be summoned, and said, "If thou causest a son to be brought to
me within nine days, thou shalt have my eldest daughter to wife." "The reward is indeed great,"
thought the little tailor; "one would willingly do something for it, but the cherries grow
too high for me, if I climb for them, the bough will break beneath me, and I shall fall."

He went home, seated himself cross-legged on his work-table, and thought over what was to be
done. "It can't be managed," cried he at last, "I will go away; after all I can't live in peace
here." He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to the meadow, he perceived
his old friend the stork, who was walking backwards and forwards like a philosopher. Sometimes
he stood still, took a frog into close consideration, and at length swallowed it down. The
stork came to him and greeted him. "I see," he began, "that thou hast thy pack on thy back.
Why art thou leaving the town?" The tailor told him what the King had required of him, and
how he could not perform it, and lamented his misfortune.  "Don't let thy hair grow grey about
that," said the stork, "I will help thee out of thy difficulty. For a long time now, I have
carried the children in swaddling-clothes into the town, so for once in a way I can fetch a
little prince out of the well. Go home and be easy. In nine days from this time repair to the
royal palace, and there will I come." The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time
was at the castle. It was not long before the stork came flying thither and tapped at the window.
The tailor opened it, and cousin Longlegs came carefully in, and walked with solemn steps over
the smooth marble pavement. He had, moreover, a baby in his beak that was as lovely as an angel,
and stretched out its little hands to the Queen. The stork laid it in her lap, and she caressed
it and kissed it, and was beside herself with delight. Before the stork flew away, he took
his travelling bag off his back and handed it over to the Queen. In it there were little paper
parcels with colored sweetmeats, and they were divided amongst the little princesses. The eldest,
however, had none of them, but got the merry tailor for a husband. "It seems to me," said he,
"just as if I had won the highest prize. My mother was if right after all, she always said
that whoever trusts in God and only has good luck, can never fail."

The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced at the wedding festival,
after which he was commanded to quit the town for ever. The road to the forest led him to the
gallows. Worn out with anger, rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he
had closed his eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from the heads of the men
who were hanging there, and pecked his eyes out. In his madness he ran into the forest and
must have died there of hunger, for no one has ever either seen him again or heard of him.

108 Hans the Hedgehog

THERE was once a countryman who had money and land in plenty, but how rich soever he was, one
thing was still wanting in his happiness he had no children. Often when he went into the town
with the other peasants they mocked him and asked why he had no children. At last he became
angry, and when he got home he said, "I will have a child, even if it be a hedgehog." Then
his wife had a child, that was a hedgehog in the upper part of his body, and a boy in the lower,
and when she saw the child, she was terrified, and said, "See, there thou hast brought ill-luck
on us." Then said the man, "What can be done now? The boy must be christened, but we shall
not be able to get a godfather for him." The woman said, "And we cannot call him anything else
but Hans the Hedgehog."

When he was christened, the parson said, "He cannot go into any ordinary bed because of his
spikes." So a little straw was put behind the stove, and Hans the Hedgehog was laid on it.
His mother could not suckle him, for he would have pricked her with his quills. So he lay there
behind the stove for eight years, and his father was tired of him and thought, "If he would
but die!" He did not die, however, but remained lying there. Now it happened that there was
a fair in the town, and the peasant was about to go to it, and asked his wife what he should
bring back with him for her. "A little meat and a couple of white rolls which are wanted for
the house," said she. Then he asked the servant, and she wanted a pair of slippers and some
stockings with clocks. At last he said also, "And what wilt thou have, Hans my Hedgehog?" "Dear
father," he said, "do bring me bagpipes." When, therefore, the father came home again, he gave
his wife what he had bought for her; meat and white rolls, and then he gave the maid the slippers,
and the stockings with clocks; and, lastly, he went behind the stove, and gave Hans the Hedgehog
the bagpipes. And when Hans the Hedgehog had the bagpipes, he said, "Dear father, do go to
the forge and get the cock shod, and then I will ride away, and never come back again." On
this, the father was delighted to think that he was going to get rid of him, and had the cock
shod for him, and when it was done, Hans the Hedgehog got on it, and rode away, but took swine
and asses with him which he intended to keep in the forest. When they got there he made the
cock fly on to a high tree with him, and there he sat for many a long year, and watched his
asses and swine until the herd was quite large, and his father knew nothing about him. While
he was sitting in the tree, however, he played his bagpipes, and made music which was very
beautiful.  Once a King came travelling by who had lost his way and heard the music. He was
astonished at it, and sent his servant forth to look all round and see from whence this music
came. He spied about, but saw nothing but a little animal sitting up aloft on the tree, which
looked like a cock with a hedgehog on it which made this music. Then the King told the servant
he was to ask why he sat there, and if he knew the road which led to his kingdom. So Hans the
Hedgehog descended from the tree, and said he would show the way if the King would write a
bond and promise him whatever he first met in the royal courtyard as soon as he arrived at
home. Then the King thought, "I can easily do that, Hans the Hedgehog understands nothing,
and I can write what I like." So the King took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he
had done it, Hans the Hedgehog showed him the way, and he got safely home. But his daughter,
when she saw him from afar, was so overjoyed that she ran to meet him, and kissed him. Then
he remembered Hans the Hedgehog, and told her what had happened, and that he had been forced
to promise whatsoever first met him when he got home, to a very strange animal which sat on
a cock as if it were a horse, and made beautiful music, but that instead of writing that he
should have what he wanted, he had written that he should not have it. Thereupon the princess
was glad, and said he had done well, for she never would have gone away with the Hedgehog.

Hans the Hedgehog, however, looked after his asses and pigs, and was always merry and sat on
the tree and played his bagpipes.

Now it came to pass that another King came journeying by with his attendants and runners, and
he also had lost his way, and did not know how to get home again because the forest was so
large. He likewise heard the beautiful music from a distance, and asked his runner what that
could be, and told him to go and see.  Then the runner went under the tree, and saw the cock
sitting at the top of it, and Hans the Hedgehog on the cock. The runner asked him what he was
about up there? "I am keeping my asses and my pigs; but what is your desire?" The messenger
said that they had lost their way, and could not get back into their own kingdom, and asked
if he would not show them the way. Then Hans the Hedgehog got down the tree with the cock,
and told the aged King that he would show him the way, if he would give him for his own whatsoever
first met him in front of his royal palace. The King said, "Yes," and wrote a promise to Hans
the Hedgehog that he should have this. That done, Hans rode on before him on the cock, and
pointed out the way, and the King reached his kingdom again in safety. When he got to the courtyard,
there were great rejoicings. Now he had an only daughter who was very beautiful; she ran to
meet him, threw her arms round his neck, and was delighted to have her old father back again.
She asked him where in the world he had been so long. So he told her how he had lost his way,
and had very nearly not come back at all, but that as he was travelling through a great forest,
a creature, half hedgehog, half man, who was sitting astride a cock in a high tree, and making
music, had shown him the way and helped him to get out, but that in return he had promised
him whatsoever first met him in the royal court-yard, and how that was she herself, which made
him unhappy now. But on this she promised that, for love of her father, she would willingly
go with this Hans if he came.

Hans the Hedgehog, however, took care of his pigs, and the pigs multiplied until they became
so many in number that the whole forest was filled with them. Then Hans the Hedgehog resolved
not to live in the forest any longer, and sent word to his father to have every stye in the
village emptied, for he was coming with such a great herd that all might kill who wished to
do so. When his father heard that, he was troubled, for he thought Hans the Hedgehog had died
long ago.  Hans the Hedgehog, however, seated himself on the cock, and drove the pigs before
him into the village, and ordered the slaughter to begin. Ha! but there was a killing and a
chopping that might have been heard two miles off! After this Hans the Hedgehog said, "Father,
let me have the cock shod once more at the forge, and then I will ride away and never come
back as long as I live." Then the father had the cock shod once more, and was pleased that
Hans the Hedgehog would never return again.

Hans the Hedgehog rode away to the first kingdom. There the King had commanded that whosoever
came mounted on a cock and had bagpipes with him should be shot at, cut down, or stabbed by
everyone, so that he might not enter the palace. When, therefore, Hans the Hedgehog came riding
thither, they all pressed forward against him with their pikes, but he spurred the cock and
it flew up over the gate in front of the King's window and lighted there, and Hans cried that
the King must give him what he had promised, or he would take both his life and his daughter's.
Then the King began to speak his daughter fair, and to beg her to go away with Hans in order
to save her own life and her father's. So she dressed herself in white, and her father gave
her a carriage with six horses and magnificent attendants together with gold and possessions.
She seated herself in the carriage, and placed Hans the Hedgehog beside her with the cock and
the bagpipes, and then they took leave and drove away, and the King thought he should never
see her again. He was however, deceived in his expectation, for when they were at a short distance
from the town, Hans the Hedgehog took her pretty clothes off, and pierced her with his hedgehog's
skin until she bled all over. "That is the reward of your falseness," said he, "go your way,
I will not have you!" and on that he chased her home again, and she was disgraced for the rest
of her life.

Hans the Hedgehog, however, rode on further on the cock, with his bagpipes, to the dominions
of the second King to whom he had shown the way. This one, however, had arranged that if any
one resembling Hans the Hedgehog should come, they were to present arms, give him safe conduct,
cry long life to him, and lead him to the royal palace.

But when the King's daughter saw him she was terrified, for he looked quite too strange. She
remembered however, that she could not change her mind, for she had given her promise to her
father. So Hans the Hedgehog was welcomed by her, and married to her, and had to go with her
to the royal table, and she seated herself by his side, and they ate and drank. When the evening
came and they wanted to go to sleep, she was afraid of his quills, but he told her she was
not to fear, for no harm would befall her, and he told the old King that he was to appoint
four men to watch by the door of the chamber, and light a great fire, and when he entered the
room and was about to get into bed, he would creep out of his hedgehog's skin and leave it
lying there by the bedside, and that the men were to run nimbly to it, throw it in the fire,
and stay by it until it was consumed. When the clock struck eleven, he went into the chamber,
stripped off the hedgehog's skin, and left it lying by the bed. Then came the men and fetched
it swiftly, and threw it in the fire; and when the fire had consumed it, he was delivered,
and lay there in bed in human form, but he was coal-black as if he had been burnt. The King
sent for his physician who washed him with precious salves, and anointed him, and he became
white, and was a handsome young man. When the King's daughter saw that she was glad, and the
next morning they arose joyfully, ate and drank, and then the marriage was properly solemnized,
and Hans the Hedgehog received the kingdom from the aged King.

When several years had passed he went with his wife to his father, and said that he was his
son. The father, however, declared he had no son he had never had but one, and he had been
born like a hedgehog with spikes, and had gone forth into the world. Then Hans made himself
known, and the old father rejoiced and went with him to his kingdom.

 My tale is done,
 And away it has run
 To little August's house.

109 The Shroud

There was once a mother who had a little boy of seven years old, who was so handsome and lovable
that no one could look at him without liking him, and she herself worshipped him above everything
in the world. Now it so happened that he suddenly became ill, and God took him to himself;
and for this the mother could not be comforted, and wept both day and night. But soon afterwards,
when the child had been buried, it appeared by night in the places where it had sat and played
during its life, and if the mother wept, it wept also, and when morning came it disappeared.
As, however, the mother would not stop crying, it came one night, in the little white shroud
in which it had been laid in its coffin, and with its wreath of flowers round its head, and
stood on the bed at her feet, and said, "Oh, mother, do stop crying, or I shall never fall
asleep in my coffin, for my shroud will not dry because of all thy tears, which fall upon it."
The mother was afraid when she heard that, and wept no more. The next night the child came
again, and held a little light in its hand, and said, "Look, mother, my shroud is nearly dry,
and I can rest in my grave." Then the mother gave her sorrow into God's keeping, and bore it
quietly and patiently, and the child came no more, but slept in its little bed beneath the earth.

110 The Jew Among Thorns

There was once a rich man, who had a servant who served him diligently and honestly: He was
every morning the first out of bed, and the last to go to rest at night; and, whenever there
was a difficult job to be done, which nobody cared to undertake, he was always the first to
set himself to it. Moreover, he never complained, but was contented with everything, and always
merry.

When a year was ended, his master gave him no wages, for he said to himself, "That is the cleverest
way; for I shall save something, and he will not go away, but stay quietly in my service."
The servant said nothing, but did his work the second year as he had done it the first; and
when at the end of this, likewise, he received no wages, he made himself happy, and still stayed
on.

When the third year also was past, the master considered, put his hand in his pocket, but pulled
nothing out. Then at last the servant said, "Master, for three years I have served you honestly,
be so good as to give me what I ought to have, for I wish to leave, and look about me a little
more in the world."

"Yes, my good fellow," answered the old miser; "you have served me industriously, and, therefore,
you shall be cheerfully rewarded;" And he put his hand into his pocket, but counted out only
three farthings, saying, "There, you have a farthing for each year; that is large and liberal
pay, such as you would have received from few masters."

The honest servant, who understood little about money, put his fortune into his pocket, and
thought, "Ah! now that I have my purse full, why need I trouble and plague myself any longer
with hard work!" So on he went, up hill and down dale; and sang and jumped to his heart's content.
Now it came to pass that as he was going by a thicket a little man stepped out, and called
to him, "Whither away, merry brother? I see you do not carry many cares." "Why should I be
sad?"  answered the servant; "I have enough; three years' wages are jingling in my pocket."
"How much is your treasure?" the dwarf asked him. "How much? Three farthings sterling, all
told." "Look here," said the dwarf, "I am a poor needy man, give me your three farthings; I
can work no longer, but you are young, and can easily earn your bread."

And as the servant had a good heart, and felt pity for the old man, he gave him the three farthings,
saying, "Take them in the name of Heaven, I shall not be any the worse for it."

Then the little man said, "As I see you have a good heart I grant you three wishes, one for
each farthing, they shall all be fulfilled."

"Aha?" said the servant, "you are one of those who can work wonders! Well, then, if it is to
be so, I wish, first, for a gun, which shall hit everything that I aim at; secondly, for a
fiddle, which when I play on it, shall compel all who hear it to dance; thirdly, that if I
ask a favor of any one he shall not be able to refuse it."

"All that shall you have," said the dwarf; and put his hand into the bush, and only think,
there lay a fiddle and gun, all ready, just as if they had been ordered.  These he gave to
the servant, and then said to him, "Whatever you may ask at any time, no man in the world shall
be able to deny you."

"Heart alive! What can one desire more?" said the servant to himself, and went merrily onwards.
Soon afterwards he met a Jew with a long goat's-beard, who was standing listening to the song
of a bird which was sitting up at the top of a tree. "Good heavens," he was exclaiming, "that
such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice! If it were but mine! If only
someone would sprinkle some salt upon its tail!"

"If that is all," said the servant, "the bird shall soon be down here;" And taking aim he pulled
the trigger, and down fell the bird into the thorn-bushes. "Go, you rogue," he said to the
Jew, "and fetch the bird out for yourself!"

"Oh!" said the Jew, "leave out the rogue, my master, and I will do it at once. I will get the
bird out for myself, as you really have hit it." Then he lay down on the ground, and began
to crawl into the thicket.

When he was fast among the thorns, the good servant's humor so tempted him that he took up
his fiddle and began to play. In a moment the Jew's legs began to move, and to jump into the
air, and the more the servant fiddled the better went the dance. But the thorns tore his shabby
coat from him, combed his beard, and pricked and plucked him all over the body. "Oh dear,"
cried the Jew, "what do I want with your fiddling? Leave the fiddle alone, master; I do not
want to dance."

But the servant did not listen to him, and thought, "You have fleeced people often enough,
now the thorn-bushes shall do the same to you;" and he began to play over again, so that the
Jew had to jump higher than ever, and scraps of his coat were left hanging on the thorns. "Oh,
woe's me! cried the Jew; I will give the gentleman whatsoever he asks if only he leaves off
fiddling a purse full of gold." "If you are so liberal," said the servant, "I will stop my
music; but this I must say to your credit, that you dance to it so well that it is quite an
art;" and having taken the purse he went his way.

The Jew stood still and watched the servant quietly until he was far off and out of sight,
and then he screamed out with all his might, "You miserable musician, you beer-house fiddler!
wait till I catch you alone, I will hunt you till the soles of your shoes fall off! You ragamuffin!
just put five farthings in your mouth, and then you may be worth three halfpence!" and went
on abusing him as fast as he could speak. As soon as he had refreshed himself a little in this
way, and got his breath again, he ran into the town to the justice.

"My lord judge," he said, "I have come to make a complaint; see how a rascal has robbed and
ill-treated me on the public highway! a stone on the ground might pity me; my clothes all torn,
my body pricked and scratched, my little all gone with my purse, good ducats, each piece better
than the last; for God's sake let the man be thrown into prison!"

"Was it a soldier," said the judge, "who cut you thus with his sabre?" "Nothing of the sort!"
said the Jew; "it was no sword that he had, but a gun hanging at his back, and a fiddle at
his neck; the wretch may easily be known."

So the judge sent his people out after the man, and they found the good servant, who had been
going quite slowly along, and they found, too, the purse with the money upon him. As soon as
he was taken before the judge he said, "I did not touch the Jew, nor take his money; he gave
it to me of his own free will, that I might leave off fiddling because he could not bear my
music." "Heaven defend us!" cried the Jew, "his lies are as thick as flies upon the wall."

But the judge also did not believe his tale, and said, "This is a bad defence, no Jew would
do that." And because he had committed robbery on the public highway, he sentenced the good
servant to be hanged. As he was being led away the Jew again screamed after him, "You vagabond!
you dog of a fiddler!  now you are going to receive your well-earned reward!" The servant walked
quietly with the hangman up the ladder, but upon the last step he turned round and said to
the judge, "Grant me just one request before I die."

"Yes, if you do not ask your life," said the judge. "I do not ask for life," answered the servant,
"but as a last favor let me play once more upon my fiddle." The Jew raised a great cry of "Murder!
murder! for goodness' sake do not allow it! Do not allow it!" But the judge said, "Why should
I not let him have this short pleasure? it has been granted to him, and he shall have it."
However, he could not have refused on account of the gift which had been bestowed on the servant.

Then the Jew cried, "Oh! woe's me! tie me, tie me fast!" while the good servant took his fiddle
from his neck, and made ready. As he gave the first scrape, they all began to quiver and shake,
the judge, his clerk, and the hangman and his men, and the cord fell out of the hand of the
one who was going to tie the Jew fast. At the second scrape all raised their legs, and the
hangman let go his hold of the good servant, and made himself ready to dance. At the third
scrape they all leaped up and began to dance; the judge and the Jew being the best at jumping.
Soon all who had gathered in the market-place out of curiosity were dancing with them; old
and young, fat and lean, one with another. The dogs, likewise, which had run there got up on
their hind legs and capered about; and the longer he played, the higher sprang the dancers,
so that they knocked against each other's heads, and began to shriek terribly.

At length the judge cried, quite out of breath, "I will give you your life if you will only
stop fiddling." The good servant thereupon had compassion, took his fiddle and hung it round
his neck again, and stepped down the ladder. Then he went up to the Jew, who was lying upon
the ground panting for breath, and said, "You rascal, now confess, whence you got the money,
or I will take my fiddle and begin to play again." "I stole it, I stole it!" cried he; "but
you have honestly earned it." So the judge had the Jew taken to the gallows and hanged as a thief.

111 The Skilful Huntsman

THERE was once a young fellow who had learnt the trade of locksmith, and told his father he
would now go out into the world and seek his fortune. "Very well," said the father, "I am quite
content with that," and gave him some money for his journey. So he travelled about and looked
for work. After a time he resolved not to follow the trade of locksmith any more, for he no
longer liked it, but he took a fancy for hunting. Then there met him in his rambles a huntsman
dressed in green, who asked whence he came and whither he was going? The youth said he was
a locksmith's apprentice, but that the trade no longer pleased him, and he had a liking for
huntsmanship, would he teach it to him? "Oh, yes," said the huntsman, "if thou wilt go with
me." Then the young fellow went with him, bound himself to him for some years, and learnt the
art of hunting. After this he wished to try his luck elsewhere, and the huntsman gave him nothing
in the way of payment but an air-gun, which had, however, this property, that it hit its mark
without fail whenever he shot with it. Then he set out and found himself in a very large forest,
which he could not get to the end of in one day. When evening came he seated himself in a high
tree in order to escape from the wild beasts. Towards midnight, it seemed to him as if a tiny
little light glimmered in the distance. Then he looked down through the branches towards it,
and kept well in his mind where it was.  But in the first place he took off his hat and threw
it down in the direction of the light, so that he might go to the hat as a mark when he had
descended. Then he got down and went to his hat, put it on again and went straight forwards.
The farther he went, the larger the light grew, and when he got close to it he saw that it
was an enormous fire, and that three giants were sitting by it, who had an ox on the spit,
and were roasting it. Presently one of them said, "I must just taste if the meat will soon
be fit to eat," and pulled a piece off, and was about to put it in his mouth when the huntsman
shot it out of his hand. "Well, really," said the giant, "if the wind has not blown the bit
out of my hand!" and helped himself to another.  But when he was just about to bite into it,
the huntsman again shot it away from him. On this the giant gave the one who was sitting next
him a box on the ear, and cried angrily, "Why art thou snatching my piece away from me?" "I
have not snatched it away," said the other, "a sharpshooter must have shot it away from thee."
The giant took another piece, but could not, however, keep it in his hand, for the huntsman
shot it out. Then the giant said, "That must be a good shot to shoot the bit out of one's very
mouth, such an one would be useful to us." And he cried aloud, "Come here, thou sharpshooter,
seat thyself at the fire beside us and eat thy fill, we will not hurt thee; but if thou wilt
not come, and we have to bring thee by force, thou art a lost man!" On this the youth went
up to them and told them he was a skilled huntsman, and that whatever he aimed at with his
gun, he was certain to hit. Then they said if he would go with them he should be well treated,
and they told him that outside the forest there was a great lake, behind which stood a tower,
and in the tower was imprisoned a lovely princess, whom they wished very much to carry off.
"Yes," said he, "I will soon get her for you."  Then they added, "But there is still something
else, there is a tiny little dog, which begins to bark directly any one goes near, and as soon
as it barks every one in the royal palace wakens up, and for this reason we cannot get there;
canst thou undertake to shoot it dead?" "Yes," said he, "that will be a little bit of fun for
me." After this he got into a boat and rowed over the lake, and as soon as he landed, the little
dog came running out, and was about to bark, but the huntsman took his air-gun and shot it
dead. When the giants saw that, they rejoiced, and thought they already had the King's daughter
safe, but the huntsman wished first to see how matters stood, and told them that they must
stay outside until he called them. Then he went into the castle, and all was perfectly quiet
within, and every one was asleep. When he opened the door of the first room, a sword was hanging
on the wall which was made of pure silver, and there was a golden star on it, and the name
of the King, and on a table near it lay a sealed letter which he broke open, and inside it
was written that whosoever had the sword could kill everything which opposed him. So he took
the sword from the wall, hung it at his side and went onwards: then he entered the room where
the King's daughter was lying sleeping, and she was so beautiful that he stood still and, holding
his breath, looked at her. He thought to himself, "How can I give an innocent maiden into the
power of the wild giants, who have evil in their minds?" He looked about further, and under
the bed stood a pair of slippers, on the right one was her father's name with a star, and on
the left her own name with a star. She wore also a great neck-kerchief of silk embroidered
with gold, and on the right side was her father's name, and on the left her own, all in golden
letters. Then the huntsman took a pair of scissors and cut the right corner off, and put it
in his knapsack, and then he also took the right slipper with the King's name, and thrust that
in. Now the maiden still lay sleeping, and she was quite sewn into her night-dress, and he
cut a morsel from this also, and thrust it in with the rest, but he did all without touching
her. Then he went forth and left her lying asleep undisturbed, and when he came to the gate
again, the giants were still standing outside waiting for him, and expecting that he was bringing
the princess. But he cried to them that they were to come in, for the maiden was already in
their power, that he could not open the gate to them, but there was a hole through which they
must creep. Then the first approached, and the huntsman wound the giant's hair round his hand,
pulled the head in, and cut it off at one stroke with his sword, and then drew the rest of
him in. He called to the second and cut his head off likewise, and then he killed the third
also, and he was well pleased that he had freed the beautiful maiden from her enemies, and
he cut out their tongues and put them in his knapsack. Then thought he, "I will go home to
my father and let him see what I have already done, and afterwards I will travel about the
world; the luck which God is pleased to grant me will easily find me."

But when the King in the castle awoke, he saw the three giants lying there dead.  So he went
into the sleeping-room of his daughter, awoke her, and asked who could have killed the giants?
Then said she, "Dear father, I know not, I have been asleep." But when she arose and would
have put on her slippers, the right one was gone, and when she looked at her neck-kerchief
it was cut, and the right corner was missing, and when she looked at her night-dress a piece
was cut out of it. The King summoned his whole court together, soldiers and every one else
who was there, and asked who had set his daughter at liberty, and killed the giants? Now it
happened that he had a captain, who was one-eyed and a hideous man, and he said that he had
done it. Then the old King said that as he had accomplished this, he should marry his daughter.
But the maiden said, "Rather than marry him, dear father, I will go away into the world as
far as my legs can carry me." But the King said that if she would not marry him she should
take off her royal garments and wear peasant's clothing, and go forth, and that she should
go to a potter, and begin a trade in earthen vessels. So she put off her royal apparel, and
went to a potter and borrowed crockery enough for a stall, and she promised him also that if
she had sold it by the evening, she would pay for it. Then the King said she was to seat herself
in a corner with it and sell it, and he arranged with some peasants to drive over it with their
carts, so that everything should be broken into a thousand pieces. When therefore the King's
daughter had placed her stall in the street, by came the carts, and broke all she had into
tiny fragments. She began to weep and said, "Alas, how shall I ever pay for the pots now?"
The King had, however, wished by this to force her to marry the captain; but instead of that,
she again went to the potter, and asked him if he would lend to her once more. He said, "No,"
she must first pay for the things she had already had. Then she went to her father and cried
and lamented, and said she would go forth into the world. Then said he, "I will have a little
hut built for thee in the forest outside, and in it thou shalt stay all thy life long and cook
for every one, but thou shalt take no money for it." When the hut was ready, a sign was hung
on the door whereon was written, "To-day given, to-morrow sold."  There she remained a long
time, and it was rumored about the world that a maiden was there who cooked without asking
for payment, and that this was set forth on a sign outside her door. The huntsman heard it
likewise, and thought to himself, "That would suit thee. Thou art poor, and hast no money."
So he took his air-gun and his knapsack, wherein all the things which he had formerly carried
away with him from the castle as tokens of his truthfulness were still lying, and went into
the forest, and found the hut with the sign, "To-day given, to-morrow sold." He had put on
the sword with which he had cut off the heads of the three giants, and thus entered the hut,
and ordered something to eat to be given to him.  He was charmed with the beautiful maiden,
who was indeed as lovely as any picture. She asked him whence he came and whither he was going,
and he said, "I am roaming about the world." Then she asked him where he had got the sword,
for that truly her father's name was on it. He asked her if she were the King's daughter. "Yes,"
answered she. "With this sword," said he, "did I cut off the heads of three giants." And he
took their tongues out of his knapsack in proof. Then he also showed her the slipper, and the
corner of the neck-kerchief, and the bit of the night-dress. Hereupon she was overjoyed, and
said that he was the one who had delivered her. On this they went together to the old King,
and fetched him to the hut, and she led him into her room, and told him that the huntsman was
the man who had really set her free from the giants. And when the aged King saw all the proofs
of this, he could no longer doubt, and said that he was very glad he knew how everything had
happened, and that the huntsman should have her to wife, on which the maiden was glad at heart.
Then she dressed the huntsman as if he were a foreign lord, and the King ordered a feast to
be prepared. When they went to table, the captain sat on the left side of the King's daughter,
but the huntsman was on the right, and the captain thought he was a foreign lord who had come
on a visit. When they had eaten and drunk, the old King said to the captain that he would set
before him something which he must guess. "Supposing any one said that he had killed the three
giants and he were asked where the giants' tongues were, and he were forced to go and look,
and there were none in their heads, how could that happen?" The captain said, "Then they cannot
have had any." "Not so," said the King. "Every animal has a tongue," and then he likewise asked
what any one would deserve who made such an answer? The captain replied, "He ought to be torn
in pieces." Then the King said he had pronounced his own sentence, and the captain was put
in prison and then torn in four pieces; but the King's daughter was married to the huntsman.
After this he brought his father and mother, and they lived with their son in happiness, and
after the death of the old King he received the kingdom.

112 The Flail From Heaven

A countryman was once going out to plough with a pair of oxen. When he got to the field, both
the animals' horns began to grow, and went on growing, and when he wanted to go home they were
so big that the oxen could not get through the gateway for them. By good luck a butcher came
by just then, and he delivered them over to him, and made the bargain in this way, that he
should take the butcher a measure of turnip-seed, and then the butcher was to count him out
a Brabant thaler for every seed. I call that well sold! The peasant now went home, and carried
the measure of turnip-seed to him on his back. On the way, however, he lost one seed out of
the bag. The butcher paid him justly as agreed on, and if the peasant had not lost the seed,
he would have had one thaler the more. In the meantime, when he went on his way back, the seed
had grown into a tree which reached up to the sky. Then thought the peasant, "As thou hast
the chance, thou must just see what the angels are doing up there above, and for once have
them before thine eyes." So he climbed up, and saw that the angels above were threshing oats,
and he looked on. While he was thus watching them, he observed that the tree on which he was
standing, was beginning to totter; he peeped down, and saw that someone was just going to cut
it down. "If I were to fall down from hence it would be a bad thing," thought he, and in his
necessity he did not know how to save himself better than by taking the chaff of the oats which
lay there in heaps, and twisting a rope of it. He likewise snatched a hoe and a flail which
were lying about in heaven, and let himself down by the rope.  But he came down on the earth
exactly in the middle of a deep, deep hole. So it was a real piece of luck that he had brought
the hoe, for he hoed himself a flight of steps with it, and mounted up, and took the flail
with him as a token of his truth, so that no one could have any doubt of his story.

113 The Two Kings' Children

There was once on a time a King who had a little boy of whom it had been foretold that he should
be killed by a stag when he was sixteen years of age, and when he had reached that age the
huntsmen once went hunting with him. In the forest, the King's son was separated from the others,
and all at once he saw a great stag which he wanted to shoot, but could not hit. At length
he chased the stag so far that they were quite out of the forest, and then suddenly a great
tall man was standing there instead of the stag, and said, "It is well that I have thee. I
have already ruined six pairs of glass skates with running after thee, and have not been able
to get thee." Then he took the King's son with him, and dragged him through a great lake to
a great palace, and then he had to sit down to table with him and eat something. When they
had eaten something together the King said, "I have three daughters, thou must keep watch over
the eldest for one night, from nine in the evening till six in the morning, and every time
the clock strikes, I will come myself and call, and if thou then givest me no answer, to-morrow
morning thou shall be put to death, but if thou always givest me an answer, thou shalt have
her to wife."

When the young folks went to the bed-room there stood a stone image of St. Christopher, and
the King's daughter said to it, "My father will come at nine o'clock, and every hour till it
strikes three; when he calls, give him an answer instead of the King's son." Then the stone
image of St. Christopher nodded its head quite quickly, and then more and more slowly till
at last it stood still. The next morning the King said to him, "Thou hast done the business
well, but I cannot give my daughter away. Thou must now watch a night by my second daughter,
and then I will consider with myself, whether thou canst have my eldest daughter to wife, but
I shall come every hour myself, and when I call thee, answer me, and if I call thee and thou
dost not reply, thy blood shall flow." Then they both went into the sleeping-room, and there
stood a still larger stone image of St. Christopher, and the King's daughter said to it, "If
my father calls, do you answer him."  And the King's son lay down on the threshold, put his
hand under his head and slept.

Then they once more went to the sleeping-room together, and there was a much greater and much
taller image of St. Christopher than the two first had been. The King's daughter said to it,
"When my father calls, do thou answer." Then the great tall stone image of St. Christopher
nodded quite half an hour with its head, until at length the head stood still again. And the
King's son laid himself down on the threshold of the door and slept. The next morning the King
said, "Thou hast indeed watched well, but I cannot give thee my daughter now; I have a great
forest, if thou cuttest it down for me between six o'clock this morning and six at night, I
will think about it." Then he gave him a glass axe, a glass wedge, and a glass mallet. When
he got into the wood, he began at once to cut, but the axe broke in two, then he took the wedge,
and struck it once with the mallet, and it became as short and as small as sand. Then he was
much troubled and believed he would have to die, and sat down and wept.

Now when it was noon the King said, "One of you girls must take him something to eat." "No,"
said the two eldest, "We will not take it to him; the one by whom he last watched, can take
him something." Then the youngest was forced to go and take him something to eat. When she
got into the forest, she asked him how he was getting on? "Oh," said he, "I am getting on very
badly." Then she said he was to come and just eat a little. "Nay," said he, "I cannot do that,
I shall still have to die, so I will eat no more." Then she spoke so kindly to him and begged
him just to try, that he came and ate something. When he had eaten something she said, "I will
comb thy hair a while, and then thou wilt feel happier."

So she combed his hair, and he became weary and fell asleep, and then she took her handkerchief
and made a knot in it, and struck it three times on the earth, and said, "Earth-workers, come
forth." In a moment, numbers of little earth-men came forth, and asked what the King's daughter
commanded? Then said she, "In three hours' time the great forest must be cut down, and the
whole of the wood laid in heaps." So the little earth-men went about and got together the whole
of their kindred to help them with the work. They began at once, and when the three hours were
over, all was done, and they came back to the King's daughter and told her so. Then she took
her white handkerchief again and said, "Earth-workers, go home." On this they all disappeared.
When the King's son awoke, he was delighted, and she said, "Come home when it has struck six
o'clock." He did as she told him, and then the King asked, "Hast thou made away with the forest?"
"Yes," said the King's son. When they were sitting at table, the King said, "I cannot yet give
thee my daughter to wife, thou must still do something more for her sake." So he asked what
it was to be, then? "I have a great fish-pond," said the King. "Thou must go to it to-morrow
morning and clear it of all mud until it is as bright as a mirror, and fill it with every kind
of fish."  The next morning the King gave him a glass shovel and said, "The fish-pond must
be done by six o'clock." So he went away, and when he came to the fish-pond he stuck his shovel
in the mud and it broke in two, then he stuck his hoe in the mud, and broke it also. Then he
was much troubled. At noon the youngest daughter brought him something to eat, and asked him
how he was getting on?  So the King's son said everything was going very ill with him, and
he would certainly have to lose his head. "My tools have broken to pieces again." "Oh," said
she, "thou must just come and eat something, and then thou wilt be in another frame of mind."
"No," said he, "I cannot eat, I am far too unhappy for that!" Then she gave him many good words
until at last he came and ate something. Then she combed his hair again, and he fell asleep,
so once more she took her handkerchief, tied a knot in it, and struck the ground thrice with
the knot, and said, "Earth-workers, come forth." In a moment a great many little earth-men
came and asked what she desired, and she told them that in three hours' time, they must have
the fish-pond entirely cleaned out, and it must be so clear that people could see themselves
reflected in it, and every kind of fish must be in it. The little earth-men went away and summoned
all their kindred to help them, and in two hours it was done. Then they returned to her and
said, "We have done as thou hast commanded." The King's daughter took the handkerchief and
once more struck thrice on the ground with it, and said, "Earth-workers, go home again." Then
they all went away.

When the King's son awoke the fish-pond was done. Then the King's daughter went away also,
and told him that when it was six he was to come to the house.  When he arrived at the house
the King asked, "Hast thou got the fish-pond done?" "Yes," said the King's son. That was very good.

When they were again sitting at table the King said, "Thou hast certainly done the fish-pond,
but I cannot give thee my daughter yet; thou must just do one thing more." "What is that, then?"
asked the King's son. The King said he had a great mountain on which there was nothing but
briars which must all be cut down, and at the top of it the youth must build up a great castle,
which must be as strong as could be conceived, and all the furniture and fittings belonging
to a castle must be inside it. And when he arose next morning the King gave him a glass axe
and a glass gimlet with him, and he was to have all done by six o'clock. As he was cutting
down the first briar with the axe, it broke off short, and so small that the pieces flew all
round about, and he could not use the gimlet either. Then he was quite miserable, and waited
for his dearest to see if she would not come and help him in his need. When it was mid-day
she came and brought him something to eat. He went to meet her and told her all, and ate something,
and let her comb his hair and fell asleep. Then she once more took the knot and struck the
earth with it, and said, "Earth-workers, come forth!" Then came once again numbers of earth-men,
and asked what her desire was. Then said she, "In the space of three hours they must cut down
the whole of the briars, and a castle must be built on the top of the mountain that must be
as strong as any one could conceive, and all the furniture that pertains to a castle must be
inside it." They went away, and summoned their kindred to help them and when the time was come,
all was ready. Then they came to the King's daughter and told her so, and the King's daughter
took her handkerchief and struck thrice on the earth with it, and said, "Earth-workers, go
home," on which they all disappeared. When therefore the King's son awoke and saw everything
done, he was as happy as a bird in air.

When it had struck six, they went home together. Then said the King, "Is the castle ready?"
"Yes," said the King's son. When they sat down to table, the King said, "I cannot give away
my youngest daughter until the two eldest are married."  Then the King's son and the King's
daughter were quite troubled, and the King's son had no idea what to do. But he went by night
to the King's daughter and ran away with her. When they had got a little distance away, the
King's daughter peeped round and saw her father behind her. "Oh," said she, "what are we to
do? My father is behind us, and will take us back with him. I will at once change thee into
a briar, and myself into a rose, and I will shelter myself in the midst of the bush." When
the father reached the place, there stood a briar with one rose on it, then he was about to
gather the rose, when the thorn came and pricked his finger so that he was forced to go home
again. His wife asked why he had not brought their daughter back with him? So he said he had
nearly got up to her, but that all at once he had lost sight of her, and a briar with one rose
was growing on the spot.

Then said the Queen, "If thou hadst but gathered the rose, the briar would have been forced
to come too." So he went back again to fetch the rose, but in the meantime the two were already
far over the plain, and the King ran after them.  Then the daughter once more looked round
and saw her father coming, and said, "Oh, what shall we do now? I will instantly change thee
into a church and myself into a priest, and I will stand up in the pulpit, and preach." When
the King got to the place, there stood a church, and in the pulpit was a priest preaching.
So he listened to the sermon, and then went home again.

Then the Queen asked why he had not brought their daughter with him, and he said, "Nay, I ran
a long time after her, and just as I thought I should soon overtake her, a church was standing
there and a priest was in the pulpit preaching." "Thou shouldst just have brought the priest,"
said his wife, "and then the church would soon have come. It is no use to send thee, I must
go there myself." When she had walked for some time, and could see the two in the distance,
the King's daughter peeped round and saw her mother coming, and said, "Now we are undone, for
my mother is coming herself: I will immediately change thee into a fish-pond and myself into
a fish.

When the mother came to the place, there was a large fish-pond, and in the midst of it a fish
was leaping about and peeping out of the water, and it was quite merry. She wanted to catch
the fish, but she could not. Then she was very angry, and drank up the whole pond in order
to catch the fish, but it made her so ill that she was forced to vomit, and vomited the whole
pond out again. Then she cried, "I see very well that nothing can be done now," and said that
now they might come back to her. Then the King's daughter went back again, and the Queen gave
her daughter three walnuts, and said, "With these thou canst help thyself when thou art in
thy greatest need." So the young folks went once more away together. And when they had walked
quite ten miles, they arrived at the castle from whence the King's son came, and close by it
was a village. When they reached it, the King's son said, "Stay here, my dearest, I will just
go to the castle, and then will I come with a carriage and with attendants to fetch thee."

When he got to the castle they all rejoiced greatly at having the King's son back again, and
he told them he had a bride who was now in the village, and they must go with the carriage
to fetch her. Then they harnessed the horses at once, and many attendants seated themselves
outside the carriage. When the King's son was about to get in, his mother gave him a kiss,
and he forgot everything which had happened, and also what he was about to do. On this his
mother ordered the horses to be taken out of the carriage again, and everyone went back into
the house. But the maiden sat in the village and watched and watched, and thought he would
come and fetch her, but no one came. Then the King's daughter took service in the mill which
belonged to the castle, and was obliged to sit by the pond every afternoon and clean the tubs.

And the Queen came one day on foot from the castle, and went walking by the pond, and saw the
well-grown maiden sitting there, and said, "What a fine strong girl that is! She pleases me
well!" Then she and all with her looked at the maid, but no one knew her. So a long time passed
by during which the maiden served the miller honorably and faithfully. In the meantime, the
Queen had sought a wife for her son, who came from quite a distant part of the world. When
the bride came, they were at once to be married. And many people hurried together, all of whom
wanted to see everything. Then the girl said to the miller that he might be so good as to give
her leave to go also. So the miller said, "Yes, do go there."  When she was about to go, she
opened one of the three walnuts, and a beautiful dress lay inside it. She put it on, and went
into the church and stood by the altar.  Suddenly came the bride and bridegroom, and seated
themselves before the altar, and when the priest was just going to bless them, the bride peeped
half round and saw the maiden standing there. Then she stood up again, and said she would not
be given away until she also had as beautiful a dress as that lady there. So they went back
to the house again, and sent to ask the lady if she would sell that dress. No, she would not
sell it, but the bride might perhaps earn it. Then the bride asked her how she was to do this?
Then the maiden said if she might sleep one night outside the King's son's door, the bride
might have what she wanted.  So the bride said, "Yes, she was willing to do that." But the
servants were ordered to give the King's son a sleeping-drink, and then the maiden laid herself
down on the threshold and lamented all night long. She had had the forest cut down for him,
she had had the fish-pond cleaned out for him, she had had the castle built for him, she had
changed him into a briar, and then into a church, and at last into a fish-pond, and yet he
had forgotten her so quickly. The King's son did not hear one word of it, but the servants
had been awakened, and had listened to it, and had not known what it could mean. The next morning
when they were all up, the bride put on the dress, and went away to the church with the bridegroom.
In the meantime the maiden opened the second walnut, and a still more beautiful dress was inside
it. She put it on, and went and stood by the altar in the church, and everything happened as
it had happened the time before. And the maiden again lay all night on the threshold which
led to the chamber of the King's son, and the servant was once more to give him a sleeping-drink.
The servant, however, went to him and gave him something to keep him awake, and then the King's
son went to bed, and the miller's maiden bemoaned herself as before on the threshold of the
door, and told of all that she had done. All this the King's son heard, and was sore troubled,
and what was past came back to him.  Then he wanted to go to her, but his mother had locked
the door. The next morning, however, he went at once to his beloved, and told her everything
which had happened to him, and prayed her not to be angry with him for having forgotten her.
Then the King's daughter opened the third walnut, and within it was a still more magnificent
dress, which she put on, and went with her bridegroom to church, and numbers of children came
who gave them flowers, and offered them gay ribbons to bind about their feet, and they were
blessed by the priest, and had a merry wedding. But the false mother and the bride had to depart.
And the mouth of the person who last told all this is still warm.

114 The Cunning Little Tailor

There was once on a time a princess who was extremely proud. If a wooer came she gave him some
riddle to guess, and if he could not find it out, he was sent contemptuously away. She let
it be made known also that whosoever solved her riddle should marry her, let him be who he
might. At length, therefore, three tailors fell in with each other, the two eldest of whom
thought they had done so many dexterous bits of work successfully that they could not fail
to succeed in this also; the third was a little useless land-louper, who did not even know
his trade, but thought he must have some luck in this venture, for where else was it to come
from? Then the two others said to him, "Just stay at home; thou canst not do much with thy
little bit of understanding." The little tailor, however, did not let himself be discouraged,
and said he had set his head to work about this for once, and he would manage well enough,
and he went forth as if the whole world were his.

They all three announced themselves to the princess, and said she was to propound her riddle
to them, and that the right persons were now come, who had understandings so fine that they
could be threaded in a needle. Then said the princess, "I have two kinds of hair on my head,
of what color is it?" "If that be all," said the first, "it must be black and white, like the
cloth which is called pepper and salt." The princess said, "Wrongly guessed; let the second
answer."  Then said the second, "If it be not black and white, then it is brown and red, like
my father's company coat." "Wrongly guessed," said the princess, "let the third give the answer,
for I see very well he knows it for certain." Then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and
said, "The princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head, and those are the two different
colors." When the princess heard that, she turned pale and nearly fell down with terror, for
the little tailor had guessed her riddle, and she had firmly believed that no man on earth
could discover it. When her courage returned she said, "Thou hast not won me yet by that; there
is still something else that thou must do. Below, in the stable is a bear with which thou shalt
pass the night, and when I get up in the morning if thou art still alive, thou shalt marry
me." She expected, however, she should thus get rid of the tailor, for the bear had never yet
left any one alive who had fallen into his clutches. The little tailor did not let himself
be frightened away, but was quite delighted, and said, "Boldly ventured is half won."

When therefore the evening came, our little tailor was taken down to the bear.  The bear was
about to set at the little fellow at once, and give him a hearty welcome with his paws: "Softly,
softly," said the little tailor, "I will soon make thee quiet." Then quite composedly, and
as if he had not an anxiety in the world, he took some nuts out of his pocket, cracked them,
and ate the kernels. When the bear saw that, he was seized with a desire to have some nuts
too. The tailor felt in his pockets, and reached him a handful; they were, however, not nuts,
but pebbles. The bear put them in his mouth, but could get nothing out of them, let him bite
as he would. "Eh!" thought he, "what a stupid blockhead I am! I cannot even crack a nut!" and
then he said to the tailor, "Here, crack me the nuts." "There, see what a stupid fellow thou
art!" said the little tailor, "to have such a great mouth, and not be able to crack a small
nut!" Then he took the pebble and nimbly put a nut in his mouth in the place of it, and crack,
it was in two! "I must try the thing again," said the bear; "when I watch you, I then think
I ought to be able to do it too." So the tailor once more gave him a pebble, and the bear tried
and tried to bite into it with all the strength of his body. But no one will imagine that he
accomplished it. When that was over, the tailor took out a violin from beneath his coat, and
played a piece of it to himself. When the bear heard the music, he could not help beginning
to dance, and when he had danced a while, the thing pleased him so well that he said to the
little tailor, "Hark you, is the fiddle heavy?" "Light enough for a child. Look, with the left
hand I lay my fingers on it, and with the right I stroke it with the bow, and then it goes
merrily, hop sa sa vivallalera!" "So," said the bear; "fiddling is a thing I should like to
understand too, that I might dance whenever I had a fancy. What dost thou think of that?  Wilt
thou give me lessons?" "With all my heart," said the tailor, "if thou hast a talent for it.
But just let me see thy claws, they are terribly long, I must cut thy nails a little." Then
a vise was brought, and the bear put his claws in it, and the little tailor screwed it tight,
and said, "Now wait until I come with the scissors," and he let the bear growl as he liked,
and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw, and fell asleep.

When the princess heard the bear growling so fiercely during the night, she believed nothing
else but that he was growling for joy, and had made an end of the tailor. In the morning she
arose careless and happy, but when she peeped into the stable, the tailor stood gaily before
her, and was as healthy as a fish in water. Now she could not say another word against the
wedding because she had given a promise before every one, and the King ordered a carriage to
be brought in which she was to drive to church with the tailor, and there she was to be married.
When they had got into the carriage, the two other tailors, who had false hearts and envied
him his good fortune, went into the stable and unscrewed the bear again. The bear in great
fury ran after the carriage. The princess heard him snorting and growling; she was terrified,
and she cried, "Ah, the bear is behind us and wants to get thee!" The tailor was quick and
stood on his head, stuck his legs out of the window, and cried, "Dost thou see the vise? If
thou dost not be off thou shalt be put into it again." When the bear saw that, he turned round
and ran away. The tailor drove quietly to church, and the princess was married to him at once,
and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark.  Whosoever does not believe this, must pay a thaler.

115 The Bright Sun Brings It to Light

A tailor's apprentice was travelling about the world in search of work, and at one time he
could find none, and his poverty was so great that he had not a farthing to live on. Presently
he met a Jew on the road, and as he thought he would have a great deal of money about him,
the tailor thrust God out of his heart, fell on the Jew, and said, "Give me thy money, or I
will strike thee dead." Then said the Jew, "Grant me my life, I have no money but eight farthings."
But the tailor said, "Money thou hast; and it shall be produced," and used violence and beat
him until he was near death. And when the Jew was dying, the last words he said were, "The
bright sun will bring it to light," and thereupon he died. The tailor's apprentice felt in
his pockets and sought for money, but he found nothing but eight farthings, as the Jew had
said. Then he took him up and carried him behind a clump of trees, and went onwards to seek
work. After he had traveled about a long while, he got work in a town with a master who had
a pretty daughter, with whom he fell in love, and he married her, and lived in good and happy
wedlock.

After a long time when he and his wife had two children, the wife's father and mother died,
and the young people kept house alone. One morning, when the husband was sitting on the table
before the window, his wife brought him his coffee, and when he had poured it out into the
saucer, and was just going to drink, the sun shone on it and the reflection gleamed hither
and thither on the wall above, and made circles on it. Then the tailor looked up and said,
"Yes, it would like very much to bring it to light, and cannot!" The woman said, "Oh, dear
husband, and what is that, then?" "What dost thou mean by that?" He answered, "I must not tell
thee." But she said, "If thou lovest me, thou must tell me," and used her most affectionate
words, and said that no one should ever know it, and left him no rest. Then he told her how
years ago, when he was travelling about seeking work and quite worn out and penniless, he had
killed a Jew, and that in the last agonies of death, the Jew had spoken the words, "The bright
sun will bring it to light." And now, the sun had just wanted to bring it to light, and had
gleamed and made circles on the wall, but had not been able to do it. After this, he again
charged her particularly never to tell this, or he would lose his life, and she did promise.
When however, he had sat down to work again, she went to her great friend and confided the
story to her, but she was never to repeat it to any human being, but before two days were over,
the whole town knew it, and the tailor was brought to trial, and condemned. And thus, after
all, the bright sun did bring it to light.

116 The Blue Light

There was once on a time a soldier who for many years had served the King faithfully, but when
the war came to an end could serve no longer because of the many wounds which he had received.
The King said to him, "Thou mayst return to thy home, I need thee no longer, and thou wilt
not receive any more money, for he only receives wages who renders me service for them." Then
the soldier did not know how to earn a living, went away greatly troubled, and walked the whole
day, until in the evening he entered a forest. When darkness came on, he saw a light, which
he went up to, and came to a house wherein lived a witch. "Do give me one night's lodging,
and a little to eat and drink," said he to her, "or I shall starve." "Oho!" she answered, "who
gives anything to a run-away soldier?  Yet will I be compassionate, and take you in, if you
will do what I wish." "What do you wish?" said the soldier. "That you should dig all round
my garden for me, tomorrow." The soldier consented, and next day labored with all his strength,
but could not finish it by the evening. "I see well enough," said the witch, "that you can
do no more to-day, but I will keep you yet another night, in payment for which you must to-morrow
chop me a load of wood, and make it small." The soldier spent the whole day in doing it, and
in the evening the witch proposed that he should stay one night more. "To-morrow, you shall
only do me a very trifling piece of work. Behind my house, there is an old dry well, into which
my light has fallen, it burns blue, and never goes out, and you shall bring it up again for
me." Next day the old woman took him to the well, and let him down in a basket. He found the
blue light, and made her a signal to draw him up again. She did draw him up, but when he came
near the edge, she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the blue light away from him.
"No," said he, perceiving her evil intention, "I will not give thee the light until I am standing
with both feet upon the ground." The witch fell into a passion, let him down again into the
well, and went away.

The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the blue light went on burning,
but of what use was that to him? He saw very well that he could not escape death. He sat for
a while very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which
was still half full. "This shall be my last pleasure," thought he, pulled it out, lit it at
the blue light and began to smoke.  When the smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a
little black dwarf stood before him, and said, "Lord, what are thy commands?" "What commands
have I to give thee?" replied the soldier, quite astonished. "I must do everything thou biddest
me," said the little man. "Good," said the soldier; "then in the first place help me out of
this well." The little man took him by the hand, and led him through an underground passage,
but he did not forget to take the blue light with him. On the way the dwarf showed him the
treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there, and the soldier took as much gold
as he could carry.  When he was above, he said to the little man, "Now go and bind the old
witch, and carry her before the judge." In a short time she, with frightful cries, came riding
by, as swift as the wind on a wild tom-cat, nor was it long after that before the little man
re-appeared. "It is all done," said he, "and the witch is already hanging on the gallows. What
further commands has my lord?" inquired the dwarf. "At this moment, none," answered the soldier;
"Thou canst return home, only be at hand immediately, if I summon thee." "Nothing more is needed
than that thou shouldst light thy pipe at the blue light, and I will appear before thee at
once." Thereupon he vanished from his sight.

The soldier returned to the town from which he had come. He went to the best inn, ordered himself
handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord furnish him a room as handsomely as possible.
When it was ready and the soldier had taken possession of it, he summoned the little black
mannikin and said, "I have served the King faithfully, but he has dismissed me, and left me
to hunger, and now I want to take my revenge." "What am I to do?" asked the little man. "Late
at night, when the King's daughter is in bed, bring her here in her sleep, she shall do servant's
work for me." The mannikin said, "That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very dangerous
thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill." When twelve o'clock had struck,
the door sprang open, and the mannikin carried in the princess. "Aha! art thou there?" cried
the soldier, "get to thy work at once! Fetch the broom and sweep the chamber." When she had
done this, he ordered her to come to his chair, and then he stretched out his feet and said,
"Pull off my boots for me," and then he threw them in her face, and made her pick them up again,
and clean and brighten them. She, however, did everything he bade her, without opposition,
silently and with half-shut eyes. When the first cock crowed, the mannikin carried her back
to the royal palace, and laid her in her bed.

Next morning when the princess arose, she went to her father, and told him that she had had
a very strange dream. "I was carried through the streets with the rapidity of lightning," said
she, "and taken into a soldier's room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his
room, clean his boots, and do all kinds of menial work. It was only a dream, and yet I am just
as tired as if I really had done everything." "The dream may have been true," said the King,
"I will give thee a piece of advice. Fill thy pocket full of peas, and make a small hole in
it, and then if thou art carried away again, they will fall out and leave a track in the streets."
But unseen by the King, the mannikin was standing beside him when he said that, and heard all.
At night when the sleeping princess was again carried through the streets, some peas certainly
did fall out of her pocket, but they made no track, for the crafty mannikin had just before
scattered peas in every street there was. And again the princess was compelled to do servant's
work until cock-crow.

Next morning the King sent his people out to seek the track, but it was all in vain, for in
every street poor children were sitting, picking up peas, and saying, "It must have rained
peas, last night." "We must think of something else," said the King; "keep thy shoes on when
thou goest to bed, and before thou comest back from the place where thou art taken, hide one
of them there, I will soon contrive to find it." The black mannikin heard this plot, and at
night when the soldier again ordered him to bring the princess, revealed it to him, and told
him that he knew of no expedient to counteract this stratagem, and that if the shoe were found
in the soldier's house it would go badly with him. "Do what I bid thee," replied the soldier,
and again this third night the princess was obliged to work like a servant, but before she
went away, she hid her shoe under the bed.

Next morning the King had the entire town searched for his daughter's shoe. It was found at
the soldier's, and the soldier himself, who at the entreaty of the dwarf had gone outside the
gate, was soon brought back, and thrown into prison. In his flight he had forgotten the most
valuable things he had, the blue light and the gold, and had only one ducat in his pocket.
And now loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of his dungeon, when he chanced to
see one of his comrades passing by. The soldier tapped at the pane of glass, and when this
man came up, said to him, "Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left lying in
the inn, and I will give you a ducat for doing it." His comrade ran thither and brought him
what he wanted. As soon as the soldier was alone again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the
black mannikin. "Have no fear," said the latter to his master. "Go wheresoever they take you,
and let them do what they will, only take the blue light with you." Next day the soldier was
tried, and though he had done nothing wicked, the judge condemned him to death. When he was
led forth to die, he begged a last favor of the King. "What is it?" asked the King.  "That
I may smoke one more pipe on my way." "Thou mayst smoke three," answered the King, "but do
not imagine that I will spare thy life." Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lighted it
at the blue light, and as soon as a few wreaths of smoke had ascended, the mannikin was there
with a small cudgel in his hand, and said, "What does my lord command?" "Strike down to earth
that false judge there, and his constable, and spare not the King who has treated me so ill."
Then the mannikin fell on them like lightning, darting this way and that way, and whosoever
was so much as touched by his cudgel fell to earth, and did not venture to stir again. The
King was terrified; he threw himself on the soldier's mercy, and merely to be allowed to live
at all, gave him his kingdom for his own, and the princess to wife.

117 The Wilful Child

Once upon a time there was a child who was willful, and would not do at her mother wished.
For this reason God had no pleasure in her, and let her become ill, and no doctor could do
her any good, and in a short time she lay on her death-bed. When she had been lowered into
her grave, and the earth was spread over her, all at once her arm came out again, and stretched
upwards, and when they had put it in and spread fresh earth over it, it was all to no purpose,
for the arm always came out again. Then the mother herself was obliged to go to the grave,
and strike the arm with a rod, and when she had done that, it was drawn in, and then at last
the child had rest beneath the ground.

118 The Three Army-Surgeons

Three army-surgeons who thought they knew their art perfectly, were travelling about the world,
and they came to an inn where they wanted to pass the night.  The host asked whence they came,
and whither they were going? "We are roaming about the world and practising our art." "Just
show me for once in a way what you can do," said the host. Then the first said he would cut
off his hand, and put it on again early next morning; the second said he would tear out his
heart, and replace it next morning; the third said he would cut out his eyes and heal them
again next morning. "If you can do that," said the innkeeper, "you have learnt everything."
They, however, had a salve, with which they rubbed themselves, which joined parts together,
and they carried the little bottle in which it was, constantly with them. Then they cut the
hand, heart and eyes from their bodies as they had said they would, and laid them all together
on a plate, and gave it to the innkeeper. The innkeeper gave it to a servant who was to set
it in the cupboard, and take good care of it. The girl, however, had a lover in secret, who
was a soldier. When therefore the innkeeper, the three army-surgeons, and everyone else in
the house were asleep, the soldier came and wanted something to eat. The girl opened the cupboard
and brought him some food, and in her love forgot to shut the cupboard-door again; She seated
herself at the table by her lover, and they chattered away together. While she sat so contentedly
there, thinking of no ill luck, the cat came creeping in, found the cupboard open, took the
hand and heart and eyes of the three army-surgeons, and ran off with them.  When the soldier
had done eating, and the girl was taking away the things and going to shut the cupboard she
saw that the plate which the innkeeper had given her to take care of, was empty. Then she said
in a fright to her lover, "Ah, miserable girl, what shall I do? The hand is gone, the heart
and the eyes are gone too, what will become of me in the morning?" "Be easy," said he, "I will
help thee out of thy trouble there is a thief hanging outside on the gallows, I will cut off
his hand. Which hand was it?" "The right one." Then the girl gave him a sharp knife, and he
went and cut the poor sinner's right hand off, and brought it to her. After this he caught
the cat and cut its eyes out, and now nothing but the heart was wanting. "Have you not been
killing, and are not the dead pigs in the cellar?" said he. "Yes," said the girl. "That's well,"
said the soldier, and he went down and fetched a pig's heart. The girl placed all together
on the plate, and put it in the cupboard, and when after this her lover took leave of her,
she went quietly to bed.

In the morning when the three army-surgeons got up, they told the girl she was to bring them
the plate on which the hand, heart, and eyes were lying. Then she brought it out of the cupboard,
and the first fixed the thief's hand on and smeared it with his salve, and it grew to his arm
directly. The second took the cat's eyes and put them in his own head. The third fixed the
pig's heart firm in the place where his own had been, and the innkeeper stood by, admired their
skill, and said he had never yet seen such a thing as that done, and would sing their praises
and recommend them to everyone. Then they paid their bill, and travelled farther.

As they were on their way, the one with the pig's heart did not stay with them at all, but
wherever there was a corner he ran to it, and rooted about in it with his nose as pigs do.
The others wanted to hold him back by the tail of his coat, but that did no good; he tore himself
loose, and ran wherever the dirt was thickest.  The second also behaved very strangely; he
rubbed his eyes, and said to the others, "Comrades, what is the matter? I don't see at all.
Will one of you lead me, so that I do not fall." Then with difficulty they travelled on till
evening, when they reached another inn. They went into the bar together, and there at a table
in the corner sat a rich man counting money. The one with the thief's hand walked round about
him, made a sudden movement twice with his arm, and at last when the stranger turned away,
he snatched at the pile of money, and took a handful from it. One of them saw this, and said,
"Comrade, what art thou about? Thou must not steal shame on thee!" "Eh," said he, "but how
can I stop myself? My hand twitches, and I am forced to snatch things whether I will or not."

After this, they lay down to sleep, and while they were lying there it was so dark that no
one could see his own hand. All at once the one with the cat's eyes awoke, aroused the others,
and said. "Brothers, just look up, do you see the white mice running about there?" The two
sat up, but could see nothing. Then said he, "Things are not right with us, we have not got
back again what is ours.  We must return to the innkeeper, he has deceived us." They went back
therefore, the next morning, and told the host they had not got what was their own again; that
the first had a thief's hand, the second cat's eyes, and the third a pig's heart. The innkeeper
said that the girl must be to blame for that, and was going to call her, but when she had seen
the three coming, she had run out by the backdoor, and not come back. Then the three said he
must give them a great deal of money, or they would set his house on fire. He gave them what
he had, and whatever he could get together, and the three went away with it. It was enough
for the rest of their lives, but they would rather have had their own proper organs.

119 The Seven Swabians

Seven Swabians were once together. The first was Master Schulz; the second, Jackli; the third,
Marli; the fourth, Jergli; the fifth, Michal; the sixth, Hans; the seventh, Veitli: all seven
had made up their minds to travel about the world to seek adventures, and perform great deeds.
But in order that they might go in security and with arms in their hands, they thought it would
be advisable that they should have one solitary, but very strong, and very long spear made
for them.  This spear all seven of them took in their hands at once; in front walked the boldest
and bravest, and that was Master Schulz; all the others followed in a row, and Veitli was the
last. Then it came to pass one day in the hay-making month (July), when they had walked a long
distance, and still had a long way to go before they reached the village where they were to
pass the night, that as they were in a meadow in the twilight a great beetle or hornet flew
by them from behind a bush, and hummed in a menacing manner. Master Schulz was so terrified
that he all but dropped the spear, and a cold perspiration broke out over his whole body. "Hark!
hark!" cried he to his comrades, "Good heavens! I hear a drum." Jackli, who was behind him
holding the spear, and who perceived some kind of a smell, said, "Something is most certainly
going on, for I taste powder and matches." At these words Master Schulz began to take to flight,
and in a trice jumped over a hedge, but as he just happened to jump on to the teeth of a rake
which had been left lying there after the hay-making, the handle of it struck against his face
and gave him a tremendous blow. "Oh dear! Oh dear!" screamed Master Schulz. "Take me prisoner;
I surrender! I surrender!" The other six all leapt over, one on the top of the other, crying,
"If you surrender, I surrender too!  If you surrender, I surrender too!" At length, as no enemy
was there to bind and take them away, they saw that they had been mistaken, and in order that
the story might not be known, and they be treated as fools and ridiculed, they all swore to
each other to hold their peace about it until one of them accidentally spoke of it. Then they
journeyed onwards. The second danger which they survived cannot be compared with the first.
Some days afterwards, their path led them through a fallow-field where a hare was sitting sleeping
in the sun. Her ears were standing straight up, and her great glassy eyes were wide open. All
of them were alarmed at the sight of the horrible wild beast, and they consulted together as
to what it would be the least dangerous to do. For if they were to run away, they knew that
the monster would pursue and swallow them whole. So they said, "We must go through a great
and dangerous struggle. Boldly ventured, is half won," and all seven grasped the spear, Master
Schulz in front, and Veitli behind.  Master Schulz was always trying to keep the spear back,
but Veitli had become quite brave while behind, and wanted to dash forward and cried,

 "Strike home, in every Swabian's name,
 Or else I wish ye may be lame."

But Hans knew how to meet this, and said,

 "Thunder and lightning, it's fine to prate,
 But for dragon-hunting thou'rt aye too late."

Michal cried,

 "Nothing is wanting, not even a hair,
 Be sure the Devil himself is there."

Then it was Jergli's turn to speak,

 "If it be not, it's at least his mother,
 Or else it's the Devil's own step-brother."

And now Marli had a bright thought, and said to Veitli,

 "Advance, Veitli, advance, advance,
 And I behind will hold the lance."

Veitli, however, did not attend to that, and Jackli said,

 "Tis Schulz's place the first to be,
 No one deserves that honor but he."

Then Master Schulz plucked up his courage, and said, gravely,

 "Then let us boldly advance to the fight,
 And thus we shall show our valour and might."

Hereupon they all together set on the dragon. Master Schulz crossed himself and prayed for
God's assistance, but as all this was of no avail, and he was getting nearer and nearer to
the enemy, he screamed "Oho! oho! ho! ho! ho!" in the greatest anguish. This awakened the hare,
which in great alarm darted swiftly away. When Master Schulz saw her thus flying from the field
of battle, he cried in his joy.

 "Quick, Veitli, quick, look there, look there,
 The monster's nothing but a hare!"

But the Swabian allies went in search of further adventures, and came to the Moselle, a mossy,
quiet, deep river, over which there are few bridges, and which in many places people have to
cross in boats. As the seven Swabians did not know this, they called to a man who was working
on the opposite side of the river, to know how people contrived to get across. The distance
and their way of speaking made the man unable to understand what they wanted, and he said "What?
what?" in the way people speak in the neighborhood of Treves. Master Schulz thought he was
saying, "Wade, wade through the water," and as he was the first, began to set out and went
into the moselle. It was not long before he sank in the mud and the deep waves which drove
against him, but his hat was blown on the opposite shore by the wind, and a frog sat down beside
it, and croaked "Wat, wat, wat." The other six on the opposite side heard that, and said, "Oho,
comrades, Master Schulz is calling us; if he can wade across, why cannot we?" So they all jumped
into the water together in a great hurry, and were drowned, and thus one frog took the lives
of all six of them, and not one of the Swabian allies ever reached home again.

120 The Three Apprentices

There were once three apprentices, who had agreed to keep always together while travelling,
and always to work in the same town. At one time, however, their masters had no more work to
give them, so that at last they were in rags, and had nothing to live on. Then one of them
said, "What shall we do? We cannot stay here any longer, we will travel once more, and if we
do not find any work in the town we go to, we will arrange with the innkeeper there, that we
are to write and tell him where we are staying, so that we can always have news of each other,
and then we will separate." And that seemed best to the others also. They went forth, and met
on the way a richly-dressed man who asked who they were. "We are apprentices looking for work;
Up to this time we have kept together, but if we cannot find anything to do we are going to
separate." "There is no need for that," said the man, "if you will do what I tell you, you
shall not want for gold or for work; nay, you shall become great lords, and drive in your carriages!"
One of them said, "If our souls and salvation be not endangered, we will certainly do it."
"They will not," replied the man, "I have no claim on you." One of the others had, however,
looked at his feet, and when he saw a horse's foot and a man's foot, he did not want to have
anything to do with him. The Devil, however, said, "Be easy, I have no designs on you, but
on another soul, which is half my own already, and whose measure shall but run full." As they
were now secure, they consented, and the Devil told them what he wanted. The first was to answer,
"All three of us," to every question; the second was to say, "For money," and the third, "And
quite right too!" They were always to say this, one after the other, but they were not to say
one word more, and if they disobeyed this order, all their money would disappear at once, but
so long as they observed it, their pockets would always be full. As a beginning, he at once
gave them as much as they could carry, and told them to go to such and such an inn when they
got to the town. They went to it, and the innkeeper came to meet them, and asked if they wished
for anything to eat? The first replied, "All three of us." "Yes," said the host, "that is what
I mean." The second said, "For money."  "Of course," said the host. The third said, "And quite
right too!" "Certainly it is right," said the host.

Good meat and drink were now brought to them, and they were well waited on.  After the dinner
came the payment, and the innkeeper gave the bill to the one who said, "All three of us," the
second said, "For money," and the third, "and quite right too!" "Indeed it is right," said
the host, "all three pay, and without money I can give nothing." They, however, paid still
more than he had asked.  The lodgers, who were looking on, said, "These people must be mad."
"Yes, indeed they are," said the host, "they are not very wise." So they stayed some time in
the inn, and said nothing else but, "All three of us," "For money," and "And quite right too!"
But they saw and knew all that was going on. It so happened that a great merchant came with
a large sum of money, and said, "Sir host, take care of my money for me, here are three crazy
apprentices who might steal it from me." The host did as he was asked. As he was carrying the
trunk into his room, he felt that it was heavy with gold. Thereupon he gave the three apprentices
a lodging below, but the merchant came up-stairs into a separate apartment. When it was midnight,
and the host thought that all were asleep, he came with his wife, and they had an axe and struck
the rich merchant dead; and after they had murdered him they went to bed again. When it was
day there was a great outcry; the merchant lay dead in bed bathed in blood. All the guests
ran at once but the host said, "The three crazy apprentices have done this;" the lodgers confirmed
it, and said, "It can have been no one else." The innkeeper, however, had them called, and
said to them, "Have you killed the merchant?" "All three of us," said the first, "For money,"
said the second; and the third added, "And quite right too!" "There now, you hear," said the
host, "they confess it themselves." They were taken to prison, therefore, and were to be tried.
When they saw that things were going so seriously, they were after all afraid, but at night
the Devil came and said, "Bear it just one day longer, and do not play away your luck, not
one hair of your head shall be hurt."

The next morning they were led to the bar, and the judge said, "Are you the murderers?" "All
three of us." "Why did you kill the merchant?" "For money."  "You wicked wretches, you have
no horror of your sins?" "And quite right too!"  "They have confessed, and are still stubborn,"
said the judge, "lead them to death instantly." So they were taken out, and the host had to
go with them into the circle. When they were taken hold of by the executioner's men, and were
just going to be led up to the scaffold where the headsman was standing with naked sword, a
coach drawn by four blood-red chestnut horses came up suddenly, driving so fast that fire flashed
from the stones, and someone made signs from the window with a white handkerchief. Then said
the headsman, "It is a pardon coming," and "Pardon! pardon!" was called from the carriage also.
Then the Devil stepped out as a very noble gentleman, beautifully dressed, and said, "You three
are innocent; you may now speak, make known what you have seen and heard." Then said the eldest,
"We did not kill the merchant, the murderer is standing there in the circle," and he pointed
to the innkeeper. "In proof of this, go into his cellar, where many others whom he has killed
are still hanging." Then the judge sent the executioner's men thither, and they found it was
as the apprentices said, and when they had informed the judge of this, he caused the innkeeper
to be led up, and his head was cut off. Then said the Devil to the three, "Now I have got the
soul which I wanted to have, and you are free, and have money for the rest of your lives."

121 The King's Son Who Feared Nothing

There was once a King's son, who was no longer content to stay at home in his father's house,
and as he had no fear of anything, he thought, "I will go forth into the wide world, there
the time will not seem long to me, and I shall see wonders enough." So he took leave of his
parents, and went forth, and on and on from morning till night, and whichever way his path
led it was the same to him.  It came to pass that he got to the house of a giant, and as he
was so tired he sat down by the door and rested. And as he let his eyes roam here and there,
he saw the giant's playthings lying in the yard. These were a couple of enormous balls, and
nine-pins as tall as a man. After a while he had a fancy to set the nine-pins up and then rolled
the balls at them, and screamed and cried out when the nine-pins fell, and had a merry time
of it. The giant heard the noise, stretched his head out of the window, and saw a man who was
not taller than other men, and yet played with his nine-pins. "Little worm," cried he, "why
art thou playing with my balls? Who gave thee strength to do it?" The King's son looked up,
saw the giant, and said, "Oh, thou blockhead, thou thinkest indeed that thou only hast strong
arms, I can do everything I want to do." The giant came down and watched the bowling with great
admiration, and said, "Child of man, if thou art one of that kind, go and bring me an apple
of the tree of life." "What dost thou want with it?" said the King's son. "I do not want the
apple for myself," answered the giant, "but I have a betrothed bride who wishes for it. I have
travelled far about the world and cannot find the tree." "I will soon find it," said the King's
son, "and I do not know what is to prevent me from getting the apple down."  The giant said,
"Thou really believest it to be so easy! The garden in which the tree stands is surrounded
by an iron railing, and in front of the railing lie wild beasts, each close to the other, and
they keep watch and let no man go in."  "They will be sure to let me in," said the King's son.
"Yes, but even if thou dost get into the garden, and seest the apple hanging to the tree, it
is still not thine; a ring hangs in front of it, through which any one who wants to reach the
apple and break it off, must put his hand, and no one has yet had the luck to do it." "That
luck will be mine," said the King's son.

Then he took leave of the giant, and went forth over mountain and valley, and through plains
and forests, until at length he came to the wondrous garden.

The beasts lay round about it, but they had put their heads down and were asleep. Moreover,
they did not awake when he went up to them, so he stepped over them, climbed the fence, and
got safely into the garden. There, in the very middle of it, stood the tree of life, and the
red apples were shining upon the branches. He climbed up the trunk to the top, and as he was
about to reach out for an apple, he saw a ring hanging before it; but he thrust his hand through
that without any difficulty, and gathered the apple. The ring closed tightly on his arm, and
all at once he felt a prodigious strength flowing through his veins. When he had come down
again from the tree with the apple, he would not climb over the fence, but grasped the great
gate, and had no need to shake it more than once before it sprang open with a loud crash. Then
he went out, and the lion which had been lying down before, was awake and sprang after him,
not in rage and fierceness, but following him humbly as its master.

The King's son took the giant the apple he had promised him, and said, "Seest thou, I have
brought it without difficulty." The giant was glad that his desire had been so soon satisfied,
hastened to his bride, and gave her the apple for which she had wished. She was a beautiful
and wise maiden, and as she did not see the ring on his arm, she said, "I shall never believe
that thou hast brought the apple, until I see the ring on thine arm." The giant said, "I have
nothing to do but go home and fetch it," and thought it would be easy to take away by force
from the weak man, what he would not give of his own free will. He therefore demanded the ring
from him, but the King's son refused it. "Where the apple is, the ring must be also," said
the giant; "if thou wilt not give it of thine own accord, thou must fight with me for it."

They wrestled with each other for a long time, but the giant could not get the better of the
King's son, who was strengthened by the magical power of the ring.  Then the giant thought
of a stratagem, and said, "I have got warm with fighting, and so hast thou. We will bathe in
the river, and cool ourselves before we begin again." The King's son, who knew nothing of falsehood,
went with him to the water, and pulled off with his clothes the ring also from his arm, and
sprang into the river. The giant instantly snatched the ring, and ran away with it, but the
lion, which had observed the theft, pursued the giant, tore the ring out of his hand, and brought
it back to its master. Then the giant placed himself behind an oak-tree, and while the King's
son was busy putting on his clothes again, surprised him, and put both his eyes out.

And now the unhappy King's son stood there, and was blind and knew not how to help himself.
Then the giant came back to him, took him by the hand as if he were someone who wanted to guide
him, and led him to the top of a high rock.  There he left him standing, and thought, "Just
two steps more, and he will fall down and kill himself, and I can take the ring from him."
But the faithful lion had not deserted its master; it held him fast by the clothes, and drew
him gradually back again. When the giant came and wanted to rob the dead man, he saw that his
cunning had been in vain. "Is there no way, then, of destroying a weak child of man like that?"
said he angrily to himself, and seized the King's son and led him back again to the precipice
by another way, but the lion which saw his evil design, helped its master out of danger here
also. When they had got close to the edge, the giant let the blind man's hand drop, and was
going to leave him behind alone, but the lion pushed the giant so that he was thrown down and
fell, dashed to pieces, on the ground.

The faithful animal again drew its master back from the precipice, and guided him to a tree
by which flowed a clear brook. The King's son sat down there, but the lion lay down, and sprinkled
the water in his face with its paws. Scarcely had a couple of drops wetted the sockets of his
eyes, than he was once more able to see something, and remarked a little bird flying quite
close by, which wounded itself against the trunk of a tree. On this it went down to the water
and bathed itself therein, and then it soared upwards and swept between the trees without touching
them, as if it had recovered its sight again. Then the King's son recognized a sign from God
and stooped down to the water, and washed and bathed his face in it. And when he arose he had
his eyes once more, brighter and clearer than they had ever been.

The King's son thanked God for his great mercy, and travelled with his lion onwards through
the world. And it came to pass that he arrived before a castle which was enchanted. In the
gateway stood a maiden of beautiful form and fine face, but she was quite black. She spoke
to him and said, "Ah, if thou couldst but deliver me from the evil spell which is thrown over
me." "What shall I do?"  said the King's son. The maiden answered, "Thou must pass three nights
in the great hall of this enchanted castle, but thou must let no fear enter thy heart. When
they are doing their worst to torment thee, if thou bearest it without letting a sound escape
thee, I shall be free. Thy life they dare not take." Then said the King's son, "I have no fear;
with God's help I will try it." So he went gaily into the castle, and when it grew dark he
seated himself in the large hall and waited.  Everything was quiet, however, till midnight,
when all at once a great tumult began, and out of every hole and corner came little devils.
They behaved as if they did not see him, seated themselves in the middle of the room, lighted
a fire, and began to gamble. When one of them lost, he said, "It is not right; some one is
here who does not belong to us; it is his fault that I am losing." "Wait, you fellow behind
the stove, I am coming," said another. The screaming became still louder, so that no one could
have heard it without terror. The King's son stayed sitting quite quietly, and was not afraid;
but at last the devils jumped up from the ground, and fell on him, and there were so many of
them that he could not defend himself from them. They dragged him about on the floor, pinched
him, pricked him, beat him, and tormented him, but no sound escaped from him.  Towards morning
they disappeared, and he was so exhausted that he could scarcely move his limbs, but when day
dawned the black maiden came to him.  She bore in her hand a little bottle wherein was the
water of life wherewith she washed him, and he at once felt all pain depart and new strength
flow through his veins. She said, "Thou hast held out successfully for one night, but two more
lie before thee." Then she went away again, and as she was going, he observed that her feet
had become white. The next night the devils came and began their gambols anew. They fell on
the King's son, and beat him much more severely than the night before, until his body was covered
with wounds. But as he bore all quietly, they were forced to leave him, and when dawn appeared,
the maiden came and healed him with the water of life. And when she went away, he saw with
joy that she had already become white to the tips of her fingers. And now he had only one night
more to go through, but it was the worst. The hob-goblins came again: "Art thou there still?"
cried they, "thou shalt be tormented till thy breath stops." They pricked him and beat him,
and threw him here and there, and pulled him by the arms and legs as if they wanted to tear
him to pieces, but he bore everything, and never uttered a cry. At last the devils vanished,
but he lay fainting there, and did not stir, nor could he raise his eyes to look at the maiden
who came in, and sprinkled and bathed him with the water of life. But suddenly he was freed
from all pain, and felt fresh and healthy as if he had awakened from sleep, and when he opened
his eyes he saw the maiden standing by him, snow-white, and fair as day. "Rise," said she,
"and swing thy sword three times over the stairs, and then all will be delivered." And when
he had done that, the whole castle was released from enchantment, and the maiden was a rich
King's daughter. The servants came and said that the table was already set in the great hall,
and dinner served up. Then they sat down and ate and drank together, and in the evening the
wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings.

122 Donkey Cabbages

There was once a young huntsman who went into the forest to lie in wait. He had a fresh and
joyous heart, and as he was going thither, whistling upon a leaf, an ugly old crone came up,
who spoke to him and said, "Good-day, dear huntsman, truly you are merry and contented, but
I am suffering from hunger and thirst, do give me an alms." The huntsman had compassion on
the poor old creature, felt in his pocket, and gave her what he could afford. He was then about
to go further, but the old woman stopped him and said, "Listen, dear huntsman, to what I tell
you; I will make you a present in return for your kindness. Go on your way now, but in a little
while you will come to a tree, whereon nine birds are sitting which have a cloak in their claws,
and are plucking at it; take your gun and shoot into the midst of them, they will let the cloak
fall down to you, but one of the birds will be hurt, and will drop down dead. The huntsman
thanked the wise woman, and thought to himself, "Those are fine things that she has promised
me, if all does but come true." And verily when he had walked about a hundred paces, he heard
in the branches above him such a screaming and twittering that he looked up and saw there a
crowd of birds who were tearing a piece of cloth about with their beaks and claws, and tugging
and fighting as if each wanted to have it all to himself. "Well," said the huntsman, "this
is wonderful, it has really come to pass just as the old wife foretold!" and he took the gun
from his shoulder, aimed and fired right into the midst of them, so that the feathers flew
about. The birds instantly took to flight with loud outcries, but one dropped down dead, and
the cloak fell at the same time. Then the huntsman did as the old woman had directed him, cut
open the bird, sought the heart, swallowed it down, and took the cloak home with him.

Next morning, when he awoke, the promise occurred to him, and he wished to see if it also had
been fulfilled. When he lifted up the pillow, the gold piece shone in his eyes, and next day
he found another, and so it went on, every time he got up. He gathered together a heap of gold,
but at last he thought, "Of what use is all my gold to me if I stay at home? I will go forth
and see the world."

He then took leave of his parents, buckled on his huntsman's pouch and gun, and went out into
the world. It came to pass, that one day he travelled through a dense forest, and when he came
to the end of it, in the plain before him stood a fine castle. An old woman was standing with
a wonderfully beautiful maiden, looking out of one of the windows. The old woman, however,
was a witch and said to the maiden, "There comes one out of the forest, who has a wonderful
treasure in his body, we must filch it from him, my dear daughter, it is more suitable for
us than for him. He has a bird's heart about him, by means of which a gold piece lies every
morning under his pillow." She told her what she was to do to get it, and what part she had
to play, and finally threatened her, and said with angry eyes, "And if you do not attend to
what I say, it will be the worse for you."  Now when the huntsman came nearer he descried the
maiden, and said to himself, "I have travelled about for such a long time, I will take a rest
for once, and enter that beautiful castle. I have certainly money enough." Nevertheless, the
real reason was that he had caught sight of the pretty girl.

He entered the house, and was well received and courteously entertained. Before long he was
so much in love with the young witch that he no longer thought of anything else, and only saw
things as she saw them, and did what she desired. The old woman then said, "Now we must have
the bird's heart, he will never miss it." She prepared a drink, and when it was ready, poured
it into a cup and gave it to the maiden, who was to present it to the huntsman. She did so,
saying, "Now, my dearest, drink to me." So he took the cup, and when he had swallowed the draught,
he brought up the heart of the bird. The girl had to take it away secretly and swallow it herself,
for the old woman would have it so. Thenceforward he found no more gold under his pillow, but
it lay instead under that of the maiden, from whence the old woman fetched it away every morning;
but he was so much in love and so befooled, that he thought of nothing else but of passing
his time with the girl.

Then the old witch said, "We have the bird's heart, but we must also take the wishing-cloak
away from him." The girl answered, "We will leave him that, he has lost his wealth." The old
woman was angry and said, "Such a mantle is a wonderful thing, and is seldom to be found in
this world. I must and will have it!"  She gave the girl several blows, and said that if she
did not obey, it should fare ill with her. So she did the old woman's bidding, placed herself
at the window and looked on the distant country, as if she were very sorrowful. The huntsman
asked, "Why dost thou stand there so sorrowfully?" "Ah, my beloved," was her answer, "over
yonder lies the Garnet Mountain, where the precious stones grow. I long for them so much that
when I think of them, I feel quite sad, but who can get them? Only the birds; they fly and
can reach them, but a man never." "Hast thou nothing else to complain of?" said the huntsman.
"I will soon remove that burden from thy heart." With that he drew her under his mantle, wished
himself on the Garnet Mountain, and in the twinkling of an eye they were sitting on it together.
Precious stones were glistening on every side so that it was a joy to see them, and together
they gathered the finest and costliest of them. Now, the old woman had, through her sorceries,
contrived that the eyes of the huntsman should become heavy. When he was asleep, she unfastened
the mantle from his shoulders, and wrapped herself in it, picked up the garnets and stones,
and wished herself back at home with them.

But when the huntsman had had his sleep out and awoke, and perceived that his sweetheart had
betrayed him, and left him alone on the wild mountain, he said, "Oh, what treachery there is
in the world!" and sat down there in care and sorrow, not knowing what to do. But the mountain
belonged to some wild and monstrous giants who dwelt thereon and lived their lives there, and
he had not sat long before he saw three of them coming towards him, so he lay down as if he
were sunk in a deep sleep. Then the giants came up, and the first kicked him with his foot
and said, "What sort of an earth-worm is lying curled up here?" The second said, "Step upon
him and kill him." But the third said, "That would indeed be worth your while; just let him
live, he cannot remain here; and when he climbs higher, toward the summit of of the mountain,
the clouds will lay hold of him and bear him away." So saying they passed by. But the huntsman
had paid heed to their words, and as soon as they were gone, he rose and climbed up to the
summit of the mountain, and when he had sat there a while, a cloud floated towards him, caught
him up, carried him away, and travelled about for a long time in the heavens. Then it sank
lower, and let itself down on a great cabbage-garden, girt round by walls, so that he came
softly to the ground on cabbages and vegetables.

Then the huntsman looked about him and said, "If I had but something to eat! I am so hungry,
and my hunger will increase in course of time; but I see here neither apples nor pears, nor
any other sort of fruit, everywhere nothing but cabbages," but at length he thought, "At a
pinch I can eat some of the leaves, they do not taste particularly good, but they will refresh
me." With that he picked himself out a fine head of cabbage, and ate it, but scarcely had he
swallowed a couple of mouthfuls than he felt very strange and quite different.

Four legs grew on him, a large head and two thick ears, and he saw with horror that he was
changed into an ass. Still as his hunger increased every minute, and as the juicy leaves were
suitable to his present nature, he went on eating with great zest. At last he arrived at a
different kind of cabbage, but as soon as he had swallowed it, he again felt a change, and
reassumed his former human shape.

Then the huntsman lay down and slept off his fatigue. When he awoke next morning, he broke
off one head of the bad cabbages and another of the good ones, and thought to himself, "This
shall help me to get my own again and punish treachery." Then he took the cabbages with him,
climbed over the wall, and went forth to seek for the castle of his sweetheart. After wandering
about for a couple of days he was lucky enough to find it again. He dyed his face brown, so
that his own mother would not have known him; and begged for shelter: "I am so tired," said
he, "that I can go no further." The witch asked, "Who are you, countryman, and what is your
business?" "I am a King's messenger, and was sent out to seek the most delicious salad which
grows beneath the sun. I have even been so fortunate as to find it, and am carrying it about
with me; but the heat of the sun is so intense that the delicate cabbage threatens to wither,
and I do not know if I can carry it any further." The witch suspected nothing amiss, and her
mouth watered so for this new dish that she herself went into the kitchen and dressed it. When
it was prepared she could not wait until it was set on the table, but took a couple of leaves
at once, and put them in her mouth, but hardly had she swallowed them than she was deprived
of her human shape, and she ran out into the courtyard in the form of an ass. Presently the
maid-servant entered the kitchen, saw the salad standing there ready prepared, and was about
to carry it up; but on the way, according to habit, she was seized by the desire to taste,
and she ate a couple of leaves. Instantly the magic power showed itself, and she likewise became
an ass and ran out to the old woman, and the dish of salad fell to the ground. Meantime the
messenger sat beside the beautiful girl, and as no one came with the salad and she also was
longing for it, she said, "I don't know what has become of the salad." The huntsman thought,
"The salad must have already taken effect," and said, "I will go to the kitchen and inquire
about it." As he went down he saw the two asses running about in the courtyard; the salad,
however, was lying on the ground. "All right," said he, "the two have taken their portion,"
and he picked up the other leaves, laid them on the dish, and carried them to the maiden. "I
bring you the delicate food myself," said he, "in order that you may not have to wait longer."
Then she ate of it, and was, like the others, immediately deprived of her human form, and ran
out into the courtyard in the shape of an ass. "I have three unmanageable beasts," answered
he, "which I don't want to keep any longer.  Will you take them in, and give them food and
stable room, and manage them as I tell you, and then I will pay you what you ask." The miller
said, "Why not? But how am I to manage them?" The huntsman then said that he was to give three
beatings and one meal daily to the old donkey, and that was the witch; one beating and three
meals to the younger one, which was the servant-girl; and to the youngest, which was the maiden,
no beatings and three meals, for he could not bring himself to have the maiden beaten. After
that he went back into the castle, and found therein everything he needed.

After a couple of days, the miller came and said he must inform him that the old ass which
had received three beatings and only one meal daily was dead; "the two others," he continued,
"are certainly not dead, and are fed three times daily, but they are so sad that they cannot
last much longer." The huntsman was moved to pity, put away his anger, and told the miller
to drive them back again to him.  And when they came, he gave them some of the good salad,
so that they became human again. The beautiful girl fell on her knees before him, and said,
"Ah, my beloved, forgive me for the evil I have done you; my mother drove me to it; it was
done against my will, for I love you dearly. Your wishing-cloak hangs in a cupboard, and as
for the bird's-heart I will take a vomiting potion." But he thought otherwise, and said, "Keep
it; it is all the same, for I will take thee for my true wife." So the wedding was celebrated,
and they lived happily together until their death.

123 The Old Woman in the Wood

A poor servant-girl was once travelling with the family with which she was in service, through
a great forest, and when they were in the midst of it, robbers came out of the thicket, and
murdered all they found. All perished together except the girl, who had jumped out of the carriage
in a fright, and hidden herself behind a tree. When the robbers had gone away with their booty,
she came out and beheld the great disaster. Then she began to weep bitterly, and said, "What
can a poor girl like me do now? I do not know how to get out of the forest, no human being
lives in it, so I must certainly starve." She walked about and looked for a road, but could
find none. When it was evening she seated herself under a tree, gave herself into God's keeping,
and resolved to sit waiting there and not go away, let what might happen. When, however, she
had sat there for a while, a white dove came flying to her with a little golden key in its
mouth. It put the little key in her hand, and said, "Dost thou see that great tree, therein
is a little lock, it opens with the tiny key, and there thou wilt find food enough, and suffer
no more hunger." Then she went to the tree and opened it, and found milk in a little dish,
and white bread to break into it, so that she could eat her fill. When she was satisfied, she
said, "It is now the time when the hens at home go to roost, I am so tired I could go to bed
too." Then the dove flew to her again, and brought another golden key in its bill, and said,
"Open that tree there, and thou willt find a bed." So she opened it, and found a beautiful
white bed, and she prayed God to protect her during the night, and lay down and slept. In the
morning the dove came for the third time, and again brought a little key, and said, "Open that
tree there, and thou wilt find clothes." And when she opened it, she found garments beset with
gold and with jewels, more splendid than those of any king's daughter. So she lived there for
some time, and the dove came every day and provided her with all she needed, and it was a quiet
good life.

Once, however, the dove came and said, "Wilt thou do something for my sake?"  "With all my
heart," said the girl. Then said the little dove, "I will guide thee to a small house; enter
it, and inside it, an old woman will be sitting by the fire and will say, 'Good-day.' But on
thy life give her no answer, let her do what she will, but pass by her on the right side; further
on, there is a door, which open, and thou wilt enter into a room where a quantity of rings
of all kinds are lying, amongst which are some magnificent ones with shining stones; leave
them, however, where they are, and seek out a plain one, which must likewise be amongst them,
and bring it here to me as quickly as thou canst." The girl went to the little house, and came
to the door. There sat an old woman who stared when she saw her, and said, "Good-day my child."
The girl gave her no answer, and opened the door. "Whither away," cried the old woman, and
seized her by the gown, and wanted to hold her fast, saying, "That is my house; no one can
go in there if I choose not to allow it." But the girl was silent, got away from her, and went
straight into the room. Now there lay on the table an enormous quantity of rings, which gleamed
and glittered before her eyes. She turned them over and looked for the plain one, but could
not find it. While she was seeking, she saw the old woman and how she was stealing away, and
wanting to get off with a bird-cage which she had in her hand. So she went after her and took
the cage out of her hand, and when she raised it up and looked into it, a bird was inside which
had the plain ring in its bill. Then she took the ring, and ran quite joyously home with it,
and thought the little white dove would come and get the ring, but it did not.  Then she leant
against a tree and determined to wait for the dove, and, as she thus stood, it seemed just
as if the tree was soft and pliant, and was letting its branches down. And suddenly the branches
twined around her, and were two arms, and when she looked round, the tree was a handsome man,
who embraced and kissed her heartily, and said, "Thou hast delivered me from the power of the
old woman, who is a wicked witch. She had changed me into a tree, and every day for two hours
I was a white dove, and so long as she possessed the ring I could not regain my human form."
Then his servants and his horses, who had likewise been changed into trees, were freed from
the enchantment also, and stood beside him. And he led them forth to his kingdom, for he was
a King's son, and they married, and lived happily.

124 The Three Brothers

There was once a man who had three sons, and nothing else in the world but the house in which
he lived. Now each of the sons wished to have the house after his father's death; but the father
loved them all alike, and did not know what to do; he did not wish to sell the house, because
it had belonged to his forefathers, else he might have divided the money amongst them. At last
a plan came into his head, and he said to his sons, "Go into the world, and try each of you
to learn a trade, and, when you all come back, he who makes the best masterpiece shall have
the house."

The sons were well content with this, and the eldest determined to be a blacksmith, the second
a barber, and the third a fencing-master. They fixed a time when they should all come home
again, and then each went his way.

It chanced that they all found skilful masters, who taught them their trades well.  The blacksmith
had to shoe the King's horses, and he thought to himself, "The house is mine, without doubt."
The barber only shaved great people, and he too already looked upon the house as his own. The
fencing-master got many a blow, but he only bit his lip, and let nothing vex him; "for," said
he to himself, "If you are afraid of a blow, you'll never win the house."

When the appointed time had gone by, the three brothers came back home to their father; but
they did not know how to find the best opportunity for showing their skill, so they sat down
and consulted together. As they were sitting thus, all at once a hare came running across the
field. "Ah, ha, just in time!" said the barber. So he took his basin and soap, and lathered
away until the hare came up; then he soaped and shaved off the hare's whiskers whilst he was
running at the top of his speed, and did not even cut his skin or injure a hair on his body.
"Well done!" said the old man. "Your brothers will have to exert themselves wonderfully, or
the house will be yours."

Soon after, up came a nobleman in his coach, dashing along at full speed. "Now you shall see
what I can do, father," said the blacksmith; so away he ran after the coach, took all four
shoes off the feet of one of the horses whilst he was galloping, and put him on four new shoes
without stopping him. "You are a fine fellow, and as clever as your brother," said his father;
"I do not know to which I ought to give the house."

Then the third son said, "Father, let me have my turn, if you please;" and, as it was beginning
to rain, he drew his sword, and flourished it backwards and forwards above his head so fast
that not a drop fell upon him. It rained still harder and harder, till at last it came down
in torrents; but he only flourished his sword faster and faster, and remained as dry as if
he were sitting in a house.  When his father saw this he was amazed, and said, "This is the
master-piece, the house is yours!"

His brothers were satisfied with this, as was agreed beforehand; and, as they loved one another
very much, they all three stayed together in the house, followed their trades, and, as they
had learnt them so well and were so clever, they earned a great deal of money. Thus they lived
together happily until they grew old; and at last, when one of them fell sick and died, the
two others grieved so sorely about it that they also fell ill, and soon after died. And because
they had been so clever, and had loved one another so much, they were all laid in the same grave.

125 The Devil and his Grandmother

There was a great war, and the King had many soldiers, but gave them small pay, so small that
they could not live upon it, so three of them agreed among themselves to desert. One of them
said to the others, "If we are caught we shall be hanged on the gallows; how shall we manage
it?" Another said, "Look at that great cornfield, if we were to hide ourselves there, no one
could find us; the troops are not allowed to enter it, and to-morrow they are to march away."
They crept into the corn, only the troops did not march away, but remained lying all round
about it. They stayed in the corn for two days and two nights, and were so hungry that they
all but died, but if they had come out, their death would have been certain. Then said they,
"What is the use of our deserting if we have to perish miserably here?" But now a fiery dragon
came flying through the air, and it came down to them, and asked why they had concealed themselves
there? They answered, "We are three soldiers who have deserted because the pay was so bad,
and now we shall have to die of hunger if we stay here, or to dangle on the gallows if we go
out." "If you will serve me for seven years," said the dragon, "I will convey you through the
army so that no one shall seize you." "We have no choice and are compelled to accept," they
replied. Then the dragon caught hold of them with his claws, and carried them away through
the air over the army, and put them down again on the earth far from it; but the dragon was
no other than the Devil. He gave them a small whip and said, "Whip with it and crack it, and
then as much gold will spring up round about as you can wish for; then you can live like great
lords, keep horses, and drive your carriages, but when the seven years have come to an end,
you are my property." Then he put before them a book which they were all three forced to sign.
"I will, however, then set you a riddle," said he, "and if you can guess that, you shall be
free, and released from my power." Then the dragon flew away from them, and they went away
with their whip, had gold in plenty, ordered themselves rich apparel, and travelled about the
world. Wherever they were they lived in pleasure and magnificence, rode on horseback, drove
in carriages, ate and drank, but did nothing wicked.  The time slipped quickly away, and when
the seven years were coming to an end, two of them were terribly anxious and alarmed; but the
third took the affair easily, and said, "Brothers, fear nothing, my head is sharp enough, I
shall guess the riddle." They went out into the open country and sat down, and the two pulled
sorrowful faces. Then an aged woman came up to them who inquired why they were so sad? "Alas!"
said they, "how can that concern you? After all, you cannot help us." "Who knows?" said she.
"Confide your trouble to me." So they told her that they had been the Devil's servants for
nearly seven years, and that he had provided them with gold as plentifully as if it had been
blackberries, but that they had sold themselves to him, and were forfeited to him, if at the
end of the seven years they could not guess a riddle. The old woman said, "If you are to be
saved, one of you must go into the forest, there he will come to a fallen rock which looks
like a little house, he must enter that, and then he will obtain help." The two melancholy
ones thought to themselves, "That will still not save us," and stayed where they were, but
the third, the merry one, got up and walked on in the forest until he found the rock-house.
In the little house, however, a very aged woman was sitting, who was the Devil's grandmother,
and asked the soldier where he came from, and what he wanted there? He told her everything
that had happened, and as he pleased her well, she had pity on him, and said she would help
him. She lifted up a great stone which lay above a cellar, and said, "Conceal thyself there,
thou canst hear everything that is said here; only sit still, and do not stir. When the dragon
comes, I will question him about the riddle, he tells everything to me, so listen carefully
to his answer." At twelve o'clock at night, the dragon came flying thither, and asked for his
dinner. The grandmother laid the table, and served up food and drink, so that he was pleased,
and they ate and drank together. In the course of conversation, she asked him what kind of
a day he had had, and how many souls he had got? "Nothing went very well to-day," he answered,
"but I have laid hold of three soldiers, I have them safe." "Indeed! three soldiers, that's
something like, but they may escape you yet." The Devil said mockingly, "They are mine! I will
set them a riddle, which they will never in this world be able to guess!" "What riddle is that?"
she inquired. "I will tell you. In the great North Sea lies a dead dog-fish, that shall be
your roast meat, and the rib of a whale shall be your silver spoon, and a hollow old horse's
hoof shall be your wine-glass." When the Devil had gone to bed, the old grandmother raised
up the stone, and let out the soldier. "Hast thou paid particular attention to everything?"
"Yes," said he, "I know enough, and will contrive to save myself." Then he had to go back another
way, through the window, secretly and with all speed to his companions. He told them how the
Devil had been overreached by the old grandmother, and how he had learned the answer to the
riddle from him. Then they were all joyous, and of good cheer, and took the whip and whipped
so much gold for themselves that it ran all over the ground. When the seven years had fully
gone by, the Devil came with the book, showed the signatures, and said, "I will take you with
me to hell. There you shall have a meal! If you can guess what kind of roast meat you will
have to eat, you shall be free and released from your bargain, and may keep the whip as well."
Then the first soldier began and said, "In the great North Sea lies a dead dog-fish, that no
doubt is the roast meat." The Devil was angry, and began to mutter, "Hm! hm! hm!" And asked
the second, "But what will your spoon be?" "The rib of a whale, that is to be our silver spoon."
The Devil made a wry face, again growled, "Hm! hm! hm!" and said to the third, "And do you
also know what your wine-glass is to be?" "An old horse's hoof is to be our wineglass." Then
the Devil flew away with a loud cry, and had no more power over them, but the three kept the
whip, whipped as much money for themselves with it as they wanted, and lived happily to their end.

126 Ferdinand the Faithful

Once on a time lived a man and a woman who so long as they were rich had no children, but when
they were poor they had a little boy. They could, however, find no godfather for him, so the
man said he would just go to another place to see if he could get one there. As he went, a
poor man met him, who asked him where he was going. He said he was going to see if he could
get a godfather, that he was poor, so no one would stand as godfather for him. "Oh," said the
poor man, "you are poor, and I am poor; I will be godfather for you, but I am so ill off I
can give the child nothing. Go home and tell the nurse that she is to come to the church with
the child."

When they all got to the church together, the beggar was already there, and he gave the child
the name of Ferdinand the Faithful.

When he was going out of the church, the beggar said, "Now go home, I can give you nothing,
and you likewise ought to give me nothing." But he gave a key to the nurse, and told her when
she got home she was to give it to the father, who was to take care of it until the child was
fourteen years old, and then he was to go on the heath where there was a castle which the key
would fit, and that all which was therein should belong to him. Now when the child was seven
years old and had grown very big, he once went to play with some other boys, and each of them
boasted that he had got more from his godfather than the other; but the child could say nothing,
and was vexed, and went home and said to his father, "Did I get nothing at all, then, from
my godfather?" "Oh, yes," said the father, "thou hadst a key if there is a castle standing
on the heath, just go to it and open it." Then the boy went thither, but no castle was to be
seen, or heard of.

After seven years more, when he was fourteen years old, he again went thither, and there stood
the castle. When he had opened it, there was nothing within but a horse, a white one. Then
the boy was so full of joy because he had a horse, that he mounted on it and galloped back
to his father. "Now I have a white horse, and I will travel," said he. So he set out, and as
he was on his way, a pen was lying on the road. At first he thought he would pick it up, but
then again he thought to himself, "Thou shouldst leave it lying there; thou wilt easily find
a pen where thou art going, if thou hast need of one." As he was thus riding away, a voice
called after him, "Ferdinand the Faithful, take it with thee." He looked around, but saw no
one, then he went back again and picked it up. When he had ridden a little way farther, he
passed by a lake, and a fish was lying on the bank, gasping and panting for breath, so he said,
"Wait, my dear fish, I will help thee get into the water," and he took hold of it by the tail,
and threw it into the lake.  Then the fish put its head out of the water and said, "As thou
hast helped me out of the mud I will give thee a flute; when thou art in any need, play on
it, and then I will help thee, and if ever thou lettest anything fall in the water, just play
and I will reach it out to thee." Then he rode away, and there came to him a man who asked
him where he was going. "Oh, to the next place." Then what his name was? "Ferdinand the Faithful."
"So! then we have got almost the same name, I am called Ferdinand the Unfaithful." And they
both set out to the inn in the nearest place.

Now it was unfortunate that Ferdinand the Unfaithful knew everything that the other had ever
thought and everything he was about to do; he knew it by means of all kinds of wicked arts.
There was, however, in the inn an honest girl, who had a bright face and behaved very prettily.
She fell in love with Ferdinand the Faithful because he was a handsome man, and she asked him
whither he was going. "Oh, I am just travelling round about," said he. Then she said he ought
to stay there, for the King of that country wanted an attendant or an outrider, and he ought
to enter his service. He answered he could not very well go to any one like that and offer
himself. Then said the maiden, "Oh, but I will soon do that for you." And so she went straight
to the King, and told him that she knew of an excellent servant for him. He was well pleased
with that, and had Ferdinand the Faithful brought to him, and wanted to make him his servant.
He, however, liked better to be an outrider, for where his horse was, there he also wanted
to be, so the King made him an outrider. When Ferdinand the Unfaithful learnt that, he said
to the girl, "What! Dost thou help him and not me?" "Oh," said the girl, "I will help thee
too." She thought, "I must keep friends with that man, for he is not to be trusted." She went
to the King, and offered him as a servant, and the King was willing.

Now when the King met his lords in the morning, he always lamented and said, "Oh, if I had
but my love with me." Ferdinand the Unfaithful was, however, always hostile to Ferdinand the
Faithful. So once, when the King was complaining thus, he said, "You have the outrider, send
him away to get her, and if he does not do it, his head must be struck off." Then the King
sent for Ferdinand the Faithful, and told him that there was, in this place or in that place,
a girl he loved, and that he was to bring her to him, and if he did not do it he should die.

Ferdinand the Faithful went into the stable to his white horse, and complained and lamented,
"Oh, what an unhappy man I am!" Then someone behind him cried, "Ferdinand the Faithful, why
weepest thou?" He looked round but saw no one, and went on lamenting; "Oh, my dear little white
horse, now must I leave thee; now must I die." Then some one cried once more, "Ferdinand the
Faithful, why weepest thou?" Then for the first time he was aware that it was his little white
horse who was putting that question. "Dost thou speak, my little white horse; canst thou do
that?" And again, he said, "I am to go to this place and to that, and am to bring the bride;
canst thou tell me how I am to set about it?" Then answered the little white horse, "Go thou
to the King, and say if he will give thou what thou must have, thou wilt get her for him. If
he will give thee a ship full of meat, and a ship full of bread, it will succeed. Great giants
dwell on the lake, and if thou takest no meat with thee for them, they will tear thee to pieces,
and there are the large birds which would pick the eyes out of thy head if thou hadst no bread
for them." Then the King made all the butchers in the land kill, and all the bakers bake, that
the ships might be filled. When they were full, the little white horse said to Ferdinand the
Faithful, "Now mount me, and go with me into the ship, and then when the giants come, say,

 "Peace, peace, my dear little giants,
 I have had thought of ye,

 Something I have brought for ye;"

and when the birds come, thou shalt again say,

 "Peace, peace, my dear little birds,
 I have had thought of ye,

 Something I have brought for ye;"

then they will do nothing to thee, and when thou comest to the castle, the giants will help
thee. Then go up to the castle, and take a couple of giants with thee.  There the princess
lies sleeping; thou must, however, not awaken her, but the giants must lift her up, and carry
her in her bed to the ship." And now everything took place as the little white horse had said,
and Ferdinand the Faithful gave the giants and the birds what he had brought with him for them,
and that made the giants willing, and they carried the princess in her bed to the King. And
when she came to the King, she said she could not live, she must have her writings, they had
been left in her castle. Then by the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful, Ferdinand the
Faithful was called, and the King told him he must fetch the writings from the castle, or he
should die. Then he went once more into the stable, and bemoaned himself and said, "Oh, my
dear little white horse, now I am to go away again, how am I to do it?" Then the little white
horse said he was just to load the ships full again. So it happened again as it had happened
before, and the giants and the birds were satisfied, and made gentle by the meat. When they
came to the castle, the white horse told Ferdinand the Faithful that he must go in, and that
on the table in the princess's bed-room lay the writings. And Ferdinand the Faithful went in,
and fetched them. When they were on the lake, he let his pen fall into the water; then said
the white horse, "Now I cannot help thee at all." But he remembered his flute, and began to
play on it, and the fish came with the pen in its mouth, and gave it to him. So he took the
writings to the castle, where the wedding was celebrated.

The Queen, however, did not love the King because he had no nose, but she would have much liked
to love Ferdinand the Faithful. Once, therefore, when all the lords of the court were together,
the Queen said she could do feats of magic, that she could cut off any one's head and put it
on again, and that one of them ought just to try it. But none of them would be the first, so
Ferdinand the Faithful, again at the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful, undertook it
and she hewed off his head, and put it on again for him, and it healed together directly, so
that it looked as if he had a red thread round his throat. Then the King said to her, "My child,
and where hast thou learnt that?" "Yes," she said, "I understand the art; shall I just try
it on thee also?" "Oh, yes," said he. But she cut off his head, and did not put it on again;
but pretended that she could not get it on, and that it would not keep fixed. Then the King
was buried, but she married Ferdinand the Faithful.

He, however, always rode on his white horse, and once when he was seated on it, it told him
that he was to go on to the heath which he knew, and gallop three times round it. And when
he had done that, the white horse stood up on its hind legs, and was changed into a King's son.

127 The Iron Stove

In the days when wishing was still of some use, a King's son was bewitched by an old witch,
and shut up in an iron stove in a forest. There he passed many years, and no one could deliver
him. Then a King's daughter came into the forest, who had lost herself, and could not find
her father's kingdom again. After she had wandered about for nine days, she at length came
to the iron stove.  Then a voice came forth from it, and asked her, "Whence comest thou, and
whither goest, thou?" She answered, "I have lost my father's kingdom, and cannot get home again."
Then a voice inside the iron stove said, "I will help thee to get home again, and that indeed
most swiftly, if thou wilt promise to do what I desire of thee. I am the son of a far greater
King than thy father, and I will marry thee."

Then was she afraid, and thought, "Good heavens! What can I do with an iron stove?" But as
she much wished to get home to her father, she promised to do as he desired. But he said, "Thou
shalt return here, and bring a knife with thee, and scrape a hole in the iron." Then he gave
her a companion who walked near her, but did not speak, but in two hours he took her home;
there was great joy in the castle when the King's daughter came home, and the old King fell
on her neck and kissed her. She, however, was sorely troubled, and said, "Dear father, what
I have suffered! I should never have got home again from the great wild forest, if I had not
come to an iron stove, but I have been forced to give my word that I will go back to it, set
it free, and marry it." Then the old King was so terrified that he all but fainted, for he
had but this one daughter. They therefore resolved they would send, in her place, the miller's
daughter, who was very beautiful. When day dawned, a voice in the stove said, "It seems to
me it is day outside." Then she answered, "It seems so to me too; I fancy I hear the noise
of my father's mill."

"So thou art a miller's daughter! Then go thy way at once, and let the King's daughter come
here." Then she went away at once, and told the old King that the man outside there, would
have none of her he wanted the King's daughter.  They, however, still had a swine-herd's daughter,
who was even prettier than the miller's daughter, and they determined to give her a piece of
gold to go to the iron stove instead of the King's daughter. So she was taken thither, and
she also had to scrape for four-and-twenty hours. She, however, made nothing of it. When day
broke, a voice inside the stove cried, "It seems to me it is day outside!" Then answered she,
"So it seems to me also; I fancy I hear my father's horn blowing."

"Then thou art a swine-herd's daughter! Go away at once, and tell the King's daughter to come,
and tell her all must be done as promised, and if she does not come, everything in the kingdom
shall be ruined and destroyed, and not one stone be left standing on another." When she got
there, she began to scrape, and the iron gave way, and when two hours were over, she had already
scraped a small hole.  Then she peeped in, and saw a youth so handsome, and so brilliant with
gold and with precious jewels, that her very soul was delighted. Now, therefore, she went on
scraping, and made the hole so large that he was able to get out. Then said he, "Thou art mine,
and I am thine; thou art my bride, and hast released me." He wanted to take her away with him
to his kingdom, but she entreated him to let her go once again to her father, and the King's
son allowed her to do so, but she was not to say more to her father than three words, and then
she was to come back again. So she went home, but she spoke more than three words, and instantly
the iron stove disappeared, and was taken far away over glass mountains and piercing swords;
but the King's son was set free, and no longer shut up in it. After this she bade good-bye
to her father, took some money with her, but not much, and went back to the great forest, and
looked for the iron stove, but it was nowhere to be found. For nine days she sought it, and
then her hunger grew so great that she did not know what to do, for she could no longer live.
When it was evening, she seated herself in a small tree, and made up her mind to spend the
night there, as she was afraid of wild beasts. When midnight drew near she saw in the distance
a small light, and thought, "Ah, there I should be saved!" She got down from the tree, and
went towards the light, but on the way she prayed. Then she came to a little old house, and
much grass had grown all about it, and a small heap of wood lay in front of it. She thought,
"Ah, whither have I come," and peeped in through the window, but she saw nothing inside but
toads, big and little, except a table well covered with wine and roast meat, and the plates
and glasses were of silver. Then she took courage, and knocked at the door. The fat toad cried,

 "Little green waiting-maid,
 Waiting-maid with the limping leg,
 Little dog of the limping leg,
 Hop hither and thither,

 And quickly see who is without:"

and a small toad came walking by and opened the door to her. When she entered, they all bade
her welcome, and she was forced to sit down. They asked, "Where hast thou come from, and whither
art thou going?" Then she related all that had befallen her, and how because she had transgressed
the order which had been given her not to say more than three words, the stove, and the King's
son also, had disappeared, and now she was about to seek him over hill and dale until she found
him.

Then the little one went and brought the box. After this they gave her meat and drink, and
took her to a well-made bed, which felt like silk and velvet, and she laid herself therein,
in God's name, and slept. When morning came she arose, and the old toad gave her three needles
out of the great box which she was to take with her; they would be needed by her, for she had
to cross a high glass mountain, and go over three piercing swords and a great lake. If she
did all this she would get her lover back again. Then she gave her three things, which she
was to take the greatest care of, namely, three large needles, a plough-wheel, and three nuts.
With these she travelled onwards, and when she came to the glass mountain which was so slippery,
she stuck the three needles first behind her feet and then before them, and so got over it,
and when she was over it, she hid them in a place which she marked carefully. After this she
came to the three piercing swords, and then she seated herself on her plough-wheel, and rolled
over them. At last she arrived in front of a great lake, and when she had crossed it, she came
to a large and beautiful castle. She went and asked for a place; she was a poor girl, she said,
and would like to be hired. She knew, however, that the King's son whom she had released from
the iron stove in the great forest was in the castle. Then she was taken as a scullery-maid
at low wages. But, already the King's son had another maiden by his side whom he wanted to
marry, for he thought that she had long been dead.

In the evening, when she had washed up and was done, she felt in her pocket and found the three
nuts which the old toad had given her. She cracked one with her teeth, and was going to eat
the kernel when lo and behold there was a stately royal garment in it! But when the bride heard
of this she came and asked for the dress, and wanted to buy it, and said, "It is not a dress
for a servant-girl." But she said no, she would not sell it, but if the bride would grant her
one thing she should have it, and that was, leave to sleep one night in her bridegroom's chamber.
The bride gave her permission because the dress was so pretty, and she had never had one like
it. When it was evening she said to her bridegroom, "That silly girl will sleep in thy room."
"If thou art willing so am I," said he. She, however, gave him a glass of wine in which she
had poured a sleeping-draught.  So the bridegroom and the scullery-maid went to sleep in the
room, and he slept so soundly that she could not waken him.

She wept the whole night and cried, "I set thee free when thou wert in an iron stove in the
wild forest, I sought thee, and walked over a glass mountain, and three sharp swords, and a
great lake before I found thee, and yet thou wilt not hear me!"

The servants sat by the chamber-door, and heard how she thus wept the whole night through,
and in the morning they told it to their lord. And the next evening when she had washed up,
she opened the second nut, and a far more beautiful dress was within it, and when the bride
beheld it, she wished to buy that also.  But the girl would not take money, and begged that
she might once again sleep in the bridegroom's chamber. The bride, however, gave him a sleeping-drink,
and he slept so soundly that he could hear nothing. And on the third evening, when she had
washed up, she opened the third nut, and within it was a still more beautiful dress which was
stiff with pure gold. When the bride saw that she wanted to have it, but the maiden only gave
it up on condition that she might for the third time sleep in the bridegroom's apartment. The
King's son was, however, on his guard, and threw the sleeping-draught away. Now, therefore,
when she began to weep and to cry, "Dearest love, I set thee free when thou wert in the iron
stove in the terrible wild forest," the King's son leapt up and said, "Thou art the true one,
thou art mine, and I am thine." Thereupon, while it was still night, he got into a carriage
with her, and they took away the false bride's clothes so that she could not get up. When they
came to the great lake, they sailed across it, and when they reached the three sharp-cutting
swords they seated themselves on the plough-wheel, and when they got to the glass mountain
they thrust the three needles in it, and so at length they got to the little old house; but
when they went inside that, it was a great castle, and the toads were all disenchanted, and
were King's children, and full of happiness. Then the wedding was celebrated, and the King's
son and the princess remained in the castle, which was much larger than the castles of their
fathers. As, however, the old King grieved at being left alone, they fetched him away, and
brought him to live with them, and they had two kingdoms, and lived in happy wedlock.

 A mouse did run,
 This story is done.

128 The Lazy Spinner

In a certain village there once lived a man and his wife, and the wife was so idle that she
would never work at anything; whatever her husband gave her to spin, she did not get done,
and what she did spin she did not wind, but let it all remain entangled in a heap. If the man
scolded her, she was always ready with her tongue, and said, "Well, how should I wind it, when
I have no reel? Just you go into the forest and get me one." "If that is all," said the man,
"then I will go into the forest, and get some wood for making reels." Then the woman was afraid
that if he had the wood he would make her a reel of it, and she would have to wind her yarn
off, and then begin to spin again. She bethought herself a little, and then a lucky idea occurred
to her, and she secretly followed the man into the forest, and when he had climbed into a tree
to choose and cut the wood, she crept into the thicket below where he could not see her, and cried,

 "He who cuts wood for reels shall die,
 And he who winds, shall perish."

The man listened, laid down his axe for a moment, and began to consider what that could mean.
"Hollo," he said at last, "what can that have been; my ears must have been singing, I won't
alarm myself for nothing." So he again seized the axe, and began to hew, then again there came
a cry from below:

 "He who cuts wood for reels shall die,
 And he who winds, shall perish."

He stopped, and felt afraid and alarmed, and pondered over the circumstance.  But when a few
moments had passed, he took heart again, and a third time he stretched out his hand for the
axe, and began to cut. But some one called out a third time, and said loudly,

 "He who cuts wood for reels shall die,
 And he who winds, shall perish."

That was enough for him, and all inclination had departed from him, so he hastily descended
the tree, and set out on his way home. The woman ran as fast as she could by by-ways so as
to get home first. So when he entered the parlour, she put on an innocent look as if nothing
had happened, and said, "Well, have you brought a nice piece of wood for reels?" "No," said
he, "I see very well that winding won't do," and told her what had happened to him in the forest,
and from that time forth left her in peace about it. Neverthless after some time, the man again
began to complain of the disorder in the house. "Wife," said he, "it is really a shame that
the spun yarn should lie there all entangled!" "I'll tell you what," said she, "as we still
don't come by any reel, go you up into the loft, and I will stand down below, and will throw
the yarn up to you, and you will throw it down to me, and so we shall get a skein after all."
"Yes, that will do," said the man. So they did that, and when it was done, he said, "The yarn
is in skeins, now it must be boiled." The woman was again distressed; She certainly said, "Yes,
we will boil it next morning early." but she was secretly contriving another trick.

Early in the morning she got up, lighted a fire, and put the kettle on, only instead of the
yarn, she put in a lump of tow, and let it boil. After that she went to the man who was still
lying in bed, and said to him, "I must just go out, you must get up and look after the yarn
which is in the kettle on the fire, but you must be at hand at once; mind that, for if the
cock should happen to crow, and you are not attending to the yarn, it will become tow." The
man was willing and took good care not to loiter. He got up as quickly as he could, and went
into the kitchen. But when he reached the kettle and peeped in, he saw, to his horror, nothing
but a lump of tow. Then the poor man was as still as a mouse, thinking he had neglected it,
and was to blame, and in future said no more about yarn and spinning. But you yourself must
own she was an odious woman!

129 The Four Skilful Brothers

There was once a poor man who had four sons, and when they were grown up, he said to them,
"My dear children, you must now go out into the world, for I have nothing to give you, so set
out, and go to some distance and learn a trade, and see how you can make your way." So the
four brothers took their sticks, bade their father farewell, and went through the town-gate
together. When they had travelled about for some time, they came to a cross-way which branched
off in four different directions. Then said the eldest, "Here we must separate, but on this
day four years, we will meet each other again at this spot, and in the meantime we will seek
our fortunes."

Then each of them went his way, and the eldest met a man who asked him where he was going,
and what he was intending to do? "I want to learn a trade," he replied. Then the other said,
"Come with me, and be a thief." "No," he answered, "that is no longer regarded as a reputable
trade, and the end of it is that one has to swing on the gallows." "Oh," said the man, "you
need not be afraid of the gallows; I will only teach you to get such things as no other man
could ever lay hold of, and no one will ever detect you." So he allowed himself to be talked
into it, and while with the man became an accomplished thief, and so dexterous that nothing
was safe from him, if he once desired to have it. The second brother met a man who put the
same question to him what he wanted to learn in the world. "I don't know yet," he replied.
"Then come with me, and be an astronomer; there is nothing better than that, for nothing is
hid from you." He liked the idea, and became such a skillful astronomer that when he had learnt
everything, and was about to travel onwards, his master gave him a telescope and said to him,
"With that you canst thou see whatsoever takes place either on earth or in heaven, and nothing
can remain concealed from thee." A huntsman took the third brother into training, and gave
him such excellent instruction in everything which related to huntsmanship, that he became
an experienced hunter.  When he went away, his master gave him a gun and said, "It will never
fail you; whatsoever you aim at, you are certain to hit." The youngest brother also met a man
who spoke to him, and inquired what his intentions were. "Would you not like to be a tailor?"
said he. "Not that I know of," said the youth; "sitting doubled up from morning till night,
driving the needle and the goose backwards and forwards, is not to my taste." "Oh, but you
are speaking in ignorance," answered the man; "with me you would learn a very different kind
of tailoring, which is respectable and proper, and for the most part very honorable." So he
let himself be persuaded, and went with the man, and learnt his art from the very beginning.
When they parted, the man gave the youth a needle, and said, "With this you can sew together
whatever is given you, whether it is as soft as an egg or as hard as steel; and it will all
become one piece of stuff, so that no seam will be visible."

When the appointed four years were over, the four brothers arrived at the same time at the
cross-roads, embraced and kissed each other, and returned home to their father. "So now," said
he, quite delighted, "the wind has blown you back again to me." They told him of all that had
happened to them, and that each had learnt his own trade. Now they were sitting just in front
of the house under a large tree, and the father said, "I will put you all to the test, and
see what you can do." Then he looked up and said to his second son, "Between two branches up
at the top of this tree, there is a chaffinch's nest, tell me how many eggs there are in it?"
The astronomer took his glass, looked up, and said, "There are five." Then the father said
to the eldest, "Fetch the eggs down without disturbing the bird which is sitting hatching them."
The skillful thief climbed up, and took the five eggs from beneath the bird, which never observed
what he was doing, and remained quietly sitting where she was, and brought them down to his
father. The father took them, and put one of them on each corner of the table, and the fifth
in the middle, and said to the huntsman, "With one shot thou shalt shoot me the five eggs in
two, through the middle." The huntsman aimed, and shot the eggs, all five as the father had
desired, and that at one shot. He certainly must have had some of the powder for shooting round
corners. "Now it's your turn," said the father to the fourth son; "you shall sew the eggs together
again, and the young birds that are inside them as well, and you must do it so that they are
not hurt by the shot."  The tailor brought his needle, and sewed them as his father wished.
When he had done this the thief had to climb up the tree again, and carry them to the nest,
and put them back again under the bird without her being aware of it. The bird sat her full
time, and after a few days the young ones crept out, and they had a red line round their necks
where they had been sewn together by the tailor.

"Well," said the old man to his sons, "I begin to think you are worth more than breen clover;
you have used your time well, and learnt something good. I can't say which of you deserves
the most praise. That will be proved if you have but an early opportunity of using your talents."
Not long after this, there was a great uproar in the country, for the King's daughter was carried
off by a dragon. The King was full of trouble about it, both by day and night, and caused it
to be proclaimed that whosoever brought her back should have her to wife. The four brothers
said to each other, "This would be a fine opportunity for us to show what we can do!" and resolved
to go forth together and liberate the King's daughter. "I will soon know where she is," said
the astronomer, and looked through his telescope and said, "I see her already, she is far away
from here on a rock in the sea, and the dragon is beside her watching her." Then he went to
the King, and asked for a ship for himself and his brothers, and sailed with them over the
sea until they came to the rock. There the King's daughter was sitting, and the dragon was
lying asleep on her lap. The huntsman said, "I dare not fire, I should kill the beautiful maiden
at the same time." "Then I will try my art," said the thief, and he crept thither and stole
her away from under the dragon, so quietly and dexterously, that the monster never remarked
it, but went on snoring.  Full of joy, they hurried off with her on board ship, and steered
out into the open sea; but the dragon, who when he awoke had found no princess there, followed
them, and came snorting angrily through the air. Just as he was circling above the ship, and
about to descend on it, the huntsman shouldered his gun, and shot him to the heart. The monster
fell down dead, but was so large and powerful that his fall shattered the whole ship. Fortunately,
however, they laid hold of a couple of planks, and swam about the wide sea. Then again they
were in great peril, but the tailor, who was not idle, took his wondrous needle, and with a
few stitches sewed the planks together, and they seated themselves upon them, and collected
together all the fragments of the vessel. Then he sewed these so skilfully together, that in
a very short time the ship was once more seaworthy, and they could go home again in safety.

When the King once more saw his daughter, there were great rejoicings. He said to the four
brothers, "One of you shall have her to wife, but which of you it is to be you must settle
among yourselves." Then a warm contest arose among them, for each of them preferred his own
claim. The astronomer said, "If I had not seen the princess, all your arts would have been
useless, so she is mine." The thief said, "What would have been the use of your seeing, if
I had not got her away from the dragon? so she is mine." The huntsman said, "You and the princess,
and all of you, would have been torn to pieces by the dragon if my ball had not hit him, so
she is mine." The tailor said, "And if I, by my art, had not sewn the ship together again,
you would all of you have been miserably drowned, so she is mine." Then the King uttered this
saying, "Each of you has an equal right, and as all of you cannot have the maiden, none of
you shall have her, but I will give to each of you, as a reward, half a kingdom." The brothers
were pleased with this decision, and said, "It is better thus than that we should be at variance
with each other." Then each of them received half a kingdom, and they lived with their father
in the greatest happiness as long as it pleased God. However, as Two-eyes saw just as other
human beings did, her sisters and her mother could not endure her. They said to her, "Thou,
with thy two eyes, art no better than the common people; thou dost not belong to us!" They
pushed her about, and threw old clothes to her, and gave her nothing to eat but what they left,
and did everything that they could to make her unhappy. It came to pass that Two-eyes had to
go out into the fields and tend the goat, but she was still quite hungry, because her sisters
had given her so little to eat. So she sat down on a ridge and began to weep, and so bitterly
that two streams ran down from her eyes. And once when she looked up in her grief, a woman
was standing beside her, who said, "Why art thou weeping, little Two-eyes?" Two-Eyes answered,
"Have I not reason to weep, when I have two eyes like other people, and my sisters and mother
hate me for it, and push me from one corner to another, throw old clothes at me, and give me
nothing to eat but the scraps they leave? To-day they have given me so little that I am still
quite hungry." Then the wise woman said, "Wipe away thy tears, Two-eyes, and I will tell thee
something to stop thee ever suffering from hunger again; just say to thy goat,

 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
 Cover the table with something to eat,"

and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before thee, with the most delicious food
upon it of which thou mayst eat as much as thou art inclined for, and when thou hast had enough,
and hast no more need of the little table, just say,

 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
 And take the table quite away,"

and then it will vanish again from thy sight." Hereupon the wise woman departed.  But Two-eyes
thought, "I must instantly make a trial, and see if what she said is true, for I am far too
hungry," and she said,

 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
 Cover the table with something to eat,"

and scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table, covered with a white cloth, was
standing there, and on it was a plate with a knife and fork, and a silver spoon; and the most
delicious food was there also, warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the kitchen.
Then Two-eyes said the shortest prayer she knew, "Lord God, be with us always, Amen," and helped
herself to some food, and enjoyed it. And when she was satisfied, she said, as the wise woman
had taught her,

 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
 And take the table quite away,"

and immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again. "That is a delightful
way of keeping house!" thought Two-eyes, and was quite glad and happy.

In the evening, when she went home with her goat, she found a small earthenware dish with some
food, which her sisters had set ready for her, but she did not touch it. Next day she again
went out with her goat, and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to her,
lying untouched. The first and second time that she did this, her sisters did not remark it
at all, but as it happened every time, they did observe it, and said, "There is something wrong
about Two-eyes, she always leaves her food untasted, and she used to eat up everything that
was given her; she must have discovered other ways of getting food." In order that they might
learn the truth, they resolved to send One-eye with Two-eyes when she went to drive her goat
to the pasture, to observe what Two-eyes did when she was there, and whether any one brought
her anything to eat and drink. So when Two-eyes set out the next time, One-eye went to her
and said, "I will go with you to the pasture, and see that the goat is well taken care of,
and driven where there is food." But Two-eyes knew what was in One-eye's mind, and drove the
goat into high grass and said, "Come, One-eye, we will sit down, and I will sing something
to you." One-eye sat down and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and the heat of the sun,
and Two-eyes sang constantly,

 "One eye, wakest thou? So
Three-eyes went to Two-eyes, and said, "I will go with you and see if
the goat is taken proper care of, and driven where there is food." But
Two-eyes knew what was in Three-eyes' mind, and drove the goat into high
grass and said, "We will sit down, and I will sing something to you,
Three-eyes."
 Two eyes, are you sleeping?"

Then two of the eyes which Three-eyes had, shut and fell asleep, but the third, as it had not
been named in the song, did not sleep. It is true that Three-eyes shut it, but only in her
cunning, to pretend it was asleep too, but it blinked, and could see everything very well.
And when Two-eyes thought that Three-eyes was fast asleep, she used her little charm,

 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
 Cover the table with something to eat,"

and ate and drank as much as her heart desired, and then ordered the table to go away again,

 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
 And take the table quite away,"

and Three-eyes had seen everything. Then Two-eyes came to her, waked her and said, "Have you
been asleep, Three-eyes? You are a good care-taker! Come, we will go home." And when they got
home, Two-eyes again did not eat, and Three-eyes said to the mother, "Now, I know why that
high-minded thing there does not eat. When she is out, she says to the goat,

 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
 Cover the table with something to eat,"

and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of food, much better than
any we have here, and when she has eaten all she wants, she says,

 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
 And take the table quite away,"

and all disappears. I watched everything closely. She put two of my eyes to sleep by using
a certain form of words, but luckily the one in my forehead kept awake." Then the envious mother
cried, "Dost thou want to fare better than we do? The desire shall pass away," and she fetched
a butcher's knife, and thrust it into the heart of the goat, which fell down dead.

When Two-eyes saw that, she went out full of trouble, seated herself on the ridge of grass
at the edge of the field, and wept bitter tears. Suddenly the wise woman once more stood by
her side, and said, "Two-eyes, why art thou weeping?" "Have I not reason to weep?" she answered.
"The goat which covered the table for me every day when I spoke your charm, has been killed
by my mother, and now I shall again have to bear hunger and want." The wise woman said, "Two-eyes,
I will give thee a piece of good advice; ask thy sisters to give thee the entrails of the slaughtered
goat, and bury them in the ground in front of the house, and thy fortune will be made." Then
they laughed and said, "If that's all you want, you can have it." So Two-eyes took the entrails
and buried them quietly in the evening, in front of the house-door, as the wise woman had counselled
her to do.

Next morning, when they all awoke, and went to the house-door, there stood a strangely magnificent
tree with leaves of silver, and fruit of gold hanging among them, so that in all the wide world
there was nothing more beautiful or precious.  They did not know how the tree could have come
there during the night, but Two-eyes saw that it had grown up out of the entrails of the goat,
for it was standing on the exact spot where she had buried them. Three-eyes was not more skilful,
and might search as she liked, but the golden apples always escaped her. At length the mother
grew impatient, and climbed up herself, but could get hold of the fruit no better than One-eye
and Three-eyes, for she always clutched empty air. Then said Two-eyes, "I will just go up,
perhaps I may succeed better." The sisters cried, "You indeed, with your two eyes, what can
you do?" But Two-eyes climbed up, and the golden apples did get out of her way, but came into
her hand of their own accord, so that she could pluck them one after the other, and brought
a whole apronful down with her. The mother took them away from her, and instead of treating
poor Two-eyes any better for this, she and One-eye and Three-eyes were only envious, because
Two-eyes alone had been able to get the fruit, and they treated her still more cruelly.

It so befell that once when they were all standing together by the tree, a young knight came
up. "Quick, Two-eyes," cried the two sisters, "creep under this, and don't disgrace us!" and
with all speed they turned an empty barrel which was standing close by the tree over poor Two-eyes,
and they pushed the golden apples which she had been gathering, under it too. When the knight
came nearer he was a handsome lord, who stopped and admired the magnificent gold and silver
tree, and said to the two sisters, "To whom does this fine tree belong? Any one who would bestow
one branch of it on me might in return for it ask whatsoever he desired." Then One-eye and
Three-eyes replied that the tree belonged to them, and that they would give him a branch. They
both took great trouble, but they were not able to do it, for the branches and fruit both moved
away from them every time. Then said the knight, "It is very strange that the tree should belong
to you, and that you should still not be able to break a piece off."  They again asserted that
the tree was their property. The knight, however, desired to see her, and cried, "Two-eyes,
come forth." Then Two-eyes, quite comforted, came from beneath the barrel, and the knight was
surprised at her great beauty, and said, "Thou, Two-eyes, canst certainly break off a branch
from the tree for me." "Yes," replied Two-eyes, "that I certainly shall be able to do, for
the tree belongs to me." And she climbed up, and with the greatest ease broke off a branch
with beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit, and gave it to the knight. Then said the knight,
"Two-eyes, what shall I give thee for it?" "Alas!" answered Two-eyes, "I suffer from hunger
and thirst, grief and want, from early morning till late night; if you would take me with you,
and deliver me from these things, I should be happy." So the knight lifted Two-eyes on to his
horse, and took her home with him to his father's castle, and there he gave her beautiful clothes,
and meat and drink to her heart's content, and as he loved her so much he married her, and
the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing. When Two-eyes was thus carried away by the
handsome knight, her two sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest. "The wonderful
tree, however, still remains with us," thought they, "and even if we can gather no fruit from
it, still every one will stand still and look at it, and come to us and admire it. Who knows
what good things may be in store for us?" But next morning, the tree had vanished, and all
their hopes were at an end. And when Two-eyes looked out of the window of her own little room,
to her great delight it was standing in front of it, and so it had followed her.

Two-eyes lived a long time in happiness. Once two poor women came to her in her castle, and
begged for alms. She looked in their faces, and recognized her sisters, One-eye, and Three-eyes,
who had fallen into such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from door
to door. Two-eyes, however, made them welcome, and was kind to them, and took care of them,
so that they both with all their hearts repented the evil that they had done their sister in
their youth.

131 Fair Katrinelje and Pif-Paf-Poltrie

"Good-day, Father Hollenthe." "Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie." "May I be allowed to have your
daughter?" "Oh, yes, if Mother Malcho (Milch-cow), Brother High-and-Mighty, Sister Käsetraut,
and fair Katrinelje are willing, you can have her."

"Where is Mother Malcho, then?" "She is in the cow-house, milking the cow."

"Good-day, Mother Malcho." "Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie." "May I be allowed to have your daughter?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Hollenthe, Brother High-and-Mighty, Sister Käsetraut, and fair Katrinelje
are willing, you can have her." "Where is Brother High-and-Mighty, then?" "He is in the room
chopping some wood." "Good-day, Brother High-and-Mighty." "Many thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie." "May
I be allowed to have your sister?" "Oh, yes, if Father Hollenthe, Mother Malcho, Sister Käsetraut,
and fair Katrinelje are willing, you can have her." "Where is Sister Käsetraut, then?" "She
is in the garden cutting cabbages." "Good-day, sister Käsetraut." "Where is fair Katrinelje,
then?" "She is in the room counting out her farthings." "Good day, fair Katrinelje." "Many
thanks, Pif-paf-poltrie." "Wilt thou be my bride?" "Oh, yes, if Father Hollenthe, Mother Malcho,
Brother High-and-Mighty, and Sister Käsetraut are willing, I am ready."

"Fair Katrinelje, how much dowry do hast thou?" "Fourteen farthings in ready money, three and
a half groschen owing to me, half a pound of dried apples, a handful of fried bread, and a
handful of spices.

 And many other things are mine, 
 Have I not a dowry fine?

"Pif-paf-poltrie, what is thy trade? Art thou a tailor?" "Something better." "A shoemaker?"
"Something better." "A husbandman?" "Something better." "A joiner?" "Something better." "A
smith?" "Something better." "A miller?" "Something better." "Perhaps a broom-maker?" "Yes,
that's what I am, is it not a fine trade?"

132 The Fox and the Horse

