Arrived! These are the works that POPPERIE & Co. built. On a height, commanding fine panoramic
view. Approach to the house and stores is through a fresh-looking garden, everything neat and
trim. Quite a surprise to find oneself suddenly among hundreds of casks and cases. Distant
sound of carts and horses, of pulleys and cranks, of bringing in and sending out; but this
sound is only a gentle hum--a murmuring accompaniment as it were; for, considering the amount
of work that involves a lot of noise throughout the day, except, perhaps, during the feeding
hours, the note of this place is its air of quiet activity. There is, I remark, a curious flavour
in the atmosphere, that causes me to smack my lips, quite involuntarily, as if tasting wine.
Remember somebody telling me, that the mere wine-laden atmosphere of the London Docks is quite
enough to make anyone feel the worse for liquor, even though you do not touch a single drop
in the vaults. We have not yet reached the vaults, but somehow there's something peculiarly
exhilarating in the knowledge that we are in the outer court of one of King Champagne's many
palaces. Mem. Grand idea for a scene in a Drury Lane Pantomime. Visit to Palace of POPPIN THE
FIRST, king of the Champagne country. Register copyright and suggest it to Sir DRURY O'LANUS.

DAUBINET has his hat in his hand and his overcoat over his arm. With his handkerchief he is
mopping his fevered brow. "Piff!" he exclaims, "qu'il fait chaud! No? You don't find it? I
do. Caramba! O Champagnski! da Karascho! O Maman! Come on! Here is our leader, le bon VESQUIER!
Allons! Marchons! Long to reign over us!"--then as we move forward, DAUBINET again bursts into
song, as usual more or less out of tune. This time he favours us with snatches of "God save
the Queen!" and finally, as we enter a huge tunnel, and, as I judge from the steep incline,
are commencing our descent into the cave, I hear his voice behind me singing "We're leaving
thee in sorrow, ANNIE!"

Darker and darker as we descend through this tunnel. Orpheus going to find Eurydice. No Cerberus
about, thank goodness. Wonder if any rats or blackbeetles? By the way, Cerberus would have
been a nasty one for rats. Cerberus, with three to one on him ("Heads I win--tails you rats
lose"), doing a match against time in killing rats, is a fine subject for a weird classical
picture yet to be painted. What R.A. could grapple with so tremendous a composition? On returning
to "carp the upper air," must mention the subject to Sir FREDERICK the Great. Cerberus would
be a nasty one for rats to tackle. My ideas of anything alive underground are generally associated
with suchlike warmint. At last--out of the tunnel! and now, I presume, in the caves. Here someone,
gradually assuming a palpable form, emerges from somewhere out of a dark corner, and hands
to each of us a long piece of wood about the length of a harlequin's bat (note, pantomime again),
only that this is an inch or so thick and quite two inches wide at one end, where presently
a candle is fixed by an attendant sprite,--the slave of the tallow candle,--and the wand, so
to speak, tapers off towards the handle. À propos of "tapers off"--the question occurs to me,
later on, as we pass through labyrinths of dark passages, where should I be in the case of
"taper off"? Beautiful title for sensational story--"Lost in the Catacombs."

Our trusty guide, M. VESQUIER, is well ahead, and DAUBINET follows closely at my heels. Thus
we proceed, and if this order is preserved throughout, I feel that the sensational romance
above mentioned will not be written, at least not on this occasion. We are in stalactite caverns;
I expect a subterranean lake,--of still champagne of course,--and a boat; strange silver foil
and gold foil fish ought to be swimming about, and the name of the subterranean lake should
be Loch Foil, Loch Gold or Silver Foil, according to the material. No, nothing of the sort.
It is all quite dry; uncommonly dry; atmosphere dry; ground dry; and, gradually, throats dry.
Probably, champagne also dry. But remembering what I have heard of someone else's experience
of Dock-visiting, which I presume is similar to cave-visiting, I do not mention my sudden drought.
I feel that, while down here, if I took one glass of champagne, my head first, and then my
legs, might become unsteady, whereupon nothing would be more likely than for me to take the
wrong turning and lose my companions; if I did, what are the chances against my ever finding
them again? Or if my legs failed me and I disappeared between the casks, who would think of
looking for me there? Then, years afterwards, in some specially and unaccountably good vintage
year, when there would be a run upon these particular casks, my mouldering skeleton would be
found, among the sawdust, between the barrels, and some purveyor of ballads would write a song
whereof the burden would not be unlike that of the once popular "Mistletoe Bough." As I follow
my leader through the vaults all this occurs to me, as does also the appropriately melancholy
refrain of another old song or "catch," "Down among the dead men let him lie!"

We are under the central dome of this Stalactite Champagne Cathedral dedicated to the worship
of Bacchus. [Happy Thought.--The Champagne country is the true "Poppy Land." I present this
with my compliments to Mr. CLEMENT SCOTT, whose pleasant articles in the Daily Telegraph on
"Poppy Land" are, and will be, for some time to come, so deservedly poppylar on the North coast
of Norfolk. When driving round and about Cromer, our flyman pointed out "Poppy Land" to me.
Happy Thought.--In future let this be known as "Caledonia Up to Date, or the New Scott-land."]
A strange light descends from somewhere above, producing a blueish atmospheric effect. Weird,
very. We are now in the Wine Demon's Cave. More pantomimic effects: big demons and little demons
at work everywhere: champagne demons with strange faces,--I should say "fizzes,"--moving about
noiselessly: the only sound is that of the occasional irrepressible effervescence of youth,
or a pop from a recalcitrant cork in a distant cell, and, in a mysterious all-pervading way,
an accompaniment of hammering. The lights and awful shadows of the scene recall to my mind
CRUIKSHANK's grim illustrations to AINSWORTH's Tower of London. If these wild figures under
this Central Stalactited Dome, these fearsome Troglodytes, were suddenly to join hands and
dance round us, keeping a "Witches' Sabbath," I should not feel surprised. I might be considerably
alarmed; but surprised, no. It would be in keeping with the scene. Only where's the music?
Surely a Special Champagne Dance ought to be supplied by the orchestra of "The Monday Pops."

Here DAUBINET, being tired, sits. He has seen it all before. "He knows his way," explains M.
VESQUIER, "and we shall meet him again above." This sounds funereal, but, as an expression
of Christian sentiment, hopeful.

DAUBINET, mopping his forehead, mutters something, in Russian I believe, which sounds like
"Preama! Pascarry! da padadidi," which he is perhaps rendering into English when he says, "Go
straight on! Be quick! All r-r-r-right!"

