But to return to the first passage I cited--that from Measure for Measure,--MR. HALLIWELL will
be surprised to find that in the only remark I made {184} upon it as it stands he actually
agrees with me. I said that the passage "in our sense of the term" is unintelligible. I still
say so; and he who attempts to mend it, or modernise the form, says so too. The question next
arises, Does he not mean no system, when he says system? Otherwise, why does he say that Shakspeare
uses the passive for the active participle, when he explains the word not by the active participle,
but by an adjective of totally different meaning? Is it not more likely that MR. HALLIWELL
may have misunderstood Shakspeare's system, than that the latter should have used intelligible
words, and precise forms of words, so at random? And, moreover, does not the critic confound
two meanings of the word delightful; the one obsolete, full of delight, the other the common
one, giving delight, or gratifying?

Now by a violent figure which Shakspeare sometimes uses, delighted may mean delightful in the
former sense; perhaps, rather, filled with delight. The word then would be formed directly
from the noun, and must not be regarded as a participle at all, but rather an ellipsis, from
which the verb (which may be represented by give, fill, endow, &c.) is omitted. Take, as an
instance, this passage in Measure for Measure:--

  "Clau. Death is a fearful thing!

  "Isa. And shamed life a hateful."

The meaning here is not life ashamed, but life covered with shame. In this sense MR. HALLIWELL,
apparently without knowing why, has adopted the term delightful; but then the two succeeding
words of his explanation, "sweet, pleasant", he would appear to have taken at random from a
dictionary, forgetting that he was not using the word in its ordinary sense; for it is not
possible that he can suppose Shakspeare to have used the word in the sense of the active participle.
Now, though I do not think this at all the expression that Shakspeare would use, it is undoubtedly
allowable as a general characteristic; but the word actually used would appear to imply the
result of a particular action, which would have been productive of anything but delight. In
short, as we are agreed that the word delighted in the passage in question in its present sense
is unintelligible, so also are we, I think, agreed that the substitute, if any, must be used
in a passive sense.

Now, with regard to the first instance furnished by MR. HALLIWELL of the use of the passive
for the active participle, if I were sure that the delinquent were well out of hearing, and
not likely "to rise again and push us from our stools," I should be disposed to repeat the
charge of impertinence against the editor who altered "professed" to "professing". The word
professed is one of common use, and in the present instance perfectly intelligible. "To your
bosom, professed to entertain so much love and care for our father, I commit him," seems to
express the sense of the passage: a doubt is implied by the expression, but there is a directness
of insult in the term professing quite inconsistent with the character of Cordelia.

"Becomed love" is love suited or fitted to the occasion. The use of the passive participle
is every way more appropriate than that of the active, though the latter is more common now.

In the next instance, I have to observe that there is no such verb as to guile. Guile is a
noun; and "guiled shore" is guile-covered, or charactered shore. According to this rule, the
modern word talented, that is, talent-endowed, has been formed, it not having been considered
that licences are allowed in poetry that are unsuited to ordinary language.

The passage next referred to is conditional, and I regard the use of the passive participle
here, too, as correct.

I have thus reduced MR. HALLIWELL'S list to that number which usually forms the exception rather
than the rule; and if accident, misprint, error in copying, or other special circumstance be
not held sufficient to account for the single remaining instance, I have then only to say that
I prefer deformed to deforming, as an epithet applied disparagingly to Time's hand as more
in accordance with Shakspeare's practice, who was not in the habit of repeating the same idea,
which, in the latter case, would occur again in the word "defeatures" in the following line.

MR. HALLIWELL may, doubtless find other instances, perhaps more felicitous than these; at present,
all I can say is that he has failed to show that the use of the passive for the active participle
was common with Shakspeare. As to other variations between the grammatical usage of Shakspeare's
day and that of our own, I call assure him that I am not quite so ignorant of the fact as he
imagines.

SAMUEL HICKSON

August 1. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH COMEDIANS IN GERMANY.

I am glad to be enabled to reply to MR. BOLTON CORNEY'S Query (Vol. i., p. 439.) respecting
a German book of plays.

The learned illustrator of the Curiosities of Literature would find the information he desires
in the Vorrath zur Geschichte der deutschen dramatischen Dichtkunst of the formerly celebrated
J. Christoph Gottsched (Leipzig, 1767-69, 2 vols. 8vo.). But as this book, now somewhat neglected,
would perhaps be difficult to be found even in the British Museum, I will transcribe the contents
of the Schau-Bühne englischer und franzõsischer Comõdianten auff welcher werden vorgestellt
die schõnsten und neuesten Comõdien, so vor wenig Jahren in Frankreich, Teutschland und andern
Orten ... seynd agirt und präsentirt worden.--Frankfurt, {185} 1670, 3 vols. 8vo.

Vol. I.--

1. Amor der Arzt. 2. Die Comödia ohne Comödia. 3. Die köstliche Lächerlichkeit. 4. Der Hahnrey
in der Einbildung. 5. Die Hahnreyinn nach der Einbildung. 6. Die Eyfreude mit ihr Selbst. 7.
Antiochus, ein Tragicomödia. 8. Die buhlhaffte Mutter. 9. Damons Triumph-Spiel.

Vol. II.--

10. Von Sidonia und Theugene. 11. Der Verliebtell Kllnstgriffe. 12. Lustiges Pickelharings-Spiel,
darum er mit einem Stein gar artige Possen macht. 13. Von Fortunato seinem Wünschhütlein und
Seckel. 14. Der unbesonnene Liebhaber. 15. Die grossmüthige Thaliklea.

Vol. III.--

16. Vom Könige Ahasvero und Esther und dem hoffartigen Hamon. 17. Vom verlohrnen Sohn, in welchem
die Verzweifflung und Hoffnung gar artig introducirt werden. 18. Von Königs Mantalors unrechtmässiger
Liebe und derselben Straffe. 19. Der Geitzige. 20. Von der Aminta und Sylvia. 21. Macht den
kleinen Knaben Cupidinis. 22. George Damlin, oder der verwirrte Ehmann.

Some years before, another similar collection had been published. The first vol. printed in
1620, and reprinted in 1624, has this title:

    "Englische Comedien und Tragedien, d. i. Sehr schöne, herrliche
    und ausserlosene, geist- und weltliche Comedi- und Tragedi-Spiel
    (sic), sampt dem Pickelhering, welche wegen ihrer artigen
    Inventionen kurtzweiligen auch theils wahrhafftigen Geschichte
    halbet, von den Engelländern in Deutschland (I beg to notice
    these words) an Königlichen, Chur- und Furstlichen Höfen, auch
    in vornehmen Reichs- See- und Handel Städten seynd agirt und
    gehalten worden, und zuvor nie im Druck aussgangen."

The volume contains 10 plays. The 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10, are the 16, 17, 13, 10, and 12, of the
collection of 1670. The other five are the following:

4. Eine schöne lustige Comödia von Jemand und Niemand. 7. Tragödia von Julio und Hippolyto.
8. Eine sehr klägliche Tragödia von Tito Andromico und hoffertigen Kayserinn, darinnen denkwürdigen
Actiones zu befinden. 9. Ein lustig Pickelherings-Spiel von der schönen Mario und alten Hanrey.

The second volume was published in 1630, under the title Lieberkampff, oder ander Theil der
Englischen Comödien: it contains 8 plays. The 1st is the 21st of the collection of 1670, with
this addition:

    Die Personen der Lustspiels sind: 1. Venus, die stumme Person;
    2. Cupido; 3. Jucunda, Jungfraw; 4. Floretus, Liebhaber; 5.
    Balendus, Betrieger; 6. Corcillana, Kuplerin; 7. Hans Worst.

The 2d is the 20th of the same collection, "mit 9 Personen, worunter die lustige Person Schräm
heisst."

    3. Comoedia von Prob getrewer Lieb, mit 11 Personen, worunter
    auch eine allegorische, der Traum ist.

The 4th is the 18th, "mit 9 Personen, worunter die lustige Schampilasche Lean Potage heisst."

The four remaining are operas, without particular titles.

Ebert (Bibliogr. Lexicon, N. 5064.), speaking of these collections, says, "the plays they are
composed of are not translations from the English," but, "as it appears," German original works.

I am at a loss to understand how that bibliographer, generally so exact, did not recognise
at least five comedies of Molière. MR. BOLTON CORNEY will, I wish and hope, point out the originals--English,
Italian, and, I suppose, Spanish--of some others.

If you think proper to make use of the above, I entreat you, for the sake of your readers,
to correct my bad English, and to consider my communication only as a token of the gratification
I have found in your amusing and useful "NOTES AND QUERIES."

D.L.

Ancien Membre de la Société des Bibliophiles.

Béthune, July 31. 1850.

P.S.--The Query (Vol. i., p. 185.) concerning the name of the Alost, Louvain, and Antwerp printer,
Martens or Mertens, is settled in the note, p. 68., of Recherches sur la Vie et les Editions
de Thierry Martens (Martinus, Martens), par J. De Gand, 8vo. Alost, 1845. I am ready to send
a copy of the note if it is required.

[We have also received a reply to MR. CORNEY'S Query from MR. ASHER of Berlin, who refers for
particulars of this interesting collection to Tieck's Preface to his Alt-Deutsche Theater.
We propose shortly returning to the curious fact of English comedians performing in Germany
at the close of the sixteenth and commencement of the seventeenth centuries: a subject which
has several times been discussed and illustrated in the columns of our valuable contemporary
The Athenæum.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ACHILLES AND THE TORTOISE. (Vol. ii., p. 154.)

This paradox, whilst one of the oldest on record (being attributed by Aristotle to Zeus Eleates,
B.C. 500), is one of the most perplexing, upon first presentation to the mind, that can be
selected {186} from the most ample list. Its professed object was to disprove the phenomenon
of motion; but its real one, to embarrass an opponent. It has always attracted the attention
of logicians; and even to them it has often proved embarrassing enough. The difficulty does
not lie in proving that the conclusion is absurd, but in showing where the fallacy lies. From
not knowing the precise kind of information required by [Greek: Idiotaes], I am unwilling to
trespass on your valuable space by any irrelevant discussion, and confine myself to copying
a very judicious note from Dr. Whateley's Logic, 9th edit. p. 373.

    "This is one of the sophistical puzzles noticed by Aldrich, but
    he is not happy in his attempt at a solution. He proposes to
    remove the difficulty by demonstrating that in a certain given
    time, Achilles would overtake the tortoise; as if any one had
    ever doubted that. The very problem proposed, is to surmount
    the difficulty of a seeming demonstration of a thing palpably
    impossible; to show that it is palpably impossible, is no
    solution of the problem.

    "I have heard the present example adduced as a proof that the
    pretensions of logic are futile, since (it was said) the most
    perfect logical demonstration may lead from true premises to an
    absurd conclusion. The reverse is the truth; the example before
    us furnishes a confirmation of the utility of an acquaintance
    with the syllogistic form, in which form the pretended
    demonstration in question cannot be exhibited. An attempt to do
    so will evince the utter want of connection between the premises
    and the conclusion."

What the Archbishop says is true, and it disposes of the question as one of "Formal Logic:"
but yet the form of the sophism is so plausible, that it imposes with equal force on the "common
sense" of all those who repose their conclusions upon the operations of that faculty. With
them a different procedure is necessary; and I suspect that if any one of the most obstinate
advocates of the sufficiency of common sense for the "balancing of evidence" were to attempt
the explanation of a hundred fallacies that could be presented to him, he would be compelled
to admit that a more powerful and a more accurate machine would be of advantage to him in accomplishing
his task. This machine the syllogism supplies.

The discussion of Gregory St. Vincent will be found at pages 101-3. of his Opus Geometricum,
Antw., 1647 fol. The principle is the same as that which Aldrich afterwards gave, as above
referred to by Dr. Whateley. I can only speak from memory of the discussion of Leibnitz, not
having his works at hand; but I am clear in this, that his principle again is the same. [Greek:
Idiotaes] is in error, however, in calling St. Vincent's "a geometrical treatment" of it. He
indeed uses lines to represent the spaces passed over; and their discussion occurs in a chapter
on what is universally (but very absurdly) called "geometrical proportion." It is yet no more
geometrical than our school-day problem of the basket and the hundred eggs in Francis Walkinghame.
Mere names do not bestow character, however much philosophers as well as legislators may think
so. All attempts of the kind have been, and must be, purely numerical.

T.S.D.

Shooter's Hill, August 3.

Achilles and the Tortoise.--Your correspondent will find references in the article "Zeno (of
Elea)" in the Penny Cyclopædia. For Gregory St. Vincent's treatment of the problem, see his
Quadratara Circuli, Antwerp, 1647, folio, p. 101., or let it alone. I suspect that the second
is the better reference. Zeno's paradox is best stated, without either Achilles or tortoise,
as follows:--No one can go a mile; for he must go over the first half, then over half the remaining
half, then over half the remaining quarter; and so on for ever. Many books of logic, and many
of algebra, give the answer to those who cannot find it.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES

"Barum" and "Sarum" (Vol. ii., p. 21.)--The formation of the first of these words has not yet
been accounted for. I must premise my attempt to supply an explanation by admitting that I
was not aware it was in common use as a contraction for Barnstaple. I think it will be found
that the contracted form of that name is more usually "Berdest," "Barnst". In trying further
to contract the word, the two last letters would be omitted, and it would then be "Barñ", with
the circumflex showing the omission of several letters. Having reduced it to this state, an
illiterate clerk would easily misread the circumflex for the plain stroke "-," expressing merely
the omission of the letter "m", and, perhaps ignorant of the name intended, think it as well
to write at full length "Barum."

J. Br.

Countess of Desmond (Vol. ii., p. 153.)--It is stated in Turner's Sacred History, vol. iii.
p. 283., that the Countess of Desmond died in 1612, aged 145. This is, I presume, the correct
date of her decease, and not 1626 as mentioned by your querist K.; for in Lord Bacon's History
of Life and Death, originally published in 1623, her death is thus alluded to:--

    "The Irish, especially the Wild Irish, even at this day, live
    very long. Certainly they report that within these few years the
    Countess of Desmond lived to a hundred and forty years of age,
    and bred teeth three times."

The manner of her death is recorded by Mr. Crofton Croker, in his agreeable volume of Researches
in the South of Ireland, 4to. London, 1824. {187} Speaking of Drumana, on the Blackwater, a
little above Youghall, as the "reputed birth-place of the long-lived Countess of Desmond,"
he says,--

    "In this part of the country, her death is attributed to a fall
    whilst in the act of picking an apple from a tree in an orchard
    at Drumana."

In the Olla Podrida, a volume of miscellanies, printed for private distribution, by Mr. Sainthill
of Cork, there is a portrait of the "old countess," from an etching made by Mr. Crofton Croker
(if I mistake not) in his early days.

J.M.B.

Michael Servetus, alias Reves.--The manuscript, the character and fate of which S.H. (Vol.
ii., p. 153.) is anxious to investigate, contained books iii.-vii., inclusive, of the work
of Servetus De Trinitate; and as these fragments differed somewhat from the printed text, they
were probably the first, or an early, draft (not necessarily in the author's handwriting) of
part of the Christianismi Restitutio. The purchaser of this MS., at the sale of Du Fay's library
in Paris in the year 1725, was the Count de Hoym, ambassador to France from Poland. I beg to
refer your correspondent to pp. 214-18. of the Historia Michaelis Serveti, by Henr. ab Allwoerden,
published with Mosheim's approbation, Helmstad 1728.

Both a "Note" and a "Query" might be founded on a memorable passage in the fifth book De Trinitate,
in which Servetus, long before Harvey, explains the circulation of the blood. As that gentleman
quotes from, I believe, the second edition of the Survey, I may be allowed to doubt, until
it is clearly shown, that "Islip's name has been introduced by the error of some subsequent
writer." But supposing this to be so, it would in no way affect the only question which is
material, Who was Caxton's patron? nor touch the accuracy of the Life of Caxton, which MR.
NICHOLS seems desirous of impeaching. I am anxious to point this out, because I feel it right
to vindicate to the utmost, where they deserve it, useful works, which, like the little volume
I am writing of, are published at a price that ensures for them a circulation of almost unlimited
extent.

ARUN.

Somagia (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--This is the plural of "somagium," "summagium," and means "horse-loads."
It is a word frequently found in documents relating to agrarian matters, and may signify the
load packed upon the horse's back (whence the name "sumpter-horse"), or in a cart drawn by
a horse. MR. SANSOM will find a full explanation of the derivatives of its root, "sagma," at
p. 50., vol. vii., of Ducange.

J.BT.

Various Modes of Interment among the Ancients (Vol ii., pp. 8, 9. 22. 41. 78.).--In modes of
interment some nations have been distinguished by an idiosyncrasy almost incredible from their
inhumanity.

    "Barcæi, populi inter Colchos et Iberos morbo absumptos igni
    comburebant, sed qui in bello fortiter occubuissent, honoris
    gratia vulturibus devorandos objiciebant."--.AElian. Hist.
    Anim. lib. x. "In Hyrcania (refert Cicero in Tusc. Quæst.
    lib. i. 45.) ali canes solitos fuisse, a quibus delaniarentur
    mortui, eamque optimam Hyrcanos censuisse
    sepulturam."--Kirchmannus de Funer. Romanorum.

The appendix to this work may be consulted for this, and yet greater violations of the law
of nature and nations.

    "Apud saniores barbaros ab animalibus discerpi cadavera foedum
    semper ac miserabile creditum fuit. Foetus abortivi feris
    alitibutsque exponebantur in montibus aut locis aliis
    inaccessis, quin et ipsi infantes, &c. Fuit hæc Asinina
    sepultura poena Tyrannorum ac perduellium. (Spondan. de
    Coemet. S. pp. 367. 387. et seqq.) Quam et victorum insolentia
    odiumque vulgi implacabile in hostes non raro
    exercuit."--Ursinus Arbor. Biblicum.

Hyde accounts for the Persians who embraced the religion of the Magi not having adopted the
two contrivances of corporal dissolution prevalent among civilised nations--cremation or burning,
and simple inhumation--by the superstitious reverence with which they regarded the four elements.
Sir T. Browne remarks that similar superstitions may have had the same effect among other nations.

Of the post-mortem punishments described by Ducange, the former was the customary sepulture
of the Trogloditæ; the latter corresponds with the rite of some of the Scythians recorded by
Statius:

  "At gente in Scythica suffixa cadavera truncis,
  Lenta dies sepelit putri liquentia tabo."

I shall be obliged if you or a correspondent disposed "not only to teach but to communicate,"
will kindly throw light on a passage, relating to the Troloditæ, in Strabo, book xvi., where
he relates, "Capræ cornu mortuis saxorum cumulo coopertis fuisse superimpositum."

T.J.

Guy's Porridge-pot (Vol. ii., p. 55.).--Your correspondent is quite correct, when he says "neither
the armour nor pot belonged to the noble Guy." He would have been a guy if he had worn the
armour, seeing that it was made for a horse, and not for a man.

What the stout old lady who showed us the "relics of old Guy" in 1847 called "Guy's breastplate,"
and sometimes his helmet! is the "croupe" of a suit of horse armour, and "another breastplate"
a "poitrel." His porridge-pot is a garrison {188} crock of the sixteenth century, used to prepare
"sunkits" for the retainers; and the fork a military fork temp. Hen. VIII.

The so called "Roman swords" are "anelaces," and a couteau de chasse of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries.

The "British weapon" is a hammer at arms temp. Hen. VIII., and "the halbert" a black bill temp.
Hen. VII. The only weapons correctly described are the Spanish rapiers.

The shield with the "sight" is very curious; it weighs thirty pounds, and is of the temp. of
Henry VIII.

It is impossible to describe the horror of the old lady at our doubting her version; she seemed
to wonder the earth did not open and swallow us for our heresy.

NASO.

  "Welcome the coming, speed the parting Guest"
  (Vol. ii., p. 134.).--

  "Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest,"

is from Pope (Imitations of Horace, book ii. sat. ii.).

Pope's distich, whence the line is taken, runs,--

  "For I, who hold sage Homer's rule the best,
  Welcome the coming, speed the going guest."

Query. Where is "sage Homer's rule" to be found?

RUSTICUS.

These lines are from Pope's Homer, the Odyssey, Book xv., lines 83 and 84.

E.H.]

"A Chrysostom to smoothe his Band in" (Vol. ii., p. 126.).--This Query by Rev. ALFRED GATTY
is answered by referring him to the Happy Life of a Country Parson, by Swift, beginning with--

  "Parson, these things in thy possessing,
  Are worthy of a bishop's blessing."

And enumerating amongst them

  "A large Concordance bound long since,
  Sermons to Charles the First when prince,
  A chronicle of ancient standing,
  A chrysostom to smoothe thy band in;
  The polyglott--three parts--my text,
  Howbeit--likewise--to my next."

T.H.Q.

[C.I.R. (to whom we are indebted for a similar reference) adds the concluding line--

  "And shake his head at Doctor Swift."

which would show that the verses were written not earlier than 1701, as Swift, the author,
took his D.D. degree in that year.]

William of Wykeham (Vol. ii., p. 89.).--

    "Historica descriptio compleetens vitam ac res gestas beatissimi
    viri Guilmi Wicanii quondam Vintoniensis episcopi et Angliæ
    Cancellarii et fundatoris duorum collegiorum Oxoniæ et
    Vintoniæ."

is the title of a biography of William of Wykeham attributed to Thomas Martin, published in
4to. Oxford, 1597.

There is also a little work which may come under the head of biographies, viz.:

    "Uvedale (Robert) Examination of Lowth's objections to the
    account given by Leland of the parentage of William of Wykeham,"
    8vo. 1801.

Vide Oettinger's Bibliographie Biographique.

S.W.

Dutch Language (Vol. ii., p. 77.).--H.B.C. recommends, among other works, Hendrik Conscience's
novels. These are in Flemish, not Dutch. The difference may not be great between the two; but
one would hardly recommend to a learner of English, Burns's Poems as a reading-book. In 1829
Dr. Bowring wrote an article, being a sketch of Dutch literature, in the Foreign Quarterly
Review; which article was reprinted in Amsterdam in the form of an 18mo. volume, and which
I believe is still to be got, and is a very useful guide to Dutch literature.

S.W.

"A frog he would" &c. (Vol. ii., p. 45. and elsewhere).--I remember, when a boy, to have heard
an old aunt repeatedly sing this song; but the chorus was very strange.

  "A frog he would a-wooing ride,
    With a rigdum bullydimy kymy;
  With sword and buckler by his side,
    With a rigdum bullydimy kymy.
  Kymyary kelta cary kymyary kymy,
    Strimstram paradiddle larrabona ringting,
  Rigdum bullydimy kymy."

A.

City Sanitary Laws (Vol. ii., p. 99.).--The act of Parliament prohibiting the slaughter of
cattle within the city, referred to in the passage from Arnold's Chronicle, extracted by your
correspondent T.S.D. is the 4 Hen. VII. c. 3., which enacts that--

    "No butcher shall kill any flesh within his scalding-house, or
    within the walls of London, in pain to forfeit for every ox so
    killed 12d. and for every other beast 8d., to be divided between
    the king and the prosecutor."--Bohun's Privilegia Londini
    1723, p. 480.

Brydall, in his Camera Regis (Lond. 1666, p. 114.), quotes the statute of 11 Hen. VII. c. 21,
as the authority for the "singularity" attaching to the city, that "butchers shall kill no
beasts in London." I believe, however, Bohun's reference will be found to be the correct one.
The statute in question has, I think, never been repealed; but in the absence of abbatoirs,
or other proper provision for the slaughtering of cattle without the walls of the city, it
seems doubtful whether the {189} pains and penalties to which the "contrary doers" were liable,
were at any time strictly enforced.

JAMES T. HAMMACK.

Sanitary Laws of other Days (Vol. ii., p. 99.).--The statute referred to by T.S.D. in his article,
by which "it is ordeigned y't no such slaughter of best shuld be used or had within this cite,"
was no doubt 4 & 5 Henry VII. c. 3., intituled "An Act that no Butcher slea any Manner of Beast
within the walls of London." The penalty is only twelvepence for an ox or a cow, and eightpence
for any smaller animal. The act itself seems unrepealed, but the penalties are too small at
the present day to abate the nuisance.

C.R. SOC.

Michael Scott, the Wizard (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--I have now lying before me a small duodecimo,
Lugdini, 1584, entitled--

    "Alberti Magni de Secretis Mulierum libellus, scholiis auctus et
    a mendis repurgatus,"

to which is appended a work of the wizard's "ob materiæ similitudinem,"

    "Michaelis Scoti philosophi De Secretis Naturæ Opusculum."

E.S.T.

Clerical Costume (Vol. ii., p. 22.).--Possibly the answer to this Query may be found in the
passage from Bacon's History of Life and Death, in the third part of the Instauratio Magna,
which I copy below from Craik's Bacon and his Writings, vol. iii. p. 45.:--

    "Some report that they have found great benefit in the
    conservation of their health by wearing scarlet waistcoats next
    their skin and under their shirts, as well down to their nether
    parts as on the upper."

From the quantity of serge bought, as well as from the nature of the material, I think it likely
it might be required for the purpose here noticed by Bacon, and not for an outer waistcoat.

ARUN.

The Curfew (Vol. ii., p. 103.).--As NABOC can, I imagine, only get a perfect list of the places
where the curfew is still rung by the contributions of scattered correspondents, I will furnish
my mite by informing him that a very short time ago it was rung at Sturminster Newton in Dorsetshire.

J. BT.

Welsh Language; Armenian Language (Vol. ii., p. 136.).--JARLTZBERG will find no Welsh dictionary
with the part reversed. I possess a dictionary in Welsh and English, in two volumes, by Pugh,
published in 1832, which is one of the best. The one in two volumes by Walters is in English
and Welsh, and is also one of the best. The four volumes would make a good dictionary. The
best grammar is, I think, Pugh's. See the Welsh bookseller in Holywell Street: I believe his
name is Williams.

Father Chamick compiled the History of Armenia from the historical works of several authors,
which was published at Venice in 1786; and in 1811 an abridgment thereof, which was translated
by Mr. Acdall, of Calcutta, in 1827. See Messrs. Allen and Co.'s Catalogue of Oriental Works,
at whose house these, and translations of other works (particularly the History of Vartan and
the Memoirs of Artemi), may be procured. I think JARLTZBERG will find a dictionary in Armenian
and French. I saw a notice of one a short time since. (See Bernard Quaritch.) In 1841, Peterman
published at Berlin, Porta Ling. Orient., sive Elementa Ling. Syr., Chald., Arab., &c. &c.,
which I think contains an Armenian grammar. See Williams and Norgate; also a list of Klaproth's
works.

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Armenian Language (Vol. ii., p. 136.).--In reply to JARLTZBERG, I can answer that Lord Byron
did not compose the English part of Aucher's Armenian and English Grammar. A very learned friend
of mine was at St. Lazero, in Venice, and knew both Aucher and Lord Byron. Lord Byron was taking
lessons in Armenian, and a few of his exercises were introduced into Aucher's Grammar, which
was written for Armenians to learn English, with which language Aucher was quite familiar,
having resided four years in London. But a new Armenian and English Grammar has recently been
published. There is one, very rare, in Armenian and Latin, and another in Armenian, modern
Greek, and Italian. I have just seen John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress in vulgar Armenian, with
plates, published at Smyrna; and the Prayers of St. Nierses, in twenty-four languages, Venice,
1837, of which Armenian is one. Several works in Armenian have been published at Calcutta.

HENRY WILKINSON.

Brompton.

North Sides of Churchyards unconsecrated (Vol. ii., p. 55.).--The strong preference given to
the south side of the churchyard is traceable to two principal causes; first and chiefly, because
the churchyard cross was always placed here; secondly, because this is the sunny side of the
churchyard. The cross, the emblem of all the Christian's hopes, the bright sun shining on the
holy ground, figurative of the sun of righteousness, could not fail to bring to mind the comforting
assurance that they who slept around would one day rise again. And as the greater part of the
congregation entered the church by the south and principal door, another cause of the preference
was the hope that the sight of the resting places of those of their friends and neighbours
who had died in the communion of the church, might remind the survivors each time they repaired
to the house of prayer to remember them in their supplications. {190} There is not, however,
I believe, the slightest reason for considering that the north side of the churchyard was left
unconsecrated, nor do I think it possible that such could ever be the case, inasmuch as all
consecrated ground was required to be fenced off from that which was unhallowed. But the north
side has always been considered inferior to the south. For example;--excommunicated persons
were at one time buried outside the precincts of the churchyard, which, of course, would not
have been necessary if any part had been left unconsecrated, nor are instances of this practice
wanting since the Reformation.[1] And when discipline began to be relaxed, and murderers were
interred even within the church itself, it was still on the north side.[2] It is very usual
in small country parishes to find the north side of the churchyard without a single grave,
nor is it generally resorted to until the south side is fully occupied. It would be difficult
to mention another instance of a prejudice so universal, existing so long after the causes
of it have mainly passed away.

I cannot conclude without expressing the extreme interest which, though he seems not to be
aware of it, attaches to the statement of your correspondent, to the effect that he had on
two occasions, namely, on the Revel Sunday, and on another festival, observed the game of football
in a churchyard in the West of England. It is, indeed, interesting to find that relics of a
custom which, however repugnant to our notions, was sanctioned by the highest authority in
the best days of our church, still linger in some of our rural districts; thus amply bearing
out the mention made by Bishop Peirs more than two centuries ago, of the attachment of the
people of the west to, and "how very much they desired the continuance of," these ancient celebrations.
For the letter of the prelate, which was addressed to Archbishop Laud, and for many valuable
details with respect to dedication festivals, and the observance of Sundays in former times,
I would refer those who take an interest in the matter to the Hierurgia Anglicanæ.

ARUN.

[Footnote 1: See Parish Register of Hart, Durham, December 17th, 1596; of St. Nicholas, Newcastle,
December 31st 1664.]

[Footnote 2: Parish Register of St. Nicholas, Newcastle August 1st, 1616, and August 13th, 1620.]

"Sir Hilary charged at Agincourt."--Your correspondent B.H.C, who, at Vol. ii, p. 158., inquires
after the author and answer to this charade, might leave easily ascertained that the author
was the late Mackworth Praed, and that the answer is "Good-night." I believe your correspondent
has been guilty of some verbal inaccuracies, which makes the answer appear not so pertinent
to his version as it really is; but I have not the original at hand. Some few years ago, the
charade appeared in a Cambridge paper, with a story about Sir Walter Scott having sent it anonymously
to Queen Adelaide. This was contradicted, and the real author named in a subsequent number
of the newspaper, and a metrical solution given, amongst others, of the charade, with which,
though I believe I could recollect it, I will not trouble the Editor of "NOTES AND QUERIES."
I think the charade first appeared in a cheap periodical, which was set on foot by the parties
concerned in Knight's Quarterly.

J.H.L.

"Sir Hilary charged at Agincourt" (Vol. ii., p. 158).--This enigma was written by the late
Winthrop Mackworth Praed, and appeared in Knight's Quarterly Magazine, vol. ii. p. 469.: whether
solved or soluble, I cannot say.

May I here express my concurrence in an opinion expressed in a very recent number of the Examiner,
that a collected edition of Mr. Praed's poems is wanted?

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, August 5. 1850.

Unicorn (Vol. ii., p. 136.).--King James I. abandoned the red dragon of Henry VII. as one of
the supporters of the royal arms of England, and substituted the unicorn, one of the supporters
of the royal arms of Scotland.

S.S.S.

