The engineer agreed heartily that it might be well to take hold of something. But what? That
was the rub--what? He gently intimated that if Horace P. Blanton could not find a way to avert
the awful calamity that threatened the public, the public was in a bad way. Clearly it was
up to Horace P. to save Kingston.

The dinner over the men separated quickly: the man in the white vest to carry the burden of
Kingston's future on his fat shoulders, and the engineer to inspect the work at Dry River Heading.

The evening of the third day after Abe Lee's return to Kingston the surveyor and his employer
were in Mr. Worth's office. The work of excavation for the foundation of the power plant would
begin in the morning, and Mr. Worth had planned to leave town the following morning for a week's
business trip to the city.

The two men were interrupted in their conversation by a loud familiar voice on the store side
of the board partition.

"Busy, be they? Well, fwhat the divil should they be but busy? Do ye suppose I thought they
was a-playin' dominoes?"

Abe grinned at his employer. They both listened.

Deck Jordan's voice said: "But you better not go in now, boys. They will be through in a little
while."

"Go in? Who the hell's talkin' av goin' in? Do ye think, ye danged counter-hopper, that we've
no manners at all? For a sup o' wather I'd go over to ye wid me two hands!"

And another softer voice drawled: "Run along Deck. Me an' my pardner promises not to turn violent
or break into the sanctuary. We'll just camp here peaceful 'til the meetin's over."

Abe chuckled. "I knew they would be along as soon as they heard the news." He lifted his voice.
"Come in, boys."

Instantly Barbara's "uncles" appeared. "We axes yer pardon, Sorr, for not comin' before to
pay our respects, but we only heard yestherday that ye was in the counthry. Ye see, afther
we finished at the river we was transferred over on Number Three at the tail end av nowhere
an' knew nothin' at all 'til someone brung into camp the paper that towld about yer doin's.
An' how is our little girl?"

"Very well," said Mr. Worth. "She told me to be sure and remember her to you."

"I saw her the other day," said Abe. "She sent you both her love."

"Well, now, fwhat do ye think av that? Tex, ye danged owld sand rat, ut's proud av yersilf
ye should be to be the uncle av sich a darlin'. An' tell us now, Sorr, fwhat's this I hear
about yer buildin' a power plant for electric lights, or street cars, or somethin'? We thought
that the lad here left the danged counthry for good, an' sarves thim danged yellow-legs that
boss the Company right for not knowin' a man whin they see wan."

"We begin work in the morning. Abe is in charge."

"Hurroo!" exclaimed the delighted Irishman. "An' ut's men ye'll be wantin' av course; wan to
handle the greasers, which is cake to me, an' wan to boss the mule skinners, which is pie for
Tex. I'm thinkin' the Company will be short handed at Number Three in the mornin'."

"I have been holding these places open for you," Abe laughed. "If I could get hold of Pablo,
now, I would be all right. Barbara said to be sure and get him too. He's still at Dry River
Heading, I hear."

As the two were leaving Texas Joe said to Abe: "Are you plumb certain Pablo is at the Heading?"

"That's what one of the crew told me to-day."

"Well, then I reckon he'll be along pronto."

The next morning when Abe went to the site of the work the first man he saw was Barbara's friend,
Pablo. The Mexican greeted the surveyor with a show of white teeth.

"Did you come to work?" asked Abe.

"Si, Senor. Senor Texas he come las' night with two horses. He say Senor Abe want you quick,
Pablo. La Senorita say you come. So I am come pronto, like he say."

"Texas Joe went for you last night?" repeated Abe.

"Si, Senor. If you want me come--if La Senorita want me come--Senor Tex he go tell me come.
I come. It is no much ride for vaqueros like Senor Tex and me."

"But you have your job with the Company?"

The Mexican shrugged his shoulders and his teeth showed. "Senor Worth and Senores Lee and Tex
and Pat good company for Pablo. Beside, is there not La Senorita? She was good to me when I
was sick with no one to help. Do not we all--Senores Lee and Tex and Pat, and Senor Worth and
me--do not we all work for La Senorita in La Palma de la Mano de Dios? Is it not so? Beside
I think sometime La Senorita come--then I would be near. In the Company there is no Senorita."

CHAPTER XIV.

MUCH CONFUSION AND HAPPY EXCITEMENT.

As the trying months of the semi-tropical summer approached, the great Desert, so awful in
its fierce desolation, so pregnant with the life it was still so reluctant to yield, gathered
all its dreadful forces to withstand the inflowing streams of human energy. In the fierce winds
that rushed through the mountain passes and swept across the hot plains like a torrid furnace
blast; in the blinding, stinging, choking, smothering dust that moved in golden clouds from
rim to rim of the Basin; in the blazing, scorching strength of the sun; in the hard, hot sky,
without shred or raveling of cloud; in the creeping, silent, poison life of insect and reptile;
in the maddening dryness of the thirsty vegetation; in the weird, beautiful falseness of the
ever-changing mirage, the spirit of the Desert issued its silent challenge.

It was not the majestic challenge of the mountains with their unsealed heights of peak and
dome and impassable barriers of rugged crag and sheer cliff. It was not the glad challenge
of the untamed wilderness with its myriad formed life of tree and plant and glen and stream.
It was not the noble challenge of the wide-sweeping, pathless plains; nor the wild challenge
of the restless, storm- driven sea. It was the silent, sinister, menacing threat of a desolation
that had conquered by cruel waiting and that lay in wait still to conquer.

With grim determination, nervous energy, enduring strength and a dogged tenacity of purpose,
the invading flood of humanity, irresistibly driven by that master passion, Good Business,
matched its strength against that of the Desert in the season of its greatest power.

Steadily mile by mile, acre by acre, and at times almost foot by foot, the pioneers wrested
their future farms and homes from the dreadful forces that had held them for ages. Steadily,
with the inflowing stream of life from the world beyond the Basin's rim, the area of improved
lands about Kingston extended and the work in the Company's town went on. By midsummer many
acres of alfalfa, with Egyptian corn and other grains, showed broad fields of living green
cut into the dull, dun plain of the Desert and laced with silver threads of water shining in
the sun.

Save for occasional brief business trips to the city, Jefferson Worth did not leave Kingston.
In the most trying of those grilling days of heat and dust, when a man's skin felt like cracking
parchment and his eyes burned in their sockets and it seemed as though every particle of moisture
in his body was sucked up by the dry, scorching air, Barbara's father gave no sign of discomfort.
He accepted the most nerve-racking situation with the even-tempered calmness of one who had
foreseen it and to whom it was but a trivial incident, inevitable to his far-reaching plans.
When others--their tempers tried to the breaking point--cursed with dry, high-pitched, querulous
curses the heat, the land, the sun, the dust, the Company and their fellow-sufferers, Jefferson
Worth's cool, even tones and unruffled spirit helped them to a needed self-control and gave
them a new and stronger grip on things. And many a baffled, discouraged and well-nigh beaten
settler, ready to give up, found in the man whose gray, mask-like face seemed so incapable
of expression, fresh inspiration and new courage; while the store continued its policy of helping
the worthy, hard-pressed ranchers with necessary material assistance.

And so it was that while James Greenfield and his fellow-capitalists of The King's Basin Land
and Irrigation Company were taking their much needed vacations and seeking relaxation and rest
from business cares at their seaside and mountain retreats, the desert pioneers were coming
more and more to Jefferson Worth for advice and counsel, for strength and courage and help
to go on with the work. By fall the financier's position in the life of the new country seemed
to be securely won. Perhaps only Jefferson Worth himself, alone behind his gray mask, knew
the real value of his apparent victory.

The Company's thoughtful Manager went out--as the pioneers had come to say of those who left
the Basin--for over a month, and for the rest of the summer spent only a part of his time in
Kingston. But the Company's chief engineer refused to leave even for a week. To a pressing
invitation from Greenfield to join him on his vacation, Holmes answered that he could not get
away. All through the June rise of the river, while the settlers, ignorant of the danger that
threatened them through the Good Business policy of the Company, were risking everything that
Capital might gain its greater profits, the engineer lived in his camp at the intake. Day and
night, as he watched the swelling yellow torrent that threw its weight against his work, he
remembered the words of the desert-bred surveyor: "When the Gila and the Little Colorado go
on the warpath and come down on top of a high Colorado flood, you'll catch hell." It had come
in the past, Abe had declared, and it would come again.

But the flood waters of the Gila and the Little Colorado did not come down on top of the larger
river that year and the promoter's estimate work stood. When the danger was past and the engineer
was free again to make Kingston his headquarters, his acquaintance with Jefferson Worth grew
into something like friendship. It became, indeed, an established custom for Mr. Worth, Abe
Lee and the chief engineer of the Company to sit at the same table in the shack restaurant
and, during their meals of canned stuff, to talk over the work that held them from the comforts
and pleasures of civilization.

But little work toward extending the Company system could be undertaken during the hot summer
months. It was difficult for Holmes to hold even enough men to maintain that which was already
in operation. But Jefferson Worth did not fare so badly. Abe Lee was steadfast, of course,
while Texas, Pat and Pablo would, as the Irishman said, "have fried thimsilves on the coals
av hell" before they would quit their job. Were there not letters every week from Barbara with
messages to the surveyor and his three helpers? Pablo said truly that "there was no Senorita
in the Company." So through Abe's leadership, Texas Joe's diplomacy, Pat's wisdom and Pablo's
influence with his countrymen, the Worth enterprises did not suffer for lack of laborers but
went steadily ahead.

In Kingston the different buildings for the power plant and lighting system were nearly completed
and several cottages were under construction on lots owned by Jefferson Worth, while men and
teams were busy excavating and hauling materials for a large ice plant. In Frontera, a little
town that "just happened" to grow from a supply camp in the southern end of the Basin, a hotel
and a bank building were being erected, while between the two communities poles for a telephone
system were being placed.

Thus far very few women had come into the desert. When the torrid summer was past, the first
crops on the new ranches harvested and more comfortable homes prepared, they would come with
the children to join the men-folks. Until then the new country would continue a man's country--the
poorest possible kind of a country, the men themselves declared.

Therefore when, late in September, The King's Basin Messenger, with an extraordinary blare
of trumpets, announced the birth of a child and that the first-born of the new country was
a boy, the news was received with the greatest excitement. In Kingston, in Frontera, at grading
camps and ranches, as the word was passed, there were wild and joyous celebrations. Such a
crowd of male visitors closed in on the humble tent home to beg for a look at the little pink
stranger that the matter-of-fact pioneer parents were heard to express the wish that they themselves
had never been born. Had the baby been forced to carry through life all the names that were
suggested he would undoubtedly have echoed the parents' wish at an early age.

Then came the terrible word to Kingston, brought by Texas Joe, that the baby was ill. Tex,
returning to town from a trip to Frontera, had turned a mile aside to bring the latest news
of the baby. It was early evening and the light yet lingered in the sky back of No Man's Mountains,
when the citizens, relaxing after the heat of the day and the evening meal, looked up to see
him coming, riding like a mad man, his horse white with foam.

Jefferson Worth, with Abe and Holmes coming from the restaurant, had paused a moment in front
of the store before separating when Texas leaped from his staggering mount. One thought flashed
into the mind of each: "The intake! The river!" Holmes went white under his tan; Abe's jaws
came together with a click; Jefferson Worth's slim fingers caressed his chin.

As the word passed quickly through the town, the crowd that followed Mr. Worth and Texas Joe
into the store grew until it over-flowed the building and filled the street. Over all there
was a solemn hush, save for low-spoken words of inquiry, or explanation, and of advice. What
to do was the question. What could they do? There was no doctor nearer than Rubio City and
men who pioneer in a desert land are not men experienced with sickness.

On a high shelf in one back corner of the store there was a small dust-covered stock of assorted
patent medicines. Desperately they pulled the bottles down and studied the labels and directions,
but only to their further confusion and doubt. At last, his pockets laden with everything that
seemed to promise a possible relief, Texas Joe set out on a fresh horse, the first one handy,
to be followed later by a spring wagon drawn by four fast broncos and carrying four women.
The entire female population of Kingston had been mustered by Abe Lee, whom the ladies declared
then and there to be the only man of sense in all The King's Basin.

For the first evening since his arrival Jefferson Worth left his office in the store to mingle
with the restless crowds on the street that, in ever-changing knots and groups, discussed in
fearful voice this public calamity. No one dreamed of retiring. No one had thoughts for sleep,
nor indeed for anything save the little sufferer in the tent house ten miles out on the Desert.
They smoked and talked and swore softly in hushed tones and waited the return of Texas Joe.

It was after midnight when he came again. Before he could dismount, the crowd of silent men
hemmed him in. From the saddle the old plainsman looked down into their eager solemn faces
and that slow smile broke over his sun-blackened features.

"Boys" he drawled, "I'm sure proud to bring you-all the unanimous verdict of the female relief
expedition sent out by our illustrious fellow-citizen, Abe Lee. The kid's better and is headed
straight for good health and six or eight square meals a day."

When the joyous chorus of yells that would have startled a coyote two miles away subsided,
Tex dismounted and approached Jefferson Worth. "Mr. Worth, them women commanded me also to
return to you with their compliments and gratitude the various and sundry bottles with which
same my clothes is full. One of them angels of mercy, it seems, went to the scene of action
loaded with a flask of castor oil."

Just before retiring that night Mr. Worth said to his superintendent: "Abe, I'm going out in
the morning. You had better push the work on that largest cottage as fast as possible. I'll
ship in an outfit of furniture and things as soon as I get to the city. Let me know when the
house is finished and the goods arrive. You can stack the furniture up on the porches or anywhere
until I get back. The hot weather is about over and the hotel will open up next week."

"All right, sir," the surveyor answered quietly and made no comment on this unexpected move
of his employer, though his nerves tingled at the evident purpose of his instructions. Abe
Lee could not know how the events of the evening had awakened in Jefferson Worth memories of
another baby in the desert-memories that stirred the child-hungry heart of the lonely man and
drove him to his daughter without an hour's delay.

Did Abe Lee push the work on the house? Did he? Every man in Jefferson Worth's employ, who
could find a place to lay his hand on the building, was put on the job. By the time the house
was finished the furniture had arrived.

It was quitting time and Pablo, who with four Mexican laborers had been at work grading the
yard and removing the rubbish that had accumulated incident to building, dismissed his helpers.
The surveyor was gloomily contemplating the pile of boxes, bales and crates on the front porch.
Evidently there was something not to the surveyor's liking.

"Senor Lee."

The surveyor turned sharply to face the Mexican, whose dark features were glowing with pleasure.
"Well?"

"Pardon, but Senor Lee seems not pleased. Is not the work well done?"

"The work is all right, Pablo. You have done well. It is not that. I was wishing I had nerve
enough to tackle another job."

The Mexican smiled. "Oh, Senor, you make fun. What can not El Senor do? He can do everything."

"There is a job here all right I don't sabe, Pablo." Abe turned again to the pile of household
goods.

"Si Senor, me sabe. It is that La Senorita come pronto an' Senor Lee would have the house what
you call ready."

Abe started at the tone of quiet conviction. "How the devil do you know that La Senorita is
coming?" he asked sharply.

The answer came with a flash of white teeth: "For what else does El Senor hurry so the house?
For what else does he all time cry-- 'Pronto! pronto!' and go not much to the other work but
stay all time here? And is there not all this--" He waved his hand gracefully to indicate the
household goods. "For who should it be that Senor Lee is hurry so? When Texas Joe come say--'Senor
Worth is here,' I think quick some time La Senorita come. I work for Senor Worth, as La Senorita
send word, that I may be near. All time I work I say-- 'It is for La Senorita.' Pretty quick
now she come and with Senor Lee will be happy to live in the house he make."

A deeper red than the desert color stained the surveyor's thin cheeks as he said: "You're a
good hombre, Pablo, but you're away off on part of what you say. I reckon you're right enough
that Miss Worth is coming, but she will live here with her father just as they did in Rubio
City. And listen, Pablo. You must never say to anyone what you have said to me. You sabe, Pablo?
I am with La Senorita as you are, and Tex and Pat; sabe?"

"Si, Senor; forgive me; I am sorry. But sometime it will be if El Senor is patient."

The surveyor, annoyed at the Mexican's talk, but unwilling, because of the spirit that prompted
the words, to speak sharply, sought to dismiss the matter by changing the subject. He explained
to Pablo how he was wishing that he could unpack the furniture and have the house all ready
when Mr. Worth and Barbara arrived.

"Why not?" asked the Mexican.

Abe shook his head. "It's out of my line. I don't sabe the job, Pablo."

"Maybe so Tex and Pat, they would sabe."

"By George, I believe Pat would. Texas wouldn't be any better than I, but Pat ought to know
something about such things. You go tell them I want them at the office to-night. Pat was at
the power house to-day and Texas will be coming in from the line early."

"Si, Senor. And Senor Lee! La Senorita will want a horse."

"Hell, I forgot that!"

Pablo smiled. "I know where is good one--a beautiful horse, Senor. Long time I watch him and
think some day he be for La Senorita when she come. The man will sell for enough. Shall I go
to-morrow?"

"Yes, get him. Tell the man it is for me and that I will pay. No"-- he corrected himself--"tell
him it is for Senor Worth and that he will pay. Sabe? You must not speak of me."

"Si, Senor; it shall be as you say. To-morrow night I return."

That evening at the office in the rear of the store Abe laid the situation before Pat and Texas
Joe. Could the three undertake to have the furniture unpacked and the house properly settled?
The hotel had been opened to receive guests, of course, but--

Texas Joe shook his head solemnly. "I pass, Abe. There ain't no use in my affirmin' that I
knows anything about such undertakings. Household furnishin' such as is proper in a case like
this is a long way off my range."

But the Irishman waxed indignant. "Sich ignorance as ye two do be showin' is heathenish," he
declared. "I suppose now ye wud be for puttin' the cook stove in the parlor an' settin' up
the piany in the young lady's budwar."

The strange word caught the attention of Texas instantly. "An' what might that be, pard?" he
drawled. "What's a budwar?"

Pat snorted. "Budwar, ye ignorant owld limb, is polite for the girl's bedroom, which in civilization
is not discussed by thim as has manners."

Such overwhelming evidence of the Irishman's familiarity with the best social customs was not
to be rejected. The morning stage carried a telegram to be sent from Deep Well to Jefferson
Worth, and all that day the three toiled under command of Pat. When the evening stage brought
a message from Mr. Worth saying that he and Barbara would arrive the following evening, they
decided that a night shift was necessary and worked until nearly morning, redoubling their
efforts the following day.

When the dusty old stage with its four half-broken horses pulled into Kingston that night,
three tired and anxious, but joyful, desert men occupied the front rank of the waiting crowd
before the new hotel.

With all the grace of generous curves and ponderous dignity, Horace P. Blanton was first to
alight. When he turned his broad back to the "common herd" and, with an indescribable air of
proprietorship, assisted Miss Worth to the ground, three darkened faces scowled with disapproval
and three smothered oaths expressed deep disgust.

The excited citizens behind the three crowded closer. Even Ynez, climbing down from the stage,
was received with another cheer by the delighted men. The irrepressible Horace P., quick to
recognize the spirit of the company and ever ready to do more than his part, burst into an
eloquent address of welcome in behalf of the entire population of The King's Basin. But the
ceremony was interrupted and the imposing personage in the white vest was thrust roughly aside
while Barbara, with glad eyes and hands outstretched, greeted the rude disturbers of the great
man's dignity.

"Texas! Pat! Mr. Lee! Oh, I'm glad! I have been hoping all day that you would be here to meet
me. It seemed to me that I would never get here. It has been the longest day of my life." Which,
considering that the impressive attentions of Horace P. Blanton had been continuous since the
moment when he had forced an introduction from Mr. Worth on the train that morning, was rather
hard on his majesty.

But much experience in similar situations had made Horace P. Blanton immune to such thrusts.
Even while Barbara was speaking he regained his place at her side. With his voice and manner
of a "personal conductor"--before either of the three could speak--he followed her words with:
"Ah, Miss Worth, I see you already know some of our men. Texas, Pat and Abe here are three
of the best fellows we have. They--"

Again he was interrupted. The young woman turned easily aside to Abe, and Horace P. found himself
very close to and facing the tall plainsman and the heavy shouldered Irish boss.

"Excuse me, Colonel," drawled Texas in tones so soft that no one in the noisy crowd could hear;
"but the welfare of the citizens of this here community, as well as the safety of the country,
demands your immediate presence up the street."

Without hesitation the lordly one exclaimed: "Ah, thank you, Tex. Miss Worth will excuse me
I'm sure. Please explain my absence to her." Then before their startled eyes he faded away--if
the vanishing of such a bulk can be so described.

A few minutes after the passing of Horace P. Blanton, Tex and Pat also disappeared, for it
was part of the carefully arranged plot that Barbara's "uncles" were to see to the disposal
of the girl's trunks while she was at supper at the hotel with her father and Abe.

At the table Barbara was all eagerness in her desire to know everything about the work; and
the surveyor, in answering her questions, found himself drawn out of the dumbness that usually
beset him in such situations.

"And our house?" asked the girl. "When can I begin settling? You see I brought Ynez with me.
Can we begin in the morning, Abe? And could you spare Pat and Tex to help us?"

Abe glanced at his employer. "If you would like to see the house we can look at it this evening
after supper."

"Can we? Can we go, daddy?"

Jefferson Worth met Abe's look with a twinkle in the corner of his eye, but he only answered
his eager daughter with a calm, "If you like."

They found the house with every window brilliantly lighted, and on the front porch, on opposite
sides of the wide-open door, Texas and Pat standing to welcome them. From one room to another
Barbara ran in laughing delight, followed by the three, who were perspiring in an agony of
suspense while Jefferson Worth looked on. The cook stove was not in the parlor, nor was the
piano--out of place. In the proper room Barbara even found her trunks. There was a supply of
provisions in the pantry and kindlings even ready by the kitchen stove for the morning fire.
If there were little irregularities here and there, Barbara, with graceful tact, did not see
them but, to the delight of the three men, declared again and again that no woman could have
done it better.

The climax came when she said that unless her father insisted she would not even return to
the hotel that evening. Could not someone go for the hand luggage and Ynez? Breathless the
three waited, and when Mr. Worth said he saw no reason why they should leave their own home
for a hotel Tex and Pat could hold themselves no longer but made a wild run for the door.

When Barbara's "uncles" had returned with the Indian woman and the grips, Pat stood in the
center of the living room and looked curiously about, an expression of wonder upon his battle-scarred
Irish countenance. "Now don't that bate the divil! Tell me"--he faced the girl with mock severity--"fwhat's
this ye've been doin' already?"

"Doing?" exclaimed Barbara, "I haven't been doing anything, Uncle Pat."

"Aw, go on, don't be tellin' me that. Aven Uncle Tex here can see that ye've changed ivery
blissid thing in the place. 'Tis not the same, at all, an' afther us a-workin' our fingers
to the bone to fix ut up. 'Tis quare. I know now that Tex hung that curtain there. Ye could
have heard him swearin' a mile away, but ut's not that same curtain at all, at all. 'Tis mighty
quare."

For an hour or more Barbara, at the piano, sang for them the simple songs they loved, while
many a tired horseman, riding past on his way to his lonely desert shack or to some rough camp
on the works, paused to listen to the sweet voice and to dream perhaps of the time that was
to come when such sounds would no longer seem strange on the Desert.

When the hour came for Texas and Pat and Abe to go, and Barbara with shining eyes tried again
to express her gratitude while insisting that they must always come to her home as to their
own, the three felt that indeed they had their reward. And when later the girl kissed her father
good night Jefferson Worth also knew in his lonely heart that he had done well.

CHAPTER XV.

BARBARA COMES INTO HER OWN.

Jefferson Worth and his daughter had just finished their first breakfast in the new home when
their Indian servant woman entered the room.

"What is it, Ynez?" asked Barbara, seeing that the woman wished to speak.

Ynez's black eyes were shining and her voice was eager as she answered: "There is someone without
waiting for La Senorita."

"Someone waiting outside for me, Ynez?"

"Who is it?" asked Mr. Worth.

"It is Pablo Garcia, Senor, and he say please ask La Senorita to come. If La Senorita will
go only to the door she can see."

With an expression of excited interest Barbara, followed by her father, went out on the porch.
In front of the house stood Pablo holding a beautiful saddle horse fully equipped and ready
for a rider. The Mexican's dark face shone with the pride and triumph of the moment toward
which he had looked forward for months. The horse, too, as if sensing the importance of the
occasion, pawed the earth with his dainty hoofs, arched his neck and tossed his head--proudly
impatient.

Uttering low exclamations and little cries of delight the girl left the porch and ran forward,
greeting Pablo and moving about the horse, admiring the animal from every point of view. "What
a beauty! He is perfect, Pablo; perfect! Where did you find him? Is he yours? What's his name?"
Her questions came tumbling from her lips in such eager bursts that Pablo answered only the last.

"He is yours, Senorita. His name El Capitan."

"Mine?" Barbara turned to her father, who explained, Abe having told him the night before of
the purchase.

When her father finished, the delighted girl announced that she "simply couldn't wait" but
must go for a ride immediately. Running into the house she returned a few minutes later in
her riding dress and, mounting with--"I'll be back for dinner, daddy," and "Adios, Pablo!"--rode
away toward the open country, while the Mexican and the banker watched her out of sight.

By the time they had passed the last of the tent houses in the town Barbara and El Capitan
were friends. There is no doubt whatever that a worthy horse appreciates a worthy rider and
the girl, accustomed to riding since childhood, certainly appreciated her mount.

"Oh, you beauty!" she cried, leaning forward in the saddle to pat the shining neck. "Oh, you
beauty!"

As though to return the compliment and express his pleasure at finding such an agreeable companion,
El Capitan turned his delicate pointed ears forward, arched his neck, and, stepping as on a
velvet carpet, sprang lightly to the other side of the road in sheer overflow of good spirits
and confidence in his rider, while the girl, at his play, laughed aloud.

But Barbara had eyes and thoughts for more than her horse that morning. It was her first day
in "her Desert" and there was much for her to see. Through her father she had kept in close
touch with every phase of the work of reclaiming The King's Basin and had often begged him
to take her with him into the new country. Now at last her wish was realized. She was where
she could see with her own eyes the Seer's dream--the Seer's and her own--coming true.

On either hand as she rode, stretching away until all fixed lines and objects were lost in
the shifting mirage and many-colored lights of the desert, the dun plain with its thin growth
of thirsty vegetation was broken by the green cultivated fields, newly leveled acres, buildings
and stacks of the ranches, with canals, ditches and ponds filled with water that reflected
the colors of the morning. Everywhere, in what had been a land of death, life was stirring.
In one field beside the road a herd of soft-eyed cattle, knee-deep in rich alfalfa, lifted
their heads to greet her. In another a band of horses and colts scampered along with her as
far as their fence would permit, as if good-naturedly seeking her further acquaintance. Everywhere
men with their teams were at work in the fields newly won from the desert. At one house a woman
was hanging her weekly wash on the line, while a group of children played in the yard. As the
girl passed the woman waved her hand and the children shouted a greeting. And a little farther
on a meadow-lark, perched on a fence-post, filled the world with liquid music.

The wine-like atmosphere, the glorious light, the odor of the fields and the strength and beauty
of the life new-born in the desert, with the spirit and freedom of the animal she rode, all
appealed with almost painful intensity to the girl who was herself so richly alive. She felt
her close kinship with it all and answered to it all out of the fullness of her own young woman's
strength. She wanted to cry aloud with the joy and gladness of the victory over barrenness
and desolation. It was her Desert that was yielding itself to the strong ones; for them it
had waited--waited through the ages, and at last they had come.

Busy with her thoughts, Barbara rode on until she had passed out of the settled district of
which Kingston was the center and found herself in the desert. Save for the lightly marked
trail she was following and the thin line of her father's telephone poles that led southward
to Frontera, she saw no sign of a human being. Checking her horse and turning, she looked back.
A tiny spot of thin color-- the red of brick, the yellow of new lumber and the white of tents--
marked Kingston. The ranches about the desert town were scattered spots of green scarcely seen
at that distance. All the rest, from the distant snow-capped sentinels of the Pass in the north
to Lone Mountain in the south and from the purple mountain wall on the west to the sky-line
of the Mesa on the east, was the same dun plain as she had always known it.

Barbara caught her breath. Seen near at hand the work accomplished had seemed so great, so
brave; seen from even so short a distance as she had come, it looked so pitifully small, so
helpless. The desert was so huge, so masterful, so dominating in its silent grandeur, in its
awful loneliness. All her life Barbara had seen the desert from her home in Rubio City. Many,
many times she had ridden into it and back a day's ride. But never had she felt the dreadful
spirit of the land as she felt it now, alone in the still, lonely heart of it. She was afraid
with an unreasoning fear.

El Capitan, too, seemed to share her uneasiness. Tossing his head, tugging at the bridle reins
and pawing the ground and starting nervously, he turned this way and that, signifying his desire
to be away. But just as Barbara, on the point of yielding to his impatience and her own feeling
of fear, lifted the reins to turn toward Kingston again, he threw up his head with a loud neigh
and with ears pointed looked away toward the south, standing rigid and motionless as a horse
of stone. A cloud of dust rising from the trail told her that someone was approaching. Instantly
the girl's feeling of fear vanished.