There can be no doubt that there is a general desire in the country,--- I do not deny the existence
of it, for it is stated in all the addresses and all the petitions on the subject;--that there
is a general desire in the country that some Reform in Parliament should be taken into consideration,
to do away with the abuses in the system of elections of Members of the House of Commons. Without
enquiring into the cause, if the fact be as I have stated, which I believe no one will dispute,
it is the duty of Parliament to proceed steadily and gradually in making amendments in the
representation. We should consider maturely every step that we took,--we should not proceed
all at once to do every thing, we should go on gradually and deliberately; and thus in process
of time, we might arrive even at the measure which has been recommended by the noble Earl at
the head of his Majesty's government; but this must be in process of time. After a considerable
length of time had elapsed, and after we had maturely considered every step that we had taken,
it would be only after we had done all that, that we could adopt a measure to the extent of
that recommended by the noble Earl. This we must do, if we desire to maintain the venerable
monarchy under which the country has flourished for so long a time. The effect of this measure,
if carried now, will be to establish such a government as exists elsewhere, (in France) which
the noble Earl has described as a government which no man could think fit for the administration
of affairs in this country.

April 10,1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Effect of Agitation on Business.

I believe that as soon as this Bill was proposed, and as soon as the excitement which it occasioned
was apparent, all expenditure of all descriptions ceased,--men ceased to lay out money in great
enterprises--and those who expended their incomes to the full amount, began to consider whether
it was not expedient to make provision for a future day, for a period of trouble and difficulty,
which might be anticipated from these changes. It is to these circumstances that I am induced
to attribute the want of commerce and trade in the country. If your Lordships look to the situation
of our neighbours it will appear that the same causes have produced precisely the same effects,
and that these causes have proceeded further amongst them, than they have with us, because
they have existed for a longer period of time. Among them popular delirium has been carried
nearly to its full extent; among us it has only begun. I particularly complain of the system
of agitation which now prevails in England, for this reason, that it falls upon the poorest
and lowest classes of the community. The expenditure of the rich gives comfort and ease to
the middle classes, but it gives subsistence to the poor; and it is for want of this subsistence
and comfort for the lower classes, that agitation has been carried to such an extent.

April 10, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Military Force will be required to Govern the Country if the Reform Bill is carried.

The noble Viscount, one of his Majesty's Secretaries of State, who spoke yesterday upon the
subject, admitted that he did not expect that the Reform measure would relieve any of the distresses
of the country. It certainly does appear most extraordinary, that a Minister, particularly
a Secretary of State, should say of a measure, which he is supporting himself, and which he
knows must have such extensive consequences as the measure now proposed, that he does not believe
that it will tend to relieve any of the existing distresses of the country. But I say not only
that it will not relieve any of the distresses of the country, but, on the contrary, that it
will deeply aggravate them. But let us go a little further, and see whether this system is
good; and whether the system of cheap government, which it is to introduce, is likely to produce
good to the country. And here, again, I would wish to call the attention of your Lordships
to what is passing in another country. If your Lordships will take the trouble of examining
what has passed in France in the course of the last two years, you will see that, during that
period, that country has expended 50,000,000 l. sterling beyond its usual expenditure. Its
ordinary Budget, notwithstanding every description of saving that could be made from the Civil
List, and in other establishments, which have been cut down as low as possible--still its ordinary
Budget exceeds the Budget of the former reign--the extravagant reign of the Bourbons--to the
amount of 10,000,000 l. sterling; and, including those laws for two years, there is the extraordinary
expenditure of 50,000,000 l. in that space of time. To say, then, that popular excitement tends
to cheap government, is monstrous and absurd, and it is impossible for any man who regards
these facts to arrive at that conclusion. We are called upon to adopt a system which is to
lead to these results. I ask, then, whether such a system can be more effectual in this country,
than that under which we have so long prospered? I ask, whether the Civil Government will have
more power--whether it is possible that the Government can be carried on with a smaller proportion
of the army? I beg your Lordships to observe the transactions which have occurred at Paris
within the last two years, and you will see that, while Louis XVIII, and Charles X. were able
to maintain the peace and tranquillity of the capital with a gendarmerie of from 500 to 1000
men,--since the period of the revolution of July, 1830, the Government has not had less than
60,000 once a month put into requisition to maintain the peace of the city. I say once a month,
upon an average, not to exaggerate the facts; being convinced that upon not less than twenty-four
occasions the army has been under arms.

If the system now proposed to your Lordships is adopted, will any man tell me that it will
be possible for any Government to be carried on, as the Government of this country has hitherto
been, by a civil power, aided by a small military force? In the course of this last summer,
events of a fearful character occurred, nearly at the same time, in this country and in France.
I allude to the disturbances at Bristol and at Lyons. The riots at Bristol were put down by
ninety men, as soon as an officer was found who would employ the force entrusted to him. But
what happened at Lyons--were the disturbances there so easily quelled? The events at Lyons--a
larger town, I admit, but not much larger than Bristol--required 40,000 troops to be brought
against the town, under the command of a Marshal of France, the present Minister-at-War, and
a Prince of the Blood, before tranquillity could be restored. I entreat, then, your Lordships
to consider well, first of all, the causes of this difference,--to see that it is the sovereignty
of the people that you are called upon to establish in this country,--and whether it is possible
to carry on the civil Government of England, as it has hitherto been, under such a Government
as you would establish, if you pass this Bill.

April 10,1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fiscal Regulations for the Extinction of Slavery not defensible.

I can hardly bring myself to believe that any Government can think of forcing the Colonies
to adopt Orders in Council, by holding out, at once, promises and threats; by saying that those
Colonies which adopted them should not pay taxes, and that those which did not adopt them should
continue to pay them. Did any man ever before hear of taxes being imposed, for any purpose
whatever, excepting to supply the necessities of the State? If taxes be necessary for the purposes
of the State, in the name of God let them be paid; but, if they be not necessary, they ought
not to be imposed at all, nor allowed to continue. Parliament is not justified in imposing
taxes for a specific purpose of punishment.

April 17, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

West India Property not to be Sacrificed to the Fancies of Abolitionists.

It is really desirable that this question should be well understood in this country. West Indian
property is as much entitled to protection as any other property which exists in Great Britain.
Petitions are sent up from all parts of England, praying for the immediate abolition of slavery;
and the execution of that measure is urged as a duty incumbent upon us. Those persons who take
a part in these proceedings, forget the enormous amount of property belonging to his Majesty's
subjects which is involved in the question; and it is necessary to bring back their attention
to the consequences which will result, not only to the colonists, but to the public, from the
annihilation of that property, by the prosecution of any of their fancies respecting the abolition
of slavery. In truth, it is absolutely impossible to derive any advantage from that property
except through the medium of slavery; and through slavery alone can the individuals interested
in the occupation of that property be sustained in life.

April 17, 1832.

Speech explaining the Negociations, in May, 1832, for the formation of a Tory Government on
the principle of Moderate Reform.

My Lords, I have the honour to present to your Lordships a petition from the inhabitant householders
of Cambridge against the Reform Bill; and, as this is the first time I have had occasion to
address your Lordships since I have been charged by his Majesty with a most important commission,
I conceive that your Lordships, or, at least, some of you, may be desirous that I should avail
myself of this, or some other early opportunity, to explain the nature and termination of the
transactions in which I have been engaged; and I confess, my Lords, that having been exposed
to extreme misrepresentation, and having been vilified in the most extraordinary manner, in
respect of these transactions, by persons in another place, who, with the exception of their
conduct in this instance, have some claim to be considered respectable, I am anxious to take
the first opportunity of stating to your Lordships, and the country, the nature of the transactions
in which I have been engaged, and the grounds on which I have proceeded. Your Lordships will
recollect, that in the course of the last week--I think it was on Wednesday--his Majesty's
ministers informed your Lordships that they had offered certain advice to his Majesty in reference
to the important subject of the Reform Bill; and, as his Majesty had not thought proper to
follow that advice, they had considered it their duty to tender their resignations to his Majesty,
and which resignations his Majesty was pleased to accept. His Majesty was graciously pleased,
on that day on which he was so left entirely alone by his ministers, to send for a noble friend
of mine--a noble and learned Lord (Eldon), who had held a high place, as well in the service
as in the confidence of his Majesty, to inquire whether, in his opinion, there were any means,
and if so, what means, of forming a Government for his Majesty on the principle of carrying
into execution an extensive reform in the representation of the people. Thus it appears that
when his Majesty had the misfortune of disagreeing with his servants, respecting the advice
which had been tendered to him, he happened to have had so little communication with other
men, and was so little acquainted with their opinions on public affairs, that he felt it necessary
to send for my noble and learned friend, who was out of the immediate line of politics, in
order to obtain his assistance, and to seek for information at his hands. My noble and learned
friend came to me, and informed me of the difficulty of his Majesty's situation, and I considered
it my duty to inquire from others what their opinions were, because, I confess to your Lordships,
I was equally unprepared with his Majesty for the consideration of such a question.

Upon inquiry, I found that a large number of friends of mine were not unwilling to give confidence
and support to a government formed upon such a principle, and with the positive view of resistance
to that advice which was tendered to his Majesty. Under these circumstances I waited on his
Majesty on Saturday, and submitted to him my advice. That advice was not to re-appoint his
late ministry, nor was it to appoint myself. I did not look to any objects of ambition. I advised
him to seek the assistance of other persons well qualified to fill the high situations in the
state, expressing myself willing to give his Majesty every assistance, whether in office or
out of office, to enable his Majesty to form an administration to resist the advice which had
been so given to him. My Lords, these were the first steps of the transaction; and if ever
there was an instance in which the Sovereign acted more honestly by his former servants--if
ever there was an instance in which public men kept themselves most completely apart from all
intrigues, and from all indirect influence--using only those direct and honourable means of
opposition, of which no man has reason to be other than proud, this is that instance. And when
I came to give my advice to his Majesty, instead of advising him with a view to objects of
personal ambition, as I have been accused of doing upon high authority,--I gave that advice
which I thought would best lead to another arrangement, and I stated that I was ready to serve
his Majesty in any or in no capacity, so as best to assist him in carrying on a government
to resist the advice which had been given him by his late ministers. And here, my Lords, I
beg your Lordships to examine a little what was the nature of the advice which was tendered
by his Majesty's ministers to his Majesty, which his Majesty thought proper not to follow,
and which I considered it my bounden duty to enable his Majesty to resist. I do not ask any
man to seek any further explanation of this advice, than that which was given by the ministers
themselves. It was neither more nor less than this. The Government, feeling some difficulty
in carrying the Reform Bill through this House, were induced to advise his Majesty to do--what?--to
create a sufficient number of peers to enable them to carry their measure, to force it through
this House of Parliament. Now, my Lords, before I go further, let me beg you to consider what
is the nature of that proposition? Ministers found, in the course of last session, that there
was a large majority in this House against the principle of the bill. Now, my Lords, what is
the ordinary course for a minister, under such circumstances, to pursue? My Lords, it is to
alter the measure, to endeavour to make it more palatable to that branch of the legislature
which was opposed to it. Such is the usual course; but, in this case, the minister says "no.
I will next session bring in a bill as efficient as that which has been rejected." And what
did he do? My Lords, I have no hesitation in saying that, notwithstanding the opposition of
this House, he brought in a measure stronger and worse than any of the measures before introduced;
and this measure he wishes to force upon the House by a large creation of peers. How many peers,
it is not necessary to state--it has not even been stated, by the noble Lords opposite: it
is enough to say, a sufficient number to force the Reform Bill through the House. It is only
necessary for me to state the proposition. If this be a legal and constitutional course of
conduct--if such projects can be carried into execution by a minister of the crown with impunity--there
is no doubt that the constitution of this House and of this country is at an end. I ask, my
Lords, is there any body blind enough not to see that if a minister can, with impunity, advise
his Sovereign to such an unconstitutional exercise of his prerogative as to thereby decide
all questions in this House, there is absolutely an end put to the power and objects of deliberation
in this House--an end to all means of decision; I say, then, my Lords, thinking as I do, it
was my duty to counsel his Majesty to resist the following of this advice; and, my Lords, my
opinion is that the threat of carrying this measure of creation into execution, if it should
have the effect of inducing noble Lords to absent themselves from the House, or to adopt any
particular line of conduct, is just as bad as its execution; for, my Lords, it does by violence
force a decision on this House--and on a subject, my Lords, on which this House is not disposed
to give such a decision. It is true, my Lords, men may be led to adopt such a course, by reflecting,
that if they do not adopt it, some 50 or 100 peers will be introduced, and thus deliberation
and decision in this House be rendered impracticable; or men may be led to adopt it with the
view of saving the Sovereign from the indignity of having so gross an alternative imposed upon
him. But I say, my Lords, that the effect of any body of men agreeing publicly to such a course,
will be to make themselves parties to this very proceeding, of which I say, we have so much
reason to complain. The only course of proceeding at this eventful crisis, worthy of the men
with whom I have the honour to be connected, was to advise his Majesty--was to counsel his
Majesty--to resist the advice which had been given him, if he could find means of carrying
on the government of the country without acceding to it. But this part of the transaction,
my Lords, requires particular explanation upon my part--his Majesty insisted that some "extensive
measure of reform" (I use his own words) "in the representation of the people" should be carried.
I always was of opinion, and am still of opinion, that the measure of reform is unnecessary,
and will prove most injurious to the country. But on the last occasion when I addressed your
Lordships,--in the committee on Monday se'nnight,--I stated my intention to endeavour to amend
the bill in committee, and to do it honestly and fairly. Still, however, I thought that, amend
it as we might in committee, it was not a measure which would enable the country to have a
government capable of encountering the critical circumstances and serious difficulties to which
every man must expect this country to be exposed. This was, my Lords,--this is, my opinion.
I do not think that, under the influence of this measure, it is possible that any government
can expect to overcome the dangers to which this country must be exposed. But my Lords, this
was not the question before me; I was called on to assist my Sovereign in resisting a measure
which would lead to the immediate overthrow of one branch of the legislature--a measure which
would enable the ministry to carry through this house the whole bill unmodified, unimproved,
and unmitigated. I had then, my Lords, only the choice of adopting such part of that bill as
this house might please to send down to the House of Commons, suffering the government hereafter
to depend upon the operation of that part of the bill rather than upon the whole bill, or else
of suffering the whole bill to be carried, and the House of Lords to be destroyed. My Lords,
my opinion is not altered; no part of the bill is safe; but undoubtedly, a part of the bill
is better, that is to say, less injurious, than the whole bill; and, certainly, it must at
least be admitted that it is better than the destruction of the constitution of the country
by the destruction of the independence of this house. Under these circumstances, my Lords,
I gave my consent to assist his Majesty in forming a new government. I know many may be of
opinion that I should have acted a more prudent part if I had looked to anterior circumstances,
and if I had regarded the opinions and pledges I had given, and if, placing my attention exclusively
upon the desire of acting a consistent part in public life, I had pursued a different course,
and refused my assistance to his Majesty, I should have done better and more wisely.

I do not mean to detract from the merits of those who thought proper to pursue a course contrary
to mine upon the occasion. I am grieved that it should have been my misfortune to differ with
some right honourable friends of mine, with whom I have been for many years in habits of cordial
union, co-operation, and friendship, and from whom I hope this momentary separation will not
dissever me. Nay, my lords, their position was different from mine. I was situated in a position
very different from that in which they felt themselves to stand. They regretted that they could
not take the same course with me; but for myself, my Lords, I cannot help feeling that, if
I had been capable of refusing my assistance to his Majesty--if I had been capable of saying
to his Majesty, "I cannot assist you in this affair, because I have, in my place in parliament,
expressed strong opinions against a measure to which your Majesty is friendly," I do not think
I could have shewn my face in the streets for shame of having done it--for shame of having
abandoned my Sovereign under such distressing circumstances. I have, indeed, the misfortune
of differing from many noble Lords, but I cannot regret the steps I have taken. If I have made
a mistake, I regret it; but I am not aware that I have made any mistake. It was impossible
that I could shrink from his Majesty in the distressing circumstances under which he was placed.
I will not detain your Lordships longer with a detail of the circumstances which led to the
dilemma in which we are now placed. But, my Lords, if you will only look back to the commencement
of those transactions--if you look to the speech which his Majesty made from the throne to
this and the other house of Parliament, in June 1831,--if you recollect that his Majesty stated,
in very strong terms, that that important question should receive the earliest and most attentive
consideration, saying, "--Having had recourse to that measure for the purpose of ascertaining
the sense of my people on the expediency of a reform in the representation, I have now to recommend
that important question to your earliest and most attentive consideration, confident that,
in any measure which you may propose for its adjustment, you will carefully adhere to the acknowledged
principles of the constitution, by which the prerogatives of the Crown, the authority of both
Houses of Parliament, and the rights and liberties of the people, are equally secured."

Now, my Lords, I ask, could it be believed, at the time his Majesty made this speech, that
the rights of this house--the power of deliberating and deciding independently upon such a
question as this--would be destroyed by a creation of Peers, and by a creation to an extent
which could not be much less than one hundred? If any man at the time foretold this, it would
have been said he was dreaming of things that were impossible. But to this state, my Lords,
have we been brought by this measure. When I first heard of this bill being proposed to be
carried by a creation of Peers, I said it was absolutely impossible. I could not believe that
any minister of England would be led by any considerations whatsoever to recommend such a measure
to his Majesty. The first time, indeed, I heard the matter mentioned with any degree of authority,
was when a Right Rev. Prelate thought proper to write upon the subject to some people in a
town in the county of Sussex. I could appeal to those sitting near me if this be not the fact--if
I did not uniformly declare that the thing was impossible--that the very idea of it ought not
to be mentioned. That it should never be imagined that any minister could be found who would
recommend such an unconstitutional--such a ruinous--such an unjust exercise of the prerogative
of the crown; for, my Lords, I do maintain that the just exercise of the prerogative of the
Crown does by no means go to the extent of enabling his Majesty to create a body of Peers with
the view to carry any particular measure. Under the circumstances, then, I think your Lordships
will not think it unnatural, when I consider his Majesty's situation, that I should endeavour
to assist his Majesty to avoid the adoption of such a recommendation. But, my Lords, when I
found that in consequence of the discussions on Monday in another place,--which by the way
proved so clearly what the sentiments of the leading men then were, that Peers should not be
created for such a purpose:--when I found from these discussions that it was impossible to
form a government from that house, of such a nature as would secure the confidence of the country,
I felt it my duty to inform his Majesty that I could not fulfil the commission with which he
was pleased to honour me, and his Majesty informed me that he would renew his communications
with his former ministry.

May 17, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The state of Ireland under Lord Grey, a Conspiracy against Law and Government.

The noble Lords at the head of the Irish government have a most particular objection to these
extraordinary measures, adopted to enable the government to afford protection to the lives
and property of his Majesty's subjects. If I do not mistake--and I am sure that I am in the
recollection of many noble Lords present--I myself reminded the noble Earl that the association
act would terminate at the end of the session of Parliament of 1831; and the answer of the
noble Earl was, that it was intended to bring in a bill to continue that act. My Lords, Parliament
was dissolved unfortunately, and the association act was not only not continued, but the convictions
which had already taken place under it were not carried into execution.

It might naturally be supposed that, when the Lord Lieutenant found that he could not give
protection to his Majesty's subjects even when he had the association act, it would, at least,
have been continued. No such thing. When Parliament reassembled, the question was again put
by one of the noble Lords near me, whether it was intended to propose a renewal of that act;
and the answer was, that the noble Lord at the head of the Irish government thought that he
would tranquillize the country without having recourse to extraordinary measures. From that
day to this there has been no security to property--no security for person; there has been
no enjoyment of peace or tranquillity in Ireland. That is the state in which it has continued
from that time to the present. Now, my noble friend stated most truly that this is the result
of a conspiracy; I say the same; and before I sit down, I will prove that it is a conspiracy,
and nothing but a conspiracy, which tends to deprive a large class of his Majesty's subjects
of their property,--which renders their lives insecure,--a conspiracy which tends to the overthrow
of all government, if they do not adopt some measure to put it down. On this ground alone I
address your Lordships; I wish to warn the people and the government of the real nature of
that which exists in that part of the United Kingdom. We have heard of an attempt, which was
lately made by a clergyman, to avail himself of a sale under a distress, for the purpose of
obtaining payment of a part of what was his due. A body of troops were assembled, by direction
of the magistrates, for the purpose of protecting the sale. It appears, from an account of
a nature usually tolerably accurate, that, on the first day appointed for the sale, an assemblage
of 20,000 people collected together; on the second day the number was 50,000; and on the third
it amounted to 100,000. I will take an unit from each of these numbers, and even then I defy
any man to shew me how that body could have been assembled but by a conspiracy. Who led them
there? My Lords, the Priests. I have seen a letter from an officer who commanded one of the
bodies of troops employed on the occasion, in which such is stated to be the fact.

When, my Lords, I know that that conspiracy exists, and that it goes to prevent a large proportion
of his Majesty's subjects from enjoying their property--when I know that the same conspiracy
may be applied to any other description of property--to any man's life, to his house, to his
honour, or to anything else that is most dear to man, I do say, it becomes the noble Earl at
the head of his Majesty's Government to adopt some measures, in order to do that which Government
can do, to get the better of that conspiracy. It must not be said that, under the British Constitution,
there is no power to prevent such a conspiracy: I say, there is a power, and that power resides
in Parliament, which can give the Government, under this best of all Constitutions, the means
which shall at the same time protect the property and the liberty of every individual in the
state. Yes, my Lords, Parliament possesses the power to bestow on the Government the means
of putting down this conspiracy--a conspiracy not against the Government itself, but against
those whom the Government is bound in honour to protect. I take this question of tithes to
be one of the most serious questions that can be brought under the consideration of Parliament.
I do not object to the noble Earl's measure--indeed, I really do not know what that measure
is--but what I say is, that the noble Earl is bound, and the King is bound by his oath, to
protect the property of the Church--yes, his Majesty is sworn especially to protect that property.
But it is not the property of the Church alone--what do you say of the lay impropriator? Is
a man to be robbed and ruined, because he possesses property in tithe?

There is no public grievance in Ireland. Tithes are no public grievance. Tithes are private
property, which a deep laid conspiracy is attempting to destroy. The noble Lord knows that
he cannot get the better of it. I tell the noble Lord that he will be, at last, obliged to
come to Parliament for a measure to enable him to put down the conspirators. I recollect the
famous affair at Manchester; and remember perfectly well to have heard a most able and eloquent
speech made by the noble and learned Lord in another place, upon the subject of collecting
large numbers of persons together; and I well remember his able and eloquent justification
of the magistrates for the part they assumed upon that occasion. I want to know why the magistrates
at Carlow and at Cork did not obtain the same support when pursuing a similar course? I know
I shall be told in answer to this, that I am a person very desirous of spilling blood. My Lords,
I am not recommending the spilling of blood; I want to save human life by Legislative means.
I do not want to have recourse to arms against crowds and mobs of people; but what I want is,
that the real conspirators should be got the better of, and not that the mere instruments and
victims of their wicked work should be punished. But if the course pursued at Manchester against
the collection of large bodies of armed people was correct--if the attack was rightly made
upon those armed people--I want to know why the same was not done at Cork and at Carlow, where
the troops stood in the midst of the people three days, who at last were suffered to carry
off the distress, without the clergyman being able to satisfy his claim?

The noble Lord has said, that Ireland is in a state of great tranquillity. Now, I certainly
must say, that as far as I have heard, I cannot believe in the existence of that tranquillity.
It may be perfectly true, by moving a large body of troops from the country into a particular
district, together with a great number of police and magistrates, that, for a moment, tranquillity
may be restored to that district; but there is no gentleman in the country feels himself in
a state of security. There is, however, one test, to which I wish to bring the noble Secretary
of State. I want to know this--has he, in any one case, carried into execution the provisions
of the Tithe Act? Is there a single instance of any tithe having been collected by Government
under that Act? If the clergy are to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and that Act is
not to be enforced, I must say that the noble Lord may make what boast he pleases as to the
state of Ireland; but there is no man who will believe one word about the tranquillity of Ireland,
until the noble Lord can produce evidence of the collection of some tithes under that Act.

What I want to see is, the affording of some security to property--some protection to life;
and that some assurance should be given to the peace of the country being established and preserved.

July 3, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Necessity of conciliating the Protestants of Ireland.

I come now, my Lords, to that part of the subject which is certainly very painful to me, because
I conceive it to be that in which I may say the Government has been much to blame; and that
is, their treatment of the Protestant Church of Ireland. My opinion is, that in the treatment
of that Church they have certainly thrown the Protestants of Ireland entirely aside. There
is no doubt whatever that the Protestants, who, like other classes of men, were more or less
divided amongst themselves, are now nearly unanimous in their opinions upon the subject of
the Government. They are nearly all of them, at the present moment, opposed to the Government--irritated
by a strong sense of the injury done to them, and the insecurity of their situation, which
is certainly most painful to everybody who wishes well to the union between the two countries.

July 3, 1832.

The Church should Educate the People.

We have the Established Church--we have the Established clergy; and the whole law of the country
is, that the clergy of the Established Church should have the charge of the education of the
people, particularly of Ireland. But, under the proposed system, the schoolmaster is simply
to teach the obligations which are due to society from every individual, and the pupil is not
to refer to divine authority for those obligations--he is not without permission to refer to
that alone which can render those obligations binding.

July 3,1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke of Wellington's Government opposed to the Appointment of Otho as King of Greece.

