As the vessel is to be used principally as a dispatch boat and for reconnoitering, and as--on
account of its great speed--it will not be obliged to come into conflict with larger and stronger
men-of-war, no great preparations for protection were needed, nor was it necessary that it
should be heavily armed, all available room being devoted to the engines, boilers, and the
storing of coal; these occupy more than half the length of the vessel, leaving only space enough
for the accommodation of the officers and crew at the ends. The armament consists of five Hotchkiss
revolving guns on each side, and a 4 in. gun at each end, the latter being so arranged that
each one can sweep half the horizon.

The keel was laid in August, 1885, and the ship was launched July 29, 1886, on which occasion
it was christened Greif. On the trial trip it was found that the slender shape of the vessel
adapted it for the development of a very high rate of speed under favorable conditions, when
it can make at least 22 knots an hour, so that the speed of 19 knots an hour guaranteed by
the builders can certainly be reached, even when traveling at a disadvantage. In spite of its
great length, the Greif can be easily maneuvered. When moving forward at full speed, it can
be made to describe a circle by proper manipulation of the rudder, and by turning one screw
forward and the other backward, the ship can be turned in a channel of its own length.

A large and rapid cruiser, also for the German navy, is being built by the corporation "Germania".
This vessel is of about the same length as the Greif, has more than double its displacement,
and will make 18 knots an hour, an unusual rate of speed for a vessel of its class. It will
be launched by the last of the summer or early in the fall.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWIN SCREW TORPEDO BOAT.

We give several illustrations of a sea going twin screw torpedo boat lately built for the Italian
government by Messrs. Yarrow & Co., of Poplar. The vessel in question is 140 ft. long by 14
ft. wide, and her displacement approaches close on 100 tons. The engines are of the compound
surface condensing type ordinarily fitted by this firm in their torpedo boats, excepting where
triple compounds are fitted. The general arrangement is shown by the sectional plan. As will
be noticed, there are two boilers, one before and the other aft of the engines, and either
boiler is arranged to supply either or both the engines. Yarrow's patent water tight ash pans
are fitted to each boiler, to prevent the fire being extinguished by a sudden influx of water
into the stokehold. There is an independent centrifugal pumping engine arranged to take its
suction from any compartment of the boat. There are also steam ejectors and hand pumps to each
compartment. These compartments are very numerous, as the space is much subdivided, both from
considerations of strength and safety. Bow and stern rudders are fitted, each having independent
steam steering gear, but both rudders can be worked in unison, or they can be immediately changed
to hand gear when necessary. The accommodation is very good for a vessel of this class. Officers'
and petty officers' cabins are aft, while the crew is berthed forward.

The armament consists of two bow tubes built in the boat. There are two turntables, as shown
in the illustrations, each fitted with two torpedo tubes. These, it will be noticed, are not
arranged parallel to each other, but lie at a small angle, so that if both torpedoes are ejected
at once, they will take a somewhat divergent course. Messrs. Yarrow have introduced this plan
in order to give a better chance for one of the torpedoes to hit the vessel attacked. There
are two quick firing three pounder guns on deck, and there is a powerful search light, the
dynamo and engine being placed in the galley compartment.

We believe, says Engineering, this torpedo boat, together with a sister vessel, built also
for the Italian government, are the fastest vessels of their class yet tried, and it is certain
that the British Navy does not yet possess a craft to equal them. It is an extraordinary and
lamentable fact that Great Britain, which claims to be the foremost naval power in the world,
has always been behind the times in the matter of torpedo boats.

The official trial of this boat was recently made in the Lower Hope in rough weather. The following
is a copy of the official record of the six runs on the measured mile:

    Boiler   | Receiver |         |Revolutions |       |       |Second
    Pressure.| Pressure.| Vacuum. | per Minute.| Speed.| Means.| Means.
-------------+----------+---------+------------+-------+-------+------
      |lb.   |     lb.  |    in.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME RECENT HIGH-SPEED TWIN SCREWS.

[Footnote: A paper recently read before the Institution of Naval Architects, London.]

By E.A. LINNINGTON.

One of the most interesting and valuable features in the development of naval construction
in recent years is the great advance which has been made in the speeds of our war ships. This
advance has been general, and not confined to any particular vessel or class of vessel. From
the first class armored fighting ship of about 10,000 tons displacement down to the comparatively
diminutive cruiser of 1,500 tons, the very desirable quality of a high speed has been provided.

These are all twin screw ships, and each of the twins is driven by its own set of engines and
line of shafting, so that the propelling machinery of each ship is duplicated throughout. The
speeds attained indicate a high efficiency with the twin screws. In all ships, but more especially
in high speed ships, success depends largely upon the provision of propellers suited for the
work they have to perform, and where a high propulsive efficiency has been secured, there is
no doubt the screws are working with a high efficiency. The principal purpose of this paper
is to record the particulars of the propellers, and the results of the trials of several of
these high speed twin screw ships. The table gives the leading particulars of several classes
of ships, the particulars of the screws, and the results obtained on the measured mile trials
from a ship of each class, except C. The vessels whose trials are inserted in the table have
not been selected as showing the highest speeds for the several classes. Excepting C, they
are the ships which have been run on the measured mile at or near the designed load water line.
On light draught trials, speeds have been attained from half a knot to a knot higher than those
here recorded. No ship of the class C has yet been officially tried on the measured mile, but
as several are in a forward state, perhaps the actual data from one of them may shortly be
obtained. All these measured mile trials were made under the usual Admiralty conditions, that
is to say, the ships' bottoms and the screws were clean, and the force of the wind and state
of the sea were not such as to make the trials useless for purposes of comparison. On such
trials the i.h.p. is obtained from diagrams taken while the ship is on the mile, and the revolutions
are recorded by ruechanical counters for the time occupied in running the mile. Not less than
four runs are made during a trial extending over several hours. The i.h.p. in the table is
not necessarily the maximum during the trial, for the average while on the mile is sometimes
a little below the average for the whole of the trial. The revolutions are the mean for the
two sets of engines, and the i.h.p. is the sum of the powers of the two sets. The pitch of
the screw is measured. The bolt holes in the blade flanges allow an adjustment of pitch, but
in each case the blades were set as nearly as possible at the pitch at which they were cast.
The particulars given in the table may be taken to be as reliable and accurate as such things
can be obtained, and for each ship there are corresponding data; that is, the powers, speeds,
displacements, revolutions, pitches, and other items existed at the same time. There are a
few points of detail about these propellers which deserve a passing notice. In Fig. 1 is shown
a fore and aft section through the boss. It will be observed that the flanges of the blades
are sunk into the boss, and that the bolts are sunk into the flanges. The recess for the bolt
heads is covered with a thin plate having the curve of the flange, so that the flanges and
the boss form a section of a sphere. This method of construction is a little more expensive
than exposed flanges and bolts, which, however, render the boss a huge churn. With the high
revolutions at which these screws work, a spherical boss is extremely desirable, but, of course,
the details need not be exactly as shown in the illustration. The conical tail is fitted to
prevent loss with eddies behind the flat end of the boss, and is particularly valuable with
the screws of high speed ships. The light hood shown on the stern bracket is for the purpose
of preventing eddies behind the boss of the stern bracket, and to save the resistance of the
flat face of the screw boss. The edges of the blades are cast sharp, instead of being rounded
at the back, with a small radius, as in the usual practice--the object of the sharp edge being
the diminution of the edge resistance. The driving key extends the whole length of the boss,
and the tapered shaft fits throughout its length.

These points of detail have been features of all Admiralty screws for some years.

The frictional resistance of screw propellers is always a fruitful source of inefficiency.
With a given screw, the loss due to friction may be taken to vary approximately as the square
of the speed. This is not to say that the frictional resistance is greater in proportion to
the thrust at high than at low speeds. The blades of screws for any speed should be as smooth
and clean as possible, but for high speed screws the absolute saving of friction may be considerable
with an improvement of the surface. There is no permanent advantage in polishing the blades.
No doubt there is some advantage for a little time, and, probably, better results may thereby
be secured on trial, but the blades soon become rough, and shell fish and weed appear to grow
as rapidly on recently polished blades as on an ordinary surface. These screws are of gun metal.
They were fitted to the ships in the condition in which they left the foundry. It appears that
within certain limits mere shape of blade does not affect the efficiency of the screw, but,
with a given number of blades and a given disk, the possible variations in the form or distribution
of a given area are such that different results may be realized. The shapes of the blades of
these propellers are shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 4. It will be seen the shapes are not exactly
the same for all the screws, but the differences do not call for much remark.

