We all three sat down cross-legged on the cushions, and our hostess related her symptoms to
Miss Banks. She had a bad cough, and seemed glad to have her chest painted with iodine. She
was the daughter of her husband's cowman; and if, according to English ideas, somewhat below
him in rank, was no worse educated than the first lady in the land. It is odd that, while Moors
are gentlemen born, their woman-kind, narrowed and degraded, are in no sense aristocratic.
They will stand upstairs and shout "Come!" to any one who is calling upon them and waiting
below. "Sit down," they will say imperatively: it is always the imperative. If they are asked
to show anything, they will bring it and almost throw it at the visitor's head. They have no
"breeding."

Our hostess was thin, and not at all typical of a Moorish wife; for a Moor likes a waist which
he can barely clasp with both arms, and women, when they desire to attract, fatten themselves
at once. A woman who is engaged, is crammed with sweet fattening pills and farinaceous food.

At one end of the room we sat in, was a gorgeous four-poster bed, hung with scarlet, and covered
with embroideries, the posts painted bright green, and a great gilt crown on the top of all.
When no furniture is bought except divans and a bed, all the dollars can be piled on the bed.
We left a bottle of mixture out of the basket and a doll for the only child, which would be
treasured, for a bunch of rags is the nearest Moorish approach to a doll.

From this house we went on to our hostess' old home, where her father, the cowman, lived. The
patio there was cold and bare, and seemed the general living-room; some wood was stacked in
one corner; there was a well in another; there was an overpowering smell of "drains" everywhere;
while in the third corner a poor, miserable little girl sat huddled up, with frightened eyes.
Several families lived together in this small house, and no fewer than six women crowded round
the girl to explain her symptoms to Miss Banks. It was only too apparent what was wrong, when
she uncovered her neck. Syphilis, hereditary--a terrible evil, to be found all over Morocco,
the result of Mohammedan customs and bad food. Considering that women are divorced and remarried
over and over again, and that the conditions under which they live are so unhealthy, it is
small wonder if disease in some form or other does not show itself. Examples are to be met
with in almost any street--the features of the face obliterated, and so on.

The poor child, whom Miss Banks was treating, had been married. Now that this disease had broken
out, her husband would probably divorce her. If she were cured, she might marry again. Her
friends had brought her all the way from Shesaw[=a]n to Tetuan to be cured, and a Jew doctor
had offered to put her right for the sum of £4.

"But," said her friends, "suppose she dies? What shall we get for our money then?"

So they sent to the English tabiba, who cures for nothing.

Miss Banks left ointment and medicine. Cases can be cured if the patient will persevere long
enough with the medicine; but many of them are too far gone when they first come.

An old man upstairs in the same house, but of a different family, claimed her attention next.
Three weeks ago he was perfectly well. He went to a café one evening, drank a cup of coffee,
came home, was seized with pain, and became completely paralyzed. It pointed to poison, but
he had no enemies.

Mercury is very largely used as a poison, and is given in different forms. Little is thought
of ending life by this means, unless there happen to be influential relations who object to
their relatives being in this summary manner "put out of the way."

There is a girl now in Tetuan who keeps a shop. Her father and mother kept it before her, but
she said that they were both so old, had lived so long, and had had their day, that she felt
something must be done to secure her own turn, and that speedily. Therefore she gave them both
some poison. There was a funeral. She took over the shop.

Another woman was anxious to poison her husband because he was about to take a second wife.
She prepared him the dish with the poisoned pieces. Suddenly she saw her child run into the
house and join his father at the meal. Careless of betraying herself, she rushed to her Benjamin
with cries of alarm,--too late; he had eaten, and he succumbed that night. The husband died
at the end of a year from the effects of the same poison. Some of the drugs which Moors use
take even longer to destroy life, but it is only a matter of time. The woman was put in prison,
but she came out after twelve months, and another man has taken her to wife.

Some missionary and poisoning experiences are amusing. People often came and asked for poison
to administer to somebody who happened to annoy them.

A slave appeared once and said, "I have a mistress: she's very old, isn't she?"

"Yes," said the missionary.

"She doesn't enjoy life now much, does she?"

"No, I don't think she does much."

"Would she enjoy being with the Lord much more than living on like this?"

"Yes," said the missionary, "she would be far happier with the Lord."

"Then," said the slave, "give me some poison to send her to Him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, Miss Banks looked at her patient, who might or might not have had his life tampered
with; but there was little she could do then. We left that house and walked on into the poorest
part of the city, down a little alley which was hard to find, in search of a certain door which
was still harder. After two or three mistakes, we hit upon the right one, and knocked at an
old, battered, rat-eaten entrance falling to pieces.

"Anna. Tabiba," called Miss Banks; and the door was opened by a countryman, a Riffi, rough-looking,
only a coarse jellab over him, but with a kind expression on his face. The space inside was
something like a chicken-pen. We stooped under a very low doorway in the farther wall, and
went into a little shed-like lean-to, where the inhabitants evidently lived entirely. A boy
of thirteen was lying on the ground, covered with a piece of sacking. The father squatted down
beside him. Two girls were grinding beans close to them in a hand-mill--the old mill of . .
. "the one shall be taken, and the other left."

Miss Banks and I seated ourselves on a wooden rail, which was part of a manger or a sheep-pen.
These Riffis had been forced by famine to abandon their home and come down into Tetuan, where
at first they had lived in a cave, on roots principally. The father would go out and hoe when
he could get work--every land-owner has hoeing to be done; but lately he had had fever. The
boy had an abscess, and could not move. In spite of it he smiled cheerfully, and was delighted
with a new red jellab which Miss Banks brought him. Poor little chap! he did not live to wear
it. I gave him a trifle to buy food. Beyond the dried beans in course of being ground, and
half a lemon, there was no sign of anything to eat. Beans and lemons to fight an abscess!

After Miss Banks had attended to the child, we took our way to the house of a Moorish doctor,
who had been unable to cure himself, and had sent in desperation for his European rival.

He was lying on a divan upstairs, himself the colour of oatmeal porridge, with his wife attending
to him; and he had a terrible sore on his thigh. This was duly attended to. The long fast of
Rámadhan might partly account for his state of health. In spite of his faith in Miss Banks,
which he would sooner have died than acknowledged, he had unbounded confidence in his own skill
as a doctor.

We asked him if he could read.

